-- Housing Bubbling Like 2008 on $4 Trillion Stimulus: Mortgages
-- B y   A n d r e w   B l a c k m a n ,   K e l v i n   W o n g   a n d   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2012-07-25T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/hong-kong-to-oslo-flirt-with-bubbles-on-cheap-cash-mortgages.html
Jean Liu’s plan to buy a  Hong Kong 
apartment was derailed by the 2008 global financial crisis. It
was an opportunity lost as prices surged instead of dropping as
they did in many of the world’s property markets, leaving the
32-year-old corporate banker still searching for an affordable
home four years later.  “I originally set my budget at HK$3 million,” or
$390,000, Liu said by telephone. “Now that’s barely enough for
a down payment.”  Liu’s plight is shared by homebuyers as far away as Canada,
Switzerland and Norway as a flood of money supplied by central
banks globally to prop up the financial system finds its way
into markets regarded as havens from economic turmoil and
Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, pushing down borrowing costs and
driving up home values. The U.S. Federal Reserve has held
 interest rates  near zero since 2008 to stimulate the world’s
largest economy, forcing faster growing economies such as Hong
Kong to adopt a loose monetary policy that fuels inflation.  “The Fed’s trying to save the day, yet it’s creating a lot
of distortions both at home and internationally,” Mickey Levy,
chief economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York, said by
phone. “The Fed is understating the magnitude of these
distortions,” such as rising real estate prices and low bond
yields, he said.  Investors in search of higher returns are moving into
appreciating real estate markets benefiting from strong
economies and stable governments not burdened by high levels of
debt.  Booming Markets  In Canada, where government bond yields this week fell to
the lowest level since 1950,  home prices  have climbed 34 percent
since January 2009 to an average of C$369,339 ($362,204),
according to the  Canadian Real Estate Association .  Switzerland is as close to a housing bubble as it’s been in
two decades, according to data compiled by UBS AG. Norwegian
homeowners, who’ve seen property prices surge almost 30 percent
since 2008, may face higher mortgage payments before the end of
the year as the country’s central bank seeks to deflate a
property bubble amid expectations that  household debt  will
surpass 200 percent of disposable incomes next year.  Hong Kong’s combination of record-low borrowing costs and a
shrinking supply of new buildings caused home values to jump
more than 80 percent since the start of 2009, according to the
Centa-City Leading Index. In the 12 months through March, prices
gained 5.4 percent, more than any other Asian market apart from
India, broker Knight Frank LLP estimates.  Pricy Apartments  A two-bedroom, 700-square-foot (65-square-meter) apartment
built in the last 25 years close to the Central business
district would cost about HK$8 million, according to Midland
Holdings Ltd., the city’s biggest publicly traded real estate
company. The typical down payment for homes of this value would
be 40 percent, or HK$3.2 million.  Hong Kong’s currency peg to the dollar robs the city of an
independent monetary policy, with official interest-rate moves
mirroring those of the  Federal Reserve . That’s making it harder
for Leung Chun-ying, Hong Kong’s recently selected chief
executive, to keep a lid on prices even as other Asian housing
markets have fallen from their peaks.  Property values around the world were inflated by cheap
credit at the end of the last decade, leading to housing bubbles
in countries from the U.S. to Ireland and Spain. The collapse of
those markets contributed to the 2008 financial crisis,
prompting central banks in the world’s biggest economies to cut
interest rates to record lows.  Economic Stimulus  Central banks in North America, Europe and Asia have spent
more than $4 trillion, equivalent to the gross domestic products
of the U.K., Australia and Singapore, on stimulus and asset
purchases.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing, while the  European Central Bank  has granted more than 1
trillion euros ($1.2 trillion) in three-year loans to banks and
the  Bank of England  has committed to 375 billion pounds ($582
billion) in bond purchases. On July 12, the  Bank of Japan 
bolstered its asset purchase fund by 5 trillion yen to 45
trillion yen ($575 billion).  Reduced borrowing costs have failed to revive many housing
markets. Property prices in about half of the countries included
in Knight Frank’s global house-price index, including  the U.S. ,
fell in the first quarter from a year earlier. U.K. values were
little changed while Ireland dropped 16 percent and Greece had a
9.8 percent decline.  Bright Spots  There were some bright spots. Luxury homes in London, New
York and San Francisco have all performed better than housing as
a whole as investors have competed for a limited number of
properties for sale in these financial and technology centers.  The flow of investment into markets seen as havens is
prompting governments to intervene to cap rising prices that are
punishing local buyers and threatening to create new bubbles.  Hong Kong’s Leung pledged to do more to boost public
housing when he took office on July 1. His predecessor,  Donald Tsang , tried to rein in prices by asking banks to raise the
minimum down payments for some properties and levying a higher
tax on homes bought and sold within two years.  Other Asian governments have been more successful at
slowing their real estate markets. Home values in Singapore
gained 2.7 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
compared with an increase of 4.6 percent in the fourth quarter.  Subsidized Loans  The country has been trying to damp demand since 2009, when
the government barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to subsidize loan
repayments on unfinished apartments.  China’s efforts to stem a surge in home prices is prompting
mainland Chinese to seek investments abroad. The government
increased down-payment requirements and  mortgage rates  for some
apartments and limited the number of homes a family is allowed
to buy. Prices surged 32 percent in the two years after the
government responded to the financial crisis with 4 trillion-
 yuan  ($628 billion) stimulus package in 2008.  Two interest-rate cuts and more favorable terms for first-
time buyers are again putting upward pressure on values in
China. New home prices increased for the first time in 10 months
in June, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s
biggest real estate website owner.  Competing Buyers  Hong Kong homebuyers like Liu are losing out as investors
from the rest of China push up prices. Buyers from the mainland
accounted for about 54 percent of new home sales by value in
Hong Kong in the third quarter of last year, according to
Midland Holdings. The share fell to 37 percent in the first
quarter, the Hong Kong-based broker said.  “I told myself to wait until the market pulls back, but it
never seems to,” said Liu, who’s now prepared to pay as much as
HK$4 million for a two-room apartment. “It’s been very
frustrating.”  Qiushi Zhang, a 25-year-old graduate from the  University of
Toronto , convinced his parents in the Chinese city of Wuhan to
purchase a two-bedroom condominium at Cityplace, a development
along Toronto’s waterfront.  “People have money in mainland China, but they don’t have
good investment options,” Zhang said by phone.  Canada is regarded by investors from China, Singapore and
India as a relatively stable and affordable place to seek
returns on real estate, said Debbie Cosic, a founder and partner
of In2ition Marketing Insights. The Mississauga, Ontario-based
brokerage markets new homes for developers.  Canada Shelter  Cosic said her firm saw strong demand for properties in
Toronto on a road show to Shanghai, Hong Kong and Singapore in
October. Individuals looking to build a residential-property
portfolio are increasingly viewing the Canadian city as an
alternative to London and New York, she said by phone.  “It’s a safe country. The banking system didn’t melt
down,” she said. “At the back of their minds they’re always
thinking: ‘If I need to get out or I need to move money, this is
my perfect way.”’  Canadian home prices advanced 6.8 percent in the first
quarter from a year earlier, Knight Frank estimates. That
compared with 6.3 percent increases in Norway and Switzerland.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  sees rising household
debt as posing the greatest threat to the country’s financial
stability, after the country’s banks lowered mortgage rates this
year to a record low.  Constant Rates  Carney has kept the central bank’s benchmark lending rate
at 1 percent since September 2010, the longest period without a
change since the 1950s. The central bank began lowering the rate
in 2008 to shield the economy from the financial crisis.  The ratio of household debt to disposable income reached
about 154 percent in the first quarter, higher than the U.S.
figure of 141 percent.  In Europe, homebuyers in Switzerland and Norway are paying
the price for having two of the region’s most stable, prosperous
economies as a spreading sovereign-debt crisis on the continent
fuels cross-border investment.  The  Swiss National Bank  imposed a ceiling of 1.20 Swiss
francs to the euro in September, while the Norwegian krone has
gained 25 percent against the single currency since January
2009. The need to prevent their currencies from rising even
more, combined with cuts by the European Central Bank, has
prevented Switzerland and Norway from tightening monetary policy
to avert a property bubble.  Franc’s Ceiling  The SNB’s decision to impose a ceiling on the franc, as
demand for the currency surged, has made the Swiss  property
market  more attractive for foreign investors seeking a haven for
their money. At the same time, the euro’s weakness has
discouraged people living in Switzerland from buying assets in
other parts of the region.  “Investors are willing to overpay because they have no
other choice,” said Thomas Veraguth, an economist at UBS in
Zurich.  The SNB has held interest rates at zero since August 2011,
pushing rates on 10-year fixed mortgages to an all-time low of
1.9 percent and those on five-year loans to an unprecedented 1.2
percent.  In Geneva, the Swiss city with the biggest concentration of
private banks, the average price of a new apartment has jumped
about 47 percent to 1.66 million francs ($1.68 million) in the
last five years, said Fredy Hasenmaile, head of real-estate
analysis at Credit Suisse Group AG in Zurich.  The quarterly UBS Swiss Real Estate Bubble Index has
probably entered “risk” territory for the first time since
December 1987, Matthias Holzhey, who created the measure, said
by phone.  Reducing Risks  “Swiss homes were already much more expensive than those
of other countries,” said Robert Ferfecki, a Zurich-based real
estate broker. “The price you paid for a house in Germany
wasn’t enough to buy a garage in Switzerland’s best locations.”  Switzerland’s government last month announced measures to
reduce mortgage-lending risks, including rules that will give it
the discretion to raise  capital requirements  for all banks by as
much as 2.5 percent of risk-weighted assets to counter “excess
credit growth.”  “The risks we are facing are gigantic,” said Donato Scognamiglio, professor of real estate finance at the University
of Bern. “If interest rates start to rise or the economy slows
down, we will see a good portion of people struggling with their
mortgages.”  Norwegian Homeowners  In Norway, homeowners may face higher mortgage payments
before the end of the year as the central bank seeks to cool the
overheating economy, which benefits from the nation’s oil
wealth. Property values in the world’s third-richest country per
capita have climbed by almost 30 percent since 2008 as
homebuyers benefit from rising wages and Europe’s lowest
unemployment rate. The average price doubled since 2000 to about
2.98 million kroner ($490,000), according to the Norwegian
Association of Real Estate Agents.  Central Bank Governor Oeystein Olsen, who in March cut
rates to halt gains in the krone, signaled last month that he
may start to raise borrowing costs as early as December. The
currency’s appreciation is a natural outcome of Norway’s
divergence from Europe’s crisis-tainted outlook, he said.  Like Switzerland, the Nordic country isn’t a member of the
European Union and has avoided fallout from the sovereign-debt
crisis. Even so, household debt will rise to more than double
the level of disposable incomes next year, the central bank
estimates. The average amount of private debt reached about 150
percent of incomes in the late 1980s, triggering a slump of
about 40 percent in  house prices , according to the Norwegian
financial regulator FSA.  “Time and again, housing markets around the world have
proved themselves to be extremely cyclical,” said Jon Bell, an
analyst at Shore Capital Group Ltd. “If history repeats itself,
there could be a bloodbath in Norway.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Andrew Blackman  in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net ;
Larry Edelman at   ledelman3@bloomberg.net . 