-- Hong Kong Allows Non-Residents to Buy Yuan Offshore
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-07-25T10:02:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/hong-kong-allows-non-residents-to-buy-yuan-offshore-2-.html
Hong Kong  allowed non-residents to
purchase an unlimited amount of  yuan , seeking to defend its
position as the global hub for international trade and finance
in the currency.  While conversion at the offshore rate will start Aug. 1,
the buyers will need to seek permission to send the currency
into  China , Hong Kong Monetary Authority Deputy Chief Executive
Eddie Yue told a news conference today. The 20,000 yuan ($3,130)
daily conversion quota on the city’s permanent residents at the
onshore rate will be kept unchanged and a maximum of 80,000 yuan
can be sent into the mainland every day, he said.  Hong Kong’s biggest banks have been lobbying China to relax
restrictions on the city’s yuan business as competition from
 London  and Singapore intensifies. The halt in the yuan’s
appreciation against the  U.S. dollar  this year has damped
appetite among residents for assets denominated in the Chinese
currency, with the city’s  yuan deposits  dropping 35 billion yuan
in the first five months to 554 billion yuan.  “This will raise Hong Kong’s edge in the competition with
other financial centers,” Ngan Kim-man, head of the  renminbi 
business strategy & planning department of  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11) ,
said by phone today. “If there are further relaxations from
China, Hong Kong can embrace these new opportunities like other
financial centers.”  Yuan Conversion  The People’s Bank of China has already ruled out the
possibility of raising yuan conversion quotas for Hong Kong
residents, according to the Chinese central bank’s Deputy
Governor Hu Xiaolian on June 30. Allowing non-residents to buy
yuan is feasible “as long as it doesn’t involve the onshore
yuan,” Hu said, adding progress could be made “in the
foreseeable future.”  While Hong Kong was selected as the nation’s major offshore
yuan trading hub under the 12th five-year plan, its status is
being challenged. U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George
Osborne  in January called on London to expand its yuan trading.
The British capital had 109 billion yuan of customer and
interbank deposits and that is “growing strongly,” according
to an April 18 report by research firm Bourse Consult.  Singapore’s stock exchange plans to start listing
securities denominated in the Chinese currency, according to a
statement on July 6.  “The HKMA will continue to study further expansion in the
offshore yuan business with local banks and the authorities in
China,” the central bank’s Yue said. “We hope today’s move can
help banks to widen their customer base and strengthen their
competitiveness.”  Dim Sum  The yuan in Hong Kong had been trading at a premium to the
 Shanghai  spot rate since the offshore market started in 2010. In
September 2011, it turned into a discount as investors in  Europe 
and the U.S. divested emerging-market assets. The yuan in Hong
Kong traded at a record 1.9 percent discount to the onshore rate
on Sept. 23.  The discount has since diminished as the spot rate in
Shanghai weakened on slowing Chinese economic growth. The
currency slipped 0.04 percent to 6.3895 per dollar as of 5:58
p.m. in Hong Kong, compared with the 6.3885 closing price in
Shanghai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales of so-called Dim Sum bonds have climbed 24 percent to
109 billion yuan this year, after more than quadrupling in 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Average yield s on the
securities have dropped 56 basis points to 5.39 percent, a Bank
of China Ltd. index showed.  “The immediate impact of non-residents’ participation
could be small as the market focus is still on Europe’s debt
crisis,” said Nathan Chow, a Hong Kong-based economist at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd.,  Singapore ’s largest bank. “However, this
is going to boost demand for offshore yuan investment products
in the long term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  