-- Hong Kong’s Largest Bullion Vault Signals Rising Asia Wealth
-- B y   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-07-26T11:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/hong-kong-s-largest-bullion-vault-signals-region-s-rising-wealth.html
Hong Kong’s largest gold-storage
facility, which can hold about 22 percent of the bullion now in
Fort Knox, will open in September to meet rising demand from
banks and the wealthy, according to owner Malca-Amit  Global Ltd. (3271)   The facility, located on the ground floor of a building
within the international airport compound, has capacity for
1,000 metric tons, said Joshua Rotbart, general manager for the
Hong Kong-based company’s Malca-Amit Precious Metals unit. Two
of the vaults may hold assets, including gold, for banks and
financial institutions, and others will be used for diamonds,
jewelry, fine art and precious metals, said Rotbart.  The move in Hong Kong reflects increased demand for gold in
Asia even as the commodity struggles to sustain its rally into a
12th year. Gold-demand growth in  China , the world’s second-
largest user after  India  last year, is slowing, according to the
World Gold Council. Vault charges will depend on each customer’s
operations, according to Rotbart, who declined to give a figure
for the venture’s cost beyond millions of dollars.  “ Hong Kong  is a very important center for gold, especially
because it acts as a doorway to China,” said Sunil Kashyap,
head of Asia-Pacific foreign exchange and precious metals at
Scotiabank. “Current international hubs are in  New York , Zurich
and  London . There’s still a need to set up an Asian hub for
physical gold. The trend is for more people to look at storage
and trading in Asia, when it comes to physical metal.”  11-Year Rally  Immediate-delivery gold rallied from 2001 to 2011 as
investors sought protection from weaker currencies and the risk
of inflation, and central banks boosted holdings. The metal
traded at $1,618.75 an ounce at 7:42 p.m. in Hong Kong today,
3.5 percent higher this year. It rose 10 percent in 2011. Gold
held in  exchange-traded funds  reached a record 2,413.61 tons on
July 5, according to data tracked by Bloomberg.  The U.S. Bullion Depository Fort Knox in  Kentucky , held as
an asset of the nation at book value of $42.22 an ounce, holds
147.3 million ounces (4,582 tons) at present, according to data
on the U.S. Mint website. In total, U.S. holdings of gold amount
to 8,133.5 tons, according to World Gold Council data.  “The general trend is for moving the assets from the West
to the East,” said Rotbart, who also oversees business
development and marketing of the company’s vault in the
Singapore FreePort. “Proximity to China is very important.”  China’s  gross domestic product  expanded 7.6 percent in the
second quarter, the least in three years, a report showed on
July 13. Gold demand in the country may increase 13 percent to
870 tons this year, according to a revised forecast this month
from the WGC, which abandoned a target for usage to gain as much
as 30 percent to 1,000 tons. Last year, demand in the world’s
second-largest economy grew 20 percent to 769.8 tons.  Increasing Wealth  Asia-Pacific millionaires outnumbered those in  North
America  for the first time last year, according to Capgemini SA
and Royal Bank of Canada’s wealth-management unit. The number of
individuals in the region with at least $1 million in investable
assets rose 1.6 percent to 3.37 million, helped by increases in
China and  Indonesia , according to the firms’ World Wealth
Report, released last month. So-called high-net-worth
individuals in North America dropped 1.1 percent to 3.35
million.  The new storage facility will compete with services offered
by the Airport Authority Hong Kong, which began storage
operations at a 340 square meter site in 2009 for government
institutions, commodity exchanges, bullion banks, refiners,
wealthy individuals and exchange-traded funds. Capacity is
reviewed on a regular basis to ensure there is adequate storage
over the medium term, the authority said in a statement.  Singapore’s Push  Singapore is also among economies in  Asia  vying for a
greater share of the bullion trade. In February, the government
announced a plan to exempt investment-grade gold, silver and
platinum from a goods and services tax, starting from October.
The aim is to raise the city-state’s share of the global gold
trade to as much as 15 percent in five to 10 years from about 2
percent, according to IE Singapore, the external trade agency.  Malca-Amit plans another storage facility in  Shanghai  as
the firm targets 10 or more sites around the world over the next
two to three years, from six at present, said Rotbart. The
logistics company, founded in  Tel Aviv  in 1963 and handling more
than 50 percent of the world’s diamond transportation, started
its precious-metals storage business after the 2008 global
financial crisis reduced demand for gemstones, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  