-- Honus Wagner Baseball-Card Auctioneer Indicted for Fraud
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-25T20:35:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/honus-wagner-baseball-card-auctioneer-indicted-by-grand-jury.html
William Mastro, a sports memorabilia
auctioneer, was indicted by a U.S. grand jury for defrauding
bidders through actions that included hiding alterations to a
rare Honus Wagner baseball card.  Chicago ’s Acting U.S. Attorney  Gary Shapiro  announced
charges today against the former Mastro Auctions principal and
three other men. The portrait of Wagner, who played shortstop
for the Pittsburgh Pirates a century ago, is “the world’s most
expensive baseball trading card,” he said.  “Mastro allegedly failed to disclose that he had altered
the Wagner T-206 card by cutting the sides in a manner that, if
disclosed, would have significantly reduced the value of the
card,” Shapiro said.  Mastro and two other defendants deceived prospective
bidders about the fairness and competitiveness of the company’s
auctions, according to the indictment unsealed in federal court
in Chicago.  Other items that Mastro, 59, and former Chief Operating
Officer  Doug Allen  are accused of auctioning while knowing their
condition was misrepresented include hair from  Elvis Presley  and
“a purported 1869 Cincinnati Red Stockings trophy baseball,”
according to Shapiro.  Michael Monico of Chicago, Mastro’s lawyer, said his client
will take responsibility for his actions.  ‘Holy Grail’  “That card is nicknamed the Holy Grail of our hobby,”
said Bill Goodwin, president of the St. Louis-based auctioneer
Goodwin & Co., which sold one in April for $1.23 million. “It’s
the ultimate sports collectible.”  According to legend, Goodwin said today in a phone
interview, Wagner opposed having his image included with tobacco
products, which is how the cards were circulated at the time.  The card was pulled from production, accounting for its
scarcity, he said. About 45 to 65 are believed to exist in
varying degrees of preservation, according to Goodwin.  Wagner, who  played   Major League Baseball  from 1897 to 1917,
was inducted into the Hall of Fame in 1936. He died in 1955.  “Everyone that’s purchased a Wagner card that I know of
has made money on it,” he said.  Mastro, a resident of Palos Park, Illinois, is charged with
a single count of mail fraud, according to prosecutors. He owned
Mastro Auctions until 2004 and was its chairman and chief
executive officer from 1996 to February 2009.  ‘A Pioneer’  “We expect this matter will be resolved relatively quickly
without a trial,” Monico said in a phone interview. The
attorney, who called his client “a pioneer” in the sports
memorabilia industry, declined to say whether a plea agreement
had been reached or whether there was any specific time-frame
for doing so.  Allen, 49, of Crete,  Illinois , faces 14 counts of mail and
wire fraud. He is accused of making false representations about
the “authenticity of the purported Elvis hair.”  Mark Theotikos, 51, of Addison, Illinois, a former vice
president of auction operations, is charged with six counts of
wire and mail fraud.  William Boehm, 63, of Baldwin,  Missouri , the company’s
former director of  information technology , is charged with a
single count of making false statements to  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  agents.  “We are in the process of reviewing the allegations,”
Allen’s attorney, Michael J. Petro of Chicago, said in a
telephone interview.  Theotikos’s lawyer, Allan A. Ackerman of Chicago, said his
client will plead not guilty when arraigned. “We look forward
to his vindication,” the attorney said by phone.  No arraignment date has been set for Mastro, Allen or
Theotikos, Shapiro said. Boehm made an initial appearance today
in federal court in  St. Louis .  The case is U.S. v. Mastro, 12-cr-567, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  