-- Lonza Chief Plans Strategic Review to Unearth Additional Savings
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-07-25T07:53:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/lonza-profit-beats-estimates-as-ceo-says-more-savings-to-come.html
Lonza Group AG (LONN)  Chief Executive
Officer Richard Ridinger, who joined from  BASF SE (BAS)  in May, will
review the Swiss drug-ingredient maker’s global operations to
pursue savings in administration and manufacturing.  Next year’s focus will be on efficiency gains and deepening
the integration of U.S.-based Arch Chemicals, purchased in 2011
for $1.35 billion, said Ridinger, who at BASF helped oversee the
integration of cosmetics-ingredients maker Cognis. Lonza shares
climbed as much as 8.3 percent after earnings beat estimates.  The drug-ingredient industry is consolidating in a drive to
bring down costs while meeting stringent regulatory standards.
After years of buying and selling businesses, Lonza’s
aspirations for mergers and acquisitions will take a back seat
as the focus switches to improving profitability and staying
within the terms of loan covenants.  “We have to look at our global asset footprint,” Ridinger
said on a call. He declined to say if the measures would result
in a headcount reduction. “A lot of players have been bought
and sold, it’s up to us now to form a team and return to the
champion’s league.”  Shares of the Basel-based company traded 7.8 percent higher
at 47.29 francs as of 9:50 a.m. local time, the steepest
intraday gain since Sept. 16.  Life Science Ingredients unit head Beat In-Albon has been
put in charge of improving  Switzerland ’s Visp facility, Lonza’s
largest. The complex manufacturers chemical intermediates and
undertakes custom manufacturing of active pharmaceutical
ingredients. Ridinger is looking to go beyond an existing 100
million-franc savings target at the 2,890-employee site, and
move away from low-margin contracts.  Ridinger took over from Stephan Borgas, who was ousted in
January following a dip in results.  Earnings Beats Estimates  Lonza today reported first-half earnings before interest
and taxes increased 24 percent to 168 million francs ($169
million), beating the 154.6 million-franc estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of analysts. Sales of 1.96 billion francs also
beat estimates, driven by better-than-expected demand for
microbial controls used in treating swimming-pool water.
Analysts had estimated 1.84 billion francs in revenue.  The company confirmed its 2012 target of Ebit growth of 10
to 15 percent, and aims to lift profitability to 20 percent by
2015.  Lonza has $1.38 billion of debt acquired from the Arch
acquisition which must be repaid over three years. It’s “fully
on track” with its debt program, with some headroom available,
Chief Financial Officer Toralf Haag said on a conference call.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  