-- Top Lady Weightlifters; Jerry Hall’s Model Behavior: TV
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/top-lady-weightlifters-jerry-hall-s-model-behavior-tv.html
Carol Alt subsisted on “an apple
here, a carrot there.”  Paulina Porizkova remembers teenage girls routinely
propositioned, in vile ways, by powerful, adult men.  “What people called sexual harassment,” she says, “we called
compliments.”  Ah, the life of a supermodel. It wasn’t all champagne,
clubbing and cocaine, though there was plenty of that, as
detailed in  HBO (TWX) ’s warm, chatty documentary “About Face:
Supermodels Then and Now.”  Candid interviews with a Who’s Who of American beauties from
the 1950s through the ’80s offer a peek behind the runways and
glossy photo spreads that idealized (not to say manufactured)
physical perfection.  And you won’t hate these charmers because they’re beautiful.  Glancing at her much younger self in a classic (and
stunning) Richard Avedon photo, the silver-haired Carmen
Dell’Orefice repeats her mother’s words: “You have feet like
coffins and ears like Sedan doors.”  Directed by Timothy Greenfield-Sanders, “About Face” uses
terrific archival fashion footage and stills, but the focus is
on the models’ recollections of their days in the spotlight.
They reflect, with grace and humor, on the costs and privileges
of glory.  Hall Boasts  Jerry Hall , sharp as ever, revels in the headiest pre-dawns
of Studio 54, then boasts, “When I turned 50 I felt a sense of
achievement. I made it.”  Baby-voiced Pat  Cleveland , a pioneer among mixed-race
models, chokes up twice, first recalling racist attacks in the
South and then remembering encouragement from famed expatriate
Josephine Baker.  Others interviewed include Christie Brinkley,  Isabella Rossellini , Cheryl Tiegs and Marisa Berenson, Karen Bjornson,
Bethann Hardison, Beverly Johnson, Lisa Taylor and China
Machado.  Impressionistic and just 72-minutes long, “About Face”
doesn’t aim to be anything close to a definitive history of the
modeling industry, its social impact or its financial
reverberations. Though a denouement of sorts arrives with the
supermodels gathering for group photo shoots, the documentary
could use a sharper point of view. Especially on the big
subjects it raises, from drugs and  plastic surgery  to industry
racism and the impact of AIDS on fashion.  Beauties Bark  But the models, some still working and all looking great
(naturally and otherwise) don’t hold back.  “If you had a ceiling falling down in your living room,
would you not go and have a repair?” says Dell’Orefice, still
modeling after 65 years in the business. “I think it’s bad,”
says Hall, “that we have as role models people who look scary to
small children.”  The sisters in this very exclusive sorority are all clever
and thoughtful, occasionally rueful but with hard-won self-
esteem.  Says Dell’Orefice, looking fabulous in her eighties, “When I
go, I want to go with my high heels on.”  “About Face: Supermodels Then and Now” airs on  HBO  Monday at
9 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ***  ‘Strong!’  Cheryl Haworth stands 5’8” and weighs about 300 pounds. She
could probably clean and jerk three supermodels.  “ Strong! ” director Julie Wyman’s poignant PBS documentary
about Haworth -- the youngest athlete to win an Olympic
weightlifting medal -- raises issues of beauty and self-esteem
not unlike those of “About Face,” but from an entirely different
perspective.  Laying the groundwork for heavyweight female weightlifters
like this year’s star-in-the-making Holley Mangold, Haworth took
the bronze medal at 17 in the 2000 Sydney games, then battled
injuries through comebacks of varying success before retiring in
2010.  Wyman’s camera follows Haworth as she trains for the 2008
Olympics in Beijing. In format, “Strong!” is a fairly standard
sports documentary--training in the gym, defeats and triumphs in
competition.  Haworth, though, is anything but standard, inhabiting, with
uncommon dignity, perseverance, self-doubt and hope, a small
world that rewards her size in the midst of a larger one that
doesn’t.  “Strong!” airs Thursday on PBS at 9 p.m. New York time.
Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 