-- Top Syrian Defector Tlas Urges Unity Amid Battles in Aleppo
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-25T14:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/top-syrian-defector-tlas-urges-unity-amid-battles-in-aleppo.html
Brigadier General Manaf Tlas, the
most prominent defector from  Syria ’s armed forces, called on the
country’s citizens to unite as they prepare for the end of
President Bashar al-Assad’s rule.  A new Syria “will not be built on vengeance, exclusion or
monopoly,” Tlas said in his first public appearance since he
left the country about two weeks ago. “Our role today as
Syrians is to assure each other, and to make the regime and
everyone who wants to ignite the struggle in Syria miss their
chance.” Tlas spoke on  Al Arabiya  television, which later
showed footage of him in the holy Saudi city of Mecca wrapped in
the white seamless clothes worn by pilgrims.  His appearance came as rebels battled government forces in
the old part of Aleppo, Syria’s largest city, and in his
hometown of Rastan in Homs province, according to Rami  Abdel
Rahman , head of the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights.  Abdel Rahman said the army has sent reinforcements to
Aleppo and that helicopters were shelling rebel hideouts there.
“What’s happening there is street fighting,” he said in a
phone interview from Coventry in the U.K. “The rebels have
taken over some streets, but not sections of the city.” In the
capital, Damascus, security forces are in control, he said.  The Free Syrian Army posted a link to a video on Twitter in
which the rebels display machineguns, ammunition and gas masks
they say they captured in a raid on an army post in Aleppo.  Aleppo Clashes  State television said government troops clashed with a
“terrorist group” in several Aleppo neighborhoods yesterday,
inflicting heavy losses. It also said authorities were dealing
with an attack that some “terrorist, mercenary” prisoners at a
jail in Homs have launched against other inmates.  The Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights  said government
troops have been trying to storm the jail to end an insurrection
that began last week, and that many inmates have been killed and
wounded.  International and regional efforts have failed to end the
violence in Syria, which began in March 2011 and has left at
least 19,000 dead, including about 5,000 government troops,
according to the Observatory. Another activist group, the
opposition Local Coordination Committees in Syria, said 86
people have been killed across Syria so far today.  The worsening conflict forced the United Nations observer
mission in Syria, which had about 300 monitors in the country,
to suspend its operations last month. About half of the military
observers “have been for the time being sent back to their
countries,”  Herve Ladsous , the UN’s undersecretary general for
peacekeeping operations, told reporters in Damascus today.  Sunni Officers  Tlas, a  Sunni Muslim , was a confidant of Assad, who is from
the Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam. More than 70
percent of Syria’s population is Sunni and Assad and his ruling
minority depend on the loyalty of Sunni officers.  Formerly a commander in the elite Republican Guard, Tlas is
the son of ex-Defense Minister Mustapha Tlas and was a childhood
friend of Assad. Before leaving the country, he headed Brigade
105 in the Revolutionary Guard, according to the pro-government
website Syria Steps.  Al Arabiya reported today that Syria’s ambassador to the
 United Arab Emirates , Abdel Latif al-Dabbagh, has defected. The
channel said yesterday that his wife, Lamia Hariri, who is
Syria’s charge d’affaires in Cyprus, had also defected and is
now in Qatar.  Turkey  is closing all of its border gates with Syria today,
NTV television reported citing Hayati Yazici, the minister for
customs and trade. It has also stopped its trucks carrying goods
to Syria due to “serious concerns” about security, Economy
Minister Zafer Caglayan told reporters today.  Trucks will continue to be admitted from Syria, Caglayan
said. He said trade with Syria has dropped 80 percent before the
steps were made and exporters will continue shipping goods to
north African markets such as Libya and  Egypt  by boat, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  