-- Morgan Stanley Stock May Be Worth $32 in Breakup, Mayo Says
-- B y   B r a d l e y   K e o u n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-07-25T21:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/morgan-stanley-stock-could-be-worth-32-in-breakup-mayo-says.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , trading at less than
half of its liquidation value, could be worth as much as $32 a
share in a breakup, said Michael Mayo, an analyst at CLSA Ltd.  Short-sellers betting against Morgan Stanley would be
“blown to Neptune” if the New York-based investment bank heeds
calls for the biggest U.S. financial firms to be split into
pieces, Mayo, 49, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart.” The stock gained 2.7 percent to
close at $12.96 in New York.  James Gorman , Morgan Stanley’s chief executive officer,
said last week that the firm will continue to shrink its fixed-
income  trading unit , cutting so-called risk-weighted assets 30
percent from the third quarter of 2011 by the end of 2014. Mayo
said that reduction should be closer to two-thirds.  “This is not a tough call,” Mayo said. “If you break up
the big banks, at least in the case of Morgan Stanley, I think
investors would be  huge winners . I hope they can achieve this
value on their own without a breakup, but they don’t have
forever.”  Other large U.S. banks including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  should consider breaking up, Mayo said. Citigroup,
based in New York, has demonstrated over a decade of
underperformance that it’s unqualified to play in the “major
leagues” and should go back to the “minor leagues,” Mayo
said.  ‘Disagree Vehemently’  Stockbrokers in Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America’s Merrill Lynch unit would cheer if the division were
sold to a private-equity firm, he said. The question about
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , based in New York, is whether the bank
will be too big to manage once CEO  Jamie Dimon  leaves, Mayo
said.  Jeanmarie McFadden, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, declined
to comment on Mayo’s remarks, as did Citigroup’s Jon Diat and
Bank of America’s  Jerry Dubrowski .  Mayo said he disagreed with former Citigroup CEO Sanford “Sandy” Weill that the U.S. financial system had changed in
the decade since Weill ran the bank.  Weill, who helped engineer the 1998 merger of Travelers
Group Inc. and Citicorp Inc. to create the largest  U.S. bank ,
told CNBC earlier today that it’s time to dismantle the nation’s
biggest lenders. He said he altered his views on the merits of
large banks because “the world changes.”  “I agree 100 percent with the conclusion that Citigroup
should be broken up, but I disagree vehemently that the world
has changed from the time  Sandy Weill  was CEO,” Mayo said in a
telephone interview. “The same ill-conceived incentives that
caused the financial crisis are still in place today.”  Weill, 79, stepped down as CEO of New York-based Citigroup
in 2003 and as chairman in 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bradley Keoun in New York at 
 bkeoun@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  