-- Moroccan Suspended From Olympic Games for Positive Drug Test
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-07-25T15:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/moroccan-suspended-from-olympic-games-for-positive-drug-test-1-.html
Moroccan 1500-meter runner Alaoui
Selsouli will be suspended from the Olympics after testing
positive for a banned diuretic, the International Association of
Athletics Federations said today.  Selsouli waived her right to have her back-up sample
tested, the IAAF said in an e-mailed statement, meaning she’ll
be suspended for all competitions. She can request a hearing by
the national athletic federation within the next 3 months, the
IAAF said.  A sample taken after a meeting in Paris earlier this month
tested positive for furosemide, which is a banned substance, the
IAAF said. The 28-year-old from Marrakech was suspended for two
years in 2009 after failing a drug test, according to the
Olympic News Service.  Fewer athletes are expected to cheat at the London games
than ever before because of improvements in testing programs,
according to the  World Anti-Doping Agency . The Lausanne,
Switzerland-based group is introducing a new human growth
hormone test to catch dopers.  “It’s a very significant step and it’s a very helpful
one,” WADA Director General David Howman said today at a press
conference. “We’ve just got to make sure it works on those who
are using HGH and getting away with it and have been for ages.”  More than 6,000 tests will be administered during the 2012
Olympics, Howman said. Four years ago in Beijing, there were
4,770 samples taken, with 14 athletes and 6 horses found in
violation of the rules, the  International Olympic Committee 
said.  The new test can now detect the use of human growth hormone
over a period of weeks compared with hours, Howman told
reporters. The London games officially begin in two days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane at Olympic Park London at 
 Cspillane3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  