-- Osborne Says His Policies Show Progress as Labour Sees Failure
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-07-25T11:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/osborne-says-u-k-has-deep-rooted-problems-as-economy-shrinks.html
U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  said his austerity policies are making headway
against “deep-rooted” economic problems as his critics said he
was making them worse.  Britain’s recession deepened in the second quarter,
shrinking the most in three years with a contraction of 0.7
percent, official data showed today. The economy is now 0.9
percent smaller than in the third quarter of 2010, just after
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition came to power.  “We all know the country has deep-rooted economic problems
and these disappointing figures confirm that,” Osborne said in
a statement released by his office in London today. “We’re
dealing with our debts at home and the debt crisis abroad.”  Osborne had banked on the economy expanding by as much as
2.8 percent this year under his blueprint upon taking office in
2010. His opponents in the  Labour Party  say his fiscal plans are
too harsh at a time when households and banks are weighed down
by too much debt.  “We’ve made progress over the last two years in cutting
the deficit by 25 percent and businesses have created over
800,000 new jobs,” Osborne said. “But given what’s happening
in the world we need a relentless focus on the economy and
recent announcements on infrastructure and lending show that’s
exactly what we’re doing.”  Still, Labour says those policies aren’t enough on their
own and said Osborne’s fiscal plans have squeezed spending and
hurt confidence. Labour also says austerity is self defeating as
weak growth makes it harder to tame the deficit.  ‘Shocking Figures’  “These shocking figures speak for themselves,” Labour’s
Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls  said in a statement. As we warned
two years ago, David Cameron and George Osborne’s ill-judged
plan has turned Britain’s recovery into a flat-lining economy
and now a deep and deepening recession,’’ Balls said.  Labour called for a “change of direction” and said
Osborne should introduce a tax on bankers’ bonuses to fund jobs
for young people and the  construction industry , cut Value Added
Tax charged on most goods and services and tax breaks for small
companies.  Matthew Oakeshott, a lawmaker in the upper House of Lords
with Cameron’s Liberal Democrat coalition partners, took a swipe
at Osborne when he told  Sky News  that “we need our A team at
the Treasury.”  Scottish National Party lawmaker Stewart Hosie called for
an “urgent change” in policy. Welsh nationalist Plaid Cymru
lawmaker Jonathan Edwards said today’s data were “disastrous.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  