-- Osborne Economy Plan Attacked as Critics Question Competence
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-26T11:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/osborne-s-economy-plan-draws-fire-as-critics-question-competence.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  came under renewed criticism after Britain’s recession
deepened in the second quarter, prompting questions about his
economic plans and whether he should remain at the Treasury.  The opposition  Labour Party  and economists including
 Stewart Robertson  at Aviva Investors said Osborne should
reconsider his fiscal squeeze after the economy shrank 0.7
percent, the most in more than three years. Two coalition
lawmakers questioned whether the chancellor should keep his job.  “There is enough to be seriously worried about and it
casts doubt on the idea of an expansionary fiscal contraction,”
said Robertson, chief European economist at Aviva in  London .
“It would be absolutely irresponsible for the government not to
take note and say we have to take our foot off the brake.”  Osborne’s 2010 austerity program -- which was extended for
two years in November -- envisaged that the economy would be
growing by 2.8 percent this year. Instead, it is 0.9 percent
smaller than in the third quarter of 2010, just after Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition came to power, and struggling
to overcome aftershocks of the 2008 banking crisis and the euro-
area debt turmoil.  “We all know the country has deep-rooted economic
problems,” Osborne said. “We’re dealing with our debts at home
and the debt crisis abroad.”  German Expansion  While Britain’s government has blamed the euro-area turmoil
for pushing Britain into a double-dip recession, the first since
the 1970s, a comparison with other nations indicates that may
not be the only factor. According to a Bundesbank report on July
23,  Germany ’s economy, the euro-region’s largest, probably grew
moderately in the  second quarter  after a 0.5 percent expansion
in the first three months.  “Austerity is failing,” said Jonathan Portes, director of
the National Institute for Economic and Social Research in
London. “It’s clear that having a very sharp fiscal
consolidation before the recovery had been firmly established
was a mistake. We’ve seen a very sharp fall in public-sector
investment and most of the deficit cutting has been in
investment.”  The drop in U.K. gross domestic product in the second
quarter was led by a 5.2 percent plunge in construction.
Production and services also declined. The slump partly
reflected the impact of record rainfall and an extra public
holiday. Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc estimates that
excluding one-off effects, the economy is “broadly flat.”  Labour Call  Still, Osborne’s opponents in the Labour Party say his
fiscal plans are too harsh at a time when households and banks
are weighed down by debt. Taking longer to bring the budget into
balance would have paid for tax and spending measures and
sustained  consumer confidence , they say.  “He’s got to admit he’s failed and change course,”
Labour’s Treasury spokesman  Ed Balls  said in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “You should see the risks ahead and act
in a risk-averse way. This chancellor is being reckless.”  Economists say that, regardless of who was right in 2010,
Osborne needs to follow the advice of the  International Monetary
Fund  and loosen the fiscal stance later this year. While Cameron
said today that the government “mustn’t scrap plans to deal
with debt,” the IMF has said markets won’t turn on Britain in
the same way they have done on other European countries if it
changes its fiscal program.  Adjustment Needed  The yield on the 10-year government bond was at 1.478
percent as of 11:44 a.m. in London, after falling to a  record-
low  1.407 percent earlier this week. The two-year yield declined
to a record today. In  Spain , 10-year borrowing costs are 7.19
percent.  “Gilt yields are at the lowest levels ever so you can’t
speak of a loss of confidence,” said  Michael Saunders , chief
Western European economist at Citigroup Inc. in London. “The
drag from household deleveraging has been greater than expected
and the euro-area crisis has had an impact. The question is not
to revisit whether they should have done less in 2010, but how
do you adjust circumstances to what you have now.”  Pressure on Osborne has been mounting in recent days.
Matthew Oakeshott, an upper-house lawmaker for Cameron’s Liberal
Democrat coalition partners whom Business Secretary Vince Cable
yesterday described as his friend, took a swipe at the
chancellor when he told Sky News television that “we need our A
team at the Treasury,” suggesting Osborne be replaced.  “I am not pushing for the job,” Cable told BBC Radio 4
today. “We are part of a team.”  Voter Anger  The Mail on Sunday newspaper reported July 15 that Osborne
could be moved from his post if the U.K.’s credit rating is cut,
swapping roles with Foreign Secretary  William Hague .  Nadine Dorries, a Tory lawmaker in the House of Commons who
has clashed repeatedly with Cameron and Osborne over policy,
called for Cameron to make the switch.  “For the sake of country and  Conservative Party , most
trusted politician in U.K., William Hague, needs to become
Chancellor. #wonthappen,” Dorries posted on her Twitter
account.  Voters have turned against Osborne. Two polls for
newspapers published July 22 showed twice as many voters want
him replaced than the proportion that would prefer to keep him
as finance minister.  Forty-four percent of voters polled by ComRes Ltd. for the
Sunday Mirror and Independent on Sunday said Osborne should go,
while 20 percent said he should remain. A  YouGov Plc (YOU)  survey for
the Sunday Times showed 48 percent in favor of Cameron removing
Osborne, with 20 percent wanting to keep him.  Osborne, once regarded as a “shrewd central key person”
is now seen as “as a bit of a bumbler,” said  Steven Bell , a
former Treasury official who is now chief economist at hedge
fund GLC Ltd. in London. Still, “if you fire him what are you
going to do? The fashion in recent years has been to hang on to
the chancellor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  