-- Total to Develop 1.6 Billion Euro Tempa Rossa Project in Italy
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-07-25T15:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/total-to-develop-1-6-billion-euro-tempa-rossa-project-in-italy.html
Total SA (FP) , Europe’s third-largest oil
company, will begin developing a 1.6 billion euro ($1.9 billion)
onshore field in  Italy  as a probe into contracts that led to the
arrest of local executives drags on for more than three years.  Total expects output from the Tempa Rossa field to begin in
early 2016 and reach 50,000 barrels of oil a day and 230,000
cubic meters of natural gas, it said in a statement.  “The field has significant potential and will make a
strategic contribution to regional economic development,”
raising Italy’s output by almost 40 percent, Yves-Louis Darricarrere, exploration and production chief, said today.  Lionel Levha, head of the Italian unit, was arrested by
police as part of the investigation in 2008 and the company’s
offices searched, Total said at the time. An Italian judge also
suspended Total’s exploration concession for a year.  “The legal procedure is still ongoing,” Victoria Chanial,
a Total spokeswoman, said today, with four officials charged.  The company, based outside Paris, is operator of the field
with 75 percent, while  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has 25 percent. The
original partners in the project, including  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) , had expected production to begin as early as 2010.  The Italian government of  Mario Monti  is seeking to attract
as much as $18 billion in investment, partly by easing a ban on
offshore oil and gas exploration imposed after the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico spill. Monti has said companies such as Shell,  Edison SpA (EDN) 
and Eni can resume shallow-water projects within 12 kilometers
(7 miles) of the coast that they were forced to abandon in 2010.  Regain Confidence  The decree, which needs parliamentary approval, is part of
his efforts to regain investor confidence as Europe’s economic
crisis threatens to cut off market funding. Italy relies on
imports to meet 90 percent of its oil and natural gas demand.  Tempa Rossa, 4,000 meters underground in the Basilicata
region, will have eight wells, with oil sent to the Taranto
refinery via the Val d’Agri-Taranto pipeline. It will help Total
sustain output growth in coming years, Darricarrere said.  Total is expected to report adjusted second-quarter net
profit of 2.845 billion euros on July 27, according to the
average of 10 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The explorer isn’t expecting production growth in 2012
after the closing of the Elgin and Franklin fields following a
leak this year, as well as stoppages in Nigeria and Yemen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  