-- Motorola Solutions Buys Back Shares as Profit Rises 15%
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-25T20:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/motorola-solutions-buys-back-stock-as-profit-increases.html
Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI) , the
electronics-equipment company that makes everything from walkie-
talkies to scanning devices, raised its quarterly dividend and
said it will buy back another $2 billion of shares after
reporting a 15 percent gain in second-quarter profit.  Net income before stock compensation and amortization
climbed to $350 million from $304 million a year earlier, the
Schaumburg, Illinois-based company, said today in a statement.
Sales climbed 8.3 percent to $2.15 billion, and its quarterly
dividend will rise by 18 percent to 26 cents a share.  Motorola Solutions, created from the legacy business of
Motorola Inc. after its mobile-phone division was spun off in
January 2011, is winning more technology business from local
government agencies and companies. It will introduce rugged
tablets and mobile computers later this year using Google Inc.’s
Android platform, Chief Executive Officer  Greg Brown  said.  Motorola relies mainly on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows
software for its devices and the planned introduction later this
year of a new Windows 8 platform gives Motorola a chance to
“reassess” what it can offer on the platform, Brown said today
in a telephone interview.  “I’m cautiously optimistic about it,” he said.  Motorola agreed to buy  Psion Plc (PON)  last month and will use
the deal to expand its industrial mobile computing business,
which sells computers with chunky cases and reinforced glass,
Brown said.  Middle East, Asia  As Google made a deal to acquire Motorola Inc.’s spun-off
mobile-phone business for $12.5 billion -- a transaction
completed in May -- Motorola Solutions focused on securing
contracts in the U.S., the  Middle East  and  Asia . Its $193
million deal for London-based Psion was its first acquisition of
an actual hardware maker since the spinoff.  “In the face of the declining euro and macroeconomic
headwinds to print 8 percent revenue growth and beat consensus
EPS estimates was very satisfying,” Brown said on a call with
analysts after earnings were released.  Profit from continuing operations excluding the
compensation charges last quarter was 70 cents a share. That
beat the average estimate of 69 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales beat the estimate of $2.11 billion.  Motorola Solutions rose 5.6 percent to $47.81 at the  New
York  close. The shares have gained 3.3 percent this year.  Today’s dividend increase and stock repurchase is the
latest move in Brown’s pledge to continue returning cash to
shareholders. Motorola Solutions repurchased $1.17 billion worth
of shares in February from billionaire investor  Carl Icahn . It
was Icahn who had pushed for a breakup of Motorola Inc., as he
sought ways to improve the return of his investment in the
slumping stock.  The next quarterly dividend will be payable on Oct. 15 to
stockholders of record at the close of business on Sept. 14,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  