-- House Crafting Drought Relief for Livestock Producers
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-07-26T18:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/house-crafting-drought-relief-for-livestock-producers.html
U.S. House Republican leaders sought
support for legislation to provide emergency drought relief to
livestock producers as Democrats pressed for a floor vote on a
full five-year extension of government farm programs set to
expire in September.  House Speaker  John Boehner  voiced a determination to
provide such assistance without specifying whether it would take
the form of a stand-alone measure or a one-year extension of
current farm programs. Democrats oppose both approaches.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, today told reporters the House
is working on an “appropriate path forward” that would help
ranchers, who aren’t covered by government insurance programs as
are growers of major crops such as corn and soybeans. He didn’t
say whether the legislation would be included in a new farm bill
or an extension of current law.  Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack today said Congress
should “act as quickly as possible” on the agriculture policy
bill with a provision for disaster aid for livestock producers.
Without the relief, ``these livestock producers have no other
resource than to liquidate at a time when they'll get
substantially less for their cattle or their pork.’’  A program that would have provided emergency assistance to
livestock producers expired Sept. 30, 2011. Republicans are
crafting a plan that would transfer as much as $300 million from
other farm programs to help ranchers, Agriculture Committee
Chairman  Frank Lucas , Republican of  Oklahoma , said yesterday.  Congressional Pressure  Representative  Collin Peterson  of  Minnesota , the top
Democrat on that committee, said Boehner is pressuring Lucas to
do a one-year extension of the current farm law, which was
passed in 2008 and authorized spending for U.S. Department of
Agriculture programs for five years. He would rather see
Congress approve the bill the agriculture panel passed July 12.  Peterson said an extension would allow opponents of sugar
and dairy subsidy programs included in the measure to drum up
additional support, with the ‘‘the potential of killing’’ the
bill.  Boehner has said no decision has been made on whether to
bring the measure to a floor vote.  Lucas said Republican lawmakers don’t have a plan for the
farm bill. ‘‘If a final decision has been made, it hasn’t been
shared with me,” said Lucas, who added that he didn’t think
there are enough votes in the House to pass a full farm bill or
an extension.  Peterson said Republican leaders are “panicking” over
finding a way to provide drought relief because they don’t have
support for a legislative vehicle to do that. He said they are
now searching for a “Plan B.”  Lawmakers plan to leave  Washington  at the end of next week
for their monthlong August recess. Lucas yesterday said he is
trying to draft legislation in time for a House vote next week
because “leadership would like to respond to the needs out
there before going home.”  The Democratic-controlled Senate passed a bipartisan farm
bill that would have to be reconciled with the House version.
Senator  Debbie Stabenow , a Michigan Democrat and chairwoman of
the Senate Agriculture Committee, said this week she doesn’t
plan to advance drought emergency legislation because such
relief is in the Senate farm bill.  “At this point we want to get the farm bill done; that’s
what the House needs to do,” Stabenow said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  