-- Toyota Extends Global Sales Lead Over General Motors, VW
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-07-26T20:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/toyota-extends-global-sales-lead-over-general-motors-vw.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , rebounding from
lost production after last year’s natural disasters in  Asia , is
on pace to outsell  General Motors Co. (GM)  and Volkswagen AG and
reclaim its title as the world’s top-selling automaker.  Toyota sales rose 34 percent in the first six months of the
year to 4.97 million globally, leading GM by 300,000 and VW by
520,000 deliveries. GM global deliveries rose 2.9 percent to
4.67 million during the first half while VW sales increased 8.9
percent to 4.45 million, according to the companies.  The results pave the way for Toyota, led by President  Akio Toyoda , to reclaim the lead in annual global auto sales from GM
a year after the tsunami in  Japan  and floods in  Thailand  roiled
production. The recovery in production helped Toyota’s sales
rebound in the U.S. and Japan, its two biggest markets, while GM
and Volkswagen struggled with a shrinking European market.  “Toyota has bounced back stronger than expected,”  Jeff Schuster , senior vice president of forecasting for LMC
Automotive in Troy,  Michigan , said yesterday in an e-mail. “We
are now at the critical mid-year point in the race, and given
Toyota’s lead, it will be very difficult for GM to catch
Toyota.”  While the largest Asian automaker expanded its lead from
210,000 vehicles over GM and about 330,000 over VW after the
first quarter, the Toyota City, Japan-based company may start to
lose some momentum.  “Keep in mind Toyota’s sales may be stronger in the first
half of 2012 than the second half because they are still
recovering from the impact of the tsunami last year and re-
stocking dealerships, pulling in consumers who may have
waited,”  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst with IHS
Automotive, said yesterday in an e-mail. “But that positive
impact will trail off as the year progresses.”  Global Battle  Toyota, GM and VW are locked in a battle for global
supremacy and the bragging rights and scale that come with being
the world’s biggest automaker.  “I’m sure GM would love to be No. 1, but they would rather
be profitable so they are not going to get into a market-share
race at the expense of their balance sheets,” Lindland said.  Toyota overtook GM to become the world’s largest automaker
by sales in 2008 as the U.S. market collapsed and GM headed
toward bankruptcy reorganization in 2009. GM, based in  Detroit ,
regained the sales lead last year as Toyota’s output was limited
following the natural disasters in Asia.  “It’s difficult to compare this year to last year because
last year was such a special circumstance,”  Dave Sullivan ,
product analyst at AutoPacific Inc. in Troy, Michigan, said in
an interview.  Difficult Comparison  GM’s new Cruze small car benefited from Toyota’s limited
presence in the U.S. market last year,  Jesse Toprak , an industry
analyst from TrueCar.com, said in a telephone interview.  U.S. sales of the Chevrolet Cruze soared to 231,732 from
24,495 in 2010 when the vehicle first arrived in GM’s home
market. So far this year, Cruze sales in the U.S. fell 7.4
percent, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  When “you couldn’t find a lot of Japanese cars, you had
these new domestic products, it was almost the perfect storm,”
Toprak said. “When consumers are thinking small car, most
consumers in the U.S. are still thinking Japanese, they’re still
thinking Toyotas.”  Toyota has also been more aggressive with incentive
spending in the U.S., he said. Toyota spent on average per
vehicle $1,942 in June compared to $1,579 on incentives during
calendar-year 2009, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-
based Autodata. “They are more competitive,” he said.  GM Europe  GM, which posted a record calendar-year profit of $9.19
billion in 2011, is struggling to stem losses in  Europe . The
automaker’s U.S. share fell to 18.1 percent after six months
this year from 19.9 percent during the same period last year,
according to Autodata. Toyota’s U.S. share rose to 14.4 percent
from 12.8 percent.  Seventy percent of GM’s U.S. nameplates will be redesigned
or new in 2012 and 2013, Cain of GM said.  “We are in the early days of the most aggressive roll-out
of new products in our history, which will help us press our
advantage in the U.S. and  China  and grow profitably around the
world,” Cain said in the e-mail.  Toyota’s sales include Hino and Daihatsu models. GM’s sales
include the Wuling brand in China. While Volkswagen has several
brands, including Skoda, Audi and Lamborghini, its total doesn’t
include Porsche, which the Wolfsburg, Germany-based company
takes over next month.  VW (VOW)  reports second-quarter earnings today.  GM rose 1.6 percent to $19.11 at the close in New York. The
shares slid 42 percent from their November 2010 initial public
offering. Toyota’s American depositary receipts rose 2.2 percent
to $74.11.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan,  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  