-- Payday Lenders Seek U.S. Oversight to Avoid State Rules
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-25T12:09:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/payday-lenders-seek-u-s-oversight-to-avoid-state-rules.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission may sue Miami over whether the city adequately
disclosed financial information when it raised money from
investors.  The SEC on Monday told Miami that its staff, after a more
than two-year probe, plans to recommend that the agency’s
commissioners bring civil fraud charges, the Florida city said
in a disclosure to investors yesterday.  The SEC has been investigating the city since at least
December 2009, when it sought information about the transfer of
money for capital projects to the city’s general fund in 2007
and 2008. The transfers made the city’s finances appear stronger
as it dealt with flagging property taxes and growing pension
obligations.  The city said it plans to argue against a lawsuit.  “The city respectfully disagrees with the SEC staff’s
position and intends to present information to the SEC’s
commissioners demonstrating that such challenges are not
warranted,” it said in the filing.  Compliance Action  Google Moves Toward Possible Antitrust-Case Settlement, EU Says  Google Inc. (GOOG)  has reached a “good” understanding with
European Union regulators working toward a possible settlement
of an antitrust probe, an EU spokesman said.  “The commission considers Google’s proposals as a good
basis for further talks and has reached a good level of
understanding with Google,” Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for
the European Commission, said in an e-mail from Brussels
yesterday. “There will soon be discussions at technical level.
We hope this process will lead to remedies addressing our
concerns.”  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  asked Google in
May to make an offer to settle concerns that it promotes its own
specialist search services, copies rivals’ travel and restaurant
reviews, and that its agreements with websites and software
developers stifle competition in the advertising industry.  Almunia told MLex in an  interview  earlier yesterday that
regulators have been “exchanging views” during recent weeks of
talks on a possible settlement of the EU’s investigation into
allegations that the world’s largest search engine discriminates
against rivals in search results.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
Argentina and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google in Brussels, said the
company continued to cooperate with regulators.  Regulators asked Google to extend an initial offer to
modify its search engine to cover mobile applications for
smartphones and tablet computers, two people familiar with the
negotiations said last week.  Philips Gets Antitrust Immunity as EU Probes CD, DVD Drives  Royal Philips Electronics NV (PHIA)  said it was granted immunity
from fines after the European Union sent makers of CD and DVD
drives formal antitrust complaints claiming they colluded
globally to fix prices.  Philips won’t be punished by the European Commission on the
condition it continues to cooperate with the investigation,
according to an e-mailed statement from Joost Akkermans, a
spokesman for the Amsterdam-based company.  Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc. and Philips said they were
among 13 companies sent statements of objections by the European
Commission yesterday. The EU’s Brussels-based antitrust
authority, said it charged the companies with colluding to rig
bids for at least five years on optical disk drives sold to
manufacturers of personal computers and servers. The EU didn’t
identify the suppliers or the customers.  “The commission has concerns that those suppliers may have
coordinated their behavior in bidding events organized by two
major” manufacturers, the EU said in a statement. “This
behavior, if established, may have ultimately affected customers
that bought optical disk drives manufactured by the companies
concerned.”  Hitachi-LG, a joint venture of Tokyo-based  Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  and
Seoul-based  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , received an EU complaint,
according to an e-mailed statement from Hitachi. The company
didn’t elaborate.  Hitachi-LG agreed last year to plead guilty and pay a $21.1
million fine after a U.S. antitrust investigation over collusion
and price-fixing for optical drives to be sold to  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  In addition,  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and Toshiba Corp. have said the U.S.  Justice Department  sought
information from them over the drives.  Sony, Hitachi,  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , LG and Toshiba are
being sued for compensation by purchasers in a U.S. lawsuit. A
judge ruled in 2010 that the case could proceed while the U.S.
government pursues its criminal probe. Toshiba Samsung Storage
Technology Corp. and Hitachi-LG Data Storage Inc., both joint
ventures, and Philips Lite-On Digital Solutions Corp. were also
named in the court filings.  Beth Robins, a spokeswoman in LG’s U.K. press office and
Sylvia Shin, a spokeswoman for Sony Europe, declined to
immediately comment. Toshiba and Samsung didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  Expert Networker John Kinnucan Said Ready to Enter Guilty Plea  Broadband Research LLC founder John Kinnucan, who was
accused of insider-trading as part of a nationwide crackdown of
illegal tipping at  hedge funds  and technology companies, will
plead guilty today in New York federal court, a person familiar
with the case said.  Kinnucan was indicted in February, accused of passing
inside information to clients at two unidentified hedge funds
about  SanDisk Corp (SNDK) ,  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV) ,  OmniVision Technologies
Inc. (OVTI)  He was charged with two counts of conspiracy and two counts
of  securities fraud  in a scheme to obtain nonpublic information
about technology companies for his clients that operated from
2008 to 2010.  Prosecutors in the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara alleged that Kinnucan “befriended” employees of public
technology companies, obtained nonpublic information from them
and passed the information to his fund manager clients.  He paid his sources in a variety of ways, prosecutors said,
“including paying for their meals at high-end restaurants and
shipping them expensive food, providing them with confidential
information about other technology companies and industry trends
and providing them stock trading advice and tips.”  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara, declined to comment
on a plea. Kinnucan’s lawyer, Jennifer Brown, didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment. Martin Feely, a supervisory
special agent with the FBI’s New York office, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message left at his office after business
hours seeking comment on Kinnucan’s case.  For more, click here.  Ex-Carlyle Consultant Seeks Probation for Insider Trading  Former A.T. Kearney Inc. partner Sherif Mityas asked to be
sentenced to only probation for trading on information he
learned as a consultant to the  Carlyle Group (CG)  about the private
equity firm’s 2010 purchase of vitamin maker NBTY Inc.  Mityas, who pleaded guilty in March to one count of
securities fraud, filed a memorandum in Brooklyn, New York,
federal court requesting that a judge impose a three-year term
of probation. Federal guidelines point to a sentence of 10 to 16
months in prison, the filing said.  “Mr. Mityas’s history and characteristics along with the
nature and circumstances of the offense paint a picture of a
responsible, middle-aged family man whose mounting financial
stressors led him to make this one foray into criminal
conduct,” his attorney, Eric A. Chase, wrote in the memorandum.  Mityas realized a profit of $25,871 by trading on non-
public information about the NBTY deal. He has agreed to forfeit
that amount, the filing said.  The case is U.S. v. Mityas, 1:12-cr-00133, U.S. District
Court for the Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Compliance Policy  CFTC Proposes Clearing Determinations Under Dodd-Frank Act  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission proposed
which  interest-rate  and credit-default swaps must be guaranteed
by clearinghouses as soon as November to help reduce risk in the
$648 trillion global market.  The proposal approved 5-0 by CFTC commissioners in a
private vote, would require that four types of  interest-rate
swaps  denominated in U.S. dollars, euros, British pounds and
Japanese yen be settled at clearinghouses that stand between
buyers and sellers, according to an agency statement released
yesterday. The measure would govern swaps conducted by companies
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Cargill Inc. Credit swaps in two indexes would face clearing
requirements under the proposal, the CFTC said.  “One of the primary benefits of swaps-market reform is
that standard swaps between financial firms will move into
central clearing, which will significantly lower the risks of
the highly interconnected financial system,” CFTC Chairman  Gary
Gensler  said in a statement.  The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act directed the CFTC and Securities
and Exchange Commission to reduce risk in the market after
largely unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis
that led to the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and
U.S. bailouts of companies including  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  The agencies are striving to meet an end-of-year
deadline set by Group of 20 member nations to bolster oversight.  The CFTC has 90 days to complete proposed determinations,
which may lead the first swaps to face mandatory clearing in
late October or early November. Clearinghouses operated by  CME
Group Inc. (CME) ,  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and LCH.Clearnet Group
Ltd. guarantee swaps. The proposal will be open for 30 days of
public comment.  The measure would require clearing of credit swaps tied to
North American and European indexes. Clearing wouldn’t be
required for tranches of credit indexes.  The CFTC may later decide to require clearing for energy,
agricultural and equity indexes, the agency said.  In a separate 5-0 vote, CFTC commissioners approved a rule
governing when banks and other firms must comply with clearing
requirements. The rule requires swap dealers to be first among
firms required under Dodd-Frank to clear swaps.  FDIC Issues Creditworthiness Rule for Savings Banks’ Investments  The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. approved a final
rule yesterday to put new risk limits on corporate bonds in
which federal and state savings associations can invest.  A savings bank isn’t allowed to invest in a corporate bond
when the issuer can’t show it’s able to meet financial
commitments for the security’s projected life, according to the
rule approved by FDIC directors in a written ballot. The new
standard replaces the use of credit ratings, which were banned
from federal regulations by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  “The FDIC does not expect the final rule to change the
scope of permissible corporate debt securities investments,”
the agency said in  guidance  issued about the rule, which goes
into effect Jan. 1. If a bond worked as an investment under the
old system, “a bond with similar default probabilities will be
permissible under this rule.”  On June 26, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
approved a new standard for national banks that similarly
jettisoned the use of credit ratings. Also by Jan. 1, OCC-
regulated national banks will need to use a combination of
internal analysis, third-party research and analytics that use
external credit ratings in order to conclude a security is
investment grade, the OCC said.  Overstated credit ratings contributed to the 2008 financial
crisis, leading U.S. lawmakers to require regulators stop using
them.  SEC Said Poised to Make Companies Report Business With Warlords  Companies would have to disclose whether they buy metals
from central African warlords under a rule the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission is poised to adopt next month, said a
person with knowledge of the agency’s deliberations.  The so-called conflict minerals rule is opposed by the two
Republicans on the five-member commission, according to the
person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions leading up the Aug. 22 vote are private. The rule
has sparked two years of debate since the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
mandated that the SEC impose the rule, with some business groups
railing against the costs of tracking thousands of suppliers
through every link of a chain that leads to their source mines.  Once the rule is in place, the agency estimates 6,000
publicly traded companies -- mostly manufacturers and retailers
-- must report to the SEC where they get their tin, tantalum,
tungsten or gold. The rule is meant to halt the flow of mining
money to those committing atrocities in the  Democratic Republic 
of Congo by pressuring manufacturers to protect their
reputations -- not by issuing an outright ban on using the
conflict metals.  The offices of Republican commissioners Troy Paredes and
Daniel Gallagher, didn’t respond to messages seeking comment on
the vote.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  The metals are in virtually any device with an on-switch.
Electronics firms such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  use most or all of the
metals, and the rule would also affect jewelry makers such as
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , aerospace companies such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  American Apparel
Inc. (APP)  Since it was proposed by the SEC, the rule has drawn about
40,000 public comment letters.  For more, click here.  In the Courts  JPMorgan Agrees to Settle ‘Check Loan’ Contract Litigation  JPMorgan Chase & Co. agreed to pay $100 million to settle
credit-card holder claims that the bank increased their required
minimum payments after promising a fixed interest rate.  The accord resolves a class action, or group lawsuit, filed
on behalf of 1 million cardholders pending in federal court in
San Francisco. The $100 million settlement fund represents about
one-half of the up-front transaction fees cardholders paid on
their credit card loans, lawyers for customers said in a court
filing Monday.  A trial in the case was scheduled to begin this month,
according to the filing.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based
JPMorgan, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking
comment on the settlement.  The case is In Re: Chase Bank USA, N.A. “Check Loan”
Contract Litigation, 09-2032, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Francisco).  JPMorgan, Citigroup, Other Banks Can’t Move $2 Billion TMST Suit  Banks including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
sued for $2 billion by Thornburg Mortgage Inc., lost a bid to
move the case from  bankruptcy court  to district court.  The trustee for what is now TMST Inc. accused the banks
last year of extracting more than $700 million of margin and
interest payments from the former Thornburg by making
“unjustified” margin calls. The banks, including  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  and UBS AG, or their
affiliates, said three of the 31 counts involved allegations of
breach of contract and fraudulent conveyance, which a bankruptcy
judge can’t rule on.  U.S. District Judge Benson Everett Legg told them in a
written order on Monday that the bankruptcy judge can still
uncover the facts and send his findings to a district judge,
even if the banks are right in arguing that “that the
bankruptcy court lacks final adjudicatory authority.”  The bankruptcy case is Thornburg Mortgage Inc., 09-17787,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Maryland (Baltimore). The
lawsuit in bankruptcy court is Joel Sher v. JP Morgan, 11-
ap-00340, and the district court case is, 12-cv-00157.  For more, click here.  New Oriental Sued by Investors After SEC Investigation Disclosed  New Oriental Education & Technology Group Inc. (EDU) , China’s
largest private-education provider, was sued by investors in its
U.S. shares after the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
began investigating the company.  The  American depositary receipts  fell 57 percent over two
days after New Oriental said July 17 that the SEC was probing
the consolidation of its units’ financial statements. The plunge
capped nine consecutive trading days of declines, the ADRs’
longest losing streak since the Beijing-based company’s initial
public offering in 2006.  Investors in the ADRs, led by Kin Shing Wong, are seeking
compensatory damages for the stock losses and class, or group,
status for the suit filed Monday in federal court in the Central
District of California. The investors cited a July 18 research
report alleging that New Oriental inflated cash balances to
obtain approval from its auditor.  The report, by Muddy Waters LLC, also questioned whether
New Oriental could consolidate its operations, because the
Chinese schools conducting lessons are ultimately state-owned.  The case is Wong v. New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc., 12-cv-06316, U.S. District Court, Central District
of California.  For more, click here.  Ex-McKinsey Consultant Banki Won’t Serve More Prison Time  Mahmoud Reza Banki, the former McKinsey & Co. consultant
whose conviction for violating a trade embargo with Iran was
partly reversed, won’t serve any more time in prison.  Banki, who was confined for 22 months since his arrest in
January 2010, was sentenced to no prison and no supervised
release in a hearing yesterday before U.S. District Judge Paul
Engelmayer in Manhattan. Engelmayer sentenced Banki on two
counts of making false statements about money transfers he
received from Iran. Banki was ordered to pay a $5,000 fine.  In an agreement reached with the U.S. last month,
prosecutors agreed not to retry Banki on counts of violating the
Iran trade embargo, operating an unlicensed money-transfer
business and conspiracy to commit those crimes, which were
reversed by the federal appeals court in New York.  Iran-born Banki, a naturalized U.S. citizen, was initially
sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison following a  jury trial  in New
York. He was initially accused of running a “hawala,” or
informal money transfer business, that moved money to and from
Iran in violation of the U.S. embargo.  He received about $4.7 million from transfers and used the
money to buy a $2.4 million condominium, invest in securities
and pay bills, the government alleged.  As part of his deal with the government, he agreed to
forfeit about $710,000.  The case is  U.S. v. Banki, 10-cr-00008, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  U.S. Says New York State Can’t Sue Over Fracking Regulations  The U.S. said a New York State lawsuit seeking fuller
review of the effects of hydraulic fracturing on the state’s
water supply should be dismissed because the multistate
commission responsible for the watershed isn’t a U.S. agency.  The  Delaware River Basin Commission , created in 1961 by New
York and three other states and the federal government, is
responsible for rules governing the natural gas-extraction
process known as fracking. New York sued federal agencies in May
2011 to force a fuller assessment of the environmental impact
that gas development could have its water supply.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Sandra Levy yesterday argued in
federal court in Brooklyn, New York, that the Environmental
Protection Agency and other federal parties sued by the state
don’t have control over how the commission regulates fracking.  “The federal defendants didn’t cause the rules to be
proposed and can’t stop them from being issued,” Levy said. She
also told U.S. District Judge Nicholas G. Garaufis that the DRBC
doesn’t have to comply with U.S. laws that require a fuller
environmental review because it isn’t a federal agency.  New York, arguing that the DRBC is a federal agency,
maintains that it does have a right to sue. The state seeks a
ruling in its favor without a full trial.  The commission says it lacks funds for a full environmental
review even if it was obliged to conduct one. The DRBC is a
compact formed between Delaware, New Jersey, New York and
Pennsylvania and tasked with protecting the water quality in the
Delaware Basin.  The case is New York v. U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, 11-
cv-2599, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Moody’s Settles Lawsuits Over Structured-Finance Ratings  Moody’s Corp. (MCO)  said it reached a settlement with
stockholders in lawsuits filed over structured-finance ratings.  Moody’s agreed to implement new governance procedures to
settle with the Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System and other investors, according to a filing by the New
York-based company yesterday with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. The ratings company didn’t admit
wrongdoing.  The Louisiana pension plan sued Moody’s Chief Executive
Officer  Raymond McDaniel  and other officers in federal court in
Manhattan in 2008, saying they ruined the company’s reputation
by overstating grades for risky mortgage bonds. Moody’s, along
with competitor  Standard & Poor’s , were blamed for helping
inflate the housing bubble by both the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission and a Senate report last year.  None of the Moody’s executives agreed to pay investors any
money in the settlement, according to the filing. Lawyers for
the investors asked the court to approve $4.95 million in fees
and expenses.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System v. McDaniel, 08-09323, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Speeches, Interviews and Testimony  Turner Says BOE Governor Doesn’t Have to Be ‘God-Like’ Figure  Financial Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner , a
potential candidate to run the  Bank of England , said the
institution doesn’t need a “God-like” governor as long as its
policy committees function properly.  “I think we ought to see a lot of the decisions that will
need to be made as coming out of those committees, and subject
to the process of challenging within them, rather than depending
on some sort of God-like, wise leader, whoever you might think
that leader might be,” Turner said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television in London yesterday.  Turner, who is one of the favorites to succeed  Mervyn King 
as governor of the central bank, declined to say who would be
the right person for the role. He said that keeping a check on
the bank’s chief will be necessary given the expanded powers
over financial regulation that King’s successor will wield.  For more, click here.  Cordray Testifies at Hearing About Access to Credit  U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau Director  Richard
Cordray  testified yesterday before a House Oversight and
Government Reform subcommittee about access to credit and the
role of the CFPB. He also said that the agency he heads was
working on rules for each step of the mortgage process.  To see the testimony, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  