-- TPC Group Said to Discuss Buyout of Chemical Maker
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-07-25T20:40:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/tpc-group-said-to-discuss-buyout-of-chemical-maker.html
TPC Group Inc. (TPCG) , the largest producer
of a chemical used in synthetic rubber, is in exclusive talks to
go private in a leveraged buyout that may fetch more than $600
million, said people familiar with the matter.  TPC may get about $40 a share in the deal, which could come
in a few weeks, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the discussions are private. The $600 million doesn’t
include  debt .  A takeover of Houston-based TPC, which used to be known as
Texas Petrochemicals Inc., would represent a bet on continued
scarcity of the rubber component butadiene. The chemical is a
byproduct from making ethylene, and slumping natural-gas prices
in the U.S. have led ethylene producers to use more of the fuel
in the process, which yields less butadiene than other methods.  “They control a third of the North American supply of what
should become a very scarce commodity going forward,” Edward Yang, an Austin, Texas-based analyst at Oppenheimer & Co. who
recommends buying the shares, said today in a telephone
interview. “That gives them a lot of avenues to increase their
earnings.”  Miguel Desdin, a TPC spokesman, declined to comment.  The negotiations come after talks earlier this year, which
involved chemical makers as well as buyout firms, collapsed
following a jump in TPC’s share price, the people said. The
stock had  climbed  43 percent this year through yesterday. TPC
jumped 16 percent to $38.97 in  New York , the biggest gain since
Nov. 30.  Butadiene Market  A takeover at $40 would value TPC, including net debt, at
about 7 times the company’s $126 million estimated  earnings 
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for the
year. That estimate is the average from two analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  TPC competes in the market for butadiene with
 LyondellBasell Industries NV (LYB) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , and Exxon
Mobil Corp. TPC is the best “pure play” in the butadiene
market, Yang said.  The company plans to increase its butadiene output by
refurbishing a Houston plant to make the chemical from butane, a
component of gas that has increased in supply with production
from shale rock formations.  Average contract prices for butadiene climbed 56 percent in
2011 amid tight supplies, according to a company filing.  TPC’s origins date back to a pair of plants built by the
U.S. government to make synthetic rubber during World War II.
The company declared bankruptcy in 2003 amid the collapse in
demand for MTBE, a gasoline additive it produced. It emerged the
following year.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the private-equity firm run
by  Leon Black , disclosed in 2010 that it owned an 8.6 percent
stake in TPC stock. The following year, it said it no longer
owned any shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  