-- Pena Nieto Anti-Corruption Focus Slows Mexican Economy Overhaul
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n   a n d   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-07-25T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/pena-nieto-anti-corruption-focus-slows-mexican-economy-overhaul.html
Two weeks after Enrique Pena Nieto
won  Mexico ’s July 1 presidential election, he unveiled his most
pressing priorities for action. The contrast with his pre-
election agenda was unmistakable.  His first order of business when Congress convenes in
September will be three bills to tackle corruption and increase
transparency in government and media, Pena Nieto wrote in a July
16 column in Reforma newspaper. Proposals to revamp the economy
will be offered “in their own time,” he said, without
specifying when that will be.  This marks a change in emphasis from the campaign, when
Pena Nieto pledged to open the state-run oil industry to outside
investment -- a measure he called his “signature issue” -- and
overhaul tax and labor codes as soon as possible, said  Jorge Chabat  at the Center for Economic Research and Teaching.  “I don’t think any of these economic reforms will be
passed between now and December because the post-electoral
atmosphere won’t permit it,” said Chabat, a political science
professor at the Mexico City-based university. “It’s important
to pass these laws in the beginning, because it’s when
presidents have the most power.”  Pena Nieto’s decision to push first for an anti-corruption
panel, transparency requirements for local authorities and a
citizen watchdog to oversee  government spending  on the media
came amid protests that have brought thousands onto the streets
of Mexico City each weekend since the election. Many are
supporters of runner-up  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , 58, who has
challenged the results, alleging that local officials of the
winner’s  Institutional Revolutionary Party , or PRI, embezzled
public funds to buy millions of votes.  Protests  Protesters against Pena Nieto, 46, the former governor of
Mexico’s biggest state, have sought to revive memories of the
PRI’s 71-year hold on power that ended in 2000 and which they
say was marked by corruption, cronyism and repression.  Pena Nieto, who takes office Dec. 1, beat Lopez Obrador by
6.6 percentage points, about half the margin forecast by most
opinion polls before the election. The PRI failed to win a
majority in either the Senate or the Chamber of Deputies.  While the nation’s top electoral court is unlikely to throw
out the election, Pena Nieto’s attempt to placate his opponents
with anti-corruption proposals risks postponing policies needed
to boost economic growth that  averaged 2.3 percent  over the past
decade, said  Enrique Alvarez  of research firm IdeaGlobal.  “He has to demonstrate that his pledges are more than just
political rhetoric,” Alvarez, the head of Latin America fixed-
income research at IdeaGlobal in  New York , said in an interview.
“If you had a very sharp focus on economic reform and
understood that it was critical for the Mexican economy, you’d
have left politics aside and continued to stress this.”  Investor Optimism  Signs that Pena Nieto may need to delay his economic agenda
haven’t affected investors’ optimism. The  extra yield  investors
demand to own Mexican dollar debt instead of U.S. Treasuries has
fallen 14 basis points since the election to 188, compared to a
gain of 2 points to 210 for Brazilian dollar debt, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  Mexico’s benchmark  IPC stock index  has climbed 9.8 percent
this year, reaching a record on July 17, while the peso’s 1.7
percent advance to 13.7090 against the dollar is the second-
biggest gain among 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  In a May 30 interview, Luis Videgaray, Pena Nieto’s
campaign chief, stressed that the incoming president wants to
ask Congress to approve changes to the constitution to allow
companies to own stakes in  oil fields  before he takes office in
December. In an interview in November, Pena Nieto said such
proposals would be the “signature issue” on which he wanted to
be judged.  No Distraction  The focus on tackling graft won’t distract from the
longstanding goal of overhauling the economy, Pena Nieto wrote
in Reforma.  “While these are my three first bills, my team will also
be working on economic reforms that I promised, and in their own
time, I’ll present them to Congress,” Pena Nieto wrote.  Videgaray said on July 11 in an interview broadcast on
Radio Formula that the transparency legislation will require a
two-thirds vote to amend the constitution. Since the PRI’s
alliance didn’t win an outright majority in either the Senate or
lower house, it would need support from other parties to pass
the measures.  PRI ‘Smokescreen’  The announcement of the measures follows  Lopez Obrador ’s
complaint that the PRI bought millions of votes using pre-paid
supermarket and bank cards. Veronica Juarez, a spokeswoman for
his Democratic Revolution Party, said by phone that Pena Nieto’s
anti-corruption bills are a “smokescreen” and that
transparency efforts should start with clearing up
irregularities in the election.  PRI President Pedro Joaquin Coldwell in turn yesterday at a
press conference accused the PRD of breaking campaign finance
rules to bankroll Lopez Obrador’s run. The PRD has denied the
PRI’s charges, while Coldwell yesterday reiterated that the
PRD’s charges against Pena Nieto’s campaign have no merit.  Josefina Vazquez Mota, 51, the candidate of the ruling
 National Action Party , who finished third, also raised the
ghosts of past PRI misconduct during the campaign. In a June 10
debate, she associated Pena Nieto with a former PRI governor
accused by U.S. prosecutors of taking millions of dollars in
drug cartel bribes, and at a rally the next week she said Pena
Nieto represents “corruption, authoritarianism and surrender
before organized crime.”  Pena Nieto said at a July 18 press conference that while
he’s committed to pushing the economic proposals, he recognizes
the importance of transforming the PRI.  “The party has to modernize, be updated and reform
itself,” he said. “My participation will be ongoing and active
during this process.”  Skepticism  Students who for months marched against the return of the
PRI will have a hard time believing Pena Nieto will keep his
word to boost transparency and fight corruption, said Roberto
Rios Orozco, a representative of the protest movement known as
#YoSoy132, in reference to its origin on Twitter.  “There will be a great push in the media to make us
believe him,” Rios Orozco said. “I like the proposals, but I
don’t think Pena Nieto or the PRI will carry them out.”  Making the fight for government fairness an initial focus
could be a good strategy if it helps unify Mexico’s divided
political parties behind a common purpose, said  Eric Farnsworth ,
vice president of the Council of the Americas in  Washington .
That would help build goodwill for Pena Nieto’s economic
proposals, which will probably be more controversial, he said.  Labor Overhaul  “If his first success is in the realm of anti-corruption,
that’s going to cause critics to be a little circumspect and
give the guy room to operate,” said Farnsworth. “It’s tough to
criticize somebody for doing what you say needs to be done.”  While Lopez Obrador’s legal challenge and the PRI’s lack of
a congressional majority may slow Pena Nieto’s economic agenda,
they won’t prevent him from eventually moving forward, said
 Carlos Ramirez , an analyst with Eurasia Group, a Washington-
based research organization. The labor overhaul, which the
ruling PAN party has proposed in the past, stands a strong
chance of passing this year even with Pena Nieto’s new anti-
corruption focus, Ramirez said.  “It will probably slow it down a bit, but not derail it,”
he said in a phone interview. “Economic reforms have been
waiting for 15 years. They can wait three more months.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net ;
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 