-- PepsiCo Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates on Higher Prices
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-07-25T20:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/pepsico-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-on-higher-prices.html
  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s largest
snack-food maker, reported second-quarter profit that fell less
than analysts estimated after raising prices.  Profit excluding some items was $1.12 a share, Purchase,
New York-based PepsiCo said today in a statement. That exceeded
the $1.09 average of 15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Net
income in the quarter fell 21 percent to $1.49 billion, or 94
cents a share, from $1.89 billion, or $1.17, a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer  Indra Nooyi  raised prices 4 percent
globally in the quarter on top of a 5.5 percent gain in the
first quarter. Nooyi also boosted media spending more than 40
percent in the U.S. to market brands including Doritos, Mountain
Dew and Pepsi-Cola after profit growth slowed last year. Drink
volume sales grew 1 percent as snacks jumped 6 percent.  “They’re doing what other consumer companies are doing,
which is taking price,”  Jack Russo , an analyst for Edward Jones
& Co. in  St. Louis , said today in a telephone interview.  “It
looks like volumes hung in there.”  PepsiCo, also the world’s second-largest soft-drink maker,
rose 2.2 percent to $70.30 at the close in  New York . The  shares 
have gained 6 percent this year.  PepsiCo doesn’t expect surging corn prices caused by the
U.S. drought to affect its commodity costs this year because it
already had locked in prices with forward contracts, Chief
Financial Officer Hugh Johnston said during a call with
reporters. He declined to discuss the outlook for 2013.  Sales Volumes  Second-quarter sales fell 2.2 percent to $16.5 billion
after the company refranchised bottling operations in China and
Mexico.  Food sales volumes jumped 15 percent in  Latin America  and
19 percent in the Africa,  Middle East  and Asia unit. Sales
volume in the PepsiCo Americas Beverages  business  declined 1
percent.  In the U.S., sales of Pepsi brand single-serve beverages at
retail outlets such as  convenience stores  grew “for the first
time in a very long time,” PepsiCo Americas Beverages CEO Al
Carey said today during a conference call. Those sales indicate
efforts to promote the brand are working, he said.  “We are focused on brand building, innovation, execution,
productivity and cash return,” Nooyi said today during the
conference call. “We expect momentum to continue to build as
the year progresses and we are confident in achieving our 2012
goals.”  PepsiCo reiterated its forecast that earnings per share
excluding some costs and foreign-currency effects would decline
5 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  