-- Peregrine Has U.S. Futures Regulators on Defense in Congress
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-07-25T17:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/peregrine-has-u-s-futures-regulators-on-defense-at-house-panel.html
U.S. futures regulators, scrutinized
for missing warning signs before the collapse of Peregrine
Financial Group Inc., defended their oversight to congressional
lawmakers today and called for new rules.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the nation’s
derivatives overseer, identified lapses in financial controls in
at least three reviews of Peregrine since 2000,  Gary Gensler ,
the agency’s chairman, told a House Agriculture Committee
hearing today. Gensler called for new reviews of self-regulatory
organizations, including the  National Futures Association , the
company’s primary overseer.  “The question remains: Who is minding the store?”
Representative Frank D. Lucas, an Oklahoma Republican and
chairman of the panel, said at the hearing. “New regulations
mean nothing when regulators are not enforcing the existing
rules on the books. What we need is regulators doing their
job.”  About $220 million in segregated client money is
unaccounted for at  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based Peregrine, which does
business as PFG Best. Founder and Chief Executive Officer
Russell Wasendorf Sr. was ordered held in custody July 13
following a suicide attempt and a signed confession that he had
defrauded customers for 20 years.  Forged Statements  Wasendorf forged the company’s statements from Firstar
Bank,  US Bank (USB)  and Harris Bank, he said in the signed statement.
He also made forgeries of official letters and correspondence
from the banks, along with trade confirmation statements. He
used photo-editing and spreadsheet software, as well as scanners
and printers, to produce “convincing forgeries” of almost
every bank document.  The commission sued Peregrine over the shortfall on July
10, less than a year after being scolded for poor oversight
following the collapse of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , which left an
estimated $1.6 billion gap in customer funds. The CFTC,
Securities and Exchange Commission and  Justice Department  are
probing the MF Global collapse.  Representative Jean Schmidt, an  Ohio Republican , said the
ultimate responsibility for oversight failures at Peregrine
resides at the CFTC.  “I believe the buck stops with you,” Schmidt told
Gensler. “We can continue to put out more regulations but if
you’re not being the watchdog, the citizens will continue to be
hurt.”  ‘Clearly Failed’  Gensler said the futures-regulatory system “clearly
failed” to protect Peregrine customers. “I think that we have
to take a close look at all that CFTC did to oversee the NFA and
also the markets such as Peregrine,” Gensler said.  The commission reached a settlement with Peregrine in 2000
to resolve allegations that the firm violated capital rules.
Peregrine was ordered to improve its financial controls and
retain an independent accountant to review accounts.  The CFTC relies primarily on NFA and other self-regulatory
organizations as front-line monitors of futures market
participants. In turn, the CFTC oversees NFA and conducts
periodic reviews to ensure the self-regulator is properly
overseeing the industry. The agency also performs limited-scope
reviews of futures brokers. Two such reviews of Peregrine
conducted by the agency in 2007 and 2008 didn’t detect
fraudulent activity.  Limited Reviews  The commission staff in those years reviewed
“classification and reporting of customer-owned securities and
the investment of customer funds,” Gensler said in the
testimony. “The limited reviews identified improperly titled
segregation bank accounts, which were corrected during the
examination.”  The agency is strengthening oversight of self-regulatory
organizations, Gensler said. “I have directed the CFTC’s staff
to do a full review of how the agency conducts oversight of the
SROs” and limited-reviews of futures brokers, he said. “I
believe we need to carefully consider additional rules.”  The NFA has begun a review of internal audit procedures and
how they were used to oversee Peregrine, Roth said. “The simple
fact is that Wasendorf’s forgeries fooled us, and fooled us for
longer than any of us would like,” he said.  The association’s board will consider new rules at an
August meeting that would require futures brokers provide online
access to bank balances for customer funds to their self-
regulators, Roth said.  Clearinghouse Proposal  Terrence Duffy , executive chairman of  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the
world’s largest futures exchange, said a proposal by the company
to house all customer funds at clearinghouses or other
depositories “will be controversial and perhaps have disruptive
consequences,” according to written testimony.  Futures investors have lost money held by the futures
brokers at MF Global and Peregrine rather than by clearinghouses
or clearing member banks. Brokerages often hold excess
collateral in customer accounts, which by law must be kept
segregated from the firm’s own money, and which can be used by
the brokerages to earn interest income.  CME Group said July 23 when it introduced the idea of
housing all customer money away from brokerages that any
interest earned would be returned to the futures brokerages to
maintain a key feature of how the firms earn revenue.  Customer Property  “While it will be controversial and perhaps have
disruptive consequences, we should explore whether customer
property not required as collateral at clearinghouses should,
nonetheless be held by clearinghouses or other custodians,”
Duffy said in testimony prepared for the hearing. He also said
limits on the ability of brokerages to transfer customer
property other than to authorized parties may be needed.  Duffy also said the U.S.  bankruptcy code  should be changed
to allow for the timely transfer of customer money away from a
failed brokerage.  “We propose that Congress amend the bankruptcy code to
permit clearinghouses that hold sufficient collateral to support
customer positions of a failed clearing member promptly to
transfer all customer positions with supporting collateral,
except defaulting customer positions, to another stable clearing
member,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  