-- Peugeot Loses as Much as Government Offers in Auto Aid
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-25T16:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/peugeot-first-half-profit-plunges-on-europe-sales-decline.html
PSA  Peugeot (UG)  Citroen’s automotive
unit lost as much money in the first six months as the French
government plans to plough into the industry to try and protect
automakers from a fifth consecutive year of shrinking sales.  France  will spend about 665 million euros ($807 million) to
bolster the country’s auto sector, protect jobs and build the
“vehicles of tomorrow,” Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg 
said in Paris today, adding the government is making available
to auto-parts suppliers 450 million euros in financing.  “When you spread the amount across the French car market
it does not provide any help to the French manufacturers,” said
Jose Asumendi, a Baader Bank analyst in Unterschleissheim,
 Germany . “Ultimately, what they should let them do is
restructure their operations.”  The French government has raised concerns over Peugeot’s
plans to cut 8,000 jobs and close a factory in Aulnay on the
outskirts of Paris. Peugeot’s auto division posted a first-half
recurring operating loss of 662 million euros, prompting  Fitch
Ratings  and  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Services to lower their
ratings to BB from BB+, or two levels below investment grade.  Fitch “is particularly concerned about the extent of
automobile operating losses and cash burn in Europe, stemming
from falling revenue and structurally poor cost structure,”
analyst Emmanuel Bulle said in an e-mailed statement. “In
addition, contrary to other manufacturers, the group is losing
money in several international markets.”  Cash Burn  Standard & Poor’s said the company is “burning substantial
 cash flow ” with little prospect of reaching credit ratios in
the coming 18 months commensurate with its previous ratings.
Peugeot has been burning through 200 million euros in cash
monthly for the last year, the automaker said this month.  Moody’s Investors Service placed its Ba1 rating on Peugeot,
already junk, under review on July 13, and put the carmaker’s
bank, Banque PSA Finance, on watch for downgrade four days
later.  Peugeot  dropped  16 cents, or 2.5 percent, to 6.08 euros in
Paris trading today. The stocked has slumped 77 percent in the
last year, valuing the French company at 2.16 billion euros.  Operating profit plunged to 4 million euros from 1.16
billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company said.
Revenue fell 5.1 percent to 29.6 billion euros.  Cost Reductions  Peugeot said the restructuring in France, along with lower
 capital spending  in  Russia ,  Latin America  and  China  and its
alliance with  General Motors Co. (GM) , will reduce costs by 1.5
billion euros through 2015. These reductions come on top on a 1
billion-euro savings plan for 2012 announced earlier this year.  “Their cost-reduction plan is called ‘Rebound 2015’ and
this seems a bit late to me,” said Erich Hauser, a Credit
Suisse analyst in  London  with an underperform recommendation on
the shares. “It’s too far out.”  The 116-year-old French manufacturer, which earned 75
percent of revenue in Europe last year, is fighting with the
government over the headcount reduction program. France will
extend a research tax break for the  auto industry , raise
incentives for the purchase of hybrid and electric cars and
provide loans to auto suppliers, Montebourg said today.  “This plan reinvents the French car, with the support of
the government, the manufacturers, the workers, and all the
French people,” Montebourg said at the Paris press conference.
“We want to muscle up the sector.”  Overcapacity  Peugeot’s European factories have been running at 76
percent of their capacity over the first half of the year
compared with 86 percent a year earlier, Chief Executive Officer
Philippe Varin said at a press conference today. The French
automaker has been burning about 200 million euros in operating
cash flow monthly over the last year.  Peugeot first-half car sales in Europe fell 14 percent to
827,163 vehicles, according to the Brussels-based European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association, or ACEA.  Renault SA (RNO) ,
which reports earnings July 27, earlier this month scrapped its
2012 sales-growth target after posting a first-half drop in
deliveries of 3.3 percent. Varin said today he expects the
European market to remain at the 2012 level until 2015.  Net debt as of June 30 fell to 2.4 billion euros from 3.4
billion euros at the end of 2011, the carmaker said today. Free
cash flow was a negative 954 million euros in the first half,
excluding one-time items.  Net Loss  “Management’s assumptions for their plan are a bit too
optimistic,” said Sascha Gommel, a Commerzbank AG analyst in
 Frankfurt  with a hold recommendation on Peugeot. “They’re
basing them on a stable European market until 2015. In the
meantime, unemployment rates in Italy and  Spain  may worsen.”  The carmaker reported a first-half  net loss  of 819 million
euros compared with net income of 806 million euros a year
earlier.  “The depth and persistence of the crisis impacting our
business in  Europe  requires the launch of the reorganization of
our French production base and a reduction in our structural
costs,” Varin said. “We have a clear understanding of how hard
this project is for a large number of our employees.”  Peugeot this year issued 1 billion euros in new stock to
existing shareholders and announced plans to sell 1.5 billion
euros in assets to raise cash and lower its debt load. The
company is planning to sell a majority stake in its profitable
Gefco trucking unit, Luc Nadal, chief executive officer of the
subsidiary, said two weeks ago.  Peugeot plans to close the Gefco sale by September, Varin
said today, adding that no additional asset sales are planned
and that his strategy for  Faurecia SA (EO) , in which Peugeot owns 57
percent, is “unchanged.”  Asset disposals thus far have included the Citer vehicle-
rental unit that the carmaker sold to Enterprise Holdings Inc.
on Feb. 1 for 440 million euros and an agreement announced April
2 to sell Peugeot’s 48-year-old headquarters building in Paris
to Ivanhoe Cambridge for 245.5 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  