-- Philippine Peso Declines as Central Bank Signals Rate Reduction
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-25T08:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/philippine-peso-declines-as-central-bank-signals-rate-reduction.html
The Philippine peso slid to this
month’s lowest level after central bank Governor Amando Tetangco
suggested policy makers may cut  interest rates  tomorrow,
reducing the yield advantage of the currency.  Eleven of the 15 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
forecast the  Philippines  will hold rates at 4 percent, while
four predict a reduction, more than for the June meeting. The
peso has risen 2.6 percent in the past six months, the best
performance among  emerging markets , according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “The central bank has actually hinted it may cut interest
rates,” said Leong Sook Mei, Singapore-based regional head of
global currency research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
“That will be negative for the peso. The run-up on the peso was
too big.”  The peso dropped 0.3 percent to 42.185 per dollar in
 Manila , according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency touched
42.232 today, the weakest level since June 29. One-month implied
volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used to price
options, climbed 50 basis points, or 0.50 percentage point, to
6.5 percent. It was the biggest jump since June 14.  “Our current view is that there is some scope to adjust
monetary policy settings to protect the inflation target on the
downside,” Tetangco said yesterday.  Ten-year government peso notes  yielded  376 basis points
more than similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries, down from this
year’s high of 456 basis points on June 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Philippine central bank cut the rate it pays lenders
for overnight deposits twice this year, by a combined 0.5
percentage point to 4 percent, before leaving it unchanged in
April and June. Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in June from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in three months.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 fell six basis points to 5.58 percent, the lowest level
since the notes were issued in February, according to prices
from Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  