-- Pick a President to Save the U.S. From Greece’s Fate
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-07-25T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/pick-a-president-to-save-the-u-s-from-greece-s-fate.html
The U.S. election of 2012, we
assume, is a nation-defining moment.  If we re-elect President  Barack Obama , we will be endorsing
a more progressive government with more social insurance, higher
tax rates at least on the wealthy and more regulation. If we
elect  Mitt Romney , we will be returning to our post-Ronald Reagan norm of embracing low taxes, economic freedom and
widespread economic disparities.  To make this decision wisely, we need to anticipate not the
rosiest scenarios of each vision, executed perfectly, but rather
the more likely outcomes that will involve far more mediocrity
and near-sighted, short-term political opportunism.  I am an economist, University of Chicago-trained, and I
believe in the economic power of unfettered human ingenuity. At
its best, limited government can produce a torrent of
entrepreneurship that brings great wealth and opportunity. In
the 30 years after Reagan was first elected, real per-capita
gross domestic product in the U.S.  increased  64 percent.  In purchasing-power parity -- an indicator of price-level
differences across countries -- the U.S. adjusted per-capita GDP
is dramatically  higher  than any other large nation’s. It is 28
percent higher than Germany’s and 38 percent higher than
France’s.  American Strengths  The U.S. looks good by comparison when the  International
Monetary Fund  adjusts for purchasing-power parity because
American entrepreneurs from  Sam Walton  to  Jeff Bezos  have made
our nation a bargain hunter’s haven. The work of Enrico Moretti,
an economist at the  University of California , Berkeley, finds
that due to relatively low and stable costs of living in
American lower-wage areas “the increase in well-being
disparities between 1980 and 2000 is smaller than previously
thought.”  In 2011, our ratio of total government spending to GDP was
41 percent, which  remains  low by the standard of other wealthy
countries. This is still 7 percentage points higher than it was
10 years ago. Forty-one cents of every dollar still seems like a
lot.  Since cutting taxes is a lot more fun than cutting
spending, I fear that a return to Republican rule will mean
bigger deficits, not smaller government. From 1980 to 1992, the
ratio of the federal debt (held by the public) to GDP  increased 
from 21.7 percent to 43.3 percent, and the debt-to-GDP ratio
also rose under President  George W. Bush . Voters who want
smaller government, as opposed to just passing the price of
public spending on to their children, should push Romney to be
far more specific about spending cuts.  Moreover, legitimate advantages can come from big
government. The U.S. is a very unequal society, and that seems
unlikely to change with less government. Although the new
health-care law still splits the nation, Medicare is profoundly
popular. Eighty-five percent of Americans want  more regulation 
of  Wall Street , which is understandable since they have seen
financial risk taking lead to substantial public bailouts.  Most important, our schools will get worse, not better, if
we stop using federal dollars to encourage better teaching and
more  charter schools . A  new report  by my Harvard colleague  Paul
Peterson , along with Eric Hanushek and Ludger Woessmann,
examines U.S. test-score gains and finds them “middling, not
stellar.” Yes, they found that “the performance of 4th-grade
students on math tests rose steeply between the mid-1990s and
2011” and that “24 countries trail the U.S. rate of
improvement.” But, they note, “another 24 countries appear to be
improving at a faster rate.” The report also highlights the
continuing disparities across states, which will only expand if
the federal government backs away from education. We are far
from becoming world leaders in human capital.  Europe’s Models  President Obama may stand for a more European approach to
government. In that case, we had better be sure that we are
going to become Germany and not  Greece . The examples of Germany,
the Netherlands and the  Nordic countries  show that robust
economic performance can be combined with a sizable welfare
state, but the current disasters in southern Europe remind us
how easily big government can go awry.  What separates the well-functioning social democracies from
the basket cases? For economies to function, despite high taxes
and generous redistribution, regulation must be limited, and tax
systems must be sensible and fairly flat (such as value-added
taxes). Public spending, especially on education, must be
reasonably effective.  Every big government makes mistakes -- generous public
pensions that start at young ages, subsidies that pay farmers to
leave fields fallow, unlimited health-care promises. Effective
governments are able to abandon mistaken policies that imperil
society, even against the powerful opposition of the favored few
who benefit from the programs.  Sweden  may be the most obvious example of a social
democracy that went too far and reshaped itself. In the early
1970s, Sweden was an economic rock star, but its overregulated,
overtaxed economy lost ground in the 1970s and 1980s and
experienced a crisis from 1990 to 1993. The country responded
with significant reforms, deregulating, privatizing pensions and
moving from vast deficits to budget surpluses. The reforms
weren’t easy -- previously favored companies and workers lost
out -- but the good of the country triumphed over the good of
particular interest groups.  By contrast, Greece is an example of interest-group
dominance enforced by rioting. The country’s labor markets are
too rigid. Its public pensions are too generous. Its tax
collection is ineffective. As the  Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development puts it , “Control over  government
spending  needs to be strengthened by improving administration,
reducing the public sector wage bill, and more strictly
controlling public entities (including in the health system) and
loss-making state enterprises.” Every Greek problem started with
a policy that benefited some powerful interest group; solving
Greece’s problems is hard because those groups still hold
outsize power over the polity.  Ban Boondoggles  Where does the U.S. sit on the spectrum between Sweden and
Greece? Are we good at ending poor policies that favor powerful
lobbies, or are we more like southern Europe, unable to reform
programs that have powerful friends, no matter what the cost?
Our divided political structure produces a legislature filled
with people who need strong allies to get re-elected but who are
not held accountable for the state of the economy. That is a
recipe for interest-group dominance.  If Obama wants a bigger government, he must make the case
that his administration can cut bad programs as well as increase
spending. If he proposed a serious plan to cut Medicare costs,
he would increase his credibility as a champion of the whole
against its parts. If he wanted to convince us that public-works
projects can be sound investments, not boondoggles, he should
have rejected the  recent highway bill  that uses $18.8 billion of
general  tax revenue  to subsidize highway drivers in low-density
states.  A strong, free-market economy, with balanced budgets and a
small but solid safety net, is distinctly attractive. There are
also things to like about countries with bigger, well-run public
sectors. But the real question to ask about our options in
November is which vision will be less bad when it collides with
reality.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Bernanke’s options  and on why
 politics should continue  past the water’s edge;  Caroline Baum  on
 who pays taxes  in the U.S.;  Michael Kinsley  on  positions that
will prove embarrassing  in 20 years;  Ezra Klein  on no easy
answers for  campaign finance ;  Steven Greenhut  on San Francisco’s
arrogant claim to  Yosemite’s water .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 