-- Pioneer Weighs Myanmar Plant as Kyat Cuts Costs: Southeast Asia
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-26T04:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/pioneer-weighs-myanmar-plant-as-kyat-cuts-costs-southeast-asia.html
Myanmar’s kyat, which is weakening
at the fastest pace among Asian currencies, is making the former
dictatorship look more attractive to companies seeking to shift
production.  The currency dropped 1.7 percent in the past month to about
871 per dollar, more than other exchange rates in the region,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg, reducing labor costs in
a country where manufacturers can employ six workers for the
price of one in Guangzhou,  China . Myanmar adopted a managed
float in April, scrapping a 35-year peg, to rein in a surge in
black-market rates that was hurting exporters.  Lower expenses are a key selling point as President Thein
Sein seeks investments to create jobs after a political opening
that saw former prisoner  Aung San Suu Kyi  join parliament,
prompting the U.S. and the European Union to ease sanctions.
Coca-Cola Co., Honda Motor Co. and  Pioneer Corp. (6773)  have said since
the peg ended that they are considering business ventures in the
nation of 64 million people that remains among  Asia ’s poorest.  “Most of the exporters, especially in the labor-intensive
garment industry, wish the currency to be weak, around 900,”
Maung Maung Lay, vice president of the Union of Myanmar
Federation of Chambers of Commerce & Industry in Yangon, said in
an interview on July 23. “The government is trying their level
best to make that happen,” he said, adding the central bank’s
capacity to influence the exchange rate remains limited. Most
employers now pay workers in kyat rather than dollars, he said.  Black-Market Rally  The central bank set the kyat’s  reference rate  at 873
today, compared with 871 yesterday, according to its website.
That level is 6.3 percent weaker than the first daily fixing on
April 2. In the past month,  Indonesia ’s rupiah fell 0.4 percent
and China’s  yuan  declined 0.3 percent, while  Malaysia ’s ringgit
advanced 0.7 percent and  Thailand ’s baht rose 0.4 percent. The
 Indian rupee  climbed 1.7 percent.  Before adopting the managed float system for the kyat,
companies relied on a black-market rate that appreciated from
1,300 in 2006 to about 800 earlier this year. The official rate
of 6.4, pegged to the International Monetary Fund’s special
drawing rights, was available only to state-owned companies and
no longer exists.  “The country’s cheaper costs, including labor and the
foreign-exchange rate, are among elements the company is looking
at in choosing a place for a production base,” Hiromitsu
Kimura, a spokesman for Pioneer Corp., said in an interview on
July 17. The Kanagawa, Japan-based firm makes car-navigation
systems and audio equipment.  Universal Robina  Universal Robina Corp. (URC) , the  Philippines ’ largest snackfood
maker, will open a factory in Myanmar that will complement its
Thai operations in selling into the local market, President
Lance Gokongwei said in an e-mail yesterday.  Laborers in Myanmar’s manufacturing industries earned an
average monthly salary of about 50,437 kyat ($58) last year,
compared with 2,257 yuan ($353) in China’s Guangzhou, 2,297,038
dong ($110) in Hanoi and 8,544 baht ($270) in Bangkok, according
to data provided by the Japan External Trade Organization on its
website. A falling currency makes Myanmar wages and goods
cheaper for foreign companies and overseas buyers.  Some firms are waiting for infrastructure costs to come
down before putting cash into Myanmar. Garment makers are
concerned about inadequacies of electricity, transportation and
telephone networks, according to Willie Fung, chairman of the
world’s largest bra-maker  Top Form International Ltd. (333)   ‘Sketchy’ Answers  About a quarter of Myanmar’s people live in poverty,
agriculture accounts for 70 percent of employment and about
three in four people don’t have access to electricity, the  Asian
Development Bank  said in a report last month. Myanmar has about
18 vehicles for every 1,000 people, compared with 250 in
Indonesia and 370 in Thailand, according to the ADB.  “While the government officials we spoke to all seemed
determined to revamp the economy of the country by bringing in
foreign investments as the catalyst, their answers to many of
our questions were sketchy,” Fung wrote in an e-mail after
participating in a trade delegation to Myanmar last month.  Myanmar is also attractive to manufacturers that want to
diversify geographic risks, according to Vishnu Varathan, a
Singapore-based economist at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd.  “Putting all your eggs in one basket may not be the best
thing,” he said in an interview yesterday. “Myanmar makes
sense given that there have been concerted efforts made to bring
in foreign investments.”  New Investment Law  Myanmar may have a new investment law as early as September
if a joint session of parliament approves the bill, Kan Zaw,
deputy minister of National Planning &  Economic Development ,
said on July 11. The draft law allows investors to lease land
for 50 years, with the possibility of two 10-year extensions, he
said, adding that foreign companies will be guaranteed a level
playing field with local businesses.  Thein Sein has targeted annual growth of 7.7 percent until
2016 as he focuses on the economy after freeing political
prisoners and loosening media restrictions since taking power in
March last year. Suu Kyi, a Nobel Peace Prize winner who won a
parliamentary seat in April by-elections after 15 years under
house arrest, last month called for investments that create jobs
to avoid a “time bomb” of youth unemployment.  President  Barack Obama  eased sanctions against Myanmar this
month, authorizing U.S. companies to invest in the Southeast
Asian nation for the first time in about 15 years. The European
Union had suspended restrictions in April.  Exports  from the Southeast Asian nation increased 19
percent in fiscal year ended March 2011, according to the Japan
External Trade Organization, citing Myanmar government data.
Thailand accounted for 33 percent of the total, followed by  Hong
Kong  at 21 percent, China at 14 percent and  India  at 10 percent.  ‘Hungry for Jobs’  With the second-largest land area in  Southeast Asia  behind
Indonesia, Myanmar’s resources include rubber and natural gas,
as well as deposits of gold, copper and gemstones. Gross
domestic product is projected to increase 6 percent this fiscal
year, compared with 5.5 percent in 2011-2012, according to an
IMF estimate. Myanmar’s fiscal year begins in April.  “The workers are very hard working and hungry for jobs,”
said Willy Lin, chairman of the Textile Council of Hong Kong
Ltd., an umbrella group for most of the city’s garment
manufacturers. “In a year or so, we will see a lot more
investment to the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  