-- Sales of New U.S. Homes Probably Rose to Two-Year High
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/purchases-of-new-u-s-homes-probably-climbed-to-two-year-high.html
Demand for  new U.S. homes  probably
climbed in June to the highest level in two years, economists
project a report today will show, another sign the housing
market is recovering.  Purchases increased to a 371,000 annual rate, the most
since April 2010 and up 0.4 percent from the prior month,
according to the median forecast of 74 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  Record-low mortgage rates and stabilizing  home prices  have
spurred buyer traffic, even as unemployment and strict lending
standards remain obstacles. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among those who say the housing market is one part
of the economy that is improving as other areas cool.  “Some positive developments have unfolded in recent
months, but nevertheless, the sector is merely inching ahead
rather than surging,”  Michael Moran , chief economist at Daiwa
Capital Markets America Inc. in  New York , said in a note to
clients before the report. “On the positive side, the buying
environment has improved considerably.”  The report from the Commerce Department is due at 10 a.m.
in Washington. Economists’  forecasts  ranged from 345,000 to
380,000.  Builders broke ground on 760,000 houses last month at an
annual pace, up 6.9 percent from May and the fastest rate in
almost four years, the Commerce Department reported last week.  Less Pessimism  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 confidence index  climbed 6 points this month, the biggest gain
since September 2002, to 35, another report last week showed.
Nonetheless, readings less than 50 signal mean more respondents
said conditions were poor.  Growth in construction and the “historically low  mortgage
rates ” are among “modest signs” of a housing recovery, even
as some buyers show concern about personal finances and the
broader economy and have difficulty meeting lending standards,
Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee last week.  The  average rate  on a 30-year fixed mortgage loan dropped
to 3.53 percent last week, the lowest in data going back to
1972, according to  Freddie Mac .  “We are seeing different improvements in different parts
of the country, but we’re seeing improvement everywhere,” Larry Nicholson, president and chief executive officer at West Lake
Village, California-based builder  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL) , said on a
June 13 conference call. “So that’s the key there.”  Builder shares have outperformed the wider market this
year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilder Index (S15HOME)  has
climbed 46 percent this year through yesterday, compared with a
6.4 percent gain for the broader  S&P 500 .  Economic Growth  Residential construction hasn’t contributed to economic
growth over the course of an entire year since 2005, when it
accounted for 0.4 percentage point of the 3.1 percent increase
in gross domestic product. From 2006 through 2009, the
homebuilding slump subtracted 0.8 percent point from growth on
average. The declines diminished over the past two years.  Newly constructed houses made up 6.7 percent of the
residential market last year, down from a high of 15 percent
during the boom of the past decade.  Sales of  existing homes  unexpectedly declined in June to an
eight-month low, the National Association of Realtors reported
last week, as banks maintained stricter lending standards.  More purchases of higher-priced properties helped drive up
the median price of a previously owned house by 7.9 percent from
the same time last year, the biggest 12-month gain since
February 2006, the group said.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  