-- Mr. Titanic Mistry Predicts Sinking Palm-Oil Prices: Commodities
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-07-26T20:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/mr-titanic-mistry-predicts-sinking-palm-oil-prices-commodities.html
Dorab Mistry compared the palm-oil
market in 1998 to the Titanic and correctly predicted a slump
from then-record prices the next year. He’s now forecasting
another retreat as weakening demand outweighs a decline in
Malaysian production.  Malaysia , the second-largest grower after  Indonesia , will
reap less than 18.6 million metric tons, at least 2.1 percent
below the  government’s  19 million-ton forecast, according to
Mistry, the director of Godrej International Ltd. who has traded
vegetable oils for more than three decades. Futures may decline
6.3 percent to 2,700 ringgit ($854) a ton by the end of the
year, the lowest since October 2010, unless the U.S. does more
to stimulate growth and boost demand, he said.  “Production has actually underperformed, even worse than I
expected,” as Malaysia’s palms enter a less-productive point in
their cycle after a  bumper crop  last year, the 59-year-old said.
Demand is “just not there,” he said in a July 5 interview at
new offices in Singapore that will become a trading hub for
 Godrej (GDSP)  within five years.  Palm, the most-consumed vegetable oil, already tumbled 21
percent from a 13-month high in April on prospects for record
global production. Prices for the commodity used in everything
from Nestle SA’s Maggi instant noodles and Unilever soaps to
candy bars and biofuels, more than doubled in the past decade as
producers failed to keep up with consumption. There is now
mounting concern about demand as European economies sink back
into recession and growth slows from  China  to  Mexico .  Financial Crisis  The slump since April left futures traded on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange 9.2 percent lower for the year at 2,882
ringgit. Prices tumbled 2.3 percent today, the most in six
weeks. They may decline as low as 2,200 ringgit if there is a
repeat of the 2008 financial crisis, Mistry said in June. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodities fell 1.5
percent since the start of the year, and the MSCI All-Country
World Index of equities rose 3.3 percent. Treasuries returned
3.2 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Global palm consumption almost doubled in the past decade
to 51.7 million tons, or about 33 percent of total demand for
cooking oils, U.S. Department of Agriculture data show. At this
year’s average of 3,218 ringgit, total supply is valued at about
$54 billion. That compares with about $2.5 billion of
outstanding contracts on the bourse in  Kuala Lumpur  and $10.1
billion of open interest in soybean-oil futures traded on the
Chicago Board of Trade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Declining Output  Mistry became known as Mr. Titanic after he compared world
vegetable-oil prices to the ill-fated liner and he says his
speeches at conferences in Kuala Lumpur over the next five years
were preceded by Celine Dion’s theme song from the 1997 movie.  He predicted in 1998 that the country’s palm production
would decline on reduced yields caused by El Nino, a weather
pattern that can parch parts of  Asia . Output dropped 8.3 percent
to 8.32 million tons, the first decline in four years, Palm Oil
Board data show. Prices climbed to a then-record 2,562 ringgit
in May that year, before plunging 74 percent by February 2001.  The Indian-born trader, now based in  London , has also got
it wrong. He said in 2011 that palm would advance to 4,000
ringgit by June this year because of declining output in
Indonesia and Malaysia. Prices peaked at 3,628 ringgit in April
and the subsequent slump prompted Mistry to reverse his
predictions and become bearish.  “He is normally on the extreme side on either up or
down,” said  Ben Santoso , a Singapore-based analyst at DBS
Vickers, the brokerage unit of DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest bank, who has attended the annual palm
oil conference in Malaysia since 2001. “Nevertheless, we have
to take consideration of what he said, the reasoning that he put
out and see whether we’ve missed something.”  Margarine Use  While Mistry says his forecasts have a 70 percent success
rate, he discounts those other analysts might consider accurate.
He said in February 2008 that prices would reach 4,500 ringgit.
In the four days after his speech, futures jumped 16 percent to
4,486 ringgit before retreating to a three-year low of 1,331
ringgit in October. He says that was “a big failure” because
he had predicted a gradual advance over the year.  After the crash, his best trade was buying palm stearin,
derived from oil and used for products such as margarine. He
said prices would rally because the U.S. would intervene to halt
the rout. The  Federal Reserve  bought $2.3 trillion of debt in
two rounds of so-called quantitative easing from December 2008
to June 2011. Palm futures more than doubled as the GSCI
commodity gauge rose about 90 percent.  Kalimantan Plantations  The Singapore office on the 24th floor of a 50-storey
skyscraper will be the regional trading hub for Godrej
International Trading and Investments Pte, a unit created in
2010. The company, which Mistry plans to visit once a month,
will also oversee about 20,000 hectares (49,400 acres) of land
owned with local partners in Indonesia’s Kalimantan, 20 percent
of which is already planted.  Godrej is investing in plantations to reduce its reliance
on suppliers. The group uses vegetable oils for products
including its Cinthol soap, sold in  India  since 1918, and to
supply its Godrej Industries Ltd. unit, which makes chemicals.
The Godrej Group based in  Mumbai , which started in 1897 as a
lock manufacturer, is led by Indian billionaire Adi Godrej.  Mistry was born in the western Indian state of Gujarat in
1953, moving with his family to Mumbai three years later. He
attended Bombay University and later qualified as an accountant.
Since moving to the U.K. with Godrej in 1977, he has been part
of the 5,000-strong community of Zoroastrians, who follow an
ancient monotheistic religion founded in Persia.  Zoroastrian Role  As a past president of the Zoroastrian community in  Europe ,
Mistry counts the mother of Freddie Mercury as one of his
friends, although he never met the singer of rock band Queen,
who died in 1991. He was a guest at Queen Elizabeth II’s Golden
Jubilee celebration in Westminster Abbey in 2002.  As a self-described “one-man research team,” Mistry
tracks weather patterns as well as supply and demand. His
sources include the plantation industry and data from the USDA
and Oil World, a Hamburg-based research company. The married
father of three speaks at conferences about five times a year.  “Most people do realize that it’s a tough job and it’s
brave of someone to openly speak about prices,” Mistry said.
“They also know it’s a market: you can’t be right 100 percent
of the time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  