-- RadioShack Sinks After Suspending Dividend, Posting Loss
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-07-25T20:11:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/radioshack-sinks-after-suspending-dividend-posting-loss.html
RadioShack Corp. (RSH) , the electronics
chain with 7,000 locations, tumbled the most in more than five
months after ending its dividend and posting an unexpected loss
as more sales of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone ate into margins.  The shares  fell  29 percent to $2.60 at the close in New
York for the biggest decline since Jan. 31. The stock has
declined 73 percent this year.  The net loss totaled $21 million, or 21 cents a share,
compared with a profit of $24.9 million, or 24 cents, a year
earlier, the Fort Worth, Texas-based retailer said in a
statement. Analysts  projected  profit of 4 cents a share, the
average of 19 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We have little confidence in RadioShack’s ability to earn
a profit stream given their, and our, inability to see this
coming,”  David Schick , an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in
 Washington , wrote in a note to clients today. Schick downgraded
RadioShack to hold from buy.  The company said it is suspending its dividend to pay debt.  Gross margin, or the percentage of sales left after costs
of goods sold, narrowed to 37.8 percent from 45.9 percent a year
earlier.  iPhone Hurts Margins  Selling more lower-margin iPhones was the main reason for
the decline in gross margin, Chief Executive Officer James Gooch
said on a call with analysts. A year ago, RadioShack sold
iPhones with  AT&T Inc. (T)  service plans and has since added devices
tied to  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) 
Gross margin will remain under pressure in the third quarter and
may stabilize in the fourth, Gooch said.  Revenue in the quarter rose 1.2 percent $953.2 million,
trailing the $970.3 million average of analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Same-store sales at U.S. company-owned
locations were little changed.  The cost to protect against a default by RadioShack jumped
to a record after reporting the loss. Credit-default swaps on
RadioShack climbed 4 percentage points to a mid-price of 36.5
percent upfront, according to data provider CMA, which is owned
by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market.  The increase means the cost to protect $10 million of the
company’s debt jumped to $3.65 million initially and $500,000
annually for five years, from $3.25 million upfront.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  