-- RadioShack Credit Swaps Surge to Record After Unexpected Loss
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-07-25T21:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/radioshack-swaps-jump-to-record-after-unexpected-quarterly-loss.html
The cost to protect against a
default by  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  jumped to a record after the
electronics retailer reported an unexpected second-quarter loss.  Credit-default swaps on  Fort Worth , Texas-based RadioShack
climbed 4.8 percentage points to a mid-price of 37.3 percent
upfront, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by
McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. The increase means the cost to
protect $10 million of the company’s debt jumped to $3.73
million initially and $500,000 annually for five years, from
$3.25 million upfront yesterday.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded RadioShack’s long-term issuer
default grade to CCC from B-, citing a decline in profitability
that “has become progressively more pronounced over the past
four quarters.”  The company ’s net loss of $21 million, or 21
cents a share, in the three months ended June 30 compared with a
$24.9 million profit a year earlier. Analysts on average had
 estimated  the retailer would have a profit of 4 cents a share,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “There is a lack of stability in the business and no
apparent catalyst to stabilize or improve operations,” Fitch
analysts led by Philip Zahn in  Chicago  and Monica Aggarwal in
New York wrote in a statement today. “Sharp declines in  cash
flow , together with the expected repayment of the $375 million
of convertible notes maturing in August 2013, will materially
reduce the company’s financial flexibility.”  Best Buy  RadioShack swaps jumped even as the cost to protect against
defaults by speculative-grade companies fell from the highest in
almost a month. The default premium on the Markit CDX North
America High Yield Index fell 2.3 basis points to 613 basis
points after earlier rising to as high as 618.4, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg. The measure, which rises as
investor confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, had
reached the highest since June 29.  Investors use the benchmark to hedge against losses on junk
debt or to speculate on creditworthiness.  Credit-default swaps tied to Best Buy Co. jumped, adding
1.7 percentage points to 15.4 percent upfront, CMA data show.
The world’s largest electronics retailer is struggling to
compete with the likes of Amazon.com Inc., Apple Inc. and Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. In March, Best Buy reported a $1.7 billion
fourth-quarter loss and said it would close 50 big-box stores.  Dividend Suspended  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  RadioShack will reduce its debt-to-equity ratio by
refinancing about half of its $375 million of 2.5 percent
convertible notes due August 2013, “with the balance paid down
with excess cash,” Jim Gooch, RadioShack’s president and chief
executive officer, said in the statement. The company suspended
its dividend to free up cash, he said. RadioShack had $517.7
million of cash at the end of the quarter, $392.5 million
available under a revolving credit facility and $679 million of
long-term debt, according to the statement.  “We were disappointed in our gross margin rate
performance, as the initiatives we have under way have not yet
generated enough momentum to improve the trend,” Gooch said in
the statement. “Our primary operating focus continues to be on
stabilizing gross margins and aggressively managing our cost
structure.”  Margin Pressure  RadioShack’s $324.8 million of 6.75 percent bonds maturing
in May 2019 dropped 8.75 cents to 65.75 cents on the dollar at
4:27 p.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
They’ve fallen from 90.25 cents in January.  Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after costs of
goods sold, narrowed to 37.8 percent from 45.9 percent a year
earlier. Costs of goods rose 16 percent from a year ago as  sales 
gained 1.2 percent.  Selling more lower-margin smartphones contributed to the
decline in gross margin, including a higher mix of Apple’s
iPhone, and will continue to pressure margins in the third
quarter and, “to a lesser extent,” the fourth quarter, Gooch
said in a conference call with investors and analysts.  A gauge of U.S. investment-grade debt fell after earlier
climbing for a fourth day amid comments by European Central Bank
council member Ewald Nowotny that sparked speculation the
region’s permanent bailout fund would be given more firepower to
fight  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Investment Grade  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index fell
1.1 basis points to 115.4 basis points after earlier rising to
as high as 117.3, Bloomberg data show.  Investors are concerned the European Stability Mechanism
may not have enough cash to aid Spain or  Italy  if a bailout’s
required, accelerating financial turmoil in global markets and
hampering companies’ ability to repay debt. Nowotny said
yesterday there are arguments in favor of giving the fund access
to European Central Bank lending.  The ESM currently has access to 500 billion euros ($607
billion) in funds. Spanish 10-year bond yields surged this week
to a euro-era record above 7.6 percent, prompting concern that
the country may need a full-scale rescue in addition to as much
as a 100 billion-euro bailout already granted to its banks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  