-- Rato Is Grilled on Bankia as Pensioners, Investors Suffer
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-07-26T15:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/rato-called-to-explain-bankia-as-pensioners-prostitutes-suffer.html
Rodrigo Rato  was grilled in Spain’s
parliament over the bailout of Bankia group, deflecting blame
for Spain’s biggest banking collapse, which has put funding for
Alzheimer’s patients at risk and spelled losses for investors.  Rato, a former managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund  who led the seven-way savings bank merger in 2010
that formed Bankia, appeared today before lawmakers probing how
the lender that was nationalized last month after seeking 23.5
billion euros ($28.5 billion) of state aid helped trigger a new
stage of  Europe ’s debt crisis. Rato, Bankia’s ex-chairman, said
the government pressured him to push ahead with an initial
public offering in which retail investors lost money and said
the Bank of  Spain  encouraged the merger.  “We did the right thing, in collaboration and under the
control of the corresponding public regulators, supported by the
advice and supervision of auditing and consultant firms,” Rato,
63, told the committee, punctuating his speech with deep breaths
and gulps of water.  The collapse of the  Bankia group , Spain’s third-biggest
lender, has sparked public outrage as the country assesses the
wider impact of a bailout that helped lead the nation to seek as
much as 100 billion euros in European rescue loans. As well as
hurting junior debt investors and other customers who bought
shares last year in an IPO, the group’s collapse will be felt by
vulnerable Spaniards who were relying on it to generate funding
for  social spending  programs as the economy shrinks.  ‘Sleepless Nights’  Rato told the hearing the government never gave final
approval to his 7 billion-euro cleanup plan for  Bankia. (BKIA)  He said
the Bank of Spain in 2010 encouraged him to expand his six-way
merger to include Bancaja, another savings bank that was heavily
exposed to the property boom on Spain’s Mediterranean coast.  “You have created many problems for many people and have
caused sleepless nights and direct ruin for hundreds of
thousands of people,” Irene Lozano, a deputy of the Progress
and Democracy Union party, told Rato in the hearing. “Are you
going to say sorry or not?”  “Everyone has assumed their responsibilities, and I assume
mine,” Rato said. He told deputies that they shouldn’t
underestimate the scale of the damage caused by Spain’s economic
slump, the worst since the 1930s.  Donations Decline  Spain’s cajas, savings banks that distribute a share of
their profits for social and cultural activities, spent 1.12
billion euros on such programs in 2011, a 23 percent drop from
the previous year. Their social spending in 2008 was about 2
billion euros, according to the savings bank association, known
as CECA.  “What happened is a scandal because there was no
control,” Noelia Rodelgo, an administrative director at an
 association of families  of Alzheimer’s patients in the town of
Torrejon de Ardoz that has gotten help from Caja  Madrid , one of
the group’s founding savings banks, said in an interview. “If
there’s no money from the caja, it’s going to be harder to pay
for what we do.”  Rato is among 24 officials, including former socialist
Economy Minister  Elena Salgado  and ex-Bank of Spain Governor
Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez, called to appear in congress on
the banking crisis. The testimony before the economic affairs
committee came as protests mount over the cost of bailing out
lenders, including Bankia, and the 110 billion euros of
government measures to cut spending, raise taxes and shrink
public wages over three years.  Bankia’s Roots  A former economy minister in the government of Jose Maria Aznar who helped lead Spain into the euro, Rato is also among 33
board members included in a Bankia investigation by a National
Court judge.  Rato led the formation of Bankia in 2010 by combining Caja
Madrid with Valencia-based Bancaja and five smaller lenders to
create a company with more than 300 billion euros of assets,
almost a third the size of  Spain’s economy .  Rato wasn’t to blame for the poor credit control that sunk
Bankia because most of the loans were made before he took over
as chairman in 2010, said Lorenzo Bernaldo de Quiros, an
economist who served on a panel that advised Rato when he was
economy minister. Even so, he made a mistake by including
Bancaja, a lender exposed to the building boom on the
Mediterranean coast, in the merger, he said.  “He was blinded by the desire to be big and didn’t
understand the scale of the problems at Bancaja,” de Quiros
said in a phone interview.  Share Sale  The group hived off its banking business into Bankia SA,
which raised more than 3 billion euros with a share sale aimed
at its own branch customers. The  shares  have since lost more
than 80 percent of their value, while holders of  subordinated
debt  also widely sold through the branch network face capital
losses under the terms of Spain’s banking bailout.  Meanwhile, the founding savings banks held stakes in a
parent company, Banco Financiero y de Ahorros SA, which
controlled Bankia after the IPO. Dividends from BFA were
supposed to finance the social spending done by the cajas
including  Caja Madrid , which in 2010 spent 100 million euros on
such activities.  That model fell apart last month when the government took
ownership of all BFA’s stock after finding it had a negative
valuation of 13.6 billion euros. The move wiped out the cajas’
stakes in BFA and also revenue for the former lenders including
Caja Madrid, founded 310 years ago by a priest named Francisco
Piquer, to fund loans for the destitute and masses for the dead.  ‘Dead End’  Bancaja, the second-biggest shareholder in BFA, posted a
557,000-euro loss in 2011 and predicts pretax profit for 2012 of
about 2 million euros. Those numbers compare with its profit
peak of 796 million euros in 2006 at the height of Spain’s
lending boom. Bancaja, which has about 90 million euros of
reserves, will spend about 28 million euros on social and
cultural spending this year, down from 85 million euros in 2008.  “We have maybe four years to keep funding social spending
as we use up our reserves,” Jose Camarasa, a Bancaja board
member, said in an interview. “After that it’s a dead end.”  The collapse in social spending by the former Bankia
savings banks will be felt in Torrejon de Ardoz, a suburban
Madrid town, where the Alzheimer’s support group that Rodelgo
helps run relied on donations such as a 6,000-euro grant in 2010
to equip patients’ homes with handrails, said Rodelgo.  Our Lady of Montserrat Foundation, which runs a senior
citizens home for 97 people, will also be hurt. The foundation
had relied for years on Caja Madrid to fund repairs and therapy
programs, Director Mari Cruz Hidalgo said in a phone interview.  Regional Cutbacks  Caja Madrid has also contributed since 2002 to Medecins du
Monde, which runs a fleet of mini-buses providing  medical
attention  to prostitutes, said Guillermo Algar, a spokesman for
the group. The organization distributed 210,187 condoms in 2011,
according to a  statement  on its website.  The blow to the social spending is especially painful
because Spain’s national and regional governments are also
paring their budgets, said Juan Jose Toribio, a professor at the
IESE business school, and a former head of finance policy at the
 Economy Ministry  in 1977, when it drafted a law governing the
savings banks. The  Madrid region  is seeking to cut spending and
boost revenue as it commits to reducing its  budget deficit  to 1
percent of its gross domestic product from 1.5 percent this year
as part of a government austerity drive.  For the former savings banks now bereft of their main
revenue source, the future may lie in converting into
foundations or selling assets to find new income, said Toribio.
Bancaja’s art collection includes more than 5,000 paintings,
including works by the Valencian artist Joaquin Sorolla, and
engravings by  Pablo Picasso .  “It’s not for me to enter into a personal judgment on what
happened at Bankia, but there must be a process of explanation
and reflection on everything that happened,” Toribio said in a
phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  