-- Treasury 10-Year Note Falls Amid European Bailout Speculation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-07-25T21:29:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/treasuries-fall-on-bailout-speculation-u-s-sells-5-year-notes.html
Treasury 10-year notes fell,
snapping a three-day advance, as speculation that European
policy makers will boost the firepower of their bailout fund
damped demand for the safest assets.  Yields on the benchmark note rose from all-time lows after
European Central Bank council member Ewald Nowotny said there
are arguments in favor of granting the region’s rescue fund a
banking license, giving it access to ECB lending. Yields on
five-, seven- and 30-year Treasuries also touched record lows
for a third day. The U.S. sale of $35 billion in five-year notes
was the second auction in two days to draw a record yield.  “There is middling hope that European policy makers are
making positive steps,” said  Adrian Miller , a fixed-income
strategist at GMP Securities LLC in  New York . “Still, the
market continues to accept negative real returns as a result of
the heightened anxiety about Europe and domestic growth, and as
such demand continues.”  The  yield  on the 10-year note rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.40 percent, at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader Prices. The 1.75 percent note
due in May 2022 fell 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000 face amount,
to 103 7/32. The current five-year note  yield  rose one basis
point to 0.55 percent. The yield on the 30-year bond was little
changed at 2.45 percent.  Volume, Volatility  Treasury trading volume reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , was $189.6 billion
at 4:01 p.m. in New York, trading below the $240 billion average
this year.  Volatility was little changed today at 63.1 basis points,
close to the lowest since May 10, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index. It dropped to a five-year low of
56.7 basis points on May 7, and has averaged 75.2 basis points
this year, touching a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on June 15.
It reached a record high of 264.6 basis points in October 2008
as the financial crisis intensified. The index measures price
swings based on options.  The five-year notes yielded 0.584 percent at today’s
auction, compared with a forecast of 0.582 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of nine of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21
primary dealers. The previous low auction yield was 0.748
percent in May.  The  bid-to-cover  ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.71,
compared with an average of 2.96 for the previous 10 sales.  Bidder Participation  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 42.6 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 44.3 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct bidders , non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 5.2 percent of
the notes, the lowest since November 2009. The average at the
last 10 auctions was 10.9 percent.  Five-year notes have returned 2.3 percent this year,
compared with a 3.2 percent gain for the broader Treasury
market, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Today’s note offering was the second of three this week
totaling $99 billion. The Treasury sold $35 billion in two-year
debt yesterday at a record auction low yield of 0.220 percent,
drawing almost record demand. It will sell $29 billion of seven-
year bonds tomorrow.  ‘Still Demand’  “Selling the auction at record yields reflects the fact
that there is still demand for Treasuries given the domestic and
international uncertainties that continue to persist,” said
 Scott Graham , head of government-bond trading in  Chicago  at  Bank
of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets unit, which as a primary
dealer is required to bid on the securities. “Globally, we
continue to look very cheap to the rest of the world of safe
assets, despite the rally we’ve seen.”  Valuation measures show U.S. sovereign securities are close
to the most costly levels ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the Fed, dropped yesterday to negative
1.023 percent, the all-time most expensive. It was at negative
1.0 today. A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  Treasuries fell as the euro rose for the first time in six
days today against the dollar and the yen after comments from
the ECB’s Nowotny on a banking license for the European
Stability Mechanism, or ESM.  “There are pro arguments” for giving the ESM a banking
license, Nowotny, who heads  Austria ’s central bank, said in an
interview in his office in Vienna yesterday. “There are also
other arguments, but I would see this as an ongoing
discussion,” he said, adding he’s “not aware of specific
discussions within the ECB at this point.”  ‘Well Supported’  Granting a banking license to  Europe ’s permanent bailout
fund would give it access to ECB lending, easing concerns that
the ESM’s 500 billion-euro ($607 billion) cash reserves won’t be
enough if Spain or  Italy  require aid.  Investors in futures that track the Fed’s benchmark
interest rate are betting that policy makers meeting next week
will say they are prepared to keep rates unchanged until at
least mid-2015.  The implied rates are below 0.5 percent for every maturity
of fed funds futures traded on the Chicago Board of Trade, which
lists contracts as far out as June 2015. The Fed has held the
target rate for overnight loans at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008 and pledged to keep it “exceptionally low” at
least through late 2014.  “There are not enough Treasuries for the demand,” said
Justin Lederer, an interest-rate strategist in New York at
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, a primary dealer. “There are so many
concerns domestically and abroad that Treasuries remain well
supported. There are a lot of issues on the horizon that are
seeing very little improvement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  