-- Republicans Considering Stopgap Budget Bill, DeMint Says
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-25T20:27:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/republicans-considering-stopgap-budget-bill-hoyer-says.html
Some Republican lawmakers who have
insisted on deep budget cuts said they will agree to a $1.05
trillion stopgap measure to fund the U.S. government.  Senator  Jim DeMint , a South Carolina Republican, said he
and other Tea-Party backed Republicans would back the $1.05
trillion measure to fund the government for about six months
into fiscal year 2013 even if it means agreeing to higher
spending levels.  “Republicans don’t want to shut the government down,
particularly conservatives,” DeMint said today in an interview.  Representative  Jim Jordan  of  Ohio , chairman of the
Republican Study Committee, said he would support such a measure
even if the group proposed  government spending  at less than $1
trillion.  The Republican-led House and the Democratic-led Senate face
the inevitable prospect of extending government funding through
a stopgap measure, known as a continuing resolution, because
Congress hasn’t agreed on any spending bills for the 2013 fiscal
year that starts Oct. 1.  Senate leaders have pressed for a $1.05 trillion funding
level, which was agreed to under last year’s legislation known
as the Budget Control Act to increase the nation’s debt ceiling.
House Republicans have demanded less spending that amounts to an
additional $19 billion in cuts in discretionary spending, woven
into their annual budget.  Six-Month Measure  DeMint said today that he and other Tea Party-backed
lawmakers have told House Speaker  John Boehner  they could
support a six-month spending bill at levels agreed to in last
year’s debt-limit law to avoid a fight over government funding
in a post-election session.  “The levels are not as important now,” DeMint said,
adding that it was more important to deprive Senate Democrats of
leverage they could gain by using a stopgap measure during the
post-election lame-duck session as a vehicle for “a lot of
other bad legislation.”  Meanwhile, Jordan, the chairman of the Republican Study
Committee, “is open to supporting a short term” continuing
resolution “that gets us past the lame-duck session” and
doesn’t spend more than the levels in the Budget Control Act,
said Meghan Snyder, Jordan’s press secretary.  ‘Lame-Duck’  “We can stomach that,” said Representative Tim Huelskamp,
a freshman Republican from  Kansas . “Let’s get the budget done
for six months and then see what happens in the election. To
have a lame-duck Congress and, potentially, a lame-duck
president deciding that -- I think most Americans would say
‘No.’”  Representative Mick Mulvaney, a South Carolina Republican,
said in addition to backing a six-month measure he would be
willing to drop demands that the legislation bar funding for the
administration’s health-care overhaul.  Representative  Steny Hoyer , the House’s second-ranking
Democrat, said today Republicans are prepared to accept that
funding level as a “pragmatic judgment.” If Republicans are
perceived as shutting down the government, “it would hurt them
badly at the polls,” Hoyer of  Maryland  said at a breakfast
sponsored by the Christian Science Monitor.  Neither Boehner of Ohio nor Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, have publicly discussed the
length or funding level for the stopgap measure. Both leaders
have yet to iron out differences among their caucuses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  