-- Reynards Brings Mezzo Hotel Dining to Brooklyn: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/reynards-brings-mezzo-hotel-dining-to-brooklyn-review.html
The signage for the brand-new  Wythe
Hotel  lights up Williamsburg in a shade of red that evokes Kenny
Rogers Roasters.  If you’re not from New York, it probably will be your point
of entry into  Brooklyn . Reynards, the ground-floor restaurant,
may be your first culinary experience in King’s County.  Dinner might begin with guinea hen, the leg braised into
musky tenderness and paired with a puree of peas sweet as
whipped cream. That’s on a good night.  Another time, you might encounter an unremarkable duck leg
with chanterelles, a bland and chewy beef tartare ($15) or a
one-note gazpacho ($8) that delivers, in order of appearance,
vinegar, acid and heartburn. Canteloupe and feta salad? It’s
fine, it’s forgettable.  This isn’t enough reason to cross the  East River  (or even
leave another part of Brooklyn). It’s safe for tourists in
search of deviled eggs minus any weird beef hearts or tripe to
scare away the innocent masses.  That’s another way of saying Reynards will be somewhat of a
disappointment after a $20 cab ride from  Manhattan . More
ambitious, adventurous fare can be had at Billyburg spots like
Brooklyn Star and Gwynnett St.  Quirky Glory  Reynards captures all of Wythe Avenue’s quirky glory, with
reclaimed wood ceilings to attract the natives. Here are women
in long pants and men in short shorts. There might be fiddle
music playing unobtrusively in the background. Still, one
expects a certain amount of comfort. The seats lack cushions and
the bar stools offer no back support.  Beverage director Lee Campbell has put together a  lovely
list  of mostly French, off-the-beaten-path wines that range from
approachable (a crisp, $11 Thierry Puzelat from the Loire), to
adventurous (a $14 Franck Peillot sparkling rose with plenty of
fruit and yeast).  One can drink either of these with a pork pate ($10) that
tastes like any other served anywhere in the city.  Champagne selections start at $78 and then jump to $110.
That’s not too shabby considering that $90 is often the starting
point for proper bubbly around town.  Begin with seafood toast, a briny, metallic mix of clams
and mussels over garlicky aioli. Or put in for rock shrimp
panzanella ($15), perfumed with brown butter. That maritime
salad incorrectly comes with blackberries, which you can send
back to the kitchen when you’re done.  No Steaks  New Yorkers  jaded by the inevitable $125 ribeye or $52
strip steak will find solace at Reynards, where there wasn’t a
single steak on the menu on two of my three visits (a $29
sirloin might appear from time to time). Beef eaters can make do
with the $16 burger, a French onion soup slider of sorts with
assertively salty gruyere and a sweet pile of onion.  Reynards finds the time and money to print out its menus on
a daily basis, but can’t manage to update those offerings on its
website. So call ahead for individual items, as they change
significantly from day to day.  Order the duck breast whenever it appears, as the kitchen
knows how to render out the fat and keep the gaminess in check.  A Nicoise salad ($23) has too much fennel, but the softness
of olive-oil poached tuna exacts immediate forgiveness. And
grilled bluefish, with its clean oils, reminds us how much we
loved this local denizen before mackerel started flooding our
menus.  The grilled pork chop is the game-changing entree. Expect a
medium-rare cut, paired with smoky corn, hot blueberries and a
slick of tangy ricottas. Finish with luscious olive oil cake and
peaches.  Rating: * 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Most dishes under $25.  Sound Level: Average, around 70-75 decibels.  Date Place: Not at the bar, where your back will ache.  Inside Tip: Excellent burger.  Special Feature: The Wythe’s rooftop bar has great views.  Back on My Own Dime: Nah.  Reynards is at 80 Wythe Avenue, near North 11th Street,
Williamsburg. Information: +1-718-460-8000;
 http://www.wythehotel.com .  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on television and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on tech.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 