-- Troika Bank Focus May Delay Cyprus Bailout, Business Groups Say
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s
-- 2012-07-25T14:12:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/troika-bank-focus-may-delay-cyprus-bailout-business-groups-say.html
Cyprus, the fifth euro area member
to request an international rescue, may have to wait several
months before it receives a bailout from the so-called troika of
the  International Monetary Fund , the European Commission and the
 European Central Bank , business groups said.  “They pay a lot of attention to the recapitalization of
the banks,” Michael Pilikos, director general of the  Cyprus
Employers and Industrialists Federation  told reporters in
Nicosia today, after meeting representatives of the so-called
troika. “They told us it is an issue they have not reached any
conclusion yet and may need some months to investigate. It is a
very complicated issue and their venture will not be that
easy”.  Phidias Pilides, chairman of the Nicosia-based  Cyprus
Chamber of Commerce and Industry  who was also a participant in
the meeting, said that delegates of the troika visiting the east
Mediterranean island for the second time since it asked for a
bailout on June 25, will need time to establish the “exact
magnitude of the problems of the banks”.  Cypriot banks lost more than 4 billion euros ($4.9 billion)
in  Greece ’s debt restructuring earlier this year. The government
of the island, the euro area’s third-smallest economy which was
shut out of markets more than a year ago, had to rescue second
largest lender Cyprus Popular Bank PCL in May by underwriting
its 1.8 billion euros capital increase.  On June 27,  Bank of Cyprus Plc (BOCY) , the island’s largest
lender, also requested 500 million euros in temporary aid to
meet regulatory requirements.  “We are not going to have a memorandum before October,”
said Pilides, adding that the troika delegates did not mention
any timetables. “Every delay causes worsens the situation of
the economy considerably”.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  