-- Romney Shouldn’t Let Politics Stop at the Water’s Edge
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-25T19:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/romney-shouldn-t-let-politics-stop-at-the-water-s-edge.html
So, how would  Mitt Romney  have the
U.S. balance its concerns about  Russia , its “number one
geopolitical foe,” and  Iran , “the most severe security threat
facing America and our friends”?  That was one of several strategic mysteries that the
presumptive Republican presidential nominee left unresolved in
his speech Tuesday to the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Reno,
 Nevada . On Wednesday, Romney begins a trip to the U.K., Israel
and  Poland , intended in part to burnish his foreign policy
credentials. For the sake of U.S. voters and the world, he
should feel free to use the trip to further explain his views --
and to criticize President  Barack Obama ’s.  What was most striking about Romney’s address was the
extent of congruity between his positions and Obama’s on places
such as  Afghanistan , Iran and even  China , which Romney had
earlier declared he would immediately brand a currency
manipulator (a pledge he has quietly, and wisely, softened in an
accompanying policy  manifesto ).  Two of the Romney speech’s sharpest criticisms of Obama,
over leaks of classified information and defense-spending cuts,
seemed less like useful distinctions than disingenuous political
attacks.  Did the leaks of classified material about the killing of
 Osama bin Laden , the target selection for drone attacks and the
foiling of an airplane bombing plot -- all foreign policy
successes -- deserve more space than any other issue? No.
Romney’s call for a special prosecutor to investigate them is
likewise misguided. In this case, it would be overkill: No
administration publicly endorses such leaks, yet every
administration engages in them, and they occasionally serve a
public good by increasing the transparency of government
actions.  On defense spending, Romney unfairly blamed Obama for the
huge automatic cuts in the  Pentagon’s budget , which were part of
the debt-ceiling compromise both parties in Congress agreed on
last summer. Romney’s charge that there was no “serious military
rationale” on Obama’s cuts could equally be applied to his own
call for a floor under U.S. defense spending of 4 percent of
gross domestic product. That sounds more like corporate welfare
for defense contractors than a rational national-security
policy.  Romney would do well to explain the impact of his ambitious
military spending plans -- increasing the Navy’s shipbuilding
rate from nine to 15 ships a year, for example -- on other areas
of the U.S. budget. “Pay any price, bear any burden” rhetoric is
cheap; but its actual cost, as attested to by the parlous fiscal
state of the U.S. after more than a decade of war, is not.  Romney says he will not “question American foreign policy”
while touring another country. There’s no reason he could not,
as other candidates have before him, set out his vision of how
to advance security, freedom and prosperity. In fact, one of the
more telling criticisms of Obama today is the contrast between
the better, more hopeful world he laid out as a candidate in his
2008  speech  in Berlin and the overly cautious half-steps he has
taken to achieve it.  More broadly, it’s time to retire the hoary convention,
more breached than observed, that “politics stops at the water’s
edge.” People forget that when Senator Arthur Vandenberg
delivered that chestnut in the late 1940s, he was arguing not
that road-tripping politicians should keep their mouths shut but
that Democratic and Republican party leaders should not seek to
exploit foreign policy issues for political gain.  These days, that goal is more impossible than noble.
Foreign policy is no longer the province of two parties and an
apolitical elite -- if ever there was one -- but of a raucous
rabble of interest groups, corporations, nonprofit
organizations, faiths and diasporas competing for attention and
influence. To sort through that cacophony, plain old citizen
voters need the benefit of honest, detailed information and
vigorous debate. Let’s hope the candidates give it to them --
whether at home or abroad.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 