-- Russian Billionaire Sees Jail Risk as Putin Smothers Dissent
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-26T08:06:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/russian-billionaire-defies-jail-threat-as-putin-muzzles-dissent.html
Russian billionaire newspaper owner
 Alexander Lebedev , who backs the opposition movement, expects to
go to jail as President  Vladimir Putin  cracks down on the
biggest protests against his rule.  Lebedev, 52, who has  $1.2 billion  in assets according to
Forbes, with interests in banking and media including U.K.
newspaper the Independent, has been the subject of a three-year
campaign to drive him out of the country, he said in a July 24
interview in his office in a Moscow mansion. He faces potential
criminal charges for a brawl with another businessman last year.
His National Reserve Bank is under central bank investigation.  Putin, 59, who returned to the Kremlin for a six-year term
in May, is cracking down on the opposition after tens of
thousands of Russians took the streets to protest alleged fraud
in parliamentary and presidential elections. Lebedev is the
highest-profile businessman to oppose the Russian leader since
jailed former Yukos Oil Co. owner  Mikhail Khodorkovsky , who’s
serving 13 years in prison under two separate convictions.  Changing Things  “They can put me in jail, destroy my business,” Lebedev
said. “Why should I emigrate? I was born here. And I want to
change things. Why should I give into threats, blackmail and
defamation? I won’t.”  The 30-stock Micex Index climbed for a second day, adding
0.6 percent to 1,376.09 as of 10:56 a.m. in Moscow. Russia’s
benchmark gauge trades at five times estimated earnings, having
lost 1.9 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of 9.3
times for companies in the MSCI Emerging Market Index, which has
dropped 0.7 percent this year. Russian equities have the
cheapest valuations based on estimated earnings among 21
 emerging markets  tracked by Bloomberg.  Lebedev’s other businesses include the London-based Evening
Standard newspaper and Russia’s  Novaya Gazeta , a newspaper that
campaigns against corruption. He’s also financing the anti-graft
drive of Alexey Navalny, a leader of the protests who was
elected last month to the board of state carrier OAO Aeroflot
after Lebedev proposed him as an independent director. The
billionaire owns 15 percent of Aeroflot.  National Reserve Bank lost a third of its consumer deposits
in the first quarter of 2012 after the central bank investigated
its finances last year and again from February to April. In
November 2010, masked police raided the bank’s headquarters.
Lebedev said almost all of his businesses are subject to tax and
other inspections.  Stifling Dissent  “This is a full-scale campaign,” Lebedev said. “I don’t
have any doubts that they’ll file charges against me. Someone
has decided that I am the main sponsor of the opposition. The
authorities want to liquidate all dissent. They don’t want
protest meetings, opposition groups or independent media.”  Lebedev is a former lawmaker in Russia’s lower house of
parliament and a KGB officer who worked at the Soviet Embassy in
 London  during the  Cold War . Apart from Aeroflot and the National
Reserve Bank, his holdings include stakes in construction,
property and agriculture companies as well as a budget airline,
 Red Wings .  Together with former Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev ,
Lebedev co-owns  Novaya Gazeta . Five reporters for the newspaper
have been killed since 2000, including  Anna Politkovskaya , shot
in the head in her Moscow apartment building on Putin’s birthday
in 2006. Politkovskaya’s work alleged corruption under the
Russian leader and abuses by security forces in the mainly
Muslim region of Chechnya.  No Wars  The government “isn’t waging any wars on honest
business,” Putin’s spokesman,  Dmitry Peskov , said by phone
yesterday.  Lebedev’s “participation in political life couldn’t be a
reason for that,” Peskov said. “If he is accusing some
government bodies of illegal actions, he should inform us.”  The businessman in February published  open letters  to Putin
and then President  Dmitry Medvedev , who now heads the Russian
leader’s Cabinet, asking them to intervene to stop the “bandit
raid” on his bank.  In November 2010, after the armed search of his bank’s
headquarters, Lebedev sent 25 letters to Russian leaders and
agencies -- including Putin, Medvedev, the Prosecutor General’s
Office and courts -- asking them to stop police from interfering
with his businesses.  Tighter Controls  The government has made it more difficult for opposition
groups to operate by tightening controls over Internet use and
regulating foreign-funded non-government organizations more
strictly. It raised fines on unsanctioned protesters 150-fold
and made libel a criminal offense.  Police have questioned Navalny and another opposition
leader, Sergei Udaltsov, on charges of inciting mass
disturbances and violence against officials during a protest on
the eve of Putin’s inauguration that ended in clashes with
police, a crime punishable by as much as 10 years in jail.  “We are definitely entering a period of political
repression,” Navalny’s chief fundraiser, Vladimir Ashurkov,
who’s solicited financial help from Lebedev and other wealthy
donors. Lebedev’s bank announced this month that it will  issue a
bank card  with 1 percent of all transactions going to Navalny’s
Anti-Corruption Fund.  ‘Squeeze Liquidity’  The central bank is an “instrument that operates in the
vertical of power,” Lebedev said, adding that its aim is to
“squeeze liquidity” at his bank and possibly seek to remove
its license.  The central bank “is confident it made the correct
assessment” during its probe of Lebedev’s bank, First Deputy
Chairman Alexei Simanovsky said in an e-mail yesterday. “I
can’t remember a single case in which the regulator and bank
agreed on all issues.”  Russia  is the  world’s most corrupt major economy , according
to Berlin-based Transparency International’s 2011 Corruption
Perceptions Index. The country was ranked 143rd among 182
countries, alongside  Nigeria .  Russian investigators opened a criminal case for
hooliganism against Lebedev after a physical altercation with
property developer Sergey Polonsky during a television show on
Sept. 16, 2011.  Polonsky, speaking at a pre-recorded show on the global
economic crisis, pointed at other guests including Lebedev
saying that he “felt like punching somebody in the face.”
Lebedev sprung to his feet first asking Polonsky whether he was
“out of his mind” and then hit him, knocking the former
property tycoon off a stool.  ‘Threatened, Insulted’  If convicted of a criminal charge, Lebedev faces as long as
five years in jail.  “There’s nothing to investigate,” Lebedev said. “I was
threatened and insulted. Maybe I overreacted, but I certainly
didn’t go onto television to attack some innocent person. It’s
absurd. I have better things to do. I never attacked anyone
before.”  The spat drew attention from Putin, who branded it as
“hooliganism” at a Sept. 21 meeting with his All-Russia
People’s Front, state-run news service RIA Novosti reported.
Lebedev, who joined the Putin supporters’ movement last year in
an attempt to ease the pressure on him, said he will quit the
front.  “They can’t expel me but in order not to compromise such a
wonderful organization, I will resign from it soon,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  