-- RWE Delays Decision on Innogy Nordsee Wind Farm Until 2013
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   T i n o   A n d r e s e n
-- 2012-07-25T12:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/rwe-delays-decision-on-building-innogy-1-wind-farm-until-2013.html
RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest
utility, postponed a decision on whether to build the Innogy
Nordsee 1 offshore wind farm until 2013 as it waits for the
government to set out who will pay for any connection delays.  RWE is waiting for legislation “that compensates us for
damages linked to possible delays in the grid connection,” said
Barbara Woydtke, a spokeswoman for RWE’s Innogy renewable-energy
unit. RWE “needs to see a draft bill,” she said by phone from
Essen. The company had originally planned to decide this year.  The country this month agreed to draft a bill in the summer
to compensate operators for delays in connecting turbines to the
 power grid . RWE and EON AG threatened to halt investment because
of problems including delays in gaining approvals, and acquiring
cables and transformer stations. RWE postponed its decision on
what may become a  1-gigawatt farm  at the Nordsee development.  While the company began foundations for the 295-megawatt
Nordsee Ost project in  Germany ’s part of the  North Sea , it can’t
install turbines until there’s a grid link.  “If the wind park can’t work, it costs us 100 million
euros ($121 million) a year,” Rolf Martin Schmitz, RWE’s deputy
chief executive officer, told reporters on June 27 in Berlin.  EON is committed to investing in its Amrumbank West project
and start building the 288-megawatt farm next near, Christian Drepper, a company spokesman, said today by phone. EON said in
February that Amrumbank West would be delayed for 15 months.  While grid connection “is a problem,” Drepper said, EON
is “optimistic because the federal government has identified
the problem and we expect it to solve it in the fall.”  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s government plans to operate 25
gigawatts of turbines in German waters by 2030 to replace
nuclear reactors shuttered by 2022. Handelsblatt reported the
RWE delay earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  