-- Sales of New U.S. Homes Decrease From Two-Year High: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-25T20:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/sales-of-new-u-s-homes-unexpectedly-fall-from-two-year-high.html
Sales of  new U.S. homes  unexpectedly
dropped in June from a two-year high, a sign the market is being
held back by a lack of inventory after builders curtailed
projects.  Purchases fell 8.4 percent to a 350,000 annual rate, the
weakest since January, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . The  median estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of 74
economists was 372,000. The decline was led by a record plunge
in the Northeast, where the number of properties available last
month was the fewest for any June.  “A dearth of construction has led to a very significant
inventory shortage,” said  Carl Riccadonna , a senior U.S.
economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New York , who
forecast sales would drop to a 345,000 rate, the lowest of those
surveyed. “If you want to buy a newly built home, good luck
finding one.”  Record-low  mortgage rates  and stabilizing  home prices  have
spurred buyer traffic, even as  unemployment  and strict lending
standards remain obstacles for the industry that precipitated
the last recession. Among companies betting that construction
will pick up is  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , which today raised its full-
year earnings forecast on improving sales of excavators,
scrapers and dozers as builders replace aging equipment.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index ended little changed,
erasing gains in the final hour of trading, as disappointing
results at Apple Inc. and the unexpected decline in new-home
sales overshadowed a rally in banks and industrial shares. The
500 Index was at 1,337.89 at the 4 p.m. close in New York, down
less than 0.1 percent from yesterday. The S&P Supercomposite
Homebuilding Index dropped 3.2 percent.  U.K. Shrinks  Elsewhere, the  Office for National Statistics  in  London 
today said the U.K. economy shrank 0.7 percent in the second
quarter from the prior three months, the most since 2009.  Bloomberg survey estimates for U.S. new-home sales, which
are counted when contracts are signed, ranged from 345,000 to
380,000. The May reading was revised up to a 382,000 pace, the
highest since April 2010, from the previously estimated 369,000,
while April and March were also boosted from prior estimates.  “There’s one down month, but I think we’re still in an
uptrend,” said Bob Baur, chief global economist at Principal
Global Investors in  Des Moines ,  Iowa . “Housing has clearly
bottomed.”  Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar, the largest maker of
construction and mining equipment, is considered an economic
bellwether. Sales rose 22 percent in the second quarter from the
same time last year, the company said today.  ‘Economic Challenges’  “We understand the world is facing economic challenges,
and if it becomes necessary, we are prepared to act quickly as
we did in late 2008 and 2009” during the last recession, Chief
Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said in the statement.  Purchases decreased in two of four U.S. regions last month,
today’s Commerce Department report showed. Demand slumped 60
percent in the Northeast, and fell 8.6 percent in the South. The
Midwest and West registered gains.  The number of newly constructed houses on the market was
little changed at 144,000 from a record low of 143,000 reached
in May. The record high of 572,000 was reached in July 2006. The
supply of new houses on the market at the current sales pace
increased to 4.9 months from an almost seven-year low of 4.5
months in May.  There were 17,000 new houses available for sale in the
Northeast in June, according to Commerce Department data that is
unadjusted for seasonal variations, the fewest for the month in
records going back to 1973.  Little Inventory  “The homebuilding sector has been shut down for about five
years, so there’s no inventory to buy,” said Riccadonna. “If
we want to take the temperature of the housing market, probably
the worst series to look at is new home sales.”  Builders broke ground on 760,000 houses last month at an
annual pace, up 6.9 percent from May and the fastest rate in
almost four years, the Commerce Department reported last week.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 confidence index  climbed 6 points, the biggest gain since
September 2002, to 35 this month, another report last week
showed.  Today’s Commerce Department report showed the median sales
price of a new house decreased 3.2 percent in June from the same
month last year to $232,600.  For companies like  Sherwin-Williams Co. (SHW) , gains in housing
translate to more sales as home buyers decorate their new
properties.  ‘Positive’ Metrics  “Housing sales are picking back up and housing volumes are
improving, those are all really positive market metrics to
sustain growth in this business,” Christopher Connor, chairman
and chief executive officer of the Cleveland-based paint
manufacturer, said on a July 19 earnings call.  Builder shares have outperformed the wider market this
year. The S&P Supercomposite Homebuilder Index has climbed 46
percent this year through yesterday, compared with a 6.4 percent
gain for the broader  S&P 500 .  Residential construction hasn’t contributed to economic
growth over the course of an entire year since 2005, when it
accounted for 0.4 percentage point of the 3.1 percent increase
in gross domestic product. From 2006 through 2009, the
homebuilding slump subtracted 0.8 percent point from growth on
average. The declines diminished over the past two years.  Newly constructed houses made up 6.7 percent of the
residential market last year, down from a high of 15 percent
during the boom of the past decade.  Existing Homes  Sales of  existing homes  unexpectedly declined in June to an
eight-month low, the National Association of Realtors reported
last week, as banks maintained stricter lending standards and
cheaper distressed properties remained competitive.  More purchases of higher-priced properties helped drive up
the median price of a previously owned house by 7.9 percent from
the same time last year, the biggest 12-month gain since
February 2006.  Sustained lows for mortgage rates may hold up the market.
The  average rate  on a 30-year fixed loan dropped to 3.53 percent
last week, the lowest in data going back to 1972, according to
 Freddie Mac .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among those who
say the housing market is one area of the economy that is
improving as other areas cool.  Growth in construction and “historically low mortgage
rates” are among “modest signs” of a housing recovery, even
as some buyers show concern about personal finances and the
broader economy and have difficulty meeting lending standards,
Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  