-- San Francisco Needs a Free Market, Not Free Water
-- B y   S t e v e n   G r e e n h u t
-- 2012-07-25T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/san-francisco-needs-a-free-market-not-free-water.html
San Francisco  officials routinely
lecture the rest of the U.S. about public health and the
environment as they enact laws that, for example, ban  McDonald’s (MCD) 
Happy Meals and require businesses to compost their trash.  But when it comes to doing something that would advance a
noble public goal -- the conservation of  California ’s  most
valuable  natural resources -- these same moralizers can be
shockingly conventional in their attitudes.  Consider their response after a group called the  Yosemite
Restoration Campaign  collected enough signatures to put a
measure on the Nov. 6 ballot that asks San Franciscans to
approve a study on the removal of one of the most controversial
dams ever built, the O’Shaughnessy Dam in Yosemite National
Park, and for the restoration of the Hetch Hetchy Valley. The
initiative would force city officials to figure out a plan for
replacing water supplies lost by eliminating one of nine dams
controlled by the San Francisco public utility.  In 1913, Congress authorized the construction of the only
major dam in a national park, with the aim of providing water
and hydroelectric power for San Francisco, about 200 miles to
the west. The vote reportedly broke the heart of John Muir, the
founder of the  Sierra Club , who  argued  that Hetch Hetchy’s
beauty rivaled that of the Yosemite Valley. This was a battle
with national implications -- the  New York  Times  editorialized 
against it six times in 1913.  Liberal Hypocrites  You would think San Francisco’s environmentally friendly
Democratic officials would want to undo this history. Yet the
initiative’s qualification for the ballot is opposed by the
mayor and all 11 members of the Board of Supervisors. U.S.
Senator  Dianne Feinstein  and House Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi ,
both California Democrats, are longtime foes of restoring the
valley.  “San Francisco Mayor Ed Lee is right,” the San Francisco
Chronicle editorialized on July 9. “The proposed ballot measure
to require the city to draft a plan for draining the Hetch
Hetchy reservoir is ‘insane.’ It’s also dangerous, misleading
and an absolute waste of money.” The newspaper pointed to the
dam’s production of “about 300 megawatts of carbon-free
hydroelectric power for the  Bay Area .”  The Sacramento Bee, which has championed the restoration of
Hetch Hetchy,  found  the Chronicle’s argument ironic: “In the
past, San Francisco environmentalists and the Chronicle have
supported river restoration efforts on the Trinity and Klamath
Rivers, even if hydropower generation was reduced. Could it be
that San Franciscans are fine with sacrificing energy generation
for environmental benefits, so long as their energy isn’t being
touched?”  That’s a reasonable conclusion. The proposed study’s $8
million cost is nothing by San Francisco standards. (Many of the
same politicians who express concern about the potential
billion-dollar costs of removing the dam and the uncertainty of
federal funding are championing a  high-speed-rail project  with a
far higher price tag and equally uncertain resources from
 Washington .)  Some conservative Republicans, such as U.S. Representative
Dan Lungren, are vocal supporters of reclaiming Hetch Hetchy.  “If tomorrow, Disney would announce that they are going to
build a second Yosemite Valley for $2 billion or $10 billion,
people would marvel at it, and they’d say, ‘What a great idea,
to give us a sense of this beautiful valley,’” Lungren  said. 
“Well, doggone it, God’s already given it to us.”  Federal Subsidies  Political opponents of Lungren, who represents Sacramento’s
suburbs and parts of the Sierra foothills, say he is using the
issue to position himself in his tight re-election race against
an environmentalist Democrat. Likewise, in 1987, critics saw
cynical motives when President  Ronald Reagan ’s interior
secretary, Don Hodel -- a conservative with a history of
promoting Western resource development -- announced support for
restoring Hetch Hetchy.  But there was little evidence to doubt Hodel’s sincerity.
Hodel, as Carl Pope  wrote  in Sierra magazine at the time, was an
advocate for expanding public enjoyment of national parks. Many
conservatives are conservationists, and it’s absurd to believe
that centrally planned, taxpayer-funded water projects were in
keeping with  free-market  principles.  Thanks to subsidies and to the federal  Army Corps  of
Engineers and the Bureau of Reclamation, farmers in the Southern
California desert still grow water-intensive crops such as rice
and cotton. The construction of the Hoover Dam was seen in its
day as a giant make-work project. In that vein, MSNBC
commentator  Rachel Maddow  recently celebrated that dam as
evidence of the value of big-government public works.  Even if it was necessary, a lot of what followed encouraged
waste and ruin. As Chris Edwards of the libertarian  Cato
Institute  said in response to Maddow, “Hoover Dam was built by
the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation, an agency with an appalling
history of environmental damage and support of boondoggle
projects. For most of the 20th century, the agency ran amok
pouring concrete in every river system in the West, and in the
process destroying wetlands and salmon fisheries. The
government’s Corps of Engineers has a similar record of
environmental damage and economic miscalculation on its big
infrastructure projects.”  There’s much to debate about the wisdom of actually busting
the O’Shaughnessy Dam. The estimated cost of restoring the Hetch
Hetchy Valley ranges from $3 billion to $10 billion and would be
its own make-work project. The debt-soaked federal government
can’t pay for this. The state’s population continues to grow
and, if anything, more water storage is needed, not less.  Market Value  Yet the costs and benefits of removing the dam should be
analyzed, which is basically what the San Francisco measure
would authorize, if it is approved by voters.  The best reason for the plan is that it would remind
Californians that the biggest assault on the environment has
come from government, not the private sector. Maybe a serious
look at the history of the O’Shaughnessy Dam will spark a needed
discussion on how a more competitive system can better meet the
state’s water needs and protect the environment in the future.
Why should San Franciscans be exempt from learning the true
value of a precious limited resource?  ( Steven Greenhut  is vice president of journalism at the
Franklin Center for Government and Public Integrity. He is based
in Sacramento. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Bernanke’s options  and on why
 politics should continue  past the water’s edge;  Caroline Baum  on
 who pays taxes  in the U.S.;  Edward Glaeser  on how the U.S. can
be  more like Sweden and less like Greece ;  Michael Kinsley  on
 positions that will prove embarrassing  in 20 years;  Ezra Klein 
on no easy answers for  campaign finance .  To contact the writer of this article:
Steven Greenhut in  Sacramento  at
 steven.greenhut@franklincenterhq.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 