-- Sanofi Vaccine Thwarts Three of Four Dengue Strains in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-25T08:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/sanofi-vaccine-thwarts-three-of-four-dengue-strains-in-study.html
Sanofi (SAN) ’s experimental shot against
dengue protected against three of the deadly virus’s four
strains in the first test of a vaccine against the most common
mosquito-borne disease.  In a trial among 4,000 children in  Thailand , the vaccine
generated antibody responses against all four strains, but only
protected against three, Paris-based Sanofi said in a statement
today. The drugmaker is analyzing the data in an effort to
understand the discrepancy.  Dengue, endemic in more than 100 countries, has begun to
appear in the continental U.S., with local cases occurring in
Miami last year. The virus afflicts as many as 100 million
people a year, about 20 times the number of serious flu cases,
according to the  World Health Organization . In its worst form,
dengue can cause severe flu-like symptoms and fatal bleeding.  The test results “represent a key milestone” in the quest
to prevent a disease for which there is no specific treatment,
said Michel de Wilde, executive vice president of research and
development at Sanofi’s vaccines division.  The findings come a day after the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  said its inspectors found “significant
objectionable conditions” at Sanofi vaccine plants in Canada
and  France .  Regulators summoned Olivier Charmeil, Sanofi’s head of
vaccines, and other senior executives for a meeting to discuss
the issues, the agency said in a July 12 letter to Charmeil made
public yesterday. The Sanofi Pasteur vaccines unit is taking
steps to address the FDA’s concerns and has confidence in
products made at the facilities, the company said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  