-- HSBC Fined $27.5 Million in Mexican Money-Laundering Probe
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-07-25T17:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/hsbc-fined-27-5-million-in-mexican-money-laundering-probe-1-.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank, said its Mexican unit paid a $27.5 million fine to the
nation’s regulators for non-compliance with money-laundering
systems and controls.  The infringements relate to the late reporting of 1,729
unusual transactions and the failure to report 39 others, the
London-based bank said in a statement today.  HSBC  Mexico  is “aware of the importance of strengthening
compliance and risk management controls for the overall
financial system,” it said in the statement. “It has already
taken actions and invested resources to address the past
failures for which it has been fined.”  HSBC executives have been grilled by U.S. lawmakers this
month over claims that bank affiliates gave terrorists, drug
cartels and criminals a portal into the U.S. financial system by
failing to guard against  money laundering .  The fine is the largest levied by Mexico’s banking
regulator, Guillermo Babatz, president of the National Banking
and Securities Commission, or CNBV, said in an interview
broadcast in Mexico by Radio Red. Other banks operating in
Mexico are being fined for similar reasons, though for lesser
amounts, he said, without providing details.  HSBC has taken steps including closing accounts where there
is “insufficient information” about a customer or if they are
considered “high risk,” the bank said. The unit stopped the
purchase, sale and deposit of U.S. dollars in cash at branches
on Jan. 1, 2009.  The bank paid the fine this morning for “grave”
administrative failures that have since been corrected, HSBC
Mexico’s chief Luis Pena Kegel said in an interview on Radio
Red. The fine hasn’t affected HSBC Mexico’s finances, he added.  “The bank today is very different from the bank that was
subject to fines,” Pena Kegel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 