-- Schaeuble Declares Markets Wrong as Europe Heads to Vacation
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-07-25T14:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/schaeuble-declares-markets-wrong-as-europe-heads-to-vacation-1-.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  declared bond traders all wrong in driving up Spanish
borrowing costs to unsustainable levels.  After issuing the statement late yesterday, Schaeuble, 69,
went off duty for a three-week vacation.  It’s summertime in Europe, and like last year, borrowing
costs are rising as investors fret over the fate of the 17-
nation euro area. Most government leaders are heading to their
favorite beaches, mountains and lakes to take a break from a
crisis that U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  said July
23 requires “immediate, short-term” measures to help Spain and
Italy.  “The markets are clearly very unsettled,” said  Sarah Hewin , London-based head of research in Europe for Standard
Chartered Plc. “We’re in a position now where we’re in the
middle of summer” with no summits and meetings of policy makers
to focus on.  The summer-holiday season in 2011 saw a spasm of turmoil
that forced the  European Central Bank  to step in and buy Spanish
and Italian debt for the first time and required emergency
meetings among policy makers.  Now, Schaeuble and German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who has
left Berlin for her usual two- to three-week break, are
fortified by gains in bunds, Europe’s haven security.  South of France  French President  Francois Hollande  will remain in his own
country in the south. Belgian Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo will
head to Italy next month to the Abruzzo region. Portuguese Prime
Minister  Pedro Passos Coelho  will be on vacation in the first
two weeks of August and will stay in his country, newspaper
 Diario Economico  reported on July 21.  In contrast, Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  currently
has no plans set for a vacation, though his schedule is
currently empty between Aug. 6 and Aug. 17, according to a
spokeswoman for the premier’s office. He may add agenda items in
that time, depending on events, the spokeswoman said.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , whose caretaker
government has less than a year to enact the remainder of his
agenda, plans to take a week in the middle of August, an
administration official said. In Greece, Antonis Samaras isn’t
planning any time off.  “One thing is certain, no one is going away on holiday,
and the prime minister has underlined this,” government
spokesman Simon Kedikoglou said in an interview on Mega TV
today. “The ministers should be at their offices from very
early in the morning.”  Troika in Athens  Samaras, who became prime minister last month, will talk
with Greece’s creditors this week to assess how far from bailout
terms the country has strayed. He will meet with European
Commission President  Jose Barroso  in  Athens  before seeing the
“troika” of officials representing the euro area, the European
Central Bank and the  International Monetary Fund  on July 27.  The temporary vacuum in German leadership leaves investors
looking elsewhere for  crisis management . Spanish two-year yields
fell today for the first time in eight days after ECB council
member Ewald Nowotny revived a debate on bolstering the
firepower of the European Stability Mechanism rescue fund. There
are arguments in favor of giving the ESM a banking license,
Nowotny said in an interview.  Spain’s two-year yield fell 65 basis points, or 0.65
percent, to 6.12 percent at 3:30 p.m. London time, after
climbing to 7.15 percent, the highest since 1996. Yields on
Italy’s 10-year bond declined 10 basis points to 6.47 percent,
about 5.2 percentage points more than the similar maturity
German security.  Repaid in Full  “They clearly need to get Spanish bond yields down,” said
 Gary Jenkins , founder of Swordfish Research Ltd. near London,
who has tracked bond markets for more than 15 years. “There’s
lots of things they can do to get bond yields down, but it’s
more difficult for people to regain confidence that they’re
going to get fully repaid in Spanish and Italian bonds.”  The cost of insuring Spanish debt rose to a record
yesterday on the prospect that Valencia, which said last week it
would tap the central government’s 18 billion-euro ($22 billion)
bailout fund, won’t be the last region to seek aid.  “The current levels of  interest rates  on sovereign debt
markets don’t correspond to the fundamentals of the Spanish
economy,” Schaeuble and Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said in a joint declaration after meeting late
yesterday.  North Sea  Schaeuble is holidaying on the German  North Sea  island of
Sylt near the border with Denmark. While the government has
declined to say where Merkel is on vacation, the country’s best-
selling Bild newspaper reported she will make an appearance at
the Bayreuth Festival to take in  Richard Wagner ’s “The Flying
Dutchman” before traveling with her husband to the Italian
alpine region of South Tyrol, where she holidayed in the past
two years.  Werner Faymann, chancellor of AAA-rated, landlocked
Austria, has returned to Vienna after two weeks on the Italian
island of Sardinia.  Nowotny, also the head of Austria’s central bank, said he
is positioned to mix relaxation with work this summer, and that
his subordinates will do the same.  “I’m in the lucky position of having a summer home in the
lake area of Austria, which also has the advantage of being only
a two-hour drive from Vienna,” Nowotny said in the interview
yesterday in his office in the capital city. “We always have a
fully functioning central bank, but that doesn’t mean that my
staff can’t go on vacation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  