-- SEC Said Poised to Make Companies Report Business With Warlords
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/sec-said-poised-to-make-companies-report-business-with-warlords.html
Companies would have to disclose
whether they buy metals from central African warlords under a
rule the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is poised to
adopt next month, said a person with knowledge of the agency’s
deliberations.  The so-called conflict minerals rule is opposed by the two
Republicans on the five-member commission, according to the
person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
discussions leading up the Aug. 22 vote are private. The rule
has sparked two years of debate since the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act
mandated that the SEC impose the rule, with some business groups
railing against the costs of tracking thousands of suppliers
through every link of a chain that leads to their source mines.  Once the rule is in place, the agency estimates 6,000
publicly-traded companies -- mostly manufacturers and retailers
-- must report to the SEC where they get their tin, tantalum,
tungsten or gold. The rule is meant to halt the flow of mining
money to those committing atrocities in the  Democratic Republic 
of Congo by pressuring manufacturers to protect their
reputations -- not by issuing an outright ban on using the
conflict metals.  The offices of Republican commissioners Troy Paredes and
Daniel Gallagher, didn’t respond to messages seeking comment on
the vote.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, declined to comment.  Ubiquitous Metals  The metals are in virtually any device with an on-switch.
Electronics firms such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  use most or all of the
metals, and the rule would also affect jewelry makers such as
 Tiffany & Co. (TIF) , aerospace companies such as  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
retailers including  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and  American Apparel
Inc. (APP)  Since it was proposed by the SEC, the rule has drawn about
40,000 public comment letters.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  told U.S. lawmakers in March
that the agency can’t bend on setting any minimum amounts for
the use of each metal, as requested by manufacturers. The rule
will provide a phase-in period for companies to comply, she
said, and “will try to give latitude and flexibility in some
areas.” She said her agency was “looking close” at the
guidelines already in place at the Paris-based Organisation for
Economic Co-operation and Development.  In a July 11 letter, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce asked the
SEC to scrap its process and start over unless it can fix
deficiencies in the rule, such as inadequate accounting for how
much it will cost companies to follow. The letter said that a
rule adopted through a flawed process “is unlikely to withstand
judicial scrutiny.” The Chamber used that cost-benefit analysis
argument to successfully challenge in court an unrelated SEC
rulemaking.  ‘Humanitarian Crisis’  The Government Accountability Office said in a report this
month that the Democratic Republic of Congo is the site of “one
of the world’s worst humanitarian crises” in which armed groups
funded by mining proceeds engage in mass killings, rape,
mutilation and sexual slavery. “Some stakeholders’ efforts to
improve their initiatives through expansion and harmonization
have been hindered” by the SEC’s continuing failure to produce
a final rule, the GAO said.  Explaining the process being delayed well beyond Dodd-
Frank’s April 2011 deadline for the rule, Schapiro said the
topic is “so complex and so out of the ordinary” for her
agency.  “Meanwhile, people are still dying in the Congo,” said
Patricia Jurewicz, head of San Francisco-based  As You Sow ’s
Responsible Sourcing Network, which sent letters to the agency
signed by “uncommon bedfellows” including humanitarian groups,
investors and companies such as  General Electric Co. (GE)  and
Microsoft Corp. “We’re happy that the rule will be finalized,
even if it’s not absolutely everything that we desire.”  Disrupted Sourcing  In the most recent annual reports from U.S.-listed
companies, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP found 49 companies
disclosed a risk of disrupted sourcing or pricing from the
coming rule, and 70 companies said they are currently unable to
confirm their products are conflict-free.  “Most companies don’t have the information they need in
order to comply,” Eric  Israel , a managing director at the
accounting firm, said in an interview. “There will be
industries out there that will probably be very unhappy because
they thought this was insignificant.”  To meet the conflict-free standard, Israel said companies
should invest in  information technology  and vendor management.
Because he and other observers of the rulemaking expect the
conflict-minerals disclosures will appear in annual reports,
company heads will sign off on the information, meaning
“executives will be responsible,” he said.  ‘Wait-And-See’  “There are a lot of public companies that are taking a
wait-and-see attitude,” said Michael Littenberg, an attorney at
Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP in  New York  who represents firms
affected by the rule. “By the afternoon of Aug. 22, there are
going to be a lot of people treating this rule very seriously.”  A 3-2 outcome wouldn’t be unusual for an SEC vote. In a
review of 749 SEC votes from December 2010 through November
2011, Schapiro, a political independent nominated by President
 Barack Obama , always voted with Democrat Elisse Walter. The
other Democrat,  Luis Aguilar , voted in opposition to them only
twice. The three showed showed an unusual disagreement over the
approval of the agency’s consolidated audit trail earlier this
month, when Schapiro sided with the two Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 