-- Securities Lawsuits Decreased in First Half of 2012
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/securities-filings-decreased-in-first-half-of-2012.html
Federal securities class actions
decreased in the first half of 2012 compared with last year
largely because of a decline in Chinese reverse mergers and the
lowest number of mergers and acquisitions since the third
quarter of 2009, according to a study.  According to the  Stanford Law School  Securities Class
Action Clearinghouse and  Cornerstone Research , 88 federal
securities class-action, or group lawsuits were filed in the
first six months of this year, a reduction of 6 percent from
both the first half and second half of 2011.  Stanford Law School and Cornerstone reported five
securities class actions filed over the reverse-mergers in
the first half of the year, a 79 percent decline compared with
the same period last year, and seven such filings related to
mergers and acquisitions in the past six months, a 67 percent
decline from the same period in 2011.  The decline in filings stemming from Chinese reverse
mergers isn’t a surprise because “that sector of the market has
already been badly hit by concerns over the integrity of Chinese
private-company financial statements and these deals have been
disappearing from the market,”  Joseph Grundfest , a professor at
Stanford Law School, said in an e-mailed statement.  Fewer lawsuits over mergers and acquisitions are directly
related to a low deal count, Grundfest said.   “You can’t bring merger litigation over a merger that hasn’t 
happened,” he said in the statement.  Reverse Mergers  While class actions over such Chinese deals dropped,
filings against foreign issuers as a percentage of all lawsuits
were greater than every year since 1997, with the exception of
last year, according to the study.  The greatest number of such filings reported since Stanford
Law School and Cornerstone started tracking the data in 1997 was
127 in the first half of 1998. The lowest number, 55, was
reported in the second half of 2006.  Future filings may result from allegations of Libor
rigging, according to Grundfest.   Regulators in the U.S. and  Europe  are probing more than 
a dozen banks worldwide over allegations they manipulated 
Libor, a benchmark for financial products valued at $360 
trillion worldwide. Investigators are examining whether 
traders colluded to rig the rate for profit and whether 
banks understated their borrowing costs to appear healthier 
than they were.  “The magnitude of the potential exposures and the
complexity of the underlying damages claims will likely generate
large amounts of litigation activity in many geographies,”
Grundfest said in the statement.  “Much of that litigation activity will occur away from the
U.S. class-action securities fraud sector, but more lawsuits are
virtually assured,” Grundfest said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  