-- Severe Storms, Derecho Possible in Northeast Tomorrow
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-25T20:33:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/severe-storms-derecho-possible-in-northeast-tomorrow.html
A derecho, the kind of storm that
knocked out power to millions in Washington last month, may
accompany bad weather forecast for  New York City  and the rest of
the Northeast tomorrow, the  U.S. Storm Prediction Center  said.  There’s a moderate chance the rare windstorm will develop
in an area from Indiana to Massachusetts, the center said on its
website. The region is also at risk for severe thunderstorms,
hail and possible tornadoes after noon, according to  John Hart ,
a meteorologist at the agency’s Norman, Oklahoma, offices.  “The environment is going to be favorable for considerably
severe weather right across the area even if we don’t get a
derecho,” Hart said by telephone.  Last month, a derecho knocked out power to at least 4.3
million people from  New Jersey  to North Carolina as it unleashed
winds of as much as 91 miles (146 kilometers) per hour, as
powerful as a Category 1 hurricane. Twenty-four deaths were
linked to the storm and its aftermath, according to the
 Associated Press .  A  derecho  is defined as an event that has wind gusts of at
least 58 mph and leaves a swath of damage for 240 miles,
according to the storm center’s website.  A storm that swept from Chicago to Kentucky yesterday also
seems to have met the definition of a derecho, Hart said.
Yesterday’s storm wasn’t as intense as the one that struck the
mid-Atlantic, including  Washington , on June 29, he said.  Predictions Difficult  Hart said derechos are hard to predict because they require
that a number of atmospheric elements come together.  “There is no way to have high confidence in such a
forecast,” Hart said. “We decided the risk of that scenario
happening was high enough that we would highlight it.”  The area from western Ohio to southern  New England  will
probably be in the path of severe storms tomorrow afternoon,
Hart said. New York, Pittsburgh, Cleveland and Cincinnati all
have a 45 percent chance of severe thunderstorms, high winds and
hail.  Severe storms between the large airline hub cities of
Chicago, New York and Atlanta often disrupt  air travel 
throughout the U.S. Such fast-moving storms, which may include
tornadoes, accounted for about $8.8 billion in insured losses in
the U.S. in the first six months of 2012, according to the
 Insurance Information Institute  in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  