-- Shiseido to Unveil Cost Cutting Plan to Boost Profit
-- B y   Y u k i   Y a m a g u c h i
-- 2012-07-26T07:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/shiseido-to-unveil-cost-cutting-plan-to-boost-profit.html
Shiseido Co. (4911)  is preparing to unveil
a reorganization plan that will include cost cuts and a revised
structure as President Hisayuki Suekawa pushes to boost
profitability at Japan’s largest cosmetics maker.  “We are considering how to change the structure, reviewing
all the costs including marketing cost, labor cost, and overall
infrastructure,” Suekawa said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday. It will give an overview of the plan as early as July
31, and unveil details after the end of the fiscal first half,
he said.  Suekawa’s drive to cut costs and boost revenue follows two
consecutive years of decline in the operating margin for
Shiseido as it faces depressed local demand amid a shrinking
population in Japan. That’s also prompting the company to expand
faster overseas, where the makeup and lipstick maker competes
with  L’Oreal SA (OR)  and  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)   “Sales are not growing much, so they may be trying to do
something at the profit level,” said Masashi Mori, a Tokyo-
based analyst at Deutsche Bank AG. Cosmetics makers have high
administrative and marketing costs, he said.  Sales slowed to a 1.7 percent pace in the year ended March
from 4.1 percent in the previous 12 months, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Operating Costs  Shares of Shiseido fell 2.9 percent to close at 1,126 yen
in Tokyo. The Topix Index rose 1.2 percent.  The company’s operating expenses increased to 480.3 billion
yen ($6.1 billion) in the year ended March from 433.7 billion
yen in 2010, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Operating
margin has declined to 5.7 percent in the year ended March from
8.8 percent in the 12 months ended March 31, 2008, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  The cosmetics maker last month announced a reorganization
plan in its U.S. business, which included merging back office
functions between its subsidiaries and Bare Escentuals Inc.,
which it acquired in the U.S. in 2010 to boost growth overseas.  The 140-year-old company is pushing to get more of its
revenue from outside  Japan . It’s targeting sales to exceed 1
trillion yen by March 2018, with more than half coming from
overseas from about 44 percent currently. Sales rose 1.7 percent
to 682.4 billion yen in the year ended March, while net income
increased 14 percent to 14.5 billion yen.  China Sales  Shiseido can achieve double-digit sales growth in  China 
this fiscal year, beating slower expansion in  Asia ’s largest
economy, Suekawa said yesterday. The interest in “makeup and
the population who use cosmetics” is rising in China, he said.  The company, whose brands include its namesake as well as
others such as Cle de Peau BEAUTE, NARS, and Aupres, will
increase spending by as much as 3 billion yen on marketing
domestically including on the Internet this fiscal year, Suekawa
said. The company “will keep investment around that level”
until March 2018, he said.  Overseas sales rose 5.1 percent to 302 billion yen for the
year ended March, while domestic sales fell 0.8 percent to 380
billion yen.  Shiseido plans to cut by half the number of products it
introduces in Japan, Suekawa said last year.  The company organized a beauty consultant contest, held
once every four years, in  Tokyo  yesterday. As many as 32
contestants selected from about 20,000 Shiseido beauty
consultants worldwide competed at the event.  Shiseido is also turning to other aids to win customers.
The company’s beauty counselors will use Apple Inc.’s iPads to
help sell cosmetics, Chikako Sekine, corporate officer in charge
of the consultants at the company, said in an interview July 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuki Yamaguchi in Tokyo at 
 yyamaguchi10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ; 