-- Singapore Says Growth May Fall Below 1%; MAS Boosts Reserves
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-07-25T05:35:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/singapore-says-growth-may-fall-below-1-as-mas-boosts-reserves.html
Singapore ’s growth may fall below 1
percent should the U.S. and Chinese economies slump and the
European crisis worsen significantly, the central bank said as
it bolstered reserves to counter market turmoil.  The island’s current gross domestic product growth forecast
of 1 percent to 3 percent is based on assumptions that there is
no recession in the U.S., no significant escalation of the euro
zone crisis and no hard landing in  China , Monetary Authority of
Singapore Managing Director Ravi Menon said today.  “If one or more of these assumptions do not pan out,
Singapore’s GDP growth could dip below 1 percent this year,”
Menon said in a briefing in the city state as the central bank
released its annual report. “Growth momentum is clearly
slowing.”  Policy makers across the world are girding for a deeper
impact from  Europe ’s debt woes, with Singapore’s economy
unexpectedly contracting last quarter and China and  South Korea 
cutting  interest rates  this month. Europe was plunged into fresh
market turmoil this week as the first call for bailout aid by a
Spanish region sent borrowing costs surging, while Moody’s
Investors Service lowered  Germany ’s rating outlook to negative.  Singapore’s central bank refrained from returning its
profit to the government in the financial year ended March 31 as
it strengthened reserves and capital, it said in the annual
report. The authority reported a net profit of S$2.77 billion
($2.2 billion) in the year through March 2012, after a loss of
S$10.9 billion in the previous period. Its total assets grew
S$19.45 billion to S$319.2 billion in the same period, it said.  ’Pre-emptive’ Measure  “This is a pre-emptive measure to strengthen the
authority’s capital and reserves, in light of a volatile
financial market environment,” it said in the report, referring
to an increase in its issued and paid-up capital.  The central bank said in April it would allow faster gains
in its currency to damp price pressures, diverging from most
other regional economies that had left borrowing costs unchanged
or eased monetary policy. Inflation in the island of 5.2 million
people accelerated even as the economy shrank, fueled by rising
housing and private transportation costs.  The Singapore dollar has climbed 2.8 percent this year, the
biggest gainer after the Philippine peso among 11 Asian
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. It was little changed at
S$1.2612 against the  U.S. dollar  as of 12:54 p.m. local time.  Policy Appropriate  The central bank’s policy stance remains appropriate, Menon
said today. The authority estimated today inflation will be 4
percent to 4.5 percent this year, compared with the 3.5 percent
to 4.5 percent range it forecast previously. Price gains may
ease to about 4 percent this month, Menon said.  “Bringing down inflation remains one of MAS’s top
priorities,” he said. “Slightly higher inflation does not mean
runaway inflation. MAS will remain vigilant and calibrate
monetary policy to ensure that this does not happen. We will not
allow inflationary pressures to become entrenched or inflation
expectations to build up.”  The central bank expects “continued tightness” in the
housing rental market, as measures taken to increase housing
supply will take some time, Menon said. Should demand remain
resilient, the cost of vehicle permits is likely to stay high
and present “upside risks” to the central bank’s inflation
forecast, he added.  “The persistence in headline inflation has led to some
questions about the efficacy of Singapore’s exchange rate-
centered monetary policy framework,” Menon said. “MAS has
studied this issue carefully. We are assured that the monetary
policy framework remains effective and the current policy stance
remains appropriate.”  ’Effective Tool’  While there is a limit to how far Singapore can use the
 exchange rate  policy to contain inflation, it remains the most
effective tool, Menon said.  “Too rapid a rate of appreciation of the Singapore dollar
can significantly hurt our economic performance, especially in
light of heightened uncertainty in the external environment,”
he said. “The exchange rate is taking longer than usual to
moderate inflation, but it remains our broadest and most
effective anti-inflation tool.”  The central bank said it raised its issued and paid-up
capital to S$25 billion. Its capital and reserves rose to
S$35.15 billion as of March 31, from S$24.38 billion the
previous year, it said.  Asset Disposals  Profit stemmed “mainly from interest income and gains from
asset disposals, offset partially by the impact from the
translation of the authority’s foreign assets into the stronger
 Singapore dollar ,” it said. “For this financial year, there
will be no contribution to the Consolidated Fund, nor return of
profits to the government as the Authority bolsters its
reserves.”  Safeguarding the real value of Singapore’s official foreign
reserves in a more challenging and risky investment climate is
an issue the central bank must contend with, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong said in November. Singapore’s reserves have climbed
to more than $200 billion from $1.4 billion in 1971, Lee said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore, Temasek Holdings Pte,
Government of Singapore Investment Corp. were set up to manage
the nation’s funds and assets taking on different risk levels, a
finance ministry official said in March.  The government “systematically” reviews the risks in its
overall investments, comprising GIC, the sovereign wealth fund,
Temasek, the state-owned  investment company , and the central
bank to ensure there are no major overlaps, Josephine Teo,
minister of state for finance, said in March.  Singapore’s returns from reserves added about S$7 billion a
year to the city’s budget as the government seeks to spend more
on infrastructure with an aging population, the Ministry of
Finance said this month. The island’s constitution was amended
in 2008 to allow the government to spend as much as 50 percent
of long-term expected real returns on reserves ahead of
increased fiscal spending, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  