-- Smartphones Fuel American Tower Rise as Networks Speed Up
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-07-25T20:47:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/smartphones-fuel-american-tower-rise-as-networks-speed-up.html
American Tower Corp. (AMT)  and  Crown
Castle International Corp. (CCI) , whose shares have reached records
this month, are in a sweet spot: handling a surge in cellular
traffic as wireless companies upgrade for a new generation of
bandwidth-hungry smartphones and tablets.  As more wireless carriers convert to faster long-term
evolution technology, known as LTE, worldwide mobile data
traffic will  soar  18-fold by 2016, according to Cisco Systems
Inc. At the end of last year, 54 service providers offered LTE,
according to researcher  Maravedis Inc. , and about 224 more plan
upgrades to the technology. By 2016, 469 million subscribers
worldwide could be using LTE networks.  That new traffic translates into soaring growth prospects
for tower operators, the companies that lease space to the
networks for the growing panoply of antennas they require to
move all that data around.  “Towers remain the most attractive business in telecom,”
said  James Ratcliffe , an analyst at Barclays Capital Inc., in a
July 16 research report.  American Tower has  climbed  15 percent this year, reaching
an intraday high of $73.04 on July 17, while Crown Castle has
 surged  29 percent, touching $60.91 on July 16. American Tower
still has a buy  rating  from 84 percent of analysts, while 61
percent  recommend  buying Crown Castle, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Long Runway  Analysts predict further increases as  Verizon Wireless  and
other mobile-service providers, which lease tower space to
transmit voice and data signals, upgrade networks to handle
data-intensive smartphones and tablets.  Even with a lull in iPhone sales reported yesterday by
Apple Inc., analysts expect demand to surge later this year when
a new version is released. New Apple products and a plethora of
smartphone models made by Samsung Electronics Co. and other
manufacturers are also forecast to drive down prices for
handsets and tablets and stoke even more demand for data.  Telecommunications companies’ capital expenditures --
including tower equipment -- will climb 15 percent to $345
billion by 2016 from $301 billion last year, according to
 Infonetics Research .  “We are very positive on towers,”  Jennifer Fritzsche , an
analyst at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC , said in an interview.
“The runway is quite long for these guys.”  Barclays’s Ratcliffe said he raised his target price for
American Tower and Crown Castle to $75 and $66, respectively.
“We continue to favor tower stocks, even with shares up 20
percent to 35 percent year-to-date.”  Earnings Report  Crown Castle reported after the close today that second
quarter sales climbed 17 percent to $585.5 million, beating the
$561.2 million average analysts’ predictions compiled by
Bloomberg. Crown Castle also boosted its yearly forecast.  Revenue at SBA Communications Corp., the third-biggest
publicly-traded tower operator, may climb 54 percent from 2011
to $1.07 billion next year, according to analysts’ estimates.  “For the first time since the late 1990s, all the major
wireless carriers are engaged in major network upgrades
simultaneously, and we are enjoying unprecedented visibility
into future  revenue (SBAC)  growth,” Benjamin Moreland, chief executive
officer of Crown Castle, said when the company reported first-
quarter earnings in April.  American Tower is scheduled to release results on Aug. 1,
with SBA’s figures due the following day.  Acquisition Plans  To grab more of the carriers’ business, the tower companies
are taking advantage of favorable borrowing conditions -- low
 interest rates  and access to capital -- to ramp up acquisitions
in the U.S. and abroad. The three largest public tower companies
spent about $2.4 billion on deals this year, after spending $5
billion in 2011, said Christopher Larsen, an analyst at Piper
Jaffray & Co.  “We can see them getting a little bit more aggressive this
year,” Larsen said in an interview.  The acquisitions could boost the tower companies’ sales.
Last month, when SBA agreed to acquire TowerCo for $1.45
billion, the company said the assets would contribute as much as
$95 million to  cash flow  in 2013.  American Tower and Crown Castle have made bids to acquire
about 7,000 towers from  T-Mobile USA , people familiar with the
negotiations said last month. The assets could sell for about $2
billion, according to Macquarie Capital.  Potential Targets  Matt Peterson, a spokesman for American Tower, declined to
comment. Crown Castle Chief Financial Officer  Jay Brown  didn’t
return repeated requests for comment. T-Mobile declined to
comment in an e-mailed statement.  Other potential acquisition targets include  NII Holdings
Inc. (NIHD) , Kevin Smithen, an analyst at Macquarie, said in a July 9
research note. SBA Communications’ deal for 3,252 TowerCo towers
translates to about $445,000 per tower. Smithen estimates that
NII Holdings, a carrier that operates in  Latin America , has
about 1,500 towers at $150,000 each in  Mexico , and 4,000 towers
at $200,000 apiece in  Brazil .  “We feel NII Holdings shares are trading well below the
company’s breakup valuation,” Smithen said in the report.  The current stock rally in the tower sector poses some
risks for investors. Since last year’s failed takeover of T-
Mobile USA by  AT&T Inc. (T) , there have been very few deals to
combine phone companies. Should consolidation moves start again,
the value of towers could decline.  Consolidation Risk  “The biggest challenge is the risk of consolidation since
four carriers make up the vast majority of the revenue,” said
Simon Flannery, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, in an interview.
“A major consolidation would likely involve decommissioning of
towers.”  For now, though, executives say the proliferation of mobile
devices and the need to overhaul wireless networks will keep
demand for tower gear buoyant.  “Fundamentally, the demand is going to drive our business
for the next five years, at least,” said Alexander Gellman,
president of Global Tower Partners, a private company that
manages more than 4,000 towers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  