-- SNB Keeping Eye on Denmark to Stem Capital Flooding Switzerland
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-07-25T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/snb-keeping-eye-on-denmark-to-stem-capital-flooding-switzerland.html
Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  President Thomas Jordan has good reason to keep his eyes on  Denmark  as
 Switzerland  looks at tougher tools to weaken the franc.  With both nations seen as havens, central bankers in Zurich
and Copenhagen are struggling to keep their currencies from
appreciating. While the SNB was forced to step up euro purchases
to keep a lid on the franc, Denmark’s Nationalbanken on July 5
took the fight against investors to a new level by cutting the
interest rate it offers on certificates of deposits below zero.  “You can safely assume that the Swiss central bank is
closely watching what their Danish colleagues are doing,” said
Maxime Botteron, an economist at  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  in
Zurich. “Should the situation deteriorate, they might follow
suit and introduce negative rates on banks’ sight deposits.”  SNB Vice President Jean-Pierre Danthine, who has worked
with government officials to assess additional tools, said last
month imposing negative interest rates “is a measure we could
consider if the circumstances warrant it.” Jordan said in an
interview with Handelsblatt published on July 3 that the central
bank doesn’t exclude any measure to weaken the franc.  Record Deposits  As the euro area’s fiscal crisis worsened, sight deposits
in both countries were pushed higher with central banks stepping
up euro purchases and crediting lenders’ deposits with the
amount of their respective currencies sold.  While the Nationalbanken’s certificates of deposit declined
from a record after the rate cut, the SNB’s average sight
deposits reached a fresh all-time high of 261.4 billion francs
($263 billion) in the week of July 20. SNB foreign-currency
reserves surged to 364.9 billion francs at the end of June from
305.9 billion francs in the previous month.  Lowering the interest rate, which the central bank pays to
commercial lenders on their deposits, creates an incentive for
the banks to invest in other assets. That’s easing pressure on
the franc or the krone. Negative rates create an even stronger
fillip to reduce sight deposits as banks have to pay a fee for
holding them instead of receiving a remuneration.  While Swiss banks currently don’t pay interest on the
deposits they hold with the central bank, lenders earned 0.05
percent on their certificates of deposit in Denmark before the
central bank decided to cut the rate to minus 0.2 percent.  Overvalued Currencies  Denmark has an agreement with the  European Central Bank  to
let the krone swing no more than 2.25 percent from a rate of
7.46038, though it maintains a tighter band in practice. The
Copenhagen-based central bank, led by Nils Bernstein, doesn’t
hold scheduled meetings and only adjusts rates to defend the
krone’s peg to the euro. Nationalbanken’s decision came the same
day the ECB cut its benchmark rate to a record low.  In Switzerland, the SNB imposed a franc ceiling of 1.20
versus the euro in September, a measure last used in the 1970s,
to fight deflation threats after the currency surged as much as
37 percent in the previous twelve months.  The Swiss currency remains 36 percent overvalued against
the euro, based on purchasing power parity as calculated by the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. That
compares with 24 percent for Denmark’s krone.  Kasper Kirkegaard, a senior currency analyst at  Danske Bank (DANSKE) 
in Copenhagen, said given the increase in the SNB’s currency
reserves to defend the cap, “it would be natural” for them to
consider taking additional measures at some point.  ‘Test Case’  “Other countries see Denmark as a test case to see how the
economy and banking system react to negative interest rates,”
he said. “The Danish krone has weakened marginally and that has
taken some pressure off the Danish central bank. Of course, if
the European crisis escalated further, it would take quite a lot
to prevent investors from buying the krone or franc.”  Still, some economists argue that Swiss policy makers have
less of an incentive to introduce negative interest rates than
their Danish colleagues. Ulrike Rondorf, an economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said such a move would have
“serious, unintended side effects” in Switzerland.  “By imposing negative rates, central banks hope that
commercial banks funnel the money into the market for loans,”
said  Karsten Linowsky , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Suisse in Zurich. “In Switzerland, the credit market is
functioning very well. From that point of view, there’s no
reason for the SNB to introduce negative rates.”  Property Bubble  Denmark’s banks are struggling to emerge from a burst real
estate bubble that has sent  house prices  plunging 25 percent
since their 2007 peak. Two thirds of the country’s regional
lenders reported losses last year, leaving the industry
reluctant to withdraw funds from central bank accounts.  Lending by banks and mortgage providers rose less than 2
percent in each of the first six months of 2012 compared with a
year earlier, Nationalbanken said on July 24. In Switzerland,
lending increased an annual 4.1 percent in the first quarter and
the SNB has said there is no sign of a credit squeeze.  Swiss officials have said they are weighing stronger
measures just in case the euro area’s turmoil escalates. A
government-led panel in cooperation with the SNB is “regularly
assessing the implementation of additional, complementary
measures to fight the franc’s strength, measures that are not
the sole competences of the SNB,” such as  capital controls ,
Finance Minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said on June 15.  Those steps “would only be taken as the very last
resort,” she told parliament, a day after the SNB kept its
franc ceiling at 1.20 and the benchmark interest rate at zero.  ‘Support Measure’  Serge Steiner , a spokesman at  UBS AG (UBSN) , said that the
introduction of negative rates would be “technically feasible”
for Switzerland’s largest bank based in Zurich. Bernard Droux, a
managing partner at Lombard Odier & Cie., Geneva’s oldest bank,
said such a move would be “very difficult” and “counter-
productive” for the industry.  Credit Suisse said in a note on July 23 that negative
interest rates would “likely act as a support measure” to the
SNB’s currency policy and could “persist for several months up
to several years, depending on the context.”  “The SNB is certainly following what the Danish central
bank is doing,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit
Group in Munich. “However, further unconventional measures like
negative  interest rates  or capital controls will likely only be
adopted in the case of a worst-case scenario regarding the euro-
area debt crisis, putting enormous pressure on the franc.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  