-- Solarworld Rises as China Trade Complaint Nears
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-07-25T08:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/solarworld-rises-as-china-trade-complaint-nears.html
Solarworld AG (SWV) ,  Germany ’s biggest
panel-maker, rose to its highest in three weeks after the
company said it’s working on an anti-dumping complaint against
Chinese competitors with the European Commission.  Solarworld rose as much as 4.4 percent, to 1.41 euros a
share in Frankfurt trading after saying it’s part of a group of
European solar companies that will make an announcement on the
issue at the end of the week.  “Together with several European solar companies,
SolarWorld is working on a complaint against dumping prices of
Chinese manufacturers,” Milan Nitzschke, a spokesman for Bonn-
based Solarworld, said in an e-mail late yesterday. “An action
of the EU on behalf of fair competition and the rules of the EU
is urgently necessary.”  The comments highlight growing tensions with  China  over its
aid for renewable-energy companies. A similar filing in the
U.S., led by Solarworld’s U.S. unit, resulted in preliminary
anti-dumping duties on Chinese solar manufacturers after the
U.S. Commerce Department in May ruled they sold products below
cost.  China’s solar companies are preparing a response to a
possible anti-dumping complaint. Representatives from about 40
domestic companies will outline their stance tomorrow, according
to a statement on the website of China’s Ministry of  Foreign
Affairs .  Complaint Prepared  The Wall Street Journal reported yesterday that Solarworld
filed the complaint with the commission yesterday. Nitzschke
declined to comment on the article or a date of the filing,
saying that Solarworld is “constantly in contact with the
European Commission.”  “Condition for the complaint is that all preparations
within the community of the European manufacturers are
completed,” he said. “At the end of the week the group of
companies will publish an announcement on this issue.”  Germany’s Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier  said July 19
that the country would support the Commission if it were to
start an anti-dumping procedure.  Solarworld will want to show an overwhelming majority of
producers support the measure so that the European Commission
finds reasons to hear the case, a team of Jefferies Group Inc.
analysts said in a note to investors on June 28. The case may
start 45 days after a complaint is filed, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  