-- Soros-Backed Group Urges ECB Action, Bank Union to End Crisis
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-07-25T10:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/soros-backed-group-urges-ecb-action-bank-union-to-end-crisis.html
Ending the euro-zone debt crisis
requires greater political union and European-level banking
insurance as well as more aggressive action by the  European
Central Bank , a band of economists said.  The report by the  Institute for New Economic Thinking , a
research institute founded by billionaire investor  George Soros ,
rejected calls for permanent joint debt issuance, nor did it
endorse fiscal transfers between the 17 members of the  currency
zone .  “Europe is sleepwalking toward a disaster of incalculable
proportions,” economists including  Daniel Gros , director of the
Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels, and Patrick Artus, chief economist at  Natixis (KN)  SA in Paris, said in the
report released on July 23. “Over the last few weeks, the
situation in the debtor countries has deteriorated
dramatically.”  Almost three years after the sovereign debt crisis emerged
in Greece, Spain and Italy are shouldering record borrowing
costs, the euro is plumbing new lows and Germany’s top credit
rating was called into question by Moody’s Investors Service as
a result of the burden Europe’s biggest economy might have to
bear to hold the euro together.  Greater political union is needed to impose unpopular
budget cuts, the economists said, because “the fiscal compact
has gone as far as possible” within “the democratic context of
each sovereign state.”  Merkel’s Experts  While rejecting common debt issuance, the report did say
that “legacy” debt could be pooled, as suggested by  Chancellor
Angela Merkel ’s  German Council of Economic Experts . Council
members Lars Feld and  Peter Bofinger  were among the signatories.
The report also recommended the creation of limited cross-border
risk-free assets, so that future flights to safety would be
decided between asset classes, not countries.  The euro zone also needs a lender of last resort,
preferably the ECB, and the central bank should temporarily
intervene more actively in the market to buy time and to help
Italy and Spain escape their “self-fulfilling fiscal crises,”
according to the economists, who also included Paul de Grauwe, a
professor at the  London School of Economics , and  Erik Berglof ,
the chief economist at the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development.  Financial turmoil in the euro-area deepened this week after
the Spanish region of Valencia said it will need aid from the
central government, and Moody’s Investors Service put a negative
outlook on the Aaa ratings of Germany and the Netherlands,
saying they may need to bail out other member nations.  While rejecting so-called joint euro bonds, the report
argued that surplus countries are obliged to help deficit
countries because their problems were “not caused by these
countries in isolation, but were the result of a flawed euro
zone design.”  The report was written by  Luis Garicano , a professor at the
London School of Economics, and Jeromin Zettelmeyer, the EBRD’s
deputy chief economist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  