-- South Korea Seeking CO2 Cuts at Home Before Allowing Offsets
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-07-25T06:49:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/south-korea-seeking-co2-cuts-at-home-before-allowing-offsets-1-.html
South  Korea  is asking its largest
emitters to make cuts at home before giving them credit for
overseas spending to reduce  greenhouse gases .  The nation, which agreed earlier this year to start a cap-
and-trade system in 2015 to rein in the fastest-growing
emissions in the developed world, won’t allow so-called global
offsets until after 2020, according to a statement posted this
week on the prime minister’s  website . More than 400 companies
participating in the program will be able to use offsets for as
much as 50 percent of their required emissions reductions
starting in 2021, the government said.  “We hope to use the system in an initial stage to support
the government pledges for reduction,” Nam Kwang Hee, director-
general of the Presidential Committee on Green Growth, said by
phone. “As companies focus on cutting domestic emissions, it
will help the country meet planned reduction targets.”  South Korea, which pledged to reduce greenhouse-gas
emissions by 30 percent from forecast levels, follows the
European Union,  Australia  and  New Zealand  in allowing emitters
to meet at least some of their pollution-abatement targets by
paying for overseas rather than domestic clean-ups. With the
price of credits in the United Nation’s Clean Development
Mechanism trading near record lows, offsets can reduce
compliance costs for emitters subject to carbon limits.  Australia’s carbon-pricing system, which started July 1 and
is set to convert to cap and trade in 2015, allows companies to
achieve as much as 50 percent of their compliance using UN
Certified Emission Reductions. New Zealand’s carbon market,
which began in 2008, permits factories to  achieve  all their
compliance using CERs.  Record Low Prices  CERs for December declined to a record low of 2.82 euros
($3.40) a metric ton on July 19 and opened today at 3.03 euros
on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . CERs and
allowances in the European Union, which runs the world’s biggest
cap-and-trade system, are oversupplied until at least 2020
because the recession and debt crisis reduced economic output
and demand for emission credits, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  “The CDM market won’t be able to rely on another source of
demand for its credits,” said Milo Sjardin, the Singapore-based
head of Asia-Pacific analysis at Bloomberg New Energy Finance.
“Korea therefore won’t be able to help alleviate the large
oversupply of CERs in the market.”  Offsets won’t be permitted in the first phase of South
Korea’s emissions trading, scheduled to run from 2015 to 2017.
They will also be banned in the second phase, which covers 2018
to 2020, according to the government’s preliminary guidelines.  Direct Opposite  “The fact that the Korean government has chosen not to
allow international offsets before 2020 means that all of the
abatement necessary in the first five years of the program will
need to be achieved at home,” Sjardin said. This is the direct
opposite of what the EU ETS has done and will likely result in
higher domestic carbon prices than what would have been the case
otherwise. Korean companies will now be faced with finding
sufficient abatement options that can be achieved in the first
few years at reasonable costs.”  South Korea  will hold a public hearing in August with
experts in companies and academia to finalize rules on the cap-
on-trade system by Nov. 15, the statement said. The government
also proposed giving emitters their allowances for free from
2015 through 2017, it said.  ‘Relieving Cost Burdens’  “We are seeking to ease in the new system by relieving
cost burdens on companies at the start,” the prime minister’s
office said in the statement. “We will expand the requirement
to pay for emission allocations gradually.”  Companies will get as much as 97 percent of their emission
allowances for free between 2018 and 2020, and 90 percent after
2021, the statement said.  Companies that emit more than 125,000 metric tons of carbon
dioxide a year, or worksites emitting more than 25,000 tons,
will be subject to reduction targets. The Ministry of
Environment will be in charge of the program.  Four state financial companies, including Korea  Development
Bank  and Industrial Bank of Korea, will be designated to trade
 carbon offsets  with companies in the initial stages.  The largest market for carbon offsets is the European Union,
where installations may use about 1.7 billion UN CERS by 2020
along with EU emissions permits. As of yesterday, the CDM had
generated 971 million credits, according to its  website , each
one representing a saving of 1 ton of carbon dioxide.  Other carbon markets, including the  Regional Greenhouse Gas
Initiative  in the U.S. Northeast and  California’s  cap-and-trade
system, which starts next year, have offset standards that are
not interchangeable with the UN system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  