-- Philippines Cuts Rates as Korean Growth Slows on Europe
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2012-07-26T09:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/south-korea-s-growth-slows-as-europe-crisis-dims-outlook.html
The  Philippines  unexpectedly cut
 interest rates  and South Korea reported the slowest economic
growth in almost three years as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on
exports and increases the likelihood of more easing in  Asia .  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  reduced the rate it pays
lenders for overnight deposits to a record-low 3.75 percent from
4 percent, a decision predicted by four of 16 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. The Bank of Korea said today that  gross
domestic product  expanded 2.4 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier.  The Philippines’ move adds to central bank officials in
 Japan  and  Thailand  who indicated yesterday they are ready to
ease monetary policy if necessary. HSBC Holdings Plc forecasts
that  South Korea  will cut interest rates further this quarter
after Governor Kim Choong Soo said yesterday that Asia’s fourth-
largest economy is losing steam faster than expected.  “The big tide from Europe is engulfing Asia and leaving
many policy makers helpless,” said Lee Sang Jae, a senior
economist at Hyundai Securities Co. in  Seoul . “The worst may
not be over yet.”  Asian  stocks  advanced for the first day in five after a
drop in U.S. new home sales fueled speculation the  Federal
Reserve  may take new steps to spur growth. The MSCI Asia Pacific
Index added 0.8 percent, South Korea’s benchmark Kospi Index
rose 0.7 percent and Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  rose 0.9
percent.  The  Bank of Japan (8301)  “will not hesitate” to loosen monetary
policy should the world’s third-biggest economy face shocks,
Deputy Governor Hirohide Yamaguchi said. Thai Assistant Governor
Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said “we are ready to do more” if
conditions deteriorate.  ‘Bumpy Road’  The world economy “has been on a bumpy road and we will
see more bumps ahead,” Kim Young Bae, a Bank of Korea director-
general told reporters in Seoul today after GDP figures were
released. “But I hope and believe that the second half will be
better as Europe is muddling through.”  In contrast, Finance Minister Bahk Jae Wan said downside
risks to growth are rising. Citigroup Inc. said in a note today
that odds have increased that the government will announce a
supplementary budget and “it would not be so surprising” if
the central bank cut interest rates next month.  Pause Extended  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region,  New Zealand ’s central
bank extended a pause in the benchmark interest rate.
 Singapore ’s  industrial production  rose more than economists
estimated in June as pharmaceutical companies increased output,
countering a decline in electronics.  In Europe, the rate of growth in M3  money supply , which the
ECB uses as a gauge of future inflation, increased to 3.2
percent in June from 3.1 percent in the previous month, the
 European Central Bank  said today.  M3 grew 3 percent in the second quarter from the same
period a year earlier. M3 is the broadest gauge of money supply
and includes cash in circulation, some forms of savings and
money-market holdings.  In the U.S., durable goods orders in June may have risen
0.3 percent from the previous month, after a revised 1.3 percent
gain in May, according to the median analyst estimate. A report
by the Labor Department may show weekly jobless claims were
380,000 in the week ended July 21, compared with 386,000 the
previous week.  South Korea exports decreased 0.6 percent in the second
quarter from the previous quarter, when overseas shipments
gained 3 percent, today’s BOK report showed. Corporate
investment in facilities fell 6.4 percent from the previous
quarter, when it rose 10.3 percent, while private consumption
increased 0.5 percent after advancing 1 percent.  Sustaining Consumption  “Korean growth is becoming more dependent on domestic
demand as global trade remains sluggish, lowering growth
prospects,” Ronald Man, a Hong Kong-based analyst at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said before the release. “Sustaining private
consumption growth will be critical.”  Seoul-based  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s No. 4 mobile-
phone maker, reported yesterday that second-quarter profit
missed analysts’ estimates after sales of handsets lagged behind
rivals.  Not all news from Korean companies is bad. Hyundai Motor
Co., the nation’s largest carmaker, today reported second-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as sales of the
Tucson sport-utility vehicle helped the company buck an
industrywide drop in Europe.  The BOK lowered its main rate a quarter percentage point to
3 percent on July 12, the first reduction since February 2009,
as it joined a global stimulus push from Europe to  China . The
following day, the central bank pared its 2012 growth forecast
to 3 percent from 3.5 percent, the second cut this year.  Not Immune  “Considering exports account for about half of our
economy, how can we stay immune to changes in the international
landscape and the European crisis?”  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim
said yesterday.  Economic support measures including assistance for small
businesses and low-income earners announced on June 28 have yet
to stem a slide in confidence. Consumer sentiment dropped to the
lowest level in five months in July, the Bank of Korea said
yesterday.  “There are increasing risks that the expected recovery
will be later or weaker than currently assumed,” Ma Tieying, an
economist with DBS Bank Ltd. in Singapore, said in a note before
today’s release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  