-- Stockland Head Quinn to Retire; Earnings Miss Forecast
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-07-25T06:52:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/stockland-head-quinn-to-retire-earnings-miss-forecast.html
Stockland (SGP) , Australia’s biggest
diversified property trust, said Managing Director Matthew Quinn
will retire in February. The company said annual profit was less
than forecast.  Quinn, who has led the group for more than 11 years, will
continue in his role until a replacement is found, Stockland
said in a statement to the Australian stock exchange. The
Sydney-based company posted unaudited earnings of 29.3
Australian cents (29.6 cents) per share for the 2012 fiscal year
that ended June 30, below its May forecast of 29.8 cents, due to
one-time charges, it said.  The company is buying back shares to close the gap between
its trading price and the value of its assets, and is selling
office and industrial properties as it shifts its focus to
residential, retail and retirement businesses, a strategy the
company refers to as 3-R.  “I’m a little surprised to see a change in leadership with
the change in structure only partly completed,” said Stuart Cartledge, Melbourne-based managing director of Phoenix
Portfolios. “It does beg the question as to how the strategy is
going to change under new leadership.”  While the company’s board of directors supports the 3-R
strategy, “there’s no suggestion that we’ll be directing a new
CEO to be bound by past decisions,” Chairman Graham Bradley
said on a teleconference today. The company will continue
selling assets, he said.  Stockland  shares  fell 0.6 percent to A$3.18 at the 4:10
p.m. close of trading in Sydney. The shares have tumbled 64
percent since a December 2007 peak, compared with a 38 percent
decline in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Buyback Progress  Stockland hasn’t acquired as many shares as was expected in
its recent outlook statement, it said in today’s announcement.
The company, which hasn’t repurchased any shares this month,
will resume the buyback following its fiscal year 2012 results
announcement on Aug. 8, Quinn said on the call.  The timing of some land lot settlements also affected
expected earnings, it said. The group will pay a dividend of 24
Australian cents for the year ended June 30, it said.  Stockland is looking both in  Australia  and overseas for
Quinn’s replacement and is searching outside the property
industry as well, Bradley said on the call. It expects to
appoint a new chief executive within six months, he said.  “The board is confident Stockland is in good shape to
remain resilient in the current challenging environment,” he
said in the statement. “While Stockland’s performance in recent
years has been impacted by extremely challenging market
conditions, under Matthew’s leadership Stockland has grown to be
a market leader in its core businesses.”  Quinn in April told Bradley he was committed to staying at
Stockland for the next three years, he said today.  “But I went on holiday with the family and had the family
proverbial board meeting and decided that the time had come for
me to make this change,” Quinn said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  