-- Swiss Stocks Advance; Lonza, EFG Shares Climb on Earnings
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-07-25T16:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/swiss-stocks-advance-lonza-efg-shares-climb-on-earnings.html
Swiss stocks  increased for the first
time in four days as companies from  Lonza (LONN)  Group AG to EFG
International AG reported results that beat estimates.  Lonza, the world’s biggest maker of drug ingredients,
rallied 3.7 percent. EFG International, the Swiss bank
controlled by Greek billionaire Spiro Latsis, surged by a record
26 percent as it said profitability is improving.  Swatch Group
AG (UHR)  and Cie. Financiere Richemont AG gained more than 2 percent.
 Newron Pharmaceuticals (NWRN)  SpA slid 5.8 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  added 0.1 percent to 6,180.77 at the
close of trading in Zurich. The benchmark measure has still
 dropped 2.5 percent from its 2012 high  on March 16 amid concern
the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis has hurt the economy. The
broader Swiss Performance Index was little changed today.  “Good results from Lonza and EFG supported the Swiss
market today,” said Christophe Ochsner at Mirabaud Securities
LLP’s equity sales desk in Geneva. “Market sentiment is still
uncertain though, with nervous investors watching the situation
in  Spain .”  Spain’s 10-year bond yields surged to a euro-area record of
7.64 percent yesterday, prompting policy makers to deny an
international bailout was being prepared for the country.  Spain will probably lose  market access  shortly and might
ask for sovereign bailout “within days,”  Harvinder Sian , a
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc in London, wrote in a
note to clients.  German Economy  In  Germany ,  business confidence  fell for a third straight
month in July to the lowest in more than two years. The Ifo
institute in Munich said its  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, dropped to 103.3 from 105.2 in June.
That’s the lowest reading since March 2010. Economists had
predicted a decline to 104.5, according to the median of 35
forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  The  U.K. economy  shrank the most in more than three years
in the second quarter.  Gross domestic product  fell 0.7 percent
from the first quarter, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today. Economists had forecast a 0.2 percent decline, according
to the median of 36 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras is scheduled to meet
with international creditors from the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the IMF on July 27, amid concern the
country won’t abide by the commitments needed to obtain
continued financial aid.  Lonza jumped 3.7 percent to 45.50 Swiss francs after it
reported first-half profit that topped analysts’ estimates and
Chief Executive Officer Richard Ridinger signaled he’s seeking
efficiency gains at a Swiss facility and with the integration of
Arch chemicals.  Lonza Earnings  Earnings before interest and taxes increased 24 percent to
168 million francs ($170 million), beating the 154.6 million-
franc prediction in a Bloomberg survey of analysts. Sales of
1.96 billion francs also beat estimates, driven by revenue from
acquired units.  EFG International (EFGN)  surged 26 percent to 6.09 francs, the
biggest gain since the bank’s initial public offering in 2005.
First-half net income fell to 53.1 million Swiss francs ($53.4
million), beating the 29 million-franc median estimate of five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Gross margin, or the revenue
generated from client assets, improved.  Swatch, the world’s largest watchmaker, climbed 2.3 percent
to 378.40 francs, while Richemont, the owner of the Cartier
brand, increased 2.2 percent to 54.15 francs.  Newron Pharmaceuticals dropped 5.8 percent to 6.02 francs
as the biotechnology company’s extraordinary shareholder meeting
in  Italy  didn’t reach the required quorum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  