-- Symantec Ousts CEO Enrique Salem in Favor of Chairman
-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r   a n d   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-25T20:28:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/symantec-board-replaces-ceo-enrique-salem-with-chairman-bennett.html
Symantec Corp. (SYMC) , the world’s largest
maker of computer-security software, ousted Chief Executive
Officer  Enrique Salem  and passed the reins to Chairman Steve Bennett, saying the company wasn’t performing well enough.  Bennett, former CEO of  Intuit Inc. (INTU) , also will take the role
of president while remaining chairman,  Mountain View ,
California-based Symantec said today in a statement. The move
wasn’t triggered by a specific event or any impropriety, said
 Dan Schulman , the company’s new lead director. The shares jumped
14 percent, the biggest one-day gain in more than a decade.  “Bennett is known for driving operational progress and
focused product delivery,” said Brian Freed, an analyst at
Wunderlich Securities Inc. in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , who has a buy
recommendation on the stock. “The combination of consistent
execution and operational discipline is exactly the order
Symantec needed.”  Symantec shares had declined 16 percent this year amid
slowing sales and shrinking profit. The company, best-known for
its antivirus programs, also has been struggling to expand in
the storage market, which is led by  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and  EMC Corp. (EMC)  Symantec’s push into data storage
through the $10.2 billion purchase of Veritas Software Corp. in
2005 was increasingly viewed as a mistake.  Symantec ‘Underperforming’  “My view is that Symantec’s assets are strong and yet the
company is underperforming against the opportunity,” Bennett,
58, said in the statement. “I’m looking forward to working with
the team to build upon the significant assets in place to help
Symantec accelerate value creation for all of its
stakeholders.”  Symantec  shares  climbed to $14.96 at the close in New York,
the biggest increase since July 2001.  “For the next 90 to 120 days, the stock performance will
be a function of hope, which is something you didn’t have when
Enrique was there,” Freed said.  The company delivered its quarterly results and forecast
this morning, moving up the release from this afternoon. Profit
excluding some costs will be 35 cents to 39 cents in the fiscal
second quarter, Symantec said. Analysts had estimated 40 cents
on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales will
be $1.64 billion to $1.67 billion in the period, which ends
Sept. 28, Symantec said. Analysts had predicted $1.69 billion.  Profit Drop  First-quarter  net income  attributable to Symantec
shareholders fell about 10 percent to $172 million, or 24 cents
a share, from $191 million, or 25 cents, a year earlier. Revenue
climbed 1 percent to $1.67 billion in the period, which ended
June 29.  Salem, 46, worked at Symantec for 19 years, the last three
as CEO. Bennett, meanwhile, joined the board in 2011 following a
career at Intuit, General Electric Co. and other companies. He
served as Intuit CEO from 2000 to 2007, using a customer-driven
approach to expand sales to $2.7 billion from less than $1
billion, Symantec said.  Symantec and rival McAfee, now a part of  Intel Corp ., have
struggled with slow growth in the antivirus market, said  Steve Ashley , an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co. in  Milwaukee ,
 Wisconsin . A rise in hacking attacks has benefited smaller
companies that focus on specific niches, such as stopping
espionage, trade-secret theft and other sophisticated crimes
against businesses, Ashley said.  Mobile Market  The company also has tried to shift into security for
mobile devices -- a strategy Bennett said he would continue.
Bennett said he expects to remain CEO until he’s comfortable
with the state of the company.  “I told my wife, ‘This might be a five-year deal. It might
be a three-year deal,’” he said on a conference call.  Bennett also will concentrate on returning more cash to
shareholders, he said. The company ended last quarter with  cash
and short-term investments  of $4.1 billion.  As CEO, Salem had fielding questions on earnings calls
about whether he planned to split up the security and storage
businesses. Salem said in the past that the company had
considered a restructuring and decided against it.  “Enrique was a very talented sales guy, but he would be
heading in one direction and all of the sudden veer in another
direction,” Freed said. “That is what drove people’s
frustration with the company and drove shares to their low
valuation. Symantec is too big of a ship to turn on a dime.”  Bennett said today that he would seek new ways to improve
Symantec. He plans to spend up to 120 of his first days as CEO
on a tour to meet with investors, customers, partners and
employees.  “I don’t feel at all constrained by the board,” Bennett
said. “I took this job because I believe our assets are better
than our performance, and I need to find what’s getting in the
way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nick Turner in  New York  at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Chaykowski in New York at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  