-- MTU Aero Raises Forecasts as First-Half Sales Beat Estimates
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-25T10:41:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/mtu-aero-raises-forecasts-as-first-half-sales-beat-estimates-1-.html
MTU Aero Engines Holding AG (MTX) , the
German company helping develop engines for  China ’s planned C919
airliner, raised full-year earnings and sales forecasts after
beating analysts’ first-half revenue estimates.  MTU now expects adjusted operating profit this year of 370
million euros ($446 million) and sales at 3.3 billion euros, the
Munich-based company said today. That would amount to a 13
percent increase, compared with MTU’s earlier forecast of 8
percent to 10 percent growth, and a 12 percent gain for sales,
versus a “mid single-digit” percentage prediction.  Engine makers are seeing an increase in business as Airbus
and Boeing boost production of commercial airliners. MTU also is
seeing output increase on engines transitioning from a
development phase to production. MTU is also benefiting from a
higher pace of military flying, particularly related to the
German air force’s transport fleet, CEO Egon Behle said today.
The next two years could see military maintenance revenue higher
than initial forecasts, he said.  “MTU has delivered a solid set of numbers,” Oliver
Sleath, an analyst at Credit Suisse said in a note to investors.
The company maintains an “outperform” rating on the engine
maker.  Commercial-plane engines and maintenance revenue “can be
expected to increase as predicted,” while military-business
sales will rise “slightly” instead of remaining unchanged,
Chief Financial Officer Reiner Winkler said in the statement.  IAE Stake  MTU’s higher sales forecast also reflects 100 million euros
generated from its increased share in the International Aero
Engines joint venture building V2500 engines, one of two  power
plants  offered for the Airbus A320 airliner.  The sales boost will increase to 250 million euros next
year, Behle said, and will then bolster adjusted operating
profit at mid- to high-single digits.  MTU raised its stake last month in the partnership, which
is led by  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney  engine
unit, to 16 percent from 11 percent. The company is paying about
550 million euros for the larger share.  The company has a sales target of 6 billion euros in 2020,
which Behle said can be achieved without acquisitions. The
company is looking at various purchases and partnership
agreements, he said, without specifying potential deals.  MTU is a partner on Pratt & Whitney’s geared turbofan
engine, to be used on the  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CSeries narrow body,
Mitsubishi Regional Jet and other airliners.     “Development
is progressing well,” Behle said.  A400M Engine  Another large development program MTU is involved in is the
Europrop International TP400-D6 turbo-propeller for the Airbus
Military A400M military transport aircraft. The engine, under
development by a joint venture that includes  Rolls-Royce
Holdings Plc (RR/) ,  Safran SA (SAF) ’s Snecma unit, and  Spain ’s ITP, has
encountered repeated technical problems.  Airbus this month stopped a 300-hour test phase needed for
aircraft certification because metal shavings were found in oil
during inspection. Behle said the assessment of what caused the
problem is still under review. There are no reasons at this
point to expect financial damages from the situation, he said.  Behle also confirms the company is exploring how to gain a
supplier role on the engine for the Boeing 777X, a new version
of the long-range airliner the U.S. aircraft maker is
considering. Boeing has asked  General Electric Co. (GE) , Pratt &
Whitney, and Rolls-Royce for engine proposals. Behle would not
say what strategy MTU will pursue to secure a position on the
future aircraft.  MTU rose as much as 3.2 percent to 60.23 euros and was
trading up 2.2 percent at 12:06 a.m. in  Frankfurt . The stock has
gained 21 percent this year, valuing the manufacturer at 3.12
billion euros.  Spare Parts  In the second quarter, MTU reported a slow down in sales of
spare parts to airlines, mirroring a trend among peers. For the
full year, Winkler says these sales will be flat. The company
previously forecast 5 percent to 10 percent growth.
An increase in spare-parts sales will come, but a few months
later than foreseen, Behle said.  Adjusted net income this year will probably total 225
million euros, MTU said, a gain of 14 percent from 2011’s
figure, and exceeding an earlier projection of 10 percent to 12
percent.  Adjusted earnings before interest and taxes increased 6.9
percent to 175.8 million euros. Sales rose 16 percent to 1.56
billion euros, beating the 1.48 billion-euro average of six
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  