-- U.K. Boosts Gas While Cutting Support for Wind, Biomass
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-25T14:33:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/u-k-cuts-onshore-wind-support-10-percent-boosts-wave-power.html
The U.K. government granted tax
relief for natural gas drillers and cut subsidies for renewable
energy, signaling more reductions in the months ahead as it
balances demand for cheaper power against a goal to lower
pollution from fossil fuels.  The Department of Energy and Climate Change cut subsidies
for onshore wind 10 percent, offered less financial support than
expected for biomass and said it may cut solar further.  Drax
Group Plc (DRX) , owner of the U.K.’s largest power station and biomass
consumer, fell by a record. Gas drillers get a tax credit worth
500 million pounds ($776 million).  The decision caps weeks of debate within Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s coalition government over the scale of support
for renewables after Conservatives called for a 25 percent cut
in the wind subsidy. The Renewable Energy Association said it’s
concerned the government’s decision to review wind and solar
support levels will hold back investment.  “There are some disappointments,” said Gaynor Hartnell,
chief executive officer of the REA. “Wind developers have been
prepared for this modest reduction. There is good news for hydro
and gasification. However, we are effectively left with no deep
geothermal industry” and a “further review for onshore wind.”  Drax Plunge  Drax fell as much as 25 percent after the government
outlined new rates for firing  power plants  with both coal and
biomass that were lower than proposals made last year. DECC said
it would grant as little as 0.6 of a ROC per megawatt-hour of
power produced by plants co-fired with both coal and enhanced
biomass, below the 1 ROC proposed in October.  Centrica Plc (CNA) , the U.K.’s biggest residential energy
supplier, said the tax relief on gas drilling would bolster its
Cygnus project in the  North Sea , underpinning 1.4 billion pounds
of investment in developing a field that will create 4,000 jobs.  Today’s government decision balances demands of Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne  against those of Energy
Secretary  Ed Davey . Osborne wants to natural gas remains central
to U.K. energy supply and that subsides are limited to keep
energy affordable during the recession. Davey’s ambition to
boost clean energy to meet 15 percent of the U.K.’s energy need
by 2020 from about 3.8 percent.  Davey vs Osborne  Osborne, a Conservative seeking to shore up his chances of
becoming Cameron’s eventual successor, has sided with members of
his party who represent rural constituencies opposed to wind
farms. He won Davey’s support for a review of gas policies later
this year aimed at underpinning investment in the industry.  Davey, a Liberal Democrat, held the cuts for onshore wind
below the 25 percent sought by Conservatives. DECC forecasts the
changes will lead to as much as 25 billion pounds of investment
in clean energy between 2013 and 2017 while shaving 6 pounds off
the average power bill. The program compels generators to derive
a proportion of their electricity from clean sources.  “The support we’re setting out today will unlock
investment decisions, help ensure that rapid growth in renewable
energy continues and shows the key role of renewables for our
 energy security ,” Davey said in a statement released by his
department in London today. “Renewable energy will create a
multi-billion pound boom.”  Gas Strategy  The Treasury said the government will publish a strategy
later this year on ensuring drillers get long-term commitments
on tax incentives for tapping natural gas fields. The 500
million pound tax allowance announced today is designed to spur
investment in large gas fields in shallow waters.  “Gas is the single biggest source of energy in the U.K.,”
Osborne said in a statement. “The government is signaling its
long-term commitment to the role it can play in delivering a
stable, secure and low carbon energy mix.”  Electricity generators will receive 0.9 tradable Renewable
Obligation Certificates, or ROCs, for every megawatt-hour of
power from onshore wind from April, down from 1 at present, the
department said. That level is guaranteed until 2014. The
department warned “it could change after then if there is a
significant change in generation costs”, raising the
possibility of a further review of support levels.  Subsidy Mechanisms  The ROCs program along with feed-in tariffs granting above
market rates for renewable energy are the two main ways the
government supports renewable energy. The subsidies are paid for
by consumers through their electric bills, and incentives have
triggered a surge in installations across technologies from
solar photovoltaics to wind farms both onshore and at sea.  The government also plans to put a 5-megawatt floor on the
size of wind projects that can claim ROCs, a decision that will
force smaller projects to claim feed in tariffs instead, Gordon Edge, policy director at the lobby group RenewableUK said in a
phone interview. With 400 megawatts of projects under 5
megawatts in development or in planning, that will trigger
automatic cuts in the tariffs once pre-ordained levels of
capacity have been reached, he said.  Wind developers are concerned toay’s announcement means
they’ll be “going through review after review” when financiers
need longer-term visibility of the system for taxation and
support, said Gordon MacDougall,  chief operating officer at the
developer Renewable Energy Systems Ltd.  Wave and Solar  Support for offshore wind will be cut by 5 percent from
2015, with a further reduction the following year. Dong Energy
A/S, a Danish utility that’s one of the biggest U.K. offwind
developers, praised the government’s decision saying support is
vital for its projects.  DECC more than doubled support for wave power and tidal
stream power to 5 ROCs from 2 ROCs and set a maximum project
size of 30 megawatts. It said it will consult again on levels
for solar photovoltaic panels, a technology it has sought to
slow under a different subsidy program for small-scale projects.  Four new categories of biomass burning were introduced,
including biomass conversion, which will receive 1 ROC. Biomass
conversion with combined heat and power will get 1.5 ROCs and
enhanced co-firing of biomass will get 0.6 to 0.7 ROCS from next
year, depending on the fuel mix.  ‘Limbo Land’  On solar, the department didn’t approve its proposal last
year calling for the current level of support to be maintained
for now and subjected to a new consultation. New evidence shows
that the cost of photovoltaic energy has fallen “dramatically”
so extending the current two ROCs for each megawatt hour beyond
next March would “over-reward” the technology, it said in the
report.  The government said the support, which targets large-scale
solar plants, should be set at a “significantly” lower level
consistent with feed-in tariffs, the premium rates for small-
scale projects. DECC will publish a consultation on the
proposals for reduced ROC support shortly, it said.  “The last thing this industry needs is yet another
consultation on support levels,” said Seb Berry, head of public
affairs for Solarcentury, a British panel installer. “Investors
are now in limbo land awaiting yet another consultation and
unable to commit to projects beyond March 2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  