-- U.K. Gives $7 Billion Rail Deal to Hitachi After Three-Year Wait
-- B y   N e i l   D e n s l o w
-- 2012-07-25T06:39:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/u-k-gives-7-billion-rail-deal-to-hitachi-after-three-year-wait.html
The U.K. awarded a 4.5 billion pound
($7 billion) train order to  Hitachi (6501)  Ltd. and Henderson Group 
Plc's John Laing, more than three years after the suppliers were
named as preferred bidders for the contract.  The deal covers 92 trains totaling 596 rail carriages,
which will we built at a new factory in County Durham, northern
 England , according to a Department of Transport statement today.
The new plant will create 730 jobs and another 200 during
construction, it said.  The trains will be used on intercity routes, including
London-to-Bristol, after plans to upgrade the nation’s rail
network survived Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s drive to cut
 government spending . Hitachi and Henderson waited since 2009 to
conclude the deal after a change of government and cost concerns
caused delays.  The new trains are “great for rail passengers who will
experience faster and more comfortable journeys,” Transport
Secretary Justine Greening said in the statement. “A new train
factory is fantastic news for Britain and will be welcomed by
everyone who wants to see a thriving UK manufacturing sector.”  Hitachi will open a European research facility at the
County Durham site, according to the statement. The Tokyo-based
trainmaker will also construct maintenance depots in Bristol,
Swansea, west London and Doncaster, as well as upgrading other
facilities across the country.  Agility Loan  Agility Trains, Hitachi’s venture with Henderson’s John
Laing, is seeking a loan facility of as much as 2.2 billion
pounds from 10 banks for trains that will be used on the Great
Western Line, people familiar with the matter said today. They
asked not to be identified because the details are private.  Hitachi, which also makes nuclear reactors and air
conditioners, fell 2 percent to 434 yen in Tokyo trading today.
Hitachi owns 70 percent of Agility, with Henderson holding the
rest.  The new contract is part of the Intercity Express Program
that was approved by the previous Labour government. The plan
includes the electrification of the Great Western line from
 London ’s Paddington Station to the city of Bristol, which will
allow the replacement of 30-year-old InterCity 125 diesel
expresses.  The Conservative-led coalition confirmed Agility as the
preferred bidder for the Intercity Express Program in November
2010, after the venture revised its offer.  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  was
also on the shortlist.  The government the same month agreed to fund 2,100 railcars
for delivery of over 8 1/2 years as part of a more than 20
billion pound push to improve services. That commitment included
600 railcars for the 16 billion-pound Crossrail route, which
will provide the first east-west service across London by 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Denslow in  Hong Kong  at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net . 