-- S&P 500 Erases Advance as Apple’s Plunge Offsets Banks
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-07-25T21:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/u-s-stock-futures-little-changed-apple-falls-on-results.html
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
erased gains in the final hour of trading as a rally in bank and
industrial shares wasn’t enough to overcome disappointing
results at  Apple (AAPL)  Inc. and an unexpected drop in new home sales.  A gauge of  homebuilders  in S&P indexes slumped 3.2 percent.
Apple tumbled 4.3 percent as iPhone sales missed forecasts.
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , the largest video-subscription service, plunged 25
percent after raising doubts on user  growth .  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup Inc. rose at least 1.2 percent.  Boeing Co. (BA)  and
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  added more than 1.4 percent, pacing gains in
industrial shares, after raising their earnings forecasts.  About five stocks  rose  for every four falling on U.S.
exchanges at 4 p.m. New York time. The  S&P 500  slid less than
0.1 percent to 1,337.89, after gaining 0.4 percent earlier. The
benchmark gauge has lost 2.8 percent in four days. The Dow Jones
Industrial Average rose 58.73 points, or 0.5 percent, to
12,676.05. Volume for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was 6.6
billion shares, or about in line with the three-month average.  “There’s a huge amount of uncertainty out there,” Rob McIver, co-portfolio manager at Jensen Investment Management in
Lake Oswego, Oregon said in a phone interview. His firm manages
$5.5 billion. “It’s a somewhat anemic U.S. recovery. And you
see that starting to be reflected in corporate results. It’s
certainly a difficult environment for investors.”  The S&P 500 fell as a report showed demand for new U.S.
homes unexpectedly dropped in June from a two-year high. Sales
at only 40 percent of the 201 S&P 500 companies which reported
second-quarter results have  beaten  analysts’ estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings at 71 percent
of companies topped forecasts, the data showed.  ‘Mixed’ Earnings  “The earnings news is mixed,” said  Alan Gayle , a senior
strategist at RidgeWorth Capital Management in Richmond,
Virginia, which oversees about $47 billion. “Still, companies
have managed expectations and, for the most part, the numbers
came in ahead of forecasts. We’re also seeing a discussion on
the Fed potentially acting amid an economic slowdown.”  Worse-than-expected economic data intensified bets that the
Federal Reserve is moving closer to taking new steps to spur
economic growth. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke last week said
policy makers are studying options for further easing that could
be deployed in case economic growth remains too feeble to
produce a lasting decline in unemployment. The Federal Open
Market Committee meets next week.  Technology shares, which comprise 20 percent of the S&P
500, dropped 0.8 percent.  Apple Tumbles  Apple sank 4.3 percent, the most since October, to $574.97.
Customers delayed purchases of existing iPhone versions while
awaiting the next model. Samsung Electronics Co. releases
several designs a year to defend its lead in the $219.1 billion
smartphone market. That raises the stakes for Apple Chief
Executive Officer  Tim Cook , who relies on a once-a-year upgrade
of the device that makes up half of the company’s sales.  “Pressure is mounting,” said Michael Obuchowski, a
portfolio manager at North Shore Asset Management LLC, an owner
of Apple shares. “Because everybody else has a much faster
design cycle, Apple has to come up with a new phone that’s
competitive not just when it comes out, but will stay
competitive for a long period of time.”  Netflix plunged 25 percent to $60.28, the lowest since
January 2010. The summer Olympics are likely to hamper efforts
to sign up new customers, Chief Executive Officer Reed Hastings
said. The full year-goal of adding 7 million new U.S. users will
be “challenging” if this quarter’s most optimistic targets
aren’t met, he said.  Slot Machines  International Game Technology (IGT)  dropped 20 percent to $11.76.
The world’s biggest maker of slot machines reported profit and
sales that trailed analysts’ forecasts.  TripAdvisor Inc. (TRIP)  sank 17 percent to $36.18. The online
travel-recommendation service spun off from Expedia Inc.
reported second-quarter revenue that missed analysts’ estimates.  RadioShack Corp. (RSH)  tumbled 29 percent to $2.60. The
electronics chain suspended its  dividend  and posted an
unexpected second-quarter loss as costs soared.  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  lost 12 percent to $54.01. The second-
biggest U.S. health plan cut its forecast after quarterly profit
missed analyst estimates because of higher medical costs.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  lost 2.6 percent to $53.24. The company said
second-quarter  profit  fell 33 percent for the newly independent
oil and natural-gas producer after losing income from its
refining segment, which was spun off April 30.  Flat Panels  Corning Inc. (GLW)  retreated 7.7 percent to $11.14. The world’s
largest maker of glass for flat-panel televisions reported a 39
percent drop in second-quarter  earnings  amid price declines for
its LCD screens.  A measure of financial shares in the S&P 500 gained 0.3
percent. JPMorgan added 1.3 percent to $35.17.  Citigroup (C)  rose
2.2 percent to $25.79.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  jumped 4.8 percent, the most since
November, to $22.87. The second-largest U.S. equity exchange
operator reported earnings that beat analyst estimates. The
company lowered its 2012 expense forecast.  Boeing gained 2.8 percent to $74.03. Total jet deliveries
should rise to a range of 585 to 600 this year, it said. That
may help the U.S. planemaker reclaim the top spot in commercial
production it lost to European rival Airbus SAS in 2003.  Caterpillar rallied 1.4 percent to $82.60. The largest
maker of construction and mining equipment  raised  its full-year
earnings forecast as increasing demand from North American
builders and overseas miners bucks an economic slowdown.  CEO Ousted  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  soared 14 percent to $14.96. The world’s
largest maker of computer-security software ousted Chief
Executive Officer  Enrique Salem  and passed the reins to Chairman
Steve Bennett, saying the company wasn’t performing well enough.  Altera Corp. (ALTR)  surged 12 percent to $34.41. The maker of
programmable chips forecast sales that may beat analysts’
estimates this quarter on stronger demand for wireless-
communications gear.  Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  climbed 11 percent to $16.50. The No.
2 maker of networking gear reported second-quarter revenue and
profit that beat analysts’ estimates, citing demand for new
products and improved sales to U.S. telecommunications carriers.  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  added 7.2 percent to $32.98. The maker of
chips that help mobile devices connect to the Internet, forecast
third-quarter sales that may exceed some analysts’ estimates,
helped by strong demand from its smartphone customers.  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  surged 3.4 percent to $56.83. The
maker of blood products and intravenous drugs raised its
dividend and said it authorized a new share buyback program.  Busiest Week  U.S. initial public offerings are set for their busiest
week since March as purveyors of steak, burritos and antivirus
software strive to go to market before investor optimism wears
off.  Del Frisco’s Restaurant Group Inc. (DFRG) , Chuy’s Holdings Inc.,
Avast Software NV and five other companies are attempting to
raise as much as $923 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
That would be the most since the week of March 26, when nine
companies went public, including foodmaker Annie’s Inc. and
industrial-components maker Rexnord Corp.  The IPOs come on the heels of sales last week by  Palo Alto
Networks Inc. (PANW) ,  Kayak Software Corp. (KYAK)  and teen retailer  Five Below
Inc. (FIVE) , which surged on their first trading days. Tex-Mex
restaurant chain Chuy’s raised $75.8 million on July 23 and
jumped 16 percent in its debut, giving further impetus to this
week’s sellers even as concerns persist over Europe’s debt
crisis and the economic recovery in the U.S., said James
Investment Research Inc.’s Tom Mangan.  “There’s nothing like someone else’s success to encourage
you to take that leap as well,” said Mangan, who helps oversee
$3.4 billion at the Xenia, Ohio-based firm. “There’s some
urgency on the part of people who want to proceed with an IPO
because they’re afraid of what might happen later in the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  