-- U.S. Army Seeks to Waive $500,000 Conference Spending Cap
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-07-25T17:56:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/u-s-army-seeks-to-waive-500-000-conference-spending-cap.html
The U.S. Army will seek a waiver to
participate in a Washington conference after the White House
imposed a $500,000 spending limit amid a scandal at the  General
Services Administration .  The exemption is for the annual meeting of the Association
of the U.S. Army, a nonprofit advocacy organization based in
Arlington, Virginia. The three-day event begins Oct. 22 and is
billed as “one of the largest land warfare expositions and
professional development forums in the world,” with about
38,000 attendees and 600 industry and military exhibits.  The Army authorized 10 organizations and commands to
provide exhibits at this year’s event, according to a July 23
memo signed by Lieutenant General William Troy and obtained by
Bloomberg News. The document doesn’t specify how many troops
will attend or how much it will cost.  The forum is “a valuable platform for communicating Army
strategic themes and messages,” Troy wrote. “But leaders must
make every effort to reduce our spending levels.”  The White House’s Office of Management and Budget on May 11
prohibited conference expenses of more than $500,000. The action
came a month after the release of an inspector general report
that found the General Services Administration spent more than
$823,000 at a conference near  Las Vegas .  GSA Administrator Martha Johnson resigned amid the fallout
from the scandal. At least a dozen agency employees and managers
were fired or placed on administrative leave and the inspector
general referred the matter to the  Justice Department .  “We’re the polar opposite of events like that,” David
Liddle, a spokesman for AUSA, said in a telephone interview.
“We’re proud of our program.”  The Army conference is “serious business” with panels on
congressional, cultural and financial matters, Liddle said. It
also helps connect enlisted soldiers with leaders such as Army
Secretary John McHugh and Army Chief of Staff General Raymond Odierno, he said.  “Everybody is very well aware of the need to be cost-
conscious,” Dave Foster, an Army spokesman who confirmed the
memorandum, said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  