-- Treasury Investors Cut Inflation Bets as Gross Warns
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-07-25T04:50:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/u-s-yields-extend-drop-to-record-lows-as-gross-warns.html
Treasury investors cut bets on
inflation to the least in six months and yields reached record
lows as  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund,
warned the U.S. economy may stop growing.  The  difference  between the rate on 10-year notes and same-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
debt, narrowed to 2 percentage points. It was the least since
Jan. 4 and compares with an average of 2.15 over the past
decade. The U.S. plans to sell $35 billion of five-year debt
today, as slowing growth and Europe’s debt crisis fuel demand
for the relative safety of Treasuries.  “The market is implying that there is deflation in the
economy, that the U.S. economy will get weaker,” said Kevin
Yang, head of bond investment in Taipei at Hontai Life Insurance
Co., which has $6 billion in assets.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  were little changed at 1.39
percent as of 1:50 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader data. The price of the 1.75 percent security due in May
2022 was 103 10/32.  The rate dropped as low as 1.3824 percent, setting a record
for the third straight day. Yields on five-, seven- and 30-year
Treasuries also slid to all-time lows, with the rate on the
U.S.’s longest bond dropping to 2.4502 percent.  Japan ’s 10-year rate declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, from yesterday’s closing level to 0.725
percent. It was 0.72 percent over the past two days, a level not
seen since 2003.  Growth Outlook  A report from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond implies
economic growth is “inching close to 0,” according to a
Twitter posting from Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Gross,
who is based in  Newport Beach ,  California .  His $263 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  had 52 percent of its
assets in mortgage-related debt, 35 percent in Treasuries and 13
percent in investment-grade corporates on June 30, according to
Pimco’s  website .  The Richmond Fed manufacturing index fell to negative 17 in
July from a revised level of negative 1 in June, the bank
reported yesterday.  Debt Auctions  The five-year notes being sold today yielded 0.555 percent
in pre-auction trading, versus 0.752 percent at the last sale on
June 27. Investors bid for 2.61 times the amount offered last
month, the least in a year.  Primary dealers , the 21 companies that underwrite the  U.S.
debt , bought 54.1 percent of the securities, the most since
February 2011.  Indirect bidders , the category of investors that
includes foreign central banks, purchased 35.1 percent, the
least since the same month.  The U.S. sold $35 billion of two-year notes yesterday and
plans to conclude this week’s auctions with a $29 billion sale
of seven-year debt tomorrow.  Hontai’s Yang said he disagrees with the market. He set
bets against Treasuries yesterday and predicts the  U.S. economy 
will keep growing, he said.  Purchases of  new U.S. homes  probably climbed 0.4 percent in
June from May to the highest level in two years, based on a
Bloomberg News survey of economists before the Commerce
Department reports the figure today.  Economists polled by Bloomberg predict a July 27 report on
gross domestic product will show economic growth slowed to an
annualized 1.4 percent in the second quarter from 1.9 percent in
the first.  Inflation Expectations  U.S. consumer prices rose 1.7 percent in June from the year
before, versus an average of 2.5 percent for the past decade,
according to Labor Department data.  While yields show inflation expectations are falling,
there’s no letup in demand for insurance against rising costs in
the economy.  U.S. Representative Stephen Fincher, a Republican from
 Tennessee , said July 18 he’s concerned that Fed efforts to spur
the economy will fuel inflation.  Investor demand for 10-year TIPS pushed yields on the notes
down to negative 0.75 percent on July 23, a record low. TIPS
have returned 6.2 percent this year, versus 3.2 percent for
conventional Treasuries, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch data.  Vanguard Group Inc., which oversees $1.83 trillion, is
starting a short-term TIPS fund. It will be an option for
investors seeking protection from inflation, the company, which
is based in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania , said in a press release
yesterday.  “Lower Treasury yields are possible,” said Yoshiyuki Suzuki, the head of fixed income in Tokyo at Fukoku Mutual Life
Insurance Co., which has the equivalent of $70 billion in
assets. The U.S. economy “is clearly slowing. The situation is
getting worse in  Europe .” Inflation won’t become a problem, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 mheath1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 