-- U.S. Senate May Pass Obama’s Tax-Cut Extension Proposal
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-25T19:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/u-s-senate-may-pass-obama-s-tax-proposal-today-with-vote.html
The  U.S. Senate  will vote today on
competing Democratic and Republican tax plans, spelling out
their positions in a way that won’t resolve the impasse on
fiscal policy.  The Democratic bill, endorsed by President  Barack Obama ,
would extend expiring income-tax cuts for a year for all but the
highest earners. Individuals with income exceeding $200,000 a
year and married couples with more than $250,000 would face
higher tax rates in 2013.  Democrats control 53 votes in the 100-seat Senate and may
be able to win passage at the vote scheduled for 4 p.m. Vice
President  Joe Biden , who can vote in the Senate to break a tie,
probably will travel to Capitol Hill to be available for the
vote, said a Senate Democratic aide who wasn’t authorized to
speak publicly.  Two members of the Democratic caucus, Virginia’s Jim Webb
and Connecticut independent  Joe Lieberman , have said they will
vote against the plan. Democrats  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska and
Robert Casey of Pennsylvania said they were undecided.  “We’ll see,” Casey said yesterday in an interview. “I’m
taking a hard look at it.”  The bill isn’t expected to advance in the Republican-led
 House of Representatives . Republicans want to extend the
expiring income tax cuts for all income levels for a year.
Senate Republicans’ plan will be voted on today as a proposed
amendment to the Democrats’ bill.  Republican Leader  Senator  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, the Republican leader,
said today he wouldn’t use procedural moves to require a 60-vote
threshold.  “The only way to force people to take a stand is to make
sure that today’s votes truly count,” he said. “Nobody on the
other side can hide behind a procedural vote.”  The Constitution requires tax bills to originate in the
House. That means today’s Senate bill can’t go to Obama’s desk.  Any legislation would have to pass the Senate again, which
would let Republicans use procedures to block it.  The Senate Democrats’ bill is S. 3412.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  