-- U.S. Wins in Women’s Olympic Soccer; North Korea in Flag Row
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-07-26T12:34:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/u-s-comes-back-to-beat-france-in-women-s-olympic-soccer-match.html
Alex Morgan scored twice as the U.S.
came back from two goals down to beat  France  4-2 in its Olympic
women’s soccer tournament opener. World champion  Japan , Britain,
 Brazil  and  Sweden  also won.  North Korea  delayed the start of its match against  Colombia 
for more than an hour because of a dispute over its flag. The
North Koreans went on to win 2-0 on a goal in each half by Song-
Hui Kim.  Gaetane Thiney and Marie-Laure Delie scored within two
minutes of each other to put France ahead in the first 15
minutes at Hampden Park in Glasgow. The U.S. drew even by
halftime on goals from  Abby Wambach  and Morgan.  Carli Lloyd put the Americans ahead in the 56th minute and
a second goal from Morgan 10 minutes later sealed the match.  “Somehow we always like to make things a little
dramatic,” Wambach told reporters. “The truth is, we really
believe in ourselves. There’s nothing that’s going to stop us.
Two goals, people getting injured, there’s one thing that we
have on our mind and it’s gold.”  The Americans qualified for the Olympics without allowing
a goal in the regional tournament. Their only loss this year
came against Japan, which defeated the U.S. 1-0 at the Algarve
Cup in March.  Japan, the Women’s World Cup champion, held on to defeat
Canada 2-1 and host Britain beat New Zealand 1-0. Brazil routed
Cameroon 5-0. Sweden eased past  South Africa  4-1 in Group F.  ‘The Stage’  Japan took the lead in the first half in Coventry in the
early Group F match on a Nahomi Kawasumi goal set up by Shinobu
Ohno. Aya Miyama made it 2-0 by heading into an unguarded net.  Canada got a 55th-minute goal from Melissa Tancredi.  “This was the stage where I dreamt of appearing for a long
time, so I was very happy to be here,” Kawasumi told reporters.
“I was not nervous and I was able to enjoy the game.”  Sweden is on top of its group after the defeat of South
Africa. Nilla Fischer scored in the seventh minute and then Lisa
Dahlkvist and Lotta Schelin scored in the 20th and 21st minute
for the Swedes, who finished third in the last Women’s  World
Cup . Portia Modise scored for South Africa on the hour mark, but
Schelin responded three minutes later to close the scoring in
Coventry.  Six Times   Marta, voted FIFA’s female player of the year six times in
a row, scored twice as Brazil defeated Cameroon in Group E. She
scored in the 73rd and 88th minutes after Francielle scored in
the seventh minute and Renata Costa three minutes later to give
Brazil control of the match in Cardiff. Cristiane scored in the
79th minute.  North Korea refused to start play at Hampden Park after its
lineup was displayed on the scoreboard along with a picture of
the South Korean flag.  Play began at 8:50 p.m., 65 minutes later than the
scheduled kick off. Games organizers apologized for the mistake
and said that steps will be taken to avoid a repeat.  “Our team was not going to participate unless the problem
was solved perfectly,” North Korea coach Gun Sin Ui told
reporters. “Although we won the game, we hope this will not
happen again in the next matches.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said the incident
shouldn’t be exaggerated.  “This was an honest mistake, honestly made, an apology has
been made and I’m sure every step will be taken to make sure
these things don’t happen again,” Cameron said today at the
Olympic Park in east  London . “We shouldn’t overinflate this
episode, it was unfortunate, it shouldn’t have happened and I
think we can leave it at that.”  The U.S. plays Colombia July 28 in Glasgow and faces North
Korea three days later in its final Group G game, at  Manchester
United ’s Old Trafford stadium.  Britain, which is making its Olympic debut in women’s
soccer, couldn’t score until the second half in Cardiff against
 New Zealand . Stephanie Houghton got the only goal with a shot
that curled into the bottom left corner in a Group E match.  “Hopefully we’ll get more confidence after this,” British
forward Karen Carney told the Olympic News Service. “We had a
nervy start, but we built on it and we’re glad we got the win.”  The London Games officially open tomorrow, although the
women’s and men’s soccer tournaments start earlier. The men’s
event begins today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  