-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for July 20 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-07-25T14:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-july-20-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged 15.8 million barrels per
day during the week ending July 20, 258 thousand barrels per day
above the previous week’s average. Refineries operated at 93.0
percent of their operable capacity last week. Gasoline
production increased last week, averaging about 9.3 million
barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased last week,
averaging 4.6 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged 9.6 million barrels per day last
week, up by 696 thousand barrels per day from the previous week.
Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have averaged 9.0
million barrels per day, 516 thousand barrels per day below the
same four-week period last year. Total motor gasoline imports
(including both finished gasoline and gasoline blending
components) last week averaged 1.0 million barrels per day.
Distillate fuel imports averaged 162 thousand barrels per day
last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 2.7 million barrels
from the previous week. At 380.1 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories increased by
4.1 million barrels last week and are in the lower half of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories increased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories increased by 1.7 million barrels last week and are
below the lower limit of the average range for this time of
year. Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.3 million
barrels last week and are near the upper limit of the average
range. Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 10.1
million barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged nearly 19.0 million barrels per day, up by 1.0 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged 8.8 million
barrels per day, down by 3.2 percent from the same period last
year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged nearly 3.5
million barrels per day over the last four weeks, up by 0.1
percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel product
supplied is 2.9 percent lower over the last four weeks compared
to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  