-- Tullow Ghana Fields Have Higher Share of Oil Than Estimated
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-07-25T15:59:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/tullow-says-ghana-ten-fields-hold-mostly-oil-as-tender-starts.html
Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) , a U.K. explorer with
most of its licenses in  Africa , said its TEN fields off Ghana
have a greater proportion of crude than previously estimated.  The Tweneboa, Enyenra and Ntomme  fields  may be 70 percent
crude, the London-based company said today in a statement. They
may contain 360 million barrels of oil equivalent, it said.  “Initially we thought that area might be quite gassy, but
actually the appraisal program has shown it to be predominantly
oil,” Chief Operating Officer Paul McDade said by telephone.
“We are targeting sanction of the project towards year-end.”  Tullow has extended exploration in Ghana after starting to
pump oil from its Jubilee field in 2010. The country, West
Africa’s biggest economy after  Nigeria , has lured other
international companies including Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  as aging
deposits elsewhere are depleted.  The total resource estimate at TEN is lower than Tullow’s
original forecast, Morgan Stanley said in a report. Tullow may
also face delays in state project approval following the death
of President John Atta Mills yesterday, Morgan Stanley said.  Tullow fell 6.3 percent to 1,284 pence in London, the
lowest price since Nov. 25.  Project Spending  Tullow last year estimated the TEN fields would require at
least $4 billion in investment to produce as much as 125,000
barrels of oil a day. The company and its partners, including
 Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Kosmos Energy Ltd. (KOS) , are holding
tenders for contractors to help develop the deposits.  Oil-service costs have risen as exploration companies
expand the search for crude and venture into harder-to-reach
areas.  “We are in a tight market and we certainly see the
tightness of the market as we go through the tender process,”
McDade said, declining to disclose the latest cost estimate at
the TEN fields.  Tullow also operates in Uganda, where it expects to invest
$8 billion to $12 billion in oilfield development with partners
 Total SA (FP)  and  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , it said today. That’s in line with a
previous forecast of about $10 billion. An export pipeline will
cost an estimated $2.5 billion to $5 billion depending on the
route, which may cross neighboring  Kenya , it said.  Kenya Permits  In Kenya, Tullow plans to relinquish some exploration
licenses in a “low prospective area” where oil resources are
less likely, Exploration Director Angus McCoss said today in a
phone interview. “There is a continuous discussion ongoing with
the government on how we manage our acreage,” he said.  Tullow’s first-half net income rose 63 percent to $567
million as sales reached $1.2 billion, it said in today’s
statement.  At  Ghana ’s Jubilee field, Tullow expects to start gas
supplies to  Ghana National Gas Co.  next year after local
pipelines are built, McDade said.  “They are making some progress within Ghana,” he said.
“In the meantime, we are taking the Jubilee gas and putting it
back into the reservoir, effectively storing it.”  Separately, Tullow said it’s increasing interests in Blocks
 LB-16 and LB-17  in Liberia. The company is buying Anadarko’s
stakes, Barclays Plc wrote in an e-mailed report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  