-- Human Genome Sued by Shareholder Over $3 Billion Glaxo Deal
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-07-25T23:32:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/human-genome-sued-by-shareholder-over-3-billion-glaxo-deal-1-.html
Human Genome  Science Inc., being
taken-over by lupus-drug partner  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  for about
$3 billion, was sued by a shareholder claiming the offer
shortchanges investors.  Human Genome investor Joan Litwin sued the company and
executives arguing that the proposed transaction undervalues the
company and that management, which had months earlier rejected a
$2.6 billion offer from Glaxo, didn’t fulfill its duties. Litwin
seeks to represent all Human Genome shareholders as a group,
according to the complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
Wilmington, Delaware.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drug-maker, agreed to acquire
Human Genome for $14.25 per share, according to a statement on
July 16. London-based Glaxo, also named in the lawsuit, sought
to acquire its Benlysta lupus treatment partner for months
offering $13 a share in April. The deal accepted by Human
Genome’s executives is valued at $3.6 billion including debt and
cash.  “The tender offer is grossly inadequate,” lawyers for
Litwin said in the complaint. The board urged investors to
reject the $13 a share offer, saying “it does not capture HGS’
inherent value and growth opportunities” just two months before
accepting a deal offering a premium of 9.7 percent more,
according to court papers.  Jerry Parrott, a spokesman for Rockville, Maryland-based
Human Genome, and Kevin Colgan, a U.S.-based spokesman for
Glaxo, didn’t immediately respond to phone calls after regular
business hours seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Litwin v. Human Genome Sciences Inc., 12-00979,
 Delaware  District Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 