-- UMC Net Income Beats Estimates, Forecasts Second-Half Slowdown
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-07-25T08:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/umc-net-income-beats-estimates-forecasts-second-half-slowdown.html
United Microelectronics Corp. (2303) , the
world’s second-largest contract maker of chips, posted profit
that beat estimates while forecasting slower growth amid
continued global economic weakness.  Second-quarter net income dropped 6.3 percent to NT$2.99
billion ($99 million), from NT$3.19 billion a year earlier, the
Hsinchu, Taiwan-based company said in a  statement  today. The
average of 16 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was for
profit of NT$2.63 billion.  United Microelectronics, which has about one-fifth the
revenue of  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , faces lower
profitability by being about one year behind its larger rival in
technology development. The introduction of more-advanced 28-
nanometer production and new devices to be released by the end
of the year may help the company offset a weaker economy.  “We started to see some deterioration in summer and the
second half shall be weaker,” Chief Executive Officer Sun Shih- wei said at an investors’ conference today. “The global macro-
economy is very difficult to predict, the EU sovereign debt
issue continues, the emerging countries are slowing down and the
U.S. is mixed.”  Unconsolidated sales dropped 1.9 percent to NT$27.6
billion. The company’s shares fell 2 percent to NT$12.10 at the
close of trade in Taipei before the earnings announcement, and
have declined 4.7 percent this year.  Price Increases  Shipments and prices this quarter will both rise
“marginally” from the prior three-month period, driven by the
computer and consumer electronics segments, UMC said in a
statement today. Factory usage will be about the same as the 84
percent it posted in the second-quarter, it said.  Third-quarter revenue is expected to be NT$29.7 billion
according to the average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s growth of 7.7 percent from the prior quarter,
according to Bloomberg calculations.  TSMC, the world’s largest custom chipmaker with more than
50 percent market share, on July 19 forecast record sales this
quarter that exceeded analysts’ estimates while predicting
revenue will drop in the fourth and first quarters because of a
weak global economy and rising inventories.  Qualcomm, which turns to TSMC as its major manufacturing
partner, can’t get enough chips from the Taiwanese company and
is working with new suppliers to boost output, it said last
week.  UMC’s gross margin, a key measure of profitability that
tracks sales less the cost of goods sold, was 24.4 percent on a
parent-level basis in the second quarter, wider than the 22.6
percent average of 15 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
That figure will be in the “mid-20 percent range” this
quarter, UMC said, with the analysts expecting it to be 24.1
percent.  UMC maintained its 2012 capital expenditure plan of $2
billion, less than a quarter of the $8 billion to $8.5 billion
TSMC said it will spend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  