-- Lundbeck Gets EU Antitrust Complaint on Citalopram Deals
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-25T11:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/lundbeck-gets-eu-antitrust-complaint-on-citalopram-deals.html
H. Lundbeck A/S (LUN) , the Nordic region’s
second-largest drugmaker, was sent a formal antitrust complaint
by European Union antitrust regulators for hampering the sale of
generic versions of antidepressant citalopram.  The European Commission said it also sent complaints to
generic manufacturers  Merck KGaA (MRK) , Generics UK, Arrow, Resolution
Chemicals, Xellia Pharmaceuticals, Alpharma, A.L. Industrier and
 Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  for agreeing to pay-for-delay deals
with Lundbeck. Les Laboratoires Servier will also be sent a
statement of objections in the probe,
EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said.  “The companies entered into agreements that foresaw
substantial value transfers from Lundbeck to its four generic
competitors, who subsequently abstained from entering the
market,” the EU antitrust authority said in a statement. “The
value transfers included direct payments from Lundbeck to the
generic competitors and also occurred in other forms, such as
the purchase of generic citalopram stock for destruction or
guaranteed profits in a distribution agreement.”  The Lundbeck probe is the EU’s first case investigating
pay-for-delay agreements, regulators said. Lundbeck developed
citalopram, which belongs to a class of antidepressant medicines
known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The drug was
marketed under the name Celexa.  Groundless Allegations  “Lundbeck vigorously opposes any allegation of wrongdoing
and does not believe its practice has violated European
competition law,” the Copenhagen-based company said in a
statement. “It is confident that all allegations made by the
commission should be rejected as groundless.”  Ranbaxy declined to immediately comment.  Lucy Vincent, a
spokeswoman for Servier, wasn’t immediately reachable for a
comment.  Commission officials raided the offices of Lundbeck,  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest generic-drug
maker, and other companies in 2009 as part of an antitrust
investigation. The surprise inspections marked the fourth time
companies’ offices had been visited since the EU started a probe
of the pharmaceutical industry in January 2008.  The EU has focused on whether manufacturers misuse patents
and lawsuit settlements to keep cheaper generic medicines off
the market.  The EU also raided Lundbeck’s offices in 2005 in Denmark,
Italy and  Hungary , searching for evidence that the drugmaker
abused its dominant market position in the antidepressant
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  