-- University of Texas to Review Report on Gas Fracking Impacts
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-07-25T15:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/university-of-texas-to-review-report-on-gas-fracking-impacts.html
The  University of Texas  at Austin
will assemble a group of independent experts to review its
February report on gas fracking after reports said the professor
who led the study is on the board of a gas driller.  The review could be completed in weeks, Steven Leslie,
university provost and executive vice president, said in a
statement yesterday. The university’s Energy Institute released
a report Feb. 16 on the effects of hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, that was proposed and presented by Charles Groat,
associate director of the Energy Institute and former director
of the  U.S. Geological Survey .  Groat has been on the board of  Plains Exploration &
Production Co. (PXP)  since 2007, a relationship he didn’t disclose in
the report. Raymond Orbach, director of the university’s Energy
Institute, said that he learned of the connection from a
Bloomberg reporter’s inquiry.  “We believe that the research meets our standards, but it
is important to let an outside group of experts take an
independent look,” Leslie said in a statement.  The university announced the Feb. 16 report with a headline
entitled “New Study Shows No Evidence of Groundwater
Contamination from Hydraulic Fracturing.” The study cost
$270,000, none of which came from industry sources, according to
university spokesman Gary Rasp.  Report Released  The Public Accountability Initiative, a Buffalo non-profit
that says it focuses on corruption in business and government,
this week released a report on the Groat study. The group
receives funding from organizations such as the Sunlight
Foundation and United Republic, which favor transparency in
government.  As the U.S. enjoys a natural-gas boom from fracking,
producers are supporting research at established universities
that arrives at conclusions that counter concerns raised by
critics, Bloomberg News reported on July 23. In some cases, such
as the Groat study, industry ties are not fully disclosed.  In fracking, millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to break up rock and allow
gas to flow. The  Texas  report found that while there have been
surface spills of fracking wastewater, there is no evidence of
groundwater contamination from fluids injected thousands of feet
below the surface.  Some environmental groups say fracking threatens drinking
water and have called for curbs on the process. The U.S.
 Environmental Protection Agency  is conducting a study of the
potential impact of fracking on ground water.  Board Member  As a board member, Groat receives 10,000 shares of
restricted stock a year, according to company reports. His
holdings as of March 29 totaled 40,138 shares, worth $1.6
million at the July 19 closing price. He also receives an annual
fee, which was $58,500 in 2011, according to filings. Houston-
based Plains Exploration is fracking in shale formations in
Texas, company spokesman Ed Memi said in an e-mail.  “Dr. Groat has been reminded of his obligations to report
all outside employment per university policy,” Leslie said.
“If the university had known about Dr. Groat’s board
involvement, the Energy Institute would have included that
information in the report.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  