-- Turkcell Second-Quarter Profit Beats Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-07-25T16:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/turkcell-second-quarter-profit-beats-analysts-estimates-1-.html
Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL) ,
Turkey’s biggest mobile-phone operator, said net income in the
second quarter was 535.8 million liras ($293.6 million) as
revenue from fixed-line and mobile-data services increased.  Turkcell had a loss of 18.4 million liras in the same
quarter last year because of impairment charges and foreign
exchange losses at the Belarus unit, the Istanbul-based company
said today in a statement to the stock exchange. Net income was
expected to be 473 million liras, according to the average of
seven analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Turkcell Group continued its double-digit growth in the
second quarter following a strong start to the year,” Chief
Executive Officer Sureyya Ciliv said in a statement of results.
As a result, Turkcell “generated its historic highest second-
quarter and first-half revenue.”  Turkcell, owned by  TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) , Moscow-based Altimo and
Cukurova Holding AS of Turkey, faces increasing competition in
its home market from  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and Avea Iletisim
Hizmetleri AS, the smallest operator in the country and majority
owned by  Turk Telekomunikasyon AS. (TTKOM)   Turkcell had 52.5 percent of Turkey’s mobile-phone
subscribers at the end of March, down from 53.4 percent a year
ago, and compared to Vodafone’s 27.8 percent and Avea’s 19.7
percent, according to the market regulator  data . Turkey’s mobile
penetration was 88 percent at the end of March, it said.  Turkcell’s average monthly revenue per user, or Arpu, rose
to 20.7 liras in the second quarter an increase of 5.6 percent
from a year earlier and 7.8 percent from the previous quarter.  The company’s revenue rose 12.5 percent to 2.57 billion
liras in the second quarter from 2.28 billion liras a year
earlier. It had 34.7 million subscribers at the end of June,
compared with 34.5 million in the previous quarter.  Shareholders’ Dispute  Cukurova, Altimo, owned by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Fridman ’s  Alfa Group , and TeliaSonera have been fighting a
three-cornered battle for control of Turkcell for almost a
decade. While TeliaSonera is the largest shareholder with 38
percent, Cukurova has sought to retain control via a complex
ownership structure even as its stake has declined to 13.8
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  