-- Vale Counting on China Rebound as Profit Sinks
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-07-26T18:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/vale-quarterly-net-drops-as-iron-ore-metal-prices-fall.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore miner, is counting on a rebound in Chinese economic growth
to boost sales after declining prices caused it to post its
lowest quarterly profit in more than two years.  Net income  slumped 59 percent in the second quarter to
$2.66 billion, or 52 cents a share, from $6.45 billion, or
$1.22, a year earlier, Rio de Janeiro-based Vale said late
yesterday. Vale was expected to post per-share profit of 73
cents excluding some items, according to the average of 12
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  China , which accounted for about a third of Vale’s sales,
grew at 7.6 percent in the second quarter from a year ago, the
slowest pace in three years. Vale expects Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s
economic stimulus measures and infrastructure projects to fuel
recovery in coming quarters, increasing demand for  iron ore  and
other metals.  “Data released so far show the first signs of recovery in
infrastructure investment and housing, two important sectors for
the demand of metals,” Vale said in its earnings report. “The
demand for housing will continue to be strong in the foreseeable
future in the face of rapid economic growth and the urbanization
process.”  Vale shares fell 0.2 percent to 35.04 reais at 3:50 p.m. in
 Sao Paulo , heading to the longest losing streak in 17 years.
Vale has fallen 7.3 percent this year, compared with a 10
percent decline for Melbourne-based  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, and a 9.6 percent drop for
London-based  Rio Tinto  Group, the third-largest after Vale.  Ore Prices  Iron ore  for immediate delivery declined for the 11th
consecutive day yesterday to the lowest since Oct. 31. The price
of ore with 62 percent iron content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin slipped 3.5 percent to $118.60 a ton, according
to data compiled by The Steel Index Ltd.  Vale’s net sales fell 21 percent to $11.9 billion after it
sold iron ore at an average $103.29 a metric ton, down from
$145.30 last year. That’s less than a $110 per ton estimate by
Banco BTG Pactual SA. The average sales price for nickel dropped
31 percent and copper declined 15 percent, Vale said.  Earnings missed analysts’ estimates for the fourth time in
the past five quarters. The result was Vale’s fourth consecutive
decline in quarterly  profit (VALE5)  and the lowest net income since the
first quarter of 2010.  “Once again, the main driver of the miss was lower iron
ore price realizations, which explained the bulk of the
variance,” Barclays Plc analysts led by Leonardo Correa wrote
in a report yesterday after the earnings release. ‘The
probability of an extraordinary dividend for the year is now
very low.’’  Profit Outlook  Profit is expected to drop to $16.5 billion this year from
$22.9 billion in 2011, according to the average of 19 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  China will need more stimulus measures in the second half
to help accelerate infrastructure projects, said Rafael Weber,
who helps manage about 7 billion reais ($3.4 billion) at Geracao
Futuro Corretora in  Porto Alegre ,  Brazil .  Vale is “a bit optimistic considering the current
scenario,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview. “There
are doubts this recovery will happen in the second half.”  Rio Tinto, the second-largest shipper of iron ore behind
Vale, said this month it’s closely watching the global economy
including Chinese stimulus efforts. It said in June it would
reduce its  capital spending . BHP Chairman Jac Nasser said in May
he expects metal prices to ease further.  Chinese Purchases  Vale sold about 44 percent of its iron ore and pellets to
 Chinese customers  in the second quarter, up from 42 percent a
year earlier.  Europe  bought about 20 percent, little changed
from a year ago.  The company shipped 75.3 million metric tons of iron ore
and pellets in the quarter, 3.3 percent more than a year
earlier. Nickel sale volumes rose 11 percent to 63,000 tons and
copper shipments climbed by the same percentage to 61,000 tons,
the company said.  Total debt as of June 30 rose to $25.5 billion from $24.9
billion at the end of the previous quarter.  Engineering and construction cost increases and delays in
project execution prompted the company to boost its investment
budget for four projects in Brazil, Vale said.  Planned spending for the Salobo and Salobo II copper
projects was raised by 7.3 percent and 20 percent to $2.51
billion and $1.71 billion, respectively, the company said. Vale
also boosted the capital expenditure budget for its logistics
CLN 150 project and its Tubarao VIII pellet plant.  Vale, which invested $4.29 billion in the second quarter,
approved the Itabiritos Caue iron ore project in the Brazilian
state of  Minas Gerais . The project will require an investment of
$1.5 billion and have capacity to produce 24 million tons of
iron ore annually, Vale said.  Rising Output  Iron-ore output rose 0.4 percent in the second quarter to
85 million tons, beating analysts’ estimates, after weather
conditions improved at Carajas, its biggest mine, the company
said July 18. BHP reported a 15 percent increase in production
of the steelmaking raw material in the same period.  The rising volumes, coupled with an outlook for an iron-ore
price rebound stemming from Chinese stimulus measures, support
Vale’s expectations for improving results, New York-based HSBC
Holdings Plc analyst Jonathan Brandt said in a report yesterday.  “Despite the poor results, we continue to believe that
stimulus measures recently implemented by the Chinese government
are likely to improve macro data,” Brandt said. “This implies
improving financial results for Vale in the next two quarters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  