-- Visa Beats Estimates as Global Credit-Card Spending Rises
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-26T13:32:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/visa-profit-beats-estimates-as-credit-card-spending-increases.html
Visa Inc. (V) , the world’s biggest
payments network, posted a fiscal third-quarter profit excluding
legal costs that beat analysts’  estimates  as card spending rose.  Adjusted net income for the three months ended June 30
climbed to $1.06 billion, or $1.56 a share, from $883 million,
or $1.26, a year earlier, the San Francisco-based company said
yesterday in a statement. The average estimate of 34 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was $1.45 a share. The firm had a net loss
of $1.84 billion when including a $4.1 billion provision tied to
its settlement this month of a U.S. antitrust lawsuit.  Visa, led by Chief Executive Officer Joseph W. Saunders,
66, has benefited as consumers shift from cash to electronic
payments, while parrying legal and regulatory threats to its
business. Visa,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  and some of the biggest U.S.
banks agreed this month to settle the suit brought by merchants
who accused financial firms of rigging credit-card fees.  “Visa once again reported solid global growth in payments
volume, cross-border transactions and processed transactions
outside the U.S.,” Saunders said in the statement. “We are
pleased that we were able to come to a resolution in the
merchant litigation.”  The accord includes $6.6 billion in payments to retailers
and a temporary cut in fees that banks earn on each transaction.
Visa’s $4.4 billion share of the settlement would be covered by
an escrow account established in cooperation with U.S. banks
that owned the company before its 2008 initial public offering.
Purchase, New York-based MasterCard, which reports results next
week, said the settlement would cost it $790 million.  Share Repurchases  Operating revenue rose 10 percent to $2.57 billion, beating
the $2.52 billion estimate of 29 analysts.  The company authorized a new $1 billion stock repurchase
program after spending $461 million in the quarter to buy back
about 4 million shares at an average of $115.51 each.  Visa  climbed  2.6 percent to $125.42 at 9:32 a.m. in  New
York . The shares advanced 37 percent in the past 12 months
through yesterday, the third-best  performance  in the 71-company
Standard & Poor’s 500 Information Technology Index.  Visa updated its profit outlook, saying annual earnings-
per-share growth would be in the “low twenties,” up from a May
forecast of “high teens to low twenties,” according to the
statement.  Processed Transactions  Worldwide spending on Visa payment cards climbed to $979
billion, a 6.3 percent increase when adjusted for currency
fluctuations. Processed transactions rose 1 percent to 13.1
billion. Cross-border volume, a measure of spending by
cardholders outside their home countries, advanced 14 percent.  Saunders also overhauled Visa’s fee structure on debit
cards after new U.S. caps took effect in October. The limits on
debit-card fees and processing, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act,
may have helped MasterCard wrest market share from Visa, which
handled about triple the amount of such purchases than its
smaller rival in the fiscal year ended Sept. 30.  “There will be a permanent deterioration in our debit card
volume,” Saunders said on the company’s conference call.
“There is absolutely no question about it,” he said. “I don’t
expect to be close to where we were when the whole thing
started.”  Debit Decline  Visa U.S. debit-card spending dropped 9.4 percent in the
quarter to $266 billion, while credit climbed 9.8 percent to
$246 billion.  The U.S.  Justice Department ’s antitrust division issued a
civil investigative demand on March 13 asking Visa for
information about the new debit-card pricing strategy, Saunders
said in May. Saunders said yesterday that he is “comfortable”
the company’s actions were appropriate.  Saunders has said he intends to generate more than half of
Visa’s revenue from  outside the U.S.  by 2015, up from 44 percent
in fiscal 2011.  Visa’s share of worldwide purchase transactions on credit
and debit cards, including those processed by Visa Europe Ltd.,
fell 1.1 percentage points last year to 64.67 percent as
MasterCard’s share grew by almost 0.5 percentage point to 25.57
percent, according to the Nilson Report, an industry newsletter
based in Carpinteria,  California .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 