-- Visa Europe May Get Antitrust Complaint on Credit Cards, EU Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-25T12:21:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/visa-europe-may-get-antitrust-complaint-on-credit-cards-eu-says.html
Visa Europe Ltd. may receive an
antitrust complaint from European Union regulators over credit
card fees, the EU’s competition commissioner said.  “We are preparing a supplementary statement of
objections,”  Joaquin Almunia  told reporters today.  Visa Europe reduced similar fees for  debit cards  last year
to settle a 2009 EU complaint. Almunia said earlier this month
that he hoped the operator of the largest payment-card network
in the 27-nation EU would reduce cross-border fees for credit
cards and deferred-debit transactions to the same level as
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  He said in May that total costs retailers face
to handle payments haven’t decreased since 2006.  “Visa Europe is committed to continuing dialogue to reach
a commercially acceptable agreement for setting credit and
deferred debit interchange,” said Amanda Kamin, a spokeswoman
for the company in  London . “We believe this can be done
amicably and relatively speedily.”  Visa Inc. (V) , MasterCard and some of the biggest U.S. banks
this month agreed to a U.S. settlement of at least $6.05 billion
in a price-fixing case brought by retailers over credit-card
swipe fees.  Visa Europe split from Visa Inc. before the U.S. card
company’s initial public offering in early 2008.  Retailers have long complained about the cost they are
charged to accept card payments. Unlike for checks, banks charge
interchange fees to process debit- and credit-card payments.
Card operators set the amounts, own the payment networks and
pass the money to the lenders. The retailer’s bank pays the fees
to the customer’s card issuer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 