-- Wacker Cuts 2012 Sales Forecast as Risk of Dropped Orders Seen
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-07-25T06:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/wacker-cuts-2012-sales-forecast-as-risk-of-dropped-orders-seen.html
Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , a German provider
of polysilicon, cut its full-year sales forecast, saying
overcapacity has led to an “extremely competitive” solar-power
market and a glut that may prompt customers to cancel orders.  Wacker now expects revenue of less than the 4.9 billion
euros ($5.9 billion) posted in 2011, the Munich-based company
said today in a statement. The manufacturer had targeted sales
of about 5 billion euros. Wacker reiterated a forecast that
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization
will fall “well short” of last year’s 1.1 billion euros.  Solar-cell makers in the U.S. and  Germany , including  Q-
Cells SE (QCE) , once the industry’s biggest, have filed for bankruptcy
in the past year after struggling against lower-cost Chinese
competitors and a glut. The global supply of photovoltaic panels
is exceeding demand this year while at least 20 gigawatts of
manufacturing capacity will close, according to Bloomberg New
Energy Finance data.  “Ongoing consolidation and overcapacity in the solar
industry are resulting in an extremely competitive market
environment,” Wacker said. “Growing supply-chain inventories
and financing difficulties among market participants could cause
some polysilicon customers to not take full delivery or to delay
taking delivery, or lead to the termination of contracts.”  Second-quarter Ebitda dropped 26 percent to 240.5 million
euros, hurt by price declines, Wacker said. Sales fell 7.8
percent to 1.22 billion euros. Analysts had  predicted  Ebitda of
229.4 million euros and sales of 1.27 billion euros, according
to average estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The chemical maker has lost 16 percent this year in
Frankfurt trading for a market value of 2.72 billion euros. The
 company  is more than 50 percent-owned by the founding family’s
holding company, Dr. Alexander Wacker Familiengesellschaft mbH.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  