-- Weaver Brings Big-Screen Stardom to TV: The Rainer File
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-07-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/weaver-brings-big-screen-stardom-to-tv-the-rainer-file.html
     July 25 (Bloomberg) - Whether battling monsters in outer
space or in  Washington , D.C.,  Sigourney Weaver  gets the job
done.  As former First Lady and current Secretary of State Elaine
Barrish in USA Network’s “Political Animals,” Weaver at first
glance may not remind you much of Ellen Ripley in bikini panties
expelling the alien in “ Alien ” and its three sequels. But both
women have a molten core.  They’re heroines -- or to be more exact, they’re heroes.
Ripley, for one, was originally written as a man.  In an interview last year for about.com, Weaver explained
that she often prefers parts written for men “because I find
that sometimes when it’s written for a woman and it’s a strong
part, they always have some stupid breakdown scene or some
stupid thing that would never really happen.”  The “Alien” films not only made Weaver rich, they also made
her moviedom’s reigning sci-fi queen for almost two decades as
she fought her way through vast vats of green goo, guts and
teeth.  Against all odds, Weaver actually gives full-scale
performances in these “Boo!” movies. In  James Cameron ’s “ Aliens ”
(1986), speaking to the Alien queen, she delivers the immortal
line, “Get away from her, you bitch,” as if she were Medea.  Sexually Charged  Weaver has long been one of the most sexually charged women
in movies, “Aliens” aside. Playing opposite  Mel Gibson  as an
assistant military attache at the British Embassy in  Indonesia 
in “ The Year of Living Dangerously ” (1982), she’s so torrid
that Gibson is rendered dumbstruck.  These two would be working up a sweat even without all that
humidity. You’ve got to see her sashaying her near-six-foot
frame to Jerry Lee Lewis’s “Whole Lotta Shakin’ Goin’ On” in a
scene in the officers club to truly appreciate the roll in rock
‘n roll.  Weaver’s sexuality is heightened by the apparent disconnect
between her patrician exterior and her sizzling interior. She
employs this fissure to fine effect in movies like
“ Eyewitness ” (1981), where she plays a TV newscaster who
achieves melt-down with William Hurt, and in “ Half Moon
Street ” (1986), where she plays an American academic in  London 
who moonlights as a high-priced call girl.  Cool, Hot  She can also play very knowing, almost blase, about her
allure. Her characters don’t suffer fools gladly, especially in
bed. In the suburban downer “ The Ice Storm ” (1997), she is
having an adulterous affair with  Kevin Kline , who in one scene
is prattling on about golf. “You’re boring me,” she says. “I
have a husband. I don’t feel the need for another.” (In happier
times she played First Lady opposite Kline in the 1993 White
House comedy “ Dave .”)  Weaver plays smart and sexy at the same time.  Jane Fonda 
could too, and  Lauren Bacall , but not many others.  Katharine Hepburn , with whom Weaver shares a sharpness and blue-blood
hauteur, was not a sensual creature.  Angelina Jolie , who is no bimbo and probably the only other
actress besides Weaver who can “open” an action picture, has a
masklike beauty that is more forbidding than inviting. Weaver’s
coolness, by contrast, is a come-on. She invites you in, but
you’d better be ready for what you find.  Weaver can also be very funny, even at her own expense. (She
may be the daughter of TV pioneer Sylvester “Pat” Weaver, but
she’s also the niece of comic actor “Doodles” Weaver.)  Don’t Shout  She played right along with  Bill Murray  and the rest of the
guy jokesters in the “ Ghostbusters ” films. In the marvelous
comedy “ Galaxy Quest ” (1999), she plays a crew member on a
“ Star Trek ”-style series who complains that TV Guide is only
interested in talking about her cleavage.  She understands power. In “ Working Girl ” (1988), playing
 Melanie Griffith ’s new Wall Street boss, Weaver speaks in low,
even-tempered tones. She recognizes, as  Meryl Streep  also did in
“ The Devil Wears Prada ,” that the truly powerful don’t need to
raise their voice. In “ Death and the Maiden ” (1995), she binds
and maims the man, played by  Ben Kingsley , she believes once
tortured her as a political prisoner.  Weaver can seem so self-possessed that when she is playing
someone who goes over the edge, as in this film, or as Dian Fossey in “ Gorillas in the Mist ” (1988), her coming-apart is
much more horrific than it might have been with a more
conventional performer.  Recalling 9/11  For much of the past decade, her movies have been largely
forgettable. A few exceptions: Her somber turn in “ The Guys ”
(2002), directed by her husband,  Jim Simpson  and first performed
onstage, as a writer who helps compose eulogies for fallen
firemen after 9/11; the randy, world-weary schoolteacher in
“ Cedar Rapids ” (2011); the creepy voice of the ship’s computer
in “ Wall-E ” (2008); and best of all as Manhattan diva Babe Paley
in “ Infamous ” (2006), dancing to Chubby Checker’s “The Twist.”  At 63, Weaver is down for the two projected “ Avatar ”
sequels. But didn’t she die in “Avatar?” She is fond of
quoting director Cameron: “No one ever dies in science
fiction.”  Least of all Sigourney Weaver.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own).  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and  Greg
Evans  on television.  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  