-- WellPoint Reduces Forecast as Medical Costs Increase
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-25T20:47:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/wellpoint-profit-misses-analyst-estimates-as-costs-increase.html
WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the second-biggest
U.S. health plan, cut its full-year forecast after quarterly
profit missed analyst estimates because of higher medical costs
and falling membership. The shares fell the most since 2008.  Net income will be $7.30 to $7.40 a share, hurt by costs
from this month’s $4.9 billion purchase of Amerigroup Corp.,
Indianapolis-based WellPoint said in a statement. Second-quarter
 earnings  excluding one-time items of $2.04 a share were 4 cents
below the average of 19 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Medical costs have stabilized this year as Americans seek
care after putting it off previously amid high unemployment.
WellPoint said there had been “an uptick” in costs, as well as
a decline in enrollment as the company pulled out of less-
profitable markets.  UnitedHealth Group Inc., (UNH)  the biggest health
plan, last week raised its forecast after increasing its rolls.  The results “put an exclamation point on the differences
between United and WellPoint,” said Carl McDonald, a Citigroup
analyst in  New York , in a note to clients. “United is seeing
medical costs increase this year too, but the uptick is already
incorporated in United’s guidance, something WellPoint’s
management team failed to adequately do.”  The missteps mean “time may be running out for WellPoint’s
management team,” especially when investors compare them with
UnitedHealth’s leadership, McDonald said. “Several large
holders were already frustrated.”  Shares Fall  WellPoint fell 12 percent to $54.01 at 4:15 p.m. New York
time, after in the biggest single day drop since March 2008.
UnitedHealth, based in  Minnetonka ,  Minnesota , declined 4.4
percent to $52.48 and the No. 3 insurer, Hartford, Connecticut-
based  Aetna Inc. (AET) , dropped 4.7 percent.  The lower forecast hurts “a stock that investors already
dislike,”  said Thomas A. Carroll, a Stifel Nicolaus & Co.
analyst in Baltimore, in an e-mail. “There was lots of talk of
medical trends rising and higher utilization. That will have
sector-wide implications.”  Chief Executive Officer Angela Braly has tried to add
business ahead of the 2014 implementation of President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law, which is also expected to squeeze
profits. The company on July 9 announced its deal for
Amerigroup, which specializes in government-backed Medicaid
plans for the poor, and agreed last month to pay $900 million
for eyewear retailer 1-800 Contacts.  ‘Right Action’  “We’re disappointed with the need to lower our guidance,
but believe it’s the right action to take, given the challenging
marketplace we see” and WellPoint’s need to invest, Braly said
on a conference call with analysts today.  WellPoint also missed analyst estimates in last year’s
fourth quarter, after finding costs in some California plans for
Medicare patients were higher than the company had anticipated.
The insurer pulled out of those markets this year.  Membership in its medical plans fell 2.3 percent to 33.5
million, driven down by what Chief Financial Officer Wayne DeVeydt called “the competitive nature of certain markets.”  At the same time, the insurer expanded its Medicare and
Medicaid enrollment, gained an account covering motion-picture
industry employees that will add 100,000 members and has signed
on other private employers for next year, DeVeydt said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Selective’ Approach  “It’s not that we’re not winning in the market,” he said.
“It’s that we’re being selective in the markets and cautious
about not cutting our investments in the future.”  WellPoint said it saw faster growth in its medical bills
for members in the second quarter and now expects costs to grow
“toward the upper half” of its previous projections of 6.5
percent to 7.5 percent this year.  Second-quarter  net income  fell 8.3 percent to $643.6
million, or $1.94, from $701.6 million, or $1.89, a year
earlier, WellPoint said. Revenue increased to $15.4 billion from
$15.1 billion.  The insurer on June 15 said full-year profit was forecast
to be at least $7.57 a share. The company also said that day
that it would pay $90 million this year to settle a lawsuit over
its decision to become a publicly traded company in 2001. That
charge, along with costs from the 1-800 Contacts deal, are being
taken this year, the company said in statements last month. The
 Amerigroup (AGP)  purchase is set to close next year.  UnitedHealth last week also announced second-quarter
earnings that beat analyst estimates as the company increased
membership in its Medicare and Medicaid plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  