-- What ‘7 Habits’ Shared With ‘Das Kapital’
-- B y   M i c k i   M c G e e
-- 2012-07-25T18:07:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/what-7-habits-shared-with-das-kapital-.html
When self-help author and
business motivational speaker Stephen R. Covey died last
week, few would have suspected that his life’s work shared
a central concern with that of  Karl Marx .  Covey’s work held enormous appeal for business
leaders. His numerous bestsellers, starting with “The Seven
Habits of Highly Effective People,” in 1989, were purchased
in bulk by human-resource departments, given away in
management-training programs, and widely read by women and
men straddling that late 20th-century temporal abyss that
came to be known as the work-life divide. The book sold
more than 25 million copies.  Some have suggested that the secret to Covey’s success
was that he distilled the best of what he called “the
wisdom traditions” into an ecumenical, if not entirely
secular, prose. Others argue that Covey’s achievement was
to render these traditions in pithy directives.  But few have suggested that Covey’s success actually
stemmed from his willingness to take on the big problems
that faced his readers: the ways in which the demands of a
free-market economy repeatedly ask us to sacrifice our
values.  Efficiency, Effectiveness  Take Covey’s clarity regarding the distinction between
efficiency and effectiveness. Efficiency, he cautioned, was
only useful with objects. Effectiveness, which involved
considering another person’s point of view, was for dealing
with people.  Marx had expressed a similar concern in the first
chapter of “ Das Kapital ,” in which he lambasted the
emerging mid-19th-century economic order for fostering
“material relations between persons and social relations
between things.” The conditions of waged labor, or work for
hire, required that managers treat laborers as things, as
instrumental to the processes of production, and expendable
when no longer useful.  While Marx counseled global proletarian revolution,
Covey argued for a capitalism mitigated by morality.  Effective people, Covey argued, found ways to avoid
treating others as though they were objects. Effective
managers not only demanded productivity from their
employees, but also fostered their “production capacity,”
or their ability to continue to be productive. Leaders were
those who focused on the cultivation of character rather
than the shallow appeal of salesmanship or personality.  Covey was old-fashioned in that he asked his readers
to direct their lives according to a moral compass. In
fact, the image of a compass became the trademark of his
company.  He took seriously the problems created by contemporary
capitalism and the challenges people faced in their
workplaces. He had made a study of industrial-relations
training and self-help literature, earning a doctoral
degree in 1976 from  Brigham Young University  with a
dissertation that explored the overlaps between human-
relations training and religious education. Although his
dissertation is often characterized as a study in
organizational management, it’s worth noting that the
degree conferred was in religious education.  ‘Shrinking God’  As a person concerned with religious training, Covey
followed a trend as old as the self-help genre: repackaging
traditional moral and religious discourses in popular
secular prose. His directive that one “think win-win” is a
sporty makeover of the Golden Rule. And his adage “begin
with the end in mind” -- which asks readers to imagine the
speeches at their funerals -- comes straight out of the
pages of Cotton Mather’s “Essays to Do Good” in 1710.  Although Covey always claimed his work was secular
advice, he made no secret of drawing on spiritual texts for
inspiration and advised his readers to do likewise.  Like many of the classics of self-improvement
literature -- from Samuel Smiles’s “Self-Help” (1859) to
Norman Vincent Peale’s “The Power of Positive Thinking”
(1952) to M. Scott Peck’s “The Road Less Traveled” (1978) -
- Covey’s books engaged in what sociologist Wendy Simonds
has called “shrinking God”: Providing the sort of counsel
that people once sought almost exclusively from spiritual
texts or religious leaders. Self-help literature offers a
hybrid of secular and spiritual advice and consolation,
yielding what one might think of as “moral values lite.”  Unlike many popular motivational authors, Covey never
went in for the get-rich-quick schemes. Rather, he aimed to
foster character, and in so doing, hoped to encourage a
kinder, gentler capitalism that remained elusive in the
painful era when the terms “downsizing” and “rightsizing”
were coined. Despite the dubious effectiveness of
individual solutions to problems that are global and
systemic, Covey believed in a capitalism that could be
redeemed by individual virtue, by better character and
stronger morals.  Marx, on the other hand, understood that economic
forces are too powerful, and far too important, to be
governed by individual conscious.  If our current economy offers any measure, Covey’s
call to character building failed to provide a formidable
enough antidote to the casino-style capitalism of recent
years. Even so, his contribution has been considerable. The
perennial popularity of his work is evidence that working
people the world over continue to grapple with the
contradictions between the values of market competition and
more communitarian concerns.  And who knows: At some point, they may just help
themselves.  (Micki McGee is the author of “Self-Help, Inc:
Makeover Culture in American Life” and teaches in the
department of sociology and anthropology at  Fordham
University . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Micki McGee at
 mmcgee@fordham.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 