-- Wisconsin Governor Recall Fight Cost $81 Million, Report Says
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-07-25T16:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/wisconsin-governor-recall-fight-cost-81-million-report-says.html
The tab on this year’s unsuccessful
bid to oust Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker  came to almost $81
million, more than double the amount spent on any previous
single race in the state, according to a report by Wisconsin
Democracy Campaign, which tracks political finance.  Walker and Republican groups supporting him spent $58.7
million, compared with the $22 million that Democratic
challenger  Tom Barrett  and his allies paid, the  report  says.  The nonpartisan group, based in Madison, Wisconsin,
reviewed campaign finance reports, television advertising buys
and outside electioneering activity such as direct-mail and
radio ads, to arrive at the total recall cost.  The report also examines other recall races in 2011 and
2012, for lieutenant governor and state Senate posts,
calculating that all of those races, including Walker’s, cost
$137.5 million. Outside groups accounted for more than half of
that total.  Walker’s campaign spent $36.1 million on the recall, more
than three times what he invested in his 2010 election, the
report shows.  Presidential Donors  The governor’s campaign finance reports show that 70
percent of his top 37 recall campaign contributors live in
states other than Wisconsin, according to the report. These
donors include Houston homebuilder Bob Perry and Las Vegas
casino billionaire  Sheldon Adelson .  Both are spending millions in an effort to help presumptive
Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney  defeat President
 Barack Obama  in November’s general election.  The Wisconsin Democracy Campaign also found that Americans
for Prosperity, a nonprofit group started by energy billionaire
 David Koch  of Koch Industries, spent an estimated $3.7 million
backing Walker during the recall effort.  Americans for Prosperity, which can raise unlimited amounts
without reporting its donors, has spent an estimated $12 million
on 16,501 TV ads in the presidential race, according to Kantar
Media’s CMAG, a New York-based company that tracks political
ads.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  