-- Women Live Retirement in Poverty at Higher Rates Than Men
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-07-25T20:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/women-seen-living-retirement-in-poverty-at-higher-rates-than-men.html
Women age 65 and older live in
poverty at higher rates than men even as more of them
participate in employer-sponsored  retirement plans , according to
a U.S. Government Accountability Office study.  The median income for women in that age group was about 25
percent lower than for men from 1998 to 2009, and they were
twice as likely to live in poverty, according to the  report ,
“Retirement Security: Women Still Face Challenge,” which was
released today.  Retired women continue to rely on Social Security at higher
rates than retired men, with 16 percent of women and 12 percent
of men age 65 and older depending on those payments as their
only income in 2010, according to the report.  “Several factors contribute to the higher rate of poverty
among elderly women including their tendency to have lower
lifetime earnings, take time out of the workforce to care for
family members, and outlive their spouses,” according to the
study.  Divorce and widowhood had “detrimental effects” for
retired women or those entering retirement, and took more of a
toll on women’s finances than on men’s, the report said.  While women’s participation in defined-contribution
retirement plans increased, they contributed less to those plans
than men did, according to the study.  The study’s findings were reported today at a Senate
Special Committee on Aging hearing. Discussion centered on
improving the  Social Security Administration ’s communication
with the public about waiting longer to claim benefits.  “SSA has a responsibility to educate people about their
options, and it needs to make sure people understand just how
much money they are losing when they take their benefits sooner
rather than later,” said Senator  Herb Kohl , the Wisconsin
Democrat who led the hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  