-- World’s Biggest Pension Fund Sells JGBs to Cover Payouts
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   Y u m i   I k e d a
-- 2012-07-26T01:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/world-s-biggest-pension-fund-sells-jgbs-to-cover-payouts.html
Japan ’s  public pension fund , the
world’s largest, said it has been selling domestic  government
bonds  as the number of people eligible for retirement payments
increases.  “Payouts are getting bigger than insurance revenue, so we
need to sell Japanese government bonds to raise cash,” said
Takahiro Mitani, president of the Government Pension Investment
Fund, which oversees 113.6 trillion yen ($1.45 trillion). “To
boost returns, we may have to consider investing in new assets
beyond conventional ones,” he said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday.  Japan’s population is aging, and  baby boomers  born in the
wake of World War II are beginning to reach 65 and become
eligible for pensions. That’s putting GPIF under pressure to
sell JGBs to cover the increase in payouts. The fund needs to
raise about 8.87 trillion yen this fiscal year, Mitani said in
an interview in April. As part of its effort to diversify assets
and generate higher returns, GPIF recently started investing in
emerging market stocks.  GPIF is historically one of the biggest buyers of Japanese
debt and held 71.9 trillion yen, or 63 percent of its assets, in
domestic bonds as of March, according to the fund’s  financial
statement  for the 2011 fiscal year. That compares with 13
percent in domestic stocks, 8.7 percent in foreign bonds and 11
percent in overseas equities.  Emerging Stocks  The fund named six institutions including Nomura Asset
Management Co. and Mizuho Asset Management Co. to manage its
emerging market stocks portfolio, according to a statement on
its website earlier this month. The investments will be focused
on countries in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF) , which tracks 21
nations including Brazil,  Russia ,  India ,  China ,  South Korea ,
Taiwan and  South Africa .  “We started with a small amount very recently,” Mitani
said yesterday, without elaborating.  Mitani also declined to say whether the fund’s performance
since April is matching last year’s  total return  of 2.32
percent. “Our performance is not that good so far this year due
to the yen’s strength and losses in domestic and overseas
stocks,” he said.  The market environment may remain “favorable” for Japan’s
debt over the next couple of years on prospects that the  Bank of
Japan (8301)  will keep easing monetary policy to meet its 1 percent
inflation goal, according to Mitani.  GPIF is the biggest pension fund in the world by assets
under management, according to the Towers Watson Global 300
 survey  in September, followed by Norway’s government pension
fund.  Bond Yields  The yield on 10-year Japanese government notes climbed one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.73 percent as of
10:30 a.m. in  Tokyo . The rate closed at 0.72 percent yesterday,
matching the lowest level since June 2003, when it fell to a
record 0.43 percent. Bonds with a maturity of up to three years
all yield about 0.1 percent as the central bank buys these
securities through its asset-purchase program.  The prolonged debt crisis in  Europe  has added to demand for
yen-denominated assets, sending the currency to 77.94 per dollar
this week, the strongest since June 1. Against the euro the yen
reached 94.12, a level unseen since November 2000.  “There isn’t much value in short-term notes as the BOJ’s
massive asset purchases have made their yields extremely low,”
said Mitani. “I would say the current 0.7 percent level for 10-
year yields is a bit too low, because we have to take into
account that there are flight-to-quality bids in JGBs because of
the European crisis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  