-- Worse Euro Crisis Needed for Germany to Yield: Tom Keene
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   F a i r c h i l d   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-07-25T18:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/worse-euro-crisis-needed-for-germany-to-yield-tom-keene.html
Europe  won’t be able to resolve its
debt crisis until the economy worsens, pushing Germany to allow
support for Spain and Italy, said  Julian Callow , chief
international economist at Barclays Plc in  London .  “We’re going to see Spain and Italy arguing more and more
forcefully to Germany that the current strategy is not
working,” Callow said today in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “These economies are just
sinking here, putting the pressure on Germany.”  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s ability to offer support
to other European nations may be curbed by voter opposition
before federal elections in Europe’s largest economy next year,
Callow said. A worsening economic outlook would increase
pressure for action, he said.  “It only really gets addressed as the economy gets worse
and worse, and, moreover, as the pressures build up,” Callow
said. “There’s an election in Germany scheduled for September
next year and  Chancellor Merkel  has her eye on that.”  He said German public opinion is “turning quite
significantly against” providing more financing.  Europe’s debt crisis intensified this week as Moody’s
Investors Service cut the outlooks on the Aaa credit ratings of
Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg to negative.  Euro Exit  The risk that  Greece  will leave the euro area and
“increasing likelihood” of collective support for countries in
debt such as Spain and Italy were among reasons for the change,
Moody’s said in a statement on July 23.  Spain’s two-year note yield fell from a euro-era record
after European Central Bank council member Ewald Nowotny said
there are arguments in favor of giving the European Stability
Mechanism, the permanent bailout fund, a banking license. Callow
did not predict that the ECB will support Nowotny’s proposal
under current conditions.  “The ECB has made it very plain,” Callow said. “Its
interpretation of the EU Treaty is that it’s not authorized to
be able to lend to this new fund, the ESM.”  Granting a banking license to Europe’s permanent bailout
fund would give it access to ECB lending, easing concerns that
its 500 billion-euro ($608 billion) cash pot won’t be enough if
Spain or Italy requires aid. Callow said that Chancellor Merkel
would have to find a way to give an opinion or revise the treaty
if the banking license were to come to fruition.  “That, therefore, is going to be some way off,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Fairchild in  New York  at 
 cfairchild2@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  