-- Zynga Misses Sales, Profit Estimates; Shares Slide
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-07-26T21:07:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-25/zynga-misses-estimates-as-users-flee-social-games-for-mobile.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest developer of
games played on  Facebook Inc. (FC) ’s  social  network, fell the most
since its December initial public offering after missing
analysts’ second-quarter revenue and profit estimates.  The  shares  fell 37 percent to $3.18 at the close in  New
York , leaving the stock down 68 percent since its IPO. Facebook,
which posted its first quarterly results as a public company
after the market closed today, tumbled 8.5 percent to $26.85 in
response to Zynga’s report.  Zynga blamed the shortfall in part on Facebook, saying
changes to the site made it harder for users to find existing
games. It’s also competing with a growing number of applications
on the social network and mobile devices. A drop in sales of
virtual goods from the first quarter is a sign of fatigue among
users, said Arvind Bhatia, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach
Inc.  “It’s a disaster,” said Bhatia, who is based in  Dallas .
“It’s starting to look more and more like a fad, and any hope
of a second-half recovery is shot with these kinds of numbers.”  Zynga yesterday said second-quarter sales were $332.5
million, less than the average $343.1 million analyst projection
compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding some items, profit was 1 cent a
share, less than the 6-cent estimate.  Facebook Link  Zynga, based in  San Francisco , makes money by selling
virtual goods within its games -- say, a gun in “Mafia Wars”
or a tractor in “FarmVille.”  Zynga cut its 2012 outlook for bookings, a measure of sales
of virtual goods, citing Facebook’s website changes, which
deterred users from returning to play older games. The social
network is highlighting new games at the expense of more
established titles, John Schappert, chief operating officer of
Zynga, said in a telephone interview.  Facebook “changed some of the algorithms for surfacing,
which affected player engagement,” Schappert said. Posts in a
player’s news feed that promote a game and requests they send to
invite their friends are no longer as prevalent, he said.  Lower Forecast  Zynga said 2012 bookings will be $1.15 billion to $1.23
billion, down from an April projection of $1.43 billion to $1.5
billion. Zynga also said it expects 2012 earnings, excluding
some items, of 4 cents to 9 cents a share, compared with a prior
range of 23 cents to 29 cents.  The lower forecast was also prompted by a delay in the
introduction of “The Ville,” a real-world simulation game
Zynga released last month, and user declines in “Draw
Something,” the mobile game it acquired with its $180 million
purchase of OMGPop Inc. in March.  The company makes the five most popular games played on
 Facebook , according to AppData. “Texas HoldEm Poker,” with
35.2 million monthly active users, and “Bubble Safari,” with
28.2 million users, top the social gaming charts.  Three of Zynga’s oldest games accounted for 60 percent of
its revenue in the quarter, with “FarmVille” contributing 29
percent of sales, poker making up 18 percent, and “CityVille”
generating 13 percent, Chief Financial Officer Dave Wehner said
on a call with analysts yesterday.  Gambling Next?  Zynga plans to enter real-money gambling by the middle of
2013, pending regulatory approval, Schappert said.  “We are actively pursuing the development of a product in
real-money gaming. It is not for the U.S. -- it is for
international” markets, he said.  The company posted a second-quarter net loss of $22.8
million, or 3 cents a share, compared with net income of $1.4
million, or break-even, a year earlier.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Pincus   gained  more than half
of the voting power over the company’s board, the company said
in a separate filing. Pincus accumulated the  voting rights  as a
result of sales or transfers of shares by other shareholders of
the company’s Class B stock, the filing said.  Zynga expanded its board last week as it named former
Yahoo! Inc. executive Ellen Siminoff its first female director.  The company expects to spend hundreds of millions of
dollars acquiring game developers over the next three to five
years, Pincus told Bloomberg in an interview earlier this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  