-- ‘Dark Knight Rises’ Weekend Sales Total $160.9 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/-dark-knight-rises-weekend-sales-total-160-9-million.html
Warner Bros .’ “The  Dark Knight 
Rises” posted weekend ticket sales of $160.9 million in the
U.S. and  Canada , below projections made before 12 people died in
a shooting at a midnight screening in Aurora,  Colorado .  Warner Bros., based in  Burbank ,  California , announced the
total yesterday in an e-mail. The studio had withheld weekend
box-office figures, citing concern for the victims of the July
20 shooting rampage and their families, and curtailed its
promotion of the picture.  “I think they followed a smart strategy,” said  Howard
Suber , a founding director of the  University of California  Los
Angeles’ film and TV producers program. “The basic thing to do
in a situation like this is to shut up. It’s like the
presidential candidates had to give up campaigning for the
weekend. Nobody wanted to hear them.”  The sales still place the picture among the top weekend
openings ever, according to  Box Office Mojo , an online
researcher tracking ticket sales. The 2008 film “The Dark
Knight,” with $158.4 million in opening-weekend sales, was
ranked third after “Marvel’s The Avengers” and “ Harry Potter 
and the Deathly Hallows,” the site says.  Before the July 20 violence at the  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK) 
theater, the film was expected to generate $170 million to $198
million in its first three days, the estimates of researchers
Fizziology and Boxoffice.com.  Sales on Saturday, July 21, fell 41 percent from Friday.
Such a decline isn’t uncommon for highly anticipated films that
open with midnight showings, said  Paul Dergarabedian , president
of Hollywood.com Box-Office.  Similar Track  “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, Part 2,” the final
film in the Potter franchise, dropped 53 percent from Friday to
Saturday, Dergarabedian said.  James Holmes, 24, was arrested near the cinema after the
shootings, and was held on suspicion of first-degree murder.  Before a packed courtroom in Colorado District Court in
Centennial, a suburb of Denver, Judge William Sylvester
yesterday advised Holmes of his rights and set a July 30 hearing
for formal charges. Clad in red prison clothing and with his
hair dyed orange, Holmes sat in the jury box with a defense
lawyer, blinking often while occasionally staring at his hands.  The shooter in Aurora wore a gas mask, similar to a mask
worn by the villain Bane in the film, and tossed tear gas into
the auditorium before opening fire at 12:30 a.m., according to
witnesses.  Warner Bros. (TWX)  said yesterday that it made an unspecified
donation to a fund that will aid surviving victims of the 
shooting and family members of the 12 who were killed.   The studio worked with Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper
to identify the Community First Foundation’s Aurora Victim
Relief Fund, according to Susan Fleishman, a spokeswoman.   Time Warner Inc., parent of Warner Bros.,  fell  3.5 percent
to $37.49 yesterday in  New York , the biggest drop since Nov. 9.
The stock has gained 3.7 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  