-- ‘Dark Knight’ Weekend Sales Below Estimates, Analyst Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-07-23T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/-dark-knight-weekend-sales-below-estimates-analyst-says.html
Ticket sales for  Warner Bros .’ “The
 Dark Knight  Rises” came in below projections made before a
shooting at a premiere of the movie killed 12 people in Aurora,
Colorado, according to an analyst.  The movie earned in the range of $155 million to $165
million, estimates Jeff Bock, an analyst for Exhibitor Relations
Co. Before the violence at the  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK)  theater,
it was expected to generate $170 million to $198 million in its
first three days, the estimates of researchers Fizziology and
Boxoffice.com.  That would still place the film among the top five weekend
openings ever, according to Box Office Mojo, an online
publication tracking ticket sales. The first in the series,
“The Dark Knight,” with $158.4 million in opening weekend
sales, is ranked third after “Marvel’s The Avengers” and
“ Harry Potter  and the Deathly Hallows,” the site says.  Some families may have made other plans after the shooting,
“and the casual fan may have turned away as well,” Bock said.
“Everybody’s very mindful of it.”  Warner Bros., owned by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) , and other
Hollywood studios aren’t reporting official sales figures, with
some issuing statements citing sensitivity to the victims.
Studios typically report figures for weekend sales every Sunday.
Warner, based in Burbank, California, also has curbed promotion
of the movie, one of the year’s most anticipated.  Lined Up  “Out of respect for the victims and their families, Warner
Bros. Pictures will not be reporting box office numbers for ‘The
Dark Knight Rises’ throughout the weekend,” Warner Bros. said
in a statement on July 20. “Box office numbers will be released
on Monday.”  Warner Bros. canceled its Paris premiere and some network
TV spots were pulled, people familiar with the situation said.
The studio also scrapped plans for events in Tokyo and Mexico
City, the Los Angeles Times reported, citing a person familiar
with the matter.  Two analysts, Bock and  Paul Dergarabedian , president of
Hollywood.com Box-Office, both estimated the total from July 20
at as much as $80 million. Both said projections are difficult
because of the unprecedented circumstances.  Dergarabedian said he saw a line around the block for the
movie in Los Angeles Saturday night. Bock said he didn’t see any
extra security at his Los Angeles screening.  Copycat Concern  At the AMC Empire 25 theater on 42nd Street in  New York 
Saturday night, police were posted outside as moviegoers stood
in line for as long as two hours for the 6:20 p.m. show.  “We bought the tickets four days ago, we’re excited about
it,” said Lauren Perciballi, 26, the first person in line. “I
felt horrible about what happened in  Colorado , but I don’t think
I would change my plans, it just scared me a little bit.”  Perciballi and other patrons said they were being more
cautious in light of the violence, and had some concern about
copycats. She and her companion, Luis Sanchez, 25, said they
arrived early because they expected metal detectors or police to
be searching patrons.  “I’m not worried, I’m very upset,” said Sidney Stroman,
48, with his children, Justin, 14, and Jordan, 9. “But I am
going to sit near an exit, just in case. I don’t want to be
stuck in the middle of a theater and get trampled over.”  In the film, Batman comes out of retirement to battle Bane,
a powerful villain who incites class warfare in an attempt to
take control of Gotham.  Financial Ruin  Television ads show a masked Bane declaring his plan to
“liberate” Gotham City and explosions that destroy a football
stadium. Bane is also seen confronting Batman on the streets of
Gotham.  Christian Bale  reprises his role as Batman and  Tom Hardy 
portrays Bane. The film also features  Anne Hathaway  as Catwoman.
Cast members from the previous films, including  Gary Oldman ,
 Michael Caine  and  Morgan Freeman , also return.  The film features a grim and despairing tone.  Set eight years after “The Dark Knight,” Wayne is hobbled
by his many injuries from previous battles and is facing
financial ruin with the near collapse of his Wayne Industries
empire. Bane’s populist appeal to pit rich against poor prompted
some critics to draw comparisons to the “Occupy” movement.  The shooter in Aurora wore a gas mask, similar to a mask
worn by Bane in the film, and tossed tear gas into the
auditorium before firing at 12:30 a.m., according to witness
accounts. James Holmes, 24, was arrested later in the parking
lot of the shopping mall that housed the theater.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  