-- ThaiBev Said to Pick Banks to Finance F&N Stake Purchase
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 2012-07-23T06:27:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/thaibev-said-to-pick-banks-to-finance-f-n-stake-purchase.html
Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) , Thailand’s
biggest beer maker, is in talks with three banks to help provide
financing for its purchase of a $2.2 billion stake in  Fraser and
Neave Ltd. (FNN) , said two people with knowledge of the matter.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  and  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ’s lending unit are working on a so-
called bridge loan to support the transaction, the people said,
asking not to be identified because the details are private. A
bridge facility is a short-term loan used until a company
secures permanent financing.  Thai Beverage, controlled by Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s TCC Group and known as ThaiBev, last week
agreed to pay S$2.78 billion ($2.2 billion) for a 22 percent
stake in Fraser and Neave held by  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) 
and its partners.  Charoen’s son-in-law will spend S$920.2 million buying
stakes in  Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. (APB)  from OCBC and its
insurance unit  Great Eastern Holdings Ltd. (GE) , ThaiBev said on July
18. Fraser and Neave,  Singapore ’s biggest beverage maker, owns
40 percent of Asia Pacific Breweries.  ThaiBev would finance the entire transaction through the
loan, said one of the people. The company had $108 million of
cash and near-cash items as of March 31, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Terence Foo, a Singapore-based spokesman for
ThaiBev at public relations firm Kreab Gavin Anderson, declined
to comment on the financing.  Shares of ThaiBev fell 2.7 percent to 35.5 Singapore cents
at 2.06 p.m. today. Asia Pacific Breweries jumped as much as 18
percent to S$49.50 before trading at S$48.70, while Fraser and
Neave gained 4.5 percent to S$7.93.  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-largest brewer, last week
offered $6 billion to acquire full control of Asia Pacific
Breweries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  