-- AIG Could Create Value With Hartford Unit, Bernstein Says
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-23T20:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/aig-could-create-value-with-hartford-unit-bernstein-says.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer  majority-owned  by the U.S. government, could create
value for shareholders by buying a unit of  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG) , a Sanford C. Bernstein analyst said.  “The idea of buying something from Hartford, who’s in a
forced-sale process because they have to satisfy their
investors, and have gone through their own challenging period,
that sort of thing is generally one that you’d be supportive
of,” Josh Stirling, an analyst for Bernstein, said in a phone
interview today. “This is more likely buying assets at
reasonable value that are tactical” and could boost AIG’s
revenue while reducing back-office costs, he said.  AIG may be negotiating to buy Hartford’s independent
broker-dealer Woodbury Financial Services, InvestmentNews
reported yesterday, citing two people with knowledge of the
matter who weren’t identified. Hartford said on March 21 that it
was seeking buyers for Woodbury as part of a plan to focus on
its property-casualty business, after calls by hedge-fund
manager  John Paulson  to break the company in two.  “This is probably a small transaction for AIG,” rather
than one that would transform its business, said Stirling. AIG
already has its own independent broker-dealer, he said.  Jay Wintrob, the head of New York-based AIG’s life insurer,
didn’t rule out an acquisition of some Hartford units, when
asked at a conference on March 22. AIG, which has been selling
assets to repay a 2008 government bailout that swelled to $182.3
billion, had been “acquisitive” in the past and would continue
to look at purchasing assets, he said at the conference.  A deal could be announced before Woodbury’s national sales
conference in mid-August, InvestmentNews reported.  Shannon Lapierre , a spokeswoman for Hartford, and AIG’s Jim Ankner declined to comment on the potential sale.  Hartford, based in the Connecticut city of the same name,
fell 1.2 percent to $16.08 in  New York  trading. AIG declined 1.1
percent to $30.68.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  