-- Thailand’s Raw Sugar Premium Seen High on Limited Western Supply
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-23T12:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/thailand-s-raw-sugar-premium-seen-high-on-limited-western-supply.html
The premium buyers pay for raw sugar
from  Thailand , the second-biggest exporter, is “high” because
of limited supplies from the Western Hemisphere, according to
Green Pool Commodity Specialists Pty Ltd.  Raw sugar from Thailand is being offered at $3 to $3.20 a
pound above the price on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York , Green
Pool, a Brisbane-based research company, said in a report e-
mailed today. It was for sale at $2.60 a pound a week earlier.  “Thai raw premiums were steady but not traded as Western
Hemisphere supplies are still rickety,” Tom McNeill, a director
at the Brisbane, Australia-based company, said in a weekly
report e-mailed today.  Above-average rainfall last month in Brazil, the world’s
largest producer, delayed the crop and shipments. Sugar output
in  Brazil ’s center south, its main growing region, fell 29
percent to 6.7 million metric tons from the start of the 2012-13
season through the end of June compared with a year earlier,
according to industry group Unica.  In  India , the world’s second-biggest producer, local prices
rose to the highest in 18 months because of lack of rains,
Green Pool said. The monsoon, which brings more than 70 percent
of the country’s annual rainfall, was 22 percent lower than a
50-year average since June 1, the weather bureau said July 15.  “People remember 2009, when a similar deficit in the
monsoon caused estimates of the crop to be reduced by 5 million
tons,” Paul Bannister, head of the sugar brokerage at Marex
Spectron Group in  London , said in a report e-mailed today. “A
sensible ’worst case scenario’ would therefore be to the order
of a 3 million tons loss.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 