-- Thailand May Join Philippines Keeping Rates as Growth Holds
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-07-24T05:19:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/thailand-may-join-philippines-resisting-rate-cut-as-growth-holds.html
Thailand and the Philippines will
probably refrain from cutting  interest rates  this week as the
Southeast Asian economies withstand a global growth slowdown
that spurred policy easing from  Brazil  to  China .  The Bank of Thailand will keep its benchmark unchanged at 3
percent for a fourth straight meeting tomorrow, according to all
13 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . Eleven of the 14
analysts in a separate survey forecast the Philippines will hold
rates at 4 percent the next day, even as more predicted a
reduction this month than for the June meeting.  Both countries forecast growth as fast as 6 percent in 2012,
aided by  government spending  in the Philippines and post-flood
reconstruction in Thailand, which this month marks 15 years
since its baht devaluation sparked the Asian financial crisis.
Inflation risks may also re-emerge and crimp scope for easing as
a U.S. drought pushes corn and soybean to records and India’s
monsoon shortfall threatens rice output in the No. 2 producer.  “Monetary policies in Southeast Asia are fairly
accommodative and that’s enough to support growth for now,”
said  Aninda Mitra , Singapore-based head of Southeast Asian
economics at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “The
scope to cut rates is tempting but it will be too premature at
this point, as inflation risks could be exacerbated.”  Shares Fall  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of regional shares dropped
today to its lowest level this month as Europe’s deepening
sovereign-debt woes spurred outflows from  emerging markets .
Moody’s Investors Service cut its credit rating outlooks on
Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg to negative yesterday,
citing “rising uncertainty” about the region’s crisis.  The  International Monetary Fund  last week cut its global
growth forecast for next year to 3.9 percent, and the  Asian
Development Bank  said the region’s economies may need to ease
monetary and fiscal policies further, after reducing its
predictions for expansion for 2012 and 2013.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has some scope to adjust
monetary policy to “protect the inflation target on the
downside” as price gains remain manageable, Governor Amando Tetangco said today. Average inflation will probably be closer
to the lower end of the central bank’s target range of 3 percent
to 5 percent for this year and next, he said. Policy makers will
monitor domestic and global developments, particularly commodity
prices, capital flows and growth prospects, he said.  ’Insurance’ Cut  “A rate cut would be more of an insurance to protect the
growth momentum, especially now when renewed uncertainties in
the  euro zone  have resurfaced,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , Manila-
based chief market strategist at BDO Unibank Inc., who predicts
a half-a-percentage-point cut.  Benchmark government peso bonds due February 2032 gained
today, according to prices from Tradition Financial Services.
The yield has fallen 35 basis points, or 0.35 percentage point,
this month, after the country won an upgrade in its debt rating
from  Standard & Poor’s  to the highest level since 2003.  South  Korea , which unexpectedly lowered borrowing costs
July 12, may report the slowest growth since 2009 for the second
quarter. The country’s  economy  expanded 2.5 percent from a year
earlier last quarter, compared with a 2.8 percent pace in the
previous three months, according to the median estimate of 15
economists surveyed ahead of a July 26 report.  Samsung Sales  Weaker demand may cap overseas sales at South Korea’s
largest companies, with Samsung Electronics Co. posting second-
quarter sales that trailed estimates. South Korean
manufacturers’ confidence fell to the lowest level in four
months for July while  consumer confidence  dropped to a three-
month low in June, according to  Bank of Korea  reports.  Gross domestic product probably grew 0.5 percent from the
previous quarter, slowing from a 0.9 percent pace, according to
the median estimate of 13 economists. The Bank of Korea lowered
its 2012 growth forecast to 3 percent from an earlier estimate
of 3.5 percent on July 13, a day after it unexpectedly cut its
benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point to 3 percent.  Separately, the  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand  will maintain
its official cash rate at a record-low 2.5 percent on July 26,
according to all 16 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
Governor Alan Bollard has kept borrowing costs unchanged since
March 2011 to boost growth that was hurt by last year’s deadly
earthquake in the city of Christchurch.  Seven of nine members of a so-called shadow board set up by
the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research Inc. said the
central bank should hold the benchmark rate again. Two members
of the panel comprised of economists, academics and company
executives preferred a rate cut.  Core Inflation  Price gains in the Philippines and Thailand are still lower
than in neighbors including Indonesia and Vietnam. Consumer
prices in the Philippines rose 2.8 percent in June from a year
earlier, after climbing 2.9 percent in May.  In  Thailand , consumer prices increased 2.56 percent from a
year earlier in June. Core inflation, which excludes fresh food
and fuel costs and is used by the central bank to guide monetary
policy, was 1.92 percent last month.  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said in
June authorities have room to adjust borrowing costs if needed.  Thailand “will likely maintain the key rate at 3 percent
until the end of the year,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “We don’t
expect any surprises unless Europe collapses, which of course
will prompt a further rate cut. If the economy continues to be
strong, we may see a more hawkish statement later this year and
probably a rate hike next year.”  Raising Wages  Thai Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra has raised minimum
wages and will spend as much as 2 trillion baht ($63 billion)
over seven years on infrastructure projects to boost growth
after last year’s floods. The $346 billion economy unexpectedly
expanded 0.3 percent from a year earlier in the first quarter,
after contracting 8.9 percent in the previous three months.  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino , who marked his second
year in office in June, is increasing state spending to a record
this year as he seeks $16 billion of investments in roads and
airports. The $225 billion economy expanded 6.4 percent in the
first quarter, the fastest pace since 2010.  Aquino, in an annual state-of-the-nation address yesterday,
asked lawmakers to help bolster the government’s share of
resource contracts and raise excise taxes on tobacco and alcohol,
while pledging to improve infrastructure to attract investment
and create jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  