-- Make Investment Bankers Liable for Losses First, Berenberg Says
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-07-23T13:22:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/make-investment-bankers-liable-for-losses-first-berenberg-says.html
Investment banks should be
transformed to more closely resemble private partnerships in
which employees are responsible for losses before investors,
according to James Chappell, an analyst at German private bank
Berenberg Bank.  Variable compensation should be paid in long-term capital
adequacy buffer securities, or CABS, which would mean losses for
bankers and traders if their decisions backfired, Chappell wrote
in a July 20 client note. That, combined with an increase in
capital, would help restore confidence in the industry, he said.  “CABS would fulfill two main purposes,” he wrote.
“Firstly, they would align employees’ interests with those of
other stakeholders, and secondly they would add to the capital
buffer.”  Investor confidence in the financial industry has fallen
after regulators announced probes into the manipulation of
benchmark  interest rates  including the  London  interbank offered
rate, the basis for $500 trillion of securities.  “In their current form, we do not believe that the
investment banks should be owned by long-term equity
shareholders,” wrote Chappell, an analyst at Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. in London from 2001 to 2009 before joining Hamburg,
Germany-based Berenberg Bank, the world’s oldest private bank.  ‘Hard-Wired’ Banks  Ideally, banks should be split up into retail and
investment banking operations though that may not be possible
considering “investment banks have hard-wired themselves into
the system and remain too big to fail,” Chappell said.  Even if economic conditions improve, investment banks will
struggle to achieve returns sufficient to attract investors
because revenues have been permanently dented, Chappell said.  The 43-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index  is down 8.3 percent this year.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are among firms that could see their share
prices fall another 20 percent as they struggle to cut costs and
raise capital, Chappell wrote.  Planned regulation that forces over-the-counter derivatives
to be centrally cleared could reduce revenues by 25 percent,
Berenberg estimated, because of a jump in transaction costs and
the requirement for additional collateral by clearing houses.  One solution would be to pay bankers’ bonuses in CABS,
which would leave employees responsible first in the event of
losses, Chappell wrote in the note. If CABS had been in place in
2007,  capital ratios  would be double where they are, he said.  Firms should cut costs by 30 percent and staunch all
bonuses until capital levels are boosted. That can only be
assessed using a simple  leverage ratio , rather than relying on
banks’ internal risk-weighting models, Berenberg said.  On this basis, Deutsche Bank has a capital shortfall of 20
billion euros ($24.2 billion), Credit Suisse 20 billion Swiss
francs ($20.2 billion) and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  5 billion pounds ($7.8
billion), Chappell estimated.  “We believe the  Basel  capital rules have now become a
mathematical odyssey,” he wrote. “An outside observer has no
way to fully understand their impact on a bank, and we remain
deeply skeptical of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  