-- Halliburton Beats Analysts’ Estimates on International Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-07-23T20:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/halliburton-quarterly-profit-falls-on-inflated-fracking-costs.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest
provider of hydraulic-fracturing services, said international
sales climbed as the rig count and profit margin grew in the
Eastern Hemisphere.  Net income dropped to $737 million, or 79 cents a share,
from $739 million, or 80 cents, a year earlier, Houston-based
Halliburton said in a statement today. Excluding a one-time
charge of 1 cent, the company beat by 5 cents the average of 28
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. International sales
climbed 24 percent to $3 billion, and total sales climbed 22
percent to $7.23 billion.  The world’s second-largest oilfield-services provider helps
companies drill and complete oil and natural-gas wells using a
pressure-pumping technique known as fracking, which blasts water
mixed with sand and chemicals underground to free trapped
hydrocarbons from shale formations.  “Overall pretty strong results,” James C. West, a New
York-based analyst at Barclays Capital Inc., said today in a
telephone interview. “The big story this quarter definitely was
the international revenue growth.”  West rates Halliburton shares at overweight, which means
investors should buy the stock, and doesn’t own any.  Eastern Hemisphere  The company’s region that includes Europe, Africa and
 Russia  reported an operating profit margin of 13.8 percent.
Stephen Gengaro, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach in  New York ,
said he was expecting 11.7 percent in the quarter. In the
Eastern Hemisphere, the rig count rose 8 percent, and revenue
rose 23 percent from a year ago.  “International has been a little bit better than we
think,” Gengaro, who rates the shares a buy and owns none, said
today in a telephone interview. “North America’s probably
finding a bottom.”  Fracking capacity in North America was expected to rise 28
percent this year to about 18 million horsepower after growing
42 percent in 2011, according to Tulsa, Oklahoma-based  Spears &
Associates , a consulting firm. Fracking capacity is measured in
horsepower rather than number of active pumping trucks to
accommodate for size differences.  Halliburton said June 6 that second-quarter North American
operating profit margins would be 5 to 5.5 percentage points
lower than in the first quarter, compared with a previous
forecast of a 2 to 2.5 percentage point reduction, because of
higher material costs.  North America ’s operating profit margin
dropped 4.8 percentage points to 20.7 percent compared to the
first quarter.  Guar Costs  After guar costs rose 75 percent sequentially in second
quarter, they are expected to rise another 25% in the third
quarter, Chief Executive Officer Dave Lesar told analysts and
investors today on a conference call. Guar gum is an
agricultural commodity used to blend fracking materials.  “We made the wrong decision,” Lesar said. “The result is
we bought too much guar too early and we paid too much for it.
We should not have purchased the extra inventory.”  Increased competition has lowered prices for fracking
services, said Jeff Tillery, an analyst at Tudor Pickering Holt
& Co. in Houston. Service companies are also facing higher costs
as fracking supplies and transportation of the materials to the
well site are in high demand.  The average number of active oil and gas  rigs  in the U.S.
rose 7.9 percent in the quarter to 1,970, from 1,826 a year
earlier, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   Halliburton rose 2.4 percent to $31.51 at the close in New
York. The shares have fallen 8.7 percent this year.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield-services
provider, beat analysts’ expectations by 5 cents thanks to the
growth of international work. Baker Hughes, the world’s third-
largest services provider, reported earnings that beat analysts’
estimates by 23 cents because of lower costs in North American
fracking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  