-- Westfield Joins Hammerson in $1.6 Billion Croydon Project
-- B y   A n d r e w   B l a c k m a n
-- 2013-01-17T08:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/hammerson-s-asset-values-increase-on-gain-in-retail-occupancy.html
Hammerson Plc (HMSO)  and  Westfield Group (WDC) 
formed a venture to rebuild part of the English town of Croydon
in south  London  in a project valued at about 1 billion pounds
($1.6 billion), ending a tussle over the development.  Westfield, based in Sydney, bought half of the Centrale
shopping center from London-based Hammerson as part of the
agreement, according to a statement today. The two companies
will also purchase 25 percent of the Whitgift Centre after
Hammerson acquires the mall from Royal London Asset Management
Ltd. They had planned to develop the project separately,  Hammerson, Britain’s third-largest real estate company by
market value, was appointed in April by the leasehold owners to
manage and redevelop the Croydon center. Westfield had planned a
development on the same site after signing a deal in November
with the Whitgift Foundation, which owns the freehold.  Today’s agreement “ends the battle for control and
therefore reduces the risk of overpaying,” JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analyst Harm Meijer said in a note to investors today.  Hammerson and Westfield plan to redevelop and combine the
Centrale mall and the Whitgift Centre, Croydon’s biggest retail
outlets, and build retail, leisure and residential properties on
a 200,000 square-meter (2.15 million square-foot) site,
according to the statement. Construction is expected to start in
2015.  Westfield fell 0.6 percent to A$10.93 in Sydney trading
today, trimming their gain in the past 12 months to 25 percent.
The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 13 percent in the past
year. Hammerson was little changed at 483.3 pence at 8:30 a.m.
in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Blackman  in Berlin at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 