-- Manchester Utd. Agrees $40 Million Fee for Moura: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-23T07:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/manchester-utd-agrees-40-million-fee-for-moura-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Moura Fee  Manchester United  agreed a 26 million-pound ($40.4 million)
deal to sign Brazilian teenager Lucas Moura from  Sao Paulo  and
will now discuss personal terms with his agents, the  Daily
Mirror reported .  United’s negotiators have doubled their valuation of the
19-year-old in the talks with Sao Paulo, the Mirror said. Moura,
who is in  England  with  Brazil ’s Olympics squad, would need a
work permit to play in the U.K., though he should fall into the
‘special talent’ category, the newspaper added.  Modric Strike  Tottenham Hotspur will fine Luka Modric 15,000 pounds for
each day the Croatian midfielder stays away after he refused to
join the club’s pre-season tour of the U.S.,  the Sun reported .  Modric, who has already been docked 80,000 pounds for
refusing to train last week, is said to have fled to  Croatia  to
try to force a move to Real Madrid, the newspaper said.  “This will go against him,” the Sun cited Spurs manager
Andre Villas-Boas as saying. “He has worsened the situation and
now the chairman is very angry.”  Playmaker’s Price Tag  Spurs are sticking by their 40 million-pound valuation of
Modric and have told the playmaker that he will only be sold if
the asking price is met, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  A meeting between the player’s representatives and Real
Madrid is scheduled for today, the newspaper added.  Million-Pound Prospect  Chelsea signed 17-year-old central defender Emir Dautovic
for 1 million pounds from Slovenian champion Maribor, the
 Independent reported . Dautovic, who had a trial at  Manchester
City  last season, is likely to go into Chelsea’s academy, the
newspaper added.  Open to Offers  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  has given his clearest
indication that the club will consider offers for striker  Robin van Persie  and wants the situation resolved before the Premier
League season starts, the  Telegraph reported .  Although Manchester United, Manchester City and Juventus
have already bid for van Persie, the highest offer is 12 million
pounds, about 10 million pounds short of Arsenal’s minimum
valuation, the Telegraph added  Vlaar’s Vent  Feyenoord defender Ron Vlaar pulled out of a 3.2 million-
pound move to  Aston Villa  and accused the Premier League club of
messing him about, the  Daily Express reported .  “The chance that I will now sign for Aston Villa is almost
zero,” Netherlands international Vlaar was cited as saying by
the Express. “I don’t like to be messed about. You can write
down that this transfer is now off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  