-- Apple, Microsoft End Patent Fight With BlackBerry Foe NTP
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   J o n   E r l i c h m a n
-- 2012-07-23T20:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/apple-microsoft-end-patent-fight-with-blackberry-foe-ntp-1-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  were
among companies that reached a settlement of patent-infringement
claims by NTP Inc., the licenser that extracted a $612.5 million
settlement from  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM)  six years ago.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed in federal court filings
in Richmond, Virginia, seeking dismissal of suits filed by NTP
beginning in 2007. The agreements cover most of the wireless
phone industry, including phone service companies like  AT&T Inc. (Y) 
and  Verizon Wireless , handset manufacturers such as  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  and e-mail service providers like  Yahoo! Inc.. (YHOO)   The dispute was over wireless e-mail technology developed
by NTP founder Thomas Campana. NTP battled with RIM for more
than four years before reaching a settlement, and then sued
other companies in the phone industry. The cases were delayed as
the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office reviewed the patents.  “Each of the parties in this arrangement are in some way
making use of NTP’s, of Tom Campana’s, original wireless e-mail
invention, although they’re at different levels of the
industry,” NTP lawyer  Ron Epstein  said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “Some are providing wireless services,
others e-mail, others the handset, but they all are getting the
same license.”  Dismissal requests also were filed in cases against
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s Palm unit,  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  and  HTC
Corp. (2498)   Trial Victory  Campana was an electrical engineer who set up NTP with his
patent lawyer, Don Stout, to hold patents on inventions he
developed separate from work he did on contract. He died of
cancer in June 2004, the day after his trial victory in the case
against RIM was argued before an appeals court.  The patents cover a way e-mail is transmitted automatically
to electronic devices.  “There’s a lot of use of this term patent troll to
trivialize the discussion around what is the source of
innovation,” said Epstein, who also is chief executive officer
of patent brokerage Epicenter IP Group LLC in Redwood City,
California. “Ultimately, there was a recognition that Tom
Campana had in fact, back in the early 90s, developed a system
that did wireless e-mail.”  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple,  Brenda Raney , with Verizon Wireless, and Laura
Young, a Microsoft spokeswoman, said the companies had no
comment.  HTC, in an e-mailed statement, said it was “pleased to see
this issue resolved reasonably and without further litigation.”  Officials with the other companies didn’t immediately
return messages seeking comment.  The cases have been on hold pending NTP’s appeal of the
patent-office findings that rejected elements of Compana’s
patents. An appeals court last year  ordered  the agency to
reconsider findings that invalidated elements of seven NTP
patents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Jon Erlichman in  San Francisco  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  