-- Apple to Open Larger Store in Santa Monica, Landlord Says
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-07-23T19:05:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/apple-to-open-larger-store-in-santa-monica-landlord-says.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , the world’s largest
company by market value, plans to replace its store on  Santa
Monica ,  California ’s Third Street Promenade retail district with
a bigger location, according to landlord  Jordache Enterprises .  Nakash Holdings, the real estate investment unit of the New
York-based company that gained fame with its designer jeans in
the 1970s, today completed the purchase of the store’s land and
building, which is under construction, said Jonathan Bennett,
director of real estate for Jordache. It bought the property
from Los Angeles-based Blatteis & Schnur Inc. and Bethesda,
Maryland-based ASB Capital Management LLC.  “The deal was contingent on Apple being the tenant,”
Bennett said in a telephone interview today. “The Promenade is
just a fantastic location and we love Apple.”  The store will have about 17,500 square feet (1,625 square
meters) of space on three floors and is scheduled to open by the
end of the year, Bennett said. A former Borders Group Inc.
bookstore was torn down to make room for the new building. An
existing, 6,000-square-foot Apple location on Third Street
Promenade will close when the new outlet opens, Bennett said.  Amy Bessette, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment. Daniel Blatteis, co-chairman of
Blatteis & Schnur, and David Quigley,  Palo Alto , California-
based managing director and chief investment officer at ASB
Capital’s real estate investment division, didn’t immediately
return telephone calls seeking comment.  Closely held Jordache, which owns stakes in such properties
as  Manhattan ’s Fred F. French Building on Fifth Avenue at 45th
Street, has been buying “long-term, generational” properties
with established tenants, Bennett said. The company already
owned real estate on Third Street Promenade, he said.  Bennett wouldn’t disclose the price Jordache paid for the
Apple store property.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  