-- Syria Says No Chemical Weapons Use Against Insurgents
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-23T21:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/arab-states-urge-syria-s-assad-to-quit-in-return-for-safe-haven.html
The Syrian Foreign Ministry said the
nation’s chemical weapons are secure and won’t be used against
insurgents, as U.S. President  Barack Obama  warned Syrian
officials they “will be held accountable” if those weapons are
unleashed.  Chemical weapons “would never be used against civilians or
against the Syrian people during this crisis,” ministry
spokesman Jihad Makdissi said at a Damascus press conference
shown on state-run television.  “All the stocks of these weapons that the Syrian Arab
Republic possesses are monitored and guarded by the Syrian
Army,” he said, presenting part of his remarks in English.
“These weapons are meant to be used only and strictly in the
event of external aggression” against Syria, he said.  The comment left uncertain whether Makdissi was issuing a
warning against foreign support for opposition fighters, who the
regime headed by President Bashar al-Assad already characterize
as foreign-backed terrorists. Further clouding the issue, the
Foreign Ministry tried to roll back Makdissi’s comments with a
subsequent written statement saying he was deliberately
misinterpreted as confirming for the first time that  Syria  holds
chemical weapons.  “The goal of the statement and the press conference wasn’t
to declare but rather to respond to a methodical media campaign
targeting Syria to prepare world public opinion for the
possibility of military intervention under the false premise of
weapons of mass destruction (similar to what happened with  Iraq )
or the possibility of using such weapons against terrorist
groups or civilians, or transporting them to a third party,”
the ministry said in its written statement.  Obama’s Warning  Obama, addressing the Veterans of Foreign Wars in Reno,
 Nevada , later in the day said the U.S. and other nations are
monitoring how Syria handles its unconventional weapons.  “Given the regime’s stockpiles of chemical weapons, we
will continue to make it clear to Assad and those around him
that the world is watching, and that they will be held
accountable by the international community and the  United States 
should they make the tragic mistake of using those weapons,” he
said.  Salman Shaikh, the director of the  Brookings Institution ’s
Doha Center in Qatar, said Makdissi’s remarks were an
acknowledgment that Syria has unconventional weapons.  “It’s an admission that’s been made a necessity by them
trying to reassure the Americans and the Israelis,” Shaikh said
in an interview from Doha. “They may have calculated that it
would take a little bit of the heat off them.”  Israel Watching  The U.S. and  Israel  have led the charge among countries
expressing concern about what will happen to Syria’s long-
suspected arsenal of chemical weapons as the violence escalates.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said July 22 that
he is concerned that Hezbollah or other groups could gain
control of chemical weapons, rockets and missiles if Assad’s
government collapses, adding that he didn’t rule out Israeli
action in such a case.  Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said yesterday that
Israel would “respond in a very aggressive manner” to the
transfer of chemical weapons to Hezbollah, the Lebanese Shiite
group that fought a war with Israel in 2006.  U.S. intelligence officials said July 22 that Assad’s
forces have moved some of the country’s stocks of sarin and VX
nerve gas and other chemical weapons. They said it wasn’t clear
whether the Syrians are trying to secure the weapons or move
them into position to use against the opposition.  Putin’s View  Makdissi said his government is concerned that the rebels
will be supplied with such weapons “from the outside” and use
them against the government, or that “mines that contain
bacteriological materials would explode in one of the villages,
so that the Syrian forces get the blame afterwards.”  In the Black Sea resort of Sochi, Russian President
 Vladimir Putin  warned against the overthrow of Assad.  “If the country’s current leadership is removed from power
in an unconstitutional way, then the opposition and today’s
leaders will switch places,” Putin told reporters after talks
with Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  in Sochi. “Civil war
will break out and no one knows for how long.”  The conflict, which began in March of last year as a
largely peaceful protest movement, has left more than 19,000
people dead, according to the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for
 Human Rights . Local Coordination Committees in Syria said in an
e-mail that 82 people were killed across Syria yesterday,
including 44 in Damascus and its suburbs and 10 in Aleppo.  Daily Fighting  The Syrian government said yesterday that it inflicted
heavy losses on rebels in Damascus and Aleppo, destroying trucks
and confiscating large amounts of weapons, according to the
state-run Sana  news agency . It said the “dens of terrorists”
included foreign nationals from  Jordan ,  Egypt ,  Libya  and other
countries.  The turmoil has made it difficult for international
observers to get a clear picture of the extent of the bloodshed,
with the opposition’s numbers questioned as exaggerated and the
government accused of under-reporting the toll. About 300
unarmed United Nations monitors are leaving the country because
of the danger.  The European Union announced yesterday a fresh round of
sanctions on Syria, targeting 26 intelligence and military
figures and tightening an arms embargo.  Arab League foreign ministers who met in Doha, Qatar, on
July 22 urged Assad in a statement to step down in exchange for
a safe way out. They also called on the Syrian opposition and
the Free Syrian Army to form an interim government to ensure a
smooth transfer of power, according to Sheikh Sabah al-Khaled al-Sabah,  Kuwait ’s deputy prime minister. His remarks were
carried by the official Qatar News Agency.  Assad “can do more than anyone else to put an end to the
destruction and the killings by taking a courageous step,”
Qatari Prime Minister Hamad bin Jasim bin Jabr Al-Thani said,
according to the news agency.  Makdissi dismissed such a push as “blatant” interference
in Syrian affairs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  