-- Argent Leads Revival of Canadian High-Yield Trust IPOs
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-07-23T20:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/argent-leads-revival-of-canadian-high-yield-trust-ipos.html
Argent Energy Trust, seeking to buy
Texas energy assets, is leading the charge of companies planning
initial public offerings in a revival of what was once a C$200
billion ($197 billion) high-yield equity market in Canada.  Argent seeks to raise as much as C$213 million in an IPO
this month, one of at least six companies planning to use a new
corporate structure that mimics income trusts, the high-yield
securities that were curtailed by the federal government in
2006. Calgary-based Argent follows  Eagle Energy (EGL-U)  Trust and
 Parallel Energy Trust (PLT-U)  in creating a foreign asset income trust.  “They’ve captured the attention of the market,” said
Murray Lee, a tax services partner for PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP in Calgary. “There are others that are in the wings and
percolating, being worked on right now.”  The new securities are attracting investors by paying
dividends at about 11 percent a year when corporate bond yields
have slipped to 3 percent and 10-year government  debt yields 
reach record lows.  Like the former income trusts, foreign asset income trusts
distribute part of their  cash flow  to investors in monthly
payouts. These  investment trusts  differ from the earlier income
trusts in that they have all their assets outside the country.  “I certainly am interested, and we don’t shy away from it
just because it’s a bit different,” said Les Stelmach, who
helps manage C$900 million of high dividend securities including
Eagle Energy and Parallel Energy for Bissett Investment
Management in Calgary. “We do like the high income and I would
say there is some appeal to buying U.S. assets.”  Avoided Taxes  Income trusts were once the fastest-growing segment on the
Toronto Stock Exchange, ballooning into a C$200 billion market
by 2006 as firms were drawn to the tax breaks and investors were
attracted to the high-yield securities. Income trusts avoided
most corporate taxes by paying out most of their cash flow to
investors.  That ended when Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said on Oct.
31, 2006 that the government would start taxing income trusts
for the first time to level the playing field with other
corporations. The move halted some C$70 billion in trust
conversions including phone companies  BCE Inc. (BCE)  and  Telus Corp. (T)   The government left an exemption in its revised rules that
allowed a trust to keep its preferred tax treatment if its only
income came from assets outside Canada.  ‘Halloween Massacre’  “The rules are very clear: if you’re operating outside of
Canada the so-called specified investment flow-through  rules 
don’t apply,” Bob McCue, a partner with Bennett Jones LLP law
firm in Calgary, said in an interview. “Those are the rules
that knocked out the income trust sector, the Halloween massacre
of 2006.”  The foreign asset income trust structure was concocted in
Calgary more than two years ago, tapping that exemption to
revamp the model that once represented about 10 percent of
Canada’s stock market.  “From an investors’ standpoint, what they see is literally
the same as before: an income trust that’s publicly traded that
pays them a yield vehicle that owns whatever asset it happens to
own,” PwC’s Lee said. “The one material difference is this
line called the 49th parallel. Under the old model, pretty much
everything was in Canada.”  Eagle Energy was the first of these revamped trusts,
devised by  Richard Clark , a securities lawyer who’s now the
trust’s chief executive officer, along with McCue and Lee.  Structure Works  “It’s a structure that works, the guys have done a good
job developing it,” said Mark Herman, Scotia Capital’s managing
director in Calgary, who was also involved in Eagle Energy’s
creation. “It’s a sector that will grow, not only in oil and
gas.”  Eagle Energy raised C$170 million in its November 2010 IPO,
when it sold units for C$10 each, and followed up with a C$97
million secondary sale in May. Eagle Energy, which has an 11
percent yield, traded at C$9.75 a unit at 3:58 p.m. in Toronto.  “The business has had a reasonably ambitious amount of
success,” Clark, 50, said in an interview from Calgary. “We
did a relatively small IPO, which I think is frankly necessary
to get off the ground, and then we’ve done a separate follow-on
transaction. Our goal is to be a billion-dollar enterprise 36
months after our IPO.”  Parallel Energy followed Eagle Energy’s sale five months
later with its C$393 million IPO. The Calgary-based trust that
invests in  Texas  natural gas properties  trades  at C$5.91 a unit,
41 percent less than its April 2011 trading debut. The decline
has pushed Parallel’s dividend yield to 16 percent.  Yield Comparison  The 183-company S&P/TSX Dividend Composite Index, in
comparison, has a dividend yield of 3.3 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bissett’s Stelmach says he’s “cautious” about the trusts,
wary about any company that just focuses on pricing or yield to
woo investors.  “We want to make sure we’re getting a deal that’s
attractive to us, that it doesn’t try to take too much advantage
of the fact that investors are interested in income,” Stelmach,
37, said in an interview. “You can’t just slap a dividend on
something and bring it up to  Canada .”  Other foreign asset income trusts -- including three
outside the oil-and-gas industry -- are in the works.  “There are at least half a dozen right now that will be in
a position to file preliminary prospectuses,” McCue, 54, said.
“They’re in varying stages of development and are watching the
market, trying to decide how hard they want to push forward
right now when equity markets are skittish.”  Moribund IPOs  The sales would help revive a moribund IPO market in
Canada. Canadian companies have raised $1 billion in initial
stock sales this year, 46 percent less than a year ago and the
slowest start since 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Slumping markets kept Argent from doing its IPO earlier
this year, and forced another Calgary-based company, North
American Oil Trust, to withdraw plans for a C$375 million IPO in
December to buy oil properties in  North Dakota .  “It’s just due to market tone and confidence,”
Scotiabank’s Herman said. “When institutional investors are
willing to put money into new names and when retail investors
feel confident, we’ll get a bunch more of these. Frankly, I’m
surprised we’ve got only two.”  Argent had planned to raise as much as C$325 million in its
IPO to buy energy assets in Texas and  Oklahoma , but delayed the
sale in June as stock markets and  oil prices  slumped. Argent
revised its offering on July 13 after scrapping a plan to buy
energy leases in Texas and Oklahoma from EnergyQuest II LLC to
focus on acquiring oil-and-gas properties in Texas from Denali
Oil & Gas Partners LLC.  Sales Plans  Argent plans to sell 19.1 million to 21.3 million units for
C$10 each this month, according to July 16 sales documents. The
trust units will have an initial yield of 10 percent to 11
percent, paid monthly, the documents show. Argent CEO Brian Prokop declined to comment.  Bank of  Nova Scotia , Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce and
Royal Bank of Canada are leading Argent’s sale.  Scotiabank is “actively” working on a couple more foreign
asset income trust deals that may be ready before the end of the
year, Herman said. He expects the sector to increase to 15
companies within a couple of years.  “There’s tons of demand,” Herman said. “If we got up to
10 or 12 names in the next year or two, that would not be
unreasonable, but it’s all caveated by market conditions.”  Eagle Energy’s Clark says he welcomes more foreign asset
income trusts.  “I think we need to have a nice asset class so that we get
some following and we’ve got some peer group comparisons,” he
said. “I want to have some more people to compete against.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  