-- Argentina Seeks to Reverse U.S. Court on Defaulted Bonds
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-07-23T22:28:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/argentina-seeks-to-reverse-u-s-rulings-on-defaulted-bond-debt.html
Argentina  asked a federal appeals
court to reverse lower-court rulings that could help creditors
including Elliott Management Corp.’s NML Capital Fund collect on
$1.4 billion in defaulted bonds.  Argentina, which defaulted on $80 billion in foreign debt
in 2001, argued today that U.S. District Judge Thomas Griesa in
Manhattan was wrong in holding that a provision in the bonds
bars the republic from paying bondholders who agreed to debt
restructurings in 2005 and 2010 before it pays creditors who
refused to take the deals.  “They say this boilerplate clause is a nuclear weapon that
gives them the right to veto a sovereign debt restructuring,”
Jonathan Blackman, a lawyer representing Argentina, argued to a
three-judge panel of the federal appeals court in  Manhattan .  Argentina claims that upholding Griesa’s rulings would
undermine the debt agreements, trigger a new financial crisis in
the republic and make it impossible for countries including
Greece and  Spain  to restructure their debt in the future.  Griesa agreed with the interpretation of NML and the other
investors of the so-called pari passu clause in the bonds
providing that Argentina’s obligation to pay “shall at all
times rank at least equally with all its other present and
future unsecured and unsubordinated external indebtedness.”  Restructured Bonds  He ruled that Argentina’s policy of making payments on
restructured bonds issued in 2005 and 2010 exchanges, while
refusing to pay anything to the holdout creditors, violates the
provision.  Ted Olson, a lawyer for NML, argued that Griesa properly
found that Argentina’s refusal to pay the holdouts was, in
effect, a subordination of their rights to the bondholders who
participated in the restructurings, in violation of the pari
passu clause.  “We’re entitled to equal treatment,” Olson told the
judges. “We’re not getting equal treatment.”  If successful on the appeal, Olson said NML plans to seek
an order finding Argentina in contempt of court should it try to
pay holders of the restructured bonds before the holdouts.
Investors could pursue U.S. banks and others if they knowingly
aid the country in violating the court’s order, he said.  ‘Ample Resources’  “Argentina, a G-20 nation with more than $46 billion in
unrestricted reserves, has ample resources to pay those
‘nonperforming’ obligations just as it now pays its other
obligations,” the investors, led by NML Capital, argued in a
brief with the federal appeals court in  New York . “It simply
refuses to do so -- despite years of litigation and the entry of
multiple judgments against it.”  Argentina claims the pari passu clause doesn’t prevent it
from paying the 92 percent of bondholders that agreed to
exchange their defaulted debt for new bonds.  “Ninety-two percent of the debt-holders recognized that
the sensible thing to do was to take a haircut,” Blackman told
the judges.  The U.S. government, in a separate brief, supported
Argentina’s interpretation of the pari passu clause. The U.S.
also argued that the Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act, which
limits legal actions against foreign governments, bars Griesa
from blocking Argentina from paying the holders of the
restructured debt before the holdout creditors.  Undermined Effort  The U.S. said Griesa’s interpretation of the pari passu
clause “could enable a single creditor to thwart the
implementation of an internationally supported restructuring
plan, and thereby undermine the decades of effort the  United
States  has expended to encourage a system of cooperative
resolution of sovereign debt crises.”  The U.S. said it has “concerns regarding Argentina’s
continued failure to abide by its obligations.” Still, the
orders issued by Griesa are “impermissibly broad” and harmful
to U.S. foreign relations, the U.S. said in the brief.  The case is NML Capital Ltd. v. Republic of Argentina, 12-
00105,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in U.S. Circuit Court in Manhattan at
   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net :
Drew Benson in U.S. Circuit Court in Manhattan at
   abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  