-- Mariah Carey Joins Fox’s ‘American Idol’
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-07-23T20:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/mariah-carey-joins-fox-s-american-idol-.html
Fox’s “ American Idol ,” one of the
most-watched U.S. television shows, added pop singer  Mariah Carey  as a judge for the series’ 12th season, following the
departures of Steven Tyler and Jennifer Lopez this month.  The five-time Grammy Award-winning singer would join Randy Jackson in the new season, which begins in January, if his
contract is renewed. “Idol” may have a rotating cast of judges
in future seasons,  Kevin Reilly , Fox’s entertainment president,
said today at a TV critics conference in Beverly Hills,
California.  Carey will be the eighth judge in the history of “Idol,”
which features amateur singers aiming to become pop stars. While
the competition has led in viewership over the past nine
seasons, Fox faces a challenge from other talent shows, such as
 NBC Universal ’s “The Voice,” which threaten to topple it from
its perch.  “Ratings were down last season,” Reilly said at the
event. “We’re not the only game in town anymore. We felt we
needed to make some changes to keep things fresh.”  Audiences want to see new faces in the judges’ seats, he
said. The hiring of Carey will give “Idol” a singer “who many
contestants try to emulate,” Reilly said. Carey has recorded
more No. 1 songs than any solo artist in history, according to
 News Corp (NWSA) .-owned Fox. The other judges will be named in the
coming weeks, Reilly said.  “The Voice” also features recording artists as judges,
including  Christina Aguilera , Cee Lo Green and Blake Shelton.  News Corp. shares fell 0.8 percent to $21.82 at the close
in New York. The Class A stock has gained 22 percent this year,
ranking fifth in the 16-stock S&P 500 Media Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  