-- Market Shifts Helping Company Bonds, BlackRock’s Rosenberg Says
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d ,   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   S c a r l e t   F u
-- 2012-07-23T23:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/market-shifts-helping-company-bonds-blackrock-s-rosenberg-says.html
Jeffrey Rosenberg , chief investment
strategist for fixed-income at New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ,
the world’s biggest money manager which oversees about $3.6
trillion in assets, comments on investing in a low interest rate
environment.  Rosenberg spoke in an interview today with  Stephanie Ruhle 
and Scarlet Fu on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  On investing in nongovernment bonds:  “In credit markets, because the private market is
deleveraging, there’s less of it available. So it’s difficult to
find, but that’s one of the supports for the market going
forward that went behind our view that credit over  interest
rates  would be a good performer.”  “It’s difficult for many individual investors to access a
lot of the recommendations that I talked about, corporate bonds,
commercial real estate, a lot of that is accessed through pooled
vehicles, like mutual funds for example. So those are ways in
which individual investors can get access to the issuance, to
the credit risk that we’re talking about.”  On distortion of debt markets:  “Distortion for the corporate  bond market  is something
good in the sense that the intervention that we have going on in
the global markets is massive liquidity injections by global
central banks. Most of that is directed toward consumers, toward
mortgage lending.”  “Indirectly, that’s distorting in your words. In my words,
benefiting the corporate market because these corporations have
tremendous access to refinancing. That’s keeping their borrowing
rates low. It’s giving them access to refinancing at lower
rates.”  On low interest rates:  “The unintended side effect is that while we’re trying to
boost the consumer and boost consumption, what we’re doing is
we’re boosting corporations by reducing their interest expense,
expanding their margins. You haven’t had the confidence to have
that translate into jobs and capex and major economic stimulus.
But what it has had as an unintended consequence, it has
collapsed the default rate, because you don’t default when you
have access to roll over your loans.”  On contrasts with three years ago:  “We’re in a very different environment relative to then
because in 2009 you were in a distressed environment so you were
buying bonds at very low prices. Today, the prices have adjusted
so you’re starting at a higher point and so you have to be a
little bit more cautious about where you’re putting your money
with regards to the price that you’re starting at.”  On his preference for financial institutions’ bonds:  “Post-crisis, we’re talking about a structural change to
financial institutions. What we’re doing is we’re taking value
away from the equity side of the balance sheet and we’re giving
it to the credit side. Why? Because we need to de-risk and de-
lever, reduce the leverage and the risk going on in financial
institutions, that’s the post-crisis world, and that benefits
bondholders over the equity holders. And that’s behind most of
that long-term view on financials.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Scarlet Fu in New York at 
 scarfu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  