-- As Assad Teeters, Middle East Vertigo Deepens
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-07-23T23:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/as-assad-teeters-middle-east-vertigo-deepens.html
A telling conversation last week in
Ramallah, the rump capital of the non-state of  Palestine : A
senior official of Fatah, the mainstream, secular-leaning
movement that makes up the core of the decaying  Palestinian
Authority , explained why he isn’t entirely unsympathetic to
Israeli politicians who resist new peace initiatives.  A Palestinian negotiator willing to put himself in the
shoes of his adversaries is only slightly more unusual than an
Israeli political figure sensitive to the strategic conundrums
of the Palestinians. Then the Fatah official added this self-
interested thought: The upheavals shaking the greater Middle
East should cause everyone, including the Palestinians, to pause
before they attempt to negotiate their future. The future, he
told me, is showing itself to be immune to rational
intervention.  This official said that each morning, when he scans the
news -- of one Arab dictator after another facing swelling
popular unrest, and one previously unthinkable development after
another coming to pass in the  Middle East  -- he’s gripped by
feelings of uncertainty, horror and vertigo.  Uncertainty because clear patterns have yet to make
themselves visible in the Arab Spring. Will the regime of Syrian
dictator Bashar al-Assad fall as quickly as is hoped by
everyone, excluding the leaders of Iran and  Russia ? Will its
fall be followed by the sort of gruesome sect-on-sect
bloodletting the world saw -- and is still seeing -- in  Iraq ?
Does Assad’s imminent downfall destroy the bridge between the
Iranian regime and its proxy force Hezbollah, which, if American
and Israeli officials are correct, is very much interested in
escalating the radical Shiite conflict with  Israel , as evidenced
by the ghastly terrorist bombing of Israeli tourists last week
in  Bulgaria ?  Horror and Vertigo  He told me he reacts with horror to the apparently
limitless capacity of Arab dictators to murder their own people,
and at the manner in which the victims of these dictators
sometimes exact their revenge. He mentioned the very real fear
that the Assad regime would use its arsenal of chemical weapons
against its own people, or against Israel, as a means of
provoking a wider war.  And vertigo sets in early each day because so much of what
is happening now in the Middle East is thoroughly improbable,
and volatile.  Consider a few recent examples:  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , on her visit to
 Egypt  last week, came under sustained rhetorical attack -- and
her motorcade came under sustained tomato attack -- from Egypt’s
besieged secular liberals, infuriated that  Barack Obama ’s
administration would show any respect for the newly elected
president of Egypt, the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi. The
anger of Egypt’s liberals -- already incredulous as they watch
the revolution they sparked bypass them so comprehensively --
should cause the Obama administration to ask itself why its
natural allies across the region don’t trust its intentions, or
its spine.  A second vertigo-inducing moment: We’ve become habituated
to the idea that the so-called Arab Spring is unleashing a tidal
wave of Islamism over the Middle East. This is true enough in
Egypt and Tunisia, and it may be true one day in  Syria , but
recent events in  Libya  provide a contradictory data point: In
elections this month, the Libyan people soundly rejected the
more radical Islamist parties in favor of the moderate, pro-
business National Forces Alliance of Mahmoud Jibril. This
development was as welcome as it was unexpected.  No-Man’s Land  Still, the news from Libya isn’t entirely joyful. Tribal
violence plagues the country, and the uprising against the late
dictator  Muammar Qaddafi  had the unfortunate side effect of
spreading Libya’s weapons across North Africa. Now  Mali , partly
as a consequence, is under siege from impressively armed Touareg
separatists and an al-Qaeda-linked Islamist group, which is
hoping to turn Timbuktu into a Saharan version of pre-invasion
 Afghanistan  (or a post-revolution Sinai, which has become yet
another zone of chaos in a region of proliferating no-man’s-
lands).  A third cause for vertigo: Iraqis who fled their homeland
to Syria during the bleakest days of the civil war are now
fleeing back to Iraq, and Iraqis along the borders are
scandalized by atrocities on the Syrian side. Imagine Iraqis
shocked by the scale and cruelty of Syrian violence. As if to
remind those returning that they shouldn’t be so naive, Sunni
extremists across Iraq have just reasserted themselves by
killing as many as 100 people in a series of attacks.  These attacks serve as a reminder that for all the vertigo,
certain constancies remain in the Middle East, the most critical
one being the old and deadly competition between Sunni and
Shiite Islam. Mursi’s pan-Islamist tendencies haven’t trumped
his suspicion of Shiites, and he appears to be aligning Egypt
with Saudi Arabia in its cosmic struggle against Shiite  Iran , a
struggle now being waged on the streets of Damascus and Aleppo,
between the minority Alawite regime (the Alawites being a
schismatic Shiite group) and the Sunni majority.  Do not be mistaken: When the Syrian government falls (and
it will fall), Iran -- which is the octopus of the Middle East,
its tentacles reaching into every zone of conflict, from Iraq
and Afghanistan to Bahrain and Lebanon -- will be wounded. Syria
is its only meaningful Arab ally. Already, one of Iran’s
proxies, Hamas, has chosen  to side  with the Syrian rebels.  Assad’s coming downfall should be welcomed. He is a
monster. But the short-term consequences of his overthrow will
be profound: A full-blown sectarian civil war is possible, with
spillover into Iraq and Lebanon and perhaps Israel.  Cornered Iran  The removal of Iran’s lone friend in the Middle East will
be a positive development, except for this: A cornered Iran may
be even more dangerous than a self-confident Iran. The regime is
escalating its struggle against Israel. It has already attempted
several attacks on Israeli targets this year (succeeding, in a
manner of speaking, only in Bulgaria), and its nuclear program
is advancing apace, largely immune so far from Western pressure
and sanctions. A nuclear weapon, in Iran’s view, is an insurance
policy against what it sees as a hostile alliance of Sunni
Arabs, the Jewish state and the U.S. At times in the past few
months, confrontation between Iran and Israel -- and Iran and
the West -- has seemed almost inevitable.  It is for this reason that the U.S. allies in the Middle
East -- Israel, Jordan, the United Arab Emirates and the rest of
the Gulf states -- are hunkering down now. They understand that
their region hasn’t seen the last explosion, and they understand
that vertigo is the natural and understandable response to the
new Middle East reality.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for the Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own. This is the first in a two-part series.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  replace Libor  and on
 Europe’s wake-up call ; William Pesek on the  price of economic
growth  in  South Korea ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on Obama’s  welfare
mistake ; A. Gary Shilling on higher education’s  broken financing
model ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  sham economics ;
Bill Mallon on  obscure sports  in past Olympics; Ilian Scarlatov
on why  Greece should act like Bulgaria .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 