-- Masco Price-Fixing Trial Canceled Amid ‘Serious’ Talks
-- B y   D a v i d   B e a s l e y
-- 2012-07-23T21:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/masco-price-fixing-trial-canceled-amid-serious-talks.html
Masco Corp. (MAS) ’s trial on claims by
independent contractors that it colluded with insulation makers
to fix prices was canceled by a federal judge after a lawyer
said the parties were in talks with a mediator.  U.S. District Judge Julie Carnes in Atlanta today called
off the trial, according to a docket entry. Opening arguments
were set to begin this week in the case, which was brought in
2004 by independent contractors who accused Masco and four
insulation makers of conspiring to force them to pay more than
Masco, one of the largest U.S. installers of home insulation.  In a trial that was expected to last six weeks, 369
independent contractors were seeking $150 million in damages
against Masco, the sole remaining defendant after the insulation
makers settled for undisclosed terms. In a July 20 telephone
conference with the judge, a lawyer for Masco said the parties
were talking with a mediator.  “We have been through the mediator since Wednesday in
continued discussions, and I think it’s fair to say it’s serious
discussions,” William R. Sherman, the Masco attorney, told the
judge, according to a transcript. “I really hope that, you
know, we’re going to be able to continue those discussions and
maybe conclude them over the next couple of days.”  Sherman didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
the cancellation or the talks. Steven Rosenwasser, an attorney
for the contractors, declined to comment. Maria C. Duey, a Masco
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a phone call seeking
comment.  Manufacturer Settlements  Details of the settlements with the manufacturers,
including CertainTeed Corp. and Johns Manville Inc., have been
sealed by the court.  Masco, based in Taylor,  Michigan , has previously called the
contractors’ allegations baseless. Its motion to dismiss the
lawsuit remains sealed by the court.  In a 2009 ruling allowing the case to go to trial, Carnes
said there was evidence the insulation makers established a
price “spread” that gave Masco a 10 percent to 12 percent
discount over independent contractors.  “There are numerous documents in the record reflecting the
manufacturers’ apparent need to clear pricing decisions with
Masco to ensure that those decisions did not violate a formerly
agreed-upon spread,” the judge wrote.  The case is Columbus Drywall & Insulation Inc. v. Masco
Corp., 04-cv-03066, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
 Georgia  (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Beasley  in Atlanta at 
 dbeasley4@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  