-- Asia Hedge Funds Put Returns Ahead of Cash as Demand Scarce
-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   B e i   H u
-- 2012-07-24T06:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/asia-hedge-funds-put-returns-ahead-of-cash-as-investors-hold-off.html
Ueli Wick, a former Credit Suisse
Group AG banker who in June began running his own  Singapore 
hedge fund, says he isn’t bothering to court investors right
away. Instead, he wants to focus on performance.  “It’s not that easy to go out with a good story and just
raise money like that,” said Wick, 41, who founded Baruna Asset
Management Pte with $15 million of his own money and some from
family and friends. “People just want to see more proof and
tangible numbers because they’ve just been too disappointed with
 hedge funds  and are extremely skeptical. To get big money, I
need to deliver first.”  Baruna Asset Management is among Asian startups opting out
of the struggle to raise capital as investors gravitate toward
established funds in a region where managers are underperforming
global peers. Asian startups gathered $1.39 billion in the first
five months of 2012, 51 percent less than the same period in
2011 and a 69 percent decline from five years ago, according to
 Eurekahedge Pte .  The returns-first strategy, by lowering costs and
sharpening focus on performance, may help the latest batch of
Asian managers avoid the fate of predecessors. Of the 317 Asia-
focused hedge-fund startups since the beginning of 2009, about
74 percent have failed to boost assets “significantly” and 56
have been liquidated, according to Eurekahedge, a Singapore-
based research firm.  ‘Very Challenging’  “It remains a very challenging fundraising environment for
young and small managers,” said Max Gottschalk, co-founder of
 Gottex Fund Management Holdings Ltd. (GFMN) , which is based in Hong
Kong, which allocates $7.6 billion to hedge funds. “By not
taking in outside investors, the manager can remain focused on
managing the fund and develop a track record without some of the
infrastructure needed to attract investors and without the fund
raising and client service distraction.”  The fundraising drought may prompt managers to take more
risks to post returns that will help lure investors, said  Paul
Smith , chief executive officer of Hong Kong-based asset manager
and hedge-fund distributor Triple A Partners Ltd.  “The only way out of this impasse for a smaller manager is
to swing for the fences and to try to post two years of back-to-
back spectacular  investment performance ,” said Smith. “This
will get them noticed quicker. So in a perverse way, I expect
this environment to heighten risk taking.”  While the number of startups in the first five months of
this year increased compared with the same period in 2011, their
average size declined. Fifty-nine funds opened in  Asia  this year
through May, averaging $23.5 million at the start, compared with
45 new funds averaging $63.1 million in 2011, according to
Eurekahedge.  ‘Investment Opportunities’  In the U.S., 191 startups raised an average $42 million in
the first five months of 2012, while new hedge funds in  Europe 
totaled 105 with an average $36 million, Eurekahedge data
showed.  “We do think that this is a great time to launch a hedge
fund, given the current investment opportunities,” said Wick.
“Even though you can raise much less than what you could in a
good market.”  Wick, former director of ultra-high-net-worth-investment
consulting group at Credit Suisse in Singapore, began running
his Singapore dollar-based Baruna Global Macro Fund in June, he
said. The fund, which will have capacity of S$500 million ($397
million), returned 0.3 percent in the first month of trading,
Wick said.  ‘Uphill Battle’  True Partner Holding Ltd. , founded by four former Hong
Kong-based employees of Saen Options BV, decided to halt
roadshows for about a year, said Chief Executive Officer Ralph
van Put. Four months after its inception in July 2011, True
Partner principals went on a trip to  Switzerland  in November to
visit family offices and smaller banks and realized raising
money for a small global volatility arbitrage fund was an
“uphill battle,” he said.  Before the four set up the Hong Kong-based hedge fund, they
had generated a 70 percent return over two years trading their
own capital after leaving Saen, an Amsterdam-based market-maker,
in 2009, said van Put.  “We were always doing proprietary trading and never had
any clients,” said van Put. “So you can imagine for us raising
capital is somewhat difficult, not being in the asset-management
business for a long time.”  True Partner began trading with $22 million from its
partners and seed capital from Samena Asia Managers, which backs
young hedge funds. True Partner’s fund returned 16.5 percent
from inception through June, said van Put. It has increased
assets to $34 million with investments from wealthy individuals
and plans to resume marketing trips in September, he said.  Athos Capital  Athos Capital Ltd., a Hong Kong-based manager of an Asia-
Pacific event-driven fund that started trading in April, plans
to focus mainly on building a track record of positive returns
during its first year instead of “doing a broad marketing
push,” said a person familiar with the matter.  Athos is 35 percent-owned by Ascalon Capital Managers Ltd.,
an Australian hedge fund incubator backed by  Westpac Banking
Corp. (WBC)  It has returned 2 percent since inception, the person
said, asking not to be identified because the information is
private. Matthew Moskey, Athos’s chief investment officer,
declined to comment.  Asset ‘War’  Less than 6 percent of investors anticipate allocating to
hedge funds with assets of less than $100 million this year,
according to Deutsche Bank AG’s annual alternative-investment
survey released in February. Twenty-nine percent of all
investors demand hedge funds have minimum track records of six
months to three years before they would consider an investment,
according to the survey, which polled 376 investors with $350
billion of hedge-fund assets.  “In the current war for assets it is important to
differentiate -- if you can say you have a great team, story,
infrastructure plus a say one year audited track record it will
make it easier,” said Mark Wightman, global head of
alternatives strategy in Singapore at SunGard, a provider of
trading systems for financial firms. “Most of these new guys
are coming from prop desks, so some investors are nervous as to
whether they can succeed without all the infrastructure they had
around them.”  Samena Asia Managers, a Hong Kong-based unit of Samena
Capital Management Ltd., is trying to discourage the managers it
provides startup capital to from taking expensive international
marketing trips during their first year, said managing director
Julius Wang.  “If you are just starting up, people are skeptical,” Wang
said. “Why would they give you money unless you’ve actually
demonstrated you have performance?”  Salaries, Expenses  Salaries for fund marketers start at $100,000 per year plus
about $50,000 for travel and expenses, and would be “a lot
more” for someone competent, said  Peter Douglas , principal of
Singapore-based GFIA Pte, which advises investors seeking to
allocate money to hedge funds.  Demand for Asian startups before the global financial
crisis in 2008 was stronger, helping them raise money more
quickly, said Samena’s Wang. Between 2006 and 2007, new hedge
funds in the region were often seen going on two- to three-week
marketing trips to the U.S. and Europe before trading even
began, he said.  “Difficulty in fundraising has certainly been a global
issue, especially over the last twelve months,” said Farhan Mumtaz, a hedge fund analyst at Eurekahedge in Singapore.
“However, Asian and European hedge funds suffer more from this
than North American funds. The last time we saw some healthy
allocation activity was in early 2011, and at that time most of
the capital flowed to North American funds.”  ‘Make Sense’  In 2007, 89 funds started in the first five months of the
year in Asia, raising an average $50.9 million, more than double
the amount for 2012, according to Eurekahedge.  “The current environment is not going to ease any time
soon,” said Triple A’s Smith. “If you estimated that it would
take three years to build a fund pre-2007, now it will take you
five years.”  For Shuhei Komatsu, a former equity-derivatives trader at
Merrill Lynch & Co. in  Tokyo , joining a proprietary-trading
house to build his track record before setting up his own fund
made more sense.  Komatsu, 29, began working for Singapore-based Phi
Management Pte after leaving MAM Pte, a Japan-focused hedge fund
also based in Singapore in March. Komatsu currently manages
about $20 million investing in derivative markets in  Japan ,
including credit default swaps and equity derivatives, he said.
The fund has returned about 15 percent since inception in March
through the end of June, Komatsu said.  The Sidelines  “Looking at how so many people have failed to just go out
there on their own and struggling to raise money, joining a
prop-trading firm and building my track record made more
sense,” Komatsu said. “This would allow me to focus on trading
and raise decent-sized money once I do decide to go solo.”  Ryo Ishiyama, a former Deutsche Securities Inc. banker,
says he is starting a hedge fund investing in global commodities
futures in Tokyo, and is in no rush to raise funds. Japanese
hedge funds have faced increased scrutiny following the fallout
of AIJ Investment Advisors Co., which allegedly lost more than
$1 billion with hedge-fund strategies.  “As we’ve seen in AIJ’s case, you don’t run a fund for the
sake of raising more money -- you run a fund to make returns,”
said Ishiyama. “For now, I want to focus on managing private
money, which is mostly my own money, to build my track record.”  Tough Times  Ishiyama said he will not start raising money for the first
year or two.  “It really is tough out there given the global economy;
people are sitting on the sidelines,” said Phil Tye, co-founder
and managing director of DragonBack Capital Ltd., which provides
support such as accounting, independent risk management and
compliance services to hedge funds on its platform. “Marketing
takes time in this environment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Singapore at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  