-- Australian Producer Prices Rose 0.5% Last Quarter on Imports
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-23T02:29:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/australian-producer-prices-rose-0-5-last-quarter-on-imports-1-.html
Australian wholesale price inflation
accelerated last quarter for the first time in more than a year,
driven by higher import prices and agriculture and petroleum
refining costs.  The producer price index advanced 0.5 percent in the April-
to-June period from the prior quarter, when it dropped 0.3
percent, the Bureau of Statistics said in Sydney today. The
median estimate of 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for a 0.3 percent increase. The index rose 1.1 percent in the
second quarter from a year earlier, higher than the median
forecast of 1 percent.  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  lowered
the benchmark  interest rate  by a total of 75 basis points in May
and June to help insulate the economy from Europe’s woes, before
pausing this month citing stronger domestic growth momentum. The
Australian dollar slipped in the second quarter and inflation
probably quickened in the period, a survey of economists showed
before a July 25 government report.  “The idea for the consumer price inflation numbers is that
you’re going to get an acceleration,” said Ben Jarman, a
Sydney-based economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. who predicts a
0.6 percent increase, in line with the median estimate. “It’s
going to leave the RBA in a bit of a difficult position,
particularly with the global backdrop looking as it does -- it’s
likely  Europe  is flaring up again.”  The Australian dollar stayed lower after the data, trading
at $1.0316 as of 12:21 p.m. in Sydney from $1.0322 before the
data.  Agriculture, Petroleum  The report showed the cost of some agricultural goods
gained 10.9 percent while petroleum refining increased 4.3
percent. Commercial fishing prices sank 12.2 percent and
accommodation declined 5.6 percent, it showed.  Prices of domestically produced products grew 0.3 percent,
while imports advanced 1.9 percent, the report showed.  Traders are pricing in an 88 percent chance the RBA will
lower its overnight cash-rate target by a quarter percentage
point to 3.25 percent on Aug. 7, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg based on swaps trading.  Economists predict government figures scheduled to be
released in two days will show a measure of core consumer prices
rose 0.6 percent in the second quarter, lowering the annual rate
to 1.9 percent, below the central bank’s 2 percent to 3 percent
target range.  The  consumer price index  increased 0.6 percent in the three
months through June for annual inflation of 1.3 percent,
according to the Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Economists caution the  producer price index  doesn’t have
much correlation with the CPI because the two have different
weighting patterns.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  