-- Mayor Swoons Over Rolling Stone, Bankers Before Olympics
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-07-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/mayor-swoons-over-rolling-stone-bankers-before-olympics-books.html
London ’s Olympics starting this week
will crown a long history that has run from rebel-rousing Queen
Boudica to the  Rolling Stones , according to a new book by  Boris Johnson , the city’s mayor.  The U.K. capital is a lot more than Big Ben and  Buckingham
Palace , gray skies, red buses and black cabs, says the timely
primer “ Johnson’s Life of London .”  The book’s title recalls the phrase of Samuel Johnson (no
relation) that someone tired of London is tired of life itself.  The New York-born Conservative mayor, who was elected for a
second four-year term in May, presents a relay race of
historical figures that shaped London. He’s as funny as Bill
Bryson and much less politically correct.  Londinium was created by “a bunch of pushy Italian
immigrants,” Johnson says, and the Anglo-Saxons “were called
names like Cathwulf and Ceawlin and, let’s face it, folks (or
Volks), they were essentially German”.  He singles out Chaucer, Florence Nightingale -- and  Keith Richards . Yes, you read that right: the mayor was awestruck when
meeting the Rolling Stone whose fans surrounded them, begging
the guitarist “to sign their napkins, their 20-pound notes,
their left breasts etc.”  Tax Avoidance  Richards is praised for “adroit planning” in avoiding
paying much U.K. taxes and gets 18 pages, more than influential
figures like St. Paul’s architect Christopher Wren.  The book heaps praise on  Winston Churchill , who started as
an upper-class loudmouth who dared to attack the policies of
prime ministers. In time, Churchill turned from a joke into the
savior of  England , Johnson says. Could he possibly be thinking
about a latter-day equivalent?  Boudica was “the first banker-basher to hit the Square
Mile,” so it’s hardly surprising that Londoners are going
through “a period of bitterness” toward bankers, he writes.
“History is littered with examples of resentment at the success
of rich merchants, and especially foreigners.”  He’s full of admiration for financiers such as Lionel
Rothschild and Dick Whittington, a 15th-century lord mayor who
was commanded to arrange a royal celebration.  “The mayor laid on a fantastic binge,” Johnson notes.
“The wenches were as comely and fragrant as any in late
medieval London.” He glumly contrasts Whittington’s feast with
a “grim occasion” when “we all had to go and suck up to
President Putin in the hope that he would let BP have some oil
contracts.”  London Underground  Some of the best sections are about London inventions,
including  the Tube  and the King James Bible. Johnson mentions
his debt to Stephen Inwood’s definitive “A History of London,”
which runs to almost four times the length of Johnson’s book
without the mayor’s cavalier judgments and politicking.  Johnson ends by quoting  William Shakespeare , “What is the
city but the people?”  The same quote starts Craig Taylor’s lively “ Londoners ,”
which features dozens of interviews with residents including a
punk, a prostitute and a property developer. There is even a
witness to last year’s riots, which Johnson shies away from
mentioning.  Taylor ends by interviewing a pilot taking off from
Heathrow. He speaks of breaking through that rainy cloud and
sadly realizing “you’re leaving the energy behind.”  “Johnson’s Life of London: The People Who Made the City
That Made the World” is published by Riverhead in the U.S. and
Harper Press in the U.K. (320 pages, $27.95, 20 pounds). To buy
this book in  North America , click  here .  “Londoners: The Days and Nights of London Now -- As Told
by Those Who Love It, Hate It, Live It, Left It, and Long for
It” is published by Ecco in the U.S. and Granta in the U.K.
(413 pages, $29.99, 9.99 pounds). To buy this book in North
America, click  here .  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include: Katya Kazakina on  art  and Mike Di
Paola on  ecology .  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 