-- Yingli Tumbles as ADRs Slump to Nine-Month Low: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-07-23T20:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/baidu-tumbles-as-adrs-slump-to-nine-month-low-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks traded in  New York 
fell to the lowest level in nine months, led by solar and
Internet companies, on concern that a slowdown in the world’s
second-largest economy will erode earnings.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. sank 2.1 percent to 84.32 in New
York, the lowest close since Oct. 4.  Yingli Green Energy Holding
Co., (YGE)  the world’s fourth-biggest maker of solar cells, and  LDK
Solar Co. (LDK)  lost at least 6 percent.  Elong Inc. (LONG) , an online travel
company, tumbled while  Baidu Inc., (BIDU)   China ’s largest online search
engine, surged in after-hours trading as its second-quarter
earnings beat analysts estimates.  China’s economic growth may ease to 7.4 percent this
quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in more than three
years, Song Guoqing, an academic member of the central bank’s
monetary policy committee, said July 21 in Beijing.  Net income 
of 52 companies on the Bloomberg China-US gauge that reported
from mid-February to mid-May missed analysts’ estimates by 19
percent on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Stocks fell across the world on concern the European crisis is
deepening.  “With all the headwinds, it’s hard for the market to break
out,” said Erik Lam, director of Asian equity sales at Auerbach
Grayson & Co. in New York, by phone. “The Street expects
Chinese Internet companies’ earnings to deliver somewhat slower
profit growth. If you are a bear, China is too dangerous
altogether.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., lost 2 percent to $32.60. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 0.9 percent to 1,350.52.  Baidu Earnings  Baidu surged 5.5 percent to $113 at 4:33 p.m., from
yesterday’s close of $107.1. The company reported adjusted
earnings of $1.26 per share, compared with the mean estimate of
$1.13 by 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Shares fell 2.8
percent yesterday prior to the earnings announcement.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer,
fell 4.3 percent to $193.96 in New York. The ADRs traded 2.6
percent lower than its equivalent shares listed in  Hong Kong ,
the biggest  discount  in a month, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Cnooc agreed to pay $15.1 billion in cash to acquire
 Canada ’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in the biggest overseas takeover by a
Chinese company. Beijing-based Cnooc will pay for the
acquisition using existing cash funds and external financing.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares dropped 1.3
percent to close at the lowest level since March 2009.  Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation (SMI) , the
world’s third-largest contract manufacturer of chips, rose 12
percent to $1.67. It was the biggest one-day gain since
November.  Tal Education, Ctrip  Sales for the three months ended June 30 may increase as
much as 26 percent, the Shanghai-based chipmaker said, revising
its forecast from the maximum 21 percent it predicted at the end
of March.  TAL Education Group (XRS) , which provides after-school tutoring
services, and  Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP) , the largest online
travel agency in China, are scheduled to release their quarterly
earnings today.  Solar companies were among the biggest decliners in the
Bloomberg China index today. Yingli tumbled 8.1 percent to
$2.28, while LDK sank 6.4 percent to $1.62.  LDK and Yingli have dropped at least 40 percent this year
as a global supply glut and European subsidies cuts reduced
prices. Chinese module prices have tumbled to a record low of 77
cents a watt as of July 2, a 47 percent decline from a year
earlier, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  Beijing-based Elong fell 6 percent to $11.25, while
 Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  lost 4.3 percent to $33.91.  Industrial Profits  China’s four-month decline in producer prices will hurt
profits, restrict investment and slow economic growth, the
central bank’s Song told a forum in Beijing during the weekend.
Industrial profits dropped 5.3 percent in May from a year
earlier, following a 2.2 percent decline in April and 4.5
percent gain in March, the National Bureau of Statistics said on
June 29.  The Bloomberg China index has lost 6.4 percent this year,
compared with a gain of 7.4 percent in the S&P 500 index. The
China index is valued at 16.8 times estimated profit, near the
lowest level since March 2009, according to  data compiled by
Bloomberg.   Valuations of Chinese companies are attractive as record
low bond yields in the U.S., U.K. and  Germany  may prompt
investors to search for alternatives to boost returns, according
to Jeff Papp, a senior analyst at Oberweis Asset Management
Inc., which manages $700 million.  Yields  The yield on the  10-year U.S. Treasury note  reached an all-
time low of 1.40 percent, while two-year German yields slumped
to as low as minus 0.08 percent.  “With valuations so low and China taking matters into
their own hands, I believe money can flow from the developed
world to China,” said Papp in an e-mail. “There is very little
left in bonds. Therefore, the risk-reward for a place like
China, is appealing.”  The central bank cut its benchmark  interest rate  for a
second time in a month on July 5 and has reduced banks’ reserve
requirement ratio three times starting in November to shore up
the economy. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said during a two-day meeting
with economists and company executives ended July 10 that
promoting investment growth is key to stabilizing the economic
expansion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  