-- Banana King Stages Coup, Gulps United Fruit in Epic Deal: Books
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2012-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/banana-king-stages-coup-gulps-united-fruit-in-epic-deal-books.html
Just weeks after 1929’s Black
Friday, a corporate merger sent Sam “the Banana Man” Zemurray
into early retirement, as giant United Fruit swallowed his
company in a stock swap.  The deal appears only halfway through  Rich Cohen ’s colorful
quasi-biography “ The Fish That Ate the Whale ,” so it’s clear
there’s more to be heard from the Banana Man, the hungry fish of
the title.  Zemurray came to America from  Russia  in 1891 at age 14 and
worked in an uncle’s store in Selma,  Alabama . He got started as
a banana peddler by selling the “ripes” that traders thought
wouldn’t make it to market in time. By age 21, “he had a
hundred thousand dollars in the bank,” Cohen writes.  As he expanded, he acquired companies and ships and in 1910
began buying land in  Honduras , where he set up plantations.
Along the way, Cohen sketches the banana’s trade history,
marketing and cultivation, and brings on intriguing minor
players. The term “banana republic” was coined by a Texas
newspaperman turned bank robber who fled to Honduras and wrote
under the name O. Henry.  Cohen captured eccentrics and business in his 2006 “Sweet
and Low,” which recounted how his own family amassed and messed
up an artificial-sweetener fortune. With Zemurray, the author
has a larger, grittier version of the American dream. The Banana
Man had no qualms about getting his hands dirty in the fields or
in the foreign offices where he paid bribes for trade
concessions.  Friendly Leader  When U.S. policy threatened his Honduran interests, he
tried to lobby the problem away and then financed a coup that
installed a friendly leader who protected the Banana Man’s
interests.  The centerpiece of this outsize life is the battle with
United Fruit Co. The company was huge in the 1920s, yet
Zemurray’s operation was big enough to force a showdown that led
to the merger. Zemurray retired and became an attentive
shareholder, with a U.F. stake initially valued at $30 million.  Then he saw mismanagement cut profit 85 percent between
1928 and 1932; the value of his stake sank to less than $3
million. When he offered to help, the board unwisely dismissed
his complaints “as the griping of a man who did not comprehend
the business cycle,” Cohen writes.  Zemurray’s Revenge  The next shareholder meeting featured Zemurray’s dramatic
flourish of controlling proxies as he fired the insulting board
chairman. The banana peddler took over the fruit empire.  The stage and the stakes were much bigger. When Guatemala
appropriated U.F. land in 1952, the man who built a business
with sweat, smarts and chutzpah now had lobbyists, flacks, Old
Boys and  Uncle Sam  to supply a trumped-up Commie-ousting coup in
1954 dubbed Operation Success.  Yet the fallout in public relations was costly. The heyday
of the gringo who could throw his weight and money around in
 Latin America  had passed. Post-coup critics noted U.F.’s
extensive government links in an operation that looked like
national policy in the service of corporate interests. The
 Justice Department , maybe not coincidentally, sued the company
for antitrust violations.  “It was an image problem that became acute,” Cohen
writes. U.F.’s profit dropped to a little more than $2 million
in 1960 from $66 million a decade earlier.  Zemurray retired again. When he died in 1961, he was worth
about $30 million, up from the $40 he made on his first
“ripes” deal. He had lived what Cohen calls “a parable of the
American dream,” with a moral that might be: There’s always one
deal too many.  “The Fish That Ate the Whale: The Life and Times of
America’s Banana King” is published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux
(270 pages, $27). To order this book in  North America , click
 here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on the arts and
 Jeremy Gerard  on theater.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 