-- Bayreuth Replaces Nazi-Tattooed Bass-Baritone With Korea’s Youn
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-07-23T11:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/bayreuth-replaces-nazi-tattooed-bass-baritone-with-korea-s-youn.html
The South Korean bass-baritone
Samuel Youn will sing the title role in “The Flying Dutchman”
at  Bayreuth Festival  after Yevgeny Nikitin withdrew because of
Nazi symbols he had tattooed on his chest in his youth.  Four days before Jan Philipp Gloger’s production of “The
Flying Dutchman” was due to open the festival, Nikitin
announced he wouldn’t sing. German media had confronted him
about the tattoos, which include a swastika that has since been
partially covered over with a brightly colored design and dates
back to his days in a Russian heavy metal band.  “I got these tattoos done in my youth,” Nikitin said in a
 statement  on the website. “It was a big error in my life and I
wish I had never done it. I was not aware of the extent to which
these signs and symbols can cause anger and upset, particularly
in the context of Bayreuth and the history of the festival.”  The Bayreuth Festival, which opens on July 25, is still
grappling with its tainted past. Richard Wagner was  Adolf Hitler ’s favorite composer and the Nazi dictator was unstinting
in his support of the opera festival. Winifred Wagner, the
composer’s daughter-in-law and grandmother of the two current
festival directors, was a close friend of Hitler and an admirer
of his policies until her death in 1980.  Family Archives  Winifred’s two sons took over the festival in 1951. After
Wolfgang Wagner’s resignation in 2008, the festival appointed
his daughters Katharina Wagner and her half-sister Eva Wagner- Pasquier to run it. Katharina Wagner has promised to open the
family archives for scholars to explore its history during the
Nazi era and mooted the possibility of an exhibition.  The Bayreuth management welcomed Nikitin’s decision to
withdraw, saying in a statement on its website that it “is in
accord with the festival leadership’s absolute rejection of any
form of National Socialist thinking.”  Nikitin would have been the first Russian to perform a
title role at Bayreuth, the festival founded by  Richard Wagner 
in 1876 in his purpose-built theater. His tattoos grabbed
attention after German television station ZDF showed an archive
clip of him performing bare-torsoed in a heavy metal band.  His replacement, Samuel Youn, studied singing in  Seoul ,
Milan and Cologne. He has been a member of the Cologne Opera
ensemble since 1999, and has previously sung in Bayreuth in
secondary roles in “Parsifal,” “Lohengrin” and
“Tannhaeuser.”  According to the Bayreuth statement, Gloger, the “Flying
Dutchman” director, sees “immense artistic damage to the
production” through the substitution that “it may not be
possible to completely overcome before the premiere.”  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  John
Mariani  on wine and  Martin Gayford  on art.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 