-- Floods Ease in Beijing After Rainstorms Leave 37 People Dead
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-23T14:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/beijing-s-worst-rainstorm-in-six-decades-leaves-37-people-dead.html
A weekend storm that dumped as much
as 16 inches of rain in Beijing, the most since records were
first kept 60 years ago, left 37 people dead, including a man
who drowned in his car after it was submerged under a bridge.  The July 21 rainstorm caused 10 billion  yuan  ($1.6 billion)
in flood damage and stranded about 80,000 travelers after their
flights were delayed,  China  Daily newspaper said. Authorities
evacuated 56,933 people from the hardest-hit areas, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported.  The storm spurred criticism on China’s  microblog services 
that city drainage systems were ill-equipped to handle the
deluge even after infrastructure upgrades and a 4 trillion yuan
stimulus package during the 2008 global financial crisis.  “The sewer system belongs to infrastructure, right?” Wang
Mudi, a television host in Guangdong, wrote on his microblog
with Sina Corp.’s Weibo service. “Then how much money of the 4
trillion yuan flowed to the sewer system?”  The flooding had eased in Beijing by the afternoon today.
The downpour in the capital was part of a broader storm across
the country that displaced at least 567,000 people and killed 95
since July 20, Xinhua reported.  Vice Premier Hui Liangyu today called for strengthened
weather monitoring and timely evacuation of residents, warning
that floods may occur at any time in major rivers in a year when
climate conditions have been “complicated and changeable.”  Record-setting Rain  An average of almost seven inches of rain fell in Beijing,
the most since records were first kept in 1951. The suburb of
Fangshan got more than 16 inches, Xinhua said.  Twenty-five people drowned, and 12 died in building
collapses or were electrocuted, Xinhua reported, citing the city
government. Beijing newspapers published photos of people
swimming from stranded vehicles, soldiers rescuing trapped
children and cars abandoned on flooded roads.  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  expressed his condolences
to Chinese counterpart President  Hu Jintao  about Beijing’s flood
victims, Xinhua reported, citing the Russian presidential press
service.  Criticism surrounding the toll entered even state-run
media, with the English-language Global  Times newspaper  saying
the flood’s casualties “exposed the vulnerability of Beijing’s
drainage system to flooding, as calls for the local government
to revamp the city’s outdated drainage infrastructure was
renewed.”  Speculation that the flood could lead to new infrastructure
projects may have boosted drainage-related stocks in China
today. Pump-maker  Zhejiang Leo Co. (002131)  rose 10 percent to 10.73 yuan
at the 3 p.m. close in Shenzhen, its biggest gain since April
25.  Ningxia Qinglong Pipes Industry Co. (002457)  rose 5.6 percent to 7.95
yuan, its biggest gain since May 29. The Shenzhen Composite
Index fell 1 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  