-- Best Buy Pay Expert Said to Quit Over Retention Bonuses
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/best-buy-pay-expert-said-to-quit-over-retention-bonuses.html
A compensation consultant to  Best
Buy Co. (BBY) ’s board quit after the electronics chain awarded more
than 100 managers retention bonuses without tying them to
performance, said three people with knowledge of the matter.  Don Delves, who worked with Best Buy’s compensation
committee for seven years as an independent consultant, was
opposed to the payments, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the situation is private. Delves, president
of the Chicago-based Delves Group, a corporate governance and an
executive pay advisory firm, confirmed in a telephone interview
that he resigned this month.  Chief Financial Officer James Muehlbauer and Michael Vitelli, head of the U.S. division, were among executives
awarded extra pay as incentive to stay while Best Buy seeks a
replacement for Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn , a June
regulatory filing shows. The retailer’s stock had sunk 22
percent this year through July 20, torpedoed by the first annual
 loss  in two decades and a scandal tied to Dunn’s conduct.  “There were no performance criteria or metrics tied to it
at all, which is sort of unusual,” said Frank Trestman,
chairman of Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy’s compensation
committee for 12 years until he resigned from the board in 2010.
“You always try to tie it or at least couple it with some other
offer that is performance related so it’s not just a matter of
sticking around.”  Leadership Continuity  Best Buy said the incentive pay is “intended to ensure
leadership continuity,” according to an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  “We’re confident that the compensation paid by Best Buy is
fair, reflects market realities and is based on responsible
practices that reflect the transformation of the organization,”
Best Buy said in the statement. “As part of our long-term plan,
and to ensure a strong and stable future for the company, Best
Buy’s board of directors has taken action to retain key senior
leaders during the current period of transition.”  Muehlbauer, Vitelli and two others -- International
President Shari Ballard and Carol Surface, the head of human
resources -- were set to get lump-sum cash payments of $500,000
each, according to the filing. The executives also were to
receive $2 million in restricted stock as part of the bonus
plan. Planned bonus packages for more than 100 other Best Buy
managers were structured similarly, said the people.  Retail Space  “Two million dollars is a lot just for sticking around,”
said James Reda, managing director of James F. Reda &
Associates, a New York-based executive compensation consulting
firm. “The retail space is shrinking so the odds of those four
leaving is not great.”  Best Buy director  Mike Mikan  is serving as interim chief
executive officer, earning annual cash compensation of $3.3
million and as many as 263,000 shares worth about $5 million
upon completion of the interim assignment, according to a
company statement May 21.  Trestman said Mikan’s compensation “seems exorbitant” if
the assignment “could last nine months, 10 months or 11 months
until you get a new CEO. I’m not saying that would be an
exorbitant package once you find a permanent CEO.”  Best Buy won’t discuss Mikan’s compensation or Trestman’s
comments, Bruce Hight, a spokesman for the company, said by
telephone.  Dunn, 52, resigned in April amid revelations that he had an
inappropriate relationship with a female employee. A month
later, the chain said an internal probe found both he and
Chairman Richard Schulze acted inappropriately in their handling
of the matter, triggering Schulze’s resignation as chairman.  Schulze, also Best Buy’s founder, is exploring whether to
take the retailer private as he examines options, including a
sale of his stake, a person familiar with the matter said last
month. He held more than 20 percent of the company as of June,
according to data  compiled  by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  