-- BNY Mellon Hires Abdella to Manage Insurers’ Portfolios
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-23T21:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/bny-mellon-hires-hartford-s-abdella-to-manage-insurer-funds.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s largest custody bank, hired Amanda E. Abdella as a
senior portfolio manager at a unit that oversees $19.3 billion
for insurance clients.  Abdella, who previously worked at  Hartford Financial
Services Group Inc. (HIG) , will have responsibility for managing
insurers’ bond portfolios, the New York-based bank’s Standish
Mellon Asset Management Co. said today in an e-mailed statement.  Asset managers including JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Conning
have been adding staff as they vie for mandates from insurance
clients. General-account assets overseen by the largest fund
managers surged by about 20 percent annually from 2001 to 2009,
to more than $1 trillion, according to a  report  by Swiss Re Ltd.  “Our pipeline for new business is robust and it behooves
us to be in front of that,” Anthony Criscuolo, Standish’s
managing director of insurance-client strategies, said today in
a phone interview. “We’re confident that we’re going to
continue to grow organically from our current clients as well as
with new business coming onboard.”  Abdella’s experience managing funds for life insurers will
help “round out” Standish’s insurance team, he said. The asset
manager primarily oversees funds for property-casualty and
health insurers.  Bigger Mandates  Standish increased its insurance funds under management by
almost 13 percent in the first half, according to the statement.
Part of the unit’s recent growth has come from winning bigger
mandates from existing clients, Criscuolo said.  About one in five insurance companies surveyed by  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said they were considering outsourcing more
funds in the near term, the New York-based bank said in a  study 
released today. Emerging-market debt, high-yield debt and bank
loans were the top three investment areas where the companies
were weighing third-party managers, according to the survey.  Abdella has a bachelor’s degree from  Clarkson University  in
Potsdam,  New York , and a master’s degree from the  University of
Connecticut , according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  