-- BofA Yanks Most Teller Machines From Malls, Gas Stations
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-23T20:18:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/bofa-yanks-9-of-teller-machines-from-malls-gas-stations.html
Bank of America Corp. , the lender
targeting $8 billion in expense cuts, reduced its automated
teller network almost 9 percent this year by yanking most of the
devices deployed at U.S. gas stations and malls.  The bank’s total number of ATMs fell by 1,536 in the first
half, a record decline, leaving it with 16,220 as of June 30,
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm  said  last week. Bank of
America didn’t renew deals to place its machines at sites owned
by  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , the biggest U.S. shopping mall
owner, and gas station operator  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , said Anne
Pace, a spokeswoman for the bank.  “When they put an ATM in a mall or gas station, they have
to rent that space in the same way that Sunglass Hut has to pay
for their space,” said  Bart Narter , a senior banking analyst at
consulting firm Celent. “They did the math and probably
concluded that these guys aren’t profitable.”  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  is shrinking the
bank’s footprint to focus on his most profitable clients after
regulations squeezed fees and he aborted plans to charge debit-
card users $5 a month. Moynihan shuttered 108 branches this year
and plans at least 30,000  job cuts  in a reversal of the
expansion led by his predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis .  “It’s going to be a smaller platform,” Moynihan said in a
November conference. “We have 42 million retail customers; many
of those don’t contribute or overcome their cost-to-serve.”  Limited Capability  Bank of America  chose to pull most of its ATMs at malls and
gas stations in part because those devices only dispensed cash
and weren’t available 24 hours a day, Pace said in an interview.
Customers want to be able to deposit checks at an ATM, she said.  “It’s about convenience and access, that’s what the
customers are looking for,” Pace said. “People aren’t banking
9 to 5, they are banking when it’s convenient for them.”  The move stems from Moynihan’s Project New BAC, an
efficiency plan targeting $8 billion in annual expenses by 2015.
The number of ATMs shouldn’t change much more, she said. Bank of
America, which has climbed 28 percent in New York trading this
year, rose 2 cents to $7.09 at 4 p.m.  It costs banks an average of $1,700 per month to run an ATM
on someone else’s property, compared with $1,100 at a branch,
said Tony Hayes, a partner at consulting firm  Oliver Wyman  in
Boston. The difference stems from rental costs and fees for
armored couriers to refill machines with cash, he said.  Valero’s Locations  “There are very real expenses to owning and operating
ATMs, and since banks don’t charge their own customers to use
the machine, the costs are borne entirely by surcharges paid by
non-customers,” Hayes said. “In the current environment, banks
are unable to support the cost structure they have
historically.”  Valero, one of the biggest U.S. refiners, also manages
about 1,000 U.S. retail locations mostly in  Texas , as well as in
Louisiana,  Arkansas ,  New Mexico ,  Colorado ,  Arizona , California
and Wyoming, said  Bill Day , a spokesman for the San Antonio-
based firm. Another 5,000 independently run sites that include
other  states  weren’t covered by the bank’s deal, he said.  “Each side has an option to renew and Bank of America
chose not to renew,” Day said in a telephone interview. “The
ones that belonged to Bank of America have been removed and in
most stores they’ve been replaced by other ATMs.”  Simon Property  had 325 retail locations across 41 states
and Puerto Rico as of April, said Les Morris, a spokesman for
the Indianapolis-based company. The number of mall ATMs hasn’t
changed, though the provider has, he said, without specifying
who replaced Bank of America.  Market Share  The retreat leaves Bank of America’s rivals with the chance
to grab market share, Todd Maclin, head of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s retail division, said in February. His company expanded
its ATM network by more than 5 percent in the first half, to
18,132 machines. JPMorgan replaced Bank of America as the
biggest U.S. lender by assets last year.  “We know a lot of our competitors are underinvesting, and
we’re taking that into account as we look at our investment
opportunities like branches and ATMs,” Maclin said during the
February conference. “But we’ve continued to invest and we
think we have shown that it will produce growth.”  Moynihan has told staff that he didn’t care that JPMorgan
eclipsed Bank of America in size and emphasized that his company
needed to slim down after Lewis spent more than $130 billion in
takeovers to gain market share in deposits, credit cards,
mortgages and  wealth management . In a January employee meeting
he called the firm a “leaner, meaner, fighting machine.”  Rival Networks  Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest lender by assets, had
about 10,000 branded ATMs, said spokesman  Sean Kevelighan .  Wells
Fargo & Co (WFC) , the No. 4 lender by assets and operator of the most
branches, had about 12,200 ATMs, according to Richele Messick, a
company spokeswoman.  ATMs have gained in importance as more than half of Bank of
America check deposits made at branches now involve the devices,
Pace said. The company may close 750 branches over the next few
years to focus on “high-density” areas that offer the best
returns, Moynihan said in April.  The CEO has said that his strategy is to sell more services
to Bank of America’s 8 million preferred clients, who had about
three-quarters of retail deposits and are 1.5 times as
profitable as the lower-tier group. The bank gives incentives by
removing service fees on checking accounts for those who use its
credit card, have a mortgage or Merrill Lynch brokerage account.  Moynihan had touted the reach of his ATM network last year
when saying why the proposed debit fee was fair for those with
less deposits or who have mortgages or credit-cards with other
lenders. He dropped the fee in November after a public backlash.  “The issue is when people split their relationship and use
our convenience and our access and our 18,000 ATMs and our no-
foreign ATM fees and our online banking product and all that,
and yet have their relationship elsewhere,” Moynihan said in
October. “That is tough for us to afford to provide.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  