-- Bradesco Shares Decline After Late Payments, Provisions
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o   a n d   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-07-23T20:13:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/bradesco-earnings-miss-estimates-as-credit-growth-slows.html
Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,  Latin America ’s
second-largest bank by market value, fell the most in almost a
year in Sao Paulo trading after increasing provisions in the
second quarter on higher delinquencies.  Bradesco, based in Osasco,  Brazil , slid 4.8 percent to
29.07 reais ($14.26) at 5:06 p.m., the biggest  decline  since
Aug. 8. The Bovespa benchmark index dropped 2.2 percent.  “Default rates are the main concern about the sector right
now, and investors didn’t seem to like the increase in
Bradesco’s provisions,”  Pedro Galdi , chief strategist at Sao
Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a telephone
interview.  Provisions jumped 40 percent to 3.41 billion reais from a
year earlier and are now adequate “regarding the estimated
losses from certain corporate customers under the process of
debt restructuring,” Bradesco said in a statement today. Late
payments for debt overdue more than 90 days advanced to 4.2
percent in the second quarter, from 4.1 percent in the previous
three months and 3.7 percent in June 2011.  Adjusted net income, which excludes one-time items, climbed
to 2.87 billion reais, or 2.97 centavos a share, from 2.83
billion reais, or 2.82 centavos, a year earlier, according to
the statement. That missed the 2.92 billion reais  average 
estimate of eight analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Bradesco Chief Executive Officer Luiz Carlos Trabuco Cappi,
60, said the increase in the provisions for corporate clients
isn’t a concern and delinquency rates will tend to fall in
coming quarters as companies start to deleverage and the central
bank reduces  interest rates .  Conservative Provision  “This provision shows conservatism,” he told reporters in
a conference call today. “Delinquencies are under control.”  Bradesco expanded lending at a slower pace than federally
controlled  Banco do Brasil SA , Latin America’s largest bank by
assets. Banco do Brasil cut rates and boosted credit after
pressure from Brazil President  Dilma Rousseff .  “Bradesco is focusing more on maintaining spreads than
gaining market share,” Flavio Yoshida and Andre Parize,
analysts with Votorantim Corretora in Sao Paulo, wrote in a
report July 16.  The lender’s loan book increased 14 percent to 365 billion
reais in the second quarter from a year earlier. Last month,
Bradesco reduced its credit growth forecast to 14 percent to 18
percent from a previous range of 18 percent to 22 percent. Total
assets rose almost 21 percent to 830.5 billion reais from a year
earlier.  Banco do Brasil increased lending almost 21 percent in the
second quarter, close to the high end of its 17 percent to 21
percent guidance range for 2012, Alexandre Abreu, vice president
of the retail business, said July 13, citing preliminary
figures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net ;
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  