-- Brazil Inflation Surprise Won’t Threaten Goal, Tombini Says
-- B y   M a t t   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-07-23T20:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/brazil-inflation-surprise-won-t-threaten-goal-tombini-says-1-.html
The jump in Brazilian consumer
prices this month was a temporary reversal and won’t jeopardize
the government’s 4.5 percent inflation target this year, central
bank President Alexandre Tombini said.  Prices as measured by the mid-month IPCA-15  index  rose 0.33
in July, exceeding all 42 estimates in a Bloomberg survey of
analysts whose median forecast was for a 0.18 percent rise.
Consumer prices rose 5.24 percent from a year earlier, the
national statistics agency reported July 20.  Brazil ’s economy will accelerate in the second half without
stoking inflation, Tombini said today. The mid-July consumer
price reading was affected by bad weather that pushed up food
prices, he said.  “Convergence will take place, this process is not a linear
one, it is not a homogeneous one,” Tombini said in a conference
call with international reporters. “Between August and December
there is a lot of room for the process of convergence to
continue and for us to get to our target for 2012.”  The central bank has cut the benchmark Selic rate by 450
basis points since August to a record low 8 percent, as the
world’s largest emerging market after  China  struggles to spur
growth and offset the effects of  Europe ’s debt crisis.  ‘Quicker Inflation’  “Tombini signaled that interest rate cuts will continue
despite quicker inflation in July,”  Andre Perfeito , chief
economist at Gradual Investimentos, said in a telephone
interview from  Sao Paulo .  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in Sao Paulo today, fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 7.69 percent at 5:02 p.m. local time.
Traders are betting the bank will lower the Selic by as much as
75 basis points by November, according to Bloomberg estimates
based on swap rates.  Investors are signaling that could come at the price of
higher inflation. The gap between inflation-linked bonds and
fixed-rate bonds maturing in 2015, a gauge of bond holders’
inflation expectations, rose five basis points to 5.29 percent
at 5:03 p.m. local time from 5.24 percent on July 23.  Tombini today repeated the government’s assessment that
growth will quicken to a pace of about 4 percent by year-end as
local markets react to monetary stimulus and government tax
breaks, reviving growth. Preliminary data from June show a
reduction in loan delinquency of more than 90 days, and a
sharper reduction in delinquency of 15 to 90 days, thus opening
up more room for economic growth, Tombini said at an event in
Brasilia.  Low Unemployment  Tombini said that expanding credit in June and record low
levels of unemployment point to a pickup and that he’s
“comfortable” with his outlook for stronger growth in the $2.5
trillion economy.  An 8.6 percent slide in the real this year is also helping
revive manufacturing, as stockpiles have fallen since the start
of the year, he added.  Brazil’s  gross domestic product  grew 0.8 percent at an
annualized rate in the first quarter. The central bank forecasts
growth will reach 2.5 percent this year, while economists
surveyed by the bank predict expansion of 1.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  