-- Brazil’s Vale Seen Posting Best Mining Profit Surprise
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-07-23T21:06:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/brazil-s-vale-seen-posting-best-mining-profit-surprise.html
Vale SA (VALE3)  is poised to deliver the
biggest earnings surprise this year among the world’s top three
mining companies as analysts raise profit projections, while
lowering forecasts for  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group.  Analysts increased estimates for Vale’s adjusted net income
for this year by 7.7 percent in the past four weeks to $16.7
billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Forecasts for
BHP, the world’s largest mining company, and Rio Tinto fell 1.3
percent and 6.6 percent, respectively, the data show.  The Brazilian real’s 23 percent decline against the  U.S.
dollar  in the past year means cheaper labor and operational
costs for Rio de Janeiro-based Vale, which gets about  half  its
sales from exports to Asia. The bulk of BHP and Rio’s operations
are in  Australia , whose dollar fell 3.5 percent. Vale will
benefit from  China ’s steps to stimulate its economy, said
Jonathan Brandt, an analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Given stimulus measures that we have seen in China, there
is a greater risk for a positive surprise than a negative
surprise,” Brandt said in a July 20 telephone interview from
 New York . “The weaker real will help Vale with their cost
pressure.”  Before today, shares in Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore
producer, gained 0.2 percent this year, compared with an 8.9
percent decline for Melbourne-based BHP and a 7.5 percent drop
for  Rio Tinto (RIO) , based in  London . Vale fell 2.6 percent to close
at 36.88 reais in  Sao Paulo  today.  Vale probably will report on July 25 that second-quarter
earnings per share excluding extraordinary items fell to 75.7
cents from $1.22 a year earlier, according to the  average 
estimate of 11 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Vale will release
earnings after the close of regular trading hours.  Stronger Earnings  The mining company’s earnings are set to strengthen in the
second half of the year as Chinese growth regains momentum, said
Laurence Balter, who oversees $100 million, including Vale
shares, for Fox Island, Washington-based Oracle Investment
Research.  The second-quarter will be “the trough in earnings for the
year as I see the second half picking up on China stimulus and a
strengthening price for  iron ore ,” Balter said. “If the real
weakens further this will boost earnings in the coming
quarters.”  Vale said last week that it increased iron-ore production
0.4 percent to 80.5 million metric tons in the second quarter, a
record for the period, beating analysts’ estimates after
rainfall at its Carajas mine was less than in the past year.  Rio Tinto, the No. 2 iron-ore producer, said output was
little changed from a year earlier at 48.6 million tons, while
BHP, the third-biggest, reported output increased 15 percent to
40.9 million tons in the three months ended June 30.  Year’s Profit  For the year, Vale’s adjusted net income will total $16.8
billion, according to the average of 18 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That would be 26 percent less than a
record $22.9 billion in 2011.  Rio Tinto  is forecast to post
adjusted profit of $12 billion in 2012 while BHP’s fiscal-year
profit is estimated at $17.4 billion, according to analysts’
estimates.  While benefiting from a weakening real, Vale’s sales may be
hurt by declining iron prices, Curt Woodworth, a New-York based
analyst with Nomura Securities International Inc., said in a
telephone interview July 18.  “In the short run, mills in China will have to cut
production to improve inventories so prices will be relatively
weak in the third quarter,” Woodworth said.  Chinese Rebound  Officials at Vale’s press office in Rio de Janeiro declined
to comment before the earnings report. Rio Tinto spokesman
Illtud Harri and BHP spokesman  Ruban Yogarajah , both based in
London, declined to comment.  China, which accounted for almost 60 percent of global
iron-ore demand in the first half of the year, expanded 7.6
percent in the second quarter from a year ago, the sixth
straight slowdown. That’s putting pressure on Premier  Wen Jiabao 
to boost stimulus to secure a second-half economic rebound.  The People’s Bank of China cut its benchmark  interest rates 
on July 5 for the second time in a month and analyst
expectations for further policy easing rose after China’s
consumer price index declined in June.  The stimulus measures will start taking effect, allowing
the Chinese economy to improve its performance in the second
half of the year, HSBC’s Brandt said.  “There is always the possibility that China takes
additional measures,” he said. “The depreciation of the real
will help Vale regain some competitiveness.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net 
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  