-- Breadbaskets of Last Resort See Once-in-a-Lifetime Prices
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-07-23T20:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/breadbaskets-of-last-resort-see-once-in-a-lifetime-prices.html
In a field near Steele,  North
Dakota , Anthony Mock points out golden tassels forming on corn
stalks a foot above his head. While farmers in the heart of the
U.S. Corn Belt cope with the worst drought in half a century, he
and his neighbors in the Northern Plains are seeing signs of a
rich harvest.  “We’re fortunate because we’ve caught some rain,” said
Mock, 39. “We should have enough moisture to carry us through
pollination and be OK.”  Mock, whose Chevy pickup sports CORN vanity plates, was
concerned when he added 500 acres of the grain to his crop mix
this year as the federal government forecast record output. Yet
his gamble is paying off as the worst U.S. drought in five
decades has reduced the nation’s projected harvest and pushed
the value of the surviving crop today to a record $8 a bushel.  “It’s a once-in-a-lifetime event,” said  Roger Johnson ,
former North Dakota agriculture commissioner and now president
of the Washington-based  National Farmers Union , the nation’s
second-largest growers organization. “I would be getting crops
out of the field and into the grain elevator as fast as
possible.”  While the heart of U.S. crop country bakes, the northern
edges of the Midwest and Plains states, along with some southern
states, are still producing -- and benefiting from higher
prices.  Record Prices  The nation’s best-rated corn crop was in two border states,
with 61 percent of  Minnesota ’s crop and 58 percent of North
Dakota’s listed in “good” or “excellent” condition as of
yesterday, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said. Nationwide,
good and excellent ratings applied to 26 percent of the crop,
the lowest for this date since 1988. Quality declined for both
states and the nation compared with last year.  Almost a third, or about 1,300, of the nation’s counties
spread across 29 states have been declared natural-disaster
areas by the USDA. The dry weather also pushed soybeans to a
record $16.915 a bushel today on the Chicago Board of Trade.  North Dakota, however, recorded rainfall in June closer to
normal than all but two of the top 10 U.S. corn-producing
states. As of July 17, none of the state was experiencing
extreme drought, even as 28 percent of the High Plains and 12
percent of the Midwest were in such conditions, according to the
government.  Highest Ratings  The state’s spring wheat, important for bread products and
flour exports, has the highest plant-quality ratings in the
nation. Its corn conditions are second only to neighboring
Minnesota’s. Early-season oat and barley harvests are under way,
before the plants can be harmed by drought.  North Dakota farmers this year sowed  3.2 million  acres with
corn, triple the acreage of a decade ago. This was due to the
development of a local ethanol market and new seed varieties
from  Monsanto Co. (MON)  and  Dupont Co. (DD)  that are better able to
withstand the state’s harsher climate and shorter growing
season. Nationwide, plantings were at their highest since 1937.  The state’s good fortune this year is based partly on
disastrous conditions in 2011, when floods prevented many
farmers from planting. Near Mohall, about 25 miles south of the
Canadian border, Jeff Oberholtzer only seeded 7 percent of his
land last year as mud almost swallowed any equipment he tried to
put in the field. Yet the floods left moisture deep in the soil,
ready to withstand drier days ahead.  Extra Rain  “The soybeans and corn are all looking pretty good,”
Oberholtzer said. “We’re seeing flowers on the beans and the
spring wheat, the corn tassels are just starting to pop through.
This is only the third year we’ve been growing corn, but it
seems to be a good fit.”  Smaller crops elsewhere mean higher prices for areas where
plants have flourished. Robert Tweeten, a Washburn, North
Dakota-area farmer who irrigates some of his corn with water
from the nearby Missouri River, said he expects a “better-than-
average” crop that, with an extra inch of rain in the next 10
days, could improve further.  Fertilizer, seed and other production costs in central
North Dakota add up to about $4 a bushel. At prices that may
easily double that, a 1,000-acre field with a yield of 120
bushels an acre -- a good year in North Dakota -- would bring
almost $500,000 in profit, about $100,000 more than the return
using last year’s average price.  That will allow farmers to buy new equipment and pay down
debt.  Sunflower Planting  “But it’s happening on the back of another farmer” in
another part of the country, Tweeten said. “That’s how it
works. The drought down there has made our prices better, so it
becomes our good year and their bad year.”  And weather patterns are fickle, said Clark Coleman, who
raises corn, barley, sunflowers and other crops about 15 miles
north of Bismarck. The drought hasn’t yet hit North Dakota hard,
but it’s spreading, and that’s making it more likely he’ll cut
back on corn in favor of more drought-resistant sunflowers next
year.  For now, Coleman said he’s been blessed with enough
moisture to make it through the critical pollination stage that
ensures an adequate harvest. The corn is starting to get drier,
yet its deep roots in the subsoil should ensure a decent crop,
he said. And the condition of his malt barley, used for
alcoholic beverages, is excellent.  “The beer should be good,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  