-- Cadillac Driving to Disrupt BMW-Mercedes U.S. Luxury Grip
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-07-23T20:02:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/cadillac-driving-to-disrupt-bmw-mercedes-u-s-luxury-grip.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  took to a Georgia
racetrack to show that its first compact Cadillac in a quarter-
century drives as well as a BMW 3 Series. The trickier part will
be getting it to sell as well.  While the horsepower of the Cadillac ATS is important, its
lease payment ultimately may determine the success of the new
model.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW brand and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz have fueled much of their growth with monthly
lease deals on the 3 Series and C-Class that have, in some
cases, dipped as low as $299 a month. High resale values help,
too.  “If the price is similar to the Europeans and the monthly
payment similar, it will be a challenge to reach their
volumes,” Tom Libby, lead North American analyst for R.L. Polk
& Co., said in a telephone interview. “Those two brands and
those two models, particularly the 3 Series, have extraordinary
equity in the mind of the luxury consumer.”  GM won’t chase BMW and Mercedes into a price war,  Don Butler , Cadillac vice president for marketing, said last week
during an interview in an ATS parked alongside the Atlanta
Motorsports Park racetrack, where GM showed the new car to
reviewers.  “We need to show that we are in the game, in the ballpark,
but I’m not going to be as successful as I need to be in terms
of building the brand if it’s kind of distressed from the start,
and if it’s almost bribing people to come give me an
opportunity,” Butler said. “Where do you go from there?”  The automaker fell 0.3 percent to $19.30 at the close in
 New York .  Global Brand  GM, based in  Detroit , is counting on the ATS to increase
Cadillac sales in the U.S. and  China  as part of Chief Executive
Officer Dan Akerson’s push to make the brand more global. He
wants to boost luxury brand sales to offset declines in high-
margin trucks.  The ATS and XTS full-size sedan introduced earlier this
year are the first new  Cadillac  offerings since 2009’s SRX
sport-utility vehicle and 2010’s coupe version of the CTS sedan.
They are the first nameplates added to the brand’s lineup since
the SRX was introduced in 2003.  Cadillac was once the epitome of luxury: The first brand to
mass-produce a V-8 engine in 1915, it was known for big,
comfortable cars and later for its hulking Escalade SUV. In
1988, it stopped making its last compact, the Cimarron, which
Time magazine called one of the 50 worst cars of all time.  Cadillac hasn’t led in U.S. luxury sales since 1997, Libby
said, and last year sold only about 60 percent as many vehicles
as BMW and Mercedes-Benz in the U.S.  GM begins a TV ad campaign for the ATS this week during the
opening night of the Olympics broadcast on NBC. The vehicle
starts arriving in showrooms in August and September.  The entry-level version of the  ATS  can go from zero to 60
mph (97 kph) in 7.5 seconds and is rated to get a combined city
and highway fuel economy of 26 mpg, the company said.  Competitive Prices  The sedan starts at $33,095, excluding destination costs,
and will have monthly lease payments around $389 to $399, Butler
said. The 3 Series begins at $36,500 with monthly lease prices
advertised as low as $399 per month and the C-Class starts at
$34,800 with lease offers as low as $369 per month, according to
BMW and Mercedes websites last week.  Pricing of the ATS reaches about $49,000 for the premium
model that includes a 3.6-liter, V-6 engine and all-wheel drive,
and reaches 60 mph in 5.6 seconds, the company said. Options for
the ATS include safety features such as seats that vibrate when
the car unintentionally departs its lane.  GM has picked a good price for the ATS for now, said Libby,
the analyst. “It’s much easier to go down than to go up,” he
said in an e-mail. GM executives “will see how sales are at the
starting price and monthly payment, and then adjust.”  Lease Payments  Monthly lease payments play an important part in selling
compact luxury cars to entry-level customers, said  Jesse Toprak ,
an industry analyst in  Santa Monica ,  California , with
TrueCar.com, a website that tracks auto sales. More than 60
percent of BMW and Mercedes sales in the U.S. are lease deals,
he said.  About 36 percent of Cadillac’s sales are leases, Butler
said. He said he expects leases to make up 40 to 50 percent of
ATS sales.  “If you look at how much car people are able to lease,
which is just a simple ratio of dividing the MSRP by the lease
payments, you see that typically the German brands offer much
greater value than Cadillac,” Toprak said. “If Cadillac wants
any chance of convincing the import buyers into taking a look at
the new ATS, they just simply have to be more aggressive when it
comes to leasing.”  Incentive Spending  BWM and Mercedes have increased spending on incentives this
year as they’ve battled for the year’s U.S. luxury sales crown.
BMW, based in Munich, increased incentive spending per car 11
percent to $4,016 during the first half of the year, according
to researcher Autodata Corp. Mercedes promotion spending on its
cars rose 18 percent to $4,005 during the same period. Both
exceeded the $2,747 on average GM spent on its cars.  Through six months, Stuttgart, Germany-based Mercedes U.S.
sales rose 16 percent to 128,595, to lead BMW by 2,091. BMW,
which overtook Lexus last year to become the top-selling luxury
brand in the U.S., sold 126,504 during the first half, an 11
percent gain. BMW beat Mercedes last year by 2,715 deliveries.  The totals don’t include Daimler’s Sprinter vans and Smart
cars and BMW’s Mini brand, which aren’t  luxury vehicles .  U.S. sales of 3 Series sedans rose 15 percent during the
first half to 33,991 while C-Class sedan deliveries increased 10
percent to 33,121,  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata
said.  Sales Outlook  GM wants to sell more than 50,000 of the ATS annually,
Butler said. IHS Automotive has estimated that Cadillac will
sell 15,000 of the ATS this year and 60,000 next year, including
a coupe version that it expects in 2013.  Near Atlanta last week,  Aaron Bragman , an industry analyst
for IHS Automotive, took a test run around the two-mile course
in the ATS.  “The target being obviously the BMW 3 Series and I think
they’ve easily created a viable competitor for it,” Bragman
said. “Driving wise, I think it’s extremely comparable. It
feels very European. It feels very German to me in terms of the
way it drives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Atlanta at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  