-- Canadian Dollar Falls to 11-Day Low on European Crisis Concern
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-07-23T21:32:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/canadian-dollar-drops-on-speculation-european-crisis-deepening.html
Canada’s dollar fell to the lowest
level in 11 days against its U.S. counterpart on speculation
Europe’s debt crisis is worsening as Spanish bond yields rose
above 7.5 percent, dimming the outlook for the global economy.  Canada’s currency, which tends to appreciate on prospects
for its commodity exports, dropped against a majority of its
most-traded peers as crude oil fell more than $3 a barrel.
Canadian 10-year bond yields reached a record low as investors
fled to the safety of government assets.  “The major issue the global markets are focusing on is
going to be Europe,”  John Curran , a senior vice president at
CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer, said in a
telephone interview. “The Canadian dollar is just going to
react to global events.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, declined 0.6
percent to C$1.0188 cents per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto,
after touching the weakest level since July 12. It reached a
record high C$1.2327 versus the euro. One Canadian dollar buys
98.15 U.S. cents.  Government bonds  rose. Canada’s 10-year yield dropped three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 1.58 percent. It
touched 1.565 percent, the lowest yield since 1950, according to
Bank of Canada and Bloomberg data. The 2.75 percent security
maturing in June 2022 increased 29 cents at C$110.64.  China Deal  Cnooc Ltd., China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer,
agreed to pay $15.1 billion in cash to acquire Canada’s Nexen
Inc. The purchase is the biggest overseas acquisition by a
Chinese company.  Nexen would give Cnooc assets in Canada, the U.K., West
Africa and the  Gulf of Mexico  that produced 207,000 barrels a
day in the second quarter, boosting the Chinese company’s output
by about 20 percent.  The deal “highlights the overall psychology that there is
tremendous interest in Canadian-based assets from foreign,
particularly Chinese companies,”  Camilla Sutton , head of
currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto, said in a
telephone interview.  Retail sales are forecast to have increased 0.5 percent in
May after a 0.5 percent drop in April, according to the median
estimate of 25 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before
 Statistics Canada  reports data tomorrow in Ottawa.  The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond jumped to as much as 7.57
percent, the highest since the euro was created, while the cost
of insuring against default on the nation’s sovereign debt also
soared to a record before it auctions bills tomorrow.  “Rising risk aversion combined with global growth is
fairly negative for the Canadian dollar,” Sutton said. “We’ve
seen a shift right across  currency markets  to favor  U.S. dollar 
and also seen a slight shift in terms of the  bond market 
favoring bonds of higher-rated sovereigns.”  The loonie will end the year at C$1.02 per U.S. dollar,
according to median estimate of 44 forecasters surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in  New York  at 
lrupp@@bloomberg.net;
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  