-- Canada Shifts Toward China With $15 Billion Nexen Deal
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-07-24T05:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/canada-shifts-toward-china-with-15-billion-nexen-bid.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion cash
takeover bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  signals a Canadian shift toward
 China  and away from the U.S. as the nation’s traditional oil and
natural-gas partner and main export market.  Canada ’s  oil sands  reserves, the third-largest recoverable
crude deposits in the world, were developed in part by U.S.
money as companies such as California’s Richfield Oil Corp.
brought technology to extract bitumen from boreal peat bogs half
a century ago. Now, for the first time, a Chinese company will
own and operate oil-sands crude production as well as Nexen’s
shale-gas assets in British Columbia, along with leases in other
parts of the world.  “This is really a decoupling of the north-south axis with
the U.S.,” Michael Black, a partner with Fasken Martineau
DuMoulin LLP who has advised on C$8.5 billion ($8.4 billion)
worth of Canadian deals by  Abu Dhabi Nation Energy Co. (TAQA) , said in
an interview. “The U.S. guys just aren’t coming up here the way
they used to. It further illustrates Chinese interest in big
assets, big reserves and Canadian expertise.”  Chinese oil producers have turned more frequently to Canada
after political opposition in the U.S. derailed Cnooc’s $18.5
billion bid for Unocal Corp. in 2005, and after  TransCanada
Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone XL pipeline route south to Texas was blocked by
President  Barack Obama ’s administration last year.  Friendly Supplier  China, seeking to add oil and gas reserves to meet demand
in the world’s largest energy-consuming country, sees Canada as
a ready supplier as it prepares to expand its pipeline network
to the Pacific coast for exports to Asia.  Over the past decade, Chinese companies have spent $53.4
billion on Canadian oil and gas fields and companies, compared
to $30.8 billion invested in the sector by U.S. companies,
according to Bloomberg data.  “Canada is politically stable, has fantastic assets and
technological know-how in the oil and gas sector,” said Dan
Cheng, vice president at Calgary-based Matco Financial Inc.,
which oversees C$375 million in assets including Canadian oil
and gas companies. “Canadian politicians and companies have
been going over to China a lot recently. It’s easy to speculate
that there are more deals to come.”  The Canadian government, which turned down a 2010 hostile
$40 billion bid by  BHP Billiton Ltd (BHP)  for  Potash Corp. (POT)  of
Saskatchewan Inc., has to approve the transaction. Potash Corp.
is the world’s largest supplier of the fertilizer, which is
produced in only a handful of countries around the world.  Geographic Diversity  By comparison, less than a third of Nexen’s  second-quarter 
oil and gas production of 207,000 barrels a day was in Canada.
Cnooc nevertheless will gain access to Canadian engineers and
geologists familiar with developing and operating oil sands and
shale-gas projects, said Fasken’s Black. The company’s other
assets include production platforms in the North Sea, the  Gulf
of Mexico  and in  Nigeria .  Canada’s oil and gas and other natural resource industries
have traditionally been open to foreign investment to speed
development, Lysle Brinker, director of energy equity research
at IHS Herold, said by telephone from Cape Elizabeth, Maine.  “It’s in the interest of the long term viability and the
health of the Canadian oil and gas industries” to approve the
Nexen takeover, he said. And the Canadian government has taken a
“long-term view” to recognize the  energy industry  needs a lot
of investment to succeed, he said.  Deal Price  China’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer is paying
$27.50 for each common share, a premium of 61 percent to
Calgary-based Nexen’s  closing price  on July 20, according to its
statement to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange yesterday. Nexen’s
board recommended the deal to its shareholders.  Cnooc was 3.6 percent at HK$14.88 at 1:01 p.m. compared
with a 0.2 percent gain in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  in Hong
Kong after a delayed start to trading because of a typhoon.  “The 61 percent premium is huge, it’s totally
unreasonable,” said Laban Yu , an analyst at Jefferies Hong
Kong Ltd., who cut his rating on Cnooc shares to
underperform from hold after the deal was announced yesterday.  Cnooc last year acquired Nexen’s partner Opti Canada Inc.,
which held a minority stake in the Long Lake project, a
production operation that uses steam to melt underground seams
of tar-like bitumen and refines it in giant vats called
upgraders. The joint venture allowed them to better understand
the business as well as the political context, said  Wenran Jiang , an adviser to the Alberta government and director of the
Canada-China Energy and Environment Forum.  “The political context in Canada is very good at the
moment,” Jiang said in an interview. “The Chinese have been
careful to step up their involvement in Canada slowly. This
isn’t coming out of nowhere.”  Strained Ties  Canada’s traditionally close energy ties to the U.S. were
strained in the past year by political controversy that
threatened to stall TransCanada’s plans to ship crude from
Alberta to the Texas Gulf Coast via its Keystone pipeline. As
TransCanada redesigns the project to overcome U.S. environmental
objections, the Canadian government stepped up its courtship of
China.  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  and Alberta Premier
Alison Redford have visited China this year to promote Canada’s
energy industry and build trans-Pacific ties. Harper told
Chinese business leaders in February during a dinner in
Guangzhou, China, that he wants to take Canada’s economic
partnership to “the next level.”  “We want to sell our energy to people who want to buy our
energy,” Harper said at the time. “It’s that simple.”  The Nexen deal is one of two major Chinese energy
acquisitions announced yesterday.  China Petrochemical Corp. (1314) 
agreed to spend $1.5 billion for a 49 percent stake in Calgary-
based  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM) ’s U.K. unit after spending $2.2
billion last year to buy Canada’s Daylight Energy Ltd.  Nexen Options  Before the Nexen purchase was announced, trading in bullish
options on the Canadian company’s  U.S. shares  last week reached
the highest level since March 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The activity, which included three trades that may bring
profits of more than $40 million, may indicate the deal was
leaked, according to Joe Kunkle, founder of OptionsHawk.com, a
Boston-based provider of options market data and analytics.  Nexen has been searching for a new CEO since Marvin Romanow
stepped down in January amid a slumping share price and missed
production targets. Nexen’s  market value  had plunged 60 percent
before today from a high of C$43.45 in June 2008 as prices fell
for natural gas, which accounts for about 20 percent of output.
Production growth also slowed more than the company expected
because of setbacks at projects in Canada’s oil sands and in the
 North Sea .  Calgary Headquarters  “The Chinese have shown that they’re good at buying assets
that have long-term value,” said Jennifer Stevenson, who helps
oversee about C$5 billion in assets at Dynamic Funds in Calgary
and doesn’t own Nexen shares.  Cnooc will add 900 million barrels of oil equivalent
reserves at $19.94 per barrel through the deal, according to a
document posted on the company’s website. Cnooc plans to boost
output by as much as 2.7 percent this year to the equivalent of
as much as 930,000 barrels of oil a day.  Calgary will become one of Cnooc’s international
headquarters and the operations hub for overseeing an additional
$8 billion in assets in North and Central America. The Chinese
company will list its shares on the Toronto  exchange , it said in
the statement yesterday.  “This agreement diversifies our reserve base by adding to
our presence in Canada while providing high quality assets,”
Cnooc Chief Executive Officer Li Fanrong said today in a
conference call with reporters. “We are in Canada to invest.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  