-- McCartney Joins Sheepdogs, Hirst Skull in Olympic Arts Festival
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-07-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/mccartney-joins-sheepdogs-hirst-skull-in-olympic-arts-festival.html
An estimated billion people will
tune in on July 27 to watch the  London 2012 Olympic Games 
opening ceremony by Oscar-winning “Slumdog Millionaire”
director  Danny Boyle .  The event is part of a rich slate of cultural events, from
the historic to the histrionic.  Hours earlier,  Daniel Barenboim  conducts the West-Eastern
Divan Orchestra of young Arab and Israeli musicians in
Beethoven’s 9th Symphony, the final performance in their nine-
symphony tribute to Beethoven at the  Royal Albert Hall .  At 8:12 a.m. that morning local time, bells of all kinds --
doorbells, ringtones, Navy bells, even Big Ben -- will usher in 
the Games countrywide in a collective chiming work conceived by 
artist  Martin Creed .  “When I was a kid, I remember the local church sometimes
ringing its bells in a crazy cacophonous way when there was a
wedding,” Creed said in an interview. “I always thought it was
a very beautiful and exciting sound.”  “So I thought, to try to ring all of the  bells  in the
whole country would be a nice thing to do on this special
occasion of the Olympics,” he said.  The arts agenda is part of a four-year, 105 million pound
Olympic cultural program up and down the country that continues
after the games’ Aug. 12 finish.  For the opening-ceremony celebration of British history and
culture, director Boyle is turning the Olympic Stadium into a
meadow teeming with sheep, goats, cows, horses, chickens, geese
and sheepdogs, not to mention 10,000 human volunteers.  Digital McCartney  Paul McCartney  will be among the performers. Albums of the
opening and closing ceremonies will be available digitally
immediately after the ceremony.  The original games in  Greece  likewise featured farm animals
in a celebration of Greek-ness. Only they were sacrificed in
rituals to placate the potentially menacing gods.  “The games were an act of worship recognizing Zeus’s
power,” said Paul Cartledge, professor of Greek culture at
 Cambridge University  and author of more than 20 books on Greece.
“You wanted to keep him sweet.”  During the opening ceremony, every athlete made an oath and
offered animals -- oxen, cows, chickens, goats -- in sacrifice.
Midway through the games (which lasted just under a week), 100
bulls were slaughtered, cooked and shared by the 40,000 people
present.  Artists popped up during sporting lulls to tout their
talents.  Olympian Offering  “If you were an ambitious sculptor, you would go to
Olympia and offer your services,” said Cartledge. “You’d have
a maquette of what you were going to make for your client.”  By contrast,  London ’s Olympic cultural extravaganza has
been commissioning art for the last four years, leaving little
to chance, except for a few spontaneous events.  Jeremy Deller’s life-sized inflatable Stonehenge, for
instance, is popping up in locations revealed not long in
advance. The bouncy castle, 35 meters in diameter, offers
everyone a chance to jump on a key piece of heritage. (For its
whereabouts, see www.sacrilege2012.co.uk).  In another pop-up event starting after the games and
orchestrated by award-winning “Jerusalem” actor  Mark Rylance ,
some 50 actors will sidle up to pedestrians reciting
Shakespearean verse (Aug. 28 to Sept. 9). They might ask the
time, then lapse into “Shall I compare thee to a summer’s
day?”  Rylance’s Richard  Rylance himself plays Richard III in the Globe Theatre’s
all-male, historically correct production of the Shakespeare
play (through Oct. 13). He then plays Olivia in “Twelfth
Night.”  Shakespeare gets his very own gallery exhibition: at the
 British Museum  (through Nov. 25), an evocation of the London he
knew -- full of brothels and bear fights -- and the many other
places that inspired him:  Venice , the Americas, North Africa.  The National Gallery glorifies the goddess Diana in a free
show. The three Titian masterpieces that she inspired hang side-
by-side for the first time since the 18th century, alongside
three contemporary commissioned works including  Mark Wallinger ’s
homage to Diana, who turned Actaeon into a stag for sneaking a
peek at her naked body.  Wallinger’s riposte is a walled enclosure featuring a real-
life model in a bathtub whose face, elbow or shoulder you’ll
glimpse if you peer through a keyhole or a Venetian blind.  See also clips, costumes and sets from the specially
commissioned Royal Ballet production “Metamorphosis: Titian
2012.”  Unilever Series  Tate Modern has gone avant-garde for its Olympic-season
slate, and invited artist Tino Sehgal (hosted at the Guggenheim
in  New York  in 2010) to take over the Turbine Hall in the
Unilever Series. Sehgal has a group of “participants” move
around the sloping lobby at varying speeds, individually or in
swarms, and stopping to have conversations with visitors.  East of the Turbine Hall are  Tate’s  newly opened Tanks:
arena-sized spaces that once contained oil for electricity
generation in the ex-power station. Now venues for film and
performance art, they’re open through Oct. 28. The Tate also has
the Damien Hirst show that includes his diamond skull.  The Institute of Contemporary Arts has taken over an East
London garage to show more than a dozen  BMW cars  redesigned by
artists including  Andy Warhol ,  Jeff Koons ,  David Hockney ,  Roy Lichtenstein  and  Robert Rauschenberg . The free two-week show
(through Aug. 4) is at the Great Eastern Car Park (35 Great
Eastern Street, London EC2A 3ER).  The  closing ceremony  on Aug. 12 will include  George Michael . A show in Hyde Park is headlined by  Blur , New Order and
the Specials.  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on arts,  Richard Vines 
on London dining and  Mike Di Paola  on conservation.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 