-- McDonald’s Profit Trails Estimates on Slowing U.S. Sales
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-07-23T20:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/mcdonald-s-profit-trails-estimates-on-slowing-u-s-store-sales.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  reported second-
quarter profit that trailed analysts’ estimates amid slowing
U.S. same-store sales and said the restaurant chain may miss its
full-year operating income growth target. The shares fell.  McDonald’s  declined  2.9 percent to $88.94 at the close in
 New York , the biggest drop since June 1. McDonald’s has fallen
11 percent this year.  Net income  fell 4.5 percent to $1.35 billion, or $1.32 a
share, from $1.41 billion, or $1.35, a year earlier, the  Oak
Brook , Illinois-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts projected $1.38, the average of 26  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Don Thompson , who took the helm
earlier this month, is struggling to lure budget-conscious
Americans with a new extra-value menu. Sales at stores open at
least 13 months in the U.S. rose 3.6 percent, the slowest growth
in five quarters.  “They went hardcore on the value strategy and likely their
margins took a hit,” Peter Saleh, an analyst at Telsey Advisory
Group in New York, said today in an interview. McDonald’s has
had to promote less expensive food in  Germany ,  China  and the
U.S. to keep customers coming into stores, he said.  The stronger dollar hurt the value of sales from abroad,
reducing second-quarter profit by 7 cents a share, according to
the statement. McDonald’s gets more than 60 percent of its
 revenue  from outside the U.S.  Stronger Dollar  The  U.S. dollar  climbed to a two-year high today versus the
euro on concerns that  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening.  Operating income growth this year may be below the
projected target of a 6 percent to 7 percent gain, on a
constant-currency basis, Chief Financial Officer Peter Bensen
said today on a conference call. Currency fluctuations may hurt
full-year earnings per share by 21 cents to 23 cents, Bensen
said.  “Overall results reflected the slowing global economy,
persistent economic headwinds and the investments we’ve made to
enhance restaurant operations,” Thompson said in the statement.
July global comparable-store sales are expected to be lower than
those in the second quarter, he said.  Restaurant margin at company-operated stores narrowed to
18.2 percent globally in the quarter from 19 percent a year
earlier, according to a company filing.  Slowing Growth  There are “headwinds on both the top and bottom lines,”
Bensen said during an investor conference last month. McDonald’s
is facing government austerity programs in European nations,
higher commodity costs in the U.S. and slowing economic growth
in  Asia , he said.  Revenue rose less than 1 percent to $6.92 billion in the
quarter ended June 30. Analysts estimated $6.96 billion, on
average.  McDonald’s comparable-store sales advanced 3.7 percent
globally in the quarter, compared with an average estimate for a
gain of 2.9 percent, according to Consensus Metrix, a researcher
owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based Kaul Advisory Group. That marks
the slowest increase in 10 quarters.  Same-store sales increased 3.8 percent in Europe and 0.9
percent in Asia Pacific, the  Middle East  and  Africa , McDonald’s
said. Same-store sales are considered an important indicator of
growth because they include only older locations.  McDonald’s has more than 33,500 locations worldwide, of
which about 20 percent are company operated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  