-- McDonald’s Bought Commodities Before Rally, Cuts Cost Forecast
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-23T17:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/mcdonald-s-bought-commodities-before-rally-cuts-cost-forecast.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s
largest restaurant chain, said it bought grain and other
commodities before a rally in prices, allowing the company to
cut a forecast for some costs.  A U.S. “grocery basket” will be 3.5 percent to 4.5
percent higher this year, Peter J. Bensen, the chief financial
officer of  Oak Brook , Illinois-based McDonald’s, said today on a
conference call with analysts. That compared with the company’s
projection on April 20 for an increase of 4.5 percent to 5.5
percent.  The worst drought in 56 years has eroded prospects for
crops in the Midwest. Corn and soybean futures rose to all-time
highs today, increasing feed costs for livestock producers. The
U.S. is the top producer of both commodities. In March, the
retail price of ground beef rose to the highest since at least
1984, and grocers in April sold whole chickens at record highs
on average.  “Our supply-chain folks, our suppliers, our treasury folks
really spent a lot of time earlier this year looking at the
markets and did a great job in securing a lot of our grains and
other commodities at cost before they ran up related to the
recent drought,” Bensen said. “And so that’s why we are able
to lower our outlook for this year.”  About 55 percent of the contiguous U.S. was in moderate to
extreme drought at the end of June, the highest percentage since
1956, National Climatic Data Center figures show. From June 15
to July 20, corn futures surged 57 percent. McDonald’s bought
727 million pounds of chicken and 800 million pounds of beef in
the U.S. in 2010.  The company feels “pretty good” that the impact from the
drought “will be minimized on next year’s results,” Benson
said. McDonald’s has “taken a greater amount of coverage” on
commodities, he said without providing details.  Today, McDonald’s reported second-quarter profit that
trailed analysts’ estimates amid slowing U.S. same-store sales
and said the restaurant chain may miss its full-year target for
growth in operating income.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 