-- CFTC’s Chilton Sees Silver Probe Concluding This Year
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-07-23T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/cftc-s-chilton-sees-silver-probe-concluding-this-year.html
A four-year probe of potential price
manipulation in the silver market may be completed as early as
September, according to Bart Chilton, a member of the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  “I am hopeful and expect the silver investigation to
conclude in the not-too-distant future, hopefully in September
or October,” Chilton, a 52-year-old Democrat, said in an e-
mail. “It has already taken way too long.”  The enforcement division of the Washington-based agency,
the main U.S. overseer of derivatives markets, began pursuing
allegations of manipulation in the silver market in September
2008. Investigators have analyzed more than 100,000 documents
and interviewed dozens of witnesses, the CFTC said in a November
2011  statement .  Chilton, who didn’t say whether the probe has uncovered
evidence of manipulation, said previously that there had been
“repeated attempts” to influence prices.  “There have been fraudulent efforts to persuade and
deviously control that price,” he said at an October 2010
hearing in  Washington . “Any such violation of the law in this
regard should be prosecuted.”  Steve Adamske , a CFTC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the status of the investigation
sent outside of regular business hours.  ‘Numerous Letters’  The agency concluded in a May 2008  report , before starting
the investigation, that there was no evidence of manipulation in
the market between 2005 and 2007. The CFTC, in the preceding two
decades, had received “numerous letters, e-mails and phone
calls from silver investors” alleging that silver futures on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  had been manipulated downward,
according to the report.  The CFTC was granted broader powers to pursue such cases
under the Dodd-Frank Act. Commissioners last July completed
rules making it easier to prove fraud and manipulation in
markets for derivatives and commodities. The rules eased
requirements that enforcement lawyers demonstrate that
artificial prices were set and prove traders intentionally
manipulated markets. The new anti-manipulation rule requires the
agency only to show that traders acted recklessly.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  