-- China Shadow Bankers Go Online as Peer-to-Peer Sites Boom
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-24T07:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/china-shadow-bankers-go-online-as-peer-to-peer-sites-boom.html
Jack Qiu, spending evenings in front
of his laptop in the southern Chinese city of Guangzhou, is
earning the best returns of his life: 14.2 percent on an
annualized basis in just two months.  He’s doing it by lending money to strangers online. An
accountant by day, Qiu has turned out to be a better loan
manager by night than most banks. Only two investments out of
his 80,000  yuan  ($12,525) total, each worth 100 yuan, have gone
unpaid. Nonperforming loans at a Chinese lender, on average,
would be almost four times as much.  “I don’t care what the money is used for because that’s
beyond my control,” said the 30-year-old certified financial
planner who jumped into online lending in May by registering at
 Ppdai.com , one of China’s largest such sites. “For me, the key
is to identify those who have at least a willingness to honor
their debt, so I need to keep my eyes wide open.”  Peer-to-peer lending is taking off in China as traditional
methods of private lending among family and acquaintances, part
of the country’s unregulated $2.4 trillion shadow-banking
system, move online. More than 2,000 websites have been set up
nationwide since 2007,  China  National Radio reported in May.
Loans brokered online increased 300-fold to 6 billion yuan in
the first half of 2011, the latest figures available, from the
full year total in 2007, the  report  said.  ’Innovative Lending’  Akin to  LendingClub.com  or  Prosper.com  in the U.S., China’s
peer-to-peer lenders let individuals invest a minimum of 50 yuan
in projects ranging from small-business expansion to funding
newlyweds’ honeymoons for as much as 23 percent interest, the
highest rate allowed under Chinese law. While the returns are
higher than parking the money in bank accounts earning 3
percent, they’re dwarfed by some underground shadow-banking
investment yields that can go as high as 100 percent.  “This is an interesting and innovative lending platform
with a lot of goodwill,” said Liao Qiang, a Beijing-based
director for financial institutions at  Standard & Poor’s .  Existing outside of regulators’ jurisdiction, online
lending sites aren’t without risks. The China Banking Regulatory
Commission in September issued a  warning  about web-based
brokers, cautioning that their bad-loan ratio is “significantly
higher” than that of banks -- without specifying the figure --
and that they can cross the line into illegality such as fraud,
funding illegitimate businesses or money laundering.  A Beijing-based spokesman for the banking regulator said
peer-to-peer lending isn’t under its official purview.  “There is no discipline at all,” Liao said, calling it a
“short-lived fad” that won’t affect the role banks play in the
economy. “There’s no enforcement should borrowers default.”  Prosper Marketplace  Online peer-to-peer lending started in the U.K. in 2005 and
spread to the U.S.,  Germany  and elsewhere. Prosper Marketplace
Inc., the first such U.S. lender, reported a 179 percent
increase in volume in 2011 and has almost 1.4 million members
funding $369 million in loans.  Lending online became popular in China after a tightening
of  bank credit  in 2010 following two years of stimulus spending
to fight the global financial crisis. With total loan volume
less than $1 billion, it’s still a tiny part of the country’s
shadow-banking universe -- along with underground lending, off-
balance-sheet financing by banks and investments by trust firms
-- that policy makers led by Premier  Wen Jiabao  are trying to
bring under government oversight.  The total amount that circulates as loans among friends,
families and companies is $1.3 trillion, according to estimates
by research firm  IHS Global Insight Ltd. (IHS) , an amount equal to
last year’s U.S. budget deficit.  Microfinance Inspiration  The Ppdai site, which calls itself China’s first and
largest, was founded by former Microsoft Corp. engineer Zhang
Jun and three former classmates from  Shanghai  Jiaotong
University. Zhang said they found inspiration when Bangladeshi
economist  Muhammad Yunus  and his Grameen Bank won the Nobel
Peace Prize in 2006 for lifting millions out of poverty by
making small loans through what is known as microfinancing.  Reeling from a failed YouTube-like website, the friends
decided to pool their remaining savings of 200,000 yuan to
connect borrowers with investors via the Web. The catch: None of
the founders, including one who was a corporate lawyer at the
time, knew if it was legal.  “We went ahead because we couldn’t find any regulation
that specifically bans it,” Zhang, 35, said in an interview at
his Shanghai Ppdai Financial Information Services Co. office in
a shared space for startup companies at a high-tech park in
Shanghai’s Pudong district. “We knew the demand was there. So
was the supply.”  Loan Requests  Like San Francisco-based Prosper, Ppdai requires borrowers
to list basic personal information and details of their
financing needs. Investors review the requests and make
investments that meet their criteria. About 80 percent of the
total 400 million yuan of lending brokered by Ppdai since 2007
has gone to small businesses, Zhang said.  Only 3 percent of China’s 42 million small and medium-sized
firms are able to get loans from banks, according to an estimate
by Citic Securities Co., while 36.7 trillion yuan of  household
savings  are parked in banks. Half of that amount earns as little
as  0.35 percent  a year in checking accounts, with the remainder
earning a 3 percent savings rate, which the government lowered
from 3.5 percent in June.  A recent loan request by an online sportswear retailer in
 Hunan province  asked for 11,970 yuan to buy inventory for the
fall season, paying 20 percent interest. Another borrower in
Shandong province is seeking 50,000 yuan to purchase
manufacturing equipment, paying 18 percent.  Default Risk  Ppdai, which in Chinese is short for “lending through
auctions,” claims more than 1.1 million registered users. Loan
amounts start at 3,000 yuan and are capped at 500,000 yuan, with
lenders contributing a minimum of 50 yuan. The maximum  interest
rate  by law, 23 percent, can’t exceed four times the benchmark
lending rate, now 6 percent for  one-year loans . Credit cards
usually charge 18 percent.  “It’s fairly easy to get consumer loans and credit cards
from banks nowadays,” S&P’s Liao said. “If someone is
unqualified for that, he may very likely end up being a borrower
online and the default risk is extremely high.”  About 3.5 percent of Ppdai’s loans aren’t paid off on time,
Zhang said, while 1.2 percent have been overdue for at least 90
days, the definition of nonperforming at Chinese banks. That
compares with the 0.9 percent bad-loan ratio of the nation’s
commercial banks as of the end of March, according to data from
the banking regulator. The rate by investor Qiu of 0.25 percent
is considerably lower than Ppdai’s average.  Online Rescue  The default rate of  LendingClub Corp. , a U.S. peer-to-peer
lending site which issues consumer loans of as much as $35,000
for everything from home repair to exotic vacations, has been
below 3 percent since its inception in 2007, while at Prosper
the loan-loss rate is about 5 percent, according to the
companies’ websites.  One Chinese borrower, 29-year-old Xu Xiaolong, counts
herself a beneficiary after a lending website helped her family
survive a difficult period in May. Xu’s husband had a car
accident and needed 30,000 yuan to pay his medical bills.  Days before the accident, the couple had put 1 million
yuan, their entire savings plus some loans from relatives and
friends, into a nonrefundable investment. They bought 30-year
rights to eight acres of green-tea fields in  Fujian province .  Hongling Chuangtou Ecommerce Co. , which operates the
My089.com lending website from Shenzhen, increased Xu’s
borrowing limit after learning what happened. She was able to
raise all the money she requested in one day at an 18 percent
annual rate.  ‘Great Platform’  “It’s a great platform to resort to if you have urgent
needs,” Xu, who had been a borrower and lender previously, said
in a telephone interview. “I am truly thankful for it.”  Ppdai, which charges borrowers a fee of as much as 4
percent of their loans, began to break even early last year,
Zhang said. Almost 80 percent of the company’s monthly revenue
of 500,000 yuan goes to the salaries of its 40 employees, while
the rest is reinvested in the business, he said.  Renrendai Business Consulting (Beijing) Corp., which
operates renrendai.com, brokered about 130 million yuan of loans
online in the first half this year, an increase of more than 10
fold from a year earlier, according to its  earnings report 
posted last week. Borrowers are paying between 10.3 percent and
16.6 percent interest on loans with maturities of three months
to 24 months.  Credit Scoring  China’s lack of a credit-scoring system makes risk
management difficult for peer-to-peer lending, giving potential
lenders no way to gauge borrowers’ creditworthiness.  For most online platforms in China, risk-control measures
include checking whether the personal identification or business
license of the borrower has been photo-shopped. Those who have
defaulted have their names and contact numbers disclosed on the
front page of the website.  “Coming from a technology background, it took us a while
to realize that risk management is key to the business,” Zhang
said. “But we can do just enough to reduce default and prevent
fraud, so we urge investors again and again not to put all their
eggs in one basket.”  ‘Ponzi Scheme’  Some peer-to-peer sites have shut down. Hahadai.com, a
Shanghai-based online loan broker with almost 100,000 registered
users, closed in July 2011, about 18 months after it started,
because the company didn’t have enough capital, the Economic
Observer  reported .  Taojindai.com, which went live on June 3, became
inaccessible five days later, with more than 1 million yuan in
investments from at least 80 users missing, the China Business
News  reported  last month, calling it the first “ Ponzi scheme ”
in the country’s peer-to-peer lending business.  “Unlike banks, these middlemen are unable to collect
information on borrowers and manage loans afterwards,” the
regulator warned in September. “In the event that illegal
activities such as malicious fraud or even  money laundering 
occur, it will endanger the entire society.”  The same concerns have haunted the sites’ U.S.
counterparts. Prosper in November 2008 stopped all new lending
after the  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission  issued a
cease-and-desist letter characterizing the website as a seller
of investments, a label Prosper had resisted by arguing it was a
marketplace matching lenders and borrowers.  Five months later, California regulators  allowed  the
company to resume raising money in the state and lending it out
under a system that lets borrowers and lenders use bids to set
the interest rates on loans.  Suicides, Bankruptcies  China’s policy makers are trying to regulate the excesses
of private lending after a spate of suicides and bankruptcies
around the country led to defaults, lawsuits and protests.  “Informal lending through various forms has been an
integral part of China’s financial system because not all of its
functions can be replaced by banks,” said He Wenguang, an
economics professor at China Agricultural University in Beijing,
whose research focuses on rural and microfinancing. “It will
continue to exist with or without government interference.”  Beyond Lending  CreditEase, established as a peer-to-peer lending site in
2006, has now become a provider of wealth-management services,
credit ratings and rural financing, drawing investment from
venture-capital firm IDG Capital Partners and Morgan Stanley’s
Asia fund. The company doesn’t have the licenses required by the
banking and securities regulator for these services.  “We are a company that provides all types of services,
including financial planning,” said Tang Ning, founder and CEO
of CreditEase. “We don’t consider ourselves simply a lender.”  Tang, who went to  Bangladesh  to study microfinance under
Yunus, said Beijing-based CreditEase is registered as a service
company, not a lending organization.  To ensure that it could continue to grow in the absence of
clear regulation, Ppdai sought an operating license as a
provider of “financial-information services,” Zhang said.
After numerous visits by officials from the central bank and
city government, Ppdai was granted the license in May by
Shanghai’s Administration for Industry & Commerce, he said.  Providing financial information isn’t what peer-to-peer
lending is about, raising more questions from users such as Qiu.  “I am still not sure whether my investment is legal or
not,” said Qiu, whose loans included 500 yuan for a borrower’s
apartment renovation and 400 yuan to a paint seller in
Chongqing. “I can manage default risks by screening borrowers,
but there is nothing I can do if the whole website turns out to
be a scam. So finally, who’s the police on this place if that
really happens?”  --Luo Jun. Editors: Sheridan Prasso, Robert Friedman  To contact Bloomberg News staff of this story:
Luo Jun in Shanghai at 
 jluo6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  