-- China Plans to Put Garrison on Disputed South China Sea Island
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-07-23T04:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/china-plans-to-put-garrison-on-disputed-south-china-sea-island.html
China  will establish a military
garrison on a disputed island in the  South China Sea , part of an
increased assertiveness in the resource-rich waters that’s
straining ties with nations in the region and the U.S.  The garrison for the new city of Sansha was approved as
1,100 Chinese residents elected a legislature to oversee the
area, the Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday. Sansha is on
the  Paracel Islands , which are also claimed by Vietnam.  The move adds to recent efforts by China, the  Philippines ,
Vietnam, Taiwan and Brunei to affirm command over disputed
islands in the waters. While it may rile other claimants in the
South China Sea, China sets up military garrisons in all its
administrative districts, according to Arthur Ding, a research
fellow at the Institute of International Relations in  Taiwan .  “In order to show its seriousness, just like any other
administrative area, China set up a military unit there,” Ding
said in a phone interview. “It has nothing to do with combat
preparation.”  About 150 Vietnamese protesters marched through  Hanoi 
yesterday to decry China’s claims over the Spratly and Paracel
islands. The demonstrators, including parents with toddlers and
seniors, defied police requests to disperse and circumvented
barricades aimed at preventing access to a square where the
Chinese embassy is located.  The Xinhua report didn’t provide details on what kind of
military personnel or hardware would be stationed on Sansha.  Prefectural City  China welcomed a statement by the Association of Southeast
Asians last week calling for self-restraint in resolving
disputes in the waters. The 10-member bloc had failed to issue a
communique after a meeting of foreign ministers this month for
the first time in its 45-year history because members differed
over wording that may have criticized China’s actions.  Asean’s eventual statement was “in line” with China’s
policies, the official Xinhua News Agency said in a commentary
published July 21.  In June, China’s State Council approved the establishment
of the prefecture-level city to administer the Paracel and
Spratly Islands.  Vietnam , the Philippines and Malaysia have “de
facto military occupation and administration” over most of the
disputed islands in the South China Sea, parts of which are also
claimed by Taiwan and Brunei, according to the  International
Crisis Group .  Sansha will be based on Yongxing, the largest island in the
Paracels with an area of 2.1 square kilometers (0.8 square
miles). The chain is several hundred kilometers southeast of
 Hainan . China ousted Vietnam from the 30 islets and reefs that
comprise the Paracels in a  1974 battle  in which 71 soldiers were
killed.  Earlier this month, China rebuffed U.S. calls to quickly
complete a code of conduct for the seas as Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  warned more clashes are likely without a region-
wide deal. Asean failed to reach consensus on handling disputes
in the South China Sea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  