-- China’s Iran Oil Imports Surpass 2011 Average Before Embargo
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-23T08:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/china-s-june-imports-of-iranian-crude-drop-2-1-from-last-year.html
China  bought more crude from  Iran  in
June than it did on average last year before sanctions against
the  Persian Gulf  nation imposed by the European Union that went
into force July 1.  Iranian oil shipments rose 17 percent from May to 2.6
million metric tons, or about 635,000 barrels a day, according
to Bloomberg calculations from data e-mailed by the Beijing-
based General Administration of Customs today. China bought 2.3
million tons of crude from Iran  on average  each month, or about
557,000 barrels each day, last year.  China, the Islamic nation’s biggest crude customer, calls
its purchases “ completely justified  and legitimate.” The U.S.
and EU set new rules on the trade that’s meant to curb elements
of Iran’s atomic program they say could support nuclear weapons.
June’s imports reached the highest in 11 months and was the
third-straight month of expansion, after China cut back buying
in the first quarter while negotiating a payment dispute with
Iran’s national oil company.  “Many Chinese refineries are designed to process only
Iranian crudes and not other grades,”  Gordon Kwan , the Hong
Kong-based head of regional energy research at Mirae Asset
Securities, said by e-mail today. “Even if China wants to
follow the EU sanctions, it will take at least three to six
months or early 2013 before we see any meaningful reductions.”  Iran’s share of China’s overseas purchases rose for a
fourth month, according to Bloomberg calculations based on the
customs data. Crude from the country accounted for 12 percent of
total imports in June, up from 9 percent in May and the highest
since October.  Supply Interruption  China won a 180-day exemption from U.S. financial sanctions
for having significantly reduced its Iranian purchases,
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said June 28.  Under the U.S. law enacted Dec. 31, financial institutions
in nations that don’t win exemptions may be cut off from the
U.S. system if they settle oil trades with Iran’s central bank.
The EU sanctions that went into effect July 1 include a ban on
insurance for ships carrying Iranian cargoes that affects 95
percent of the world’s tankers.  “China is also worried about a potential oil supply
interruption in the Persian Gulf later on this year if war
erupts in the region,” Kwan said. “China is taking advantage
of the recent oil price decline in June to stockpile more
strategic reserves,” he said.  Choke Point  Iran warned it can strike any target in the  Strait of
Hormuz  and the Gulf and will soon equip ships with missiles
capable of firing more than 300 kilometers (186 miles), the
state-run Mehr news agency reported June 29, citing a commander
of the Islamic Revolutionary Guards Corps. Tankers carrying
about a fifth of globally traded oil exit the Gulf though the
Hormuz choke point.  Iran was China’s third-biggest crude supplier last month,
after  Saudi Arabia  and  Angola . Saudi shipments totaled 4.91
million tons, while those from Angola were 3.76 million,
according to customs data. Russia was fourth at 2 million.  Iranian cargoes cost $108.10 a barrel on average in June,
compared with Saudi supplies at $109.74. Angolan shipments cost
$115.06, Russian crude $112.66 and Kazakh deliveries $112.28,
the Chinese customs data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net ;
 Jing Yang  in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  