-- China Seen Cutting U.S. Corn Imports on Higher Prices
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-23T11:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/china-seen-cutting-u-s-corn-imports-on-higher-prices-1-.html
China , the world’s second-biggest
corn user, may import fewer shipments from the U.S. than
forecast due to rising costs since the worst drought in decades
hit the top grower, a state-owned researcher in the Asian
country said.  Imports in the year beginning Oct. 1 may total 3 million
metric tons, compared with 5 million tons projected by the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture , the China National Grain & Oils
Information Center said in an e-mailed report today. The center
forecast shipments of 6 million tons on July 11.  Imports from top exporter U.S., based on the Chicago Board
of Trade benchmark, to be shipped early next year will cost
about 3,000  yuan  ($470) per ton on arriving at Chinese ports
after all costs, according to the center. That’s about 450 yuan
more than the domestic price, “creating barriers for imports,”
according to the report.  “China only imported corn when there were profit
margins,” said Dalian-based Feng Lichen, general manager at
Yigu Information Consulting, which runs the country’s largest
information website by membership on the commodity. “Domestic
corn prices will rise to match costs of U.S. supply before China
considers imports,” he said.  Without the imports, there’s increasing “pressure for the
domestic harvest to gain” to make up for the projected
shortfall, and feed wheat consumption may rise, the grain center
said in the report.  There will still be growth in corn demand which won’t be
met by production this year, Daron Hoffman, an analyst at
Rabobank International, said from  Shanghai . “There is still
room in the market for imports to grow over and above” this
year’s shipments, he said.  Chinese imports may rise to 8 million tons in 2012-13,
Rabobank analyst Jean Yves Chow said July 12. Shipments in the
year ending Sept. 30, may be 5 million tons, according to USDA.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  