-- Christie Signs Solar Bill Increasing N.J. Energy Requirement
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-07-23T16:19:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/christie-signs-solar-bill-increasing-n-j-energy-requirement-1-.html
New Jersey utilities will be
required to buy more solar energy under legislation signed today
by Governor  Chris Christie .  Utilities including Public Service Electric & Gas and
Jersey Central Power & Light will need to get 2.05 percent of
their electricity from solar projects in 2014, up from less than
0.5 percent now.  New Jersey developers added 174 megawatts of photovoltaic
panels in the first quarter, surpassing  California  as the
largest solar state with 34 percent of all U.S. installations,
according to the Solar Energy Industries Association. The
legislation will spur additional solar development, Christie
said at a press conference in Trenton today.  “Renewable energy not only helps meet our goals of
increasing sustainability and protecting the environment, but
can be an engine for economic growth,” he said in an e-mailed
statement. The law “will help us remain a national leader in
the solar-energy industry.”  Solar plants in  New Jersey  earn renewable-energy credits
for each megawatt-hour they produce that utilities must buy.
That incentive helped drive up installations in the state, and
the boom led to an oversupply of credits that threatened to
stall new development.  Falling Prices  Prices for the credits sank to less than $100 a megawatt-
hour this year from more than $500 a year ago because installed
plants were producing twice the amount that utilities needed,
according to Flett Exchange LLC, an environmental broker.  The state’s solar requirement will increase to 4.1 percent
by 2028. The penalty for utilities that fail to meet the
increasing percentage will be $339 for each megawatt-hour short
of the goal in 2014, declining annually to $239 a megawatt-hour
in 2028. Reducing the penalty will save utility customers about
$1.1 billion over the next 15 years, according to the statement.  JCP&L is a unit of Akron, Ohio-based  FirstEnergy Corp. (FE)  and
PSE&G is owned by Newark, New Jersey-based  Public Service
Enterprise Group Inc. (PEG)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  