-- Cisco Plans to Eliminate 1,300 Jobs in Drive to Cut Costs
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/cisco-says-it-s-cutting-1-300-jobs-in-drive-to-reduce-costs.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of computer-networking equipment, plans to eliminate about
1,300 jobs, or 2 percent of the workforce, as Europe’s debt
crisis and sluggish corporate spending threaten sales.  The cuts are part of a “continuous process of simplifying
the company, as well as assessing the economic environment in
certain parts of the world,”  San Jose , California-based Cisco
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Cisco shares have tumbled 11 percent this year as Chief
Executive Officer  John Chambers  works to reverse a slowdown in
sales growth and stem market-share losses. In May, Chambers
cited Europe’s debt crisis, weak  government spending  and a drop
in orders from large corporate customers for a fourth-quarter
profit forecast that was below analysts’ estimates. More cuts
may be necessary if profitability doesn’t improve, said  Erik Suppiger , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC.  “I don’t think 1,300 by itself is going to make a dramatic
difference,” Suppiger said in an interview. “Until they start
generating healthier top-line growth or reverse some of the
gross-margin pressures that they’ve seen, I think they’re going
to have to start very aggressively focusing on their operational
efficiencies.”  The shares fell 1.8 percent to $16.07 at yesterday’s close
in New York.  Earlier Cuts  The latest cuts follow Chambers’s decision last year to
eliminate about 6,500 jobs, or 9 percent of the full-time
workforce, to help trim $1 billion in annual costs and step up
profit growth. Chambers also shuttered the Flip video-camera
unit, eliminated a council-based management structure that
slowed decision-making, and reduced prices, aiming to refocus
the company and gain ground against rivals such as  Juniper
Networks Inc. (JNPR)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   In May, Cisco reported a 1 percent decline in orders from
large corporate customers in the fiscal third quarter. Chambers
said spending by those customers got “a little bit tougher,”
and the company was facing a “hesitant spending environment.”  “There are areas of the macroeconomic environment we
cannot control,” he said at the time.  Cisco is scheduled to report results for the fourth
quarter, which ends in July, on Aug. 15. Profit before some
costs was forecast to be 44 cents to 46 cents a share, the
company said in May. Revenue was projected to rise 2 percent to
5 percent from a year earlier, indicating a range of $11.4
billion to $11.8 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  