-- Citigroup, Commonwealth Bank Received Australia Data Early
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-07-23T12:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/citigroup-commonwealth-bank-received-australia-data-early.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Commonwealth Bank
of Australia (CBA)  received Australian retail sales data for March
about 18 minutes before the general public because of a mix-up
at the country’s statistics bureau, documents showed.  Spreadsheets e-mailed prior to the 11:30 a.m. scheduled
release May 7 “contained seasonally adjusted data and
sufficient information from which the seasonally adjusted and
volume movements can be derived,” according to statistics
bureau e-mails and other documents Bloomberg News obtained under
the Freedom of Information Act. The documents revealed that
there were six recipients, including Citigroup and Commonwealth
Bank’s brokerage division, called CommSec.  An  Australian  Bureau of Statistics employee sent the data
to the companies at about 11:12 a.m., according to the documents
released today. Internal correspondence indicated that the
agency, after recognizing the breach, sought to gauge any market
reaction prior to the official release.  The early release covered retail sales for March that
showed a gain of 0.9 percent, or four times greater than the
median forecast of economists surveyed. The currency rose just
after the official release at 11:30 a.m.  “There was a slight move in the Australian dollar at 11:15
a.m. but it fell back prior to the release of the data at 11:30
a.m.,”  Paul Williams , regional director in New South Wales for
the bureau, said in an e-mail to colleagues. The release “does
not appear to have moved the stock market,” he said.  ‘Full Review’  CommSec acknowledged receipt of the e-mail at 11:27 a.m.,
Williams wrote in his e-mail. The department “will undertake a
full review of the circumstances that lead to the early release
of the data with the view of avoiding any future incidents of
this nature,” he wrote.  Steve Batten, a Sydney-based spokesman for Commonwealth
Bank, said: “We were aware that it was issued earlier than it
should’ve been and as a result we did nothing with the
information until the normal release time of 11:30, which we
also communicated to the ABS.”  Judy Hitchen, a spokeswoman for Citigroup in Sydney,
confirmed that the New York-based bank received the data and
didn’t act on the information.  Strong or weak data frequently drives rises and falls in
the nation’s currency, the world’s fifth-most traded.  Australian Statistician Brian Pink issued a press release
May 7 announcing the early release, pledging “a full review of
the circumstances leading up to the release to understand why it
happened and to prevent it from happening again.”  Bruce Hockman, head of the macroeconomics statistics
division at the bureau, said in an interview today that the
review is still being finalized and will likely lead to changes
in the issuance of “special data requests.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  