-- Cnooc Studies History to Plot Nexen Strategy
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2012-07-24T17:16:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/cnooc-studies-history-to-plot-nexen-strategy.html
Executives at  China ’s state-
controlled oil producer Cnooc Ltd., plotting their nation’s
largest foreign takeover, have been studying history for lessons
from two dramatic failed mergers, said people with knowledge of
the effort.  Cnooc executives and their advisers, who announced a
planned $15.1 billion takeover of  Canada ’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  yesterday,
are seeking to avoid the missteps that doomed  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP) ’s $40 billion offer for  Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. 
in 2010 and Cnooc’s $19 billion bid for California-based Unocal
Corp. in 2005. Both collapsed amid opposition from the targets’
executives as well as government leaders.  Those lessons encouraged Cnooc, led by Chairman Wang Yilin,
to pledge to Nexen executives during negotiations never to
pursue a hostile offer, said one of the people, who spoke on
condition of anonymity because the talks were private. And it
prompted Cnooc and Nexen to phone Canadian political leaders in
a weekend blitz, including those in the western provinces of
 Alberta  and British Columbia where Nexen operates, this person
said.  “The Chinese have probably been courting the government
for months,” said  David Taylor , who helps run the IA Clarington
Focused Canadian Equity Class Fund in Toronto and owns Nexen
shares. “BHP was so arrogant, they didn’t court the government
and probably didn’t let them know until the day they made the
bid.”  Long Lake  Cnooc’s offer for Calgary-based Nexen would be the largest
foreign takeover of a Canadian energy company, and the fourth-
biggest overall, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nexen, formed in 1971 as a unit of Occidental Petroleum
Corp., has been struggling with setbacks in its Long Lake oil
sands project in Canada and its operations in the  North Sea . The
company hired Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Canada
last year to solicit potential buyers, said people with
knowledge of that decision.  Cnooc was among the parties contacted during that so-called
strategic review, and the Chinese company declined, the people
said. By December, Nexen Chief Executive Officer Marvin Romanow
said that the review had ended and the board decided to remain
independent and focus on improving the Long Lake operation.  Earlier this year, Cnooc executives changed course and the
companies started discussing a deal, said people with knowledge
of the matter. At that point, Cnooc was already a partner with
Nexen on its biggest and most challenging project. Cnooc in
November bought Opti Canada Inc., a bankrupt producer whose
biggest asset was a 35 percent stake in the Long Lake project,
for $2.4 billion.  Blocked Potash  Cnooc studied BHP’s failure to win Canadian approval to buy
Potash in a hostile offer. Under the Investment Canada Act, the
government can block takeovers unless they provide a “net
benefit” to the nation. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s
Conservative government blocked BHP in 2010, amid opposition to
the deal from Saskatchewan officials and Potash executives. It
was only the second transaction in 25 years to be rejected.  Another state-owned Chinese company, the fertilizer trader
 Sinochem Group , considered a rival bid for Potash in partnership
with Canadian pension funds, people with knowledge of those
talks said in 2010. An offer was never tabled.  Cnooc’s concessions on the Nexen bid include a Calgary
headquarters for its North American operations, and the
preservation of jobs, similar to what BHP offered. Cnooc is also
promising to list its shares on the Toronto Stock Exchange --
something BHP offered only after announcing its offer and
starting negotiations with the government. Cnooc’s bid is backed
by Nexen’s management, something BHP never got from Potash.  Canada Requirements  Nexen and CNOOC made “initial phone calls” to Canadian
government officials in Ottawa, CEO Li Fanrong said on a
conference call yesterday.  “We will comply with Canadian government requirements,”
Li said.  These concessions increase the chances of the deal winning
approval by the Canadian government, Lysle Brinker, director of
energy equity research at IHS Herold, said by telephone from
Cape Elizabeth,  Maine .  “Cnooc probably wouldn’t have gone ahead with this if they
didn’t have some pretty high confidence they would receive
approval,” Brinker said.  The sale of Nexen is also less sensitive than Potash Corp.,
the largest fertilizer producer in the world by market value,
and a key employer in the agricultural-based economy of
Saskatchewan.  Nexen Rank  By contrast, Nexen ranks sixth among Canadian oil
producers, in an Alberta-based  energy industry  that’s already
attracted about $53 billion in Chinese investment in the past
decade, including Cnooc’s investments in Opti and  MEG Energy
Corp. (MEG)  Canada accounts for only 28 percent of Nexen’s output,
which includes operations in the  Gulf of Mexico  and North Sea.  While the bid for Nexen may become a “political
football,” it will be “hard to block this deal on national
interest grounds,” Sam La Bell, an analyst with Veritas
Investment Research Co., said by phone.  “This isn’t a Potash; it’s not on the same order as
Potash, where there’s one province that absolutely doesn’t want
the deal done,” La Bell said.  Alberta Energy Minister Ken Hughes said the Cnooc bid is
“further evidence of the vital importance of Alberta’s oil
sands to meet global energy demand,” according to a statement.  The Nexen takeover comes as Canadian companies prepare to
build new pipelines for transporting Canadian  fossil fuel  to
 Asia  in an effort to reduce its dependency on the U.S. market,
which has depressed prices for crude produced in Alberta’s oil
sands and the Bakken in Saskatchewan.  Ottawa Lobbyist  Cnooc has hired Michael Coates, a lobbyist with Hill +
Knowlton Strategies Canada, to represent the company in its
dealings with the federal government, according to public
lobbying records.  Coates, who helped prepare Harper for debates in the 2004,
2006 and 2008 election campaigns, was retained to lobby the
government on environmental reviews of energy projects,
according to the records. He lobbied several senior government
officials near the end of March, including Industry Canada
deputy minister Richard Dicerni, Industry Minister Christian
Paradis’ policy adviser Bruce Winchester, Natural Resources
Canada deputy minister Serge Dupont and Trade deputy minister
Louis Levesque.  Paradis said today his government’s review of Cnooc’s
proposed agreement to buy Nexen has begun. Speaking at an event
in  Montreal , Paradis said the deal must be compliant with
Canada’s foreign-investment law. The parties involved need to do
their “homework,” he said.  45 Days  Under Canadian law, Paradis has 45 days to make a decision
on the merger, and can extend that deadline by another 30 days
if more information is needed.  Politics derailed Cnooc’s bid for Unocal. After the El
Segundo, California-based company signed a deal to be sold to
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  in 2005, Cnooc, then led by Chairman Fu Chengyu,
made a hostile offer at a higher price. U.S. lawmakers pilloried
the offer and proposed legislation to block it, and Unocal
executives stuck with Chevron, citing uncertainty about
government approval. Cnooc eventually dropped its bid.  “In 2005, there was more anxiety about Chinese  oil
companies ,” said Erica Downs, a fellow at the John L. Thornton
China Center at the  Brookings Institution . “Since then, those
companies have been doing things quietly and gradually and have
been trying to structure their deals so they won’t attract
additional scrutiny.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  