-- Cnooc Buys Nexen for in China’s Top Overseas Acquisition
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-07-23T22:16:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/cnooc-to-buy-canada-s-nexen-for-15-1-billion-to-expand-overseas.html
Cnooc Ltd. (883)  agreed to pay $15.1
billion in cash to acquire Canada’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  in the biggest
overseas takeover by a Chinese company.  China ’s largest offshore oil and natural-gas explorer is
paying $27.50 for each common share, a premium of 61 percent to
Calgary-based Nexen’s  closing price  on July 20, according to its
statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday. Nexen’s
board recommended the deal to its shareholders.  “Cnooc is one of the most sensible buyers for Nexen,”
Andrew Potter, an analyst at the Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce, wrote in a note to investors. “The question is
whether or not regulators will allow it.”  Nexen’s oil and gas assets include production platforms in
the  North Sea , the  Gulf of Mexico  and in  Nigeria , as well as
oil-sands reserves at Long Lake,  Alberta , where it already
produces crude in a joint venture with Cnooc. Those assets
produced 207,000 barrels a day in the second quarter, which
would boost the Chinese company’s output by about 20 percent.
About 28 percent of Nexen’s current production is in Canada.  “Given Nexen’s strong international diversity, we believe
it would be difficult for regulators to oppose the transaction
on this front,” Potter said.  Nexen  rose  52 percent to C$26.35 ($25.90) at the close in
Toronto yesterday. Cnooc’s American depositary receipts, which
represent 100 ordinary shares, fell 4.3 percent to $193.96 in
 New York  the same day.  Second Deal  Nexen is one of two major Chinese energy acquisitions
announced yesterday. China Petrochemical Corp. agreed to spend
$1.5 billion for a 49 percent stake in Calgary-based  Talisman
Energy Inc. (TLM) ’s U.K. unit after spending $2.2 billion last year to
buy Daylight Energy Ltd., also of Calgary.  The Nexen takeover comes as Canadian companies prepare to
build new pipelines for transporting Canadian  fossil fuel  to
 Asia  in an effort to reduce its dependence on the U.S. market,
which has depressed prices for crude produced in Alberta’s oil
sands and the Bakken in Saskatchewan.  “The political context in Canada is very good at the
moment,” said  Wenran Jiang , the Mactaggart Research Chair of
the China Institute at the University of Alberta who advised the
Alberta government on Chinese investment. “The Chinese have
been careful to step up their involvement in Canada slowly. This
isn’t coming out of nowhere.”  The transaction follows the Chinese company’s takeover of
Nexen’s partner Opti Canada Inc. last year and the $19 billion
bid for Unocal Corp. in 2005, which was blocked by political
opposition in the U.S.  Transaction Details  Cnooc will offer to buy Nexen’s preferred shares and the
Canadian company’s debt of $4.3 billion will remain in place,
according to the statement. Beijing-based Cnooc will pay for the
acquisition using existing cash funds and external financing.
The agreement includes a breakup fee of $425 million if the deal
is terminated under certain circumstances.  Nexen has been searching for a new CEO since Marvin Romanow
stepped down in January amid a slumping share price and missed
production targets. Nexen’s market value had plunged 60 percent
before yesterday from a high of C$43.45 in June 2008 as prices
fell for natural gas, which accounts for about 20 percent of
output. Production growth also slowed more than the company
expected because of setbacks at projects in  Canada ’s oil sands
and in the North Sea.  “The Chinese have shown that they’re good at buying assets
that have long-term value,” said Jennifer Stevenson, who helps
oversee about C$5 billion in assets at Dynamic Funds in Calgary
and doesn’t own Nexen shares. “This deal signifies that people
who understand the value of oil and gas assets are willing to
pay for them.”  Barrel Value  Cnooc will add 900 million barrels of oil equivalent
reserves at $19.94 per barrel through the deal, according to a
document posted to the company’s website. Cnooc plans to boost
output by as much as 2.7 percent this year to the equivalent of
as much as 930,000 barrels of oil a day.  “Cnooc did a nice job in adding oil reserves at less than
$20 a barrel,” said Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based energy analyst at
UOB-Kay Hian Ltd. “It’s really a good time to buy assets while
crude prices are low and energy firms shed values in stock
markets.”  Calgary will become one of Cnooc’s international
headquarters and the operations hub for overseeing an additional
$8 billion in assets in North and Central America. The Chinese
company will also list its shares on the Toronto exchange, it
said in the statement.  “This agreement diversifies our reserve base by adding to
our presence in Canada while providing high quality assets,”
Cnooc Chief Executive Officer Li Fanrong said yesterday on a
conference call with reporters. “We are in Canada to invest.”  Canadian Appeal  Canada has become a fertile area for Chinese oil producers
seeking to add oil and gas reserves to meet demand in the
world’s largest energy-consuming country. After yesterday’s
deal, Chinese companies will have spent about $49 billion on
buying Canadian fields and oil companies, according to Bloomberg
data. In contrast, they’ve laid down just $3.5 billion in U.S.
acquisitions.  The deal will cement Cnooc’s position in Canada’s oil sands
after last year’s $2.4 billion purchase of Opti Canada. When the
transaction closes, Cnooc will own all of Long Lake, which plans
to produce 72,000 barrels a day using steam to melt the tar-like
oil out of the sands.  The Canadian government reviews any foreign takeover worth
more than C$330 million and is in the process of raising that
threshold to an enterprise value of at least C$1 billion over
the next four years, Industry Minister Christian Paradis said in
May.  Reassuring Foreigners  Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  is seeking to assure foreign
companies the country is open to investment amid criticism the
takeover review system is unpredictable. Harper in 2010 rejected
a $40 billion hostile takeover bid for Potash Corp. of
Saskatchewan Inc. by BHP Billiton Ltd., saying it didn’t provide
a net benefit to the country. It was only the second rejection
of a foreign takeover in Canada in 25 years.  Bank of Montreal and Citigroup Inc. provided financial
advice to Cnooc, while Stikeman Elliott LLP and Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP acted as legal counsel. Nexen’s financial advisers
are Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Royal Bank of Canada, while its
legal advisers are Blake Cassels & Graydon LLP and Paul Weiss
Rifkind Wharton and Garrison LLP. Richard A. Shaw Professional
Corp. and Burnet, Duckworth & Palmer LLP also served as legal
advisers to Nexen’s board.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in  Hong Kong  at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  