-- Colombia Peso Falls as Factory, Retail Data Buoy Rate-Cut Wagers
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   J e n k i n s
-- 2012-07-23T15:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/colombia-peso-falls-as-factory-retail-data-buoy-rate-cut-wagers.html
Colombia ’s peso fell the most in a
month as waning industrial production and retail sales buoyed
speculation the central bank may cut rates.  The peso fell 0.6 percent to 1,791.50 per dollar at 10:09
a.m. in Bogota after falling as much as 0.9 percent, the biggest
intraday drop since June 25. The peso has rallied 8.2 percent
this year, the best performance among all currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Colombia’s markets were closed July 20.  Industrial output fell for a third straight month in May on
an annual basis and retail sales rose 0.9 percent, missing the
3.5 percent median estimate among economists surveyed by
Bloomberg, the national statistics agency said July 19.  “After the latest economic data the market may be looking
for a rate cut in the coming months,” said Daniel Velandia, the
head analyst at Correval SA brokerage in Bogota. “There’s also
the possibility the bank may step up dollar purchases, and
meanwhile there’s a difficult international context especially
as oil prices drop.”  The central bank should consider cutting  interest rates 
after recent data show the economy losing speed, President  Juan
Manuel Santos  said in a July 20 speech.  “I have asked the central bank to study a cut in interest
rates, and evaluate a more aggressive purchase of dollars to
increase our international reserves,” Santos said. “This will
also help us confront the phenomenon of revaluation.”  Borrowing Costs  The central bank held the  overnight lending rate  at 5.25
percent for a fourth straight month on June 29. Policy makers
will lower the target to 5 percent at the July 27 meeting,
according to six of 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The
rest said the benchmark will hold steady.  Oil, the nation’s biggest export, plunged on concern that
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis is deepening and as a Chinese
central-bank adviser said the country’s economic expansion may
slow further. Crude oil for September delivery fell 3 percent to
$89.06 a barrel in  New York .  The yield on benchmark 10 percent peso-denominated debt due
in July 2024 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point,
to 6.76 percent according to the central bank. The price
increased 0.233 centavo to 126.031 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Jenkins in Bogota at 
 cjenkins28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  