-- Workers’ Strike Halts Rail Service for Glencore, Drummond
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-07-23T19:50:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/colombia-railway-workers-strike-halts-coal-mine-service-1-.html
A union at  Colombia ’s largest coal
railway went on strike over wages, halting service to mines
owned by units of Glencore International Plc, Drummond Co. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Workers at  Ferrocarriles del Norte de Colombia SA , known as
Fenoco, don’t have negotiations scheduled with management, union
leader Felix Herrera said today in a telephone interview from
northern Colombia.  “The trains are halted,” Herrera said. “Management
hasn’t called us for talks.”  Fenoco President Peter Burrowes said by telephone that the
company is seeking to resume talks to ensure a “quick” end to
the walkout that halted operations.  The union is the second in less than a week to go on strike
near coal mines in northern Colombia,  South America ’s largest
coal supplier. Workers at a mine owned by  Glencore
International’s (GLEN)  Prodeco Group went on strike on July 19, halting
production to garner higher pay as the nation’s coal output
rises.  The Fenoco railway will carry as much as 50 million tons of
coal this year from mines including Glencore’s La Jagua and
Calenturitas mines, and operations owned by Birmingham, Alabama-
based Drummond, Burrowes said in a July 16 phone interview.  Drummond, in an e-mailed response to questions, said it is
evaluating the situation and declined to comment further.  Goldman Investment  Goldman Sach’s Colombian Natural Resources SAS unit didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. The unit bought an 8.4
percent stake in Fenoco, a coal mine and deposit, and port
facilities in Colombia as part of a $407 million acquisition
this year from  Vale SA. (VALE3)   At the Prodeco Group’s La Jagua mine, workers who last week
set up tents inside the complex don’t have talks planned today
with management, Ricardo Machado, a union leader, said in a
telephone interview from the mine.  La Jagua and the nearby Calenturitas mine produce 14.5
million metric tons of coal annually, according to Glencore’s
website.  Coal output in Colombia will rise to as much as 100 million
tons this year from almost 86 million tons last year, according
to a forecast by the National Federation of Coal Producers.
Colombia primarily produces thermal coal at northern mines and
exports metallurgical coal used for steel production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  