-- Commercial-Mortgage Bonds Gain as Investors Succumb to Low Rates
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d
-- 2012-07-23T18:41:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/commercial-mortgage-bonds-gain-as-investors-succumb-to-low-rates.html
Demand for commercial-mortgage bonds
surged this month as the  Federal Reserve ’s efforts to revive the
economy push investors toward riskier debt, sending relative
yields to the lowest in more than four years.  Top-ranked securities tied to everything from skyscrapers
to mobile-home parks sold before the credit crisis shuttered the
market in 2008 are paying holders 172 basis points more than
Treasuries, down from 186 basis points on June 29, according to
a Barclays Plc index. That is the lowest spread since at least
January 2008, the index data show.  Buyers are gravitating toward the bonds with the Fed
keeping  interest rates  at record lows into a fourth year amid
flagging U.S. growth and  Europe ’s spreading debt crisis.
Commercial-mortgage bonds are benefiting as investors come to
terms with a more prolonged period of low returns, according to
Amherst Securities Group LP.  “It dawned upon the market that the 10-year Treasury could
remain at or near 1.5 percent well into 2014,” wrote the
analysts led by Darrell Wheeler. The benchmark Treasury  yield 
slid to a new record, touching 1.3960 percent today.  Demand for newly issued debt is also recovering after
faltering in May and June. Wells Fargo & Co. and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc last week issued top-ranked securities
maturing in about 10 years yielding 120 basis points more than
the benchmark swap rate, the narrowest spread since April,
according to Deutsche Bank AG data. UBS and Barclays sold
similar debt paying 160 basis points over the benchmark on June
28, the widest level since October, Deutsche Bank data show.  Delinquency Rates  Wall Street  has arranged about $18.2 billion in commercial
mortgage-backed securities this year, compared with $28 billion
in all of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
record $232 billion of the debt was sold in 2007.  Bonds sold during the market’s peak in 2006 and 2007,
registering record delinquency rates surpassing 10 percent, may
not be able to sustain recent gains, according to Deutsche Bank.  “Yield capitulation will primarily benefit the new issue
market,” the analysts wrote.  Commercial-mortgage bond prices are holding up today even
as  Spain ’s deepening fiscal turmoil spooks markets, according to
 Stephen Schwartz , who trades the debt at  RBC Capital Markets  in
 New York . The spread on a commonly cited benchmark bond issued
during the market’s peak by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and RBS,
one of the most volatile securities in the $550 billion market,
widened about 8 basis points to 235 basis points more than
swaps, he said.  “Anything that has a little bit of extra yield is seeing
strong demand. A small sell-off in equities isn’t enough to
change that dynamic,” Schwartz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  