-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Rise on Signs European Crisis Is Deepening
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-07-23T22:14:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-on-signs-european-crisis-is-deepening.html
A gauge of U.S. company debt risk
rose for a second day on concern that rescue demands from
regional governments in  Spain  will force the nation to seek a
sovereign bailout.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
2.1 basis points to a mid-price of 113.4 basis points at 5:31
p.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
index is trading at the highest since July 9.  Investors are concerned that a deepening of Europe’s debt
crisis will depress global markets and undermine companies’
ability to repay borrowings. Spanish 10-year bond yields climbed
to a new euro-area record today after El Pais reported six
regions may follow Valencia in seeking financial aid from the
government. McDonald’s Corp., the world’s largest restaurant
chain, reported second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’
projections as U.S. same-store sales slowed.  “Fears over Europe, and Spain in particular, combined with
mediocre earnings reports, are driving credit spreads wider,”
 Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York, said in an e-
mail.  Greece Rescue  Greece  will host a visit beginning tomorrow from the troika
of international creditors -- the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund . The
nation is struggling to meet obligations tied to the 240 billion
euros of rescue funding it has received over the past two years
as efforts to reduce its debt to 120 percent of gross domestic
product by 2020 fall short.  Spain’s 10-year yield rose 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 7.50 percent as of 5 p.m. in London after
climbing to 7.565 percent, the highest since November 1996.  Credit swaps typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. The contracts pay the
buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations,
less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Nexen Swaps  Swaps on  Canada ’s  Nexen Inc. (NXY)  fell to the lowest in almost a
year and its bonds surged after  Cnooc Ltd. (CEO)  agreed to buy the oil
producer for $15.1 billion in the biggest overseas purchase by a
Chinese firm.  Nexen contracts declined 83.2 basis points to a mid-price
of 143.8 basis points, according to data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market. That’s about the lowest
since the contracts closed at 139 basis points on Aug. 4,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cnooc, rated  six levels  higher than the Calgary-based
company at Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service, would gain assets
in Canada, the U.K., West Africa and the  Gulf of Mexico  that may
boost the Chinese company’s output by 20 percent. Nexen, which
has about $3.9 billion of bonds outstanding, had a ratio of
total debt to earnings of 1.11 last year, more than three times
Cnooc’s leverage, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in New York at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  