-- Crop Ratings Drop as Worst U.S. Drought Since 1956 Persists
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-07-23T22:41:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/crop-ratings-drop-as-worst-u-s-drought-since-1956-persists-2-.html
The condition of the U.S. corn crop
worsened for the seventh straight week, the longest such streak
since September 2000, as the worst Midwest drought in a
generation expanded. Soybean ratings also fell.  About 26 percent of the corn was in good or excellent
condition as of yesterday, down from 31 percent a week earlier,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said today in a  report . An
estimated 31 percent of the soybeans got the top ratings, down
from 34 percent. The assessments are the worst for both crops
for this time of year since a drought in 1988.  “Conditions are really starting to decline even in areas
that are supposed to be pretty good,”  Tomm Pfitzenmaier , a
partner at Summit Commodity Brokerage in  Des Moines ,  Iowa , said
in a telephone interview. “It’s been tough with a lot of wind
and heat.”  Corn futures reached a record $8 a bushel on the Chicago
Board of Trade today, and soybeans surged to $16.915 a bushel,
the highest ever. Little or no rain fell in parts of Iowa and
 Illinois  in the past 30 days, according to the  National Weather
Service .  A drought in 1988 led to a 31 percent drop in corn
production from a year earlier and a 20 percent decline for
soybeans, USDA data show.  Bad Timing  In the western Corn Belt and Great Plains, dry weather
continued last week with temperatures topping 100 degrees
Fahrenheit (38 Celsius), Brad Rippey, a USDA meteorologist, said
today in a  USDA blog . The heat “could not have come at a worse
time for corn and soybeans entering the reproductive stage of
development,” Rippey wrote.  The hot weather will persist through mid-week across the
Plains and Midwest, followed by “markedly cooler air” and 1
inch (2.5 centimeters) to 3 inches of rain, Rippey said.  “Prospects for Midwestern drought relief will improve this
week, especially in the northern and eastern Corn Belt,” Rippey
said. “Only light showers can be expected across the
southwestern Corn Belt, from  Nebraska  to southern Illinois.
Unfavorably dry conditions will also persist on the central and
southern Plains.”  The government’s crop-conditions report showed 60 percent
of  spring wheat , a high-protein variety used to make bread and
pasta, was rated good or excellent, down from 65 percent a week
earlier. About 12 percent of the crop was harvested.  The winter-wheat harvest was 82 percent completed, compared
with 80 percent a week earlier, the USDA said. The average for
the previous five years was 73 percent.  About 47 percent of the  cotton  crop was rated good or
excellent, compared with 45 percent a week earlier. An estimated
69 percent of the rice crop got the top ranking, compared with
70 percent a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  Chicago  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net . 