-- Crop Prices Drop After Surging to Record on U.S. Midwest
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-07-23T07:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/crop-prices-drop-after-surging-to-record-on-u-s-drought.html
Corn and soybeans declined after
surging to records as global economic concerns prompted
investors to sell riskier assets, dragging down equities and
commodities including crops and crude oil.  December-delivery corn advanced 0.5 percent to $8 a bushel
on the  Chicago  Board of Trade, beating the previous high of
$7.9925 set in 2008, before dropping 0.7 percent to $7.905 at
2:57 p.m. in Singapore. Soybeans peaked at $16.915 a bushel,
beating a high set last week, before dropping to $16.6675.  Corn has soared more than 55 percent since June 15 as the
worst U.S. drought in decades cut yields, signaling higher  food
prices  and boosting expenses for producers of livestock feed and
ethanol. While today’s falls were driven by concerns that Greece
may quit the euro zone and  growth in China  may slow,  Paul Deane ,
an agricultural economist at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said the rally in grains and soybeans will resume.  “What we’re seeing this morning is probably just a little
bit of reaction to the macro-economic situation,” Deane said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. “In the short term, there’s a
little bit of susceptibility if we get a major macro-risk
event,” after the rally lured investors.  Wheat for September delivery dropped 1.5 percent to $9.2925
a bushel, after climbing to $9.4725, the highest price for a
most-active contract since August 2008. Soybean meal for
December delivery advanced as much as 1.1 percent to $509.80 per
2,000 pounds in Chicago, an all-time high for the most-active
contract, before declining 0.9 percent to $499.90.  Greece Concern  Commodities as tracked by the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot
Index fell today as oil, copper and gold dropped and the dollar
rallied. Economic growth in China, the world’s largest consumer
of grains and soybeans, may cool this quarter, a Chinese central
bank adviser said. German Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler told
broadcaster ARD yesterday that he is “very skeptical” Greece
can be rescued and that the prospect of its exit from the
monetary union “has long ago lost its terror.”  Corn is in the fourth year of a  bull market , heading for
the longest rally since 1964. The drought that prompted the U.S.
to declare almost 1,300 counties in 29 states as natural-
disaster areas, may cause a global shortage, said  Commonwealth
Bank of Australia. (CBA)  Global production was estimated by the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  on July 11 to rise to a record 905.2
million tons in 2012-2013, before the drought worsened. World
use was predicted by the agency to reach 900.5 million tons.  Food Costs  The U.S. drought may spark a rebound in global food prices
from this month through October, halting a slide that sent costs
in June to the lowest in 21 months,  Abdolreza Abbassian , an
economist in  Rome  at the  United Nations ’ Food & Agriculture
Organization, said on July 5.  “If the hot, dry weather pattern continues for another
month, it could be a drought of Biblical proportions,”  Dan Cekander , director of grain research for Newedge USA LLC, said
in a telephone interview before corn reached the record. “We
have to define the extent of the damage.”  The  condition  of the corn crop deteriorated for the sixth
week, the longest such streak since 2003, the USDA said last
week. About 31 percent of the crop was in good or excellent
condition as of July 15, from 40 percent a week earlier, the
agency said. Soybean  conditions  also worsened for a sixth week,
with the share rated good to excellent slipping to 34 percent as
of July 15, the worst since 1988, according to USDA data.  Corn yields in  Iowa , the biggest U.S. grower, will be
smaller than the government forecast this month, Governor Terry Branstad said last week. The USDA will update its forecasts for
U.S. and global supply and demand on Aug. 10.  Higher corn prices may boost meat costs for companies such
as Popeyes Louisiana Kitchen and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  Cereal and
sweetener expenses for General Mills Co. and  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  may
climb.  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , the world’s biggest grain
processor, also faces higher costs. The company uses corn in
ethanol, sweeteners and livestock feed.  Corn may climb to $9 if U.S. yields fall below 140 bushels
an acre, barring a “demand meltdown,” UBS AG said last week in
a report. Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion
in 2011, government figures show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  