-- Cuomo Says New Bond Insurer Licensed to Guarantee Muni Projects
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-07-23T15:34:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/cuomo-says-new-bond-insurer-licensed-to-guarantee-muni-projects.html
Build America Mutual Assurance Co.,
the first mutual bond insurer guaranteeing state and municipal
debt, was licensed by  New York  State’s insurance regulator.  With $600 million in initial financing and  Standard &
Poor’s  third-highest ranking of AA, the company will operate as
the nation’s highest-rated bond guarantor, New York Governor
 Andrew Cuomo  said today in a statement with the state’s
Department of Financial Services. The insurer will be owned by
its issuers and insure municipal bonds of as much as $75
million, according to the statement.  Build America, which plans to issue its first policy in
September, will help “small local governments raise the funds
they need to build necessary projects, while saving taxpayers’
money,” Cuomo said in the statement.  Bond insurers charge cities and states upfront premiums in
exchange for a promise to support their debt in a crisis. That
saves municipalities money because investors demand lower
 interest rates  on bonds backed by highly rated companies.  The collapse of the U.S. housing market four years ago
saddled bond insurers with losses on mortgage debt after they
ventured beyond municipals to insure some of Wall Street’s most
toxic securities. The companies are still untangling the legacy
of the faulty home loans that left the industry without any top-
rated insurers after defaults began to soar.  Assured Guaranty
Ltd. (AGO)  is the only company left offering insurance in the $2.8
trillion U.S. municipal-bond market.  Industry Veterans  Hudson-Greenwich Partners LLC, a partnership founded by
Robert Cochran and Sean McCarthy, announced its intention last
year to create the insurer. Cochran co-founded Financial
Security Assurance Inc., once the largest insurer of municipal
bonds before being acquired by rival  Assured Guaranty . McCarthy
was Hamilton, Bermuda-based Assured Guaranty’s chief operating
officer after it bought FSA in 2009.  Build America will back investment-grade general obligation
debt or “other revenue bonds issued to fund essential
governmental facilities and services,” according to the
statement. The company said it won’t back structured securities
like the mortgage debt that led to losses for the industry.  The financial services department “will closely monitor
BAM to safeguard against the problems that the bond insurance
market encountered during the height of the economic crisis,”
Financial Services Superintendent  Benjamin Lawsky  said in the
statement.  S&P  stripped  Assured Guaranty of its AAA rating in October
2010, the last in the industry after MBIA Inc. and Ambac
Financial Group Inc. lost the top ranking in 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  