-- Denmark’s Tougher Bank Impairments Are Positive, Moody’s Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-07-23T09:10:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/denmark-s-tougher-bank-impairments-are-positive-moody-s-says.html
Denmark’s tougher loan impairment
standard is credit positive for the country’s banks even as it
risks reducing capital, Moody’s Investors Service said.  More stringent rules force the industry to build reserves
against loan losses and to improve asset transparency, the
ratings company said in a Credit Outlook published today. In
cases where the provisions exceed income, “bank capitalization
might decline,” Moody’s said.  “However, improved transparency and reserve increases that
shield against further portfolio deterioration are more
important than higher capital achieved with inadequate
reserves,” Oscar Heemskerk and Blake Foster, analysts at
Moody’s, said in the report.  The Danish Financial Supervisory Authority tightened rules
starting in the second quarter after two bank bail-ins and
inspections last year led it to conclude that lenders took “too
optimistic” a view on their loans. Banks must now value
properties at prices that independent buyers would be expected
to pay within six months, Moody’s said.  Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK) , Denmark’s second-largest listed lender,
last week unexpectedly reported second-quarter impairments of
900 million kroner ($146 million), including 540 million kroner
from loans and guarantees.  Real estate lending made up 22 percent of total loan-by-
loan determined impairments at banks amid a drop in property
prices, Moody’s said. Prices of business property fell an annual
23 percent in the first quarter, the ratings company said.  “We do not expect this decline to reverse in the near
future, as office vacancies reached 9.2 percent in April, the
highest level since the Danish Association of Chartered Estate
Agents began publishing such data in 1988,” Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  