-- Devon Energy, Texas Sue EPA Over Ozone Limits Set by Bush
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-23T21:10:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/devon-energy-texas-sue-epa-over-ozone-limits-set-by-bush.html
Devon Energy Corp. and the state of
Texas sued the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to challenge
the way ozone emission limits set by President  George W. Bush ’s
administration are being implemented.  The lawsuits, brought in the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
Washington, are among more than 10 filed since July 19 opposing
the agency’s designation of 46 areas across the country as
failing to meet the 2008 federal maximum standard of 75 parts
per billion. Devon Energy objects that Wise County, Texas, where
it has natural gas operations, is on the list.  “The science behind the designation is lackluster, and
relies on methods rejected by other EPA regions,” Joe Leonard,
an environmental, health and safety engineer at Devon Energy,
said in testimony before the House Committee on Oversight and
Government Reform on July 13.  A state or locality must develop a plan to cut its ozone
pollution if it’s tagged with the designation of “non-
attainment” for exceeding the 75 parts-per-billion standard.  EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson  proposed lowering the
standard to 70 parts per billion, which President  Barack Obama 
turned down in September after a lobbying campaign by industry
groups.  Other Challengers  Other challengers include Targa Resources Corp., the state
of Tennessee and the Gas Processors Association.  The agency’s decision to include Wise County in its list
was “arbitrary” and “clearly in error,” Tim Hartley, a
spokesman for Oklahoma City-based Devon Energy, said in an e-
mail. He said that in addition to filing the lawsuit, the
company asked the EPA to reconsider its decision.  David Bloomgren, an EPA spokesman, didn’t immediately
respond to a telephone message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Ozone , a precursor to smog, is caused by emissions from
vehicle traffic, industrial activities or projects such as  road
construction . Gas escaping from wells or pipelines contains
volatile organic compounds such as benzene, which also can cause
smog. Engines running compressors, drill rigs or pumps also
release nitrogen oxides, another source of ozone.  The Devon Energy case is  Devon Energy Corp. (DVN)  v. U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency, 12-01322; the Texas case is
Texas v. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 12-01316, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 