-- HDFC Sees 20% Mortgage Jump, Half-Point Rate Cut: India Credit
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-07-24T07:24:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/hdfc-sees-20-mortgage-jump-half-point-rate-cut-india-credit.html
India’s biggest mortgage lender
predicts an increase in home loans of as much as 20 percent as a
further half percentage point interest-rate cut will spur demand
in smaller cities.  The expansion in  Housing Development Finance Corp. (HDFC) ’s loan
book in the year through March 2013 may match the 20.3 percent
pace of the previous 12 months, Keki Mistry, Mumbai-based chief
executive officer of the company known as HDFC said in a July 20
telephone interview. State Bank of India’s home-loan growth will
match last year’s 11 percent rate, Chief Financial Officer
Diwakar Gupta, said in an interview yesterday.  The forecasts show central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao
has leverage to stimulate housing demand in an economy growing
at the slowest pace in almost a decade. Traders are betting
borrowing costs will decline with five-year  interest-rate swaps ,
the fixed cost to lock in floating rates, falling 26 basis
points in the past month to 6.93 percent in India, more than the
16 basis point drop in China.  “There is strong demand for loans in Tier 2 cities,”
which have been less affected by India’s economic slowdown than
Mumbai, said Mistry. “Indian  interest rates  may drop by another
50 basis points by year-end.”  Credit Suisse Group AG and Yes Bank Ltd. also forecast the
 Reserve Bank  of India, which in April cut the  repurchase rate  to
8 percent from 8.50 percent in its first reduction since 2009,
will lower it to 7.50 percent by Dec. 31 to boost growth. The
central bank left the rate unchanged in the mid-quarterly
monetary policy review in June, and all 11 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg expect no change at its next appraisal on July 31.  AAA Rating  Rated AAA by Standard & Poor’s Indian unit Crisil Ltd.,
HDFC is the third-biggest debt issuer so far in 2012 with sales
of 95 billion rupees ($1.7 billion), according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. It sold 119.4 billion rupees of bonds in the same
period last year and was the top issuer then. Indian companies
sold 1.14 trillion rupees of local bonds this year, 32 percent
more than a year earlier, the data show.  The yield on HDFC’s 9.7 percent notes maturing in February
2016 has dropped 26 basis points, or 0.26 percentage points, to
9.21 percent, according to the Fixed Income Money Market &
Derivatives Association of  India .  The  yield premium  that investors demand for top-rated five-
year Indian corporate debt compared with similar-maturity
government notes widened to 154.8 basis points, from 124.9 at
the start of the month, the data show. Borrowing costs are 4.15
percent for AAA-rated Chinese companies.  ‘Expect Positivity’  “The spreads are probably near the peak and most economic
indicators point towards a shrinkage,” Ganti N. Murthy, Mumbai-
based head of fixed income investments at Peerless Funds
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $687 million in
assets, said in a July 20 telephone interview. “Too much
pessimism had been priced in and some of that has to get
reversed now. Issuers and investors, alike, can expect some
positivity to return to the markets sooner than later.”  India’s inflation rate unexpectedly slowed last month, with
 wholesale prices  rising 7.25 percent from a year earlier, after
climbing 7.55 percent in May, government data show. The country
has the fastest inflation of the so-called BRIC economies, which
include  China , Russia and  Brazil .  Asia ’s third-largest economy expanded 5.3 percent in the
quarter ended March 31, the least in nine years.  HDFC reported this month net income in the quarter ended
June 30 rose 19 percent to 10.2 billion rupees from a year
earlier. Bad loans at the lender have declined 30 straight
quarters, according to Mistry.  Asset Quality  “We are not seeing any stress in our home loan
portfolio,” Mistry said. “I’m not expecting any negative
surprises going ahead as far as asset quality is concerned.”  Elsewhere in India’s credit markets, rupee declined 0.1
percent to 56 per dollar as of 11:56 a.m. in Mumbai, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the government’s
8.15 percent bonds due June 2012 fell 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, this month. The notes yielded 8.07 percent in
Mumbai today, according to the central bank’s trading system.  The  extra yield  on government debt over Treasuries widened
four basis points to 664 today, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Indian sovereign notes returned 6.1 percent this year,
trailing the 6.4 percent earned by Indonesian securities in the
region’s best performance, according to HSBC Holdings Plc
indexes.  Credit-default swaps on  State Bank , which some investors
consider a proxy for the sovereign, have this month declined 39
basis points to 330.7 in  New York , according to data provider
CMA. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “Demand for home loans from all markets is strong,” State
Bank CFO Gupta said. “Further cuts in the policy rate will
strengthen demand for loans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anto Antony in Mumbai at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  