-- Dialight Rises on International Expansion Plans: London Mover
-- B y   J o s e p h i n e   F o r s t e r
-- 2012-07-23T15:47:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/dialight-rises-on-international-expansion-plans-london-mover.html
Dialight Plc (DIA)  rose the most in more
than six weeks after the maker of LED lighting raised its
dividend and said a factory in  Malaysia  is almost ready to
begin production.  Manufacturing will start in Penang in the current quarter
as Dialight expands in  Asia  and the  Middle East , it said today
in a statement. The Suffolk, England-based company raised its
interim  dividend  to 4 pence from 3.3 pence, and said full-year
earnings will be “at the higher end of current market
expectations.”  Dialight is seeking to supply lights for new projects
rather than replacing existing lighting, and will do “bigger
projects but fewer of them,” Chief Executive Officer Roy Burton
said in an interview. The maker of light emitting diode products
said today that it won an order to provide fixtures for the
large distribution center of an online retailer in Germany.  The U.K. company is targeting former Soviet republics for
expansion because of their growing oil and gas industries,
Burton said.  “It’s clear for us that that’s a marketplace that we would
be missing out on if we did not expand,”  the CEO  said in the
interview. “There is huge investment going on. We’ll hire
salespeople to address those market places, moving into Russia
and  Kazakhstan  and Uzbekistan. That’s probably a 2013 event.”  Dialight  gained  5.2 percent to 1,049, the most since June
6, leading advancing stocks on the FTSE 350 Index, which
declined 2.1 percent.  Acquisition Cash  The company’s net cash of 8.1 million pounds ($12.6
billion) “supports a tactical acquisition program,” Andrew Shepherd-Barron, an analyst at Peel Hunt, said today in a note.
He recommends buying the stock.  The company will consider acquisitions to help it reach new
markets, Burton said. Dialight made purchases in Australia and
Japan last year to gain “channel to market,” he said. “We
will continue to look for those acquisitions.”  Finance Director Mark Fryer said Dialight’s cash assets and
bank facilities mean it “shouldn’t have any issues” financing
expansion.  Dialight’s revenue rose 18 percent to 61.1 million pounds
in the first half, led by the signals and illumination business.  Dialight also said today it will create a sales team in
 Brazil  to serve the oil and gas market, and continue to grow in
 Europe . The company intends to double its sales force this year
after increasing employees in the U.S. and  Mexico .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josephine Forster in London at 
 jforster13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  