-- DreamWorks Animation Sees Distribution Decision Within Weeks
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-07-23T23:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/dreamworks-animation-sees-distribution-announcement-in-2-weeks.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) 
expects to announce a new agreement for distribution of its
films in theaters within weeks, replacing an expiring deal with
 Viacom Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures.  “We’ll have something in the next couple of weeks,” Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Katzenberg  said today in a telephone
interview. A DreamWorks Animation spokeswoman said later that a
decision is expected no later than Labor Day.  Katzenberg wouldn’t discuss specifics or say whether the
Glendale, California-based studio had ruled out distributing its
own movies when the Paramount deal ends this year. Other options
include re-upping with Paramount or working with a new studio
such as  Sony Corp. (6758)   “Each and every one of them have pluses and minuses,”
Katzenberg said in an interview with Bloomberg Television.  DreamWorks Animation, which today announced the acquisition
of Classic Media, fell 0.4 percent to $19.08 at the close in New
York.  The studio, spun off from DreamWorks SKG and taken public
by Katzenberg in 2004, has fallen 57 percent from an all-time
closing high of $44 a share on March 24, 2010, as the company,
like others in Hollywood, has sold fewer DVDs.  DreamWorks Animation’s most recent theatrical release,
“Madagascar 3: Europe’s Most Wanted,” has generated $476.4
million in worldwide ticket sales since June 8, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo. The website estimates the production
budget at $145 million.  The next movie, “Rise of the Guardians,” is a computer-
generated picture featuring the fictional character Jack Frost
battling evil in the world. It is scheduled for a Nov. 21
release and features the voices of  Hugh Jackman ,  Chris Pine  and
Alec Baldwin, according to the Internet Movie Database.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  