-- DreamWorks Animation to Buy Owner of Casper, Lassie Shows
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-07-23T20:36:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/dreamworks-animation-to-buy-owner-of-casper-lassie-shows.html
DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA) , the
movie studio run by  Jeffrey Katzenberg , agreed to acquire
Classic Media for $155 million, adding a library of vintage film
and television characters including Casper and Lassie.  Classic’s co-chief executives, Eric Ellenbogen and John Engelman, will run the new DreamWorks Classics unit, according
to an e-mail yesterday from Shannon Olivas, a spokeswoman for
Glendale, California-based DreamWorks Animation. Classic Media
is owned by an affiliate of private equity firm GTCR LLC.  The acquisition marks further expansion for DreamWorks
Animation, which formed a venture in  China  this year, adding
characters that can bolster Katzenberg’s film and TV lineup.
Ellenbogen, who co-founded Classic Media in May 2000, had been
CEO of Marvel Entertainment, where he signed the long-term deal
with Sony Pictures to produce the Spider-Man films, according to
a  profile  on the GTCR Website.  “This is arguably one of the largest, most valuable
collection of characters and branded assets left in the world
today,” Katzenberg said in an interview. “We see this really
providing DreamWorks with whole new sets of opportunities.”  DreamWorks Animation plans to use Classic Media’s
characters in all of its operations, including film, TV, home
entertainment, consumer products, digital, theme parks and live
outlets, Katzenberg said.  The studio plans to release a 3-D feature film titled “Mr.
Peabody & Sherman,” based on Classic Media characters, on Dec.
25, 2013.  6,100 Episodes  Classic Media, based in  New York , has acquired the rights
to more than 6,100 episodes of vintage cartoons and TV shows
such as “Rocky & Bullwinkle,” “Casper the Friendly Ghost,”
“The Lone Ranger” and “Lassie” in parts since 2000.  For the 12 months ended Feb. 29, Classic Media posted an
operating profit of $19.2 million on sales of $82.2 million,
according to the statement. DreamWorks expects the purchase to
add to profit in the first full year after the deal closes.  Classic Media said it is the third-largest holder of comic
book rights, including the Harvey brand. It also owns Big Idea,
maker of the religious-themed children’s series VeggieTales.  DreamWorks Animation expects to announce a new film-
distribution accord in two weeks, Katzenberg said. He declined
to provide specifics or say whether the company had ruled out
distributing movies itself when the current deal with  Viacom
Inc. (VIAB) ’s Paramount Pictures ends this year.  ‘Madagascar 3’  DreamWorks Animation fell 0.4 percent to $19.08 at the
close in New York. The studio,  spun off  from DreamWorks SKG and
taken public by Katzenberg in 2004, has fallen 57 percent from
an all-time closing high of $44 a share on March 24, 2010, as
the company, like others in Hollywood, has sold fewer DVDs.  The company’s most recent theatrical release, “Madagascar
3:  Europe ’s Most Wanted,” has generated $476.4 million in
worldwide ticket sales since June 8, according to researcher  Box
Office Mojo . The website estimates the production budget at $145
million.  DreamWorks Animation’s next movie, “Rise of the
Guardians,” is a computer-generated picture featuring the
fictional character Jack Frost battling evil in the world. It is
scheduled for a Nov. 21 release and features the voices of  Hugh
Jackman ,  Chris Pine  and  Alec Baldwin , according to the Internet
Movie Database.  The deal for Classic Media was reported yesterday by the
Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  