-- Drive to End AIDS in U.S. Stalls as Epidemic Grips Blacks
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-07-23T18:27:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/drive-to-end-aids-in-u-s-stalls-as-epidemic-grips-minorities.html
Monique Moree  is the new face of the
AIDS epidemic in the U.S. The 31-year-old stay-at-home mom, who
is black, was pregnant with her third child in 2005 when she
found out she had HIV, the virus that causes AIDS.  “I was shocked,” Moree, of Summerville,  South Carolina ,
said by telephone. “Being a wife, I didn’t think I could be HIV
positive. I hated myself and God. I wanted to kill myself.”  Now Moree takes three pills a day to fight the illness and,
so far, has been free of its most damaging effects. While she’s
thrived, others she knows haven’t been so fortunate, she said.
She blames the government for not doing enough for minority
communities increasingly at the center of the U.S. epidemic.  “African Americans have been hit so hard,” she said.  While black men and women are 14 percent of the population,
they accounted for 44 percent of 48,000 new HIV cases in 2009,
the latest year available for definitive data, according to the
Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The
infection rate in black men was more than six times that in
white males, and black women were 15 times more likely to become
infected than their white counterparts, the CDC data shows.  New data examining how fast the virus is spreading among
black men in hard-hit areas will be presented this week at the
first International AIDS Conference to be held on U.S. soil in
22 years. How to target interventions to slow the spread of HIV
in these affected communities will be a focus of the meeting,
which started yesterday in  Washington .  Falling Behind  In one government-funded study presented at the conference
today, researchers from the HIV Prevention Trials Network found
that the rate of new infection in black gay and bisexual men was
2.8 percent a year, 50 percent higher than in white men who
reported having sex with a male. For black gay and bisexual men
who are 30 years of age or younger, the rate was 5.9 percent a
year, according to the study of 1,553 men in six U.S. cities.  “To say we’re not where we want to be is an
understatement,” said  Charles Flexner , an infectious disease
specialist and clinical pharmacologist at  Johns Hopkins
University  in Baltimore who has studied infection rates among
black women. “We haven’t achieved the goals we want to.”  In March, Flexner and colleagues reported on a  study  that
found infection rates were five times higher than government
estimates for 2,099 black women in six U.S. cities. The data was
similar to that reported in parts of  Africa  where the disease is
considered the most virulent, he said.  Evolving Epidemic  A combination of poverty, stigma and lack of access to
health care services help propel the epidemic among blacks and
other minorities, said Carlos del Rio, chairman of global health
at Emory University in Atlanta.  “We have the worst epidemic of any developed country and
part of the reason is that some regions of this country are not
a developed country anymore,” del Rio said in a telephone
interview. “The epidemic has changed dramatically and that is
something that is not totally appreciated.”  At Grady Memorial Hospital in Atlanta, doctors are seeing
more young black men in their twenties come in with late stage
AIDS, said Jeffrey Lennox, chief of infectious disease at Grady
Memorial.  “I would estimate it has probably gone up by at least 50
percent compared to five years ago,” and many of the patients
he sees are being diagnosed late in the disease, after symptoms
have begun to weaken them, Lennox said by telephone.  Unknown Infections  “The people that are transmitting the virus either don’t
know that they are infected, or don’t know they should be on
treatment, or haven’t accepted treatment,” he said.  One young black man he worked with didn’t report for
treatment until he had a CD4 count of less than 10 cells per
cubic milliliter, compared to a normal level of above 500. These
are a type of immune system cells affected by the AIDS virus.  The man by that point had suffered permanent nerve damage,
Lennox said. While the virus is now under control thanks to a
cocktail of powerful drugs, the man will live the rest of his
life in a wheelchair, he said.  At least eight patients have reported to the hospital in
the past year in a similarly late stage of disease, Lennox said.  Researchers aren’t sure why black men with male partners
had such higher rates of infection since black men weren’t more
likely to engage in unprotected or risky sex than white men,
according to a CDC study presented at the meeting. One
explanation may be that black men tended to have higher levels
of the virus, making them more infectious to other partners,
Linda Beer, a CDC researcher, said in a presentation today.  Defining Moment  Beer said HIV infected black men were less likely to get
adequate treatment, which can lower their viral load and
decrease their ability to transmit the virus.  “Our prevention efforts have been stalled, that is without
a doubt,” said Phill Wilson, president of the Black AIDS
Institute based in  Los Angeles , in a telephone interview. In
black gay American men, the HIV problem “rivals the epidemic
you find in  South Africa , Zimbabwe or  Nigeria .”  Wilson said he is optimistic that better targeting of
federal money and an increased emphasis on using drugs early
after infection to prevent spread can turn things around.  “We are at a deciding moment right now,” he said.  Chronic Disease  Health and Human Services Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said
yesterday that the Obama administration has changed its formula
for distributing funds for HIV prevention to get more money to
the most-affected communities. She also announced partnerships
to help people with HIV get on treatment, including a three-year
effort with  Walgreen Co. (WAG)  to test how pharmacies can help
patients adhere to their drug regimens.  “Too many people are slipping through the cracks,”
Sebelius said in a speech at the opening session of the
conference, according to her prepared remarks.  With powerful new drugs keeping people alive for decades,
AIDS has gone from being a death sentence to a chronic disease.
The challenge now is finding people at high risk in poorer
communities before they get infected, said Kathie Hiers, chief
executive officer of AIDS  Alabama , a nonprofit group that
assists patients with housing, testing and other services.  People in poor communities  need to be better counseled on
prevention, and given ready access to testing so they can be
treated quickly if they are infected, a strategy that research
has shown can prevent them from getting complications from HIV
and help stop them from spreading the virus to others.  Vulnerable Populations  “It boils down to vulnerable populations,” Hiers said by
telephone. “We are talking about people with less money, with
less influence and with less access to health care. All of those
structural issues are worse in the black community.”  The entire South “is in crisis,” she said.  Just getting someone to a clinic there can be a huge
problem, she said. “When people are making $10,000 a year, they
don’t have a car,” she said.  Bill Arnold , CEO of the Washington-based Community Access
National Network, said testing programs are key.  “Thirty years into the epidemic, some groups aren’t being
reached to know they need to be tested, he said by telephone.
“There are stigma issues in some communities, and the younger
generation thinks they will live forever.”  One question researchers are just beginning to examine is
how broadly to roll out Truvada, the AIDS drug from  Foster City ,
California-based  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  that was approved last
week as the first pill to prevent the disease.  Cultural Factors  One study set to be reported in the next few months will
examine the practicality of giving Truvada to healthy black gay
men in three major cities, said Darrell Wheeler, an AIDS
researcher at Loyola University Chicago.  “We are going to be looking at whether they are willing to
take it, do they adhere to it if they decide to take it, and are
there any side effects,” he said by telephone.  If a large scale rollout looks feasible, the next thorny
question becomes who will pay for it, he said.  Wafaa El-Sadr a professor at  Columbia University  in  New
York , said the U.S. has traditionally failed to target the
unique cultural and social factors that tend to propagate the
disease within disadvantaged communities. These include isolated
social networks, distrust for authority and lack of access to
consistent health care, she said.  AIDS prevention messages tend to stress a broad need to
avoid high-risk behaviors, such as unprotected sex with lots of
partners. In minority communities, men don’t have unprotected
sex more often than in other groups, El-Sadr said. Instead,
they’re more likely to have sex with someone who may be infected
and doesn’t know it, she said.  Federal Funding  Jonathan Mermin, director of the division of HIV/AIDS
prevention at the CDC, said the agency uses “surveillance data
and epidemiology to target interventions where they’re needed
the most.”  Federal funding for HIV treatment and prevention efforts in
the U.S. has risen to $22.3 billion in President  Barack Obama ’s
proposed fiscal 2013 budget, from $20.6 billion in 2011. The CDC
spends about $700 million on HIV prevention efforts, Mermin
said.  Funding has been targeted on a range of at-risk
populations, he said. For instance, he said an expanded testing
program that began in 2007 focusing on black Americans diagnosed
18,400 people with HIV infections in its first three years.  The CDC starting in September plans to begin providing $44
million over three years to improve the continuum of care in
states with high numbers of blacks and Latinos living with HIV,
Mermin said. The aim is to help make sure people get tested, get
on treatment, and then stay on it.  Disproportionate Impact  Among other things, it will involve “peer navigators” to
help people get the testing and treatment they need, he said.  “We are aware of the disproportionate impact that HIV is
having on African Americans, as well as Latinos, and we are
increasingly focusing efforts to decrease those disparities,”
Mermin said in a telephone interview.  Also starting Sept. 1, people with HIV who can’t afford
their medicines will be able to use a single form to apply for
assistance from eight companies that make HIV drugs, including
 Merck & Co. (MRK)  and Gilead, Sebelius said.  While the number of new infections has been stable for a
decade, this is partly because of the success of drug cocktails
in keeping people with HIV alive, Mermin said. More than 1.1
million Americans are living with the virus, according to the
latest CDC data. That means there are more people who in theory
can spread the virus than ever before, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  