-- Dubai Shares Drop Most Since June on Greece, China; Qatar Falls
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-07-23T13:31:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/dubai-s-shares-drop-to-week-low-on-greece-china-qatar-declines.html
Dubai’s shares fell the most in more
than seven weeks on concern  Greece  won’t fulfill its bailout
commitments and after a policy maker in China warned of cooling
economic growth.  Arabtec Holding (ARTC)  PJSC, the biggest builder in the United
Arab Emirates by market value, fell 2.4 percent.  Deyaar
Development (DEYAAR)  PJSC, a Dubai-based property developer, retreated
for a third day. The DFM General Index lost 1.5 percent, the
most since June 3, to 1,493.36 at the close in Dubai. The
measure rallied 3 percent last week. Qatar’s QE Index declined
0.2 percent. The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  of the region’s stocks
fell 0.7 percent.  “The modest rally we’ve seen in the United Arab Emirates
over the past couple of weeks is already under threat,” said
 Julian Bruce , the Dubai-based director of institutional sales
trading at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “For the uptrend to be
maintained, typical Ramadan apathy exhibited by locals would
have to be compensated for by increased western institutional
interest but against the current backdrop that would seem to be
a big ask.”  Greece’s creditors convene this week amid doubts that the
country will meet its bailout commitments. German Vice
Chancellor Philipp Roesler said he’s “very skeptical” that
European leaders will be able to rescue Greece. The troika of
international creditors -- the European Commission, the European
Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund -- will arrive
in Athens tomorrow. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 2.6 percent
at 2:29 p.m. in London.  China Cools  China ’s economic expansion may cool for a seventh quarter
to 7.4 percent in the three months to September, said Song Guoqing, a member of the  People’s Bank of China  monetary policy
committee. Crude for September delivery fell as much as 3.8
percent to $88.01 a barrel in New York. Gulf Arab oil exporters,
including the U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia (SABIC) , supply about a fifth of
the world’s oil.  About 67 million shares traded in Dubai today, compared
with a 12-month daily average of about 139 million shares.
Yesterday, about 30 million shares traded, the least since Jan.
2, according to data on Bloomberg. The Islamic holy month of
Ramadan, when Muslims fast from sunrise to sunset and business
activity slows, started over the weekend.  Arabtec dropped the most since June 3 to 2.88 dirhams.
Deyaar slipped 2.2 percent to 31.1 fils, the lowest since July
16.  Bahrain’s measure and  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  slipped
0.1 percent, while the  Kuwait Stock Exchange Unweighted Index (KWSEIDX) 
fell 0.5 percent. Saudi Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  dropped
0.9 percent. Oman’s stock market was closed for a holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  