-- Duke Merger Future Clouded by Rift With State Regulators
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n ,   B e n   H a a s   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2012-07-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/duke-merger-future-clouded-by-rift-with-state-regulators.html
Duke Energy (DUK)  Inc. faces a divided
board, alienated regulators and demoralized employees as state
officials investigate management upheaval following its $17.8
billion takeover of Progress Energy Inc.  Distrust and disagreement between the two now-joined
companies was stoked by an 18-month merger process, with
tensions flaring between chief executive officers in the six
months before the deal closed July 2, Duke directors and
Progress’s ousted CEO said at hearings before the  North Carolina 
Utilities Commission last week.  The investigation is detracting from Duke’s integration as
largest U.S. utility-owner, Ann Maynard Gray, Duke’s lead
director, told regulators July 20. Gray led a board vote to
replace  Bill Johnson  as Duke’s CEO the same day the merger
closed. Duke’s former CEO  James Rogers  was reinstated in that
position, replacing his rival from Progress.  “The board’s action appears to have triggered what we
believe will be a months-long legal and regulatory quagmire,”
 Hugh Wynne , a New York-based analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. wrote in a July 20 note to clients. “The most significant
headwind to earnings growth is the increasingly adversarial
relationship between Duke Energy and its most important
regulator, the North Carolina Utilities Commission.”  Duke, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, has 3.2 million
of its 7.1 million customers in North Carolina following the
merger. North Carolina’s attorney general also is investigating
the last-minute CEO change and Duke shareholders have sued the
board.  Integration Continues  Duke is taking steps to address frayed board relations and
to fill the gap in its executive team caused by the departure of
three of Johnson’s lieutenants,  Tom Williams , a company
spokesman, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Gray plans to meet with the five former Progress directors
who remain on Duke’s board later this week. Rogers has named
Progress executive Lee Mazzocchi as its senior vice-president
and chief integration officer, and Keith Trent to head its
regulated utilities operation. Both replace Progress executives
who stepped down after Johnson was forced out. A third position,
chief administrative officer, won’t be filled.  “The integration process has not slowed down one iota due
to the CEO change,” Williams said.  Exceeding Authority?  The North Carolina probes prompted retired  Bank of America 
Corp. CEO Hugh McColl to question whether regulators were over-
stepping their authority by second-guessing the board’s decision
to remove Johnson.  The commission has the power to amend or rescind its June
29 order approving the merger, and officials at a July 20
hearing wouldn’t rule out requiring Duke to reinstate Johnson.  McColl was a party to a similar CEO swap in 1998 when he
replaced David Coulter as CEO shortly after Charlotte-based
Nationsbank Corp. acquired Bank of America.  “One of the principal functions of the board is to hire
and fire the CEO,” McColl wrote in a letter to the editor of
the  Charlotte  Observer, published July 22.’’ The people who
wrote and adopted our corporate laws settled this issue long
ago. If regulators insert themselves into matters of the board
room, they chill the business atmosphere for our state.’’  The threats of protracted regulatory and legal backlash to
the CEO shift have weighed on Duke’s stock. Its shares have
fallen 5.2 percent to $66.22 since July 2, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Utilities Sector Index rose 1.2 percent.  Trust Breach  “There has been a breach of trust with regulators and
that’s one reason we’re cautious about the stock,”  Marc De Croisset, a  New York  based analyst for FBR Capital Markets &
Co., said in a telephone interview on July 20. “The investment
cliche of utilities as stable and predictable is being shaken up
by these hearings and everything that’s transpired.”  Johnson testified during last week’s proceeding that he
lost his job because he insisted on completing the merger when
Duke wanted to back out.  Rogers and Gray blamed poor performance by Progress and
foot dragging by Johnson at disclosing information about a
damaged nuclear reactor in  Florida .  “For us to have a CEO in whom we don’t have confidence
because of certain leadership styles was just not the right
choice,” Gray said July 20.  Testimony during three days of hearings held by regulators
in Raleigh, North Carolina, sharpened divisions between an
already fractured board.  Divided Board  The five former Progress directors were overruled by 10
continuing Duke directors in the decision to oust Johnson,
according to testimony by directors E. Marie McKee and James Hyler. McKee and Hyler, both carry-overs from the Progress board
who supported former Progress CEO Johnson, told North Carolina
regulators they are considering whether to resign.  “That Duke’s board appears to be comprised of two warring
factions, the former Duke and former Progress directors, bodes
ill,” Wynne wrote in his note to Sanford C. Bernstein clients.
“Rogers’ ability to lead the combined companies may also have
been eroded.”  Edward Finley, the commission’s chairman, told Rogers at a
July 10 hearing he had damaged his credibility by not advising
commissioners of the management turmoil as they held their final
deliberations before approving the merger June 29.  The agency is not finished with its investigation, Finley
said after testimony concluded last week. He asked Duke to
appoint a liaison to the commission.  Settlement Possible  The agency’s options include a settlement, order or “no
action,” said Sam Watson, general counsel for the commission,
in an interview after the hearing.  The commission is hiring a consulting firm to aid its
investigation, Watson said. The last time it did so was a decade
ago when it brought in Grant Thornton LLP to audit Duke as part
of a probe of the power company’s accounting.  The outcome of a ratings review by  Standard & Poor’s  may
depend on the investigation, said Dimitri Nikas, a  New York- 
based S&P analyst for Standard & Poor’s, which announced July 13
it may lower its rating on Duke’s debt.  Duke guaranteed regulators the merger would yield $650
million of savings for its North and South Carolina customers
from more efficient operation of its plants within six and a
half years. Analysts expect per-share  profit  excluding some
items will rise to $4.43 next year, the highest since 2006.  Those goals may be more difficult to achieve for a company
grappling with a regulatory investigation and potential
litigation.  “I would say it is having an impact on our ability to gear
up and get some of these things done,” Gray testified at last
week’s hearing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  