-- Tech Startups Making Millions Off the Presidential Race
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-07-23T15:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/tech-startups-making-millions-off-the-presidential-race.html
Four years ago, Michael Beach was
toiling inside the  Republican National Committee , overseeing a
voter-turnout operation that was overrun by President  Barack Obama ’s technology-driven grassroots army.  After the election, he and another former RNC aide, then
both 28 years old, set out to start a high-tech political
consulting company that is now an expanding 50-person operation
with offices in  Virginia  and Boston.  One recent morning, 14 job candidates filed into his
fourth-floor office in Alexandria, Virginia, where a wiffle ball
net is stowed in the lobby and a pirate flag hangs in the
conference room. How many might he hire? “Fourteen, if we like
them all,” he said.  The rapid expansion of Targeted Victory showcases the rise
of a new professional, political class: a core group of young
technology experts who are shunning traditional campaign titles,
starting companies and making millions off the most expensive
presidential campaign in history. They are cutting a path
similar to the one etched by television ad makers in the 1980s,
with a dose of Silicon Valley and the dot-com boom’s edginess.  ‘Huge Market’  “This is a huge market, and companies will keep forming to
try to fill the need,” says Andrew Rasiej, founder of  Personal
Democracy Media , a New York-based group that focuses on the
intersection of technology, politics and civil society. “Every
online technique used by Fortune 500 companies will be in the
hands of politicians in the next four to eight years.”  Federal candidates and super-PACs have spent more than $46
million so far this election cycle for the services of just
three firms -- Targeted Victory and the two major Democratic
tech operations, Blue State Digital and Bully Pulpit
Interactive, according to a Center for Responsive Politics
analysis of Federal Election Commission reports conducted for
Bloomberg News.  Targeted Victory’s roster of 45 clients includes Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  and the super-political
action committee American Crossroads, which was formed with the
help of  Karl Rove , a former political adviser to President
George W. Bush.  Billion-Dollar Investments  Meanwhile, inside the presidential campaigns, 30-somethings
with tech titles are earning six-figure salaries usually
reserved for veteran campaign officials. And two nonpartisan
political software startups have raised more than $14 million in
investment capital just this year. They are Rally, a 23-employee
shop based in  San Francisco  that built an online fundraising
platform, and NationBuilder, a Los Angeles-based firm that
provides campaign organizing tools.  The emerging industry is so young that Rally founder Tom
Serres, at age 30, refers to himself as “over the hill” and
Blue State Digital, founded in 2004, is considered a “senior”
player.  Democratic strategist Joe Trippi, who ran former Vermont
Governor Howard Dean’s 2004 presidential primary campaign and
was the first to use such online tools as meetups to organize
supporters, put it this way:  “When I was growing up in politics, the wisdom was to look
for a 50-year-old mentor. Now, if you’re 50, you should be
looking for an 18-year-old to help you deliver the message in a
way that people will get it.”  Dean Campaign Veterans  Dean’s failed campaign gave birth to Blue State Digital,
which was created by four former campaign aides who’d labored
shoulder-to-shoulder in the cramped Burlington, Vermont
headquarters nine years ago. It specializes in helping
candidates develop digital databases for fundraising and voter
turnout, penetrate social media, and place online advertising.  The firm opened with just one client, America Coming
Together, a nonprofit group funded largely by billionaire
investor  George Soros  to register and mobilize mostly Democratic
voters.  “I had come out of a venture capital background, so I knew
there would be a market for the technology business in
politics,” says Thomas Gensemer, who joined the Dean aides from
America Coming Together about six months into the new company
and is now its managing director.  Game-Changing Client  The firm grew to include  Walmart Watch , a group that tracks
the giant retailer’s employee relations, as an early client. As
the 2008 Democratic presidential primary kicked off, it landed a
game-changing client, then-Senator Obama of Illinois.  Blue State now has 160 employees and five offices,
including an industrial-style loft in  Washington ’s Penn Quarter
that Gensemer personally decorated. Bicycles hang on blue-
painted walls, there’s a rotation of “office dogs” that sit at
their owners’ feet and Fridays are “griddle day,” when
employees make pancakes and waffles.  Plus, “we sort of look like an  Apple (AAPL)  commercial,” says
spokeswoman Katy McKegney, gesturing to the Macbooks and i-gear
that top almost every desk, including ones designed for standers
-- it’s healthier than sitting.  Blue State has reaped more than $4.5 million from federal
candidates this year, including $2.6 million from Obama.
Gensemer says political spending accounts for about 10 percent
of business, while corporate clients include  Ford Motor Co. (F)   Blue State Acquisition  The closely held firm’s prospects attracted  WPP Plc (WPP) , the
world’s largest communications services group, which acquired it
in December 2010 for an undisclosed amount.  Blue State’s “annual revenue has grown in excess of 30
percent per year since its founding in 2004,” WPP said in a
news release at the time.  There’s a cyclical effect in tech spending. Campaigns
including Dean’s and Obama’s have begotten tech firms, which
have begotten digital strategists and firms to work on
campaigns.  Andrew Bleeker led Obama’s 2008 online advertising
strategy. Afterward, he formed Bully Pulpit Interactive, a
company that develops digital marketing strategy and places
online advertisements. Obama’s re-election campaign hired the
firm and has paid Bully Pulpit $25 million to place web ads.  The company gets a percentage of those payments. Bleeker
declined to comment for this article. A person familiar with the
company’s campaign Obama contract said Bully Pulpit’s rate is
less than 7.5 percent, which is what Beach said Targeted Victory
is charging for similar services.  Inside the Campaign  In addition,  Blue State  executives Joe Rospars and Teddy
Goff are now inside the campaign heading Obama’s in-house
digital shop. They oversee more than 100 employees covering a
floor of the Chicago re-election headquarters. The campaign has
paid Goff, its digital director, about $110,000 so far; Rospars,
the campaign’s chief digital strategist, is paid through Blue
State.  Similar employment arrangements exist in the Republican
camp.  In Boston, Zac Moffatt is on leave from  Targeted Victory ,
which he co-founded with Beach, to serve as Romney’s digital
director. Moffatt has earned $158,125 since joining Team Romney
in May 2011, making him one of the campaign’s top-paid
employees.  A new dad, he tosses a box of Huggies diapers into the
trunk of his black Audi hatchback on a June afternoon before
making the walk between Romney’s Boston headquarters and his
company office a few blocks away.  Digital Kingdom  He oversees Romney’s digital kingdom of more than 80
employees, many of whom are in a second-floor office decorated
with oversized bean bags. His assignments include everything
from placing Google search ads to monitoring the campaign’s
messages on Twitter.  Romney’s campaign paid Targeted Victory more than $7
million through the end of June, the latest FEC reports show, to
assist with digital tasks such as online fundraising.  “People ask if we have parity with Obama’s digital team,”
Moffatt says. “We achieved parity the day we got senior staff
shortly after the primaries. The gov puts a premium on this. We
are a core part of this campaign.”  Super-PACs and non-profit groups involved in elections also
are expanding their digital shops.  American Crossroads has paid $167,544 to Targeted Victory
for its services. The firm handles the paid placement of ads and
videos they’d like to reach the eyes of particular groups --
college students in Columbus,  Ohio , for example -- while
Jonathan Collegio, American Crossroads’ spokesman, focuses on
social media strategy.  Bush Webmaster  One of the super-PAC’s companion groups, Crossroads
Generation, which is aimed at younger Republicans, hired Patrick
Ruffini of Washington-based Engage, to develop its presence
online. Ruffini had been President  George W. Bush ’s webmaster.  While most of the new businesses are operating on the
national level, at least one firm is looking down the electoral
ladder.  There are about 500,000 elected offices in the U.S. -- from
president to local school board members. That equals thousands
of potential clients for companies offering digital election
services from fundraising to creating a social media strategy.  Joe Green, who worked for 2004 Democratic presidential
nominee  John Kerry  and was a college roommate of  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
founder  Mark Zuckerberg , formed NationBuilder about a year ago
to offer state and local candidates $50-per-month access to
slick-looking websites and data tools.  ‘Super Useful’  “It’s not that expensive, and it’s super useful, like the
price of a gym membership or a cell phone,” Green says of the
cost. NationBuilder enables customers to set up a website, raise
money online and keep track of supporters and contributors.  The Los Angeles-based company has 30 employees and 900
clients, including  Newark ,  New Jersey , Mayor  Cory Booker  and
Utah Republican Representative  Jason Chaffetz , Green says.  The company announced in March it had raised $6.3 million
in investment funds, led by venture capital firm Andreessen
Horowitz. Green declined to discuss the company’s finances,
saying only that it has “seen enormous growth this year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  