-- Emerging Stocks Drop Most in 8 Months on China Concerns
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-23T22:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/emerging-stocks-drop-to-1-week-low-on-china-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks fell as the
benchmark index posted the biggest drop in eight months amid
renewed concern  Europe ’s debt crisis is worsening and as a
Chinese central bank adviser warned of slowing growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 2.6 percent to 912.47
by 5:30 p.m. in New York, the steepest decline since Nov. 23.
 Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  stock index dropped for a second day, pushed
lower by beef producer JBS SA and  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) , the
country’s second-biggest bank by market value.  China Pacific
Insurance (Group) Co. (2601)  tumbled by a record in Hong Kong as funds
controlled by Carlyle Group LP sought to sell shares in the
company.  Spanish borrowing costs surged to a record high on
speculation more of the country’s regional governments will
follow Valencia in seeking a bailout, increasing concern the
debt crisis in Europe is deepening. The 21 countries in the MSCI
emerging market index send about 30 percent of their exports to
the European Union on average, data compiled by the World Trade
Organization show.  China ’s expansion may cool to 7.4 percent
this quarter, said Song Guoqing, an academic member of the
People’s Bank of China monetary-policy committee.  “People are moving again to risk-off mode due to the
increasing  Spain  borrowing costs, which is a bad sign for
everybody,” said Zoltan Koch at Hamburg-based Warburg Invest,
which manages the equivalent of about $14.5 billion of assets.
“People are just selling risky assets without thinking of
direct effect of Spanish bond yields on emerging market
fundamentals.”  Volatility Soars  The IShares MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, lost 2.6
percent, the most in a month. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
Emerging Markets  ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options
prices on the fund and expectations of price swings, soared 15
percent, the biggest climb since Nov. 25.  Brazil’s benchmark index fell 2.1 percent as JBS declined
7.2 percent to its lowest level since Nov. 11.  Banco Bradesco 
dropped 4.8 percent, its biggest retreat in almost a year.  Spain’s bonds  slumped, sending 10-year yields to a euro-era
high. Yields on the securities rose 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 7.50 percent after climbing to as much as
7.565 percent, the highest since November 1996.  All 10 industry groups on the MSCI Emerging Markets index
dropped today, with financial, materials and energy companies
being the biggest drag. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank 1.3
percent to the lowest close since March 2009. The  BSE India
Sensitive 30 Index (SENSEX)  lost 1.6 percent. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of mainland companies  listed  in  Hong Kong  lost
3.1 percent, the most in two months.  Ruble Slumps  The MSCI developing-nation  gauge  has lost 0.4 percent this
year, compared with a 2.5 percent advance in the MSCI World
Index. Shares in the emerging-markets index are trading at 9.9
times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI World’s
multiple of 12.2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Russia’s ruble and the South African rand led currencies
lower. The ruble tumbled 1.8 percent against the dollar while
the rand fell 2 percent. The  yuan  slid to its weakest in nine
months.  China’s economic growth slowed to 7.6 percent in the three
months ended June, the sixth straight deceleration, as Europe’s
fiscal crisis sapped exports and a crackdown on property
speculation curbed domestic demand. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the
momentum for a recovery isn’t yet in place, according to a July
15 Xinhua News Agency report, and warned two days later that the
labor situation will become more “severe.”  Jiangxi Copper, China Pacific  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358)  fell 4.5 percent in Hong Kong, the most
since May 16, and China Shenhua Energy Co. dropped 2.5 percent.  China Pacific Insurance tumbled 10 percent as Carlyle
Holdings Mauritius Ltd. and Parallel Investors Holdings Ltd.
offered 220 million shares in the Chinese insurer for HK$25.50
($3.29) to HK$26 apiece. The price represents a discount of as
much as 5.2 percent to the stock’s closing price on July 20.  Samsung Electronics Co. led exporters lower, falling 2.4
percent in  Seoul , while  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,  South Korea ’s biggest
carmaker, slid 1.8 percent.  Acer Inc. (2353) , the world’s third-largest
computer maker, fell 1.5 percent in  Taiwan .  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the country’s largest carmaker,
fell 5.9 percent to a one-month low after saying it’s locking
out a factory near  New Delhi , pending the conclusion of a probe
into a deadly riot last week. Company Chairman R.C. Bhargava on
July 21 ruled out an early resumption of the factory, which
accounts for about 40 percent of the company’s manufacturing
capacity, though he didn’t give an estimate as to how long the
stoppage will last.  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  tumbled 4.8 percent in
Bangkok, the most in two months, after saying it plans to raise
about 98 billion baht ($3.1 billion) in the nation’s biggest
equity offering to fund expansion.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 6 basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 358, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net  