-- Emirates NBD Quarterly Profit Drops 13%, Beats Estimates
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-07-23T13:02:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/emirates-nbd-quarterly-profit-drops-13-beats-estimates.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the  United Arab
Emirates ’s biggest bank by assets, reported a 13 percent decline
in second-quarter profit as price competition and lower rates
drove down interest income on loans and costs increased.  Net income fell to 647.5 million dirhams ($176 million), or
10 fils a share, from 744.5 million dirhams, or 12 fils a year
earlier, the lender  said in a statement  today. Net interest
income fell 5 percent to 1.64 billion dirhams, while impairment
provisions fell 3 percent to 954 million dirhams.  The bank’s net interest margin was also hurt as it offered
greater yields to sell new debt. Banks in the second-largest
Arab economy are recovering from a slowdown in lending triggered
by the global financial crisis, which hurt  investment banking 
and led to an increase in bad loans as property prices crashed.  “Lackluster top-line performance” was “the major reason
behind the weakened net income,” Naveed Ahmed, an analyst at
 Kuwait ’s Global Investment House, said by e-mail. “Net interest
income remained bogged down by dropping yields, building
pressure on net interest margin, the effects of which were
partially offset by improvement in loan volume.”  Net income topped the 613 million-dirham median estimate of
four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Emirates NBD, 56 percent owned by Dubai’s government, is
one of the biggest lenders to investment company Dubai Group
LLC, which is in talks to reschedule $6 billion of loans.  Revenue  The  shares  fell 3 percent to 2.62 dirhams at the close in
Dubai today. They have dropped 11 percent this year, while the
 Bloomberg GCC 200 Financial Index (BGCCFINL)  is little changed.  Operating expenses in the quarter rose 8 percent from a
year ago to 894 million dirhams, while non-interest income
climbed 2 percent to 860 million dirhams.  Net interest margin, the difference between what the bank
earns from assets and what it pays out on deposits and
liabilities, fell to 2.28 percent in the second-quarter from
2.63 percent in the preceding three months.  Emirates NBD maintained its net interest margin guidance
for the year of about 2.5 percent “with minor downside risk,”
as retail deposits grow at a “healthy pace,” Chief Financial
Officer Surya Subramanian said in a conference call with
reporters today. The bank has met its fund-raising target for
the year of about $2.5 billion and “future issuances will be
guided by” needs given that the bank can meet liquidity
requirements, he said.  Lending increased 2 percent to 208.2 billion dirhams in
June compared to December, while deposits rose 8 percent to
208.4 billion dirhams. Emirates NBD has raised 8.8 billion
dirhams so far from medium-term debt this year, it said.  The bank’s impaired-loan ratio rose to 14.3 percent in the
second quarter from 14.1 percent at the end of the first.
Emirates NBD expects that ratio to be between 14 percent and 15
percent this year and reach as high as 16 percent in 2013.  “The external environment remains challenging and the bank
maintains its cautious outlook,” Emirates NBD said in its
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  