-- Strauss Backs England to Rebound With No. 1 Ranking at Risk
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-07-24T01:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/england-trails-south-africa-by-75-runs-at-lunch-on-fifth-day.html
England  captain  Andrew Strauss 
backed his team to rebound from its worst Test cricket loss in 2
1/2 years as it seeks to retain the No. 1 ranking.  South Africa  routed England by an innings and 12 runs
yesterday at the Oval in London in the first of three matches
between the teams. The  third-ranked  South Africans would
leapfrog England atop the  International Cricket Council ’s Test
rankings by winning the series.  “I am sure there are lessons for us to learn coming out of
this Test match,” Strauss said at a news conference. “There
have to be and it is important in a three-Test series not to
repeat those mistakes in the next game.”  The second match starts Aug. 2 in Leeds before the series
finale at Lord’s in  London  beginning Aug. 16.  Only three teams in 135 years of elite Tests have come back
from 1-0 down to win a three-match series after losing the
opener by an innings, according to the ICC. England was the last
team to do so, against  Sri Lanka  in 2001.  South Africa paceman  Dale Steyn , the world’s No. 1-ranked
Test bowler, took five wickets yesterday as England was
dismissed for 240 in its second innings on the final day. South
Africa had declared on 637-2 in reply to the home team’s first-
innings 385.  England’s bowlers were made to toil at the Oval as Hashim Amla hit a South African record 311 not out,  Jacques Kallis  made
182 and captain  Graeme Smith  scored 131. It was South Africa’s
first victory in  14 Tests  at the south London venue.  ‘Incredible Achievement’  “It’s certainly an extremely proud moment for all of us,”
said Smith, who will return home for the birth of his first
child before the next match starts. “All credit to our bowlers.
They finished it off on a really good batting wicket. And I must
give credit to Hash, it was an incredible achievement.”  Amla took the man-of-the-match award after becoming the
first South African to score a triple century in Tests.  “I just enjoyed my game and fortunately things fell into
place for me,” Amla said. “Batting is all about hanging in
there and making as many runs as you can and fortunately this
time it went my way.”  England resumed on 102-4 yesterday and Steyn bowled  Ravi Bopara  for 22 to reduce the home team to 177-5 at lunch. Matt
Prior and  Ian Bell  put on 86 runs for the sixth wicket before
Imran Tahir had Prior caught by Kallis for 40.  Steyn then combined with Kallis to remove Bell for 55 and
had Stuart Broad caught behind by AB de Villiers without scoring
to leave England on 210-8.  Steyn took his fifth wicket of the innings as Graeme Swann
was caught by Alviro Petersen for seven, and Tahir wrapped up
the victory by trapping James Anderson leg-before-wicket just
before 4 p.m. Steyn finished with 5-56, while Tahir was 3-63.  “We were outplayed in the last four days of the game, but
I still think we will come back into the series,” Strauss said.
“We have often played our best when we have come off a defeat
and this is a good challenge for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  