-- Merkel’s Right, Greece Should Act Like Bulgaria
-- B y   I l i a n   S c a r l a t o v
-- 2012-07-23T22:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/merkel-s-right-greece-should-act-like-bulgaria.html
Earlier this month, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  cited  Bulgaria  as an exemplar of fiscal
virtue in its response to the financial crisis.  It isn’t every day that Bulgaria, still the poorest country
in the European Union, is held up as a role model. The only way
to understand Merkel’s praise was as a parable for her belief
that countries that spend more than they earn have to go through
a period of harsh austerity if they are to grow sustainably.  To Bulgarians, if not their Greek neighbors, whom Merkel
presumably had in mind as Bulgaria’s pupils, the thinking makes
sense.  Greeks and Bulgarians had a lot in common until relatively
recently. Both spent centuries under Ottoman rule; both fought
for their independence and became poor backwaters of  Europe .
Their paths began to diverge only after World War II, when
Bulgaria was folded into the Soviet bloc and  Greece  remained
part of Western Europe. Once Greece joined the EU -- then called
the European Economic Community -- in 1981, it was showered with
money, as the communists next door stagnated.  Then, in 1989, the Soviet bloc collapsed. A new Bulgarian
democracy was born, but with no money in the state treasury to
pay for it. The nation’s savings were insignificant, shops were
empty, unemployment was high and infrastructure was rudimentary.
Austerity was just a fact of life.  Wiped Out  After seven years of delayed reforms, booming private
businesses and an almost complete lack of regulation,
hyperinflation came to Bulgaria in 1996 and again wiped out the
nation’s savings, forcing the closure of a third of the
country’s banks. As a result, the lev -- Bulgaria’s currency --
was pegged to the deutsche mark (later to the euro), and the
central bank was banned from lending to commercial banks, a
precaution that remains in place today. The  International
Monetary Fund  requires that all Bulgarian currency in
circulation should be fully matched by foreign-exchange
reserves.  The decade of 1989-1999 was harsh, but it turned Bulgaria
into a disciplined nation of savers -- even after the country
joined the EU in 2007. The banking sector is financed by these
 savings accounts , which provide a healthy Tier 1 capital-
adequacy ratio of 15.8 percent. Credit-card penetration is
extremely low -- Bulgarians prefer cash.  Being poor is no fun, of course. Public-sector employees
are badly paid and retired people struggle to survive with their
low pensions. Not a single motorway has been completed to link
one end of Bulgaria with another and only parts of the subway in
the capital, Sofia, work. This is the price to pay for not
spending money that isn’t yours to improve your lot, at the
level of the state and of the individual consumer.  But today Bulgaria has positive economic growth and the
second-lowest state debt in the EU (after Estonia) at 16 percent
of gross domestic product. It also has a manageable  budget
deficit  of about 2 percent of GDP, despite levying a flat
corporate and personal income tax of just 10 percent. Foreign-
exchange reserves amount to 6 percent of GDP. In short, the
country has a future.  Greeks, by contrast, have been spending more than they earn
for the last 20 years. Once an employee entered the public
sector, he couldn’t be laid off; he received 40 days’ vacation
per year; and he was paid 14 months out of 12, with guaranteed
annual raises. Greeks are richer as a result, but that lifestyle
is not sustainable. Debt to GDP is 165 percent and the  budget
deficit  is an unmanageable 9.1 percent.  Overpriced Pies  After the euro was adopted in 2001, the Greek government
failed to control retail prices, which tripled. A traditional
“tiropita,” or cheese pie, used to cost 30 euro cents in
 Athens  back in 2001 -- by 2006, it cost 3 euros. How could this
be possible? In how many places on the planet did a commodity
rise in value by 10 times in this period? Rather than attempt to
control prices, though, the government focused on trying to
boost salaries -- and that meant increased borrowing.  Excessive leverage was also used for infrastructure
projects. Greece’s highways are impeccable; its ports and the
Athens subway are state of the art -- better than  Germany ’s.
Athens was transformed for the  Olympic Games  in 2004. Estimates
of the overall cost of that event range from 6 billion euros
($7.2 billion) to 27 billion euros. It’s obvious to any
macroeconomist that infrastructure on such a grand scale does
not square with Greece’s roughly $300 billion GDP. Most of the
money was borrowed and, as Merkel knows, payday always comes in
the end.  Bulgaria’s example is the only way forward for Greece. It
does mean becoming poorer for now, but unlike Bulgaria in the
1990s, Greece has infrastructure and savings -- an estimated 600
billion euros stashed abroad alone -- to make the process
easier. Austerity should make the Greek government and the
nation more disciplined in their spending habits.  Europe may have mishandled the financial crisis, but for
the past three years Greeks have tried to blame others for the
state of their own economy. Unless they recognize the mistakes
they made on their own, their future path of development will
never be sustainable.  Either those tasty cheese pies need to sell for 30 cents
again on the streets of Athens, or the country will have to
leave the euro area.  (Ilian Scarlatov is the founder and general manager of KBC
Securities in Bulgaria. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  replace Libor  and on
 Europe’s wake-up call ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on what’s next for the
 Arab Spring ; William Pesek on the  price of economic growth  in
 South Korea ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on Obama’s  welfare mistake ; A. Gary
Shilling on higher education’s  broken financing model ; Betsey
Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  sham economics ; Bill Mallon on
 obscure sports  in past Olympics.  To contact the writer of this article:
Ilian Scarlatov at  ilian.scarlatov@kbcsecurities.bg   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  