-- FAA Error Reporting Gives Amnesty for Sleeping, Report Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-07-23T21:46:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/error-reporting-gives-sleeping-controllers-amnesty-report-says.html
A U.S. Federal Aviation
Administration program created for early detection of safety
problems has been used by some air-traffic controllers to escape
punishment for sleeping on duty, a report said.  Controllers have been allowed to report poor personal
conduct rather than the kind of performance problems the program
was intended to find, the Transportation Department inspector
general’s office  said  today.  “The intent of the reporting program is to improve
aviation safety, not to provide amnesty to controllers who like
to watch movies or take a nap while on the job,” said
Representative  John Mica , chairman of the House Transportation
and Infrastructure Committee.  The FAA program, known as Air Traffic Safety Action, was
modeled on successful programs at airlines. It was intended to
discover potential systemic safety risks before they become
serious. The FAA encouraged reporting of performance lapses by
preventing controllers from being punished as retribution for
making reports.  The program shows promise as a tool to promote increased
safety reporting, the inspector general said.  In a small number of the 41,000 reports filed through
December, the FAA allowed employees to report falling asleep,
viewing a personal video player while at their positions and
refusing to take handoffs of responsibility for flights in a
timely manner, making them immune from disciplinary action, the
inspector general said.  Amnesty Perception  “Accepting reports of this nature may lead to the
incorrect perception that ATSAP is an amnesty program where
reports are automatically accepted,” according to the report.  More than 60 percent of the 21,462 U.S. air traffic control
employees who are eligible to make reports have submitted at
least one to the program, the National Air Traffic Controllers
Association said in a statement today.  “The bottom line is that since the beginning of
implementation in 2008, no other safety program has identified
and fixed more local and systemic problems,”  Steve Hansen ,
chairman of the labor union’s safety committee, said in a
statement that didn’t address the criticisms about misuse of the
program.  At least five FAA air traffic controllers were reported to
be sleeping on the job last year. Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood pledged to fire three air traffic controllers caught
sleeping in  Seattle , Miami and Knoxville.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  