-- Europe Heat Wave Wilting Corn Adds to U.S. Drought
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-24T17:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/europe-heat-wave-wilting-corn-adds-to-u-s-drought-commodities.html
Heat waves in southern Europe are
withering the corn crop and reducing yields in a region that
accounts for 16 percent of global exports at a time when U.S.
drought already drove prices to a record.  Temperatures in a band running from eastern Italy across
the  Black Sea region  into Ukraine reached 35 degrees Celsius (95
degrees Fahrenheit) or more this month, about 5 degrees above
normal, U.S. government data show. Corn, now in the pollination
phase that creates kernels, risks damage above 32 degrees, said
Cedric Weber, the head of market analysis at Bourges, France-
based Offre et  Demande Agricole , which advises farmers on sales.  The heat wave in Europe is adding to concern about global
food supplies as U.S. farmers face the worst drought since 1956,
 India  delays sowing because of a late monsoon and Australian
crops endure below-average rainfall. Soybeans and corn rose to
all-time highs yesterday and wheat surged 42 percent since June
1. The  United Nations  says food prices will probably rebound
after falling the most in three years in the second quarter.  “Everyone is looking to the U.S., but clearly in Europe
we’ll need to import a lot of wheat and corn,” said Weber,
whose company advises about 5,000 farmers. “That’s just adding
to the problems we’ve got everywhere.”  Agricultural Commodities  Corn rose 51 percent to $7.775 a bushel on the Chicago
Board of Trade since mid-June, and traded yesterday at an all-
time high of $8. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is predicting a record
$9 a bushel within three months. Wheat was at $9.4725 a bushel
yesterday, the most since August 2008. Soybeans advanced 29
percent to $15.57 a bushel since the start of the year,
reaching an all-time high of $16.915 yesterday.  Agricultural commodities are this year’s four best
performers in the Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 raw
materials, which dropped 2.7 percent. The MSCI All-Country World
 Index (MXWD)  of equities gained 1.1 percent and Treasuries returned 3
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Corn yields in the European Union are forecast to slide 12
percent from last year to an average 6.73 tons per hectare (2.47
acres), down 8.8 percent from a June outlook after hot weather
hurt crops in Italy, Romania and Hungary, the bloc’s crop-
monitoring unit wrote in a report published yesterday. The yield
would be the lowest since 2007, based on USDA data.  IGC Report  Damage from Europe’s heat wave has yet to be reflected in
forecasts by the International Grains Council, which next
reports July 26. The London-based group raised its global corn
harvest estimate by 4 million metric tons to 917 million tons
July 2. While the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut its U.S.
output figure by 12 percent July 11, it raised the forecast for
the European Union by 2.1 percent and left predictions for
Serbia and Ukraine unchanged. It reports again on Aug. 10.  While yields may be falling across southern Europe, crops
in  France  and Germany are doing better. French farmers will
produce 5.8 percent more soft wheat this season, the government
forecast July 9. German farm group Deutscher Raiffeisenverband
e.V. raised its output estimate by 3 percent on July 17. France
was the second-biggest wheat exporter after the U.S. last year,
and Germany ranked seventh, World Trade Organization data show.  “Both in France and Germany, the situation has been very
good,” said  Abdolreza Abbassian , an economist at the United
Nations’ Food & Agriculture Organization in  Rome . “It’s the
only place where things are reasonably predictable right now.”  Near Record  Even after the USDA cut its prediction for domestic corn
output, farmers in the world’s biggest agricultural exporter are
still expected to raise production by 5 percent to 329.5 million
tons, second only to the record in 2010. They started the season
with the most acres since 1937. The department also anticipates
bigger harvests in  Argentina ,  Canada ,  China  and  Mexico .  Global  food  prices tracked by the UN would have to jump 18
percent to match the record set in February 2011 and wheat is
still 36 percent below its all-time high of $13.495 reached
in February 2008. Meat may retreat as higher feed costs spur
farmers to slaughter more animals. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut
its three and six-month estimates for cattle and hog prices by
as much as 20 percent on July 16 and lean-hog futures tumbled 18
percent since July 2 in Chicago.  Southern Europe’s heat wave, heavier-than-normal rainfall
in western Europe and the U.S. drought are linked through the
Arctic jet stream, a fast-moving band of wind used by aircraft
to shorten travel times, according to Gail Martell, the
president of Martell Crop Projections in Whitefish Bay,
 Wisconsin , and  Jim Dale , a senior risk meteorologist at British
Weather Services.  Jet Stream  The jet stream moved north over the U.S. and Canada and
south under Europe, pulling in warm air from  Africa  over
southern Europe. With the hot weather in southern Europe and the
U.S. mixing with cooler air, “you’re likely to see some
fireworks in terms of tornadoes, huge deluges, that sort of
thing,”  High Wycombe , England-based Dale said.  Heat combined with drought during the  flowering  and
pollination phases of corn growth can reduce yields by as much
as 13 percent a day, according to the National Corn Handbook
published by  Purdue University . Europe probably lost 6 million
to 8 million tons of output since June, Weber estimated. The EU
predicted a total harvest of 66.8 million tons at the end of
that month.  Italy’s Weather  In Italy, the EU’s third-largest corn grower as well as its
third-biggest importer, high temperatures and lack of rain
caused flowering and leaf expansion to be “significantly
below” average, according to the EU crop-monitoring unit.  Bulgaria reported its hottest day in a century on July 15.
Romanian Agriculture Minister Daniel Constantin told a
conference in Bucharest on July 20 that the country was facing a
“profound drought” and “pretty big losses” are possible if
rains fail to return. Temperatures may reach 39 degrees Celsius
through July 27, the national weather agency estimates.  Neighboring Serbia has had heat waves throughout June and
July, with temperatures 3.3 to 5 degrees Celsius higher than
usual and below-normal rainfall, according to Republic
Hydrometeorological Service of Serbia, the national weather
service. The corn crop will be 3.5 million to 4 million tons,
from an earlier estimate of 7 million tons, the national grain
association forecast July 17.  Average temperatures in Ukraine have been 2 to 5 degrees
Celsius above normal for three months, the worst in a decade,
according to the country’s Hydrometeorology Center. Hot and dry
weather has been “hammering” the country’s crop in the past
three weeks and yields will probably be 23 percent lower than a
year ago, Agritel, a Paris-based farm adviser with an office in
Kiev, wrote in a report July 13.  Ukraine Production  Ukraine will produce 20.3 million tons of corn this year,
according to Agritel. Ukraine was Europe’s largest corn grower
last season and together with Romania, Hungary, Serbia and
Bulgaria exported 16.3 million tons in 2011, or about 16 percent
of global shipments, according to the WTO and UN.  The 27-nation EU will probably need to import 7.5 million
tons of corn this season, from 6 million tons a year earlier,
Weber said. That would be the second-highest amount according to
USDA data going back 12 years. Record temperatures were set in
21 places last month in  Spain , already the world’s third-biggest
corn importer.  Kazakhstan has an “alarming” drought in grain-growing
areas, Agriculture Minister Muslim Umiryayev was cited by the
Kaztag news agency as saying last week.  Russia’s Grains  Heat and dry weather that may harm crops was reported by
Russia’s Federal Hydrometeorological Center on July 20 in parts
of the Volga, Urals and Western Siberian regions. The government
estimated total grain output of as little as 80 million tons
this season on July 17, having initially predicted 94 million
tons. The country barred all cereal exports in August 2010 for
almost a year as drought seared fields. Ukraine introduced
quotas on shipments in the same year because of drought.  The weakest monsoon rainfall in three years is delaying
sowing of rice, oilseeds and lentils in several parts of India,
Agriculture Secretary Ashish Bahuguna told reporters July 21.
Most of Western Australia, the biggest wheat-growing region, had
below-average  rainfall  from April to June and was exceptionally
dry in July, said  David Jones , the Melbourne-based head of
climate monitoring and prediction at the Bureau of Meteorology.  “With this changing landscape, the pressure is up,” said
Jaime Miralles, a Dublin-based commodity-risk manager at FCStone
Commodity Services (Europe) Ltd., a unit of a company that
handled $75 billion of physical commodities trade last year.
“Focus is very much shifting to the overall balance sheet for
grains. If we continue to see production disappearing, you’re
going to see an additional knock-on effect on prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  