-- Europe Stymies Private Equity as Corporate Buyouts Stall
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-07-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/europe-stymies-private-equity-as-corporate-buyouts-stall.html
The world’s biggest buyout firms
should be feasting in  Europe  right now. Instead, they’re
settling for scraps.  Private-equity  firms have raised $122.4 billion for
corporate takeovers in Europe, more than they had in 2006 amid
the record leveraged-buyout boom, according to London-based
researcher Preqin Ltd. At the same time, the value of announced
private-equity deals in Europe fell 51 percent to $57.2 billion
this year through yesterday from the same period in 2011.  With the region in its third year of crisis, firms have
been stymied by the lack of bank loans needed to make buyouts
profitable for their investors and an unwillingness on the part
of sellers to accept lower-than-expected prices. The slump in
deals is putting to the test a thesis that firms such as  Carlyle
Group LP (CG) ,  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  KKR & Co. (KKR)  have long argued --
that they’re at their best when public markets panic, because
their capital is locked up for about a decade, allowing them to
invest with a long-term perspective.  “A piece of the equation, the leverage, is missing,” said
Antoine Drean, chairman of Triago Europe SA, which advises
private-equity funds. “A lot of this dry powder is going to
vanish,” he said, referring to uninvested capital.  Firms that fail to put the money to work within a given
time, usually five years, may be forced to release clients from
their commitments, resulting in lost fees and making it harder
to raise as much money for new funds.  “Everything in  Spain  is for sale, and yet to buy anything
is very difficult,” said  Tom Barrack , the chairman of Los
Angeles-based Colony Capital LLC and longtime private-equity and
real estate investor. “ Italy  is the same thing. The banking and
corporate structure is at a standstill.”  Five Years  Buyout firms are nonetheless seeking an additional $23.1
billion for investments in Europe, though for smaller funds than
during the boom, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. By
comparison, the firms are seeking $16.8 billion for buyout funds
in  North America .  Blackstone gathered about $16 billion for its sixth
flagship global fund, after getting a record $21.7 billion for
its fifth. Bain Capital Partners LLC is marketing a $6 billion
fund, versus about $10 billion for its last pool.  Private-equity firms’ annual management fees, which usually
range from 1 percent to 2 percent, are calculated as a
percentage of the total commitment; performance fees, or carried
interest, are usually 20 percent of profits from successful
deals. Smaller funds and deals stand to crimp future earnings.  Blackstone and others have responded by expanding other
divisions such as fixed-income investing, making private equity
a smaller portion of the business. At Blackstone, private equity
accounted for about 15 percent of the firm’s  profit in 2011 ,
compared with almost 30 percent in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Fantastic Time’  Buyout executives have told investors they’re skilled at
profiting from economic and market turbulence. They made that
case after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed in 2008 and
they’re repeating it as leaders of the euro region strive to
prevent Italy from requiring a bailout like those in Spain,
Ireland,  Portugal  and Greece.  “This is a fantastic time to make investments,”  William Conway , Carlyle’s co-chief executive officer, said during a May
conference call to discuss the Washington-based firm’s earnings
outlook. “It is precisely in times like this, when economic
data and markets are sending confusing signals, that the best
investments can be made.”  The firm, which began operating in Europe in 1997, is set
to raise its fourth European fund this year. Carlyle declined to
comment on the new fund.  Carlyle’s Deals  Carlyle Europe Partners III, which raised 5.4 billion euros
in 2006, had an annual return of 5 percent through the first
quarter of 2012, the firm said in May. Carlyle has bought three
companies in Europe so far this year.  Marco  De Benedetti , co-head of Carlyle’s European buyout
group, said prices have come down in the region as small and
medium-size corporations struggle to get bank loans. Those
companies are more willing to listen to talk of funding from
private-equity firms, he said.  “Banks are much more cautious,” De Benedetti said, noting
that several have cut staff assigned to financing buyouts.
“There is a credit crunch in Europe for medium and small
companies, which creates opportunities for us.”  That reluctance to lend, while creating opportunities, is
also hurting LBOs.  ‘Difficult’ Financing  “It’s difficult to put deals together from a financing
perspective,” said Tripp Smith, a Blackstone senior managing
director and co-founder of the New York-based firm’s GSO Capital
Partners business. He said he’s seen heavier demand for GSO’s
mezzanine loans, a type of loan that’s typically more expensive
for the borrower than bank debt.  The average interest for leveraged loans used to fund
private-equity firms’ buyouts in Europe has risen to 468 basis
points more than benchmark lending rates this year, as of July
17, from 417 basis points a year earlier, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Uncertainty over the duration and severity of Europe’s
crisis has also hampered deals between buyout firms. Permira
Advisers LLP, a London-based private-equity firm, this month
called off the sale of U.K.-based Iglo Foods Group Ltd. after
receiving bids it deemed too low, and said it has also stopped
exploring ways to pay itself a dividend from its stake in the
fish-stick maker.  Debt Bottleneck  Permira had considered refinancing Iglo’s debt instead of
selling its stake after Blackstone and BC Partners Ltd.
submitted an offer last month that fell short of Permira’s
target, people with knowledge of the talks said at the time.  Vulture funds, designed to snap up unwanted loans and other
assets from banks, have similarly struggled to find deals as the
lenders wait for prices to increase.  The debt-financing bottleneck echoes the bind private-
equity firms found themselves in during the 2008-2009 global
financial crisis, when managers sought ways to invest money
outside traditional deal-making in the U.S.  Last month, KKR provided financing for another firm’s
takeover, EQT Partners AB’s 1.8 billion-euro ($2.2 billion)
purchase of German bandage supplier BSN Medical. KKR’s
contribution came from a $1 billion mezzanine fund raised last
year that has backed leveraged buyouts by firms including
Permira and Boston-based Bain.  Mezzanine Fund  The mezzanine fund, managed by Frederick Goltz, is part of
KKR Asset Management, the San Francisco-based unit run by
William Sonneborn. That unit, known as KAM, also comprises the
hedge-fund business of former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  managing
director  Bob Howard , as well as a group dedicated to special
situations including short-term financing for struggling
companies. KKR is counting on KAM to counter a drop in profits
from leveraged buyouts that extends beyond Europe.  Blackstone, KKR and Carlyle have expanded their non-buyout
units in the past five years. The firms have bulked up teams to
buy distressed debt through the public markets and negotiate
private loans for companies in trouble.  “There’s a huge dislocation because there’s no money, and
in dislocation, there’s the opportunity for tremendous deals,”
said Blackstone’s Smith. “But it’s expensive, and it’s going to
be hard.”  ‘White Knight’  Smith relocated to London from  New York  earlier this year
and oversees a 40-person Blackstone and GSO effort there and in
Dublin. At KKR, Nathaniel Zilkha moved to the London office from
 San Francisco  last year as co-head of the special-situations
group. Eight of the 17 dedicated special-situations investors
are in London now, versus one at the end of 2010, he said. Many
of the deals are far from plain LBOs.  “We’ve been really busy putting capital in the ground,”
Zilkha said in an interview. KKR has about $2 billion to spend
globally on special situations such as the February deal to
finance a U.K. refinery managed by PetroPlus Holdings AG. “We
think of ourselves as white-knight distressed investors. We’re
solving things in a conference room and not a courtroom.”  Businesses outside of corporate buyouts can be less
profitable. At Blackstone, the credit business had a profit
margin of about 36 percent in 2011, less than the 42 percent
delivered by the private-equity group, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shoring Up  The largest buyout firms have said they’re shoring up
current holdings to withstand a potential meltdown spurred by
Greece, Spain and Portugal. Top executives at KKR and the
Carlyle told their investors last month they’ve spent months
pressing the companies they control to refinance and cut costs
ahead of what may be a prolonged downturn in Europe.  “We’ve been trying to get as lean as we can,”  Scott Nuttall , KKR’s head of global capital and asset management, said
at a conference in New York on June 6. A week later, Glenn Youngkin, Carlyle’s chief operating officer, described a
“Herculean” effort to cut costs and refinance his firm’s 33
European holdings.  Still, a few transactions are getting done. Advent
International Corp., based in  Boston , has struck at least three
deals in Europe in the past 12 months, including one in Spain
and another  France . The biggest was Advent’s takeover of
Francois-Charles Oberthur Fiduciaire SA’s smart card unit for
1.15 billion euros announced in August of last year. The
company’s security and identification technology is used in the
mobile telecommunications, payment and transport industries.  Special Situations  Advent also secured 70 percent of the 7 billion euros it’s
targeting for a new fund, a person familiar with the firm said
in June. The firm declined to comment on fundraising.  “One school of thought is to stay out of Europe because
deal volume is down and there’s too much uncertainty,” Advent’s
Fred Wakeman said in an interview last month. “That’s not our
view.”  KKR said on July 6 it offered to buy German coffee-machine
and cutlery maker WMF Wuerttembergische Metallwarenfabrik AG for
586.2 million euros and upped its offer slightly a week later on
the instruction of a financial regulator. Other private-equity
firms had been interested in WMF, which is being sold by Zurich-
based CapVis Equity Partners AG, people familiar with the sale
said in April.  TPG Capital, like some of its competitors, has been
exploring Europe in part through its special situations and real
estate groups, headed by Alan Waxman and Kelvin Davis,
respectively. TPG and Patron Capital Partners together agreed to
buy a portfolio of Dutch non-performing commercial mortgage-
backed securities in April for 358.8 million euros. The handful
of transactions getting done may portend more as Europe heals,
albeit slowly.  “At the moment there is more capital waiting than there
are deals,”  James Coulter , co-founder of TPG, said in an
interview. “Only small pieces of the ultimate opportunities are
currently showing themselves and they are doing so quietly. It
will take patience and time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Kelly in New York at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  