-- Euro Weakens to Lowest Since 2000 Versus Yen on Europe
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-24T21:16:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/euro-near-11-year-low-versus-yen-on-spain-italy-concern.html
The euro slid to the lowest level in
more than 11 years versus the yen as speculation  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis is worsening spurred demand for safety.  The 17-nation currency dropped to the weakest versus the
dollar since June 2010 as a report said Greece may miss debt-
reduction targets. The euro fell for a fifth day against the yen
after Moody’s Investors Service cut its outlook for  Germany  and
the Netherlands yesterday. The yen rose versus all of its 16
most-traded peers on haven demand even as  Japan ’s government
voiced readiness to combat its strength.  “We’re seeing a general retreat from risk,”  Richard Franulovich , a senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking
Corp. in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “A Greece
restructuring brings about the nasty prospect for infighting
between  European Central Bank  and European Union officials about
how to cut that debt load.”  The euro dropped 0.7 percent to 94.31 yen at 5 p.m. New
York time and reached 94.12 yen, the lowest since November 2000.
Its five-day losing streak is the longest since the period ended
May 31. The single currency lost 0.5 percent to $1.2061 and
touched $1.2043, the weakest level since June 2010. The yen rose
0.3 percent to 78.18 per dollar.  The shared currency has slumped 5.6 percent this year, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The yen has
advanced 0.4 percent, and the dollar has gained 2.3 percent.  Franc Parity  Switzerland’s franc weakened, approaching parity with the
dollar for the first time since December 2010. The currency
depreciated 0.5 percent to 99.58 centimes per dollar and was
little changed at 1.2010 per euro.  Spanish bonds dropped, pushing up the 10-year  yield  to a
euro-era record 7.636 percent, above the 7 percent threshold
level for global bailouts of  Greece , Ireland and Portugal. The
yield on similar-maturity Italian bonds climbed to 6.598
percent, the most since Jan. 17.  “We are going to see another bailout for  Spain ,” Adam Myers, a senior foreign-exchange strategist in  London  at Credit
Agricole SA, said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg - The
First Word” with Ken Prewitt. “We’ve reached a point now where
the interest expense is unsustainable at current levels.”  Moody’s said yesterday the increasing likelihood of
collective support for European countries including Spain and
Italy is “adversely” affecting the Aaa credit ratings of
Germany and the Netherlands. It lowered to negative the ratings
outlooks for the two countries and Luxembourg.  ‘Rising Uncertainty’  “The negative outlook for some of the strongest countries
in Europe is troubling, and that got the ball moving as far as
some of the softness we’re seeing,”  Andrew Busch , a global
currency strategist at Bank of Montreal in  Chicago , said in a
telephone interview. “The rating agencies are just reflecting
the rising uncertainty that’s out there on debt costs.”  The euro also weakened as a report showed the region’s
services and manufacturing output shrank for a sixth month in
July. A composite index was unchanged at 46.4 from June, Markit
Economics said in an initial estimate. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  The euro remained lower versus the dollar and yen after
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  and Spanish Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said Spain’s borrowing costs don’t
reflect the strength of its economy and pledged to work toward
deeper integration to fight the debt crisis. They issued a joint
statement after a meeting in Berlin today.  The shared currency has a 30 percent chance of breaking up
by year-end and a 52.6 percent chance of dissolving by the end
of 2013, according to Dublin-based Intrade.com.  Weaker Euro  “Investors are becoming increasingly concerned about their
ability to access markets,”  Jeremy Stretch , head of foreign-
exchange strategy at Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce in
London, said in a telephone interview. “There are lots of
indications that the euro should be weaker.”  Officials of Greece’s troika of international creditors --
the European Commission, the ECB and the  International Monetary
Fund  -- arrived in  Athens  today amid doubts the nation will meet
the commitments attached to its bailout funding.  A report from Reuters citing European Union officials said
Greece was seen missing targets for reducing debt and may
require more restructuring. German Vice Chancellor Philipp
Roesler told the German broadcaster ARD on July 22 it was
unlikely Greece could meet its bailout-program obligations and
that he was “very skeptical” European leaders would be able to
rescue the country.  Relative Strength  The euro may be poised to reverse losses against the yen
and the dollar, a technical indicator showed. The 14-day
relative strength index for the shared currency versus the yen
fell below the 30 level, which indicates an asset may have
fallen too far, too fast, to 26.7. The gauge was at 28.5 for the
euro against the dollar.  The yen advanced even as Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said he was ready to take decisive action on the currency
if needed. The yen’s advance doesn’t reflect the nation’s
economic fundamentals, he told reporters in  Tokyo .  Japan’s unilateral interventions in  currency markets  last
year were successful as they stemmed the currency’s rise against
the dollar, said a Minister of Finance official who requested
anonymity. Japan sold at least 14.3 trillion yen ($183 billion)
in last year’s interventions.  The yen tends to strengthen during periods of financial
turmoil because Japan’s current-account surplus makes it less
reliant on foreign capital.  Aussie Falls  Australia’s dollar fell against its U.S. counterpart as
risk appetite ebbed, erasing a gain of as much as 0.6 percent
that followed an increase in a Chinese manufacturing gauge. The
currency traded at $1.0221, down 0.4 percent, after rising
earlier to $1.0316.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said a preliminary
July reading of their manufacturing gauge for  China  climbed to
49.5 from a final 48.2 for June. China is Australia’s biggest
trading partner.  Mexico’s peso was the worst performer among major
currencies, sinking 0.9 percent to 13.7090 per dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  