-- Europe Stocks Sink Most in Three Months Amid Debt Crisis
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o   a n d   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-07-23T16:13:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/european-stock-futures-decline-on-china-greece-concern.html
European stocks  plunged the most in
three months as concern grew that Greece will default and more
Spanish regions will follow Valencia in seeking a bailout.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and HSBC Holdings Plc contributed the most
to a selloff by a gauge of bank shares.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the
world’s largest mining company, retreated 2.8 percent as a
policy maker in  China  warned of slowing growth. Groupe
Eurotunnel SA slumped 5.8 percent after earnings missed
analysts’ estimates. Royal Philips Electronics NV, the biggest
lighting company, advanced 5 percent as profit increased.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  tumbled 2.5 percent to 251.75
the close of trading, the biggest retreat since April 10. The
benchmark measure had climbed for the last seven weeks, its
longest winning streak in more than six years, as central banks
from Europe to China eased monetary policy to help support
economic growth.  “The market has had a reality check, making it impossible
to justify higher stock prices on so-so company reporting,”
said Henrik Drusebjerg, who helps oversee $230 billion as senior
strategist at Nordea Bank AB in Copenhagen. “Concern over
Greece and the situation in Spain, with Valencia signing up for
a bailout, are part of the reality check -- but investors are
also catching up with a string of bad data from the U.S. last
week and generally disappointing macro news from Europe.”  Short Ban  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets. Greece’s ASE sank 7.1 percent, its biggest
loss since 2008. Spain’s  IBEX 35 (IBEX)  dropped 1.1 percent and Italy’s
FTSE MIB slid 2.8 percent, paring earlier declines of more than
5 percent after the nations’ market regulators introduced short-
selling bans.  Germany’s DAX Index extended declines today after the bans
were announced, as investors sold euro-area stocks outside of
Spain and Italy. The gauge closed 3.2 percent lower.  The troika of Greece’s international creditors -- the
European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  -- will arrive in Athens tomorrow
amid doubts that the country will meet its bailout commitments.
Germany’s Vice Chancellor, Philipp Roesler, said he’s “very
skeptical” that the euro area’s leaders will rescue Greece.  The IMF will stop paying further rescue aid to  Greece ,
making the country’s insolvency in September more likely, Der
Spiegel magazine reported, citing unidentified European Union
officials.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield  climbed 23 basis points to 7.50
percent today, the highest since the euro began in 1999, after
El Pais reported that six Spanish regions may ask for aid from
the central government.  ‘Palliative Care’  “A cacophony of bad news from Europe was released on
Friday and over the weekend as a stark reminder that the  euro
zone  still needs palliative care,” said Jonathan Sudaria, a
trader at Capital Spreads in London.  BNP Paribas,  France’s biggest lender , sank 5.5 percent to
26.96 euros and HSBC, Europe’s largest lender, retreated 3.5
percent to 514.6 pence. National Bank of Greece SA, the
country’s larges lender tumbled 11 percent to 1.10 euros.  Spanish and Italian lenders reversed their losses after
regulators imposed bans on short selling.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ,
Spain’s biggest bank, rose 1 percent to 4.23 euros, erasing a
5.1 percent decline.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  advanced 7.6 percent to 66.5 euro
cents after earlier dropping as much as 9.6 percent.  UniCredit
SpA (UCG)  closed 0.2 percent lower at 2.43 euros, after tumbling as
much as 7.5 percent.  Italy’s market regulator, Consob, introduced a week-long
ban on short selling shares of some banking and insurance
companies because of the “recent performance of stock
markets.” Spain banned short-selling of all shares for three
months.  Mining Companies  A  gauge of commodity producers  in the Stoxx 600 lost 3.4
percent as metal prices fell in London.  BHP Billiton  sank 2.8
percent to 1,765.5 pence.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , a producer of gold
in Russia, retreated 4.1 percent to 383.9 pence.  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the
third-biggest platinum producer, slumped 6.3 percent 663 pence.  China’s economic expansion may cool for a seventh straight
quarter to 7.4 percent in the three months to September, said
Song Guoqing, a member of the monetary-policy committee of the
People’s Bank of China.  A July 27 report may show the  U.S. economy  grew at the
slowest pace in a year in the second quarter. Gross domestic
product rose at a 1.4 percent annual rate after a 1.9 percent
gain in the previous quarter, according to the median forecast
of 70 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Factory orders softened
and new-house sales were little changed, other releases may show
this week.  Eurotunnel Drops  Eurotunnel (GET)  plunged 5.8 percent to 5.92 euros, the largest
decline in 10 months. The company that operates the rail tunnels
beneath the  English Channel  reported first-half earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 205 million
euros. That missed the  average analyst estimate  of 224 million
euros in a Bloomberg survey.  Wereldhave NV (WHA)  plummeted 13 percent to 45.58 euros, the
largest drop since at least 1989. The Dutch real estate company
abandoned its dividend targets for this year and next as Chief
Executive Officer Hans Pars quit.  Philips climbed 5 percent to 17.03 euros, the biggest gain
this year. The company reported an increase in second-quarter
profit as Chief Executive Officer Frans van Houten extended a
savings program into a second year. Ebita rose to 504 million
euros compared with 395 million euros a year earlier, the
company said. Sales of 5.89 billion euros beat the 5.58 billion-
euro average analyst prediction in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  