-- Euro Turns Carry Traders’ Favorite in Worst Year Since 2003
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   Y e   X i e
-- 2012-07-23T16:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/euro-turns-carry-traders-favorite-in-worst-year-since-2003-1-.html
The euro’s strength against the  U.S.
dollar  in the face of the region’s three-year banking and
sovereign-debt crisis masks a nine-year low against other
currencies, suggesting more weakness to come.  The 17-nation currency is at the lowest level since 2003 on
a trade-weighted basis, according to a Deutsche Bank AG index
that includes the yen, pound and Swiss franc. The  European
Central Bank ’s July 5 reduction of its deposit rate to zero
spurred investors to borrow euros to buy higher-yielding assets
elsewhere, generating gains from the carry-trade for the first
time in two years.  Even though the euro has slumped 24 percent from a high of
$1.6038 in July 2008 as the debt crisis threatens to push the
region into recession for a second time in three years, the drop
is only about half the collapse versus  Australia ’s dollar. At
the same time, the euro’s depreciation following ECB President
 Mario Draghi ’s rate cuts is making exports more competitive and
damping concern that the currency union will break up.  “The euro has now joined the ranks of the funding
currencies,”  Ian Stannard , head of European currency strategy
at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in a July 20 telephone
interview. “As far as safe havens are concerned, you can easily
come to the conclusion that there are better alternatives to
holding core European assets, which have negative yields, so you
could see an outflow from Europe developing and the euro coming
under broad pressure.”  Lower Volatility  Buying the Canadian and Australian dollars and the
Colombian peso funded by the euro returned 11.3 percent this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The same trade
funded by the dollar gained 4.6 percent.  The carry trade  returned  3.9 percent this year, reversing a
15 percent loss last year and 2.5 percent decline in 2010, the
UBS AG V24 Carry Index shows. The index rose 13.9 percent in
2009. A decline in exchange-rate fluctuations this year helped
lift the allure of these wagers, as lower volatility reduces the
probability that changes in currency values will erode gains.  A JPMorgan Chase & Co. option index measuring swings in
 global  currencies ended last week at 8.66 percent, after
reaching 8.57 percent on July 19, which was the least since
November 2007. Implied volatility, which the bank’s option index
tracks and is used in models to set option prices, averaged 10.8
percent since 2000.  Euro Tumbles  European policy makers received a vote of no-confidence in
their efforts to stem economic turmoil last week as the euro
fell to its lowest in more than two years against the dollar
following final approval for a bailout of Spanish banks.  The euro extended last week’s decline today, falling as
much as 0.7 percent to $1.2067, the least since June 2010, and
less than the lifetime average of $1.2087. It traded at $1.2136
at 12:51 p.m.  New York  time, down 0.2 percent. Its record low of
82.3 cents was set in 2000. The shared currency weakened to a
more than 11-year low of 94.24 yen, while reaching all-time lows
of 1.16707 versus the Aussie and 1.5156 against  New Zealand ’s
so-called kiwi.  “If the current set of market conditions continue, further
euro underperformance is very likely,” Andrew Cox, a currency
strategist at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a July 16
interview. Citigroup sees the euro weakening to $1.15 in six
months. The median of 52 estimates compiled by Bloomberg is for
it to finish the year at $1.23.  Euro’s Fix  A depreciating euro may soften the region’s recession as
goods of member nations become more attractive. Sales outside
the euro area account for about 60 percent of German exports,
about 50 percent for France and around 42 percent for  Spain ,
based on 2010 data compiled Citigroup.  A “much weaker euro” is the only way to avoid a breakup
of the bloc, David Woo, head of global rates and currencies
research at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in New York and a
former International Monetary Fund economist, said in a July 13
interview. A 20 percent drop versus the greenback would reduce
by almost half Italy’s loss of competitiveness since joining the
euro, Woo estimates. “It’s very clear that a weaker euro will
save the euro in the end.”  Currency options show the risk of a deeper slide in the
euro has declined since European policy makers agreed last month
to relax conditions on emergency loans for Spanish banks and
opened the way to recapitalizing lenders directly with bailout
funds. European finance ministers gave full approval on July 20
to an aid package of as much as 100 billion euros ($121 billion)
for Spain’s banks.  Butterfly Options  Demand for options hedges against extreme moves in the
euro, known as the butterfly, fell this month to a 16-month low.
While the 25-delta risk reversal on one-year options has a 2.1
percentage point premium for puts, which grant the right to sell
the euro, over calls, which allow for purchases. The premium was
almost double that in May.  The  one-  and three-month euro interbank interest rate fell
below their counterparts denominated in dollars this month for
the first time since January 2008. While yields on two-year
German, Austrian, Finnish and Dutch debt dropped below zero amid
the ECB rate cut and as investors are sought investments that
would assure a return of their principal.  The difference between  interest rates  in the euro region
and the seven highest-yielding emerging market currencies,
including the Russian ruble and Polish zloty, is approaching the
widest since at least 2005 after adjusted for volatility,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Go-Ahead Signal’  As well as cutting the central bank’s main refinancing rate
to an all-time low, Draghi reduced its deposit rate to zero to
encourage banks to lend to other institutions, companies or
households instead of parking excess cash in the ECB’s  overnight
deposit facility . About 800 billion euros is on deposit with the
ECB every day.  “The deposit-rate cut is a go-ahead signal,” Adnan Akant,
a managing director at Fischer Francis Trees & Watts Inc. in New
York who helps manage $56 billion, said in a telephone interview
on July 18. Selling the euro is attractive against purchases of
emerging market high-yielding currencies such as the Turkish
lira, Australian and New Zealand dollars, Akant said.  The benchmark rate in Australia is 3.5 percent, compared to
the ECB’s 0.75 percent main refinancing rate. In New Zealand,
whose dollar has gained about 10 percent versus the euro this
year, the central  bank rate  is 2.5 percent. The U.S. has kept
its overnight lending rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008.  Risk Appetite  The euro plunged 6.9 percent versus the Australian dollar
this year, and has lost more than half of its value from its
high of 2.11355 in October 2008.  A deteriorating global economy may hurt the carry trade,
said Gavin Stacey, the Sydney-based chief rate strategist at
Barclays Plc.  “When risk appetite is falling, as it is at the moment,
the carry trade doesn’t seem to be supportive of the currencies
like the Australian dollar,” Stacey said in an interview. “The
carry trade tends to perform well when risk appetite is
improving.”  The euro zone economy will contract 0.3 percent this year,
after growing 1.5 percent in 2011, the IMF in  Washington  said on
July 16. Canada will expand 2.1 percent, while Russia is set to
grow 4 percent.  China’s economy  grew 7.6 percent last quarter,
the slowest pace since the depths of the global financial crisis
in 2009.  Steps this month by central banks to ease monetary
conditions buoyed speculation that global growth would persist.  Monetary Moves  The People’s Bank of  China  joined the ECB on July 5 in
cutting its benchmark rate, while the  Bank of England  raised the
size of its asset-purchases. Two weeks earlier, the  Federal
Reserve  expanded a program lengthening the maturity of bonds it
holds and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  indicated more measures will
be taken if needed.  Standard Chartered  Plc this month purchased emerging market
currencies using euros for its FX Real Money Portfolio, which is
backed by the bank’s own capital and mirrors its strategists’
forecasts. It’s also betting on declines in China’s  renminbi .  “With the ECB cutting its deposit rate to zero, the euro
is now the funding currency of choice,” Callum Henderson, the
global head of currency research at Standard Chartered in
 Singapore , said during an interview on July 17. “European
fundamentals are woeful and continuing to worsen. The ECB has
taken bold and aggressive policy action, but cannot do this
alone. Real structural reform is needed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Zelenko at   lzelenko@bloomberg.net  