-- Ex-Goldman Manager, Ranked Japan’s Best, Avoids Nikkei
-- B y   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o   a n d   S a t o s h i   K a w a n o
-- 2012-07-24T07:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/ex-goldman-manager-ranked-japan-s-best-avoids-nikkei.html
Hideto Fujino, a former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  manager whose independent fund is ranked one of
Japan’s best, is beating peers by buying carparks and women’s
gyms and shunning companies in the  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY) ,
which has lost 80 percent since 1989.  Stocks such as  Park24 Co. (4666)  and women’s fitness-club operator
Koshidaka Holdings Co. have helped Fujino’s 2.3 billion yen
($29.3 million) Hifumi Fund return 31 percent since October
2008, compared with a 23 percent drop on the Nikkei 225 and a 9
percent loss for the  Tokyo  Stock Exchange’s  small shares index .
The mutual fund, which includes eight companies from the Nikkei
225 in its 58-stock portfolio, was named Japan’s best this year
by Rating & Investment Information Inc., the country’s top
rating company.  “Investing in the big Japanese companies is a real gamble
because they are so exposed to the volatile global economy,
especially recently,” said Fujino, 45, chief investment officer
at Rheos Capital Works Inc. in Tokyo. “If you look at small
stocks, you can find a lot of companies where decision-making is
fast and the focus is on long-term growth.”  Smaller companies have been insulated from slumping global
demand and the yen’s two-year, 10 percent climb against the
dollar that has hurt large Japanese manufacturers such as Sony
Corp., he said. While companies on the Nikkei 225 get 27 percent
of their revenue abroad on average, those on the Topix’s small
shares index look overseas for only 10 percent of their sales,
according to Bloomberg data.  TSE2 Index  Members of the Tokyo Stock Exchange’s Second Section Index,
where the average market value of firms is $95.2 million and
shares have returned an average of 9.4 percent this year, report
a mean of 7.4 percent of sales from abroad, the data show.
Shares of Nikkei 225 companies have lost 3.3 percent this year
on average, the data show. The Nikkei 225 dropped 0.2 percent
today, while the smaller-share measure fell 0.3 percent.  Park24, an operator of automated parking lots catering to
as few as one vehicle, is the most heavily weighted stock in
Fujino’s fund. By leasing unused land, including tight spaces
between buildings, the company has amassed almost a half million
parking spaces, taking advantage of  property prices  that have
fallen 57 percent since 1991.  Earnings per share  more than
tripled since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  There were 1.7 million parking places in facilities of 500
square meters (5,380 square feet) or more in  Japan  as of March
2011, according to government data. Park24, whose sites have an
average capacity of 14 cars, said it had 487,000 parking spots
at the end of April.  Not Europe  “The high market share and stable earnings growth
attracted me,” he said. “Besides, the company’s business has
nothing to do with what’s going on in  Europe .”  Fujino said he bought shares of Koshidaka, a founder-run
company valued at 23 billion yen, because membership at its
chain of women’s fitness clubs has doubled in three years to
453,000 in May. The stock has added 21 percent this year,
compared with a 0.6 percent advance on the Nikkei 225.  “If you invest in companies that have decisive leadership,
like ones that are run by founding families, you can beat the
benchmark index,” he said.  Companies led by their founders account for half the  top 10
performers  on the Topix, the country’s broadest stock measure,
in the past five years. These include food-court restaurateur
Toridoll Corp., which more than tripled in value, and online
medical information provider M3 Inc., which is up 134 percent.  Fujino left Goldman Sachs in 2003 to start an advisory
company and five years later opened the  Hifumi Fund (9C31108A) , which he
markets directly to individual investors at seminars and on his
website. He said he was inspired to go out on his own after
meeting more than 5,000 Japanese executives during his 20 years
managing funds.  Hifumi Fund  Hifumi is ranked the second-best performing global value
fund in Japan this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, and has outperformed its peers by 56 percent since it
began in October 2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fujino isn’t the only one profiting by steering clear of
Japan’s biggest companies. Seven of the nation’s top 10
performing domestic long-only equity funds are small- and
medium-cap funds, according to rankings compiled by Bloomberg.  “Big Japanese companies have a hard time adapting to
change,” said Sato Yamato, professor of management at  Keio
University , the nation’s top-ranked private college. “There
aren’t a lot of the strong leaders we need because this is a
culture where the nail that sticks out gets hammered down.”  Olympus Scandal  Former  Olympus Corp. (7733)  President  Michael Woodford  was fired
by the company’s board when he questioned outsized payments to
advisers. The fees were later revealed to be part of a
conspiracy to hide investment losses. The $1.7 billion cover-up
cost the company about half its market value and added to
concern about corporate governance at the country’s biggest
companies.  A scarcity of independent board members and cross
shareholdings among companies placed Japan 35th out of 38
countries, behind Greece and  Indonesia , in a 2009 ranking of
corporate governance by Governance Metrics International.  The biggest corporations are often more interested in
showcasing new technology rather than giving consumers what they
want, Fujino said, offering  Sharp Corp.’s (6753)  tablet computer as an
example. The fact that the device, called the Galapagos, also
serves as a television remote control and a wireless router
hasn’t kept it from ranking 28th in sales behind  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL) 
iPad, according to price comparison site Kakaku.com Inc.  Growth Focus  “These products are full of unnecessary functions,”
Fujino said. “Consumers don’t get excited about them.”  Still, he said investing in Japan’s biggest stocks can work
when money floods into the market, driving rallies. The Nikkei
rose as much as 19 percent at the height of a four-month rally
after the U.S. Federal Reserve introduced its second round of
quantitative easing in November 2010.  Fujino favors companies such as Toyota where founders or
their families still wield enough influence to keep management
focused on long-term growth. Akio Toyoda serves as president of
the automaker his grandfather started in 1937.  Toyota (7203) , which
Toyoda took the reins of in 2009 after it reported a  record
loss , has risen 14 percent this year after dropping 20 percent
in 2011.  “I make profits investing in Japanese companies because I
select stocks based on a simple principle,” Fujino said. “A
company’s share price goes hand in hand with its earnings
growth, not its size or prestige.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net ;
Satoshi Kawano in Tokyo at 
 skawano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  