-- Ex-Merrill Banker Seeks to Resurrect European CMBS: Mortgages
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-07-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/ex-merrill-banker-seeks-to-resurrect-european-cmbs-mortgages.html
Nassar Hussain, a London-based
managing director of Merrill Lynch & Co., was so concerned by
the cheap mortgages being offered to commercial real estate
borrowers in 2007 that he sold his holdings, resigned and moved
to Dubai to work in private equity.  Five years after  Europe ’s property markets and lending
collapsed, Hussain is back in the U.K. capital leading efforts
to revive demand for new commercial mortgage backed securities,
a product he says is essential to revive Europe’s struggling
banks. As chairman of the  Commercial Real Estate Finance Council
Europe  committee on CMBS, he plans to make the debt more
attractive by ending a system where banks get paid even when the
underlying loans default.  “In the last few years, securitization has been a bit of a
negative word,” said Hussain, 44, managing partner at Brookland
Partners LLP, which has advised on 18 billion euros ($22
billion) of real estate debt transactions since he set the
company up in 2009. “Without a liquid and deep  capital markets 
funding base, the problems in the banking market are going to
take significantly longer to overcome,” he said.  Only 210 million pounds ($326 million) of CMBS were
originated in Europe this year compared with $42 billion of 2006
loans that were later rolled into the securities, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The loans six years ago were granted
at a time when cheap financing was pushing up values of
skyscrapers, shopping centers and apartment buildings from
 London  to Berlin.  Difficulty Refinancing  Commercial property owners have 260 billion euros of debt
coming due in Europe this year, according to broker DTZ.
Refinancing will be difficult, with many banks unwilling to
increase lending until they can sell existing loans to meet
regulatory requirements.  Central to Hussain’s proposed CMBS reforms are changes in
so-called Class X notes, through which banks and other lenders
generate income after mortgages are packaged and sold to
investors. Banks and other originators currently continue to
receive payments on the notes even when borrowers default or
have loans restructured, eroding the returns for other
noteholders, the Finance Council said in April 2011.  Under the new guidelines, Class X notes will not continue
to generate a payoff when some loans default, Conor Downey, a
partner specializing in real estate finance at law firm Paul
Hastings, said in an interview in the  City of London  financial
district.  ‘Badly Structured’  “There’s a perception in the market that European CMBS is
a badly structured product and that it doesn’t work in the way
that people had anticipated,” said Downey, who’s also a member
of the Finance Council committee. “It’s unfair because European
CMBS has actually performed well. Losses on European triple A
CMBS are running at less than one percent.”  Still, while relative yields on European commercial
mortgage debt packaged into securities narrowed 135 basis
points, or 1.35 percentage points, this year to 440 basis
points, the spreads are wider than a year ago and more than four
times the level in November 2007, according to JPMorgan Chase &
Co. data.  CMBS deals done before the financial crisis included
provisions that were too complex or vague, Downey said. That
resulted in disputes among bondholders about the returns they
were entitled to when a loan defaulted, hurting the reputation
of the securities.  The new CMBS market principles will be presented today by
the Finance Council at the  Paul Hastings  office in London.
Buyers will be promised increased access to documentation on
properties secured by the loans, both before and after the CMBS
are sold.  ‘Much Simpler’  “The drafting will become much simpler, much clearer”
under the new guidelines, Downey said. “There will be much
better disclosure and much better descriptions of the underlying
documents.”  The new guidelines, known informally as CMBS 2.0, will also
recommend that the arranger provides a cash-flow model for
investors once a deal is closed, which should help increase
trading of the bonds after the securitization is closed, Hussain
said.  Europe’s banks, forced to sell real estate assets to
conform with new regulations, will gain a new way to refinance
debt if the CMBS changes attract buyers, he said. With
securitization markets frozen, banks such as  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  have been buying properties they foreclosed
upon using other units of the bank. They then sell the
properties to investors, often helping the buyer finance the
purchase.  Transforming Liabilities  “Until securitization comes back properly, the
transactions banks are using to fund their loans are really only
transforming their liability from one type to another type,”
Downey said by e-mail,  Convincing insurance companies and other investors to buy
new notes may prove difficult. Four out of five loans packaged
into European commercial mortgage-backed securities maturing in
the first quarter were not repaid on time, Moody’s Investors
Service said in a May 31 report. That’s more than twice the 2009
level.  Those figures don’t show that Class A notes in European
CMBS notes have been largely unaffected by turmoil in real
estate markets, according to Hussain.  Insurers and pension funds may be deterred by proposed
regulatory changes that would make the capital penalty for
buying the highest-rated CMBS notes about eight times higher
than for AAA-rated corporate bonds, said Christian Aufsatz, a
London-based securitization analyst at  Barclays Capital .  ‘Not Bullish’  The investment bank’s research desk is “not bullish on
European securitization new issuance volume, in particular not
CMBS,” Aufsatz said by telephone. He expects insurers to be
interested in buying some new CMBS, “but if you want to issue
20 to 30 billion pounds annually, then it’s doubtful you would
find sufficient demand.”  Sales of CMBS in the U.S. to pension and life insurance
companies has increased thanks to new ratings, “more robust”
underwriting of loans and credit enhancements that reduce the
risk of bondholders’ losses,  Richard Hill , a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based analyst at RBS said in a telephone interview.  More than $13 billion of the new type of CMBS was issued in
the U.S. this year through July 14, he said. Buyers now tend to
be “real money as opposed to fast money,” he said, referring
to the absence of collaterized debt obligation investors in the
market. U.S. CMBS sales in 2007 totaled a record $232 billion.  Insurance companies have bought about 17.7 percent of so-
called CMBS 2.0 and CMBS 3.0 bonds in the U.S. after revisions
were made there, compared with 12.6 percent of the earlier
version of the securities, Hill wrote in an April 11 report.  Europe will need to learn how to convince those same money
managers and insurers to become buyers, Downey said.  “We have a generation of bankers that haven’t had to sell
to pension and life companies,” Downey said. “People have to
develop contacts, figure out what these investors want and
tailor the product to their needs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net . 