-- Texas Instruments Sales, Profit Forecasts Miss Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/texas-instruments-sales-profit-forecasts-miss-estimates.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
maker of analog chips, forecast third-quarter sales and profit
that may miss some analysts’ estimates as an economic slowdown
in Europe crimps demand for electronics.  Profit will be 34 cents to 42 cents a share on revenue of
$3.21 billion to $3.47 billion, the Dallas-based company said
yesterday in a statement. Analysts on average had predicted
earnings of 43 cents on sales of $3.53 billion, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Texas Instruments  earnings  are seen as an indicator of
demand across the broader economy because its chips help power
devices as diverse as fighter aircraft, household smoke
detectors and mobile phones. The traditional increase in
 consumer spending  in the second half of the year may not
materialize as shoppers in  Europe  curb purchases, said Tore Svanberg, an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  “Consumer markets are lower than seasonal,” said
Svanberg. “Anything related to Europe has deteriorated quite
significantly.”  Texas Instruments  shares  were little changed in extended
trading following the announcement. They had earlier fallen 1.6
percent to $26.82 at yesterday’s close in  New York , leaving the
stock down 7.9 percent this year.  Second-quarter net income declined to $446 million, or 38
cents a share, from $672 million, or 56 cents a share, a year
earlier, the company said. Sales dropped 3.6 percent to $3.34
billion.  Customer Orders  After slowing orders in June, customers are giving the
company fewer indications than normal of how they intend to buy
parts in September, making it more difficult for the company to
make forecasts, Chief Financial Officer Kevin March said in a
telephone interview. Concern about how the economy may affect
sales is making clients more likely to rely on last-minute
orders from Texas Instruments’ stockpiles, he said.  “Both our direct customers and the distribution channel
have very, very lean inventory levels right now,” he said.
“We’re probably shipping to end demand. The issue here is a
lack of clarity.”  Texas Instruments sales typically grow about 6 percent in
the third quarter from the preceding three months, March said.
In the second quarter,  Asia  delivered “healthy demand,” with
 Japan  and the U.S. also growing, while Europe declined, he said.  Sales of parts for digital televisions and cars were lower.
Demand for mobile-phone processors also fell, as a couple of the
company’s customers struggled, he said.  Electronics Distributors  Avnet Inc. (AVT) , Arrow Electronics Inc. and WPG Holdings Ltd.,
three of Texas Instruments’ largest customers, are all
distributors of electronic components. They account for more
than 20 percent of the company’s sales, according to supply-
chain data  compiled by Bloomberg .  Texas Instruments was once the biggest maker of digital
signal processors, or DSPs, for mobile phones through its
relationship with Nokia Oyj. The Finnish phonemaker has decided
to diversify by using other suppliers, and Texas Instruments is
exiting the baseband DSP business.  The company is still in the phone market via its OMAP
processors that run programs in smartphones and tablets and it
supplies other chips that provide connectivity to handsets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  