-- Facebook Earnings Call Offers Shot at Rebuilding Image
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-23T13:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/facebook-earnings-call-offers-shot-at-rebuilding-image-after-ipo.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  this week is getting
its first crack as a public company to allay the growth concerns
that have made it the second-worst performing U.S. technology
initial public offering of 2012.  The shares have tumbled 24 percent since Facebook, the
largest social-networking service, held a May 17 IPO marred by
technical glitches and signs that its price was set too high.
Executives, probably including Chief Financial Officer  David Ebersman  and Chief Operating Officer  Sheryl Sandberg , will hold
a conference call July 26 to discuss second-quarter results.  “This call is really critical for this company,” said
Paul Argenti, a  professor  at Dartmouth College’s Tuck School of
Business in Hanover, New Hampshire. “This is going to be an
opportunity for them to really make a difference in terms of
their investor relations strategy and set the record straight.
They need to gain that momentum back and the exuberance that
they lost as a result of the IPO.”  The  call , at 5 p.m.  New York  time, gives management its
first chance since May to make a case that Facebook deserves a
higher price relative to earnings than  98 percent  of the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 . Shareholders will seek assurances that
the company can keep users engaged amid rising competition from
Twitter Inc. and  Google (GOOG)  Inc. and that it can overcome challenges
making money from advertising on mobile devices.  AVG Technologies NV, a maker of security software, has
dropped 33 percent in U.S. trading since it sold shares in an
IPO this year. Facebook fell 2.4 percent to $28.07 at 9:31 a.m.
in New York.  Calling Zuckerberg  Sales probably rose  30 percent  to $1.16 billion in the June
period, according to analyst  predictions  compiled by Bloomberg.
That would be the slowest growth rate yet disclosed by the
company co-founded by  Mark Zuckerberg  in 2004 in a Harvard
University dorm room.  Ebersman will probably be on the call, said Andre Sequin,
an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in New York. It also makes
sense to include Sandberg, who has a reputation for being a
clear, persuasive communicator. Chief Executive Officer
Zuckerberg played a lower profile during pre-IPO marketing
meetings and may opt out of the call, Sequin said.  “He’s made it quite clear he’s much more interested in
running the operation, and spending his time thinking about
product development and the future of the company, than worried
about this side of the process,” said Sequin, who has the
equivalent of a buy  rating  on Facebook.  Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for  Menlo Park , California-
based Facebook, declined to discuss the company’s conference
call plans.  Mobile Strategy  Zuckerberg would provide valuable insight into the
company’s vision and some shareholders will want to hear from
him, said John Palizza, a lecturer at the Jesse H. Jones
Graduate School of Business at  Rice University  in Houston.  “Zuckerberg should show up on the call, not necessarily to
read the income-statement stuff, but to simply come on and make
some strategic remarks, and be available to answer some
strategic questions,” he said. “He should be there to show
he’s engaged, he cares about the investor.”  With so much riding on the earnings, Facebook is probably
spending several days preparing the release and script that will
be read during the call, he said.  “Everybody in the world is going to be listening to this
call,” Palizza said.  Click Rates  Several questions will probably center on the company’s
challenges in mobile advertising. Facebook said in May that
sales growth wasn’t keeping pace with user expansion as more
members accessed the service with mobile phones. Zuckerberg, in
an interview this month at the Allen & Co. conference in  Sun
Valley ,  Idaho , said his hardest job now is figuring out how to
adapt Facebook for mobile devices.  Facebook has had little time to gain traction in mobile
advertising, having just announced its inaugural mobile-
advertising platform in February. Still, a recent report by
Facebook ad service AdParlor said click-through rates on the
mobile ads are 25 times better than on regular ads.  The company has taken other steps to heighten its appeal to
advertisers. It’s testing a service that places ads alongside
search results, and in June unveiled plans to use real-time
bidding for ads on its site, a strategy that Google and other
companies have used to successfully target ads.  While those efforts may spur growth in coming periods,
analysts have curtailed projections for Facebook’s sales and
profit last quarter. Analysts cut second-quarter sales estimates
3.5 percent in the past month,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.
The prediction for per-share profit, excluding some items, fell
10 percent.  ‘Castle’ Talk  “Expectations are muted in general,” said  Brian Wieser ,
an analyst at Pivotal Research Group in New York.  Facebook officials will need to convey confidence without
making promises they can’t keep, said Baruch Lev, a professor at
 New York University Stern School of Business  and  author  of
“Winning Investors Over: Surprising Truths About Honesty,
Earnings Guidance, and Other Ways to Boost Your Stock Price.”  “The worst thing that can be done on a conference call is
to disregard the past -- and just speak about castles in the
air: ‘We expect this. We look forward to a great future,’” said
Lev, who is based in New York. “Just baseless optimism and hype
is the worst thing, particularly when there is uncertainty, like
in the case of Facebook.”  No Rushing  Facebook hasn’t yet told investors how much guidance on
growth metrics to expect. On one end of the spectrum is online
retailer  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , which gives a full-year forecast for sales
and earnings. On the other is Google, which provides no outlook.  Benjamin Schachter , an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA
Inc. in New York, said he’d like Facebook to provide commentary
on sales-growth prospects. That includes potential new ad
platforms and charging for special editions of Facebook.  The company needs to be careful not “to create
expectations that will disappoint,” said Michael Cusumano,
management professor at the  Massachusetts  Institute of
Technology Sloan School of Management in Cambridge,
Massachusetts. “I would be humble, understate what they’ve done
and hope in future quarters they will outperform those
expectations.”  Another pitfall is letting quarter-to-quarter expectations
keep Facebook from managing strategy for the long haul, said
 Kevin Landis , chief investment officer of  San Jose , California-
based Firsthand Capital Management Inc., which has $300 million
under management, including shares of Facebook.  “I would rather see them take their time and get it
right,” Landis said, “rather than seeing them rush and try to
please the analysts community from one quarter to the next.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  