-- Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac Getting Receivership Contingency Plan
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2012-07-23T17:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/fannie-mae-freddie-mac-getting-receivership-contingency-plan.html
The U.S.  regulator  overseeing  Fannie
Mae ,  Freddie Mac  and the  Federal Home Loan Banks  has hired a
consulting firm to create contingency plans for taking the
mortgage-finance firms into receivership, according to contract
documents.  The plan is part of “ordinary regulatory activities” and
does not indicate that the  Federal Housing Finance Agency  intends
to take the companies or the banks into receivership, agency
spokeswoman Denise Dunckel said. Receivership would involve
winding down the companies and selling off their assets.  “This planning activity is routine and does not indicate
any condition of the current status of the regulated entities,”
Dunckel said.  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  have been operating under U.S.
conservatorship since September 2008, when investments in risky
loans pushed them to the brink of insolvency. Under
conservatorship, as opposed to receivership, the two taxpayer-
owned companies continue to operate while having drawn almost
$190 billion in aid from the  U.S. Treasury .  The FHFA in May signed a contract with New York-based
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to “recommend guidelines, procedures
and other protocols the FHFA should have in place prior to
placing any regulated entity into receivership,” according to
the document.  The document said PricewaterhouseCoopers will “develop a
framework for the FHFA to use in building the capacity” to
liquidate Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, or any of the 12 regional
U.S. Home Loan Banks.  Uncertain Future  The fate of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac is in limbo. Private
financing for mortgages evaporated in the aftermath of the 2008
financial crisis, and the two companies now own or guarantee
about 60 percent of residential mortgages. President  Barack
Obama ’s administration and members of Congress called for
shrinking the government role in the housing market, but have
not taken action.  Edward J. DeMarco, acting director of the FHFA, has said
the agency will do what it can to prepare for the future of the
government-sponsored enterprises in the absence of a plan from
Congress and the White House to wind them down or otherwise
reorganize them. The FHFA is working on plans to build a single
platform for securitizing home loans and to set standards for
how those loans are managed.  The FHFA released the PricewaterhouseCoopers contract to
Vern McKinley, a financial consultant working with the
Washington-based legal organization Judicial Watch, in response
to a Freedom of Information Act request.  “Conservatorship is kind of this limbo they’ve been in
since 2008 and receivership would be more aggressive toward
liquidating Fannie and Freddie and putting them out of
business,” said McKinley, who has filed other FOIA requests
with the FHFA seeking to find out why  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie Mac
weren’t dissolved in 2008. “They’ve never taken any steps in
that direction.”  Staff from the FHFA and PricewaterhouseCoopers have met
since May with staff from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to discuss
the receivership plans, the documents show.  PricewaterhouseCoopers will deliver the receivership plans
by Oct. 1 and will be paid $757,000, the contract says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  