-- FDA Ordered to Release Documents Sought by Staff in Spy Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-23T21:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/fda-ordered-to-release-documents-sought-by-staff-in-spy-suit-1-.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  was ordered to turn over documents sought by
current and former employees who claim they were illegally spied
on after reporting improper device approvals to Congress.  U.S. District Judge James Boasberg told the government to
produce 4,000 pages by Aug. 24 and any remaining material by
Sept. 10 after he agreed with the employees’ lawyers that
documents about the agency’s surveillance of staff who worked on
medical devices should be made available quickly.  “What you want to tell the public is why the FDA was doing
this and how they were doing this,” Boasberg said to Stephen
Kohn, one of the employees’ attorneys, during a hearing today in
 Washington .  The researchers filed a civil rights lawsuit in September
accusing FDA officials of spying on staff members who told
lawmakers the agency was improperly approving medical devices
used to screen for cancer. Today’s ruling was in a related case
seeking internal FDA documents through the Freedom of
Information Act.  The allegations include the interception of e-mail from
personal accounts sent across agency networks. About 80,000
pages of intercepted communications were inadvertently made
public on the internet by a government contractor compiling data
for probes into the spying by Congress and the U.S. Office of
Special Counsel, Marian Borum, an assistant U.S. Attorney
representing the Health and Human Services Department, told
Boasberg.  ‘How and Why’  “How and why that was done is being investigated,” Borum
said.  The information the judge ordered released doesn’t include
the documents that already became public.  The monitoring began three years ago after nine FDA
employees signed a letter to  Barack Obama ’s presidential
transition team alleging government misconduct in the approval
of medical devices, including an imaging device used to diagnose
 breast cancer , according to the filing. The surveillance
expanded in 2010 after the  New York  Times published an article
in which FDA scientists criticized the device-approval process.  The lead plaintiff in the civil rights case is Paul Hardy,
a former officer of the U.S. Public Health Service Commissioned
Corps. The other plaintiffs are three former FDA scientists --
Ewa Czerska,  Robert Smith  and Julian Nicholas, and two current
employees, R. Lakshmi Vishnuvajjala and Nancy Wersto.  The Freedom of Information Act case is National
Whistleblower Center v.  Department of Health  and Human Services,
10-cv-02120; the civil rights case is Hardy v. Shuren, 11-01739,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 