-- Almirall Rises After Lung Disease Drug Clears FDA: Madrid Mover
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-07-24T09:32:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/forest-wins-approval-for-drug-to-treat-chronic-lung-disease-1-.html
Almirall SA (ALM)  rose the most in five
months in Madrid trading after it won U.S. approval for a drug
developed with  Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  to help people with a
chronic  lung disease  breathe more easily.  Almirall gained as much as 13 percent, and traded up 11
percent at 6.26 euros as of 11:27 a.m. in Madrid. It was the
biggest gain since Feb. 24.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cleared Tudorza Pressair
for narrowing of the airways associated with chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease, the agency said yesterday in a  statement . The
condition is typically caused by smoking and is the third-
leading cause of death in the U.S.,  according  to the  National
Institutes of Health .  “This is the first respiratory drug to receive first-cycle
approval from the FDA,” Luis de Blas, an analyst at Banesto
Bolsa, wrote in a note to investors today. “Almirall will start
to receive royalties on sales in addition to the milestone
payment due from Forest for approval.”  The twice-daily medicine, known as aclidinium bromide, will
compete with Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s inhaled
Spiriva, both of which are a non-steroidal option to  AstraZeneca
Plc (AZN) ’s Symbicort and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Advair. About 12
million people in the U.S. have been diagnosed with chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease, which results from damage to the
airways and lungs, causing coughing, wheezing and shortness of
breath that becomes worse over time.  Large Market  Glaxo, based in London, is developing a once-daily
treatment with South San Francisco, California-based  Theravance
Inc. (THRX)  Spiriva generated $4.4 billion in revenue last year for
Boehringer, a closely held company based in Ingelheim, Germany.
Tudorza Pressair may generate $267 million in 2016 for New York-
based Forest, according to the  average estimate  of nine analysts
compiled by Bloomberg.  “COPD is a very large market, similar to the way asthma
is, and the market is big enough for multiple players,” Annabel Samimy, an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in New York, said
in a telephone interview before the approval.  Tudorza Pressair is not a rescue therapy to treat sudden
breathing problems and isn’t recommended for people younger than
18, the FDA said. The drug also can cause serious side effects,
including coughing or trouble breathing, eye pressure and
urinary retention.  Forest has the rights to sell the medicine in the U.S.
while Almirall, based in Barcelona, owns rights for the rest of
the world.  Sales forecasts are lower than Spiriva because aclidinium
bromide fills a need for new drugs yet “it’s not the most
efficacious,” Samimy said.  Forest also is studying aclidinium bromide in combination
with formoterol, a long-acting beta agonist that relaxes and
opens air passages in the lungs. Aclidinium bromide inhibits
smooth muscle contraction in the airway, making it easier to
breathe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;  Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  