-- Fukushima Investigators Say More Study Needed on What Went Wrong
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-07-23T04:39:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/fukushima-investigators-say-more-study-needed-on-what-went-wrong.html
Sixteen months after crippled
nuclear reactors poisoned a swath of Fukushima prefecture for
decades to come and forced 160,000 residents to evacuate,
independent investigators can’t agree on just what went wrong.  They do agree more study is needed into the meltdowns at
 Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  reactors after the magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami of March 11, 2011. They differ on how the
twin natural disasters combined to cause the worst nuclear
accident since Chernobyl in 1986.  University of Tokyo engineering professor Yotaro Hatamura’s
team reported today that the quake didn’t cause enough damage to
rupture containment vessels at the Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.
Findings by a group under Kiyoshi Kurokawa, professor emeritus
of the same school, say “man-made” failures led to the
disaster and it can’t be ruled out the quake did more damage to
the plant than believed before it was swamped by the tsunami.  “The government shouldn’t close its accident investigation
into Fukushima with the end of probes by our committee and the
parliamentary commission,” led by Kurokawa, Hatamura’s panel
reported. “When radiation levels fall, detailed on-site
examination inside reactor buildings, including examination of
quake effects, must be carried out.”  Hatamura, who specializes in studies of industrial
accidents caused by design flaws and human error, was appointed
by the government in May last year to lead an investigation that
led to 1,479 hours of hearings with 772 people including former
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan .  Lacks Enthusiasm  The commission’s 448-page final report echoes criticism of
 Tokyo Electric  by others. Besides a failure of disaster
management and risk analysis, the utility lacks “sufficient
enthusiasm to fully investigate the Fukushima disaster and learn
lessons to prevent recurrence even more than one year after the
accident,” it said.  Tepco’s own research showed the plant might be subject to a
tsunami of more than 10 meters. Its executives knew of that
data, the utility said last August, contradicting earlier claims
by former President Masataka Shimizu and other officials that
such a disaster was unforeseeable.  Seismologists warned of tsunami risk along the coasts of
Fukushima and Ibaraki prefectures at government meetings between
2003 and 2006, the Hatamura commission said. Those warnings
weren’t incorporated into disaster planning, instead being
dismissed by bureaucrats who demanded more studies, the
commission said.  Ignoring Warnings  “As scientific knowledge about earthquakes is still
insufficient, we must keep incorporating new findings into
disaster prevention measures,” according to Hatamura’s report.
The government shouldn’t ignore warnings by even a small number
of seismologists, it said.  Tokyo Electric, known as Tepco, has a history of covering
up operation problems at its nuclear plants.  In 2002, Tepco admitted it had falsified repair reports at
nuclear plants for more than two decades. Chairman Hiroshi Araki
and President Nobuya Minami resigned after it was revealed the
company had submitted false data to the regulator on hundreds of
occasions.  Then in 2007, the utility said it had concealed at least
six emergency stoppages at its Fukushima station and a
“critical” reaction at the plant’s No. 3 reactor that lasted
for seven hours.  Over the weekend, a Tepco affiliate  Tokyo Energy & Systems
Inc. (1945)  said it had contracted out work at Fukushima to a company
known as Build-Up, according to Tokyo Energy’s website and a
company official, who declined to be named.  Lead Plates  Build-Up then sent workers into the plant with lead plates
to mask radiation meters, which would allow them to work for
longer periods in potentially dangerous areas contaminated by
radioactivity.  Five workers covered their dosimeters with lead plates in
December after a supervisor at Build-Up ordered it, Tokyo Energy
& Systems said in a statement today, citing its own
investigation.  Tokyo Energy & Systems shares fell as much as 9.2 percent
to 334 yen, the lowest since Oct 2011, on the midday break today
on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Tepco shares declined 0.8 percent
to 129 yen.  Additionally, the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency has
ordered  Japan  Atomic Power Co.,  Kansai Electric  Power Co. and
 Hokuriku Electric Power Co. (9505)  to run additional seismic
investigations at their Tsuruga, Ohi and Shika nuclear plants
this year after scientists said they may be atop active
earthquake faults.  Kansai Electric restarted two reactors this month at its
Ohi plant in Fukui prefecture, about 90 kilometers (56 miles)
northeast of  Osaka . They are the only operating nuclear units in
Japan after the government approved their restart in the face of
anti-nuclear rallies and protest marches by tens of thousands of
people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  