-- Gang Truce Spurs Bond Rally as El Salvador Murders Drop 70%
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o
-- 2012-07-23T15:13:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/gang-truce-spurs-bond-rally-as-el-salvador-murders-tumble-70-.html
A truce between El Salvadoran gangs
that have made the Central American nation among the world’s
most violent is fueling a rally in government debt as President
Mauricio Funes seeks a permanent deal to end the bloodshed.  Yields on  El Salvador ’s dollar bonds have fallen to their
lowest level in almost a year after two of the nation’s largest
criminal groups, Barrio 18 and Mara Salvatrucha, agreed to a
100-day truce on March 9 that has since been extended. The
accord has been praised by Funes and Jose Miguel Insulza,
secretary-general of the  Organization of American States , who
visited gang leaders in prison on July 12.  El Salvador’s dollar bonds due in 2023 have tumbled 55
basis points, or 0.55 percentage point, to 6 percent after gangs
promised to give up some weapons in exchange for better
conditions for imprisoned leaders. Latin American debt yields
fell 23 basis points to 5.74 percent over the same period,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBIG index.  “A reversal in the violence bodes well for the economy,”
said Carl Ross, managing director of investments at Oppenheimer
& Co. in Atlanta. “El Salvadoran bonds are finally getting a
bit of attention again.”  El Salvador’s debt has returned 6.4 percent since the truce
started, compared with 2.2 percent for Costa Rican bonds and 4.9
percent for Panamanian bonds, both maturing in 2020, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold El Salvador
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose 1 basis point to 473 at 10:40
a.m. in  New York , according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG
index.  Murder Rate  The nation of 6.1 million had the second-highest homicide
rate in the world after  Honduras , according to the  United
Nations . The UN’s 2011 Global Study on Homicide estimated there
were 62 murders in El Salvador per 100,000 people, compared with
82 in Honduras and five in the U.S.  Funes outlawed the gangs, which have ties to criminal
groups in the U.S., following a 2010 attack that killed 14
people when a bus was set on fire. Police were empowered to
arrest anyone showing marks of gang membership, such as having a
tattoo. Gang members often put tear drop-shaped tattoos near
their eyes to signify time served in prison or murders avenged.  After the truce began, the average number of daily
homicides dropped 70 percent, from 14 to four, Funes said in a
national address on June 14.  “Gang leaders have begun to demonstrate goodwill that can
contribute to a peaceful society,” Funes said. “The truce has
created a different scenario that allows the government to
consider a national agreement.”  ‘Very Positive’  Morten Groth, who helps oversee $1.8 billion of debt at
 Jyske Bank A/S (JYSK)  in Sikeborg,  Denmark , said he has a neutral
position on El Salvador’s debt, up from underweight in the first
quarter as violence abated.  “The truce is very positive for El Salvador and is
necessary for creating a better growth and reform situation for
the country,” Groth said by e-mail.  Some 27,000 members of Barrio 18 and Mara Salvatrucha roam
the streets of El Salvador, while another 9,000 are behind bars
for extorting businesses, trafficking drugs and other crimes,
the national police estimate.  El Salvador’s economy is dependent on the U.S. both for
trade and remittances sent home from workers. Economic growth
this year will be the slowest in Central America at 2 percent as
the  U.S. economy  struggles to recover, the  International
Monetary Fund  said July 16.  Legal System  Standard & Poor’s rates El Salvador BB-, three levels below
investment grade and the same category as  Vietnam , while Fitch
has the country one step higher at BB.  Security problems and a weak legal system have stymied the
level of foreign investment that other countries with similar
ratings receive, said Santiago Mosquera, an analyst at Fitch.  “El Salvador has a good track record of structural reforms
to promote business, but the major weakness is the rule of
law,” Mosquera said in a phone interview from New York.  Negotiations to end the violence are at a difficult stage,
the OAS’s Insulza said after meeting with gang leaders at a
prison near the capital, San Salvador.  “The advances must be made concrete, and it must be done
promptly,” Insulza said.  The truce could quickly unravel as members squabble over
special deals given to leaders and life-long criminals push for
more concessions, said Douglas Farah, a Senior Fellow at the
International Assessment and Strategy Center in  Washington .  “The gangs are thinking, holy crap, we’ve asked for
something and got it,” said Farah, who interviewed El
Salvadoran gang members last month. “The government is much
more desperate to keep the truce.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  