-- Gates, Sharon Stone, Nancy Pelosi, Jessye Norman in D.C.
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-07-23T15:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/gates-sharon-stone-nancy-pelosi-jessye-norman-in-d-c-.html
“I’m an optimist,” declared Bill
Gates Saturday night at the Kennedy Center. “We will make AIDS
history.”  Gates received the Award of Courage from the Foundation
for AIDS Research at its Together to End AIDS gala, which was
sponsored by  MAC Viva Glam  cosmetics.  The night kicked off the 19th International AIDS
conference, held in the U.S. for the first time since 1990.  Actress  Sharon Stone , Amfar’s global fundraising chairman,
presented Gates with his award.  Wearing a sleek ponytail and beige platform heels, Stone
fought back tears as she praised the Microsoft founder and said
he not only understood the mathematics of computers, but “the
mathematics of humanity.”  The Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation has given more than
$2.5 billion to philanthropies around the world, including
Amfar. He and his wife, who didn’t attend Saturday, have devoted
special attention and resources to the HIV pandemic in  Africa ,
including a $1.4 billion commitment to the  Global Fund to Fight
AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria .  The usually reticent Gates seemed relaxed on the red
carpet, posing for photographs and taking questions from
reporters.  He mentioned that a cousin had died of AIDS complications
in the mid-1980s.  New Infections  During the cocktail hour, he mingled with business leaders
and medical professionals like Dr. Mervyn Silverman, the former
president of Amfar. Silverman said that despite the progress in
awareness and education, there are still about 50,000 new HIV
infections in the U.S. every year.  Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , California Democrat,
Representative Ed Markey, Massachusetts Democrat, and Secretary
of Health and Human Services Kathleen Sebelius were among the
politicos who turned out to salute Gates.  Other guests included singer Eve, actor John Corbett, and
Ralph Lauren model Tyson Beckford in a crisp white blazer.
Designer  Kenneth Cole , Amfar’s chairman of the board, wore a
bright red AIDS-awareness pin.  Pelosi, shimmering in a champagne-colored pantsuit, lauded
President  Barack Obama  for lifting the ban on HIV-infected
visitors to the U.S. in 2010, which allowed the conference to
return to  Washington , the city with the highest HIV-infected
population in the country.  Corbett said he just returned from a motorcycle trip on a
Harley Davidson Road King for the third annual Kiehl’s LifeRide
for Amfar.  Cured of AIDS  Chris Salgardo, president of the cosmetics company Kiehl’s
Since 1851 and another LifeRider, chatted with Timothy Brown,
who has been HIV-free and off antiviral drugs since 2007 when he
underwent a marrow transplant in Berlin. He is often referred to
as the first known cured AIDS patient.  “Thanks for coming out,” said one guest to journalist and
talk-show host  Anderson Cooper , shaking his hand during the
cocktail reception. Cooper recently announced his sexuality.  During dinner, which consisted of panzanella salad, grilled
 hanger steak , and berry cobbler, Jessye Norman sang a stirring
rendition of “You’ll Never Walk Alone.”  Proceeds from the event benefit Amfar and GBC Health.  Belgian Waffles  Friday night Belgian Ambassador Jan Matthysen welcomed more
than 600 guests to his residence in celebration of  Belgium ’s
national day on July 21.  Embassy chef Jan Van Haute served paper cones of frites
drizzled in mayonnaise. Belgian chocolates and bite-sized slices
of Belgian waffles tempted everyone. Bars showcased 17 Belgian
beers.  Former Michigan Governor James Blanchard, now with DLA
Piper LLP, chose wine. He said he had his fill of beer on a
recent trip to Brussels.  Among those present were the Under Secretary of the Army
Joseph Westphal and Walter Cutler, a senior adviser at Trust
Company of the West.  Representing the diplomatic community were  Monaco ’s
Ambassador Gilles Noghes,  Italy ’s Ambassador Claudio Bisogniero,
and Ireland’s Ambassador  Michael Collins .  Guests took advantage of the breezy evening by lingering on
Matthysen’s terrace overlooking an expansive green lawn.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater,  John
Mariani  on wine.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 