-- GDF Said to Plan Sale of Stake in German Gas Storage Unit
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-07-23T14:27:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/gdf-said-to-plan-sale-of-stake-in-german-gas-storage-unit.html
GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA is considering a sale of
a stake in its German natural gas storage facilities as  Europe ’s
biggest utility by market value seeks to pay off debt, according
to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The 40 percent stake in Storengy Deutschland GmbH may
fetch about 500 million euros ($605 million), said the people,
who asked to remain anonymous as the company’s plans are
private. GDF presently owns all of the company.  GDF Suez, based near Paris, is selling assets to help
finance its  takeover  of International Power Plc, which allowed
the company to expand in  Asia  and  Latin America , where demand
for energy is outpacing Europe. A sale of the stake would be a
retreat from  Germany  for GDF Suez, which acquired storage sites
from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  last year.  GDF Suez agreed in January last year to  buy  five
underground gas storage facilities and a stake in a sixth in a
deal that quadrupled its market share in Germany to 10 percent,
according to a statement from the utility at the time. The value
of that transaction, which wasn’t officially disclosed, came to
nearly 1 billion euros, two people familiar with the matter said
then.  GDF Suez Chief Executive Officer Gerard Mestrallet plans to
sell 3 billion euros of assets following the acquisition in
April of the 30 percent it didn’t already own in London-traded
International Power.  Storengy’s Plans  The company “will choose assets with limited contribution
to the bottom line,” Chief Financial Officer Isabelle Kocher
said on an April 16 conference call with analysts.  Storengy Deutschland plans to invest more than 1 billion
euros to add more than 2 billion cubic meters of storage
capacity in the next 10 years, according to its  website .  The sale of a stake in Storengy Deutschland would follow
other deals in which the utility took on partners in businesses
requiring investment. GDF Suez agreed last year to sell a 30
percent stake in its exploration and production unit to China
Investment Corp. for 2.3 billion euros to cut debt and expand in
high-growth markets.  The utility also sold a 25 percent stake in French natural
gas distributor GRTgaz SA to  CNP Assurances (CNP)  SA and state-owned
Caisse des Depots et Consignations for 1.1 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  