-- Geithner Says Extending Tax Cut for Wealthy Irresponsible
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-24T12:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/geithner-says-extending-tax-cut-for-wealthy-irresponsible.html
U.S.  Treasury Secretary   Timothy F. Geithner  said President  Barack Obama  is “absolutely committed”
to letting tax cuts for the wealthiest Americans expire as
scheduled at the end of this year.  “If the president were to say now, ‘I’m prepared to extend
the taxes for the top 2 percent of Americans,’ it’s a deeply
irresponsible thing to do fiscally and economically,” Geithner
said in an interview yesterday on the “Charlie Rose” show
broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television. “It would hurt our
credibility. It would leave us with no capacity to address these
long-term fiscal problems.”  Lawmakers remain deadlocked over long-delayed budget
decisions including the future of the George W. Bush-era income
tax cuts that expire Dec. 31, automatic spending cuts set to
take effect in January and raising the federal debt limit. The
end-of-year tax and budget impasse has led to warnings the U.S.
could careen off a “fiscal cliff” if Congress doesn’t act.  Geithner said it wouldn’t be “responsible” to push back
deadlines including defense sequestration. The cuts are set to
occur because talks failed last year on a bipartisan plan to
curb the nation’s debt.  House Republicans  propose extending the tax cuts for all
income levels and cutting  food stamps , Medicaid, federal
workers’ benefits and other programs to avoid reductions in
defense spending. Democrats are balking, threatening to go over
the fiscal cliff if Republicans don’t allow tax cuts for top
earners to expire.  Obama’s Pledge  Geithner said Obama is “going to stand by” his pledge not
to extend the tax cuts for the wealthy. “He is absolutely
committed to that.”  U.S. Senator  Patty Murray , a Democrat from Washington
state, has said her party will be in a stronger negotiating
position in January if Congress doesn’t reach a deal before year
end on the expiring 2001 and 2003 tax cuts. Her comments are a
sign that the Democrats may be willing to go over the fiscal
cliff of automatic tax increases and spending cuts at the end of
the year if Republicans continue to oppose higher taxes for top
earners.  Geithner said the Obama administration wants to “bring
both sides together after the election, try to negotiate a
carefully designed, balanced mix of tax reforms and spending
saving.”  On  Europe , Geithner said the economic crisis is “going to
be with them for years and years. There is no realistic prospect
of a quick resolution to this.”  Germany’s Contribution  Geithner said German Chancellor Angela Merkel is right to
be concerned that if  Germany  relieves “too much of the
pressure, the incentive for reform will fade and they’ll have
spent a bunch of the taxpayers’ money of Germany without any
real return to make Europe work better.”  The Treasury Secretary said that “if you leave Europe on
the edge of the abyss as your source of leverage, your
strategy’s unlikely to work because you’re going to raise the
ultimate cost of the crisis.” He said that Europe was “burning
because of deep concerns about political will” there.  Geithner said he was “deeply offended” by accusations,
including by  Neil Barofsky , former inspector general of the
Troubled Asset Relief Program, that he has been too sympathetic
to Wall Street banks. Geithner said it’s the result of an
“urban myth” that he worked for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
“rather than as a public servant, which is what I’ve done with
my life.”  ‘Fire Station’  “A lot people thought the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
was a bank, a private bank, rather than the fire station of the
 financial system ,” he said. Geithner was president of the  New
York  Fed for more than five years, including during the 2008
financial crisis.  Geithner reiterated his view that he was aggressive in
expressing concerns about manipulation of the London interbank
offered rate while at the New York Fed in 2008.  “We moved quite quickly to try to get the British to
address it and make sure that we brought it to the attention”
of U.S. regulators, he said.  Barclays Plc was fined a record 290 million pounds ($450
million) for rigging  interest rates  and the scandal cost Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  his job. At least a dozen banks
are being investigated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  