-- Genessee to Buy Fortress’s RailAmerica for $1.39 Billion
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-07-23T17:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/genesee-wyoming-agrees-to-buy-railamerica-for-1-39-billion.html
Genesee & Wyoming Inc. (GWR)  agreed to
purchase  RailAmerica Inc. (RA) , the carrier controlled by  Fortress
Investment Group LLC (FIG) , for $1.39 billion to combine  North
America ’s two largest short-line and regional rail operators.  Genesee, which will pay $27.50 a share cash for
RailAmerica, plans to fund the deal and refinance existing debt
with about $2 billion in new debt and $800 million of equity or
equity-linked securities. It has $2.3 billion in committed debt
financing from  Bank of America Corp.  and $800 million of
committed equity financing from the  Carlyle Group. (CG)   The purchase price is almost 11 percent more than the July
20 closing price and almost 28 percent higher than the stock
price on May 21, the last trading day before RailAmerica said it
was exploring a possible sale, Genesee said.  “It certainly is a bigger transaction than we’ve seen
Genesee engage in, but they were able to get attractive
financing and they were able to refinance some of their existing
debt,” Allison Landry, a New York-based analyst at Credit
Suisse, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t see this as
them over-levering to do this transaction.”  The soonest the deal would close is in the fourth quarter
of 2012, subject to approval by the U.S. Surface Transportation
Board, Genesee executives said on a conference call today.  “We’ve considered doing something like this for a long
time,” Chief Executive Officer Jack Hellmann said on the call.
RailAmerica “has been transformed over the past five, six
years. We are much more comfortable with it.”  Deal Valuation  After the purchase, Genesee will have 111 railroads, 108 of
them in North America, and 4,300 employees.  Including net debt, Genesee is paying about 10.5 times
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The median buyers paid
in a survey of 10 similar deals over the past decade was about 9
times ebitda.  The largest rail takeover over in that period was  Warren
Buffett ’s acquisition of Burlington Northern  Santa Fe  Corp. for
about $26 billion in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  RailAmerica climbed 9.9 percent to $27.27 at 1:01 p.m. in
New York, the biggest intraday increase since May 22. Genesee
gained 0.1 percent to $56.06. The acquirer’s shares previously
fell 7.6 percent this year.  Fortress Takeover  RailAmerica was taken private in February 2007 by Fortress,
which paid $658 million, excluding net debt. The New York-based
investment firm, which hired new management while initiating
cost cuts at RailAmerica, then took the company public again in
October 2009. Fortress held a  60 percent stake  in RailAmerica as
of March 31, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The U.S. rail industry’s deregulation in the 1980s buoyed
short lines as major carriers such as  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  opted
to let smaller companies handle traffic on less-traveled routes.  RailAmerica is working to reduce its ratio of expenses to
sales, a benchmark for railroads, to as low as 77 percent this
year, versus the 89 percent operating ratio it had in 2006
before Fortress took it private.  The measure was about 78 percent last year, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. That compares with an average operating ratio
for companies in the Bloomberg Industries North American Rail
Freight Transportation Index of about 73 percent, the data show.  Bank of America provided financial advice to Genesee, while
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, Steptoe & Johnson LLP and Thorpe
Reed & Armstrong LLP acted as legal advisers.  Deutsche Bank AG worked as Rail America’s financial adviser
and prepared a fairness opinion for its shareholders. Skadden
Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP and Sidley & Austin provided legal
counsel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  