-- Spanish Yield Reaches Euro-Era Record on Regional Concern
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-07-23T16:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/german-bonds-rise-on-debt-crisis-as-spanish-yield-reaches-record.html
Spain’s bonds  slumped, with 10-year
yields rising to a euro-era high, on speculation more regions
will follow Valencia in asking for financial aid, increasing
concern the country will need a sovereign bailout.  Germany ’s bonds outperformed their euro-area peers, with
two- and five-year yields reaching record lows, as Der Spiegel
magazine reported the  International Monetary Fund  will stop
paying rescue funds to  Greece , citing unidentified European
Union officials.  Italy ’s 10-year yield climbed to a six-month
high and Greek bonds tumbled. German 30-year bunds are forming a
bubble, according to  Carl Weinberg , founder and chief economist
of High Frequency Economics.  “The probable bailouts of some Spanish regions is weighing
on markets and pushing up yields,” said Craig Veysey, head of
fixed income at Principal Investment Management Ltd. in London,
part of Sanlam Group, which manages $72 billion. “There is
concern that Spain might be looking for a sovereign bailout
sooner rather than later as a result of having to bail out the
regions. Yields at current levels aren’t viable.”  Spain’s 10-year yield rose 23 basis points, or 0.23
percentage point, to 7.50 percent as of 5 p.m. in London after
climbing to 7.565 percent, the highest since November 1996. The
5.85 percent bond due in January 2022 dropped 1.435 or 14.35
euros per 1,000-euro ($1,208) face amount, to 89.015. The yield
jumped 60 basis points last week.  The extra yield investors demand to hold  Spain ’s 10-year
debt over similar-maturity bunds widened as much as 33 basis
points to a record 643 basis points.  Six Regions  Catalonia, Castilla-La-Mancha, Murcia, the  Canary Islands ,
the Balearic Islands are among six Spanish regions that have
said they may ask for aid from the central government after
Valencia sought a bailout on July 20, Spanish newspaper El Pais
reported. Regions need 26.4 billion euros to redeem bonds due
this year and finance deficits, a separate report in El Mundo
said, citing a budget ministry document. Spain has 17 regions.  Spanish bonds also declined after central bank estimates
showed the euro area’s fourth-largest economy shrank 0.4 percent
in the second quarter from the previous three months.  Spanish two-year  yield  climbed 77 basis points to 6.53
percent after surging as much as 99 basis points, the biggest
intraday gain in the euro era.  “Spain would need a bailout if yields stay where they are
for another couple of months,” Georg Grodzki, head of credit
research at Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. in
London, which manages $596 billion of assets, said in an
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with
 Francine Lacqua . Italy would then be “an open target for the
next wave of attacks,” he said.  Yields Surge  The difference between the bid and ask yields on 10-year
Spanish bonds, an indicator of market liquidity, widened to as
much as 15 basis points, the most in at least 30 trading days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bid-offer spread
was six basis points as recently as July 5.  Volatility on Spanish bonds was the highest in developed
markets today followed by Italy, according to measures of 10-
year debt, the spread between two- and 10-year securities and
credit-default swaps.  The cost of insuring Spanish debt jumped as much as 31
basis points to a record 636, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Negative Yields  Germany’s 10-year yield  fell as low as 1.127 percent,
matching the June 1 record, before being little changed at 1.18
percent. The two-year yield was at minus 0.06 percent, below
zero for a 12th straight day, after declining to a record minus
0.080 percent.  Yields less than zero mean investors who hold the debt to
maturity will receive less than they paid to buy them.  German 30-year yields climbed two basis points to 2.08
percent, compared to their decade average of 4.05 percent.  “Germany is not safe,” High Frequency’s Weinberg said in
an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen. “They’re on the hook for 27.3 percent of
the cost of fixing everything in  Europe . If Europe folds,
Germany goes with it.” The 30-year bonds are in a “huge
bubble,” said Weinberg, who is based in Valhalla, New York.  Greek bonds dropped as the nation’s creditors prepared to
assess how far off course the country is from bailout targets.  The yield on Greece’s 2 percent bond due in February 2023
jumped 199 basis points to 27.57 percent. The price dropped to
16.21 percent of face value. The so-called troika of Greece’s
international lenders arrives in Athens tomorrow.  German Parliament  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  won’t ask the German
parliament to approve additional aid for Greece,  Sueddeutsche
Zeitung  reported, citing government officials it didn’t name.  Italy’s bonds slumped. The 10-year yield climbed 17 basis
points to 6.34 percent after reaching 6.43 percent, the highest
since Jan. 19.  Yields on  government securities  in  Finland , the
Netherlands,  Norway ,  Sweden , Switzerland, and the U.K. all fell
to records as investors sought the safest fixed-income assets.
U.S. Treasury five-, 10- and 30-year yields also slid to all-
time lows.  The euro weakened below $1.21 for the first time since June
2010, and fell below its lifetime average of $1.2087. A gauge of
European  bank stocks  dropped 2.7 percent.  Debt Turmoil  Germany sold 2.7 billion euros of 12-month bills at a yield
of minus 0.054 percent, and  France  also auctioned short-maturity
securities.  French borrowing costs may increase if the region’s debt
turmoil worsens, according to Myles Bradshaw, executive vice
president and  money manager  at Pacific Investment Management Co.
in London.  “At the moment, investors are happy to take risk in
France, Belgium and Austria,” he said on Bloomberg Television’s
“The Pulse” with  Guy Johnson . “The fundamentals in France are
not perfect, they have a lot of fiscal adjustment to make and
you don’t get a lot of  risk premium  for those risks. If the
crisis intensifies then increasingly you will see the semi-core
of Europe coming under pressure.”  German debt returned 4.6 percent this year through July 20,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish securities
lost 7.6 percent, and Italy’s debt rose 6.8 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  