-- Germany Pushes Back After Moody’s Lowers Rating Outlook
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-07-24T11:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/germany-netherlands-rating-outlooks-cut-to-negative-by-moody-s.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government said  Germany  will remain  Europe ’s haven during the
financial crisis, pushing back against Moody’s Investors
Service’s decision to lower the outlook on the country’s top
credit rating.  The risks in the  euro zone  are “not new” and Germany
remains “in a very sound economic and financial situation,”
the  Finance Ministry  said. In counterpoint to Moody’s, it cited
the verdict of financial markets that have rewarded Germany with
record low borrowing costs.  “Germany will, through solid economic and financial
policy, defend its ‘safe haven’ status and continue to
responsibly maintain its anchor role in the euro zone,” the
Berlin-based ministry said in an e-mailed statement. “Together
with its partners, it will do everything to overcome the
sovereign debt crisis as rapidly as possible.”  Euro-area bonds fell today after Moody’s lowered the
outlook to negative for the Aaa credit ratings of Germany, the
Netherlands and Luxembourg. Moody’s cited “rising uncertainty”
over Europe’s debt crisis. It left  Finland  as the only country
in the 17-nation euro region with a stable outlook for its top
ranking.  Yields Rise  German 10-year government bond yields advanced 6 basis
points to 1.23 percent at 12:22 p.m. Berlin time, while
equivalent Dutch yields climbed 8 basis points to 1.70 percent.
Credit-default swaps on Germany were little changed at 83 basis
points, the highest since July 13, according to Bloomberg data.  Spanish 10-year yields rose to a euro-era record of 7.569
percent before falling back to 7.53 percent as Economy Minister
Luis de Guindos prepared to meet with German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  in Berlin later today. No press conference is
planned.  Germany, as Europe’s biggest economy and the dominant
nation in almost three years of crisis fighting, is under
pressure to do more to stem the turmoil as borrowing costs rise
in Italy and Spain and  Greece  strives to identify yet more
budget cuts to satisfy the terms of its international bailout.  Moody’s said risks Greece may leave the euro and an
“increasing likelihood” of collective support for countries
such as Spain and Italy were among the reasons for its decision.  “Given the greater ability to absorb the costs associated
with this support, this burden will likely fall most heavily on
more highly rated member states if the euro area is to be
preserved in its current form,” Moody’s said.  ‘Sound Fundamentals’  Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers, said that Germany, the Netherlands
and Luxembourg continue to enjoy “sound fundamentals.” He
reiterated a “strong commitment to ensure the stability of the
euro area as a whole,” according to an e-mailed statement.  The Netherlands never comments on rating companies, Niels
Redeker, a spokesman of the Dutch Finance Ministry, said in a
text message.  German government debt has benefited as investors seek
safety during the financial crisis that emerged in Greece in
late 2009. Germany’s 10-year yield matched its June 1 record low
of 1.127 percent yesterday, while the two-year note yield was at
minus 0.045 percent, meaning that investors holding the debt to
maturity will receive less than they paid for it.  “If even Germany loses the highest rating, then the
second-highest rating becomes the best one,”  Norbert Barthle ,
the budget spokesman in parliament for Merkel’s Christian
Democratic bloc, said in an interview. “All the agencies do is
compare. It’s not that worrying.”  All the same, “it can’t be ruled out” that the downgrade
will damp lawmaker appetite to approve aid for cash-strapped
euro members, he said.  Crisis Strategy  While the flight to safety means Germany’s cost of
borrowing is unlikely to rise, the Moody’s outlook change may
curtail Merkel’s crisis-fighting strategy, said  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .  “Opposition to additional commitments for rescue measures
is likely to strengthen,” Schulz said. “The downgrade is thus
likely worse news for the euro-zone periphery than for the Aaa-
countries themselves.”  Almost half the time, yields on  government bonds  fall when
a rating action by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s suggests they
should climb, according to data compiled by Bloomberg on 314
upgrades, downgrades and outlook changes going back as far as
the 1970s.  Grades Stripped  After S&P stripped  France  and the U.S. of AAA grades,
 interest rates  paid by the countries to finance their deficits
dropped rather than rose. The U.S. 10-year Treasury yield
yesterday fell as low as a record 1.3960 percent. That compares
with an average of 3.76 percent over the past 10 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “In all large industrialized countries, AAA is an
endangered species,” Commerzbank AG Chief Economist  Joerg Kraemer  said today on Deutschlandfunk public radio. “They’re
all under fire.”  Fitch Ratings  issued its first rating for Germany in August
1994 and it was AAA, Christian Giesen, a spokesman for Fitch in
 Frankfurt , said today. Outlooks have been around since 2000 and
Germany’s has always been stable, he said.  S&P has had a AAA stable rating on Germany since August
1983, with the exception of Dec. 5, 2011, to Jan. 13, 2012, when
Germany was among a group of euro states put on credit watch.
S&P declined to comment on whether it will follow Moody’s.  Merkel’s Conviction  In January, when S&P downgraded nine euro states, leaving
Germany as the only euro country with a stable AAA rating,
Merkel said the decision “confirms my conviction” that
austerity is needed.  Moody’s “shines the spotlight” on an important premise
for all euro rescues,  Otto Fricke , the budget spokesman for
Merkel’s Free Democratic coalition partner, said in an
interview.  “Germany can only stay on the top of the heap if the
countries we’re giving aid to conduct economic reforms and make
an effort,” he said. Moody’s rating action “is more helpful
than harmful because it’s a warning to other European countries
that the limits of what Germany can do will be reached
eventually.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  