-- Gevo Falls on Patent Office Review of Biofuel Technology
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-07-23T20:46:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/gevo-falls-on-patent-office-review-of-biofuel-technology.html
Gevo Inc. (GEVO) , the U.S. biotechnology
company backed by the French oil company  Total SA (FP)  and the
specialty-chemicals maker  Lanxess AG (LXS) , fell after the government
agreed to review one of its patents.  Gevo declined 1.6 percent to $4.43 at the close in New
York. Earlier, it fell to $4.08, the lowest since its February
2011 initial public offering. Shares have fallen 30 percent this
year.  The U.S. Patent Office today will review all 156 claims in
Gevo’s “GIFT” Patent No. 8,101,808, in response to a request
from Butamax Advanced Biofuels LLC, a joint venture of  DuPont
Co. (DD)  and  BP Plc (BP/) , according to a statement today. Butamax sued
Gevo in 2011 alleging misuse of technology for genetically
engineered microorganisms used to produce biofuels.  “Re-examinations are part of the normal course of a patent
dispute, especially when dealing with valuable technology,”
Brett Lund, Gevo’s general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement. “This re-examination does not validate patent
applications of Butamax or anyone else.”  In a preliminary review, the patent office rejected the
claims. The agency often issues rejections in the first round of
a review, and Gevo has the chance to respond to the rejection.
The patent remains valid and enforceable throughout the review
process.  Gevo, based in Englewood,  Colorado , is involved in several
patent  lawsuits  with Wilmington, Delaware-based Butamax.  Gevo makes isobutanol from corn and non-food crops.
Isobutanol may be blended with gasoline or refined into jet
fuel, specialty chemicals or other products that are typically
derived from petroleum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  