-- Gillard’s Labor Loses Support After Australia Carbon Tax Enacted
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-07-24T02:40:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/gillard-s-labor-flounders-in-poll-as-voters-ignore-tax-handouts.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s administration saw public support fall as it
implemented taxes on carbon output and mining that stirred
opposition from business leaders.  The  Labor party  was favored by 28 percent in a Newspoll
survey published in the Australian newspaper today, down 3
percentage points from two weeks ago, compared with 46 percent
for the Liberal-National coalition. Taking second-preference
votes into account, Labor was 12 points behind the opposition.  The results signal that Gillard’s budget strategy of
boosting aid to lower- and middle-income families has failed to
pay off amid rising unemployment and a drop in business
confidence. While Gillard’s match-up with Liberal-National chief
 Tony Abbott  is more competitive than her party’s, the persistent
gap risks reviving challenges to her leadership.  “The primary vote for Gillard is diabolical and her party
looks to have no chance of winning the next election,” said
Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst at  Monash University  in
 Melbourne . “Labor was promising they’d bounce back after voters
saw the carbon tax in action but voters just aren’t interested
anymore and have stopped listening. A new leader may not help
but it’s probably the party’s only option.”  The poll is the first time Labor’s primary vote has fallen
below 30 percent since April 27-29. It reached a  record low  of
26 percent in September.  Trailing Abbott  Gillard,  Australia ’s first female prime minister, trails
Abbott by 4 percentage points as the nation’s preferred leader
ahead of elections that must be held by November 2013, according
to the Newspoll survey. The poll of 1,158 people, conducted July
20-22, had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage
points.  “Government is about getting the hard things done that set
our nation up for the future,” Gillard told reporters in Sydney
today. “You can’t be obsessed by opinion polls. The poll that
matters is election day in 2013.” She will be Labor’s leader at
that election, she said.  After the closest election in seven decades, Gillard put
together a minority government in September 2010 with support
from independents and Greens. She backtracked on a promise not
to tax  carbon emissions , implementing the levy on July 1 along
with new taxes on  iron ore  and coal mining profits. Abbott has
vowed to repeal the laws should he win power.  Low Support  In a separate survey released today by the Climate
Institute, 28 percent said they supported Gillard’s climate
pricing legislation, with 52 percent disagreeing and 20 percent
uncertain. Support for Abbott’s coalition to repeal the
legislation was at 48 percent, it showed.  The poll’s quantitative research element was conducted by
the Ipsos Social Research Institute from 1,131 Australians
participating online on May 23-30, with no margin of error
provided. The Climate Institute describes itself as an
independent research organization funded by philanthropy seeking
a zero-carbon global economy.  Since defeating predecessor  Kevin Rudd  in a leadership
ballot in February, Gillard’s government has been weakened by
lawmaker scandals that have eroded Labor’s control of
parliament.  Speculation that Rudd would mount a new challenge have
resurfaced after the Australian Financial Review reported
yesterday the head of the union movement, Ged Kearney, had
discussed the possibility at a recent meeting.  “Populism matters in politics and no matter what political
party you’re talking about, if leaders remain unpopular long
enough, they’ll inevitably stop leading the party,” Labor’s
whip, Joel Fitzgibbon, said in a July 16 Australian Broadcasting
Corp. television program, according to a transcript.  Less Optimistic  Gillard said in a July 15 speech she will contest next
year’s federal election on her record of economic management.
The government unveiled a budget on May 8 that aims to return to
a surplus next year and scrapped a planned cut in company taxes
to fund payouts for low- and middle-income earners.  Australian businesses grew less optimistic about near-term
prospects, signaling a slowdown in the fastest-growing developed
economy, a  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  survey released July 19
showed. The business conditions index for the next three months
dropped to 5, the lowest reading since the second quarter of
2009.  Gillard may have won a reprieve from an imminent leadership
challenge after  results showed  Labor winning the seat of
Melbourne in a Victoria state government by-election held at the
weekend. Labor candidate Jennifer Kanis leads the two-party
preferred vote with 51.4 percent, with Greens candidate Cathy
Oke on 48.6 percent. The Liberal-National coalition didn’t
contest the seat.  “Admittedly the polls are hard for us,” Employment
Minister  Bill Shorten  said in an Australian Broadcasting Corp.
television interview yesterday. “Whilst it’s always good to be
popular, I think what people want is tough leaders for the
times.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  