-- Goldman Sachs Sees ‘Strong’ Recovery Starting for Housing
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-07-23T20:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/goldman-sachs-sees-strong-recovery-starting-for-housing.html
U.S. homebuilders are an attractive
investment as the housing market starts a “strong” recovery
that may drive a surge in new-home sales,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  said in a report today.  Housing has a “long list of positives,” including rising
 prices , job growth, supportive government policies and a decline
in the so-called shadow inventory of homes, Goldman Sachs
analysts Joshua Pollard and Anto Savarirajan wrote in a note to
clients. They raised their rating on the homebuilding industry
to attractive from neutral.  Public homebuilders, which have been taking market share
from closely held companies, reported increasing orders this
year as  mortgage rates  fell to record lows and the  supply  of
existing homes for sale shrank. Construction of single-family
 houses  rose 4.7 percent in June to a 539,000 annual rate, the
fastest in two years, the Commerce Department said last week.  “The super cyclical housing market has turned and a strong
recovery in new-home sales is ahead,” the Goldman Sachs
analysts wrote. “Over the last year a number of risks to the
housing market have abated, giving us confidence that rising
 home prices  will drive a 3-7 year up-cycle in the U.S. market.”  Pollard and Savarirajan added  MDC Holdings Inc. (MDC)  to its
conviction buy list, raised  KB Home (KBH)  to buy from neutral,
increased  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL)  to neutral from sell and lowered  NVR
Inc. (NVR)  to sell from neutral. They maintained buy ratings on  Toll
Brothers Inc. (TOL)  and  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM)   Stocks Gain  MDC Holdings jumped 5.7 percent, the most since February,
to $33.18 in New York trading. KB Home climbed 3.6 percent to
$10.16, while Ryland added 3.5 percent to $26.64.  The 13-member Bloomberg Industries homebuilder  index 
reversed earlier losses and increased 1.1 percent. The measure
has rallied 55 percent this year, compared with a 7.4 percent
gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The  U.S. economy  has created enough jobs since the end of
the recession in 2009 to fuel  new-home sales  at an annual rate
of 550,000 to 600,000, the analysts said. New houses sold at a
pace of 369,000 in May, the highest rate since 2010, the
Commerce Department reported last month.  The Goldman Sachs analysts estimated new-home sales would
reach 700,000 in 2014.  U.S. Policies  Government policies have improved in the past year by
addressing supply instead of demand, the analysts wrote. Recent
programs include the bulk sale of foreclosed single-family homes
to investors who are converting them to rentals, and the
expanded Home Affordable Refinance Program, which allows
refinancing of properties worth less than their mortgages.  Investors “have yet to grasp the significant decline in
shadow inventory,” as the supply of homes for sale has fallen
to six months from 10 months  in the past two years, Pollard and
Savarirajan wrote. Shadow inventory, or the homes projected to
hit the market through foreclosures and short sales, is down 15
percent in  Arizona ,  California ,  Florida ,  Nevada  and  Texas , while
growth in building permits indicates a 34 percent increase in
demand in those states, they said.  “Investors are quickly swallowing new foreclosure supply,
limiting shadow inventory and creating a floor for home
prices,” Pollard and Savarirajan wrote. “We expect any further
decline in inventory to serve as a platform for price
appreciation, further aiding sales.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in  New York  at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  