-- Goldman Sachs, Bain Seek Dismissal of Bid-Rigging Lawsuit
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-07-24T16:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/goldman-sachs-bain-seek-dismissal-of-bid-rigging-lawsuit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Bain
Capital Partners LLC urged a federal judge to dismiss an
investor lawsuit accusing investment banks and private-equity
firms of conspiring to rig bids on leveraged buyouts.  The financial companies were among at least 10 defendants
seeking summary judgment from U.S. District Judge Edward Harrington in the five-year-old class action, or group lawsuit,
according to court papers filed yesterday in  Boston .  Goldman Sachs, in its filing, said the plaintiffs, who must
respond to the summary judgment motions by Aug. 23, haven’t
proved that the banks and private equity firms “participated in
any conspiracy in violation of the antitrust laws.” The
financial companies seek oral arguments in court. Meanwhile,
most documents supporting the motions are under seal.  Individuals and a pension fund that held shares in
companies including  Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. (FSL) , Neiman Marcus
Group and Aramark Holdings Corp. sued the firms in 2007 and
2008. Two separate lawsuits were consolidated by the judge, who
rejected a bid by the financial firms to move the case to
federal court in  New York .  Firms’ ‘Conspiracy’  “There was a conspiracy among private equity firms to rig
bids, restrict the supply of private equity financing, fix
transaction prices and divide up the market for private equity
services for leveraged buyouts,” the plaintiffs said in their
lawsuit.  The defendants also include  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ,  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) , Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. LLP,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  Apollo Global Management LLC, (APO)  Providence Equity Partners
Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, Silver Lake Technology
Management LLC and TPG Capital.  The companies have argued that the plaintiffs have no right
to sue for antitrust violations that would be subject to
Securities and Exchange Commission regulations. They also said
the transactions represented legitimate business practices.  “They neither identify any direct evidence of an actual
agreement among these 17 defendants to fix the market for large
LBOs nor allege circumstantial facts that support the
plausibility of such a conspiracy,” the defendants said in
court filings. “These transactions simply represent the normal
workings of the mergers and acquisition business.”  Freescale Sale  Plaintiff Kirk Dahl said in court papers that he and others
in the class owned shares in Freescale Semiconductor in 2006
when it announced an LBO by firms including Carlyle and
Blackstone.  “The prices paid for Freescale were suppressed below
prices that would otherwise prevail in a competitive market as a
result of the conspiracy,” the complaint stated.  The firms formed “bidding clubs” that rigged bids,
limited competitive offers and “artificially depressed
prices,” according to the lawsuit. Firms that weren’t part of
the winning bidding clubs would get minority stakes in the
acquired companies or fees as advisers, according to the
complaint.  “Joint bidding is central to the proper functioning of a
well-regulated capital markets system,” the financial firms
said.  To limit the number of bids, the companies’ managers were
offered incentives that included new equity, the plaintiffs
claimed.  After a company was acquired, the new owners would often
sell bonds to fund a dividend for themselves, allowing the
private equity firms to recoup as much as 35 percent of their
investment quickly and the banks to win fees for the debt sale,
the lawsuit stated. Later, the firms would sell the companies in
public stock offerings, reaping more returns and fees.  The plaintiffs include the Police and Fire Retirement
System of the City of  Detroit , a public pension fund.  The case is Dahl v. Bain Capital Partners LLC, 07-12388,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  