-- Google Evidence Arms Argentine Groups Against Andes Mines
-- B y   P a b l o   G o n z a l e z   a n d   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-07-23T13:11:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/google-evidence-arms-argentine-groups-against-andes-mines.html
Argentine environmentalists won
their first court ruling against gold mining in the Andes based
on Google Earth images of glaciers, which they say creates a
precedent for injunctions against other projects.  Osisko Mining Corp. (OSK) , a Canadian company, was ordered to
halt its gold exploration project in La Rioja province on July
18 after Judge Daniel Flores ruled that  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s digital
satellite images showed four glaciers in the area.  “Google Earth clearly shows that there are glaciers in the
area and thus I ruled to halt any kind of mining activity,”
Flores said in a telephone interview from La Rioja city. “I
granted the injunction without hearing arguments from Osisko or
the government of La Rioja because thanks to the Google images I
found veracity in the claims.”  The injunction sets the stage for environmentalists to use
similar images on gold mining projects such as  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s
Alumbrera and  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ’s Pascua-Lama project, on the
border of  Argentina  and  Chile , said Enrique Viale, president of
Argentina’s Association of Environmental Lawyers.  “This ruling paves the way for new injunctions using this
technology,” Viale, who’s assisting Greenpeace and other
environmental groups in seeking injunctions against the Pascua-
Lama project and Alumbrera mine, said in telephone interview
from Buenos Aires.  Flores’s injunction suspended an agreement signed last year
between the provincial government and Osisko until a federal
regulatory body completes an inventory of glaciers in the
Famatina area, in the foothills of the Andes. The national
glacier inventory was ordered in a 2010 law that the Argentine
 Supreme Court  backed as constitutional earlier this month.  ‘Not Affected’  Andy Lloyd , a spokesman for Barrick, declined to comment
beyond the company’s July 6  statement , in which it said that
construction at Pascua-Lama and mining activities at its
Veladero operation in Argentina were not affected by the Supreme
Court decision and that both were in compliance with existing
environmental approvals. Argentina’s national glacier agency
participated in the environmental approval for Pascua-Lama, the
company said in the statement.  Xstrata is not aware of any lawsuit having been filed
against the company in relation to the Argentine national
glaciers protection law, spokeswoman Emily Russell said by e-
mail.  John Burzynski, a spokesman for Osisko, didn’t return phone
calls seeking comment. Osisko, which started production last
year at its Quebec gold mine, said Jan. 30 that the Famatina
project is in its early stages and it hasn’t yet made any
significant financial investment.  Google Evidence  The Google Earth images were presented as evidence in the
case filed by Ismael Bordagaray, the mayor of Famatina city,
with the backing of environmental group CEDHA.  “This ruling is a leading case,” said CEDHA’s research
director Jorge Taillant in a phone interview from San Juan
province. “I was called to come here because a local foundation
wants our support to file similar injunction requests.”  The group is targeting projects in Argentina operated by
 Stillwater Mining Co. (SWC) ,  Malbex Resources Inc. (MBG)  and  NGEx Resources
Inc. (NGQ) , Taillant said. The requests will be filed with local
judges, as was the case with Famatina, Taillant said.  Malbex Chief Executive Officer Joe Hamilton, Amanda Strong,
a spokeswoman for NGEx, and Mike Beckstead, a spokesman for
Stillwater, didn’t immediately respond to calls seeking comment.  Flores said there’s little room for an appeal of these
kinds of injunctions.  “The affected parties can only file a nullity request,
which is unlikely to be accepted,” he said.  ‘Vague Law’  Barrick, the world’s biggest gold producer, suspended
exploration in the Famatina area in 2007, following local
protests against potential environmental damages caused by the
use of cyanide, a toxic chemical compound used to separate gold
from ore.  “The Glacier law is so vague in its glacier and peri-
glacier definition that foreign companies will be cautious in
making investments,” Hernan Zaballa, Barrick’s legal adviser in
Argentina, said in a phone interview from  Buenos Aires 
commenting the Supreme Court ruling that ordered the inventory
be completed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pablo Gonzalez in Buenos Aires at 
 pgonzalez49@bloomberg.net ;
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  