-- Micex Falls Most in 2 Months on Oil Drop, Global Growth Concerns
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-07-23T12:51:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/micex-retreats-to-1-week-low-on-oil-drop-global-growth-concerns.html
Russian stocks fell the most in two
months as crude oil, the nation’s chief export earner, declined
and investors sold riskier assets amid concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis may not be contained.  The benchmark  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  lost 2.5 percent to 1,380.68 by
3:37 p.m. in Moscow, the biggest intraday drop since May 23. OAO
MRSK Holding slipped 4.7 percent. OAO Sberbank, the nation’s
biggest lender, retreated 3.3 percent, and VTB Group slid 4.2
percent.  Crude fell 2.5 percent to $89.16 a barrel in New York,
slipping for a second day. Oil and gas contribute about 50
percent of Russia’s state revenue. German Vice Chancellor
Philipp Roesler said he’s “very skeptical” that European
leaders will be able to rescue Greece as creditors prepared to
meet this week in Athens.  “The devil is in the details, we have yet to see solid
steps for containing the  European debt crisis ,” Yulia Bushueva,
managing director at Arbat Capital Management in Moscow, which
manages $50 million in Russian equities, said by phone.
“Russian banks are highly correlated with the European events.
Russia is tumbling with the rest of the world today.”  Fund Outflows  Russia-dedicated equity funds posted outflows of $57
million in the week ended July 18, according to EPFR Global
data.  Commodities declined as China said its economy is slowing.
Economic expansion may cool for a seventh straight quarter to
7.4 percent in the three months to September, said Song Guoqing,
a member of the People’s Bank of China monetary policy
committee. In Greece, the troika of international creditors --
the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  -- will arrive tomorrow.  “This week should see more doom for the markets, again
centered on European debt problems,”  Chris Weafer , chief
strategist at Troika Dialog, said in an e-mailed research note.
“In Greece, the country and its creditors assess how far off
course it is from the bailout targets, once more raising the
specter of its exit from the euro.”  OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  declined 4.6 percent to 180.50 rubles, the most
intraday since July 16. Russia’s biggest producer of coal for
steelmakers retreated on concerns China’s slowdown may curb
demand for the commodity.  Index Valuation  Evraz Plc (EVR)  dropped 7.6 percent to 216.70 pence in London,
the lowest since the stock’s listing in November. Russia’s
largest producer of steel by output appears “too ambitious”
with its forecast of $5 billion in earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization for 2016 as prices fall,
Morgan Stanley said in today’s report.  The Micex trades at 5.1 times  estimated earnings , having
lost 1.5 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of 9.4
times for companies in the MSCI Emerging Market Index, which has
erased this year’s gain.  Russian equities have the cheapest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21  emerging markets  tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  