-- If You’re So Rich, How Come You’re So Miserable?
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-07-23T21:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/if-you-re-so-rich-how-come-you-re-so-miserable-.html
The best economic indicator  South
Korea (KOSPI)  produces is the energy on the streets of Seoul, whether
you’re navigating the throngs of young hipsters in Myeongdong,
the glitzy boutiques in Apgujeong or the nightclubs full of
foreign tourists in Itaewon.  Korea ’s per-capita income now rivals  New Zealand ’s,
 Israel ’s and  Greece ’s, and the economy is growing about 3
percent a year even as  Europe  crashes. South Korean companies
are chipping away at Apple Inc.’s global smartphone domination;
the nation is a world power in automobiles, shipbuilding and
steel; and its soft power is being advanced by “ K-pop ” bands,
movies and television dramas as the population nears the 50
million mark.  Why, then, are South Koreans the second-most-unhappy
people?  In a recent life-satisfaction study of 32 countries in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development by the
 World Values Survey Association ,  South Korea  came in 31st.
Surveys by Korean research institutes find that happiness among
teenagers is the lowest in the OECD. The nation also is at the
top of global league tables for suicides.  The disconnect is worth exploring because of South Korea’s
role-model status. Its post-Asian-crisis reforms increased
 living standards  and raised competiveness to an extent that has
 Japan  looking over its shoulder. Yet Korea also serves as a
template for countries trying to avoid the “middle-income
trap” that afflicts too many developing nations.  Cautionary Examples  Malaysia , the  Philippines  and  Thailand  are examples of
nations that had impressive income gains, only to stall. Some
economists predict that  China  is headed for a similar fate. In
contrast, observers view South Korea as an exemplar for peers in
 Asia .  The country’s achievements are largely a consequence of
investing in human capital. Achieving a high-quality education
has become a national obsession, and curriculums encourage
creativity, science and technology. South Korea also is working
to transform  Seoul  into an international financial center and a
model for eco-friendly growth.  Since the 1997 Asian crisis, deregulation opened markets to
the demands of Western shareholders. Increasing productivity
became a national mission. But one can’t help wondering if these
changes were unleashed too quickly, without the shock absorbers
to buffer a society subject to such dramatic change.  “The problem is that we Koreans are now too much focused
on competing with each other,” says Kim Yong Duk, a former
deputy finance minister who teaches at Korea University Business
School. “Always seeking to be best makes people too tired and
stressed. Now it’s time to hug each other.”  Economists tend to dismiss “ gross national happiness ” as
a quirky economic barometer from Bhutan, taking it no more
seriously than the length of women’s hemlines, the Big Mac Index
or the idea that new skyscrapers presage financial crises.  Yet South Korea demonstrates some unappreciated glitches in
the journey from poor to rich. If this model economy suffers
from acute growing pains, why would we expect China to fare any
better?  South Korea’s free-market revolution gave companies
incentives to dump full-time workers in favor of lower-paid
contract workers. It meant less focus on building social safety
nets needed to catch workers unable to quickly adapt to job
obsolescence. Fear of  unemployment  has South Koreans working
some of the longest hours anywhere.  Korean Sandwich  A glimpse of any map shows why Koreans are so anxious; they
are sandwiched between wealthy Japan and low-cost China (not to
mention belligerent  North Korea ) and must find a way to stand
out. Living costs are too high to compete with China, and,
demographically, Korea has more in common with aging Japan. Also
like Japan, Korea underutilizes its female workforce in ways
that hold back the economy.  South Korea’s response has been extreme pressure to excel.
Cram schools for children lead to obsession with college-
entrance exams that have outsized sway over one’s future. Next
comes striving for employment at a large, brand-name company
such as Hyundai Motor Co., LG Electronics Inc. or Samsung
Electronics Co. Such goals are driven less by passion than by
cultural norms.  “For us, the pressure to succeed has become like a sport
all its own,” says Theresa Seung Yun Rah, co-chief executive
officer at consulting firm Oratio and communications director of
the bid committee for the 2018 Winter Olympics, which will be in
Pyeongchang.  South Korea needs less stress and more dreaming. It must
innovate in ways companies have yet to try.  Samsung (005930) , whose
global reach is the pride of modern-day Korea, is a case in
point. Its phones and tablets are incredible pieces of
technology, and they are eating into Apple’s market share. But
its products are variations on the iPhone and iPad. It’s time
for Korea to come up with its own game changers.  Fast broadband speeds and hyper-connectivity haven’t made
the country more innovative. Nor has rapid growth. That must
come from Koreans themselves. For all the reforms since 1997, a
handful of family-run conglomerates focusing largely on exports
tower over the economy. The absence of a comprehensive welfare
state reduces risk taking and drives workers into safe
industries.  That deprives Korea of the kind of scientists and engineers
who strike out on their own, press forward without regard to the
mainstream and come up with a world-beating idea. No quick fix
exists, but cultivating small- and midsized businesses is the
surest way to boost entrepreneurship.  The global slowdown reminded us that for all of South
Korea’s gains, it’s still too much of a one-trick economy. And
an unhappy one at that.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  replace Libor  and on
 Europe’s wake-up call ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on what’s next for the
 Arab Spring ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on Obama’s  welfare mistake ; A. Gary
Shilling on higher education’s  broken financing model ; Betsey
Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  sham economics ; Bill Mallon on
 obscure sports  in past Olympics; Ilian Scarlatov on why  Greece
should act like Bulgaria .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  