-- Higher Education Needs a Financing Overhaul
-- B y   A .   G a r y   S h i l l i n g
-- 2012-07-23T22:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/higher-education-needs-a-financing-overhaul.html
“This hat cost me $110K.” That was
the message a 2012 graduate displayed on her mortarboard at her
university commencement.  The recent flare-up over huge student-loan balances,
especially among jobless recent college graduates, is exposing
deep flaws in the way higher education is financed.
Historically, the U.S. has always emphasized education as the
route to  financial success . In much of  Europe , the link between
education and economic achievement has never been as deeply
ingrained.  This U.S. zeal for schooling has been so vigorous that it
has blurred the distinction between education (the development
of the mind and the thinking process) and training (the
preparation for a job or career). Today, a person studying for a
doctorate, a pursuit that traditionally drew those with a thirst
for pure learning, may well be aiming for a career in business
in the same way as a candidate for a medical degree or a
master’s in business administration.  Middle-class American
parents  have long believed that the more degrees their offspring
collect, the higher they will end up on the social and economic
scale.  Unemployment Rates  The raw numbers support the idea of a link between college
education and financial well-being. All education levels now
have elevated  unemployment  rates. Nevertheless, for those with
less than a high-school diploma, joblessness leaped to 12.6
percent in May this year from 6.6 percent in May 2007, when the
overall rate was at its 4.8 percent low. The rate for those with
a bachelor’s degree or higher climbed to 4.1 percent from 2
percent.  The gap in  lifetime earnings  is also wide: Those lacking a
high-school diploma average $973,000 in 2009 dollars and
advanced-degree holders can expect to make $3 million or more
during their careers.  As most people are eager for  employment  and wealth, the
demand for higher education has been enormous, especially for
admission to the most prestigious schools whose graduates get
the top jobs. As a result, these institutions have become
extremely wealthy and powerful. They are so sought-after that
the demand from qualified candidates vastly exceeds the supply
of admission slots.  Tuition costs  continue to skyrocket. At top schools,
tuition and fees need to increase sharply to match supply and
demand. That is partly because colleges and universities don’t
charge everyone the same amount. Scholarship aid is used to
redistribute some money from those more able to pay to those
less able, so the actual charges range from full tuition and
fees to zero for students on full scholarships.  This price discrimination, as economists call it, works for
two reasons. First, it largely isolates the students of poorer
families from higher tuition because a big part of the price
increase is used to increase scholarship aid. So, regardless of
high tuitions, colleges get the student-body mix they want.  Second, only the  wealthiest parents  pay the full tuition,
and they are quite ready to pay even higher prices for a
prestigious educational product. This willingness by parents to
ante up for what they imagine is in their kids’ best interests
is the reason top-flight colleges have been able to raise their
prices far in excess of the inflation rate. If  Harvard
University  put a $1 million price tag on annual tuition, some
parents would pay it.  The difference between gross and net college costs is
considerable. The  College Board  reports that average published
tuition and fees, excluding room and board, at four-year public
colleges is now $8,240, up 72 percent from $4,790, adjusted for
inflation, 10 years ago. But after scholarships and grants along
with tax deductions and credits, the average net cost is $2,490,
still up 115 percent from $1,160 a decade ago.  Alumni Giving  The college-financing model worked in earlier years because
of loyal alumni. American colleges and universities, notably the
top private institutions, relied on graduates to contribute
generously to annual campaigns, incessant capital appeals and
through various trusts and bequests. Possibly except for local
churches, Americans’ strongest ties appear to be with their alma
maters. Interestingly, such ties mostly don’t exist in Europe,
perhaps because universities there are state-financed and
graduates figure they don’t need extra cash.  The third major source of additional money for higher
education has been returns on endowment investments. Most
institutions draw about 5 percent of endowment value each year
for operating expenses, so the remainder goes to offset
inflation and build the principal in real terms. Many have done
quite well on their investments in earlier years.  Even with the huge losses in 2008, which eliminated 19
percent from  educational endowments , a number of institutions
have had considerable success in the last 21 years, with returns
that comfortably exceeded the combined 5 percent withdrawals and
the 2.6 percent average increase in the  consumer price index .
This is partly because many university endowments have moved
beyond conventional investments and use alternative strategies,
such as private equity,  hedge funds , real estate and
commodities. Larger endowments have been particularly aggressive
in this movement. When an endowment exceeds the gross domestic
product of many smaller countries, the returns are significant.  This can lead to unnecessary spending, a sure sign of
opulence for a family, corporation or institution. Sure, top-
flight colleges and universities offer excellent educations, but
they also spend lavishly, and sometimes on questionable
activities. Some college presidents are paid $1 million or more.
Professors’ salaries are no longer in the poverty category,
especially for those in fields such as finance, law and science,
which offer lucrative consulting opportunities.  Faculty Moonlighting  And the faculty has plenty of time for outside work. Gone
are the 8 a.m. and Saturday-morning classes some of us remember.
As further evidence of this trend toward  more pay  for less work
in recent years, consider the widespread phenomenon of January
terms with no regular classes and extra pay if faculty members
do teach.  Prestigious and wealthy educational institutions also spend
on services that have little to do with basic education. These
include special library collections that only a few professors
and graduate students know about, much less appreciate or use.
They may be important for civilization, but would those costs be
incurred if money weren’t in ample supply?  Then there are elaborate athletic facilities, the many
counselors for troubled students, and the layers upon layers of
deans, sub-deans, provosts, proctors, and so on. From 1993 to
2007, college administrative outlays per student grew twice as
fast as spending on instruction.  Earlier, the  home equity  of parents was another source of
funding for tuition and expenses that allowed many colleges and
universities to spend lavishly and operate inefficiently. Many
treated this equity in their homes as an ATM and withdrew cash
liberally to pay the tuition of their offspring. Back in the
boom days, some people believed those ATMs would be continually
refilled by ever-higher  house prices .  Furthermore, in the 1982-2000  bull market  for equities,
many came to believe that appreciation in their stock portfolios
would provide money for their kids’ educations and other
expenses normally covered with savings out of current income. As
a result, Americans systematically reduced their  saving rate  to
less than 1 percent before the recent rebound, from 12 percent
in the early 1980s.  Student loans , which now equal almost $1 trillion, have
been another source of funding. They have continued to increase
while households in recent years have reduced mortgage debt,
auto loans and credit-card borrowing. Student loans rose 3.4
percent in the first quarter compared with the previous three
months, and 8 percent from a year earlier as the weak economy
encouraged more people to enter or return to school, and as
tuition kept rising. Since the fourth quarter of 2008 peak,
credit-card borrowing fell 22 percent and student loans leaped
41 percent. About 34 percent of families with college students
took out federal student loans in the 2011-2012 academic year,
up from 25 percent in 2008-2009.  Federal Loans  The federal government has been very aggressive in
providing  student-loan money  and guarantees with the goal of
making college accessible for more Americans. Federal-backed
loans account for more than 90 percent of student borrowing in
the 2010-2011 academic year. Nonfederal loans by states, banks
and  credit unions  covered 7 percent. Nevertheless, more student
loans tend to result in higher tuition costs as colleges absorb
the additional money. Legislators may believe they are making
college more affordable by promoting  student loans , but they are
also simply allowing colleges and universities to charge more
and spend more.  State support has been a major source of funding for public
universities. This has helped many state schools become powerful
institutions, which, in turn, gives them considerable influence
over state legislatures and budgets. That clout is magnified
when a state university has a winning football team that also
attracts financial support.  Given the earlier widespread belief that college is the
route to financial success, and the ample availability of
 financing , it’s no wonder that higher-education institutions
have sprung up to service every level of mental capacity. The
attraction of that money combined with the zeal of many liberal
college administrations and faculties to foster greater economic
and social diversity has resulted in a weakening of admissions
criteria and academic standards. No wonder that more than a
third of college freshmen now take remedial courses.  High private-university tuitions and plentiful student
loans have created a mushrooming niche for  for-profit schools 
such as the University of Phoenix. These businesses receive as
much as 90 percent of their revenue from  Pell grants , federally
guaranteed student loans and federal assistance for veterans.
They recruit the less-affluent to qualify for this government
money. These schools have a  poor track record  of high dropout
rates and poorly prepared graduates. They account for about 10
percent of the higher-education population and 40 percent to 50
percent of student-loan defaults.  The Education Department found that in 48 percent of  for-
profit schools , fewer than 35 percent of recent graduates are
repaying their student loans. That compares with only 18 percent
of public and nonprofit institutions. In 2008, about 53 percent
of those who earned bachelor’s degrees at for-profit
institutions owed $30,500 or more in student loans compared with
24 percent at private schools and 12 percent at public
universities and colleges.  In Part 2, I will examine the effects of the recent
recession on higher education and what some schools are doing in
response.  (A. Gary Shilling is president of A. Gary Shilling & Co.
and author of “The Age of Deleveraging: Investment Strategies
for a Decade of Slow Growth and Deflation.” The opinions
expressed are his own. This is the first in a two-part series.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  replace Libor  and on
 Europe’s wake-up call ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on what’s next for the
 Arab Spring ; William Pesek on the  price of economic growth  in
 South Korea ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on Obama’s  welfare mistake ;  Betsey
Stevenson  and  Justin Wolfers  on  sham economics ; Bill Mallon on
 obscure sports  in past Olympics; Ilian Scarlatov on why  Greece
should act like Bulgaria .  To contact the writer of this article:
A. Gary Shilling at  insight@agaryshilling.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  