-- Indian Stocks Drop to One-Month Low on Reform, Greece
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y
-- 2012-07-23T12:13:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/india-s-nifty-futures-drop-on-reliance-profit-greece.html
Indian stocks fell to the lowest in
more than a month on concerns the government may face further
roadblocks to its economic reform agenda and amid fresh signs
 Greece  may exit the euro.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ,  India ’s biggest carmaker, slumped
after it stopped work at its Manesar factory and said production
wouldn’t restart until a probe is completed into last week’s
rioting.  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , the country’s second-biggest
steelmaker by value, dropped 2.7 percent.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or Sensex, fell 1.6 percent
to 16,877.35 at close in Mumbai, the lowest since June 19.  Six Indian political parties wrote a joint letter to Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh  on July 21 asking the government not to
revive a plan to allow overseas retailers including  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  to open supermarkets. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
dropped on concern  China ’s economic growth will slow and after
German Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler said he’s “very
skeptical” that leaders in the European Union, India’s largest
trading partner, will be able to rescue Greece.  “Political resistance to economic reforms is going to hurt
 market sentiment ,” Sadanand Shetty, a senior  fund manager  at
Taurus Asset Management Co., which has about $671 million in
assets, said by phone. “There is expectation that the
government will break free from its policy paralysis. If they
don’t deliver now, we will be in for some trouble.”  Stalled Reforms  The Indian government is trying to revive its plan to
overhaul the retail sector, which has been halted since December
amid protests from opposition parties and the Trinamool
Congress, Singh’s biggest ally in the governing alliance.  Singh, who took control of the  finance ministry  in June,
has pledged to boost growth after expansion slowed to the lowest
in almost a decade. Apart from the plan to open the country’s
retail sector, an anti-corruption bill and proposals to allow
foreign direct investment in aviation and pensions are also
stalled.  The  Reserve Bank of India ’s technical advisory committee
will meet on July 25 in Mumbai to help formulate a policy
response to decelerating growth and rising inflation, the  Press
Trust of India  reported yesterday, without saying where it got
the information. The authority meets for its next policy review
on July 31.  Death at Maruti  Maruti lost 5.9 percent to 1,079.95 rupees. Chairman R.C.
Bhargava on July 21 ruled out an early resumption of work at the
Manesar factory, which accounts for about 40 percent of the
company’s manufacturing capacity. Last week’s violence resulted
in the death of a general manager and left at least 70 injured,
prompting the Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce &
Industry to say the incident has undermined India’s reputation
as an investment destination.  Jindal Steel & Power slumped 2.7 percent to 415.05 rupees
after Bolivian authorities arrested two employees and
confiscated company equipment and property after it canceled a
contract to develop an iron-ore mine, the company said in an e-
mailed statement.  Larsen & Toubro Ltd. (LT)  fell 0.9 percent to 1,378.1 rupees.
India’s biggest builder of power networks and airports posted a
16 percent increase in first-quarter profit after it boosted
sales. Net income rose to 8.64 billion rupees ($155 million) in
the three months ended June 30, from 7.46 billion rupees a year
earlier. That beat the 8.13 billion-rupee median of 19 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Overseas Funds  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian unit of the world’s
second-largest consumer goods company, may post a profit of 6.96
billion rupees, compared with 6.27 billion last year, according
to 23 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  India VIX, which measures the cost of protection against
losses in the  S&P CNX Nifty Index (NIFTY) , rose 10.5 percent to 18.66,
the steepest gain since May 23. The S&P CNX Nifty Index fell 1.7
percent to 5,117.95 and its July futures settled at 5,122.10.
The BSE-200 Index declined 1.7 percent. Combined volume on the
nation’s top two bourses was 635 million shares on July 20, 30
percent less than the 12-month daily average of 901 million
shares.  The Sensex has gained 9 percent this year. The gauge trades
at 13.2 times estimated earnings, compared with 10 times for the
MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Four out of nine companies on the Sensex that have reported
June-quarter results have missed analyst estimates, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit for 30 percent of index
companies missed  estimates  in the March quarter, compared with
47 percent in the period ended December, the data show.  Overseas investors bought domestic shares for a  14th day  on
July 19, the longest run of net purchases since February, data
from the  Securities & Exchange Board of India  show. Foreign
funds have invested a net $10.2 billion in local equities since
Jan. 1, the highest in  Asia  and a record for the period,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  