-- Hindustan Unilever Net Income Doubles on One-Time Gain
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-07-24T11:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/hindustan-unilever-net-income-doubles-on-one-time-gain.html
Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR) , the Indian
unit of the world’s second-largest consumer-goods company,
reported first-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates
after a one-time gain and increase in some product prices.  Net income doubled to 13.3 billion rupees ($237 million) in
the three months ended June 30, from 6.27 billion rupees a year
earlier, the Mumbai-based company said in a statement. The
figure includes a one-time gain of 6.07 billion rupees, it said.
The median of 25  analysts’ estimates  compiled by Bloomberg was a
6.96 billion-rupee profit.  Chief Executive Officer Nitin Paranjpe raised some prices
of soaps, detergents and personal-care products to offset higher
raw material costs. The weakest monsoon rainfall in three years
may constrain the company’s ability to boost prices further as
declining farm output and rural income damp consumer demand in
villages, according to Paras Bothra, head of research at Ashika
Stock Broking Ltd.  “Some kind of margin pressure is going to be there because
their strategy is going to be not to hamper volume growth,”
Bothra said in a telephone interview from Kolkata. “They won’t
be able to aggressively move up prices because purchasing power
won’t be that strong in the rural areas for the next two
quarters.”  Hindustan  Unilever (ULVR) ’s shares rose 7.5 percent to close at
476.20 rupees, the highest since Bloomberg started compiling
data in 1991, and was the best performer on  India ’s benchmark
Sensitive Index, which gained 0.2 percent.  Rural Sales  Deficient rains during the monsoon season, which accounts
for more than 70 percent of India’s annual rainfall, is delaying
sowing of rice, oilseeds and lentils in several parts of the
country, Agricultural Secretary Ashish Bahuguna said July 21.
Hindustan Unilever has said more than 40 percent of its products
are consumed in rural areas of the country.  Sales for the maker of Sunsilk shampoo and Knorr soup
increased 14 percent to 62.5 billion rupees. The one-time gain
includes proceeds from the sale of real estate.  Spending on advertising and promotions for the Indian unit
of Unilever rose 30 percent to 8.2 billion rupees from a year
earlier. Sales of the company’s soaps including Dove and
detergents such as Surf increased 24 percent to 31.6 billion
rupees, and personal care products rose 17 percent to 18.5
billion rupees.  Price Increases  Revenue of Hindustan Unilever’s packaged food such as
Kissan ketchup increased 17 percent to 4.4 billion rupees.  “In the June quarter, you will see that pricing has
contributed about half of the growth we have seen in our
consumer business,” Chief Financial Officer Sridhar Ramamurthy
said on a call with reporters. Prices of some of its home and
personal care products were raised in the quarter, he said,
without elaboration.  Parent Unilever is increasingly dependent on  emerging
markets  such as India for growth. It  got  41 percent of revenue
last year from Asia and  Africa , compared with 33 percent from
the Americas and 26 percent from  Europe , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  