-- IPOs to Face ‘Ebbs and Flows,’ Morgan Stanley Says
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-07-23T15:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/ipos-to-face-ebbs-and-flows-morgan-stanley-says.html
Initial public offerings, on the
rebound following a monthlong U.S. drought, will face “ebbs and
flows” this year amid further economic turbulence in  Europe  and
the U.S., according to Morgan Stanley.  The bank is the top adviser on IPOs in 2012 after leading
 Facebook (FB)  Inc.’s record $16 billion sale. Investors may be
daunted by uncertainty over planned U.S. tax increases and the
 European debt crisis , even after a lull in stock volatility
revived the market this month, said Colin Stewart, Morgan
Stanley vice chairman of global  capital markets .  “While the markets have settled down, people are waiting
for the next thing to happen,” Stewart, based in  Menlo Park ,
California, said in an interview. “I don’t know if the pace
necessarily accelerates materially from here -- the macro
environment is a governor on that.”  Stewart helped cement Morgan Stanley’s lead in IPOs last
week with sales for technology companies  Palo Alto (PANW)  Networks Inc.
and Kayak Software Corp., both of which surged in their public
debuts. The successes mark a reversal for the bank, which drew
criticism for its handling of the record IPO for Facebook, whose
stock sank as much as 32 percent after its debut.  This week is poised to be the busiest for initial share
sales since March, with eight companies set to raise as much as
$923 million, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Companies such as
 Palo Alto  and  Five Below Inc. (FIVE)  gained in their public trading
debuts last week as volatility fell to the lowest in almost four
months.  Euro’s Decline  Global turmoil may temper the revival. The euro fell to its
lowest in more than two years last week, even as euro-area
finance ministers gave final approval to a rescue package for
 Spain  in an effort to tame the region’s debt crisis, now in its
third year. Meanwhile, U.S. legislators are debating how to
avoid $607 billion of automatic spending cuts and tax increases
scheduled to take effect next year as high unemployment
persists.  A 39 percent decline through last week from a June 1 high
in the Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, known as
the  VIX (VIX) , “is certainly helpful” in spurring investors’
appetite for risk, Stewart, 45, said in a telephone interview.
The VIX has surged as much as 26 percent today to 20.49.  His bank led IPOs by Internet-firewall provider Palo Alto,
travel-site operator Kayak and software-maker ServiceNow Inc.
following the freeze after Facebook’s offering. Stewart, who has
worked at the bank for more than 20 years and helped take Google
Inc. public, declined to comment on the  Facebook IPO .  ‘Consumer Internet’  Facebook wasn’t the only Internet IPO to lose money for
investors. Online coupon provider  Groupon Inc. (GRPN) , music service
Pandora Media Inc. and social-gaming company Zynga Inc. have
languished as public companies. As of July 20, Groupon had
dropped 63 percent since its November IPO, Pandora had sunk 34
percent and Zynga had posted a 52 percent drop since its
December offering.  “Market environments have changed, and how people value
these businesses has changed,” Stewart said. “Consumer
Internet has been a challenging space for investors.”  Morgan Stanley is edging out JPMorgan Chase & Co. for the
lead in U.S. IPOs, with each claiming about 12 percent of the
market. There have been more than $28 billion in U.S. IPOs in
2012, the largest being Facebook’s, the biggest in history for
an Internet or technology company. On those types of sales,
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  is on track to lead this year.  Palo Alto, Kayak  Palo Alto raised $260.4 million in its July 19 IPO, pricing
the stock above an increased range, and gained 27 percent in its
first day of trading July 20. Norwalk, Connecticut-based Kayak
raised $91 million and rose 28 percent in its debut.  “Although Morgan Stanley is not off the hook completely
because of the Facebook debacle, they did prove that they can do
a deal and make it work,” said Scott Sweet, senior managing
partner at research firm IPO Boutique in Lutz,  Florida . “Since
Facebook has come out, there have been no disasters.”  Morgan Stanley is the sixth-biggest U.S. bank by assets.
The lender generated $283 million in revenue from equity
underwriting last quarter, a 32 percent drop from a year
earlier. The bank  reported  $6.95 billion in total revenue for
the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in  New York  at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  