-- Iran, EU Officials Seek Common Ground to Renew Nuclear Talks
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-07-24T18:33:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/iran-eu-officials-seek-common-ground-for-renewing-nuclear-talks.html
Iranian and European Union officials
met in Istanbul today in an attempt to establish common ground
for another round of international talks on the Islamic
Republic’s nuclear program.  The meeting between Helga Schmid, deputy head of the EU’s
foreign relations arm, and Ali Bagheri, Iran’s deputy negotiator
on the nuclear issue, will be followed by contact between EU
foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  and Saeed Jalili, Iran’s
chief negotiator, Ashton’s office said today, without giving
details of the talks.  The U.S. and its allies have raised concerns that Iran is
concealing a nuclear-weapons program, a charge Iran rejects,
saying it needs the technology to generate power for its growing
population and to pursue medical research.  Israel  has warned that it may carry out military strikes
against Iran to halt its program. The U.S. has also declined to
rule out the use of force, while urging Israel to give sanctions
and diplomacy an opportunity to work.  “We all prefer a diplomatic resolution, and Iran’s leaders
still have the opportunity to make the right decision,”
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said in  Jerusalem  last week.
“Our own choice is clear: We will use all elements of American
power to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.”  Nuclear talks with Iran resumed in Istanbul in April after
an interval of more than a year. The last high-level discussions
involving members of the so-called P5+1 -- U.K., U.S., China,
Russia, France and  Germany  -- were held in Moscow in June.  Talks Downgraded  After that meeting failed to produce results, the talks
were downgraded to “technical level” and a meeting took place
in Istanbul earlier this month.  “We cannot negotiate forever,” Israeli Foreign Minister
Avigdor Liberman told reporters after meeting European Union
officials in Brussels today. “We hope to see substantial
results.”  The EU imposed an oil embargo against  Iran , the second-
biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, effective from the start of this month. The U.S. has
also placed financial and trade sanctions on Iran, including a
ban on transactions with its central bank.  The P5+1 negotiators say they want Iran to stop enrichment
of uranium to 20 percent, a step short of bomb grade, and ship
the fuel it has already enriched to that level out of the
country. They are also seeking the closure of the mountainside
Fordo atomic facility.  Atomic Technology  Iran, a signatory to the nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty,
says it wants recognition of its right to enrich uranium, a
lifting of sanctions and increased transfer of atomic
technology, as well as a regional security accord.  “If Iran’s rights are officially, specifically and fully,
acknowledged, it’ll be an acceptable conclusion for us,”
Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  told
reporters in Tehran today. “Iran has announced that it is ready
in return to take measures to allay their concerns.”  Mehmanparast said on July 17 that “if the two sides reach
an understanding and agree on an agenda for continuation of
talks, the venue and date of next negotiations will be
decided.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  