-- IRS Says It Will Examine Rules for Nonprofit Political Activity
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-07-23T18:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/irs-says-it-will-examine-rules-for-non-profit-political-activity.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  will
consider changing the regulations governing nonprofit “social
welfare” groups that are buying millions of dollars in
television ads to try to influence the presidential election and
other races.  A three-paragraph letter dated July 17 represents the first
time the IRS is acknowledging potential problems with political
spending by such nonprofits, said David Vance, a spokesman for
the Campaign Legal Center.  For about a year, the center and Democracy 21, both
Washington-based nonpartisan nonprofit groups that back more
campaign finance disclosure, have asked the IRS to revisit the
regulations associated with the groups, known by their tax code
section as 501(c)(4)s.  “We will consider proposed changes in this area as we work
with the IRS Office of Chief Counsel and the Treasury
Department’s Office of Tax Policy to identify tax issues that
should be addressed through regulations and other public
guidance,” Lois Lerner, the IRS’s director of exempt
organizations, wrote. The letter also mentions “current public
interest in this issue.”  It would be difficult for the IRS to propose, make and
carry out revised regulations before the Nov. 6 presidential
election.  Active Groups  Some of the nonprofits most active in the political arena
this year include Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, which
started with the help of former President  George W. Bush ’s chief
political strategist,  Karl Rove , and Americans for Prosperity,
co-founded by energy billionaire  David Koch . Helping Democratic
causes are offshoots of groups such MoveOn.org and Priorities
USA, a companion to a super-political action committee of the
same name.  Such groups are able to maintain their tax-exempt status
and keep their donor lists private so long as their primary
purpose isn’t political. To the groups, that rule has meant
keeping their political activity to less than 50 percent of
overall expenses. Advocates of stricter campaign finance say the
political activity should be far less.  The Campaign Legal Center and Democracy 21 have
periodically reminded the IRS about the concerns they have
raised, but hadn’t heard back from the agency until receiving
its letter on July 20.  IRS ‘Inaction’  “The inaction of the IRS is only serving to inspire
further abuses of the  tax code  as 501(c)(4)s are misused by
special interests and individuals seeking to buy influence in
Congress and the White House without revealing their identities
to the public,” said J. Gerald Hebert, executive director of
the Campaign Legal Center in a press release March 22, when the
groups had sent another letter on the issue to the IRS.  “The IRS needs to establish a bright-line standard on
eligibility for this privileged tax status or the already
flagrant abuses will become even more widespread and the damage
to our democracy will be made infinitely worse,” Hebert said.  It has yet to be determined how quickly -- if at all -- the
IRS will act. Lists of the agency’s priorities for fiscal year
2011-2012 don’t include re-examining the 501(c)(4) issues raised
by Democracy 21 and the Campaign Legal Center. The agency hasn’t
released its 2012-2013 priorities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  