-- Is Progressive Taxation Progressive?
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-07-23T17:16:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/is-progressive-taxation-progressive-.html
With his “ you didn’t build that " remark, President  Barack Obama  walked into a
broad philosophical debate over taxation. Most people would say that taxes ought to be “equitable,” but there are many
views about what that means.  The two most common principles of equity are the
“benefit principle,” which holds that people should pay more in taxes the more
they benefit from government services, and the “ability-to-pay principle,” which
holds that people with more resources should pay more. Every tax system makes an effort to balance these two principles.
Conservatives tend to favor the former and liberals the latter, because the
latter is more aligned with progressive taxation. The interesting thing about “you didn’t build that” is that it’s an argument
from the benefit principle, not the ability-to-pay principle. The president was
contending that rich people should pay more in tax because they were the
beneficiaries of government actions that helped them get rich, not simply
because they are rich and can therefore pay more. This is a good point, as I argue in the Boston Globe  this morning . Yet
middle-class people are also drawing increasingly valuable and expensive
benefits from the actions of the federal government, and Obama has steadfastly
refused to tell them they need to pay more. Of course, the president could simply back away from the benefit principle
and make purely redistributive arguments for progressive taxation. The problem
is that you need a  tax code  that leans heavily on the benefit principle if you
hope to finance a large and active government. As I wrote in the Globe, there’s
a reason that countries with big welfare states also have big, regressive taxes
like VATs. This is because -- and forgive me for getting wonky here for a second -- the
deadweight loss of a tax (the economic value that is lost because the tax causes
people to change their behavior) is a function of the square of the tax
rate. Here’s what that means. Imagine that a widget costs $100 to produce and is
subject to a 5 percent sales tax. You will only buy the widget if it is worth at
least $105 to you. Some beneficial trades are lost to the tax -- people who
would have valued the widget at $102 won’t buy it. But the economic losses are
small, because only a small number of consumers fall within the dissuaded
range. Now imagine that widgets are subject to a 25 percent tax. There will both be
a lot more sales lost to the tax -- consumers valuing the good for less than
$125 won’t buy, and that’s a larger fraction of the market -- and there will be
more loss of welfare from each lost sale. Think of the welfare losses per sale
this way: It’s a bigger economic problem when a policy prevents sales of $100
widgets to people who value them at $120 than when it prevents sales of them to
people who value them at $102. This example uses a  sales tax , but the principle works the same way with an
income tax; you can think of labor as being the good sold by the worker to the
firm. With income taxes, higher marginal rates both dissuade more people from
working, and dissuade people whose output increasingly exceeds their wages from
working. Roughly, you can expect that when you double a tax rate, the deadweight loss
due to the tax increases by a factor of four. Eventually, the economic cost of a
tax becomes very large relative to the revenue it generates. That’s why the CBO
 estimates  that the president’s plan to extend most of the tax cuts would be
worse for the economy than Republicans’ plan to extend all of them, even though
the president’s plan would have grown the public debt less -- the president was
proposing to sunset cuts in marginal tax rates on high earners. And this is why welfare states tend to go hand in hand with efficient,
regressive taxes like VATs. As the government gets larger and needs more
revenue, the efficiency problems created by progressive taxation get more and
more pressing, and regressive taxation is needed. This is something U.S. liberals have not gotten comfortable with. You can
think of liberals having two goals on  tax policy : The government should collect
more revenue, and it should do so more progressively. Those goals are in tension
with each other, and liberals have chosen to focus on the latter. Unless they
learn to love middle-class taxes, they will find that a devotion to progressive
taxation makes progressive spending programs unaffordable. Obama’s speech made clear that he knows how to argue for taxes based on the
benefit principle. Now he needs to take that argument to the middle class -- and
when he does, he should probably find a less scolding way to put it. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  Follow  him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Josh Barro and other Bloomberg View
columnists and editors at  the Ticker .  