-- Mitsui Fudosan Plans to Increase Investment in Stanhope
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 2012-07-23T06:28:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/mitsui-fudosan-plans-to-increase-investment-in-u-k-s-stanhope.html
Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801) ,  Japan ’s largest
property developer by sales, plans to boost its investment in
U.K. developer Stanhope Plc as part of its $6.4 billion global
expansion plan.  Mitsui Fudosan, which owns 15 percent of the London-based
developer, is also in talks with several companies as it seeks
to increase its foothold in other countries such as Germany and
 France , said Hideto Yamada, managing director of Mitsui Fudosan
(UK) Ltd. He declined to provide details because the deal hasn’t
been made public yet.  “We are comfortable with this partnership and I believe it
has been quite successful, so within the near future, we are
increasing our commitment,” Yamada said in an interview in
Tokyo. “Since we are extending our operation in continental
Europe, we are keeping a dialog with potential partners there.”  Japanese developers including Mitsui Fudosan and  Mitsubishi
Estate Co. (8802)  are expanding abroad to diversify their revenue
sources after four years of falling land prices at home. Mitsui
Fudosan plans to invest about 500 billion yen ($6.4 billion) in
overseas markets by March 2018, while Mitsubishi Estate, the
country’s No. 2 developer, wants to double its overseas profit
in two years.  Tokyo-based Mitsui Fudosan’s investment plan for the U.S.,
the U.K. and Europe will account for 60 percent of total
overseas commitments, according to the company’s mid-term plan
announced on April 9.  Mitsui Fudosan’s shares fell 1.1 percent to 1,450 yen at
the close of trading in Tokyo.  Global Expansion  Stanhope, which has completed more than 10 billion pounds
($16 billion) of projects including the Royal Opera House and HM
Treasury building in the U.K., is currently working on 17
projects with partners including  British Sky Broadcasting Group
Plc (BSY)  and  Schroders Plc (SDR) , according to its  website .  “Development is a very local business,” Yamada said. “We
need to lay the platform first by participating in some certain
meaningful interests with good partners there.”  Mitsui Fudosan, Stanhope and Alberta Investment Management
Corp. paid 200 million pounds for the British Broadcasting
Corp.’s television center in West  London , the companies  said  on
July 20 in a joint statement.  The Tokyo-based company currently has four projects in
London with two under construction, according to its website.
The developer’s total assets there will reach 65 billion yen by
2014, when both projects are completed, he said.  European Crisis  Total return for properties in the U.K. fell by half last
year to 7.8 percent from 15 percent in 2010, based on data
compiled by RREEF, a property investment arm of Deutsche Bank AG.  Mitsui Fudosan is pursuing opportunities in  Europe  as the
region’s debt crisis and concern that the global economy is
slipping into recession, creating less competition in the market,
said Yamada.  “Because of this uncertainty across the world,
particularly in continental Europe, everyone tends to hold up
their decision-making,” he said. “That is actually good for us
because we primarily look at long-term value creation and we
don’t necessary need to compete with short-term players.”  Mitsui Fudosan is financing its projects by borrowing in
local currency from Japan’s largest banks with operations in the
U.K., Yamada said.  “The financing is very dearth, which is good for us to
express our strengths,” said Yamada. “We don’t need to recycle
our capital in any near future. We can afford to wait and hold
properties till the time that makes sense for us to sell.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in  Tokyo  at 
 Kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  