-- Jamie Oliver Pumps Up Volume With Help From U.S. Friend
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-07-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/jamie-oliver-pumps-up-volume-with-help-from-u-s-friend.html
Where do you go when you want to
create a British pizza? Phoenix, of course.  Jamie Oliver ’s Union Jacks is a new chain of retro
restaurants that follows Jamie’s Italian. He turned to  Arizona ,
where chef Chris Bianco made his name with Pizzeria Bianco. New
York-born Bianco is a great choice.  The wood-fired pizzas -- or British flatbreads as they were
initially called -- are very good. The dough is made in-store
rather than distributed from a central location and the toppings
are mainly British, from the cheese through to the meat.  The latest branch opened last week in Covent Garden, the
second location in central London after nearby Holborn. The 
dishes are strong, the prices are acceptable and the service, 
particularly in Holborn, is friendly, and efficient. What could 
go wrong?  Are you listening, Jamie? It’s the noise.  At Holborn, music played so loud I sat outside until forced
indoors by the rain. At  Covent Garden , the amplified patter of
entertainers comes over loud and clear. At lunch, the decibel
reading bounced along above 80 and peaked near 90. That’s the
kind of level at which  hearing protection is required .  (The alternative at Covent Garden is to sit in a basement.)  If it were possible to grit your teeth while consuming
pizza, I would recommend you do that at least once. The bases
are light and crisp while the toppings are big on flavor. Take
the Red Ox, at 12.50 pounds ($20): Oxtail and brisket are slow
braised in Worcestershire sauce and paired with Sparkenhoe red
Leicester cheese, with watercress and fresh horseradish on top.  Red Ox  There’s so much enjoyment to be had from this combo of
tastes and textures, it reminds me of the early days of kebabs
in  London . As a student, I could afford the cheapest about once
every two weeks, and still remember that meaty, chili, onion
flavor bomb. The Red Ox is as big, only a tad more refined.  Other options include the fine Old Spot: slow-roast
shoulder of pork, quince and Bramley sauce, Cropwell Bishop
Stilton, crackling and watercress. There’s the Chilli Freak if
you like it hot; or Fish Pie, with smoked Pollock, heritage
potatoes, sweet leeks and Welsh cockles.  Oliver and Bianco work closely with cheese-makers and other
suppliers. There’s also support for British wines. The Chapel
Down sparkling English rose at 25 pounds a bottle is delicious
and delicate and a great bargain. It’s 18 pounds a bottle if you
buy it direct from the vineyard.  Fish Fingers  The rest of the menu at Union Jacks is fine, if less
distinctive. It’s simple fare such as fish fingers with tartare
sauce (5.50 pounds) and garlic mushrooms with mayonnaise. There
are also British grills, including Indian-spiced chicken with
Bombay potatoes, carrot salad and coriander yoghurt.  I never tasted anything bad, and there are sure to be fans
for retro desserts such as black forest gateau and sticky
treacle tart.  Best of all for these days, Union Jacks need not be
expensive if you order with a little care. Lunch for three
adults and two kids came to less than 100 pounds, including a
bottle of sparkling wine. On the other hand, a lunch for two
cost 90 pounds once we’d ordered starters, mains, sides and
coffee, plus fizzy water and that fizzy wine.  Union Jacks doesn’t serve Britain’s best pizzas any more
than Jamie’s Italian the best Italian fare. Oliver inhabits the
mid-market, where quality and value intersect. Across the range
of cooking shows, books and restaurants, he is the chef who is
doing most to raise everyday standards of eating in the U.K.  Plus, he’s a good guy.  He deserves to be heard.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? About 20-25 pounds a head.  Sound level? 11. (That’s 80 decibels, plus.)  Inside tip? Order the sparkling rose, unless you’re 17.  Special feature? British pizza.  Will I be back? If I can find a quiet table.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? **1/2.  Union Jacks, Unit 5C, Covent Garden Market, London, EC2E
8RF. Information: +44-20-3640-7086 or
 http://www.unionjacksrestaurants.com/   Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Mark Beech  on arts and  Mike Di
Paola  on conservation.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 