-- Japan Share of Europe Rescue Debt Slides as Yields Turn Negative
-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2012-07-23T04:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/japan-share-of-europe-rescue-debt-slides-as-yields-turn-negative.html
Japan ’s share of purchases of
European rescue bonds is sliding even as the government pledges
to continue supporting efforts to resolve the euro region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Japan bought 3 percent of the six-month debt sold by the
European Financial Stability Facility last week, down from 8
percent at a similar sale in January, according to data provided
by the  Finance Ministry . In the latest sale, the bills had a
negative yield, meaning investors get less than they paid when
the debt matures.  Asian stocks fell today after German Vice Chancellor
Philipp Roesler said yesterday that he’s very skeptical that
 Greece , a recipient of EFSF money, can be rescued. A Japanese
finance ministry official said that the demand at last week’s
auction, where bidding was 2.97 times the debt allocated,
indicates the fund needs less assistance from Japan. He spoke on
condition of anonymity because of ministry policy.  “Negative interest rates erode incentives to invest and
such bonds aren’t a good tool to manage Japan’s euro-currency
assets,” said  Koji Ochiai , chief market economist at Mizuho
Investors Securities Co. in Tokyo, one of 25 primary dealers
obliged to bid at Japanese government debt sales. “Japan may
reduce its EFSF investments gradually, while maintaining
purchases to signal its support.”  In total, Japan has bought 8.7 percent of 67.4 billion
euros ($82 billion) of EFSF debt, according to Bloomberg
calculations from data provided by the ministry. That is down
from 20.5 percent in January 2011, when sales first took place.  Supporting Europe  Japan continues to support  Europe  and decisions on EFSF
purchases are made in accordance with the nation’s foreign-
currency reserve management policies, the ministry official said
last week. Japan hasn’t bought any of the rescue fund’s 20- or
25-year debt, according to the ministry.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index dropped 1.5 percent as of 11:36
a.m. in  Tokyo .  The rescue fund has a top AAA credit grade from Moody’s
Investors Service and Fitch Ratings. It joined Belgium, Denmark,
France,  Germany , the Netherlands and Switzerland in attracting
investors even with yields below zero.  Roesler, who is Germany’s economy minister, told
broadcaster ARD that Greece is unlikely to meet its obligations
under a euro-area bailout program as the nation’s international
creditors -- the European Commission, the  European Central Bank 
and the  International Monetary Fund  -- hold talks this week in
Athens. Should that be the case, the country won’t receive more
bailout payments, Roesler said.  Permanent Fund  The EFSF is a temporary vehicle, which will be replaced by
a permanent fund, the European Stability Mechanism. Japan’s
Yomiuri newspaper reported last week that Germany will ask Japan
to buy bonds to be issued by the European Stability Mechanism,
citing an interview with  Volker Kauder , parliamentary leader of
Germany’s  Christian Democratic Union .  Spain’s banks are set for a bailout, and Greece, Ireland
and Portugal have already had EFSF loans. While nations
including China have indicated support for the rescue fund, the
EFSF doesn’t publicly disclose how much each country buys.  The rescue fund was set up in 2010 and is backed by
guarantees from euro-area governments. It has a total lending
capacity of 440 billion euros, according to its website.  The EFSF last week auctioned the six-month bills at a yield
of minus 0.0113 percent. Borrowing costs of the region’s higher-
rated nations have plunged since the European Central Bank cut
its benchmark  interest rate  to 0.75 percent and lowered its
deposit rate to zero on July 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  