-- Japan Stock Futures Fall as Moody’s Cuts Germany Outlook
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-07-23T23:19:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/japan-stock-futures-fall-as-moody-s-cuts-germany-outlook.html
Japanese and Australian  stock 
 futures  fell after Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit
outlooks of Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, renewing
concern about Europe’s debt crisis. Greece creditors are due to
meet this week.  American depositary receipts of  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial
Group Inc. (8306) , Japan’s biggest lender, lost 1.2 percent from the
closing share price in  Tokyo . ADRs of  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,
Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer, slid 0.2
percent after oil fell the most this year. Shares of  Cnooc Ltd. (883) 
may be active after China’s largest offshore energy explorer
agreed to pay $15.1 billion in cash to acquire Canada’s Nexen
Inc. in the biggest overseas takeover by a Chinese company.  Futures on Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  expiring in
September closed at 8,465 in Chicago yesterday, down from 8,510
in Osaka, Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,460 in
Osaka, at 8:05 a.m. local time. Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index slid 0.3 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index
dropped 0.7 percent in Wellington.  “Equity markets are in a hurry for a resolution, and I
don’t think policy makers, politicians and central banks in
Europe can meet that expectation in a realistic way,” said
Prasad Patkar, who helps manage about $1 billion at Platypus
Asset Management Ltd. in Sydney. “It’s going to take a lot
longer to solve Europe.”  In  Hong Kong , the opening of local markets may be delayed
today as the city enacted its highest storm signal for the first
time since 1999 as Severe Typhoon Vicente intensified.  Spain Yields  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1)  declined 0.3
percent today. The index fell 0.9 percent in  New York  yesterday
as Spain’s 10-year bond yields surged to a euro-era high on bets
more of the region will ask for aid. After the market closed,
Moody’s said it cut Germany, the Netherlands’ and Luxembourg’s
Aaa credit rating outlooks to negative, citing “rising
uncertainty” about Europe’s debt crisis. Risks that Greece may
exit the 17-nation euro currency and “increasing likelihood”
of collective support for European countries such as Spain and
Italy were among reasons for the change, Moody’s said yesterday.  Shares of Kirin Holdings Co., a Japanese brewer, is in
early discussions for a potential bid for Asia Pacific Breweries
Ltd., the Wall Street Journal reported.  MSCI Down  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  fell 11 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday amid concern  China’s
economy  is slowing and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis will
worsen. The regional benchmark traded at 11.6 times  estimated
earnings  as of yesterday, compared with 13.1 for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index and 10.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. sank 2.1 percent to 84.32 in New
York, the lowest close since Oct. 4, on concern that a slowdown
in the world’s second-largest economy will erode earnings.  In China, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics are
scheduled today to report its preliminary reading on the
nation’s manufacturing for July.  Crude oil for September delivery slumped $3.69 to settle at
$88.14 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest decrease for a front-month contract since Dec. 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 