-- Japan Opposition Chief Warns Noda Against Altering Tax Bill
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-07-24T03:14:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/japan-opposition-chief-warns-noda-against-altering-tax-increase.html
Japanese opposition leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  said he may submit a no-confidence motion aimed at
removing the ruling  Democratic Party  from government if it
backpedals on a plan to double the  sales tax .  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  pushed the measure through
the Diet’s lower house last month in a bid to tackle Japan’s
record debt and ballooning welfare outlays, at the cost of
splitting his Democratic Party as dozens of its lawmakers left.
Noda needs support from Tanigaki’s  Liberal Democratic Party  to
pass the plan in the upper house, where he lacks a majority.  “If they modify it to please members of the ruling party,
we are more likely to tell them to forget the whole thing than
to say OK,” Tanigaki said in an interview yesterday with
Bloomberg News in his  Tokyo  office. At that point a no-
confidence motion would be “possible,” he said.  Tanigaki’s warning raises the political stakes for Noda as
he seeks to secure both the enactment of the  tax  legislation and
the survival of his administration. Noda faces re-election as
leader of his party in September, and is the third DPJ prime
minister since it took power in September 2009.  “For Tanigaki and the LDP, the timing is wonderful to try
to precipitate a national election,” said  Jeff Kingston ,
director of Asian Studies at  Temple University  in Tokyo. “The
key will not be whether the LDP votes for a no-confidence
motion, but whether they can also get everybody else on board.”  Majority Dwindles  After the departure of the sales tax rebels, the DPJ’s
majority has dwindled, with the party and coalition partner
controlling 254 of 480 seats in the lower chamber, according to
the parliamentary website.  Some members who voted against the bill and remained in the
party are still agitating for change. Former Prime Minister
 Yukio Hatoyama  has set up a sales-tax study group, and lawmaker
Hiroshi Kawauchi said this month he planned to put forward
proposals to alter the bill.  The legislation would increase the 5 percent sales tax to 8
percent in April 2014 and to 10 percent in October 2015.
Opponents argue that the increase contradicts pledges the DPJ
made in coming to power in 2009, and say it may restrain
consumption while failing to increase  tax revenue .  Tanigaki, 67, who has called for parliament to be dissolved
next month, precipitating a general election, said his party
would only cooperate with the DPJ on the tax issue. He said the
LDP won’t support the government on a deficit-financing bill,
which Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  has said is essential if the
government is to ensure it doesn’t run out of money in October.  Alliance ‘Difficult’  “It’s difficult to ally yourself with a group that doesn’t
have a clear identity,” he said of the DPJ.  There’s no guarantee the LDP would win an election and form
the next government. Disenchantment with the major parties runs
deep: the approval rating for both the DPJ and LDP was 26
percent in a Nikkei newspaper poll published June 25.  Tanigaki, who has served for three years as party head,
faces his own leadership contest in September. A former finance
minister and a cycling enthusiast, he worked as a lawyer after
graduating from the law department of the  University of Tokyo ,
entering politics in 1983 after the sudden death of his lawmaker
father.  He said he wasn’t opposed to intervening in the foreign-
exchange market to stem the appreciation of the yen, which has
hurt Japanese exporters. The currency rose to the strongest
since 2000 against the euro this week, with  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt woes spurring its appeal as a haven for investors.  The yen rose 0.2 percent to 78.26 per dollar as of 11:41
a.m. in Tokyo after it climbed beyond 78 yesterday for the first
time since June 4. It reached a post-World-War-II record of
75.35 on Oct. 31.  Intervention Tool  “It is possible to intervene when such moves go against
the economic fundamentals,” said Tanigaki.  Japan  shouldn’t
abandon its right to intervene unilaterally, he said.  Turning to the arrival in Japan yesterday of 12 Osprey
aircraft, Tanigaki said the development has sparked safety
concerns, raising the danger of damage to relations with the
U.S. Japan asked the U.S., which plans to deploy the Ospreys at
an Okinawa base, for information about a June crash of the
aircraft in  Florida  that injured five as well as a fatal crash
in  Morocco  in April.  The plan to deploy the Ospreys, which can fly like an
airplane or like a helicopter, has sparked protests with about
5,000 people rallying in Okinawa last month.  “If there is an accident, the U.S.-Japan alliance will
become extremely difficult to handle,” Tanigaki said, urging
the government to conduct independent safety checks.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  