-- Japan Sees Wider Global Slowdown as China Growth Cools
-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-07-23T05:59:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/japan-sees-more-widespread-global-slowdown-with-china-cooling.html
China ’s economic outlook was cut by
Japan, its biggest Asian trading partner, as the Shanghai
Composite Index fell to its lowest level in three years on
concern about faltering domestic demand and export growth.  “The slowdown in the global economy is becoming more
widespread,” the  Cabinet Office  said in a monthly report
released in Tokyo today. Song Guoqing, an academic member of a
monetary policy committee, said July 21 that China’s expansion
may be 7.4 percent, the least since the first quarter 2009.  Japan’s increased pessimism echoes that of the
 International Monetary Fund , which lowered 2013 global growth
forecasts this month on Europe’s debt crisis and slower
expansions in  emerging markets  from China to India. Chinese
stocks fell today to the lowest since March 2009 as weakness in
corporate profits threatens to add to the drags on growth from
property-market curbs and limited export demand.  “The consensus is that China’s economic growth rate will
be close to 8 percent in coming months, but I personally am more
pessimistic because there are problems on the export side,”
Song said at a forum in Beijing.  The Shanghai Composite Index fell 1 percent as 1:57 p.m.
local time.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (358)  and China Shenhua Energy Co. led
a decline among commodity producers. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
tumbled 1.7 percent after German Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler
said yesterday that he’s very skeptical that Greece, a recipient
of EFSF bailout money, can be rescued.  “We face the probability of a slowdown in the short term”
in China, said Takahiro Sekido, a Japan strategist at Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in Tokyo and former  Bank of Japan (8301) 
official.  Yen Haven  Europe’s woes have bolstered the yen’s appeal as a haven
for investors, causing the currency to appreciate more than 5
percent against the dollar since mid-March and rise to a 11-year
high against the euro. Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
reiterated today that authorities are ready to take “decisive”
action on speculative and volatile movements in foreign-exchange
markets. The yen traded at 78.10 against the dollar in Tokyo and
the common currency touched 94.56 yen.  Japan’s government said that the expansion in China is
“slowing a bit,” lowering its evaluation of Japan’s largest
trading partner for a third month while leaving its assessment
of its own economy unchanged.  Elsewhere in Asia, Taiwan’s jobless rate unexpectedly fell
in June, and the government may say today industrial production
rebounded last month, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists. Australian wholesale price inflation accelerated in
the last quarter for the first time in more than a year, while
 Hong Kong  and Singapore will release consumer price data for
June.  Falling Confidence  The European Commission may say  consumer confidence  in the
euro area fell in July in an initial estimate of the data, a
separate survey showed. In the U.S., the Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Chicago will release its gauge of national economic activity for
June.  China's economy ``is still on a downtrend and that means
corporate earnings could be worse-than-expected,” said Wu Kan,
a Shanghai-based  fund manager  at Dazhong Insurance Co., which
oversees $285 million. “The government is slow to respond to
the economic slowdown and the market is disappointed at the
magnitude of pro-growth measures.”  Song’s forecast of a seventh straight quarterly slowdown in
growth would match the streak during the global financial
crisis, albeit not as deep. He spoke at a forum held by Peking
University’s China Center for  Economic Research  where he is a
professor specializing in  China’s economy  and inflation.  ‘Severe’ Market  A survey by the center of 22 domestic and foreign banks and
institutions had a median forecast for third-quarter expansion
of 7.8 percent, with Song’s estimate the second lowest. Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  has warned that his nation is yet to secure
the economic momentum needed for a recovery and the situation in
the job market may become more “severe.”  Song, who studied economics at the  University of Chicago 
from 1991 to 1995, was appointed one of three academic advisers
to the central bank in March when the two-year term of his
predecessor ended.  “Sharp fluctuations” in financial markets stemming from
global uncertainty could hurt  Japan ’s growth prospects, the
Japanese government said.  The government reiterated that the economy is “on the way
to recovery at a moderate pace” in part because of rebuilding
projects. Still, turmoil in Europe has boosted haven demand for
the yen that could hurt exports, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  