-- Joh. A. Benckiser to Buy Peet’s Coffee for About $1 Billion
-- B y   C e l e s t e   P e r r i   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-07-23T20:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/joh-a-benckiser-to-buy-peet-s-coffee-for-about-1-billion.html
Joh. A. Benckiser agreed to buy
 Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. (PEET) , giving the closely held German holding
company about 190 specialty cafes in the U.S. and access to an
expanding grocery business.  The offer of $73.50 per share is 29 percent more than
Peet’s closing price of $57.16 on July 20. The transaction is
expected to be completed in about three months, Ludwigshafen-
based Joh. A. Benckiser and Peet’s said today in a statement.
Peet’s rose 28 percent to $73.05 at the close in  New York .  While  profit  at Emeryville, California-based Peet’s has
been hurt recently by surging coffee prices and increased
competition, sales in its grocery business have risen. The
company began selling Godiva brand coffees in grocery and drug
stores in 2009 to establish a bigger retail presence, especially
in flavored coffees.  The purchase is the second coffee-related acquisition by
Joh. A. Benckiser in less than a month. The group disclosed a
12.2 percent stake in  D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV (DE)  on July 3 and
has said it might increase its stake in the Dutch maker of
Pickwick tea and Senseo single-serve coffee pads, though it
planned to remain a minority investor.  “At JAB, we are committed to owning and investing in
companies with strong, premier-quality brands and great people
whose values we share,” Bart Becht, chairman of JAB, said in
today’s statement. Becht said he supports the management’s
“vision for future growth.”  Tom Johnson , a spokesman for JAB,
declined to comment further on the German holding company’s
strategic plans for Peet’s.  Competing Bids  “We would not be surprised to see certain shareholders
object to the deal or competing bids emerge,” David Tarantino,
a Milwaukee-based analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co., wrote in a
research note. “A higher price can be justified.”  Earlier today, Peet’s climbed as high as $74.60, indicating
investors may see potential for a higher bid  Becht became chairman of  Coty Inc. (COTY)  last year after stepping
down as chief executive officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group Plc.
Coty, in which JAB also has a majority stake, withdrew its offer
for Avon Products Inc. after the world’s largest door-to-door
cosmetics seller refused to negotiate and now plans to sell
shares to the public in an initial public offering.  JAB, the investment company of the German billionaire
Reimann family, is paying about 21 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization for Peet’s,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the
median of about 13 times Ebitda in a survey of five similar
deals during the past decade.  Folgers Coffee  The largest takeover in the coffee industry in that period
was JM Smucker Co.’s purchase of the Folgers coffee brand from
Procter & Gamble Co. Peet’s traded as high as $76.82 as recently
as April 30.  Peet’s was founded by Alfred Peet in Berkeley,  California 
in 1966, five years before Starbucks was started in  Seattle .
Peet mentored Starbucks’ co-founder Gerald Baldwin, who later
bought Peet’s and sold the Starbucks chain. Baldwin was Peet’s
chief executive officer for about 23 years and serves as a board
member.  Peet’s revenue increased 11 percent to $371.9 million last
year, while profit rose about 1.6 percent to $17.8 million,
according to a company filing. Peet’s has said it may enter the
market for brew-your-own single-serve coffee. Dunkin’ Brands
Group Inc. and  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  have deals with  Green Mountain 
Coffee Roasters Inc. to sell K-Cups for Green Mountain’s Keurig
brewer.  Single-Serve Coffee  “Peet’s lost out to Green Mountain for Diedrich, so it
didn’t get into single-serve technology, which was a mistake,”
said Marcia Mogelonsky, a food industry analyst at  Mintel  in New
York. Waterbury, Vermont-based Green Mountain bought Diedrich
Coffee Inc. in 2010, after a bidding war with Peet’s.  “The brand is underappreciated by coffee shoppers as it
doesn’t have the broad reach and reputation of Starbucks,”
Mogelonsky said. “But it is now protected from Starbucks and
can be nurtured and grown so that JAB can turn it around and
make some money from it.”  BDT Capital Partners LLC, the Chicago-based firm run by
 Byron Trott , a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. vice chairman, is
investing alongside JAB for a minority stake, the companies
said.  Citigroup Inc. acted as the exclusive financial adviser to
Peet’s and provided a fairness opinion to the board, while
Cooley LLP served as legal adviser. Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP provided legal counsel to JAB on the transaction, while
Morgan Stanley and BDT served as financial advisers.  Hillshire Spinoff  JAB’s offer for Peet’s was the second-largest for U.S.
beverage company deals completed this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The largest was  Downers Grove , Illinois-
based Hillshire Brands Co.’s spinoff of its international coffee
and tea business in June.  “Joh. A. Benckiser has been very active in acquiring
strategic stakes and this offer fits into the company’s
strategy,” said  Klaus Kraenzle , an analyst at Silvia Quandt &
Cie. in  Frankfurt , in a phone interview.  “Lots of companies are facing the problem of increasing
raw material prices affecting their margins and JAB’s offer is
an opportunity to help grow Peet’s business,” he said. “There
might be some synergies with Master Blenders but they are likely
to be limited because the two are different businesses operating
in different regions.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Celeste Perri in Amsterdam at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net 
Julie Cruz at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  