-- John Paulson Said to See 50% Chance That Euro Will Fail
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t   a n d   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 2012-07-23T19:02:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/john-paulson-said-to-see-50-chance-that-euro-will-fail.html
Billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson  told clients he sees a 50 percent chance the euro will
unravel, said an investor who listened to the comments.  An event causing a breakup may happen in three months to
two years, Paulson said on a conference call today reviewing
second-quarter performance, according to the investor, who asked
not to be named because the call was private. Paulson, who runs
Paulson & Co., said he expects sovereign yield spreads to widen.  Paulson, who posted a 16 percent loss from one of his
largest funds in the first half of the year, told clients in
February that  Greece  may default by the end of this March, and
said the European currency is “structurally flawed and will
likely eventually unravel.”  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for the $22 billion firm in New
York, declined to comment.  Paulson is seeking to recoup losses after his Advantage
Plus Fund fell a record 51 percent last year following failed
bets on a U.S. economic recovery.  Paulson said on today’s call that his firm has reduced risk
at some of its funds, according to the client. So-called net
exposure in its Advantage funds, which seek to profit from
corporate events such as takeovers and bankruptcies, is now 11
percent; at the Credit funds it’s minus 9 percent; and at the
Recovery funds, which bet on assets Paulson believes will
benefit from a long-term economic advance, it’s 31 percent, the
investor said.  Reducing Exposure  The Advantage funds had net exposure of 32 percent as of
the end of January, the Credit funds were at 27 percent and the
Recovery funds were at 55 percent, according to an annual letter
sent to clients in February.  Net exposure is calculated by subtracting the percentage of
a hedge fund’s short positions, or bets on falling securities,
from its long holdings, or wagers on rising stocks and bonds.  Paulson told clients today that employee capital represents
60 percent of the firm’s funds, according to the investor. It
was 53 percent earlier this year, according to the February
letter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net ;
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  