-- Julius Baer First-Half Profit Gains as Clients Add Funds
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-07-23T11:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/julius-baer-first-half-profit-gains-as-clients-add-funds.html
Julius Baer Group Ltd. (BAER) , the Swiss
wealth manager established in 1890, said first-half profit
climbed 19 percent after earnings in the year-earlier period
were cut by a payment to settle a German  tax-evasion  probe.  Net income rose to 175.5 million Swiss francs ($177
million), the Zurich-based bank said today, beating the 151.1
million-franc mean  estimate  of eight analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. While the bank attracted new client funds, revenue
margins on assets under management declined.  Switzerland ’s fourth-biggest money manager is targeting
acquisitions and building branch networks in  emerging markets 
and  Europe  as a crackdown on tax evasion pushes customers to
repatriate funds from cross-border accounts. Baer is still
seeking a settlement with U.S. tax authorities probing Swiss
banks that allegedly helped Americans hide money.  “While they’re winning new business, these declining
margins are acceptable,” said Arno Endres, an analyst at
 Luzerner Kantonalbank AG (LUKN)  in Lucerne, Switzerland. “The bank
still has other problems like being part of the list of banks
under investigation by the U.S. This issue needs to be tackled
and we don’t know what the cost will be.”  Baer gained 1.6 percent to 35.25 francs as of 1:41 p.m. in
Zurich trading, paring this year’s decline to 4.1 percent. That
compares with an 7.5 percent drop in the 38-company  Bloomberg
Banks and Financial Services Index  over the same period.  Client Activity  Chief Executive Officer  Boris Collardi  said today that the
outcome of talks with Bank of America Corp. about acquiring its
Merrill Lynch wealth business outside the U.S. was “still
open.” The bank is also screening acquisition opportunities in
Switzerland, he said in a Bloomberg television interview.  BSI Group, owned by  Italy ’s  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , is
an “interesting asset,” which Baer hasn’t pursued so far,
Collardi said at a  presentation  in Zurich.  Assets under management climbed to 178.8 billion francs by
June 30, from 178 billion francs two months earlier, as clients
increased deposits. Baer is trying to boost the amount of wealth
it oversees to counter declining profitability, Collardi said.  Net inflows of 5.5 billion francs, mainly from customers in
 emerging markets , beat the bank’s target of 4 percent to 6
percent annualized growth. The firm’s Asia business is
profitable and focused on winning Chinese clients, according to
Collardi.  Baer reported earlier that it has started a  joint venture 
with Bank of China Ltd., including taking over the Beijing-based
firm’s Geneva unit, which oversees less than 1 billion francs of
customer assets.  New Hires  Julius Baer also lured funds from Bank Sarasin & Cie. and
Credit Suisse Group AG’s Clariden Leu unit, from which it hired
a team of Middle East advisers, Collardi said.  Customers kept a “cautious investment stance” leading to
“relatively restrained transaction and trading activity,” he
said. That pushed the bank’s gross margin down to 98 basis
points in the first half, from 104.9 basis points in the year-
earlier period. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage
point.  The second half of the year may remain “difficult” for
clients if Europe doesn’t make progress on resolving its debt
crisis, according to the CEO.  U.S. Costs  The cost-to-income ratio, another measure of profitability,
worsened to 70.4 percent from 67.6 percent and was more than 4
percentage points higher than the top of the firm’s target
range.  Julius Baer  posted 14 million francs in legal and other
costs related to the U.S. tax matter, adding to 8.4 million
francs booked last year as general expenses.  The firm said Feb. 6 it expects to pay a fine and hand over
client data to U.S. authorities as part of a probe of 11 banks
that allegedly helped Americans hide money from the  Internal
Revenue Service . The bank, which exited its U.S. private-client
business between 2009 and 2011, reiterated that the size of the
fine isn’t possible to estimate and consequently no provision
has yet been made.  Profit was crimped in the first half of 2011 after Baer
agreed to pay German authorities 50 million euros ($60 million)
to end an investigation over undeclared client assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  