-- Kirkland, Kaye Scholer, Cravath: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-24T13:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/kirkland-kaye-scholer-cravath-foley-steptoe-business-of-law.html
(Corrects Littler headline and shareholder attribution in
Moves section of column published yesterday.)  Kirkland & Ellis LLP partner and
former federal judge Mark Filip was selected to be co-chairman
of a panel to find a successor to Chicago’s former U.S.
attorney, Patrick Fitzgerald. Retired U.S. District Judge David Coar will be the other co-chairman of the committee.  Dick Durbin , a Democrat,  Mark Kirk , a Republican, both U.S.
senators from  Illinois , announced the six-person screening
committee July 20 in a statement.  Additional members include Kaye Scholer LLP partner
Zaldwanaka “Z” Scott, a former assistant U.S. attorney;
McGuireWoods LLP partner Christina Egan, also a former federal
prosecutor; Terence MacCarthy, former executive director of the
Federal Defender Program; and former prosecutor Lawrence Oliver
II, who now works as chief counsel, investigations at Boeing Co.  Filip previously was the U.S. Deputy Attorney General,
after being confirmed by the Senate in 2008. He served as Acting
Attorney General for the new administration in January 2009,
until Attorney General Eric Holder was confirmed. He spent four
years as a federal judge in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of Illinois.  At Kaye Scholer, Scott is the Chicago co-head of the firm’s
white-collar litigation and internal investigations practice.
From 1987 to 2003, she worked as a federal criminal prosecutor
in the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of
Illinois, serving in various management positions including
chief of the General Crimes Section.  Egan is in McGuireWoods’s government regulatory and
criminal investigations department. She spent 10 years as a
federal prosecutor for the Northern District of Illinois, from
2002 to 2012, where she served as a deputy chief of the
Narcotics and Gangs Section for the last four years.  The committee will screen and recommend candidates for
Illinois’ senators to review. The senators will submit a list of
names to the president, who will make a nomination to the  U.S.
Senate , which needs to approve the candidate.  Gary Shapiro  will serve as Acting U.S. Attorney for the
Northern District of Illinois.  Inside Traders Face Longer Prison Terms as Judges Get Tougher  Inside traders have more to fear when they stand before
Manhattan federal judges for sentencing.  Since Jan. 1, 2011, the judges have sent the average
violator to prison for more than 22 months, according to an
analysis of sentencing data by Bloomberg News. That was a 20
percent increase from the average term of 18.4 months during the
previous eight years.  The harsher sentences come three years into a federal
crackdown on  insider trading  on  Wall Street . Since August 2009,
federal prosecutors in Manhattan have charged 71 people with
insider trading and won 65 convictions, with six cases still
pending. Some of those convicted, including former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta , are awaiting sentencing.  “There are different insider-trading cases now,” Ellen Podgor, a professor at Stetson University College of Law in
Gulfport,  Florida , said. “You look at the individuals they’re
going after now -- it’s a higher level.”  Judges in  Manhattan federal court  are also slightly more
likely to send offenders to prison. Twenty-one of 36 defendants
sentenced for insider trading since the start of 2011 -- or 58
percent -- were jailed. By comparison, 24 of the 43 defendants
sentenced from 2003 through 2010, or 56 percent, lost their
freedom. Of late, most of those who avoided prison cooperated
with the government.  The longer terms for insider trading are consistent with
lengthier terms nationally for all forms of fraud. According to
U.S. Sentencing Commission statistics, the average sentence in
fraud cases in fiscal 2011 rose to 23 months from 14.4 months
eight years earlier, a 60 percent increase.  The records confirm what defense attorneys have been
telling clients in recent years: It’s risky to take a case to a
jury. All of the seven defendants who have gone to trial in
Manhattan since Jan. 1, 2011, were found guilty. The average
sentence after trial was 58 months, compared with 22 months
during the same time for 18 who pleaded guilty.  For more, click here.  Dewey & LeBoeuf Partner Deal Decision Deadline Postponed  The chief restructuring officer for bankrupt law firm Dewey
& LeBoeuf LLP, Joff Mitchell, told former partners that the
deadline for a proposed $103.6 million settlement has been
extended two weeks, the American Lawyer magazine  reported  July
20. He also said there would be suggested revisions to the plan,
which has been criticized by the partners, the magazine said.  The team winding down the firm offered former partners a
chance to avoid clawback litigation if they give the firm
between $25,000 and $3 million apiece. That would bring the
total to $103.6 million from the more than 700 former firm
lawyers, including 371 who retired or left before January 2011
and received capital or pension benefits since then.  The revisions to the plan will be detailed at a meeting in
 New York  tentatively set for July 26, the magazine said.  Dewey, which at one time had more than 1,300 attorneys in
12 countries, suffered a flood of partner defections in April
and May amid concerns about the firm’s finances. The firm filed
for bankruptcy on May 28 owing more than $225 million to secured
lenders.  Ex-Progress Directors on Duke Board Hired Lawyer, McKee Says  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  directors who used to serve on Progress
Energy Inc.’s board have hired outside counsel to consider their
options.  The law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore LLP has been
retained, E. Marie McKee told the North Carolina Utilities
Commission at a hearing July 19.  McKee said she has given “a lot of consideration” to
resigning from the board after Progress Chief Executive Officer
 Bill Johnson  was replaced hours after Duke’s $17.8 billion
takeover closed.  The board met on July 2 and voted 10-5 to replace Johnson
with Duke CEO  James Rogers . All of the former Progress members
voted against the change.  Firm News  Foley Names Myles Berman Chicago Office Managing Partner  Myles D. Berman was named managing partner of Foley &
Lardner LLP’s Chicago office, effective Aug. 1. Berman succeeds
Mark L. Prager, who has held the role since 2004 and will now
focus on his bankruptcy and business reorganizations practice.  In his new role, Berman will be responsible for the
professional development and management of 300 attorneys and
staff. He will help formulate and implement strategy and
recruiting efforts while continuing to expand the firm’s
presence in the market.  Under Berman’s leadership, the Chicago office expects to
build its core practices in corporate transactional and
securities work, private equity, bankruptcy and business
reorganizations, energy, intellectual property and real estate,
the firm said in a statement.  Berman will also co-head the firm’s national government
relations practice, and will continue to be a member of the
government and public policy and environmental practice groups
and the energy industry team. He also serves as a director of
the firm’s federal political action committee and is a member of
the firm’s national pro bono committee.  Foley & Lardner has approximately 900 attorneys in 21
offices.  Moves  Assistant U.S. Attorney Joins Steptoe’s White-Collar Practice  Assistant U.S. Attorney Christopher Niewoehner, a deputy
chief in the Financial Crimes and Special Prosecution section of
the U.S. Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of
Illinois, will be joining Steptoe & Johnson LLP as a partner in
the white-collar criminal defense practice in the Chicago
office.  As an assistant U.S. Attorney for the past 12 years,
Niewoehner has investigated and litigated high-profile
corruption cases including U.S. v.  Rod Blagojevich , which
resulted in the July 2011 conviction of the former governor of
Illinois.  Niewoehner also served as the lead prosecutor in the two-
month trial and conviction of Tony Rezko, a top adviser to
Blagojevich charged with nine separate fraud schemes. He also
led the prosecution of Edward “Fast Eddie” Vrdolyak, a Chicago
businessman and politician convicted of defrauding a medical
school in a multimillion dollar real estate deal, the firm said.  Steptoe & Johnson has more than 500 lawyers and other
professionals in offices in Beijing, Brussels, Chicago, London,
 Los Angeles , New York, Phoenix,  Washington  and Century City,
 California .  King & Spalding Hires Patent Litigator in California  King & Spalding LLP has recruited patent litigator William
F. Abrams, Bingham McCutchen LLP’s former co-chairman of the
intellectual property practice, to the firm’s Silicon Valley
office, the firm said in a statement.  Abrams has 30 years’ experience as an intellectual property
lawyer. He focuses on patent litigation and trade secrets
disputes.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Seyfarth Shaw Hires General Counsel From RNK Capital  Seyfarth Shaw LLP announced that A. Donald Lepore has
joined the firm’s corporate department as a partner in New York.
Lepore joins from RNK Capital LLC, a private investment firm
specializing in the environmental, clean technology and
renewable energy sectors, where he served as general counsel for
the past four years, the firm said in a statement.  At RNK Capital, Lepore oversaw transactions and investments
and was also responsible for investment fund formation,
regulation and compliance. His practice focuses on public and
private mergers, acquisitions and dispositions, joint ventures
and financing transactions, as well as private investment fund
formation and regulation.  Seyfarth Shaw has over 800 attorneys located in 10 offices
throughout the U.S.  Jones Day’s Silicon Valley Office Hires Two Partners  Jones Day  announced that Neal Stephens and Greg Chin have
joined the firm as partners in the Silicon Valley, California,
office.  Stephens comes to Jones Day from the Palo Alto, California,
office of Cooley LLP, where he was a partner in the litigation
department, the firm said. He is now a member of Jones Day’s
corporate criminal investigations practice.  Chin joins the firm from the Menlo Park, California, office
of Latham & Watkins LLP, where he was a partner in the emerging
companies practice, the firm said. He is now a member of Jones
Day’s capital markets practice.  With these hires, Jones Day’s Silicon Valley office now has
53 lawyers including 20 partners. In California, Jones Day has
more than 320 lawyers in five offices. Worldwide, the firm has
more than 2,400 lawyers.  Haynes and Boone Hires Corporate Partner in Houston  George Y. Gonzalez, an attorney with experience counseling
U.S. and Latin American businesses in general corporate, energy
and mergers and acquisition law, has joined the  Haynes and Boone
LLP’s  Houston office as a partner in the international practice
group. He was previously at Bracewell & Giuliani LLP.  Gonzalez’s practice centers on mergers and acquisitions,
joint ventures, corporate control matters, securities, privately
held companies and international legal issues.  Haynes and Boone has more than 525 attorneys in 12 offices.  Littler Hires Venable Litigator in Washington  Littler Mendelson PC hired Linda Jackson, who was
previously a partner with Venable LLP and a former member of its
executive committee, as a shareholder in its Washington office,
the firm said.  Jackson will focus her litigation practice on a variety of
areas, with a particular emphasis on the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act ,
whistle-blower investigations, non-competition agreements and
litigation, trade secret disputes and related business
competition issues, the firm said.  Littler Mendelson has more than 900 attorneys and 56
offices.  Cozen O’Connor Adds Howard Grossman to Real Estate Practice  Howard Grossman joined Cozen O’Connor’s business law
department as a member in the firm’s real estate practice group.
He was most recently chief operating officer of Resource
Investments Limited, L.L.C, the firm said.  Grossman has more than 30 years in the real estate industry
and will work out of Cozen O’Connor’s Philadelphia office.  Cozen O’Connor has 575 attorneys at 21 offices.  Estate, Tax Lawyer Carole Sheffield Joins Anderson Kill  Anderson Kill & Olick PC announced that Carole B. Sheffield
has joined Anderson Kill as a shareholder in the firm’s
Philadelphia office. She was previously a partner at  Reed Smith
LLP , the firm said.  Sheffield concentrates her practice in estate and tax
planning and trust and estate administration, including real
estate matters. Sheffield is on the Adjunct Faculty at Temple
University Beasley School of Law and serves as an ongoing wealth
planning instructor and author for continuing legal education
programs at the National Business Institute and Pennsylvania Bar
Institute.  Based in  New York City , Anderson Kill has offices in
Newark,  New Jersey ; Philadelphia; Stamford, Connecticut;
Ventura, California; and Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  