-- Kodak Wins Appeal on Ruling It Didn’t Infringe Apple Patent
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-07-23T18:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/kodak-wins-appeal-on-ruling-it-didn-t-infringe-apple-patent-2-.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EKDKQ)  won an appeals
court ruling that it didn’t violate  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  patent rights
over a way to process digital images in a case that the iPhone
maker filed at the U.S. International Trade Commission.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, without
issuing a formal opinion, affirmed an ITC ruling from July 2011
that an Apple patent wasn’t infringed.  Notice  of the decision
was posted on the court’s website.  “The court has affirmed that Apple’s legal position in
this matter was without merit,” Chris Veronda, a Kodak
spokesman, said in a statement. “Our position has consistently
been that this dispute reflected Apple’s strategy of raising
legal arguments to distract from Kodak’s central assertion that
Apple and others have repeatedly violated our intellectual
property rights.”  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , filed the case
against Kodak after being targeted in a patent suit by Kodak. In
the case Kodak filed against Apple and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ,
the commission on July 20 said that a Kodak patent claim for an
image-preview feature was invalid.  Kodak, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  in January, is
relying on its patent portfolio to help fund a turnaround. The
company is auctioning off two groups of patents and plans to
announce winners on Aug. 13.  Patent Royalties  Rochester, New York-based Kodak has said in a court filing
that Apple owes it more than $1 billion in patent royalties.
Apple, which claims co-ownership of some Kodak patents because
of a research agreement from the 1990s, could have used a
victory in this case to lower any amount it might have to pay.  The ITC case originally involved two patents. Apple didn’t
appeal a finding that a second imaging patent it owned was
invalid, Kodak said. Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Apple,
said the company had no comment.  Kodak has a second case pending with the ITC against Apple
and  HTC Corp. (2498)  over patents related to image transmission. That
case is scheduled for trial in February, according to the
agency’s website.  The appeal is Apple Inc. v U.S. International Trade
Commission, 11-1592,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit ( Washington ). The ITC case is In the Matter of Digital
Imaging Devices and Related Software, 337-717, U.S.
International Trade Commission (Washington).  The Kodak case against Apple and RIM is In the Matter of
Certain Mobile Telephones and Wireless Communication Devices
Featuring Digital Cameras, and Components Thereof, 337-703,
USITC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  