-- Korea’s Won Slides, Bonds Rally on China’s Slowdown, Greek Woes
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-07-23T06:34:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/korea-s-won-slides-bonds-rally-on-china-s-slowdown-greek-woes.html
South Korea ’s won fell for a second
day and bonds climbed after a Chinese central bank adviser
forecast an economic slowdown and concern mounted  Greece  won’t
meet bailout targets, sapping demand for emerging-market assets.  The five-year government bond yield slumped to a record low
and the Kospi Index of shares fell as exchange data showed
overseas funds sold more of the nation’s shares than they bought
today, following two days of net purchases. Greece’s creditors -
- the European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  -- will arrive in Athens tomorrow to
assess how far off course the country is from bailout
commitments.  “Europe’s debt crisis still remains a cause of worry for
global markets,” said Kim Sung Soo, chief currency dealer at
 Industrial Bank of Korea (024110)  in Seoul. “The slide in stock markets
points to where the currencies are headed. Month-end exporter
deals, however, may help put a floor under the won.”  The won weakened 0.5 percent to 1,146.55 per dollar at the
close in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. One-
month implied volatility, a measure of exchange-rate swings used
to price options, rose 13 basis points to 7.40 percent.  The MSCI Asia Pacific index of regional shares fell 1.8
percent after Song Guoqing, an academic member of the People’s
Bank of China monetary policy committee, predicted the nation’s
expansion may cool to 7.4 percent this quarter from 7.6 percent
in the previous three-month period.  The yield on the government’s 3.5 percent bonds due March
2017 fell eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 2.92
percent,  Korea  Exchange Inc. prices show. Three-year debt
futures were 106.19 from 105.98 at the end of last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  