-- KPN German Towers Said to Draw Bids From EQT, Macquarie
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-07-23T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/kpn-german-towers-said-to-draw-bids-from-eqt-macquarie.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone
company partially controlled by Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim,
is drawing interest from infrastructure investors and buyout
firms for its German mobile-phone towers, according to four
people familiar with the matter.  Funds managed by EQT Partners AB, the Swedish private-
equity firm partly owned by the Wallenberg family, and  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG)  are among companies considering bids, said the
people, who asked not to be identified because the process is
private. KPN spokesman Stefan Simons and Macquarie spokeswoman
 Karen Smith  declined to comment. An official at EQT couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  KPN hired UBS AG to prepare a sale of the towers operated
by the German E-Plus unit in a deal that may fetch about 300
million euros ($364 million), the people said. UBS is preparing
information materials as well as non-disclosure agreements and
KPN may complete the sale in the third quarter, they said.  KPN is selling the towers as the Netherlands’ biggest phone
operator works on alternatives for its German unit after talks
on consolidation in the country fell through. Spain’s  Telefonica
SA (TEF)  and KPN had explored a combination of their German units
earlier this year as the former Dutch phone monopoly tried to
fend off an unsolicited offer by  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil
SAB. (AMX)   America Movil won the 28 percent stake it sought in KPN on
June 28, after separately increasing its holding in Telekom
Austria AG the same month. KPN is scheduled to report second-
quarter earnings today.  Tower Deals  Wireless carriers, including Sprint Nextel Corp. in the
U.S., have sold towers, which carry transmission equipment, to
companies that specialize in their management. The phone
companies then pay the tower operator for using the
infrastructure.  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the largest German phone company, set
out to sell T-Mobile USA’s towers after a failed takeover of the
unit by AT&T Inc. last year. The towers have attracted interest
from companies such as American Tower Corp. and Crown Castle
International Corp., a person with knowledge of the deal said in
June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  