-- Krishnan, Riady Face Off in Singapore Over Failed TV Deal
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-07-23T13:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/krishnan-riady-face-off-in-singapore-over-failed-tv-deal.html
T. Ananda Krishnan,  Malaysia ’s
second-richest man, and Indonesian tycoon James Riady faced off
in a Singapore court today as eight of Krishnan’s companies
sought an order to enforce a $300 million arbitration award.  Three of Riady’s companies said in their submissions for
the hearing that they didn’t consent to the arbitration
proceedings that awarded Krishnan part of the funds he had put
into a failed pay-television venture in  Indonesia .  Krishnan, worth about $7.8 billion according to data
compiled and calculated by Bloomberg, and Riady, whose Lippo
Group has media, financial services and property businesses in
 Asia , established the TV venture in 2005. They went on to do
deals including in telecommunications. The hearing at the
Singapore High Court beginning today and scheduled to end July
25 follows lawsuits in Indonesia, Malaysia and  Hong Kong .  Krishnan’s Astro All Asia Networks Plc, which said in 2008
that it ended the venture after its Lippo partners failed to pay
805 million ringgit ($254 million) in bills, declined to comment
on the dispute or reasons behind the breakdown in ties between
the two companies.  Lippo has said Astro stopped providing satellite services
to the pay-TV venture in October 2008 leaving “tens of
thousands of Indonesian consumers stranded.”  Riady’s assistant Lina Megawati didn’t return two telephone
calls or respond to an email seeking comment.  Singapore Arbitration  Lippo’s PT Ayunda Prima Mitra sued several companies and
individuals linked to Astro in Indonesia in September 2008.
Lippo claimed the lawsuit was in response to “threats by Astro
to stop providing services” to the pay-TV operations, according
to a regulatory filing in 2008. A month later, Astro started
confidential arbitration proceedings in  Singapore , a city-state
which sits between Indonesia and Malaysia.  A three-member arbitration tribunal in 2010 ruled that
Astro should get about $300 million from Lippo. To enforce the
awards, Astro sought orders from courts including in Hong Kong,
Malaysia and Singapore.  The arbitration was meant as a “trojan horse” for Astro
to shoehorn three of its units into the dispute and resist the
Indonesian lawsuits, Lippo’s lawyers said in their submissions
to the Singapore court.  “The question is simply was there consent to arbitrate,”
Lippo’s lawyer Toby Landau said in court today. There was never
any agreement to arbitrate with three of the Astro units,
Lippo’s lawyers said.  Astro’s lawyers are scheduled to argue their case tomorrow.  Natrindo  Following the pay-TV venture, Maxis Communications Bhd,
controlled by Krishnan, in 2005 bought a controlling stake in
Lippo’s PT Natrindo Telepon Selular for $100 million.  In 2007, weeks after Maxis bought the rest of Natrindo,
Krishnan announced that  Saudi Telecom Co. (STC)  would buy a 25 percent
stake in Maxis and 51 percent of Natrindo in an 11.4 billion
riyals ($3 billion) deal.  Krishnan, a former oil trader who conceived the Petronas
Towers development that transformed the skyline of  Kuala Lumpur ,
has investments in healthcare, pay-TV and energy.  Lippo, which owns Indonesia’s biggest publicly traded
developer, also owns stakes in a property trust in Singapore and
has interests in media and healthcare. Riady paid $8.6 million
in 2001 to the U.S. government for  violating  campaign laws by
making contributions to  Bill Clinton ’s 1992 presidential
election out of foreign corporate funds.  “I would have thought that a joint venture in satellite TV
in Indonesia between the Astro group and Lippo would make a lot
of money,” said Gerald Ambrose, who oversees 5.8 billion
ringgit ($1.8 billion) in assets as managing director of
Aberdeen Asset Management Sdn. in Kuala Lumpur. “To see it blow
up like that was a real shame.”  The Singapore cases are Astro Nusantara International BV v
PT Ayunda Prima Mitra OS807/2010 and OS913/2010. Singapore High
Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  