-- Neugebauer Seeks More Fed Papers on Libor Rate Abuses
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-07-23T18:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/neugebauer-seeks-more-fed-papers-on-libor-rate-abuses.html
Representative  Randy Neugebauer  is
seeking more information from the  Federal Reserve Bank of New
York  on its communications with banks that are involved in
setting the London interbank offered rate.  Neugebauer in a letter released today asked for all
communications from August 2007 until July of this year between
employees of the New York Fed and staff at the 16 banks
pertaining to Libor rate submissions. Neugebauer is a Republican
from Texas.  “There are still many outstanding questions that merit
further investigation,” Neugebauer, who serves on the House
Financial Services Committee, said in the letter addressed to
William C. Dudley, president of the regional Fed bank.  The Fed has come under increased scrutiny from lawmakers
critical of its record as a bank supervisor after the  New York 
Fed released documents on July 13 showing it was aware that
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  underreported Libor rates in 2008. Barclays was
fined a record 290 million pounds ($450 million) last month for
rigging  interest rates  and the scandal cost Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  his job. At least a dozen banks are being
investigated.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  defended the Fed’s response to
Congress last week, saying the U.S. central bank cooperated with
other regulators and suggested a fix. The documents released by
the New York Fed showed that  Timothy F. Geithner , then the
president of the regional Fed bank, sent a memo in June 2008 to
 Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  recommending changes to how
Libor was calculated.  Underreporting Submissions  The New York Fed also said in a statement on its website
that it was aware “some banks” were potentially underreporting
submissions for Libor as early as 2007. A Barclays employee told
a New York Fed staff member in April 2008 that the London-based
bank was understating its rate to avoid a “stigma,” the Fed
bank said.  “The documents you provided to the subcommittee revealed
that the New York Fed was made aware that certain financial
institutions were ‘not posting honest Libor’ rates,”
Neugebauer, who also asked for the first set of communications,
said in today’s letter.  “What is less clear in your response is how the New York
Fed dealt with admissions of market manipulation,” as “any
admission of market manipulation -- regardless of the degree --
should be swiftly and vigorously investigated,” Neugebauer
said.  Andrea Priest, a spokeswoman for the New York Fed, declined
to comment.  ‘Quite Quickly’  “The investigations took place, but they were taken up
quite quickly by not the Fed, which is a safety and soundness
regulator, but by the authorities that had the most direct
responsibility for those issues,” Bernanke said July 17 in
testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in  Washington . The New
York Fed “took the lead” and “informed all the relevant
authorities” in the U.K and U.S.  The Fed didn’t have information to suggest that banks were
manipulating rates “for profit,” only that some were
“possibly submitting low rates to avoid appearing weak” during
the financial crisis, Bernanke said. Still, misreporting of
Libor is “very troubling,” he said.  Geithner, now U.S. Treasury secretary, advised King in the
memo to “establish and publish best practices for calculating
and reporting rates, including procedures designed to prevent
accidental or deliberate misreporting.”  Geithner is scheduled to testify on July 25 before the
House Financial Services Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  