-- New York City Budget Gaps May Require Cuts, Control Board Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-23T21:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/new-york-city-budget-gaps-may-require-cuts-control-board-says.html
New York City ’s finances contain
risks and one-time revenue that may require cuts to reduce
spending next year, the state Financial Control Board said today
at its annual meeting.  The board, created to oversee city finances during the
1970s fiscal crisis, also credited Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  for
balancing the $68.5 billion budget for fiscal 2013 on time.  In his presentation at the meeting, the mayor cited the
record number of jobs and tourist visits, rising graduation
rates and an average  life expectancy  three years higher than the
U.S. average as evidence the city’s economic future is sound. He
also mentioned a thriving film- and television-production
industry and the creation of more than 140,000 units of
affordable housing.  “New York City has made a 180-degree turnaround since 1975,
when the board was formed to help draw the city back from the
brink of fiscal ruin,” Bloomberg said.  Some members described as a risk the city’s reliance on
$635 million from the sale of taxi medallions, a plan being held
up by litigation. Jeffrey Halis, president of Tyndall Management
LLC and a board member representing the financial industry,
questioned whether  New York  could sustain future costs of
pensions and retiree health care.  The city’s  spending plan  estimates a $2.5 billion deficit
to be closed in fiscal 2014, or about 3 percent of a projected
$72.4 billion budget.  “The increasing use of nonrecurring actions to balance
fiscal 2013 has left large out-year gaps still to be dealt
with,” said Jeffrey Sommer, acting board executive director.
“The city will need to continue its practice of developing
agency actions during fiscal 2013 in order to deal with the out-
year budget gaps.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  