-- News Corp. Journalists May Have Used Stolen-Phone Data
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-07-23T17:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/news-corp-journalists-may-have-stolen-phone-data-akers-says.html
News Corp.’s U.K. publishing unit,
under investigation by  London  police for hacking into voice
mails and bribing public officials, may have also taken
information from stolen phones.  The  Metropolitan Police Service  discovered that News
International journalists in Manchester and London had
information that appeared to be from stolen mobile phones,  Sue Akers , the force’s deputy assistant commissioner, said today.
She said the investigation is in an early stage.  Judge Brian Leveson is leading the inquisition into
journalistic practices after News Corp.’s reporters were caught
hacking into phones and computers and paying off public
officials for stories last year. The company shut its News of
the World tabloid in 2011 after the allegations surfaced. News
International had no immediate comment.  Eleven journalists currently on bail are scheduled to
report to police tomorrow to find out if they’ll face phone-
hacking charges, Akers said. The police are also considering
recommending further charges for police officers, journalists,
and others in the computer hacking and bribery investigations,
she said.  Former News International Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks has been charged with perverting the course of justice in
the probe.  Andy Coulson , the News of the World editor who became
Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s communications director, has been
arrested in London and charged with perjury in  Scotland  related
to his time at the tabloid. Both deny the accusations.  Hacking Victims  Separately, Akers said police have finished identifying
victims of phone hacking and have contacted more than 2,000
people, 702 of whom were probably targeted. While the actual
number of people who had their voice mails illegally accessed by
journalists or investigators to get stories is higher, the
police were unable to contact all of them, she said at the
media-ethics inquiry today.  The Leveson inquiry, which is in its final week of taking
evidence, will hear closing submissions today from the
Metropolitan Police, the Telegraph Media Group and Northern &
Shell Plc, which owns Express Newspapers and Channel 5 in the
U.K.  The ethics scandal is spreading to other tabloids as the
police dig deeper.  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI) , publisher of the  Daily
Mirror , allegedly paid public officials more than 14,000 pounds
($21,800) between 2006 and 2012 to get news, Akers said today.
Police have reason to believe that the payments wouldn’t meet
the conditions for a “public interest” defense, though Akers
emphasized that decision is in the hands of the  Crown
Prosecution Service .  60 Arrests  “We take any accusation against the company very seriously
and we are cooperating with the police,” Trinity Mirror
spokesman Nick Fullagar said in an e-mail. “We remain engaged
with the Leveson Inquiry.”  Justin Penrose, a crime reporter at the company’s Sunday
Mirror, and a former Trinity Mirror reporter who left in March,
were arrested this month on suspicion of making illegal
payments. A reporter with Express Newspapers, which Akers said
is also under investigation for payments to public officials,
was also arrested this month.  About 60 people have been arrested since the police
investigations began last year, including former News
International Chief Executive Rebekah Brooks.  News Corp. (NWSA)  shut
its most popular Sunday tabloid, the News of the World, in July
2011 after the  Guardian newspaper  reported that journalists had
hacked into a murdered teenager’s voice mail. The company also
scuttled a deal to acquire all of British Sky Broadcasting Group
last year.  Company Split  News Corp. Chief Executive Officer Rupert Murdoch stepped
down from the News International board last week in what the
company is calling standard “housecleaning.” Murdoch’s retreat
follows his son James who left his position as head of News
International this year to assume the deputy operating chief
role in  New York .  The company has also agreed, under shareholder pressure, to
split into two publicly traded entities -- separating the
troubled newspaper assets from the more lucrative television and
entertainment business.  Rupert Murdoch  is slated to be chairman
of both units.  News Corp. is working to stem the damages from hacking and
is working to resolve about 50 combined civil lawsuits before a
trial scheduled for February. A trial earlier this year was
canceled after an initial group of test lawsuits was settled.  News International lawyer Michael Silverleaf said last week
that about 250 alleged victims have sought out-of-court
settlements with the company, using a procedure it created and
that’s overseen by a former judge. He said about 79 deals have
been reached and they aren’t part of the current case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  