-- News Corp. Teams Up With AT&T to Offer Tablets for Schools
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-07-23T22:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/news-corp-teams-up-with-at-t-to-offer-tablet-system-for-schools.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s newly rebranded Amplify
education business announced a partnership with  AT&T Inc. (T)  that
will include a tablet-based curriculum for K-12 students.  Amplify, led by former New York City Schools Chancellor
Joel Klein, will work with AT&T to offer digital tools for
teachers and students, News Corp. said today in a statement.  Amplify will unveil its software and tools in a pilot
program beginning in September. The tablets, made available
through AT&T, will have cellular connectivity for students
without  Internet access  at home, Klein said in an interview.  “We’re bringing enormous educational software to bear on
this,” he said. “We’re very excited for the start of this.”  News Corp. began its push into the education market when it
acquired 90 percent of Wireless Generation Inc., a Brooklyn-
based startup, for about $360 million last year. The business
lost a $27 million bid to build an education data system for New
York State because of ties to its new parent company, which was
being investigated for hacking and bribery.  News Corp. CEO  Rupert Murdoch , a proponent of academic
reform, hired Klein to build an education business before the
hacking scandal erupted. Klein returned his full-time attention
to the division last month after serving as the head of News
Corp.’s internal committee investigating the matter.  ‘Very Interested’  “Rupert is very interested in this,” Klein said. “He’s
committed to it, and he’s spent a lot of time learning about the
business.”  Amplify will be part of News Corp.’s new publishing company
that will be spun off next year. Operating income at the
publishing unit, which includes the Wall Street Journal, New
York Post and Times of  London , dropped 32 percent from fiscal
2008 to 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A shift
to the Web has cut industry advertising and circulation revenue.  “I am confident that the resources necessary to support
the development efforts of Amplify will be available moving
forward,” Klein said.  Shares of New York-based News Corp. fell less than 1
percent to $21.82 in  New York  at the close. AT&T rose 0.3
percent to $35.38.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  