-- Nexen Call Volume Hit 4-Year High Before $15.1 Billion Deal
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 2012-07-23T21:03:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/nexen-call-volume-hit-four-year-high-before-15-1-billion-buyout.html
Trading in bullish  Nexen Inc. (NXY) 
options reached the highest level since 2008 before  Cnooc Ltd. (883) 
announced it would buy the energy company, including three
trades that may bring profits of more than $40 million.  A total of 47,302 calls traded on the Calgary-based
company’s  U.S. shares  last week, with bullish contracts reaching
24,554 on July 20, the most since March 2008, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. New York Stock Exchange-listed shares of Nexen
surged 52 percent to $25.90 today.  Call options that convey the right to acquire shares for a
given price by a certain date usually offer higher returns than
stock to traders speculating on takeover. Nexen said last year
it was exploring a sale and the departure of its chief executive
officer in January spurred speculation it might find a buyer.  “We often see these kind of things happen in deals,” John Buckingham, chief investment officer at  Aliso Viejo , California-
based Al Frank Asset Management Inc., where he oversees $500
million including Nexen shares, said in a phone interview. “It
doesn’t surprise me when you hear deals announced that there is
often something suspicious going on in the options market.”  Nexen spokesman  Pierre Alvarez  didn’t return a call and an
e-mail seeking comment.  Kevin Callahan  of the SEC declined to
comment on the options trading.  Cnooc,  China ’s largest offshore oil and gas explorer, said
today that it agreed to pay $15.1 billion in cash to acquire
Nexen in the biggest overseas takeover by a Chinese company. The
price is $27.50 for each common share, a premium of 61 percent
to Nexen’s closing price on July 20, according to its statement
to the Hong Kong stock exchange today.  Calls, Puts  An investor bought 23,000 December $19 calls and sold
11,500 December $16 puts on July 20, according to Joe Kunkle,
founder of OptionsHawk.com, a Boston-based provider of options
market data and analytics. The strategy profits if the shares
exceed the higher strike price by expiration and would make a
profit of almost $19 million at the $27.50 offer price.  The same strategy was used to buy more than 20,000
September $17 calls while selling September $16 puts on July 16
and July 17 for a potential profit of almost $22 million, Kunkle
said.  “The timing, size, and structure of these trades make it
appear that this deal was leaked,” Kunkle wrote in an e-mail
today.  While a slumping stock price led Nexen to consider options
such as a sale last year, the company decided it wouldn’t get a
high enough premium and instead should focus on fixing problems
at its Long Lake oil-sands facility, CEO Marvin Romanow said at
the company’s investor day on Dec. 1.  For Sale  “We looked at selling the company,” Romanow said at the
time. “We looked at selling major assets. We looked at setting
up separate companies. We looked at every financial re-
engineering that was done in our industry and in other
industries to see if there was a way to generate some value for
you sooner.”  The stock rose the most in three months on Jan. 10 with the
announcement that Romanow was exiting. Once worth as much as
C$22.8 billion ($22.4 billion), Nexen declined 20 percent during
Romanow’s three-year tenure.  Call volume on Nexen Canadian options rose to a  record 
16,682 on July 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That was 39
times more than the average for the previous 20 trading days. A
total of 20 puts changed hands that day, the data show.  “It looks suspicious,” said Frederic Ruffy, a senior
options strategist at WhatsTrading.com, who estimates the
investors made a profit of about $30 million on last week’s
trades. “The heavy volume in Nexen options last week was very
well timed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in  New York  at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in Amsterdam at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  