-- LNG Goes Extra 9,800 Miles as Europe Spurs Record Rates
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-07-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/lng-goes-extra-9-800-miles-as-europe-spurs-record-rates-freight.html
The biggest collapse in European
demand for liquefied natural gas in at least 12 years and record
Asian imports are sending fuel cargoes an extra 9,800 miles
around the globe and boosting tanker rates to the highest ever.  European consumption will drop 20 percent in 2012 as Asian
usage jumps 11 percent, according to Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
That’s spurring traders to ship LNG imported into  Europe  from as
far away as  Qatar  back on the same route and then on to  Japan .
Vessel rates will rise 54 percent this year, the median of six
analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg shows. Shares of  Golar
LNG Ltd. (GOL) , which operates nine of them, will gain 26 percent in
the next 12 months, according to the average of 12 estimates.  As European economies stagnate, Japan is importing more
fuel than ever as it replaces nuclear power shut off after the
earthquake and tsunami in March 2011. Two of 50 nuclear plants
are operational and LNG prices in the nation, the biggest
importer of the fuel, are about 44 percent higher than in
Europe. The biggest shortages in the LNG industry are in
shipping as the cargo surge overwhelms the fleet’s capacity,
according to the Paris-based  International Energy Agency .  “The shipping market will remain as tight as it is for the
next two years,” said Fotis Giannakoulis, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley in  New York . “The weak European economy is not helping
demand and they have excess capacity, so these imported volumes
are available to be sent to  Asia .”  Suez Canal  Some of the cargoes shipped to Asia originally came from
Qatar, the largest exporter to Europe. The journey from Qatar to
 Spain  via Egypt’s Suez Canal is about 5,900 miles, and from
Spain to Japan using the waterway is 11,500 miles, according to
 ACM Shipping Group Plc (ACMG) , a London-based shipbroker. Qatar to
Japan is about 7,500 miles. European consumers are importing the
LNG under long-term contracts that often don’t allow a change of
destination, Giannakoulis said.  Shipping costs reached a record $150,000 a day last month,
according to Arctic Securities ASA, an investment bank in Oslo.
They will average $152,000 this year, the Bloomberg survey
showed. Returns surged from as low as $36,000 in the middle of
2010 as ship owners failed to keep pace with an expansion in the
supply of LNG, liquefied by cooling natural gas to about minus
160 degrees Celsius (minus 256 degrees Fahrenheit).  Golar, based in Hamilton,  Bermuda , will report a more than
threefold gain in net profit to a record $170.8 million for this
year, the mean of 13 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
shows. Shares of the company fell 13 percent since the start of
January in New York as the Lloyd’s List-Bloomberg Top 50
Shipping Index of the largest companies declined 4.4 percent.  Import Terminals  At least 38 cargoes have been re-exported from terminals in
Spain, Belgium and France and taken to Asia or  South America 
this year, ship-tracking data compiled by Bloomberg and
information on the website of Enagas SA show. The data capture
vessels sailing from one European import terminal to another and
then sailing to a different continent and compare with 12 for
the whole of 2011, according to the  International Group  of LNG
Importers, which represents 68 companies in 21 countries.  One million British thermal units of LNG for delivery in
one to two months is priced at $14 in northeast Asia and $9.70
in southwest Europe, according to World Gas Intelligence, a
research company. The difference of $4.30 compares with a
shipping cost of $3.93, Arctic Securities estimates.  While that implies profit even with the jump in freight
rates, Asian prices are now declining in part because of the
additional supply from Europe. LNG costs have fallen for seven
consecutive weeks in northeast Asia to the lowest this year,
World Gas Intelligence estimates. Japan paid a record $17.04 per
million BTU in May, according to LNG Japan Corp.  Additional Cargoes  Slowing growth in  China  and Japan and contracting economies
across Europe may curb energy demand. Natural-gas consumption
fell 2.5 percent in 2009, the biggest drop in at least 44 years,
as nations endured the worst recession since World War II, data
from London-based BP Plc show.  Shipping rates may halt their advance next year because the
anticipated additional cargoes will require five new tankers,
while 22 are projected to join the fleet, according to  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR) , an investment bank in New York. Outstanding
orders at ship yards are equal to 22 percent of existing
capacity, estimates  IHS Inc. (IHS) , an Englewood, Colorado-based
research company.  Continued gains in cargo diversions may further increase
demand. The economy of the 17-nation  euro zone  will contract for
at least three more quarters, according to the mean of as many
as 20 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Regional
factory output fell 2.8 percent in May compared with a year ago,
government data show. Industrial demand accounted for 21 percent
of all gas consumption last year, according to the IEA.  Winter Demand  Each tanker holds about 155,000 cubic meters (5.5 million
cubic feet) of LNG that expands to 95 million cubic meters in
gas form, equal to about 25 percent of peak daily winter demand
in the U.K., Europe’s biggest gas market.  Awilco LNG AS (ALNG) , which operates three tankers, will report
net income of $41.9 million for this year, from a loss of $3.26
million in 2011, the mean of six analyst estimates shows. Shares
of the Oslo-based company fell 14 percent to 24.5 kroner ($4.02)
since the start of January and will reach 38.07 kroner in 12
months, according to the average of six forecasts.  The shortage of LNG vessels contrasts with a glut across
most of the merchant fleet. The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of
rates for shipping iron ore and coal, slumped 41 percent this
year, Baltic Exchange data show. The largest  oil tankers  are
losing money on their benchmark voyage from  Saudi Arabia  to
Japan, according to the London-based bourse, which publishes
costs along more than 50 maritime routes.  Investment Banking  While New York-based Bernstein estimates global trade in
LNG will expand 3 percent this year to a record 243 million
tons, the distances involved in shipping cargoes to Asia will
tie up vessels for longer periods. Demand for LNG carriers will
rise 15 percent this year, more than three times faster than
fleet growth of 4.6 percent, according to RS Platou Markets AS,
the  investment-banking  unit of Norway’s largest shipbroker.  “Re-exports from Europe are propping up this market,”
said Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic Securities in
Oslo whose recommendations on shipping companies returned 17
percent in the past year. “They double up miles for cargoes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  