-- Nigeria May Keep Benchmark Rate at Record High to Bolster Naira
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-07-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/nigeria-may-keep-benchmark-rate-at-record-high-to-bolster-naira.html
Nigeria ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged at a record high for
a fifth meeting to support the naira and curb inflationary
pressures.  The Monetary Policy Committee, led by Governor Lamido Sanusi, will hold the policy rate at 12 percent, according to 12
out of 13  economists surveyed  by Bloomberg News. Sanusi is due
to announce the decision at about 2:30 p.m. local time in Abuja,
the capital.  The central bank of  Africa ’s top oil producer boosted its
benchmark rate by 5.75 percentage points last year to help spur
foreign investment and bolster the naira. Inflation in excess of
the bank’s target of 10 percent is making it difficult for
Sanusi to ease monetary policy even as Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala raised concerns earlier this month that borrowing
costs are too high to support the economy.  “The central bank will only contemplate lowering rates
once there is a little bit more confidence in the stability of
the peg and once reserves are built a little bit higher,”  Alan Cameron , an economist at CSL Stockbrokers Ltd, said by phone
from  London . “The  exchange rate  is definitely the top priority
to the central bank.”  The naira has dropped 1.4 percent against the dollar on the
 interbank market  since the last MPC rate decision on May 22,
reaching its lowest level this year of 163.5 on June 15,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The central bank sells
foreign currency at twice-weekly auctions to restrict the naira
at about 3 percent above or below 155 per dollar. Imports
accounted for about a quarter of Nigeria’s gross domestic
product last year.  Inflation Peak  Inflation in Africa’s most populous nation is accelerating
as higher gasoline prices push up costs in the rest of the
economy. The central bank expects the inflation rate, which rose
to 12.9 percent in June, will peak at 14.5 percent in the third
quarter.  The bank may decide on a “symbolic” rate cut by the end
of the year, if the naira strengthens and inflation starts
slowing in September,  Samir Gadio , an emerging-markets
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a telephone
interview from London. Still, “a sharp cut by the MPC is
probably unlikely in 2012 because the exchange rate is still
under pressure and fiscal policy is quite loose.”  Nigerian lawmakers raised spending by 4.4 percent this year
and boosted the benchmark oil price on which the budget is based
to $72 a barrel from $70, giving the government more revenue to
spend.  Finance Minister  Okonjo-Iweala said on July 2 commercial bank rates of 20
percent may be restricting private investment, undermining
economic growth. Nigeria’s five-year and seven-year bond yields
hit record highs at a debt auction on July 18, boosting
government borrowing costs.  While economic growth is set to slow, a reduction in the
benchmark rate may not help to spur demand on its own, the MPC
said in May. Nigeria needs “structural reforms” in areas such
as power, infrastructure and security to support long-term
growth, the MPC said.  The statistics agency said in May the economy is forecast
to expand 6.5 percent this year, down from 7.4 percent in 2011
and lower than the government’s target of 7.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  