-- Nokia Junk Debt Rating Cut by Moody’s as Losses Mount
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-07-23T13:49:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/nokia-junk-debt-rating-cut-by-moody-s-as-losses-mount.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s debt, already at junk
status at the three biggest rating companies, was cut two
additional steps at Moody’s Investors Service as the mobile-
phone maker’s losses mount.  The long-term rating was cut to Ba3 from Ba1, three levels
below investment grade, Moody’s said today in a statement.  Fitch
Ratings  cut Nokia’s rating deeper into junk last week after the
Espoo, Finland-based phonemaker reported a wider second-quarter
loss and said its handset business probably won’t be any closer
to profitability this quarter.  “Nokia’s transition in the smartphone business will cause
deeper operating losses and consequently cash consumption in the
coming quarters than we had previously assumed,” Wolfgang Draack, a Moody’s analyst, said in the statement. Moody’s has a
negative outlook on Nokia.  The company has announced more than 20,000 job cuts and
shuttered production and research sites as it tries to offset a
continuing decline in revenue. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is betting on the Lumia smartphone running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
software to halt gains by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets using
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software.  Nokia’s 1.25 billion euros of 5.5 percent bonds due 2014
fell 0.07 percent today to 95.4 cents on the euro, pushing the
yield up six basis points to 8.84 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yield reached a record 11 percent on
June 26.  Shares of Nokia  fell  as much as 4.2 percent and declined
1.3 percent to 1.40 euros at 4:46 p.m. Helsinki time, near the
lowest level since 1994.  ‘Limited’ Effect  Nokia has  debt  of 5.2 billion euros ($6.3 billion). In
addition to net cash of 4.2 billion euros at the end of June,
Nokia said it has access to a 1.5 billion-euro revolving credit
facility without financial covenants until 2016.  “While we are disappointed with Moody’s decision, its
impact on the company is limited,” Timo Ihamuotila, Nokia’s
chief financial officer, said in a separate statement. “Nokia
will continue to focus on lowering the company’s cost structure
rapidly, improving  cash flow  and maintaining a strong financial
position.”  The cost of insuring Nokia bonds using credit-default swaps
has more than tripled this year and reached a record of 1,244
basis points on July 18. It added half a basis point, or less
than 0.1 percent, to 1,211 basis points as of 4 p.m. Helsinki
time, according to Bloomberg data.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  