-- Obama Puts Democrats Back in Welfare Reform Trap
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-07-23T22:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/obama-puts-democrats-back-in-welfare-reform-trap.html
Political controversy over
welfare is back after a 16-year hiatus.  As with the fight that started earlier this year over
whether Catholic organizations should be forced to provide
contraceptive coverage to their employees, a rule change
from the  Department of Health  and Human Services started
the dispute.  And once again, the Obama administration is on shaky
ground as a matter of both law and politics.  In 1996, a  Republican Congress  enacted, and President
 Bill Clinton  signed, a welfare-reform law that imposed a
“work requirement” on all states. Every state must make 40
percent of welfare recipients either work, look for work,
get on-the-job training, go to high school, get vocational
education or participate in job-readiness training. These
activities must take up at least 30 hours a week.  The bipartisan reform is generally considered a
success. Welfare caseloads dropped, employment rates for
single mothers increased and child poverty declined. Robert Rector, a policy analyst at the  Heritage Foundation  who
played a big role in writing and enacting the law, notes
that while the numbers have gone up and down with the
economy, all of them have stayed better than they were
before the reform.  Subverting Reforms  The law has nonetheless always had detractors in the
left wing of the  Democratic Party , who considered it
draconian. A few critics of the law resigned over Clinton’s
signing of it. Republicans suspect that the critics are now
subverting it.  On July 12, HHS  claimed  that  Kathleen Sebelius , the
department’s head, can let states out of the work
requirement. It says she will use that authority not to
undermine the goal of moving people from welfare to work,
but to give states flexibility in meeting it. She will
issue waivers only if those states present a solid plan to
improve their performance.  Ron Haskins , who also helped draft the law as a
staffer for  House Republicans  in the 1990s and now works at
the  Brookings Institution , says waivers might be helpful in
some circumstances. A state, for example, might have a
successful job-training program for welfare recipients
without it counting as work under the law. Haskins doesn’t
believe that the administration is trying to undo welfare
reform, and he thinks the state governments are much more
committed to moving people from welfare to work than they
were before.  Most Republicans are less trusting of the
administration’s intentions. And even Haskins criticizes
its methods (it didn’t consult with Republicans) and
questions the legal basis for the claim that it can hand
out waivers.  Until now, nobody has ever thought that the executive
branch has this power. Sebelius has noted that in 2005, a
lot of Republican governors -- including one  Mitt Romney  of
Massachusetts -- signed a letter saying they wanted more
flexibility in administering welfare dollars. They wanted
the HHS to have “increased waiver authority.” That’s true.  But as useful as that history is for an administration
seeking political cover, it undermines its legal claim. The
Republicans were seeking congressional action to give HHS
that extra authority. That’s why the letter was addressed
to  Bill Frist , who was Senate majority leader at the time.
They didn’t get what they wanted.  Executive Discretion  If it’s a good idea for the states to have more
control over federal welfare dollars, Congress should give
it to them. The executive branch shouldn’t simply grant
itself the power to ignore the law at its own discretion,
even with the reassurance that it will do so only when
wise.  If Congress takes up this issue, it should also extend
work requirements to other anti-poverty programs. Right
now,  food stamps  and public housing lack strong work rules.
Building on the success of such requirements is a cause
that  unites  Rector, Haskins and even the liberal poverty
expert Isabel Sawhill.  Haskins laments the current dispute: “A big part of
the problem here is trust and faith, of which there is
virtually none in  Washington .” By acting unilaterally under
a tortured interpretation of the law, the administration
has made that problem worse.  It has also created a political vulnerability for the
president. Work requirements are popular. Democrats
suffered for decades because the electorate thought they
were willing to spend money on a welfare system that asked
little from beneficiaries in return for tax dollars, and as
a consequence kept recipients dependent. In the middle of
an election year, Democrats have now given voters a reason
to wonder whether they have gone back to their bad old
ways.  ( Ramesh Ponnuru  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
senior editor at National Review. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials,
columns and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  replace Libor  and
on  Europe’s wake-up call ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on what’s next
for the  Arab Spring ; William Pesek on the  price of economic
growth  in  South Korea ; A. Gary Shilling on higher
education’s  broken financing model ; Betsey Stevenson and
 Justin Wolfers  on  sham economics ; Bill Mallon on  obscure
sports  in past Olympics; Ilian Scarlatov on why  Greece
should act like Bulgaria .  To contact the author of this column:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  