-- Obama Would Visit Israel During Second Term, Campaign Aide Says
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-23T16:42:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/obama-would-visit-israel-during-second-term-campaign-aide-says.html
President  Barack Obama  will visit
Israel in a second term if he’s re-elected, according to a
campaign adviser.  Colin Kahl, former deputy assistant secretary of Defense
for the Middle East, told reporters on a campaign conference
call that voters can expect Obama to make the trip.  Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney leaves
tomorrow for a trip abroad that’s scheduled to include stops in
the U.K., Israel and Poland.  While Obama has stressed his commitment to Israel’s
security, Romney has criticized the president for how he’s dealt
with Israel’s adversaries, such as Iran.  Obama has also had public disagreements with Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  about issues such as limiting Jewish
settlement construction in Palestinian areas as well as the
approach to Iran.  During the Republican primary season, Romney accused Obama
of repeatedly throwing Israel “under the bus” and said his
policy toward the Jewish state would differ from the
incumbent’s.  Obama won in 2008 with 78 percent of Jewish voters,
according to national exit polls. With both campaigns
forecasting a close election, the candidates are fighting for
every constituency group.  Kahl dismissed criticism of Obama for not having visited
Israel as president. Former President  George W. Bush  didn’t go
to Israel as president until the last year of his second term,
and former President  Ronald Reagan  never visited Israel during
his eight years in office, Kahl said.  Obama last went to Israel as a presidential candidate in
July 2008. While he hasn’t been there as president, that says
nothing about his commitment to the country’s national security,
Kahl said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  