-- Obama Courts Veterans’ Support as Election Campaign Resumes
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-24T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/obama-courts-veterans-support-raises-money-as-campaign-resumes.html
A day after a somber visit with
families and victims of the movie theater shooting in  Colorado ,
President Barack Obama resumed campaigning for re-election,
courting support among the nation’s oldest and biggest combat
veterans’ organization.  Obama addressed the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention
yesterday in Reno,  Nevada , as opinion polls show high approval
ratings on national security and foreign policy. He said his
record -- ending the war in  Iraq , setting a timetable for
winding down the war in  Afghanistan , killing  Osama bin Laden  and
creating economic benefits for soldiers returning home --
demonstrates his support for current and former service members.  “As we look ahead to the challenges we face as a nation
and the leadership that’s required, you don’t just have my
words, you have my deeds,” Obama said. “You have the promises
I’ve made and the promises that I’ve kept.”  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  speaks to the
same group today. The former Massachusetts governor will be
outlining his foreign policy views just before leaving for a
six-day trip to England, Poland and Israel. The VFW podium gives
Romney a chance to contrast his plans with those of Obama, who
he says has weakened the U.S. position in the world.  With the election less than four months away, the two
candidates are resuming their campaigns in an election that
their polls say will be decided by a narrow margin. That means
both campaigns are competing for every constituency.  Tough Sell  Veterans, who exit polls showed accounted for about 15
percent of the electorate in the 2008 presidential election,
remain a tough sell for the Democratic president.  “Even though the VFW isn’t the sweet spot for the
electorate for  Barack Obama , it makes sense for him to show his
flag, to reach out, to talk to them,” said Stu Rothenberg,
editor of the nonpartisan Rothenberg Political Report in
 Washington . “He knows this isn’t his natural constituency but
when you’re president, you do this.”  “I think he’ll still lose them,” Rothenberg said.  Obama interrupted his schedule July 22 to meet families of
victims in the shooting at an Aurora, Colorado, movie theater.
Obama and Romney suspended their campaigns in the immediate
aftermath of the July 20 incident, which left 12 people dead and
58 injured. They also suspended broadcasting political ads in
Colorado.  Afghanistan Withdrawal  While Obama never mentioned his political opponent
directly, he said some critics opposed his decision to set a
timeline for a withdrawal of U.S. forces in Afghanistan.  “When you’re commander in chief you owe your military” a
plan for ending a conflict, Obama said.  Later, the president attended three fundraisers in
 California  that collected at least $3.4 million. At a private
dinner in Piedmont, California, outside Oakland, Obama said that
while the  U.S. economy  is recovering, “the challenges we’ve
seen in Europe are blowing back onto our shores.”  The dinner was hosted by progressive activist-
philanthropist Quinn Delaney and her husband, real estate
developer and Obama bundler Wayne Jordan. Sixty guests paid
$35,800 each to attend, the Obama campaign said in an e-mail.  Obama is scheduled to travel today to  Portland ,  Oregon , and
 Seattle  for more campaign events and fundraisers. Tomorrow,
he’ll be in New Orleans for campaign events and fundraisers,
concluding with a speech to the National Urban League before
returning to Washington.  Toss-Up States  In a close election, even a small advantage with one
constituency can be critical. The veterans’ vote may be
influential in such toss-up states as  Virginia ,  Florida  and
 North Carolina .  In 2008, Republican  John McCain , a decorated former
prisoner of war in  Vietnam , captured 54 percent of the veterans’
vote compared with 44 percent for Obama. Thirty-five percent of
veterans voting in 2008 identified themselves as Democrats, 34
percent as Republicans and the balance were independents, exit
polls conducted for national television networks showed.  Rothenberg said any credible Republican nominee is going to
have an advantage among veterans, who he said tend to be older,
white and patriotic, and “look and sound more Republican than
the rest of the country.”  Still, “Mitt Romney is not John McCain, when it comes to
personal heroism, national military service,” Rothenberg said.  Neither Obama nor Romney served in the military.  ‘Diverse Organization’  Romney has spent little time campaigning on military or
defense issues, Rothenberg said, because “they’ve decided the
election is about jobs, jobs, jobs and the economy.” National
security “is a tiny part of that campaign.”  Support for Romney isn’t a foregone conclusion. Veterans
narrowly favored Democrat  Bill Clinton , who was criticized for
avoiding military service during Vietnam, over World War II
veteran  George H.W. Bush  in 1992.  “We are a diverse organization” by geography, age, and
nationality, Richard L. DeNoyer, 69, national commander of the
VFW and a retired Marine and Vietnam combat veteran from
Middleton, Massachusetts, said in a telephone interview July 20.  The VFW doesn’t endorse presidential candidates. “We are a
relatively conservative organization when it relates to national
security and the military and protecting the nation.”  Members attending the 113th annual convention are concerned
about the war in Afghanistan, turmoil in the Middle East and
economic belt tightening at home and the effect on veteran and
military health-care programs, he said.  Economic Concerns  Unemployment among veterans of the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan was 9.5 percent in June, not seasonally adjusted,
compared with 13.3 percent in the same month a year earlier,
according to the Labor Department. That’s worse than the 8.2
percent  jobless rate  for the nation as a whole.  “I haven’t taken a survey, but hearing people talk, I
think they’re very, very concerned about the economy, and in
this election, the economy may be more important,” DeNoyer
said.  Veterans as a group have some specific concerns. The
Veterans Department is overwhelmed by a decade of fighting
overseas, Bloomberg News reported May 23. Record numbers of ex-
soldiers are turning to the government for disability pay, for
example, adding to a backlog of claims and delays that have
dogged the agency for years.  Disability cases filed with the department climbed 48
percent over the past four years to 1.3 million in 2011. About
905,000 claims are pending at the department, and about two-
thirds of them are taking longer than the agency’s 125-day
target for addressing them, the department said in May.  A federal court ruling in May 2011 said it takes an average
of more than four years for veterans to receive a final
decision. Many have died waiting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Reno, Nevada at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  