-- Oil Tumbles Most This Year on European Debt Crisis
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-07-23T20:36:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/oil-tumbles-on-concern-european-debt-crisis-is-deepening.html
Oil plunged the most this year on
concern that Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis is deepening and as
a Chinese central-bank adviser said the country’s economic
expansion may slow further.  Futures fell 4 percent as the cost of insuring Spanish debt
surged to a record. Greece’s creditors will gather this week
amid doubts that the nation will meet bailout targets. Growth in
China, the second-biggest crude consuming country, may cool for
a seventh straight quarter, said Song Guoqing, a member of the
People’s Bank of China monetary policy committee.  “Worries about the  European debt crisis  are overshadowing
everything else,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at the
Price Futures Group in Chicago. “The prospect of a deflationary
spiral is back haunting us, especially given the signs of a
Chinese slowdown. This is bad for the outlook for commodity
demand, especially oil.”  Crude oil for September delivery fell $3.69 to settle at
$88.14 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It was the
biggest decrease for a front-month contract since Dec. 14.
Prices are down 11 percent this year.  Brent oil for September settlement declined $3.57, or 3.3
percent, to end the session at $103.26 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark
contract traded at a $15.12 premium to West Texas Intermediate
crude, the grade traded in  New York .  Spain and Italy moved to ban short-selling of stocks as
prices decreased. The euro dropped as much as 0.7 percent to
$1.2067 today, the lowest level since June 2010. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities decreased 2.8 percent, led
by crude oil.  ‘Continuing Saga’  Catalonia, Castilla-La-Mancha, Murcia, the  Canary Islands 
and the Balearic Islands are among the Spanish regions that have
said they may ask for aid from the central government after
Valencia sought a bailout last week, El Pais reported. The
Catalan regional government is trying to negotiate a bridge loan
with undisclosed financial entities, the newspaper said.  “The continuing saga of the euro, and in particular the
travails of Spain and fears that this will soon be played out in
France and Italy, is driving today’s selloff,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in London, who
predicts further price losses may be limited.  German Vice Chancellor Philipp Roesler said he’s “very
skeptical” that European leaders will be able to rescue Greece.
The European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  will meet in  Athens  to determine the
fiscal position of Greece, which has been struggling to hold to
obligations tied to 240 billion euros ($290.2 billion) of rescue
funds over the past two years.  Greek Disbursement  The IMF, which indicated in March it won’t commit more
money to Greece, will make a decision on its next disbursement
in late August at the earliest based on the findings, two fund
officials familiar with the situation said in recent days.  “We’re seeing massive swings based on the latest
headlines,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group
Inc. in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Today the focus is on the
European situation and a number of markets are plummeting.”  Economic growth in China may slow to 7.4 percent this
quarter, Song Guoqing said. Gross domestic product expanded 7.6
percent in the three months ended in June, the sixth quarterly
deceleration and the weakest pace in more than three years. Song
made the comments at a forum in Beijing on July 21.  Futures advanced to a two-month high on July 19 on rising
concern that instability in the  Middle East  will disrupt
supplies from the region.  ‘Conciliatory Language’  Iran  won’t block the  Strait of Hormuz  as long as it has
access to the waterway, the state-run Iranian Students  News
Agency  reported, citing Ali-reza Tangsiri, deputy naval chief of
the Revolutionary Guard Corps. Iran has threatened to shut the
strait, a transit route for a fifth of the world’s oil, in
response to sanctions aimed at halting its nuclear program.  “Prices climbed last week on Iran concerns,” Schork said.
“We had some conciliatory language from Iran, which allows us
to focus on the economic headlines and the outlook for demand.”  Hedge funds increased net-long wagers on West Texas
Intermediate crude, the grade traded in New York, by 4 percent
in the seven days ended July 17 to 133,165 contracts, according
to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly report
on July 20.  In London,  hedge funds  and other money managers bolstered
 bullish bets  on Brent oil by 18,678 contracts, or 31 percent, in
the week ended July 17, data from ICE Futures Europe showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 405,011
contracts as of 3:17 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 469,631
contracts on July 20, 16 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.39 million, the lowest level since Jan. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  