-- Oil Drops Most in a Month as European Debt Turmoil Intensifies
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-07-23T12:58:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/oil-drops-most-in-a-month-as-european-debt-turmoil-intensifies.html
Oil plunged the most in a month in
New York amid renewed concern that  Europe  is failing to resolve
its sovereign debt crisis.  Futures for September delivery tumbled as much as 4.2
percent as the euro dropped to an 11-year low against the yen
and the cost of insuring Spanish debt surged to a record.
International creditors meet in Athens tomorrow as concern grows
that Greece may not meet its bailout targets.  Spain ’s stock-
market regulator banned trades to “constitute or increase net
short positions on shares.”  “The continuing saga of the euro, and in particular the
travails of Spain and fears that this will soon be played out in
France and Italy, is driving today’s sell-off,” said
 Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Jefferies Bache Ltd. in
London, who predicts further price losses may be limited.  Crude for September delivery fell as much as $3.82 to
$88.01 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $88.24 at 1:46 p.m. London time. Today’s 4.2
percent drop is its biggest intraday loss since June 21. Prices
are 11 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange dropped as much as $4.41, or 4.1
percent, to $102.42 a barrel. The European benchmark crude was
at a $14.60 premium to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate
grade. The spread was $15 on July 20, the widest in four days.  China Slowdown  A so-called technical “inside day” signals oil’s rally in
 New York  over the past two weeks may be stalling, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures on July 20 traded within the
previous day’s price range, creating the candlestick formation.
Sell orders may be clustered around chart resistance along the
upper Bollinger Band, at about $92.27 a barrel today.  Economic growth in  China , the world’s second-largest crude
consumer, may slow to 7.4 percent this quarter, according to
Song Guoqing, an academic member of the People’s Bank of China
monetary policy committee. Gross domestic product expanded 7.6
percent in the three months ended June, the sixth quarterly
deceleration and the weakest pace in more than three years. Song
made the comments at a forum in Beijing on July 21.  The European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  will meet to determine the fiscal
position of Greece, which has been struggling to hold to
obligations tied to 240 billion euros ($291 billion) of rescue
funds over the past two years.  Consumer Confidence  The IMF, which indicated in March it won’t commit more
money to Greece, will make a decision on its next disbursement
in late August at the earliest based on the findings, two fund
officials familiar with the situation said in recent days.  Consumer confidence  in the euro area this month probably
fell to the lowest since February, a Bloomberg News survey
showed before the release of data today. The European Union
consumed 16 percent of the world’s oil last year, according to
BP Plc’s annual Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S.
accounted for 21 percent and China for 11 percent.  The euro slid as much as 1.3 percent to 94.24 versus the
yen, the least since November 2000.  “The Spanish or European story will result in repeated
volatility in the market,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , the chief economist
at  National Commercial Bank  in Jeddah, said by phone yesterday.
“We are still not clear on what the policy options will be.
Demand-erosion concerns keep coming back.”  Iraq  resumed oil exports to  Turkey  after an explosion shut
a pipeline that carries as much as 350,000 barrels a day,
Sumaria News reported July 21, citing an unidentified Iraqi
official.  The Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, claimed
responsibility for the Iraqi explosion, Sumaria News said. The
July 20 blast damaged one of two pipelines that transport oil
from Kirkuk in northern Iraq to the Turkish port of Ceyhan, the
 Associated Press  reported. Both pipelines were closed, AP said.  Hedge funds  increased net-long wagers on West Texas
Intermediate crude, the New York benchmark, by 4 percent in the
seven days ended July 17 to 133,165 contracts, according to the
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly report on
July 20.  In London, hedge funds and other money managers bolstered
 bullish bets  on  Brent crude  by 18,678 contracts, or 31 percent,
in the week ended July 17, according to data from ICE Futures
Europe.  Speculative bets that prices will rise, in futures and
options combined, outnumbered short positions by 78,682 lots,
the London-based exchange said today in its weekly Commitment of
Traders report. That compares with net-longs of 60,004 contracts
a week earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  