-- Oil Drops a Second Day on China Slowdown, Europe Crisis
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   Y e e   K a i   P i n
-- 2012-07-23T07:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/oil-declines-a-second-day-in-new-york-amid-europe-debt-concern.html
Oil dropped the most in almost two
weeks in New York amid speculation global fuel demand will
falter as  China’s economy  slows and Europe struggles to control
its debt crisis.  Futures slid as much as 2.2 percent after a Chinese central
bank adviser said the nation’s economy may cool further.
International creditors meet in Athens tomorrow amid concern
Greece may not meet its bailout targets, and after an aid
package for Spain failed to prevent the euro declining to the
lowest in more than two years against the dollar.  Iraq  resumed
oil exports to Turkey after an explosion shut a pipeline that
carries as much as 350,000 barrels a day, Sumaria News reported
July 21, citing an unidentified Iraqi official.  “Europe’s debt crisis is continuing and  China  is becoming
a concern,”  Ken Hasegawa , a commodity-derivative sales manager
at Newedge Group in  Tokyo , said by phone. “There’s also still a
lot of crude-oil supply in the market, so everyone understands
the upside for prices will be limited.”  Crude for September delivery fell as much as $2.06 to
$89.77 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $89.78 at 2:40 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract decreased 1.2 percent to $91.83 on July 20. Prices are
9.2 percent lower this year.  Brent oil for September settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange dropped as much as $2.29, or 2.1
percent, to $104.54 a barrel. The European benchmark crude was
at a $14.90 premium to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate
grade. The spread was $15 on July 20, the widest in four days.  China Slowdown  A so-called technical “inside day” signals oil’s rally in
 New York  over the past two weeks may be stalling, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Futures on July 20 traded within the
previous day’s price range, creating the candlestick formation.
Sell orders may be clustered around chart resistance along the
upper Bollinger Band, at about $92.27 a barrel today.  Economic growth in China, the world’s second-largest crude
consumer, may slow to 7.4 percent this quarter, according to
Song Guoqing, an academic member of the People’s Bank of China
monetary policy committee. Gross domestic product expanded 7.6
percent in the three months ended June, the sixth quarterly
deceleration and the weakest pace in more than three years. Song
made the comments at a forum in Beijing on July 21.  The European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund  will meet to determine the fiscal
position of Greece, which has been struggling to hold to
obligations tied to 240 billion euros ($291 billion) of rescue
funds over the past two years.  Consumer Confidence  The IMF, which indicated in March it won’t commit more
money to Greece, will make a decision on its next disbursement
in late August at the earliest based on the findings, two fund
officials familiar with the situation said in recent days.  Consumer confidence  in the euro area this month probably
fell to the lowest since February, a Bloomberg News survey
showed before data today. The European Union consumed 16 percent
of the world’s oil last year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s annual
Statistical Review of World Energy. The U.S. accounted for 21
percent and China for 11 percent.  “The Spanish or European story will result in repeated
volatility in the market,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , the chief economist
at  National Commercial Bank  in Jeddah, said by phone yesterday.
“We are still not clear on what the policy options will be.
Demand-erosion concerns keep coming back.”  The Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK, claimed
responsibility for the Iraqi explosion, Sumaria News said. The
July 20 blast damaged one of two pipelines that transport oil
from Kirkuk in northern Iraq to the Turkish port of Ceyhan, the
 Associated Press  reported. Both pipelines were closed, AP said.  Hedge funds  increased net-long wagers on oil by 4 percent
in the seven days ended July 17 to 133,165 contracts, according
to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s weekly report
on July 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Yee Kai Pin in Singapore at 
 kyee13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  