-- Oil Advances From One-Week Low on China Manufacturing
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-07-24T06:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/oil-falls-a-third-day-after-biggest-decline-this-year.html
Oil rebounded from the lowest close
in a week in  New York  after a Chinese manufacturing index
signaled an economic slowdown may be easing in the world’s
second-largest crude user.  Futures increased as much as 0.9 percent after slipping 4
percent yesterday. A preliminary reading for a purchasing
managers’ index released today by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics was at 49.5. If confirmed, that would be the highest
since February. The final number in June was 48.2. Oil also rose
before a government report that may show U.S. inventories fell
for a fifth week, the longest stretch in a year.  “The primary factor driving some buying now is the Chinese
manufacturing data,” said  Victor Shum , the managing director of
IHS Consulting in  Singapore . “If the crude-inventory data comes
in like the survey results, that would be supportive as well.”  Oil for September delivery gained as much as 80 cents to
$88.94 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $88.56 at 4:26 p.m. Sydney time. The
contract yesterday decreased $3.69 to $88.14, the lowest since
July 13. Prices are down 10 percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement advanced 39 cents to
$103.65 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The contract yesterday slipped 3.3 percent to $103.26.
The European benchmark’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate was
at $15.09, from $15.12 yesterday.  Oil Supplies  Oil in New York has technical support at $86.59 a barrel,
along the lower of two so-called leading span lines that define
an “ichimoku cloud” on the daily chart, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The cloud is an area where buy orders
tend to be clustered. Last week’s price rise stalled near the
upper boundary, signaling chart resistance.  Crude stockpiles probably shrank  1.5 million barrels  and
gasoline inventories declined 500,000 barrels, according to the
median estimate of seven analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
before an Energy Department report tomorrow. U.S. refinery
utilization probably fell 0.5 percentage points last week after
dropping 0.7 percentage points the prior week, the survey shows.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  