-- Hollande Transaction Tax Drives Investor Quest for Loopholes
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-07-24T08:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/hollande-transaction-tax-drives-investors-quest-for-loopholes.html
French President  Francois Hollande ’s
transaction tax is set to take effect Aug. 1. Not all investors
will be paying it.  To escape the tax, many institutional investors will turn
to so-called contracts for difference, or CFDs, offered by prime
brokers that let them bet on a stock’s gain or loss without
owning the shares. Traders have used it successfully to skirt
the U.K.’s stamp duty.  “We’ve never purchased U.K. stocks without using a CFD,”
said Fabrice Seiman, co-chief executive officer of Lutetia
Capital, a merger-arbitrage fund in Paris that oversees $100
million. “Now we’ll do the same for French stocks. It is
individual investors who are going to pay.”  France will become the first European country to impose a
transaction tax on share purchases, including high-frequency
trading and credit default swaps. The levy, aimed at curbing
market speculation, will be paid on transactions involving 109
French stocks with market values of more than 1 billion euros
($1.2 billion), including Pernod Ricard SA and  Vivendi SA. (VIV)   The U.K., home to Europe’s biggest financial center, has a
stamp duty while opposing a transaction tax. German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  said on June 22 that she and the leaders of
France, Italy and  Spain  agree on the need for such a levy. The
other countries have yet to put one in place. Investors buying
U.K. shares pay a stamp duty of 0.5 percent on their purchase.  ‘Too Much’  France’s imposition of the levy may drive investors to
search for loopholes, said  Fabrice Couste , chief executive
officer of CMC Markets France in Paris, which sells CFDs and has
operated in France since 2010.  “People will see the bill and say ‘it’s too much, we have
to find a way to avoid it,’” he said. “The stamp duty in the
U.K. made a success of spread betting. France’s transaction tax
can do the same for CFDs.”  The Hollande government is planning to double the levy to
0.2 percent from the 0.1 percent tax initially advocated by
former President  Nicolas Sarkozy . It will be applied to
transactions resulting in “a transfer of property” of
companies trading in Paris, regardless of where the buyer or
seller is based, and may be expanded next year along with some
European partners.  France is banking on the tax to bring in 170 million euros
in 2012 and 500 million euros next year. The receipts will be
used to fund research for AIDS, Hollande said yesterday.  “It’s in that sense we are putting the financial
transaction tax in place as of Aug. 1,” he said.  Investors Out  The tax will be imposed on French stock purchases both
within France and beyond the country’s borders, although fund
managers said they can’t see how it will be applied to
transactions outside the country.  “How are they going to collect it?” said Dietmar Schmitt,
chief executive officer and chief investment officer of Sam
Capital Partners Ltd. in  London , a hedge fund that oversees a
little less than 100 million euros.  “If you trade a good offshore, who can charge a tax?” he
asked. “Nobody. The law has a big problem. It can only capture
the tax in France.”  The new tax will only exacerbate the flight of traditional
investors from the French market since the subprime crisis in
the U.S., said  Jerome Vinerier , market strategist at IG Index in
Paris, another seller of CFDs.  “This measure will discourage the long-term investor and
encourage speculation,” he said. “This will push individual
investors out of stocks.”  CFDs Rise  France’s  benchmark CAC 40 index  has declined by 48 percent
from 1999, its highest ever year-end level. The index has
dropped 14 percent over the past two years as policymakers
struggled to control  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis.  The average volume of shares changing hands on the CAC 40
over the past 200 days has fallen 11 percent from the high in
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Those who want to stay invested in France will find a way
to avoid paying the tax, said Sam Capital’s Schmitt.  “There will be enough options to avoid the stamp duty in
France,” he said. “There are many loopholes. The people who
are making the laws don’t understand the business.”  According to  Investment Trends , an Australian research
firm, 98,000 people used spread betting, another way of betting
on a stock’s direction, or CFDs last year. That’s up from 91,000
in the previous year. In the firm’s first research report on
CFDs in  France  it said 16,000 people used this type of
investment tool in the 12 months to February 2012.  ‘Just Worse’  Still, some traditional fund managers such as Philippe Joly
of Societe Privee de Gestion de Patrimoine in Paris and Amandine
Gerard, president of Financiere de L’Arc in Aix-en-Provence,
said they don’t plan on using CFDs or other derivatives.  “We will function as before, with maybe a bit less
movement,” said Gerard, who oversees $233 million. “Most of
the stocks concerned are ones that make up the base of a
portfolio so aren’t bought and sold several times.”  Joly, who manages $61 million in two funds, said the tax
coming on top of a deteriorating economic environment won’t have
a visible impact.  “If we’re taxed more, we’re taxed more,” he said. “We’re
set for five years of austerity and anti-capitalism. Things
weren’t all that good before. Now, we’ll just be a little worse
off.”  At CMC Markets, the seller of CFDs is priming for more
sales of the derivative product.  “The higher the tax, the more people will transfer
traditional trading to CFDs,” CMC Markets’ Couste said. “It’s
not hedge funds or dark pools that will pay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  