-- Olympic Doctors Say Flight Poses Disease Risk to Team USA
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-24T11:39:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/olympic-doctors-say-flight-poses-disease-risk-to-u-s-athletes.html
A fist bump may be American
athletes’ greeting of choice as they try to avoid illnesses that
might wreck their Olympic dreams.  Airplane illnesses and the rigors of long-haul travel are
bigger concerns for Team USA’s medical team than any sporting
injuries  Michael Phelps  and Tyson Gay may suffer on the way to
 London  for the 2012 summer games.  Cindy Chang, chief medical officer for the 529-member U.S.
contingent, told athletes to take aisle seats so they can take
regular walks and carry out stretching routines in the galley so
their muscles don’t seize up aboard the jets carrying them
across the Atlantic. Team USA won’t snub an extended hand of
friendship, said Chang, who also works as head physician for the
 University of California , Berkeley teams, suggesting athletes
may break with conventional handshakes.  “A fist bump is the greeting,” said Chang with a laugh in
an interview at the Olympic Village. “There are sanitary places
all over that you can use. What you don’t want to do is shake
someone’s hands and then touch your eyes or touch your nose and
touch your face.”  Athletes from more than 200 nations are landing in the city
ahead of the July 27 opening ceremony. Housing at the Olympic
Village is dense, with as many as 16,000 competitors and
officials staying in 11 residential areas. Most will share
leisure facilities, while others will share a bedroom.  Around 3,300 people are expected to arrive at the Village
today, London 2012 officials told reporters at a briefing. About
40 percent of the residences were occupied yesterday.  “A cough can spread organisms 10 feet away from you,
diseases can be spread by touching, coughing and sneezing,” Ron
Cutler, director of biomedical science degree programs at
London’s Queen Mary University, said in a telephone interview.
“Use soap and warm water. This is a once-in-a-lifetime moment
and you don’t want to be spreading diseases to your
colleagues.”  Filtered Air  Nic Stevenson, a spokesman for the UK’s  Civil Aviation
Authority , said airlines use filters to try to remove bacteria
and viruses from the air passengers breathe.  “These filters are similar to those used in the hospital
operating theatres,” he said in an e-mail. “The total volume
of cabin air is exchanged every two to three minutes compared
with every five to ten minutes in most air conditioned
buildings.”  Chang’s team of 80 doctors is on hand to dispense advice on
anything from the safety of London’s drinking water to getting
into a regular sleeping pattern.  “Even before they got off the plane we talk to them about
how they can adjust their sleep cycle because it’s eight hours
for some of them,” said Chang. “We tell them to stay up the
night before so they can be tired when they get here.”  ‘Greatest Threat’  Britain, the host nation, has told its Olympians to avoid
shaking hands with officials and to minimize contact with
friends and family, according to the country’s chief medical
officer Ian McCurdie. The 542-member British Olympic Team will
use hand foam made by Procter & Gamble’s Vicks brand during
their stay.  “The greatest threat to performance is illness and
injury,” he said in a March 6 interview. “The Olympic
environment is a hostile one. Housing can be dense, you share
rooms and restaurants with many other athletes and there is a
lot of extra stress. Most bugs you pick up on your hands, so
hand washing is absolutely critical.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane at Olympic Park at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  at Olympic Park at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 