-- Home Sales Held Hostage by Junior Lien Holders: Mortgages
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l   a n d   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-07-23T16:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/home-sales-held-hostage-by-junior-lien-holders-mortgages.html
Tom Axon’s mortgage-collection firm
gets about 25 calls a day from  delinquent  homeowners’ brokers
seeking approval to sell their houses for a loss and avoid
foreclosure. We’ll help, his staff tells them, as long as we get
paid enough.  Axon, working with co-investors, buys distressed U.S. home-
equity loans and other junior real estate liens, often for
pennies on the dollar. Investors like Axon have to be dealt with
whenever a home is sold in a short sale, a transaction in which
the lenders agree to accept less than what’s owed on the
property.  “The short-sale brokers know us -- they know we’re not
cupcakes,” Axon, 60, chairman of Jersey City, New Jersey-based
mortgage-servicer Franklin Credit Management Corp., said in an
interview. “At the end of the day, my friend, you signed a
contract. You owe money and we’re willing to reach an
accommodation that is commensurate with your ability to pay.”  Tough bargaining by second-lien holders is delaying deals
and killing some short sales, even as banks embrace the practice
to avoid costly foreclosures and help clear the market of homes
that are  worth less than the loans on them , said Vicki Been, a
 New York  University law professor who has studied mortgages.  “It’s an opportunity for the second-lien holder to charge
a price for their cooperation, because it’s needed for a short
sale,” Been, a director at NYU’s Furman Center for Real Estate
& Urban Policy, said in a telephone interview. “If they’re too
greedy, it may squelch the whole deal.”  Second Mortgages  Roadblocks involving second liens are standing in the way
of more short sales, which reached the highest number in three
years in the first quarter -- 133,192 total transactions -- said
 Daren Blomquist , vice president at RealtyTrac Inc., a real
estate information service in  Irvine ,  California .  While about 39 percent of homes that have entered the
 foreclosure  process have more than one lien, just 4.2 percent of
short sales -- 5,658 transactions -- completed in the first
quarter were on homes with second mortgages, according to an
analysis RealtyTrac performed for Bloomberg.  The average time to sell a property with multiple liens was
448 days, up 27 percent from a year earlier, the company said.
It took 352 days to sell homes with a single mortgage, a 6
percent increase from the first quarter of 2011.  “It appears that short sales with multiple liens aren’t
happening as frequently and are taking longer to complete,”
Blomquist said in a telephone interview. Short sales that fail
tend to end up as foreclosures instead, he said.  ‘Biggest Hurdle’  In June, short sales of homes with multiple loans were
completed an average of 19.75 months after the borrower’s last
payment, according to an analysis by J.P. Morgan Securities, a
unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  That’s about two months, or 12
percent, longer than short sales of homes with single mortgages.  Second-lien holders are protecting their interests,
“which, unfortunately, don’t dovetail with everybody else’s
interest,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania.  “Subordinate liens have become the biggest hurdle to
resolving the foreclosure crisis more quickly,” he said.  Homes with second mortgages were twice as likely to be
underwater, according to a July 12 report by real estate
information provider  CoreLogic Inc. (CLGX)  That makes them candidates
for short sales, even if they don’t have delinquent loans,
because their mortgage debt is greater than their resale value.
The average negative equity for homes with second liens was
$82,000, compared with $47,000 for single-mortgage homes, Santa
Ana, California-based CoreLogic said.  ‘Hostage Situations’  “It’s very much like hostage situations,” Sam Khater,
CoreLogic’s senior economist, said of second-lien holders.
“It’s like an all-or-nothing situation in terms of payoff, and
they’re very unwilling to bargain.”  Banks, facing an onslaught of pending  foreclosures , are
turning to short sales because their losses are about 15 percent
lower than on repossessions, which can take years to complete
while taxes along with legal, maintenance and other costs
accumulate, according to Moody’s Investors Service in New York.  Holders of first mortgages are pre-approving short sales,
streamlining the closing process, forgoing their right to pursue
unpaid debt and giving some borrowers cash incentives of as much
as $35,000 for relocation expenses.  U.S. government  programs  have prodded banks to speed up
short sales because they’re less damaging to credit scores and
property values than repossessions are. The Home Affordable
Foreclosure Alternatives program, known as HAFA, pays servicers
as much as $2,200 and homeowners as much as $3,000 for
completing short sales. The program was changed in March to
increase payments for second-lien holders who agree to release
borrower liability, lifting the maximum settlement to $8,500
from $6,000.  60 Days  For loans guaranteed by  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , the
government-run mortgage companies, servicers now must
communicate final decisions on approvals within 60 days of a
buyer’s short-sale request.  Fannie Mae  tries to put a limit on
negotiations by capping the amount junior-mortgage owners can
receive at $6,000 or 6 percent of the unpaid balance, whichever
is less. The company’s guidelines don’t allow any party to the
transaction, including the buyer, seller or real estate agent,
to kick additional money to the junior-lien holder.  “We want to help more borrowers avoid foreclosure through
alternatives such as short sales, and we hope that second-lien
holders will do their part,”  Andrew Wilson , a spokesman for
Washington-based Fannie Mae, said in an e-mail.  The right to collect on unpaid junior liens varies with
state laws and type of loan. In 39 states, including  Florida  and
New York, lenders may seek deficiency judgments, giving them
recourse to pursue borrowers for unpaid mortgage balances.  Deficiency Judgements  So-called piggyback loans, which were used to help cash-
strapped buyers make down payments in the middle of the last
decade, are often exempt from deficiency judgments because the
money was used to purchase a home. Borrowers don’t have the same
protections with home equity lines of credit if the money wasn’t
used to purchase or improve a house.  It took more than eight months of negotiations and offers
from three buyers to close a $1.5 million short sale on a
Fountain Hills,  Arizona , house in which  PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. (PNC)  handled both the first and second liens totaling $2.9
million, said Janice DeLong, a Realtor with ROI Properties Inc.
in Phoenix.  The sale stalled for the last time in June when PNC’s
negotiator for the $2 million first lien objected after
initially agreeing to a final settlement, known as a HUD-1,
under which the second-lien holder would get $275,000 of
$900,000 in debt, DeLong said.  ‘They Reneged’  “They issued an approval letter, and then they reneged,”
DeLong said in a telephone interview.  The deal closed only after DeLong’s client agreed to reduce
the initial second-lien payment to $88,000 while surrendering to
PNC’s demand not to waive its right to try to collect the junior
loan’s balance, she said.  “PNC pursues deficiency judgments unless otherwise
negotiated in the short-sale agreement,”  Fred Solomon , a
spokesman for the Pittsburgh-based lender, said in an e-mail.  While PNC doesn’t comment on specific loans, it’s common
for first and second liens serviced by the same bank to be
controlled by different investors who have different negotiating
positions, said Solomon, whose bank had $28.4 billion in second
liens as of June 30.  “You may find cases in which a bank is servicing a first
mortgage loan on behalf of an investor, and the same bank holds
a second lien on the mortgaged property,” he said in the e-
mail. “The mortgage-servicing team of the bank operates at the
direction of the investor, according to rules established by the
investor, in negotiating with another part of the bank.”  Largest Banks  The four largest U.S. banks --  Bank of America  Corp.,  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC) , JPMorgan and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  -- held 48 percent of
the $849.5 billion in second liens as of March 31, according to
the newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. Home equity lines of
credit accounted for $590 billion, or 69 percent of the value of
second liens, as of that date, according to Amherst Securities
Group LP.  Risks associated with home-equity loans “may escalate” as
borrowers face rising obligations to pay down principal on lines
of credit, according to a July 5 report by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. Borrowers, who were allowed to make
nominal or interest-only payments on the credit lines for as
long as 10 years, will be obligated to pay down $15 billion in
principal in 2013, $29 billion in 2014 and $53 billion in 2015,
according to the report.  Loan Writedowns  Banks were ordered, in a January directive by regulators
including the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., to accelerate their writing down of
second-lien values to reflect rising payment obligations and
falling home value. The four largest banks reported $2.43
billion in writedowns on their second liens in the quarter ended
June 30, down 13 percent from the previous three months.  Some of the mortgages are being sold to buyers such as
Axon, whose company services about 40,000 loans, most of which
are owned by joint ventures that he has an interest in.  The handful of companies that dominate the secondary market
for nonperforming second liens are trying to persuade large
banks to sell their portfolios of subordinate debt, said Lou
DiPalma, managing partner at Garnet Capital Advisors LLC, a
loan-sale consulting firm based in Harrison, New York.  Collecting on delinquent subordinate debt is expensive and
complicated, especially when the borrower no longer lives in the
house. Servicers for such loans make 80 percent of their money
from 20 percent of loans, DiPalma said.  Valuable Liens  Nonperforming junior liens sell for between a quarter of a
penny and 60 cents per one dollar of the outstanding balance, he
said. The most valuable junior liens are delinquent loans on
properties where the owner is not underwater, he said. Loans
that are the cheapest and hardest to collect on involve
foreclosed properties where the homeowner has already been
evicted.  “In this business, it’s possible that you can not only
lose the purchase price, but because it costs you money to
service the loan, you can even lose more than what you paid,”
DiPalma said.  Franklin Credit Holding Corp. (FCMCQ) , which owes secured lenders
$820.6 million after the housing crash reduced the value of its
mostly subordinated loans, filed for bankruptcy in June. Its
reorganization plan, approved by lenders, would let it transfer
to shareholders its 80 percent stake in Franklin Credit
Management, a non-bankrupt mortgage-servicing subsidiary,
according to a regulatory filing.  Younger Borrowers  While Axon of Franklin Credit Management declined to say
how much his company collects on average, he said it’s higher
than the industry standard of 6 percent of the unpaid balance.
Sometimes he wins agreements with borrowers to repay debt over
many years. His company focuses collection efforts on younger,
more-educated borrowers, and doesn’t pursue debts held by the
elderly, disabled people or members of the military, he said.  USAA, a San Antonio, Texas-based lender that specializes in
providing insurance and credit to U.S. troops and veterans,
pursues debts even when borrowers are forced to sell for a loss
because of a military transfer order.  Lower Delinquencies  “USAA is able to maintain an extremely high repayment rate
of deficiency balances after short sales due to the thorough
manner in which we evaluate a member’s complete financial
condition and ability to repay,” Dave Pacholczyk, a USAA
spokesman with Fleishman-Hillard Inc., said in an e-mailed
response to questions. “This approach means that those who are
able to do so may be asked to contribute a higher amount at
closing and will be asked to pay the remaining balance where the
law permits.”  USAA had 220,000 second liens with a balance of $9.4
billion as of the end of May, and only 1.6 percent of the
portfolio was delinquent or uncollectable, Pacholczyk said. That
compares with an average delinquency rate of 5 percent for home
equity lines of credit and 12 percent for piggyback mortgages
throughout the industry, according to Been of NYU.  Tshai Wright’s bank agreed in December to give up a third
of what she owed so she could sell her Miramar, Florida, home.
She qualified for a $3,000 relocation payment through the
federal HAFA program as well. That’s around the time she heard
from Franklin Credit Management, which is trying to collect on
her piggyback loan.  Lender Power  Franklin wouldn’t settle for anything less than half of the
about $69,000 she owed, and wouldn’t participate in the HAFA
program. After months of negotiations and three extensions from
Wells Fargo, her primary lender, it turned down the short sale.
Now she is considering Franklin’s offer to modify her payments.  “It’s crazy,” said Wright, a 35-year-old paralegal who is
going through a divorce, causing a decline in her  household
income . “They’re a junior-lien holder, and there’s too much
power they have.”  Franklin Chief Financial Officer Paul Colasono said his
company was willing to settle for “substantially less than she
owed,” or to reduce Wright’s mortgage payments to a level she
could afford.  The key to success is knowing something about the borrower,
according to Axon. Franklin’s Face to Face Home Solutions
division dispatches retired police officers and firefighters to
speak with delinquent borrowers and write reports that describe
the condition of their properties and their attitudes about
paying. A BMW parked in the driveway may be a clue to a
homeowner’s finances, Axon said.  The company also compiles a profile of the borrower using
public databases, credit scores, original loan applications and,
sometimes, Facebook and Twitter pages, and ranks borrowers based
on their ability to pay, Axon said.  “We are making our decisions based on characteristics of
the borrower,” he said. Homeowners are “the ones being
stubborn. They’re the ones who got their money and bought their
boat, and now they want their boat for free. The fact is we’re
willing to discount the obligation, get this behind them, and
have them fulfill their obligations. If everybody gave everybody
what they got for free, we wouldn’t have a banking system.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net . 