-- Hong Kong Markets Reopen as City Lowers Typhoon Warning
-- B y   J u s t i n a   L e e   a n d   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-07-24T10:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/hong-kong-closes-ports-schools-as-typhoon-vicente-nears-1-.html
Hong Kong  retailers and banks
reopened and the city cleaned up its streets after Severe
Typhoon Vicente, the most intense storm to hit the former
British colony since 1999, swept into  China .  The Hong Kong Observatory  cut its storm warning level to
No. 1, the lowest signal, as workers cleared debris-littered
streets. Trading at the  Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Ltd. 
resumed at 1 p.m. after the morning session was canceled.  “We were worried we won’t be able to buy anything if there
was another storm tomorrow,” said Fang Qing, a tourist from
Dalian, China, who purchased two bags of shoes and clothes after
spending an hour waiting for shops in the city’s central
business district to reopen.  The government closed all schools and public clinics
yesterday as strong winds and heavy rain emptied streets,
toppled trees and closed ports.  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293) , the
city’s biggest carrier, which halted all local operations last
night, said flights continue to be disrupted.  “Vicente continues to move inland and weaken gradually,”
the observatory said in a statement posted on its website.  Chinese Tourists  Retailers including Apple Inc., Gucci Group, Coach Inc. and
Folli Follie all have shops in the city’s central district. The
city is dependent on Chinese tourists to drive sales, with the
economic slowdown in the mainland dragging retail-sales growth
in Hong Kong to its weakest pace since 2009 in May.  Trucks and carts dotted the streets as deliveries were
made, and office employees wore flip-flops and sandals to work
as they navigated slippery pavements.  Bus companies suspended 56 routes and diverted 15 because
of fallen trees and road closures, the government said in a
statement at 3:15 p.m. Some ferry services resumed, it said.  A total of 138 people sought hospital treatment, according
to the Hospital Authority. Authorities are dealing with one
landslide, seven instances of flooding and as many as 1,033
reports of fallen trees, the government said in a statement at
10:48 a.m.  Port operators said they restarted gate services.  MTR
Corp. (66) ’s trains resumed operations after some were disrupted this
morning by damaged cables and fallen trees.  “Yesterday was pretty scary,” said Tang Yanni, who was on
holiday in Hong Kong with her family from Fuzhou, China. “We
got completely soaked” while at tourist attraction Ocean Park.  Sweeping West  Typhoon Vicente was centered about 440 kilometers west of
Hong Kong at 5 p.m., and is forecast to cross China’s Guangxi
region, the observatory said.  “We know flights have been delayed, but we plan to head to
the airport to check out the latest situation,” said Fanny Lai,
a 30-year-old clerk who was scheduled to fly to  Taiwan .  More than 100 subway passengers were stranded overnight
when the No. 10 signal was hoisted, RTHK said on its website.
The last time the highest warning level was raised was for
Typhoon York in 1999, the government-run broadcaster said.  Banks in the city resumed operations two hours after the
lowering of the typhoon signal, the Hong Kong Association of
Banks said.  “The weather isn’t that bad,” said Katherine Li, a 29-
year-old clerk, at the Central train station. “I waited for a
cab for 20 minutes to rush back to the office, and the driver
asked for an additional HK$150. I took the train.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net ;
Justina Lee in Hong Kong at 
 jlee1245@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  