-- Oppenheimer Reaches Deal With RBS Citizens on Mid-Market Clients
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-07-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/oppenheimer-reaches-deal-with-rbs-citizens-on-mid-market-clients.html
Oppenheimer Holdings Inc. (OPY) , the
investment bank run by Albert “Bud” Lowenthal, reached a
client-referral agreement with RBS Citizens Financial Group Inc.
to share middle-market clients for some services.  Citizens, a unit of Edinburgh-based  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS) , will refer customers seeking financial advisory and
equity capital markets services to New York-based Oppenheimer’s
broker-dealer unit, the firms said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. Oppenheimer & Co., in turn, will refer customers
needing traditional banking products and services to Citizens.  Oppenheimer has raised more than $85 billion through 150
equity or equity-linked transactions for middle-market clients
since 2004, according to the statement. Providence, Rhode
Island-based Citizens has commercial-banking relationships with
more than 3,000 U.S. middle-market firms. More companies are
exploring strategic transactions, including acquisitions, said
Robert Matthews, head of commercial banking at Citizens.  “We focused on the two areas of financial advisory and
equity capital markets because those were areas that we saw as
imminent needs of our customers,” Matthews said in a phone
interview. “It was a nice dovetailing of interests and
capabilities that brought us together.”  His firm looked “extensively” for a referral-program
partner, and Oppenheimer kept coming up because of its history
of serving middle-market customers, Matthews said. Citizens
defines middle-market as commercial and industrial companies
with $5 million to $2 billion in annual sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 