-- Tour de France Heir Sees Benefit as Wiggins Win Expands Markets
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-23T00:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/tour-de-france-heir-sees-benefit-as-wiggins-win-expands-markets.html
Even the French are quite pleased
Bradley Wiggins has won the  Tour de France .  The 32-year-old Londoner yesterday became the first Briton
to win cycling’s most prestigious race, managing what no
Frenchman has done since 1985. His Team Sky teammate Chris
Froome made it a 1-2 for Britain, which had previously failed to
produce a rider that finished in the top three.  The Amaury family, which owns the Tour de  France , is
seeking to boost sales after six years in which doping scandals
turned backers away from cycling. Wiggins, who has denounced
cheating, is helping to make the race more popular abroad,
according to Jean-Etienne Amaury, the president of the family’s
sports unit Amaury Sport Organisation, or ASO.  “We’re very happy that the English are doing well,” said
Amaury, whose family has owned the Tour since 1947, in an
interview. “The race is getting more and more popular in the
English-speaking world.”  Once dominated by a small group of countries including
France, Belgium and Spain, the Tour de France had its first
winner from the U.S. when  Greg LeMond  won in 1986 and first from
 Australia  last year when  Cadel Evans  triumphed. The last French
winner was Bernard Hinault 27 years ago.  “Many more American, Australians and English have started
coming to the Tour the last five to 10 years,” Amaury, 35, said
at the Peyragudes ski resort where the July 19 stage finished.
English cycling enthusiasts are also flocking to  L’Etape du
Tour , an amateur one-day race ASO arranges to coincide with the
Tour de France, Amaury said.  Doping Scandals  Floyd Landis  of the U.S. failed a drugs test in winning the
2006 Tour de France, as did Spain’s  Alberto Contador  in 2010.
Luxembourg’s  Frank Schleck  quit the race last week after testing
positive for a banned diuretic. He denies doping.  Each case sets professional cycling back, Pat McQuaid, the
president of ruling body  Union Cycliste Internationale , said in
a recent interview in Aigle,  Switzerland .  “Every time there’s a major doping scandal there are many
sponsors that say no,” McQuaid said. Prospective sponsors
pulled out on the day Contador’s positive drugs test was
announced, according to McQuaid.  The net income of Paris-based ASO, which also manages
sports events including the Dakar rally and Paris marathon,
remained little-changed at about 32 million euros ($38.9
million) between 2006 and 2010, company filings show.  The Tour gets about 60 percent of its revenue from
television rights, with most of the rest coming from sponsorship
and fees from municipalities that host the start and finish of
stages. Yorkshire,  England , is vying to host the start of the
race in 2016.  English Ecstasy  If the French are happy about Wiggins, the English are
ecstatic.  Brian Robinson , who was the first British rider to win
a Tour de France stage in 1958, said he had written Wiggins a
note of thanks.  “It’s what we’ve all wanted,” Robinson, 81, said by phone
from his home in Yorkshire. “I can’t find the words to say what
it means.”  Alex Rosen, who runs a  marketing company  from  London , said
he had traveled to Paris in a five-car convoy with a group of
friends from a mountain-biking vacation in the Alps to witness
the victory.  “It’s once in a century,” Rosen, 31, said at the race
finish on the Champs Elysees yesterday. “When was the last time
England won something?”  Olympic Champion  Wiggins, a three-time Olympic gold medalist in track
cycling, was fourth with U.S. team Garmin at the 2009 Tour. He
finished 24th with Team Sky in 2010 and didn’t complete last
year’s race because of a broken collarbone. As race leader the
last two weeks, Wiggins denounced doping after being asked about
drug rumors in cycling.  In a July 13  blog in the Guardian  newspaper, Wiggins said
he put the uniform of his former team, Cofidis, in the bin at
Pau airport after it quit the 2007 race amid a doping scandal
involving its rider Cristian Moreni. He wrote he would rather
stack supermarket shelves than dope.  Wiggins, who speaks fluent French after riding for Cofidis
and other French teams for six years, also won plaudits for
respecting race etiquette. French television dubbed him ‘Le
Gentleman’ when he slowed to wait in a July 15 stage as
defending champion Evans had three punctures from tacks thrown
on the road by saboteurs.  The French are more gracious than the British when it comes
to sports, Robinson said.  “They appreciate the sporting qualities of riders much
more than we do,” Robinson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  