-- P&G, Samsung, Google, Apple: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-23T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/p-g-samsung-google-apple-intellectual-property.html
Procter & Gamble Co., the world’s
largest consumer-products company, sued a manufacturer of
private-label products for patent infringement.  The suit, filed July 20 in federal court in Cincinnati,
accused  Team Technologies Inc. , of Morristown,  Tennessee , of
infringing three patents related to tooth-whitening products.  Procter & Gamble said the “Oral Care Whitening Dental
Strips” Team Technologies sells to  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD)  infringe
patents 5,891,453, 5,894,017, and 7,122,199. Another allegedly
infringing tooth-whitening product produced by Team Technologies
is sold to  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the company said in its
pleadings. Neither CVS nor Rite Aid is named as a defendant.  Team Technologies didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed
request for comment. According to the company website, Team
Technologies produces a range of dental-related products
including toothbrushes, denture adhesives and cases for
orthodontic appliances.  P&G said it’s harmed by Team Technologies actions, and that
by providing instructions on how to use its private-label tooth-
whitening products, the Tennessee company is inducing others to
infringe the patents.  The Cincinnati-based consumer products company asked the
court to bar further infringement by Team Technologies, and for
awards of money damages, attorney fees and litigation costs.
Claiming the infringement is deliberate, P&G asked the court to
triple the damages award to punish Teach Technologies for its
actions.  The case is  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) , v. Team Technologies
Inc., 1:12-cv-00553-SJD, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of  Ohio  (Cincinnati).  Samsung’s Challenge to Galaxy Nexus Ban to Be Heard Aug. 20  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit has agreed to
Samsung Electronics Co.’s request to expedite appeal of a patent
dispute with Apple Inc.,  The suit is over patents covering mobile phone technology.
According to an order issued June 20 by the Washington-based
court, oral arguments will be heard Aug. 20 at 2 p.m. at the
court.  Samsung is appealing order that blocks U.S. sales of Galaxy
Nexus phone until patent case filed by Cupertino, California-
based Apple is heard. On July 6 that same court issued a
temporary order permitting the continued sale of Galaxy Nexus
phones.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co., 12-1507,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. The lower court
case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 5:12-cv-00630-
LHk, U.S District Court, Northern District of  California  (San
Jose).  Myriad Defends Patent Claims on Genetic Material in Court Case  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) , owner of patents related to genes
linked to hereditary cancer risks, is trying to claim legal
ownership of a product of nature, the  American Civil Liberties
Union  told a U.S. appeals court Friday.  “We need to be sure that natural things and all natural
laws are available to all mankind,” Chris Hansen, an ACLU
lawyer representing research groups said.  The central legal issue in arguments before the U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Federal Circuit is whether isolated DNA is
ineligible for patent protection as a product of nature.  “The patent claims reflect not naturally occurring, but
human-made compositions that were the product of human
ingenuity,” said Myriad lawyer Greg Castanias. “This is not
the patenting of a natural product or something so close to a
natural product that it can’t be patented.”  The Federal Circuit, which specializes in  patent law , last
year said isolated DNA can be entitled to patent protection. It
was ordered by the  Supreme Court  to reconsider that ruling in
light of a decision by the high court in March, in a separate
case, that limited the ability to obtain patents on certain
diagnostic tests.  In its decision last year, the Federal Circuit ruled 2-1 in
favor of Salt Lake City-based Myriad’s isolated DNA claims.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration argued that there
should be limits on the types of genetic material that can be
covered by patents. Justice Department lawyer Melissa Patterson
said that changes to isolate the specific gene were
insignificant.  In a typical case before the Federal Circuit, the U.S.
Patent and Trademark Office will present the government’s
arguments. Patterson declined to say whether the patent office
agreed with the administration’s position.  In the Supreme Court’s March 20 decision, Justice  Stephen Breyer  wrote for a unanimous court in warning against “tying up
the use of the underlying natural laws.”  The Myriad dispute has split the medical community. Some
scientists argue they have been stymied in their quest for new
medicines and treatments because they fear coming up against
demands for royalties or letters demanding they stop using
patented inventions.  Companies like  Genomic Health Inc. (GHDX)  and  Alnylam
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY)  argue they can’t attract investment dollars
if they can’t protect their research from competitors.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad,
10-1406, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Association for Molecular
Pathology v. U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, 09-cv-4515, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Google Said to Face EU Demand for Mobile in Antitrust Settlement  Google Inc. (GOOG)  is being urged by European Union regulators to
include mobile applications as part of an offer to modify its
search engine and end an antitrust probe, according to two
people familiar with the situation.  Google made a proposal to the European Commission earlier
this month to respond to EU concerns that the operator of the
world’s largest search engine discriminates against rivals. EU
Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said last month that he
would send Google a formal antitrust complaint if the company’s
commitments were unsatisfactory.  Regulators want Google to extend the offer to mobile
applications for smartphones and tablet computers, according to
the people who can’t be identified because the negotiations
aren’t public. Google is concerned that the EU request may make
it more difficult for users to use its search apps, one of the
people said.  Google, based in Mountain View, California, is under
growing pressure from global regulators probing whether the
company is thwarting competition in the market for Web searches.
The U.S. Federal Trade Commission and antitrust agencies in
 Argentina  and South Korea are also scrutinizing the company.  Al Verney, a spokesman for Google, said in an e-mail that
the company continues to work cooperatively with the commission.  In 2010, the EU’s antitrust agency began investigating
claims Google discriminated against other services in its search
results and stopped some websites from accepting competitors’
ads. While  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and partner  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  have about a
quarter of the U.S. Web-search market, Google has almost 95
percent of the traffic in Europe, Microsoft said in a blog post
last year, citing data from regulators.  Apple Seeks to Register ‘Mountain Lion’ Mark in U.S., Hong Kong  Apple Inc., maker of the iPad and iPhone, is seeking to
register “Mountain Lion” as a trademark, according to two
recent filings made with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  According to the patent office database, Apple filed
applications July 9 to register “Mountain Lion” and “OS X
Mountain Lion.” Apple said in its application it’s used
“Mountain Lion” since Jan. 12, and that the terms would be
used for computer operating-system software and application
development-tool software.  Apple has also filed applications to register “Mountain
Lion” as a trademark in Hong Kong, and spelled out a broader
range of uses, including for television receivers and monitors,
 CNET News reported .  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  World Digital Dismisses Case Over Heavy Metal Band’s Album  The licensee for the copyright to a recording by a heavy
metal band has dismissed the infringement case it brought
against 80 unnamed defendants.  World Digital Rights Inc., a Panamanian company, filed the
infringement suit in federal court in Fort Myers,  Florida , April
20. The suit was related to what it said was unauthorized
sharing through the use of the BitTorrent protocol of “This Is
Where It Ends,” a recording by the band All Shall Perish.  According to court papers, the record label -- Nuclear
Blast GmbH -- licensed the recording to World Digital Rights in
March.  Nuclear Blast, based in Donzdorf, Germany, has been in
business for 25 years, according to the company’s website. It
lists  All Shall Perish  as one of its bands, and provides links
to three albums recorded by All Shall Perish.  The anti-copyright website  TorrentFreak reported  April 29
that the band had no idea an infringement suit was filed. Its
manager told TorentFreak that “the band wasn’t consulted
whatsoever” and was confused about what it considered “awful”
action against its fans.  Nuclear Blast didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail
seeking clarification of its relationship to World Digital
Rights.  In the complaint, World Digital said it had hired a Germany
company, SKB UG, to identify the Internet Protocol addresses of
those who allegedly shared the album without permission. SKB has
forensic software named “Torrent Logger” that scans the peer-
to-peer networks looking for what are allegedly infringing
transactions, according to court papers.  The company asked the court to order each defendant to halt
the allegedly infringing actions, and for awards for as much as
$150,000 per defendant, in addition to attorney fees and
litigation costs.  In a July 12 court filing, World Digital asked that the
case be dismissed. No explanation was given.  The case is World Digital Rights Inc. v. John Does 1-80,
2:12-cv-00225-UA-SPC, U.S. District Court, Middle District of
Florida (Ft. Myers).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 