-- Pemex in Talks With Saipem, Petrofac for Arenque Field
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-07-23T20:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/pemex-in-talks-with-saipem-petrofac-for-arenque-field.html
(Corrects name of Petrofac in headline.)  Petroleos Mexicanos, the world’s
fourth-largest oil producer, is in talks with  Petrofac Ltd. (PFC) ,
 Saipem SpA (SPM)  and other domestic contractors to offer rights to
develop its Arenque field after an auction failed last month.  Pemex, as the company is known, expects to grant the
contract for the offshore field “in the next few weeks,” Chief
Executive Officer  Juan Jose Suarez Coppel  said in a July 20
interview.  Mexico, which has given Pemex a monopoly to produce and
refine oil since expropriating assets from U.K and U.S. oil
companies in 1938, is seeking contractors to develop mature
fields and increase well-extraction rates. The three bids
received for Arenque in a June 19 auction were higher than the
$7.25 a barrel that Pemex was offering to pay as a maximum rate.  Arenque was the largest field offered in Pemex’s second
round of bidding for integrated service contracts. The Mexico
City-based company produces about 6,000 barrels a day from
Arenque.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oil-field services
provider, Petrofac and  Alfa SAB (ALFAA)  were among the bidders that won
contracts to develop four other mature  oil fields .  The auctions last month were the second round of bidding
since changes to national oil laws allowed other producers to
gain control, without ownership, of Mexican fields for the first
time since the 1938 nationalization.  Suarez Coppel, 53, said Pemex is moving forward with plans
for a third round of contracts for its Chicontepec development,
a field with small pockets of oil and low pressure spread across
the states of Puebla, Hidalgo and Veracruz near the Gulf of
Mexico.  Chicontepec Auction  “Unless somebody tells me to stop,” the next auction will
be offered this year for Chicontepec under the current accord
framework, Suarez Coppel said when asked if the possibility of
an overhaul of energy laws may undermine the current contract
model, where Pemex pays an operator a fee per barrel produced.  Incoming President Enrique Pena Nieto has declared that
overhauling Pemex will be a priority when he takes office on
Dec. 1.  Pemex plans to boost Chicontepec’s production by almost
sixfold from 70,000 barrels a day to 400,000 by 2018.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in  Mexico  City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  