-- Penn State Hometown’s ‘Engine’ Escapes Game-Ban Crisis
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-07-23T19:46:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/penn-state-hometown-s-economic-engine-escapes-game-ban-crisis.html
Steve Moyer, whose  Lions Pride  shop
sells  Pennsylvania  State University gear, paused when asked what
would happen if he couldn’t sell football-related merchandise.  “It would be a huge hit,” Moyer, 42, said by telephone
before the football program’s fate was known. His father started
the store in 1976 in the school’s hometown of State College.
Items such as caps and shirts emblazoned with team logos provide
60 percent of his revenue, he said.  While the  National Collegiate Athletic Association  fined
the university $60 million today for its handling of a child
sex-abuse case involving assistant coach Jerry Sandusky, it
avoided a shutdown of the football program that was at the
center of the scandal. That may provide a measure of economic
relief to State College, a borough of 42,000 residents.  “They’re severe but I can’t disagree with them,” said
Jacob Ross, 18, an incoming freshman from Salisbury Township,
Pennsylvania, who’d stopped at the student union today to watch
the NCAA announce its sanctions in a televised press conference.
Shutting down football “would have just victimized people who
didn’t deserve that, the town, the players,” he said.  Nittany Lions games generate $50 million in direct spending
for Centre County, which includes  State College , according to a
fiscal 2009 study commissioned by the school. Games draw 100,000
fans to Beaver Stadium on a half-dozen Saturdays each year.  ‘Economic Engine’  “Penn State basically acts as an economic engine,” said
Centre County Commissioner Chris Exarchos, 67. Everyone in the
area either works there, studies there or knows someone who does
one or the other, he said. “We’re a company town.”  The NCAA’s penalty is “pretty severe,” he said today in
an interview. “I think it would have a significant impact on
the football program. There could be a lot of unintended
consequences.”  One of those may be unexpected pressure on the community’s
$21 million budget. Borough Manager Thomas Fountaine said he and
other officials will discuss the possible short- and long-term
effects of the football sanctions when they meet on Aug. 1 to
discuss the 2013 spending plan.  The borough relies “heavily on  Penn State  football,”
Fountaine said in an interview. “There’s no doubt there will be
an impact.”  ‘Corrective’ Action  In addition to fining Penn State, the NCAA said its
“corrective and punitive” measures stripped the school of all
of its wins from 1998 through 2011, barred it from postseason
play and eliminated 20 scholarships annually for four seasons.  “I am grateful that the NCAA did not impose the ‘death
penalty,’ which would have also had a severe detrimental impact
on the citizens of State College, Centre County and the entire
commonwealth,” Governor Tom Corbett, a Republican and a
university trustee, said in a statement.  “I also want assurance from Penn State that no taxpayer
dollars will be used to pay the $60 million fine imposed on the
university,” Corbett said.  Louis Freeh , a former FBI director hired by school
trustees to investigate the child sex-abuse scandal that rocked
the campus last year, said ex-football coach  Joe Paterno , former
president  Graham Spanier , 64, and other university officials
failed to protect children from Sandusky, 68, an assistant for
31 years, in a report released July 12.  45 Counts  Sandusky was convicted last month on 45 criminal charges
tied to abuse of 10 boys over 15 years and may spend the rest of
his life in prison.  University officials didn’t report allegations made against
Sandusky, or take steps to ensure the safety of children he came
in contact with, according to Freeh.  Penn State athletics  generated  $116.1 million in operating
revenue in fiscal 2011 and had a $14.8 million surplus. The gain
helped pay for facilities maintenance and buildings. Removing
revenue and expenses tied to football would have cut revenue to
$57.2 million and produced a $29.1 million deficit that year,
according to school records.  The school also has $51.9 million in debt tied to athletic
facilities that costs $3.57 million a year to service.  Penn State football acquired goods and services valued at
$13.9 million within Centre County, while game-day spending by
employees came to $2 million and out-of-town visitors drawn into
the community by the program plunked down $34.1 million on hotel
rooms, meals, souvenirs and other items, according to the fiscal
2009 study by Pittsburgh-based consulting firm  Tripp Umbach .  ‘Who Knows?’  “We’ll take a loss” because of the NCAA’s ban on
postseason play, said Jason Sincavage, an employee at Rapid
Transit Sports, a store near the campus that sells shirts
related to bowl games involving the Nittany Lions.  When asked how the store would make up any losses,
Sincavage said, “Who knows?”  The program generated $134,000 in direct state payroll
taxes and $690,000 in levies collected by Centre County,
according to the Tripp Umbach report. In 2009, 1,130 jobs,
almost all within the county, were linked to Penn State
football, including administration, coaching, ushers and media.  Penn State football helped keep the county’s jobless rate,
at 5.3 percent in May,  lower  than the state’s 7.4 percent,
Exarchos said.  Centre County, with almost 155,000 residents, is already
coping with economic challenges stemming from the longest
recession since the 1930s, with more than 18 percent of
residents  living  in poverty, compared with 12 percent statewide.  “Our area has been devastated by all these events,” said
Exarchos, who earned a graduate degree from the school in 1976.
“This is just one additional thing we have to weather.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   Romy Varghese in State College at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  