-- Penn State Hit With Record Bowl Ban, $60 Million Fine From NCAA
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-24T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/penn-state-is-fined-60-million-avoids-football-death-penalty-.html
Pennsylvania State University 
avoided a shutdown of its football team over a child sex-abuse
case involving former assistant coach Jerry Sandusky. It was hit
with penalties, though, that may cripple the program for years.  Penn State  was fined $60 million yesterday by the  National
Collegiate Athletic Association , which also stripped the school
of 112 wins from 1998 through 2011, took away 20 total
scholarships annually for four seasons and barred the Nittany
Lions from bowl games for four years. The postseason ban matches
the longest in NCAA history.  “One of the grave dangers stemming from our love of sports
is that the sports themselves can become too big to fail, indeed,
too big to even challenge,” NCAA President  Mark Emmert  said at
a televised news conference. “The result can be an erosion of
academic values replaced by the values of hero worship and
winning at all costs.”  It may take Penn State’s football program as long as eight
years to recover from the sanctions, according to one college
football analyst. The discipline avoided the so-called death
penalty that would have shut down the program where former coach
 Joe Paterno  had set a record by winning 409 games.  Paterno’s resume will lose 111 of those wins, meaning he no
longer will be recognized as the most successful coach in major
college football history.  Abuse Education  University President Rodney Erickson said in a statement
after the announcement that the school accepted the NCAA’s
ruling. He said the $60 million would be paid over five years to
a special endowment created to fund programs for the detection,
prevention and treatment of child abuse.  “We must create a culture in which people are not afraid
to speak up, management is not compartmentalized, all are
expected to demonstrate the highest ethical standards and the
operating philosophy is open, collegial and collaborative,”
Erickson said.  The Penn State football team will be ineligible to receive
its share of the  Big Ten ’s bowl revenue during the four-year
postseason ban, the conference’s Council of Presidents and
Chancellors said in a statement. That money, roughly $13 million
according to the statement, also will be donated to charitable
organizations dedicated to the protection of children. The
Nittany Lions also can’t participate in the Big Ten’s
championship game for four years.  Family Response  Paterno’s family said the NCAA action and the response of
the school added to “an avalanche of vitriol, condemnation and
posthumous punishment” of the late coach.  The sanctions “defame the legacy and contributions of a
great coach and educator without any input from our family or
those who knew him best,” the family said in the statement.  The NCAA acted against the  State College , Pennsylvania-
based school less than two weeks after an investigation found
Paterno, who died of  lung cancer  in January, and other school
officials tried to cover up abuse allegations. The 68-year-old
Sandusky, a football assistant coach for 31 years, was convicted
last month on 45 criminal counts tied to the abuse of 10 boys
over a 15-year period starting in 1994.  “Hopefully we will be able to learn from this,” said
Jacob Ross, 18, an incoming freshman from Salisbury Township,
 Pennsylvania , who stopped at the student union to watch the news
conference on TV.  Sports Budget  In the fiscal year ending in 2011, Penn State’s athletic
department generated $116.1 million in operating revenue and
posted a $14.8 million operating profit, according to school
records.  The football team, which was 9-4 last season, had an
operating profit of $43.8 million on $58.9 million in revenue.
The NCAA has informed Penn State that the $60 million fine
cannot come at the expense of other non-revenue sports or other
student-athlete scholarships, Emmert said.  Penn State has an endowment of $1.3 billion, the
Pittsburgh-Post Gazette reported in March, citing  Graham Spanier ,
who was fired as university president in the scandal.  Lewis Katz, who donated $15 million to the university and
whose name appears on a campus law building, said the school and
its administration succumbed to an “athletics first” mentality.  “So sad you do 1,000 things right and you make one bad
decision sometimes in a matter of seconds and a lifetime of good
is eviscerated,” Katz, a former owner of the  National
Basketball Association ’s  New Jersey Nets , said in an e-mail.
“These are good people and I know them all.”  Statue Down  The school removed a statue of Paterno outside the football
stadium two days ago, 11 days after former Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director  Louis Freeh  issued a report that said
Paterno, Spanier and other university officials tried to conceal
Sandusky’s abuse of children to protect the school from “bad
publicity.” Freeh said his seven-month probe -- commissioned by
the university’s board of trustees -- found that the abuse could
have been stopped in 1998.  In addition to the penalties against the school and program,
Emmert said that the NCAA would allow any entering or returning
Nittany Lion football players to transfer to another school and
play immediately. In addition, any football player choosing to
remain at Penn State will keep his scholarship regardless of
whether he continues to play on the team, provided he maintains
the academic requirements.  The sanctions will affect the football team long after the
ban ends and the fine is paid, said Brandon Huffman, a college
football recruiting analyst for Scout.com. The team will
struggle to retain players and to recruit, and it may take at
least eight years, or until the first class of full scholarships
enters its senior season, for the program to resemble the
perennial Top 25 team that it became under Paterno.  Bowl Ban  “The four-year bowl ban only means that it will be four
years until they are eligible for a bowl, but they are going to
have such a talent depletion that who knows if they are even
going to qualify for a bowl in the next 10 years,” Huffman said
in an interview.  Huffman said the Nittany Lions’ 2013 recruiting class
probably will suffer immediately. One recruit -- cornerback Ross
Douglas from  Ohio , rated three out of five stars by scouts --
rescinded his verbal commitment yesterday.  Warren Zola, a sports law professor and assistant dean of
graduate programs at the Carroll School of Management at  Boston
College  in  Massachusetts , said last week that coaches around the
country already were thinking about grabbing possible transfers.  Free Agents  “There are a slew of college coaches that are going
through the Penn State roster as if they are free agents,” Zola
said.  Bill O’Brien, hired in January as the Nittany Lions’ coach,
said in a statement that he remains dedicated to the school and
program. Acting athletic director David Joyner said in a
statement that he agreed that the “culture at Penn State must
change.”  The four-year ban on postseason play, including bowl games,
matches a ban given to  Indiana University  in 1960 as the longest
in NCAA history, according to the NCAA’s database as cited by
ESPN. Emmert said the postseason break will keep the university
focused on renewal.  “For the next several years now, Penn State can focus on
the work of rebuilding its athletic culture, not worrying about
whether or not it is going to a bowl game,” he said.  The school will vacate 112 wins from 1998 through 2011, all
but one of which came with Paterno as head coach. Longtime
Florida State coach Bobby Bowden now has the most wins at
college football’s top level with 377; Eddie Robinson of
Grambling State holds the overall college football record with
408 wins, at a level below the top.  Emmert said the death penalty would have been too harsh to
those not directly involved in an “athletic culture that went
horribly awry.” The football team brings about $70.2 million to
state and local businesses each year, according to an economic
impact study commissioned by the university for the 2008-09
school year.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net 
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  