-- Peregrine Judge Gives Bankruptcy Trustee Role-Clarifying Order
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-23T20:20:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/peregrine-judge-gives-bankruptcy-trustee-role-clarifying-order.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s
bankruptcy trustee obtained a federal court order clarifying his
role in the marshaling of assets belonging to the collapsed
commodity futures brokerage.  U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer in  Chicago  today
granted Trustee Ira Bodenstein’s request after his lawyer told
the judge that while $24 million in firm funds had been located,
some banks holding that money would not allow them access to it
because of her earlier restraining order in a lawsuit filed
against Peregrine by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission.  “At least one financial institution has expressed concern
that its compliance with the Trustee’s request for the transfer
of funds may violate the ‘asset freeze’ provisions of the
order,” Bodenstein’s attorneys told Pallmeyer in a July 20
filing.  Peregrine, a Cedar Falls, Iowa-based firm, filed for  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  liquidation in Chicago on July 10, hours after
the CFTC filed a lawsuit accusing the firm and founder Russell Wasendorf Sr. of misappropriating at least $200 million in
client funds.  Wasendorf has been charged with making false statements to
federal regulators. He is in U.S. custody pending a bail hearing
scheduled for July 27 before U.S. Magistrate Judge Jon Scoles in
 Cedar Rapids , Iowa.  Bodenstein, in a motion filed separately with U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Carol A. Doyle on July 19, asked for
permission to pay a $25 million bond premium with the Peregrine
funds. Argument on that request is scheduled for July 24.  The Peregrine bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago). The CFTC regulatory case is  U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission v. Peregrine  Financial Group Inc.,
12-cv-5383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  