-- Peregrine Claim Traded for 20 Cents on Dollar, CRT Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-23T19:25:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/peregrine-claim-traded-for-20-cents-on-dollar-crt-says-1-.html
A customer of Peregrine Financial
Group Inc., whose founder is accused by regulators of
misappropriating more than $200 million, sold a claim on the
bankrupt futures brokerage for about 20 cents on the dollar, a
trader said.  The U.S. customer claim was for almost $20,000, said  Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT Capital
Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt. A record of the
trade, due to be filed in  bankruptcy court  in  Illinois  today,
would be the first to appear on the docket.  Traders are getting calls from Peregrine customers who
don’t know how much they’ll be paid, or when. Closing a trade is
risky for the buyer because probes into the fraud confessed to
by Peregrine founder, Russell Wasendorf Sr., could delay payment
for years, Sarachek said.  “It’s a much more complex situation than MF Global Inc.
because of the fraud,” he said. “Given the fact that Wasendorf
confessed to a 20-year fraud, this is part Madoff and part MF
Global.”  U.S. customers of brokerage MF Global, whose trustee has
returned most of their money, have always been able to sell
their claims in the high 70 cents on the dollar, Sarachek said.
Larger claims on  Bernard Madoff ’s brokerage have climbed to
about 65 cents as the trustee liquidating the con man’s estate
gets access to more money for distributions after 3 ½ years, he
said.  Current Bet  His current bet on Peregrine is that customers “probably”
won’t get less than 20 cents on the dollar over several years,
limiting CRT’s risks.  Peregrine’s July 10 bankruptcy, cutting off customers’
access to their accounts, came less than a year after the
failure of MF Global, whose clients are still missing $1.6
billion. Wasendorf may have funded his personal investments with
Peregrine brokerage money, a receiver said in a court filing.  The Peregrine bankruptcy case is Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago). The CFTC regulatory case is U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-cv-5383, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  