-- Peruvian Sol Advances on Moody’s Rating Increase Speculation
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-07-23T22:34:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/peruvian-sol-advances-on-moody-s-rating-increase-speculation.html
Peru ’s sol was the only major
emerging-market currency to strengthen against the dollar as
speculation that Moody’s Investors Service may raise its rating
on the country’s debt attracted foreign investors.  The sol appreciated 0.1 percent to 2.6360 per  U.S. dollar ,
according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. It had depreciated
0.7 percent on July 20 as the central bank paid off maturing
debt.  There have been “greater inflows of dollars from foreign
investors moving into sovereign bonds, particularly since
Moody’s said it would revise its rating on Peru.” said  Mario
Guerrero , an economist at Scotiabank in Peru. “It’s a little
different from what happened in the rest of the region.”  The yield on Peru’s benchmark bonds due in 2020 rose seven
basis points to 4.67 percent today, according to Citigroup
Inc.’s local unit. The yield on the bonds reached 4.53 percent
on July 16, the lowest since they were first sold in 2005.  Moody’s will decide whether to lift Peru’s Baa3 rating
within the next few months, Aaron Freedman, a senior analyst at
the company in  New York , said today. Moody’s has a positive
outlook on the rating, which is the lowest investment-grade
ranking.  “The country has continued to perform very strongly since
the time we assigned the outlook,” Freedman said in a phone
interview today. “It is hard to say with certainty what the
probability of an upgrade is but the risks, if you want to call
them that, are weighted to the upside.”  Freedman earlier spoke to Contact, the magazine of the
American Chamber of Commerce of Peru, in comments that were
reproduced by local media in  Lima .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  