-- Peugeot to Make European Light Commercial Vans for Toyota
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-23T07:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/peugeot-to-make-european-light-commercial-vans-for-toyota.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  and  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203)  signed an agreement for the French carmaker to supply
light commercial vehicles to the Japanese auto manufacturer to
sell under its own brand in  Europe .  Peugeot will provide medium-sized vans derived from its
existing Peugeot Expert and Citroen Jumpy models in the second
quarter of 2013, the carmakers said today in a statement. The
accord, which includes collaboration on future vehicles to be
made by Peugeot, may extend beyond 2020, they said.  “The light commercial-vehicle segment is an important one
for us in many markets throughout Europe,” Toyota Motor Europe
Chief Executive Officer Didier Leroy said in the statement. “We
have found a good solution for our loyal customers following the
recent discontinuation of our own Hiace model.”  The vans that Peugeot will supply to Toyota may be produced
at the French plant of SevelNord, which is currently operated
under a joint venture with  Fiat SpA (F) , Pierre-Olivier Salmon, a
spokesman at the Paris-based company, said by phone. Peugeot,
Europe’s second-biggest automaker, agreed to buy Fiat’s stake in
SevelNord factory by the end of 2012, the carmakers said on July
11.  “We need to fulfill three conditions in order to produce
these vehicles: to undo the joint venture with Fiat, to find a
new partner, which is now done, and to reach an agreement with
SevelNord unions to increase the competitiveness of the
factory,” Salmon said. “We are confident.”  Peugeot rose as much as 1.3 percent to 6.65 euros at 9:10
a.m. in Paris. The stock has fallen 37 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  