-- Peugeot Lost Decade Sinks Earnings as VW Profits Soar: Cars
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n ,   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-07-23T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/peugeot-lost-decade-sinks-earnings-as-vw-profits-soar-cars.html
When  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  reports
earnings tomorrow, it’s likely to show deepening losses as
European sales plunge. The French automaker’s declining fortunes
will come into sharp relief the following day, when  Volkswagen
AG (VOW)  is poised to post record profits, the result of years of
expansion outside the region and investments in Audi.  The diverging paths of  Europe ’s two biggest carmakers has
been a decade in the making. VW in the last 10 years increased
working hours for German employees, added eight Chinese plants,
opened a U.S. factory and poured billions into Audi. Peugeot
never developed a luxury marque, quit the U.S. in the 1990s and
had a slow start in Asia. The company is now fighting the French
government over plans to cut 8,000 jobs and close a plant.  “It’s no flash in the pan that the Volkswagen group is so
successful,” said Thilo Mueller, managing director of MB Fund
Advisory GmbH, which manages more than 100 million euros in
investments, including VW options. “Peugeot has slept through
some developments and did not succeed in using the success of
individual models to stir more interest in the brand.”  Peugeot will report a first-half operating loss of 91
million euros ($110 million), compared with a profit of 1.2
billion euros a year earlier, the median  estimate  of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg shows. VW is likely to post a 5.6
percent gain in operating profit, to a record 6.4 billion euros,
according to analyst estimates.  A decade ago, the roles were reversed. After trailing VW in
earnings for years, Peugeot in 2003 beat VW’s  operating profit 
by 238 million euros then widened the gap to 783 million euros
in 2004.  Longer Hours  To help pull out of the profit slump, VW in 2006 reached a
deal to extend the manufacturing work week by six hours to an
average of 35 hours. Though workers got no extra pay, they did
receive a one-time pension payment and guarantees that all VW’s
German factories would remain open. That year, the Volkswagen
brand cut 20,000 jobs in western  Germany , or 20 percent of its
workforce in the region. Operating profit doubled in 2007.
Peugeot, while also cutting thousands of jobs in the past
decade, left the work week for its French factory employees at
the government-mandated 35 hours.  Volkswagen -- which has 513,000  employees , 44 percent of
them in Germany -- last year saw net income of 30,698 euros per
worker, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Peugeot -- with
209,000 employees, 48 percent in  France  -- earned 2,813 euros
per worker in 2011.  “Volkswagen in 2003-2004 was the sick man of the European
automotive industry,” said Erich Hauser, a Credit Suisse
analyst in London. “VW understood two things that they needed
to get right: in Germany you cannot produce a budget product,
and if you produce in Germany you need to have a ruthless focus
on cost.”  New CEOs  On Nov. 7, 2006, both companies announced they would
replace their chief executive officers. VW turned to an insider,
giving the nod to Audi CEO  Martin Winterkorn , an engineer who
has spent his career in the  auto industry . Peugeot hired
Christian Streiff, a former Airbus SAS executive and previous
CEO of Cie. de Saint-Gobain SA, a supplier of building
materials.  Just over two years later, Streiff was gone. Reminiscent of
the current conflict between Peugeot and the government over the
proposed shutdown of its factory in Aulnay, France, Streiff had
a falling out in February 2009 with then-French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy . Streiff said he needed to eliminate thousands
of positions. Sarkozy countered the job cuts were inappropriate
given that the carmaker had just gotten a 3 billion-euro
government loan. The Paris-based automaker fired Streiff a month
later.  Audi Billions  Current CEO Philippe Varin, the former head of steelmaker
Corus Group Ltd., replaced Streiff. Winterkorn -- a confidant of
VW Supervisory Board Chairman  Ferdinand Piech , whose family
controls the carmaker -- last year received a contract extension
to continue running VW through 2016.  Under Winterkorn, first as Audi chief and then as the
group’s CEO, VW has poured 20 billion euros into the brand’s
research and development. Audi now sells 12 model lines, twice
what it had in 2003, including three sport-utility vehicles, the
A1 compact and the R8 sports car. Audi’s deliveries in the last
10 years have doubled, and the luxury brand now accounts for 47
percent of group operating profit.  “At the beginning of the 2000s, while Audi was a premium
brand, it was quite some way behind BMW and Mercedes,” said
 David Rubin , a fund manager at  Pictet & Cie , which owns both VW
and Peugeot shares. “It has now completely closed that gap.
It’s the ‘in’ brand as far as German luxury carmakers are
concerned.”  Premium Push  VW, which also owns Lamborghini, Bugatti and Bentley,
intends to continue the premium push, announcing a deal this
month to pay 4.5 billion euros for the half of sports-car maker
Porsche that it doesn’t own. Peugeot, by contrast, has never
developed a premium nameplate, relying on its Citroen DS line
for high-end offerings.  VW, based in Wolfsburg, Germany, in 2011 reported record
operating profit of 11 billion euros, compared with Peugeot’s
1.3 billion euros. Peugeot, which says it has been burning
through 200 million euros in cash per month, on July 12 said its
automotive unit had lost 700 million euros in the first half.  Investors have taken notice. VW stock is up 16 percent in
2012, valuing the company at 60.8 billion euros. Peugeot has
 plunged  39 percent this year and now has a market capitalization
of just 2.28 billion euros.  ‘Negative Spiral’  “There are so many advantages VW has compared to
Peugeot,” said Stefan Bauknecht, a  fund manager  at DWS
Investment in  Frankfurt . “I don’t see how Peugeot will get out
of this negative spiral.”  VW’s revenue last year hit 159 billion euros, an 80 percent
surge from 2003, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Peugeot’s sales increased 10 percent during that period to 60
billion euros. Last year, 65 percent of VW’s revenue came from
Europe, down from 71 percent in 2003, a result of expansion in
 China , the U.S. and Brazil. Peugeot’s home region still
accounted for 76 percent of its sales.  VW is benefiting from its big bet on China, which surpassed
the U.S. as the world’s largest auto market in 2009. Deliveries
in the country accounted for 28 percent of the 8.16 million cars
VW sold in 2011, and the automaker realized 2.62 billion euros
in operating profit in China last year.  Volkswagen, which entered China in 1985, has 10 factories
there and plans to add another four. Production capacity in the
country will rise to 4 million vehicles by 2018, when VW aims to
pass  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  General Motors Co. (GM)  as the world’s
largest carmaker.  Slow Start  Peugeot has been in China since 1992 and now has three
factories there. Last year it sold 404,400 vehicles in the
country -- about 11 percent of the company’s overall deliveries
-- and it received 150 million euros in net income from China.
By 2015, it aims to open four more factories in the country,
increasing total  production  capacity there to 950,000 vehicles.  Peugeot got off to a slow start in China because it didn’t
offer the right vehicle mix, said Sascha Gommel, a Commerzbank
AG analyst in Frankfurt with a hold recommendation on Peugeot
shares. “They started with hatchback cars, which were not
successful at all,” Gommel said. “Chinese customers prefer
sedans.”  In the U.S., the companies have both had a rough road.
Peugeot abandoned the market in 1992 after failing to gain much
traction there. VW’s U.S. operations lost 1 billion euros in
2004 as cars imported from Europe couldn’t compete with
domestically produced models from rivals.  U.S. Efforts  VW stuck it out. To complement its plant in  Mexico , the
company last year opened a $1 billion factory in Chattanooga,
 Tennessee , that makes a Passat tailored to American tastes. The
VW brand’s first-half sales in the U.S. surged 35 percent to
154,100 and Audi’s deliveries climbed 17 percent. In April Audi
announced plans to build a factory in Mexico to manufacture an
SUV. VW says that by next year its U.S. operations will break
even for the first time since 2003.  While VW is riding high, Juergen Pieper, a Bankhaus Metzler
analyst with a buy rating on both stocks, warns that it’s best
not to forget how things looked just a few years ago.  “The world is blaming Peugeot for everything nowadays; we
are probably at a low point,” Pieper said. “When I met the CEO
of VW seven years ago, people kept asking him why he didn’t do
the things Peugeot was then doing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  