-- Pfizer-J&J Alzheimer’s Drug Fails to Aid Cognition
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-07-24T20:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/pfizer-j-j-alzheimer-s-drug-fails-to-aid-cognition.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ,  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and
 Elan (ELN)  Corp.’s experimental Alzheimer’s treatment failed to
improve symptoms of dementia in the first of four pivotal
studies testing the drug.  Bapineuzumab, designed to target the brain plaques that
serve as a hallmark of Alzheimer’s, didn’t aid cognitive or
functional ability in patients who carry a gene, called ApoE4,
that makes them more likely to get the disease, Pfizer said
yesterday in a statement. Doctors now await results from trials
in patients without the higher genetic risk.  “There was no reason to believe, unless there was a
miracle, that this would be positive,” said Rudolph Tanzi,
professor of neurology at  Harvard Medical School  in  Boston . “It
will only be the results of the non-ApoE4 carriers that will
inform us about the future.”  Bapineuzumab is in a race with a similar product from
Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  to become the first therapy
to target a cause for Alzheimer’s, rather than just its
symptoms. While patients in the failed study, dubbed 302, have
now been taken off the drug, the other trials will continue, New
York-based Pfizer said in its statement.  Elan fell 12 percent to 9.79 euros in Dublin trading, its
largest one-day drop in two years. Pfizer fell 1 percent to
$23.38 at 4 p.m. New York time, and J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,
NJ, fell 1.1 percent to $67.35.  Beta Amyloid  Both bapineuzumab and the Lilly drug work by slowing the
production of beta amyloid, the protein that makes up the
plaques. Since research began on these drugs, other theories of
the disease have developed, including activity by a protein
called tau that tangles in the brains of patients.  It’s still too early to determine which treatment avenue
may work best to eliminate the disease, researchers said.  “While we are disappointed in the topline results of Study
302, a more complete understanding of bapineuzumab and its
potential utility in mild-to-moderate  Alzheimer’s disease  will
be gained,” said Steven Romano, Pfizer’s head of medicine
development for primary care, in the statement.  The first Alzheimer’s drugs, should they prove successful,
would lead to a market for the treatments worth $20 billion,
according to  Barbara Ryan , an analyst with Deutsche Bank, in a
June note to clients. If the second bapineuzumab study in people
who aren’t genetically predisposed to the disease is successful,
it could boost J&J’s sales by $2 billion in 2016, said  Larry Biegelsen , an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in New York.  Two Groups  The companies are conducting trials in two groups of
patients in four studies. The data outlined yesterday were from
U.S. patients with the ApoE4 gene, who tend to show symptoms of
Alzheimer’s earlier in life.  Researchers haven’t been optimistic that the drug would be
effective in patients with the gene, said Tanzi.  Patients with the Alzheimer’s gene didn’t benefit from
treatment in earlier studies, and they were given a lower dose
because of side effects, he said in a telephone interview.  The companies will “expedite the completion” of a second
study in patients with the gene outside the U.S. and provide it
as soon as possible. And data from the non-carrier study should
come this summer, said Mackay Jimeson, a Pfizer spokesman, and
the companies will do additional analyses of patients in the
failed study.  Full data are expected in September, when the companies
have said they will present findings from people without the
ApoE4 gene in  Stockholm  at the European Federation of
Neurological Societies meeting.  Disappointing Data  “While we are disappointed in the results of this first
study, the phase 2 trials suggested that ApoE4 non-carriers may
have a better chance of benefiting from bapineuzumab than ApoE4
carriers, and the results of the second study in non-carriers
due later this summer will shed more light on this
possibility,” J&J spokesman  Bill Price  said in a statement.  Pfizer decided to announce the trial had failed now because
it had patients stop taking the drug and was concerned news
would leak out before it could complete other trials, Jimeson
said. The companies previously said that they would release
results from the two U.S. studies at the same time.  The failure was no surprise, said  Mark Schoenebaum , an
analyst with ISI Group in New York. “Our current model carries
a 25 percent probability of success,” he said in a client note.  The Pfizer-J&J drug and the one from Lilly are based on one
of the first research strategies designed to combat the disease,
and use the same target. Eli Lilly shares fell 4.2 percent to
$41.98, the biggest one-day drop in almost three years.  Lilly ‘Negative’  Jami Rubin , an analyst with Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New
York, in a note to clients called the news a “negative” for
Lilly, “given the similarities of solanezumab and the low
likelihood of Lilly’s drug working on the roughly half of
Alzheimer’s disease patients who carry ApoE4.”  After autopsies of Alzheimer’s victims showed an
accumulation of  beta amyloid plaques  in their brains, drugmakers
began focusing on that as a potential cause. Since then, other
contributing factors have surfaced, including the
overdevelopment of a different protein, known as tau.  While most of the strategies currently in the third and
final stage of testing required for regulatory approval target
amyloid, the field is now moving beyond amyloid-only targets,
said Maria Carrillo, director of medical and scientific
relations for the  Alzheimer’s Association .  Mid-Stage Tests  There are more than 40 different compounds currently in
mid-stage tests for the disease, according to an accounting from
the association.  “We don’t think amyloid is going to be a magic bullet, but
it is important,” Carrillo said in an interview at the
association’s annual meeting last week. “This is a maturing
field with a variety of approaches, and we’re going to need
multiple approaches. We feel very hopeful about the maturation
of the field and the variety of approaches in development.”  One main complaint about the current studies with
bapineuzumab and Lilly’s drug solanezumab is that they were
given to patients who already displayed dementia.  New research shows that amyloid build up begins decades
before symptoms start, leaving patients potentially too damaged
to benefit from treatment. Studies are now planned to test
treatments in people at risk for the disease before signs of
dementia appear, based on brain imaging scans, age and genetics.  “We know a heck of a lot more now than we did 15 years
ago, when the first studies of bapineuzumab were being
designed,” Carrillo said prior to the latest findings being
released. “We are slowly moving the needle back in time for
these amyloid plaque busters.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  