-- Pfizer Led Corporate America’s Biggest Givers Last Year
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/pfizer-led-corporate-america-s-biggest-givers-last-year.html
Corporate donors kept a tighter hold
on cash in 2011 even while increasing their total gifts of money
and products to $17.1 billion, according to the  Chronicle of
Philanthropy ’s annual report.  Donations by 166 U.S. companies surveyed by the Chronicle
gained 15 percent from 2010, according to data released
simultaneously today by the newspaper and Bloomberg Rankings.
The cash portion grew more slowly, rising 4.4 percent in 2011
after a 13 percent jump a year earlier, as companies showed more
caution amid waning  consumer confidence  and a debt crisis in
 Europe , Chronicle editor Stacy Palmer said in an interview.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest drugmaker, was corporate
America’s largest donor for a third straight year, granting $3.1
billion in gifts in 2011. The New York-based company’s total was
little changed in 2011 and cash donations dropped 18.5 percent
as grant partnerships ended.  “Every company is stepping back and making sure that its
philanthropy is as efficient and effective as it can be,”
Caroline Roan, president of the drugmaker’s Pfizer Foundation,
said in a telephone interview. “We are not looking to make huge
new investments, but are assessing opportunities as they come
and making sure that people have access to the health care they
need.”  Some companies did manage to increase their cash
contributions.  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s largest
retailer, led the list of cash donors with $342.4 million, a 7.2
percent increase, according to the Chronicle of Philanthropy’s
data.  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  almost tripled its cash giving to $30.5
million last year, the Seattle-based coffee-shop operator said.  Demand Increases  Demand for aid from nonprofits has increased at a faster
pace than philanthropic giving by companies, Palmer said.  “Because of the small growth, many nonprofits aren’t
getting the money they need to do their jobs,” Palmer said.
“They are having to look to other sources like individuals
since they can no longer depend as heavily on these large
companies.”  The companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Stock Index hold
about $1.45 trillion in cash on their books, up from about $1.36
trillion a year earlier, according to their latest quarterly
filings compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  