-- Philips Profit Beats Estimates as CEO Reviews Future of Unit
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-07-23T10:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/philips-profit-increases-as-van-houten-extends-savings-push.html
Royal Philips Electronics NV
reported second-quarter profit that exceeded analyst estimates
as Chief Executive Officer Frans  van Houten  considers options
for the unit making MP3 players and consumer multimedia devices.  Earnings before interest, taxes, amortization and one-time
items were 504 million euros ($609 million) compared with 395
million euros a year earlier, the Amsterdam-based company said
in a statement today. The average estimate of three analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was 434 million euros. Philips shares
jumped the most in three months in the Dutch capital.  Van Houten in his second year as CEO is tackling struggling
consumer-electronic businesses against a backdrop of
deteriorating economies. The company is reviewing “various
business models” for its Lifestyle Entertainment division to
drive more value, and has signed a distribution agreement for
the unit in  North America  with Funai, it said in the statement.  “Importantly, Philips is considering the strategic options
for its Lifestyle Entertainment business, which we find a
positive development,” Erwin Dut, an analyst at Kempen
Research, said in a note. “Clearly Frans van Houten is taking
decisive action in addressing underperforming assets early.”  The stock rose as much as 8.5 percent to 17.59 euros, the
biggest intraday jump since April 23, and was 7.1 percent up at
17.36 euros as of 12:02 p.m.  The shares dropped 0.4 percent this year through yesterday,
valuing the company at 16.9 billion euros. Among its
competitors, Siemens AG had declined 6.4 percent, while  General
Electric Co. (GE)  had advanced 11 percent.  Multimedia Business  Sales of 5.89 billion euros beat a 5.58 billion-euro
analyst prediction.  Philips already sold the Senseo coffee brand to Sara Lee,
divested real estate and appointed new managers for health-care
and lighting units as it competes with Siemens and GE.  The audio, video and multimedia business generates about 2
billion euros in sales, according to Dut. Funai will take over
the distribution of products in North America but there isn’t an
immediate scope to sign similar agreements in other areas, Van
Houten said.  “With all the measures, Lifestyle Entertainment continues
to be profitable despite the diminished top line and that’s
testament to a management team that’s not only cutting costs but
bringing out exciting innovations,” the CEO said on a call.  Lighting to Stay  The Dutch electronics maker, which also makes hospital
scanners and other medical equipment, plans to keep its lighting
division, even as a close competitor opts to divest its bulb
unit. Siemens is poised to sell its competing lighting division
when markets improve.  Philips’ market share in LED lighting has now overtaken its
position in traditional bulbs and there are opportunities as the
new technology gets more widely adopted by governments and
consumers. Philips won a contract to upgrade street-lighting to
LED in the Belgian city of Mechelen.  Any acquisitions will be limited to smaller opportunities
as the company’s focus is on operational improvement, the CEO
said.  Cumulative savings under the Accelerate reorganization
program total 176 million euros, and that figure should climb to
400 million euros by year-end, according to the company. More
improvements to profitability will come through in the second
half and into next year and the 2013 goals remain unchanged, Van
Houten said in a Bloomberg interview.  “Overall, the cost-saving initiatives are on track,
resulting in improved operational performance,” Van Houten
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  