-- Philippine Peso Weakens on Rate-Cut Speculation; Bonds Advance
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-23T08:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/philippine-peso-weakens-on-rate-cut-speculation-bonds-advance.html
The Philippine peso declined for a
third day and bonds gained on speculation the central bank will
cut its benchmark  interest rate  this week, reducing the allure
of the currency.  The peso has risen 2.9 percent in the past six months, the
best performer among emerging-market currencies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas has
scope to further ease monetary policy this year as inflation
moderates and the nation tries to manage capital inflows,
Governor Amando Tetangco said this month.  “Expectations of a rate cut have surfaced to help cool the
currency’s gains and ensure growth momentum,” said  Jonathan
Ravelas , Manila-based chief market strategist at  BDO Unibank
Inc. (BDO)  A weaker peso will aid exporters and boost the purchasing
power from remittances of overseas workers, he said.  The peso slid 0.5 percent to 42.058 per dollar in  Manila ,
according to Tullett Prebon Plc. One-month implied volatility, a
measure of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged at 5.6 percent.  The Philippine central bank cut the rate it pays lenders
for overnight deposits twice this year, by a combined 0.5
percentage point to 4 percent, before leaving it unchanged in
April and June. Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in June from a
year earlier, the slowest pace in three months.  Eleven economists forecast the central bank will keep the
overnight borrowing rate at 4 percent, two expected a cut of 25
basis points and another a reduction of 50 basis points, a
Bloomberg News  survey  showed before the July 26 meeting.  The yield on the government’s 5.875 percent bonds due March
2032 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.60
percent, according to prices from Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  