-- Police Say Workers’ Claim Maruti Used Bouncers ‘Nonsense’
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-07-23T18:31:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/police-say-workers-claim-maruti-used-bouncers-nonsense-.html
Police in the Indian state of
Haryana, home to  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ’s local unit, dismissed
union workers’ claims that bouncers employed by the company
attacked them and set fire to a portion of the factory.  The union workers “indulged in criminal activities,” K.K.
Sindhu,  police commissioner  for the Gurgaon district, said in an
interview yesterday. “This is nonsense about the bouncers.”  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  fell 5.9 percent yesterday to the
lowest in a month, after the company July 21 announced a lockout
pending a probe into last week’s violence that left a general
manager dead and at least 70 injured. Maruti may lose output of
1,600 cars worth 700 million rupees ($12.5 million) a day
because of the stoppage, according to Ashvin Shetty, an analyst
at Ambit Capital Pvt. in Mumbai.  Maruti Suzuki Workers’ Union, in an e-mail statement on
July 19, said the company hired bouncers to attack and
intimidate workers. Ram Meher Singh, president of the labor
union, didn’t respond to two calls made to his mobile phone.  Police arrested 99 people in connection with the violence,
according to Ranjiv Singh Dalal, director general of police of
Haryana state. Authorities may charge all 3,000 union  workers  of
murder and attempt to murder because they engaged in a mob
attack, Maheswar Dayal, deputy commissioner of police in
Gurgaon, said on July 19.  Sindhu said yesterday police may not charge all the workers
with murder and were only detaining them to obtain information
about the incident. The management is free to resume operations
at the factory, he said.  Suzuki has said production facilities weren’t damaged by
the unrest. Still, R.C. Bhargava, chairman of Suzuki’s local
unit, said work won’t resume till a probe is complete.  “We cannot risk any further damage,” Bhargava said July
21. “That’s the reason why it’s necessary for us to do a
complete investigation into the events that happened and
identify the factors that caused the events to happen. What were
the causes, what was behind all this, why did it happen?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in  New Delhi  at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ;
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  