-- Private Equity Loses to Junk as Dealmaking Wanes: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-07-23T09:48:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/private-equity-loses-to-junk-as-dealmaking-wanes-credit-markets.html
Private-equity firms from  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  to  Carlyle Group LP (CG)  that fueled an expansion in the
market for junk bonds and loans during the leveraged buyout boom
are now loading up on that debt as takeovers dwindle.  Blackstone’s credit business, the only unit at the world’s
biggest private-equity company to boost profit in the second
quarter, increased its assets by 50 percent in the 12 months
ended June 30, according to a regulatory filing last week.
Carlyle’s global-market strategies unit, which is mostly
invested in debt, has almost tripled its assets since March 2010
to become the firm’s fastest growing business.  LBO firms are expanding purchases of speculative-grade
bonds and loans as dealers cut their corporate debt  holdings  by
84 percent since 2007 and investors shifted $41.4 billion this
year into funds that buy the assets. KKR & Co. plans to open two
debt funds for individuals to help bolster its offerings beyond
leveraged-buyout funds after the value of  private-equity  deals
in the second quarter fell 36 percent from a year earlier.  “If you can’t put equity into a new deal, you can buy the
debt of an old deal,” said Jason New, head of distressed
investing at New York-based Blackstone’s GSO Capital unit, which
oversees $50.5 billion. “We have the added advantage of a lot
of institutional knowledge of these companies.”  Junk Divergence  Private-equity firms are betting on credit even as a global
rush of cash into junk-rated debt in the U.S. pushes yields on
the bonds to within 0.5 percentage point of the record low,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The U.S.
market for high-yield, high-risk, or  junk bonds , rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than BBB- at
 Standard & Poor’s , has expanded to $1.01 trillion from $634.9
billion three years ago.  The managers are seizing on growing demand for higher-
yielding securities that has led to returns of 8.46 percent this
year for dollar-denominated junk bonds, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data show. They’re also seeking to take advantage of
a divergence in the market where bond buyers such as exchange-
traded funds favor the biggest, most actively traded securities
over debt that’s older, smaller and more difficult to trade.  The biggest and newest securities with the lowest ratings
have climbed an average 6 cents on the dollar this year, almost
double that of debt from smaller and older issues, according to
Barclays Plc data.  Bonds rated CCC, smaller than $250 million and issued more
than 18 months ago were trading at 91.6 cents on the dollar as
of July 19, up from 88.6 cents at year-end, Barclays data show.
Issues with the same ratings, greater than $500 million and sold
in the past 18 months traded at 98.3 cents, up from 92.3 cents.  ‘Very Attractive’  “This dynamic creates an opportunity for fundamental
credit investors like KKR to earn very attractive risk-adjusted
returns by taking on incremental credit and liquidity risk,”
KKR said in a July 18 regulatory filing.  Average yields on junk bonds in the U.S. of 7.72 percent,
up from last year’s low of 7.19 percent on May 19, 2011, are
helping to make up for a dearth of deals in the companies’
traditional profit center.  The value of private-equity deals announced worldwide in
the second quarter fell 36 percent to $102 billion from a year
earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  About $913 billion in private-equity deals were announced
in the three years after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. filed for
bankruptcy in September 2008 and triggered a credit-market
seizure, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Flip Side’  That’s less than half of the $2.38 trillion announced in
the three years before the crisis, when debt-funded buyouts of
companies from Energy Future Holdings Corp., the former TXU
Corp., to First Data Corp. spawned leveraged loan offerings that
more than doubled the market in three years.  Leveraged loans outstanding soared to as much as $596
billion by the end of 2008, from $247.8 billion in 2005,
according to data from S&P’s Capital IQ Leveraged Commentary &
Data. About $524 billion of the debt was outstanding as of July
13, the data show.  “Investing in sub-investment-grade corporate credit for
private-equity firms is the flip side of the same coin that
they’ve always been involved with,” said New of GSO Capital,
which has the world’s largest collateralized loan obligation
business with $25 billion under management. “It’s a pretty
natural extension of what they’ve always done in part because
they’re so familiar with credit.”  ‘Competitive Edge’  Founded in 2005, GSO is in a “big growth phase,” its
head,  Bennett Goodman , said in a Bloomberg Television interview
in May. Profit rose 31 percent to $54.7 million, while its
assets increased to $50.5 billion from $33.79 billion in June
2011.  Carlyle’s global-market strategies group is the Washington-
based firm’s fastest growing business, Chief Operating Officer
Glenn Youngkin said in a June 12 call with investors.  It increased assets to $28 billion as of March 31 from $10
billion in March 2010 and recorded a 3 percent second-quarter
gain for its so-called carry funds, which include distressed,
mezzanine and energy mezzanine strategies, according to a
preliminary statement on July 9. That’s the biggest increase
among the firm’s carry funds for the period.  “We’re looking to create strategies where we think we have
a competitive edge in the formulation and execution over the
long term,” Mitch Petrick, who heads Global Market Strategies,
said in a telephone interview.  Highland Capital  Carlyle said in February it finished acquiring businesses
overseeing 2.1 billion euros ($2.6 billion) of CLOs from
Highland Capital Management LP. Issuance of CLOs, a type of
collateralized debt obligation that pool high-yield loans and
slice them into securities of varying risk and return, has
increased this year along with the price of the underlying debt.  The S&P/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 Index has climbed for
seven straight weeks, rising 0.2 cent last week to 94.29 cents
on the dollar, the highest since May 15. The measure, which
tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien leveraged
loans, has climbed from 91.8 on June 5, the lowest since Jan. 6.  New York-based KKR, run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts ,
plans to open two debt funds for individual investors called the
KKR Alternative Corporate Opportunities Fund and the KKR
Alternative High Yield Fund, it said in filings. Both funds will
be managed by KKR Asset Management, the firm’s San Francisco-
based unit focused on public investments.  ‘Third Inning’  Thomas H. Lee’s THL Credit acquired a $2.5 billion debt
manager that oversees high-yield bonds, loans and CLOs from
McDonnell Investment Management LLC, it said in a July 11
statement. The unit also manages a business development
corporation, buys subordinated debt and equities from companies
with annual revenues between $25 million and $500 million. It
now oversees $2.8 billion of assets, according to its website.  “We’re in maybe the third inning of this fusion of credit
and private equity,” said James Hunt, chief executive officer
and chief investment officer of THL Credit Advisors LLC, the
Boston-based debt unit of Thomas H. Lee, in a telephone
interview earlier this month.  Flows into high-yield bond funds total $39.4 billion this
year, up from $13.94 billion in the same period of 2011 and $8.3
billion for all of last year, according to EPFR Global data.
Inflows into floating-rate funds, including leveraged loans,
have totaled $1.94 billion following $5.93 billion in all of
2011.  At the same time, the 21 primary dealers that trade
directly with the  Federal Reserve  reduced their corporate bond
holdings to a record low of $37.5 billion as of July 11, a 20
percent decline from the end of 2012 and down from a peak of
$235 billion in 2007, Fed  data  compiled by Bloomberg show.  Spreads Tighten  “We have more exposure to sub-investment-grade debt than
all of  Wall Street  combined on any given day,” said GSO
Capital’s New. “The investment banks have dramatically reduced
their high-yield and leveraged-loan inventory.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the extra yield investors
demand to hold corporate bonds globally rather than government
debt fell for a seventh week. Offerings worldwide decreased as
the cost of protecting the debt from default in the U.S. dropped
for a second week. In  emerging markets , spreads narrowed.  Relative yields on company bonds from the U.S. to  Europe 
and  Asia  narrowed 7 basis points to 205 basis points, or 2.05
percentage points, the lowest since May 4, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Global Broad Market Corporate index.
Spreads have declined from 236 on June 1, the highest since
January. Yields fell to 3.007 percent, a record low, from 3.124
percent on July 13.  Goldman Sachs  The Barclays Global Aggregate Corporate Index has returned
1.49 percent this month, bringing returns for the year to 5.72
percent.  Bonds of New York-based Goldman Sachs Group Inc., the
fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, were the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers last week,
with 712 trades of $1 million or more, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  A $3 billion four-part offering from  San Jose , California-
based EBay Inc. led $64.6 billion of corporate bond sales
worldwide last week, a 20 percent decrease from $80.3 billion in
the period ended July 13, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Weekly  sales  have averaged $74.8 billion this year. A $1 billion
portion of 2.6 percent, 10-year notes from the world’s largest
Internet marketplace rose 0.8 cent from the July 19 issue price
to 100.7 cents on the dollar to yield 2.5 percent, Trace data
show.  Credit Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment-Grade index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, decreased 0.6 basis point to a mid-price of
111.3 basis points, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings added seven to 176 at 10:46 a.m. in
 London . The  Markit iTraxx Asia  index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside  Japan  rose 8 basis points to 170 basis points.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  In emerging markets, relative yields narrowed 6 basis
points to 351.7 basis points, according to  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index . The benchmark has tightened from this
year’s high of 440.9 on Jan. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in  New York  at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 