-- PTT Exploration Slides on $3.1 Billion Share Sale: Bangkok Mover
-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n
-- 2012-07-23T09:40:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/ptt-exploration-slides-on-3-1-billion-share-sale-bangkok-mover.html
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP) 
fell the most in two months in Bangkok trading after saying it
plans to raise about 98 billion baht ($3.1 billion) in the
nation’s biggest equity offering to fund expansion.  The shares fell 4.8 percent to 157.50 baht, the largest
decline since May 23. The stock was the fifth-biggest loser in
the 490-member  SET Index (SET) , which dropped 1.9 percent.  PTTEP, which plans to spend about $20 billion by 2016 to
raise output, will sell 650 million new shares to its parent  PTT
Pcl (PTT)  and other shareholders to support new projects, Chief
Executive Officer Tevin Vongvanich  said  on July 20. The company
needs to finance its 1.2 billion pound ($1.9 billion) bid for
Cove Energy Pcl after beating  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  in the
contest for control of the East Africa-focused explorer.  “$3 billion is higher than our forecast of $2 billion
earmarked to buy Cove,” Paworamon Suvarnatemee and Wattana
Punyawattanakul, analysts at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote in a
note today. “Extra proceeds would be reserved for new
investments, which we believe generate lower return but higher
risks than existing assets in its portfolio.”  The stock sale will help PTTEP meet a target to increase
daily production of oil and natural gas to 900,000 barrels of
oil equivalent by 2020, Tevin said in a statement on the
company’s  website . Daily sales volume was 253,411 barrels of oil
equivalent in the first quarter, according to the company.  Biggest Sale  The number of shares offered and the amount PTTEP plans to
raise implies a minimum price of 150 baht for each new share,
according to Credit Suisse’s Paworamon and Wattana. The sale
would be  Thailand ’s biggest ever equity offering, topping  Siam
Commercial Bank Pcl (SCB) ’s 65 billion-baht share sale in 1999,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Through this offering, we seek to optimize our  capital
structure  and increase our financial flexibility for future
expansion and investment,” Tevin said in the statement. “At
the same time, we will expand our footprint in different regions
worldwide to secure additional oil and natural gases to meeting
the increasing energy demand in Thailand.”  The share price will be fixed through a “book building”
process, Tevin said.  PTT, PTTEP’s parent, will buy as many as 403.4 million
shares to keep its ownership of PTTEP at about 65 percent, PTTEP
said in a regulatory filing. A further 214.4 million shares will
be offered to the public and 32.2 million shares will be set
aside to meet potential excess demand, it said.  Shares of PTT fell 4.1 percent to 326 baht, the biggest
decline since Oct. 20.  PTTEP has oil and gas projects in countries including
 Canada , Australia, Myanmar, Indonesia,  Vietnam  and Oman.  Cove’s largest asset is an 8.5 percent holding in
Mozambique’s Rovuma Area 1, where a group led by  Anadarko
Petroleum Corp. (APC)  has found as much as 60 trillion cubic feet of
recoverable natural gas, more than six times the U.K.’s existing
reserves. Cove raised its estimate of the find in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  