-- Qatar Air Vies With China’s Hainan for Saudi Services
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 2012-07-23T08:37:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/qatar-air-vies-with-china-s-hainan-for-saudi-services.html
Qatar Airways Ltd. and  China ’s
Hainan Airlines Co. are among carriers vying to offer domestic
flights in  Saudi Arabia  after an initial 14 applicants were cut
to a shortlist of seven, the kingdom’s aviation regulator said.  Other operators still in the running after an assessment of
financial strength and experience include Gulf Air of Bahrain
and rival Bahrain Air, Khalid al-Khaibary, a spokesman for the
Saudi  General Authority  of Civil Aviation, said in an interview.  Domestic flights in the largest Arab economy are currently
limited to Saudi Arabian Airlines and discount carrier  National
Air Services . With  travel demand  increasing as the population of
28 million grows by 3 percent annually, more than one license
may be awarded, al-Khaibary said, with winners to be announced
in October and flights starting by the fourth-quarter of 2013.  “The authority aims to establish a more competitive
environment in the aviation sector, especially with demand
exceeding supply and creating reservation bottlenecks,” al-
Khaibary said by telephone. “Companies will be able to choose
which points to serve and choose any airport as a base.”  Qatar Air ranks as the second-biggest Middle Eastern
carrier, behind Dubai-based Emirates, while Hainan Air, the
fourth-largest Chinese operator, has interests in 13 other
airline companies via parent HNA Group Co.  Egyptian Bids  Also shortlisted are Egyptian carrier Almasria Universal
Airlines, supported by the Saudi Arabia-based  Islamic
Development Bank , and Nesma Airlines, also from  Egypt , backed by
diversified Saudi group Nesma Holding Co. Dubai-based Falcon
Express Cargo Airlines is bidding to begin a freight service.  Saudi Arabia’s government is spending more than $500
billion on infrastructure, real estate and industry as the oil-
rich economy expands a predicted 6 percent this year, the
second-fastest rate in the Gulf Cooperation Council after
 Kuwait , according to International Monetary Fund forecasts.  While domestic airline traffic last year jumped 19 percent
and the passenger total at the country’s 28 major airports rose
almost 14 percent to more than 54 million, according to the
aviation authority’s  website , price caps have made it difficult
for some operators to sustain profitability.  Sama, a discount carrier that had competed with National
Air, collapsed in 2010 after only three years of operations.  Qatar Air Chief Executive Officer Akbar Al Baker said on
July 3 that the carrier was interested in establishing a Saudi
offshoot only if the government there agreed to a “fundamental
rethink” of aviation policies, including fare controls and
“excessive” fuel charges.  Al-Khaibary said the award of domestic operating licenses
is being viewed as “very important for the kingdom.” Successful
carriers will also be able to link services with international
flights to the country, assuming bilateral agreements exist.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at   twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  