-- Rand Falls to Three-Week Low as Yields Rise on Europe Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-07-23T14:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/rand-falls-to-three-week-low-as-yields-rise-on-europe-concern.html
The rand fell to a three-week low
and yields rose for the first day in three as concern increased
that  Europe ’s debt crisis is deepening and last week’s interest
rate cut damped foreign investor demand for  South Africa  assets.  The country’s currency retreated as much as 2.3 percent to
8.4776 per dollar, the weakest since June 27. It traded 2.2
percent down at 8.4678 by 3:44 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on
the nation’s 6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 6.58 percent.  A surge in Spanish bond yields dimmed the outlook for a
bill sale tomorrow before  Greece ’s creditors meet this week amid
doubts the country will meet bailout commitments. German Vice
Chancellor Philipp Roesler said he’s skeptical European leaders
will be able to rescue Greece. The South African Reserve Bank’s
Monetary Policy Committee lowered its repurchase rate on July 19
to 5 percent from 5.5 percent, the first cut since 2010.  “ Spain  seems to be driving markets lower across the board,
and that’s going to keep putting pressure on emerging-market
currencies,” Ion de Vleeschauwer, the Johannesburg-based chief
dealer at Bidvest Bank, South Africa’s biggest chain of money-
changers, said by phone. “The rate cut hasn’t helped the rand,
and some market participants are discounting further rate
cuts.”  Lower  interest rates  reduce relative returns on the rand
for investors who borrow in dollars to buy high-yielding
currencies, known as the carry trade.  “If you’re a foreign investor, you’re looking at the
diminished carry and you’re saying, should I hold on to my rand
assets or should I get out while I can,” De Vleeschauwer said,
“We’re going to have to start getting used to weaker levels on
the rand.”  Stocks Retreat  Emerging-market stocks  fell the most since November and
Standard & Poor’s  GSCI index  of commodities retreated as much as
2.9 percent as the prices of metals including copper and nickel
decline. Metals and other commodities accounted for 45 percent
of South Africa’s exports last year, government data show.  South Africa’s benchmark stock  index  dropped the most in
three weeks, dragged down by commodity exporters including Anglo
American Plc and BHP Billiton Ltd. The  euro zone  buys 25 percent
of South Africa’s exports, according to government data.  “Short-term pressures have switched towards rand weakness
as concerns over Spain resume,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Things could get
worse.”  South Africa’s $1 billion of 5.875 percent bonds due 2022
rose eight basis points to 3.24 percent. The cost of protecting
South African dollar-denominated sovereign debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps increased 13
basis points to 155, up from this year’s low of 134 on July 18,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  