-- Raskin Says Fed to Debate Benefit of New Bond Buying Plan
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-07-24T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/raskin-says-fed-to-debate-benefit-of-new-bond-buying-plan.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said the Fed next week will debate whether to begin a
program to speed economic growth and reduce unemployment through
large-scale purchases of bonds.  Another round of Treasury purchases “is something that
will be debated in the upcoming FOMC meeting,” Raskin said
yesterday in response to audience questions after a speech in
Boulder, Colorado, referring to the  Federal Open Market
Committee . “It will be debated against the backdrop of the dual
mandate” to ensure stable prices and maximum employment.  The FOMC plans to meet July 31-Aug. 1 as reports point to
sputtering growth in the world’s largest economy. The Fed’s
options to promote faster job gains include expanding its
balance sheet, reducing the interest rate paid to banks for
reserves held at the central bank and altering communications on
the outlook for  interest rates , Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
testimony to Congress last week.  “The road back has been a slow one,” Raskin said at the
Graduate School of Banking at Colorado.  The Fed has held its  benchmark interest rate  to near zero
since December 2008 and purchased $2.3 trillion in bonds in two
rounds of quantitative easing. It has also extended the duration
of the average bond on its balance sheet through a program known
as Operation Twist.  Government bond yields tumbled yesterday to a record low as
investors grew concerned the deepening debt crisis in Europe
would further weigh on an already-slowing  U.S. economy . The
yield on the 10-year Treasury note hit 1.396 percent, while
government bond yields in the U.K. fell to record lows as well.
The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  dropped 0.9 percent to 1,350.52.  Declining Outlook  Reports since the June 19-20 FOMC meeting have signaled a
deteriorating economic outlook, with the Fed’s Beige Book
business survey noting “tepid” employment growth and cooling
manufacturing and retail sales in some regions. The report,
released July 18, gives central bankers an anecdotal look on the
economy before they next meet in Washington.  Raskin, formerly Maryland’s chief banking regulator, was
appointed to the Fed in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  