-- Treasury Starts Auctions of Shares in 12 Bailed-Out Banks
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-23T17:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/treasury-starts-auctions-of-shares-in-12-bailed-out-banks.html
The  U.S. Treasury Department  said it
started selling stakes today in 12 banks that received taxpayer
funds after the financial crisis as the administration seeks to
wind down its crisis-era bailout programs.  The Treasury said it was beginning auctions of preferred
stock and subordinated debt positions in the banks, which
include Marquette National Corp. of  Chicago , with about $1.7
billion in assets, and  Exchange Bank  of Santa Rosa,  California ,
with about $1.6 billion.  The auctions are part of the Obama administration’s efforts
to get repaid for initiatives such as the Troubled Asset Relief
Program, which Congress approved in 2008 to prevent further
damage from the financial crisis. The administration has said
the bailouts helped prevent a deeper recession, while Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  has slammed President  Barack Obama  for expanding the  budget deficit  to fund stimulus programs
and loans to General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC.  The election in November “is a factor” motivating the
Treasury to sell the bank shares quickly, said Kip Weissman, a
partner representing banks for Luse Gorman Pomerenk & Schick
P.C. in  Washington . “The administration wants this stuff out,
wants it resolved. There’s a lot of investor interest, but
they’re going down the food chain in terms of quality, and that
will be the issue.”  TARP Banks  Most of the 323 bailed-out banks still in TARP will be
unable to repay $10.8 billion in taxpayer funds they hold,
according to the Treasury. For those banks that don’t repay, the
administration is trying to sell its stakes in the remaining
lenders through auctions, and if it can’t, it will then pool
together shares of different institutions.  The Treasury estimates that taxpayers will make a $20
billion profit from the bank portion of TARP. Most of that gain
comes from funds repaid by firms including Citigroup Inc., Bank
of America Corp. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. That will offset
losses that Treasury has said it expects from smaller
institutions.  The administration is also trying to unwind its stakes in
companies including American International Group Inc., General
Motors and  Ally Financial  Inc. The Treasury has a 61 percent
stake in AIG, down from 92 percent. The government holds 32
percent of the common stock of General Motors and 74 percent of
Ally.  Residential Capital LLC, the bankrupt mortgage unit of
Ally, filed for bankruptcy May 14 with plans to sell most of its
assets to Fortress Investment Group LLC and companies it
controls.  Banks Auctioned  The other 10 banks whose stakes were offered today are CBS
Banc-Corp. of Russellville, Alabama; Commonwealth Bancshares
Inc. of Louisville, Kentucky; Diamond Bancorp Inc. of
Washington, Missouri; Fidelity Financial Corp. of Wichita,
 Kansas ; First Community Financial of Joliet,  Illinois ; First
Western Financial Inc. of Denver; Market Street Bancshares Inc.
of Mount Vernon, Illinois; Premier Financial Bancorp Inc. of
Huntington, West Virginia; Park Bancorporation of Madison,
Wisconsin; and Trinity Capital Corp. of Los Alamos,  New Mexico .  Under TARP, originally approved by Congress as a $700
billion program to rescue financial institutions, the Treasury
put cash into banks in exchange for equity stakes. Many bailout
recipients repaid TARP funds, plus interest payments on
preferred shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins  in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ; 