-- Treasury Yields Drop to Records as Europe Spurs Haven Bid
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-07-23T21:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/treasury-10-year-yield-touches-record.html
Treasuries climbed, with five-, 10-
and 30-year yields sliding to records, as concern mounted that
Greece’s failure to meet bailout targets may worsen the  European
debt crisis , stoking demand for the safest assets.  The  yield  on the 10-year note plunged below the old mark
set June 1 before the meeting tomorrow of Greece’s troika of
international creditors, while the cost of insuring Spain’s debt
rose to a record. The benchmark note extended gains after
Moody’s Investors Service lowered to negative the Aaa credit-
rating outlooks on Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg. U.S.
government debt added to last week’s rise before reports this
week forecast to show growth cooled.  “Money is fleeing every place in the world and then coming
here,” said  Thomas Roth , senior Treasury trader in  New York  at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. “The path of least
resistance is to lower yields. It’s all driven by Europe.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  fell three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.43 percent at 5 p.m. in New York.
The 1.75 percent note due in May 2022 rose 9/32, or $2.81 per
$1,000 face amount, to 102 30/32. The yield fell to as low as
1.3960 percent, with the five-year rate dropping to 0.5411
percent and the 30-year yield sliding to 2.4752 percent.  The 10-year record compares with an average of 3.76 percent
over the past 10 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volume, Volatility  Treasury trading  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , was at $204
billion, trading below the $241 billion average this year.  Volatility was little changed today at 61.6 basis points,
almost the lowest since May 10, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index. It dropped to a five-year low of
56.7 basis points on May 7, and has averaged 75.6 basis points
this year, touching a 2012 high of 95.4 basis points on June 15.
It reached a record high of 264.6 basis points in October 2008
as the financial crisis intensified. The index measures price
swings based on options.  The Federal Reserve today purchased $4.779 billion of
Treasuries due from July 2018 to June 2019 as part of a program
known as Operation Twist, in which it swaps short-term bonds in
its holdings for longer maturities to push long-term borrowing
costs lower.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and
Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called
quantitative easing, seeking to stimulate the economy.  Excessive Fed buying of Treasuries may reduce liquidity by
leaving less for private investors to buy, said Nathan Sheets,
global head of international economics at Citigroup Inc. Central
bank Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  instead may favor buying mortgage-
backed securities or using new tools for easing, he said.  ‘Financial Stability’  Purchasing too many Treasuries may “have a serious long-
term effect on the market,” Sheets, who until last August was
the Fed’s top international economist, said in a phone
interview. “The Fed implicitly has a mandate for financial
stability, and as part of that they’re concerned about ensuring
the functioning and integrity of financial markets.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  next meets on July 31 and
Aug. 1. While policy makers refrained from introducing a third
round of asset purchases at their meeting last month, Bernanke
indicated in two days of testimony in  Washington  last week that
it’s an option. The  benchmark rate  has been in a range between
zero and 0.25 percent since December 2008.  Valuation measures show U.S. sovereign securities are at
the most costly levels ever. The term premium, a model created
by economists at the Fed, surpassed negative 1.01 percent, the
all-time most expensive. A negative reading indicates investors
are willing to accept yields below what’s considered fair value.  ‘Forced’ Buying  Treasuries returned 1.2 percent this month after a 0.4
percent loss in June, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch
indexes.  “No one in the dealer community thinks yields are
attractive,” said  Brian Edmonds , head of  interest rates  in New
York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 21 primary dealers that
trade with the Fed. “It’s more of a trade where people are
being forced to buy.”  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year notes, the same
amount of five-year securities and $29 billion of seven-year
debt over three days starting tomorrow.  Ten-year U.K., Finnish and Canadian rates today fell to the
lowest on record, as did German two-year note yields. Japan’s
five-year yield slid to the least since 2003.  Spain, Italy  German bunds advanced after El Pais reported, without
citing anyone, that six Spanish regions may ask for aid from the
central government, and speculation grew that Greece will miss
its bailout targets. German  government bonds  handed investors a
2.6 percent return this month, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Credit-default swaps on Spain jumped as much as 31 basis
points to 636, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and were
at 632 at 1:30 p.m. in London. A basis point on a swap
protecting 10 million euros ($12 million) of debt from default
for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Yields on
10-year bonds surged over 7.5 percent.  Spain and Italy placed short-sale bans on stock. A three-
month bar was placed on trades that “constitute or increase net
short positions on shares” in the Spanish market due to
“extreme volatility” in European markets, Spain’s CNMV
regulator wrote in e-mailed statement. Italy’s Consob placed a
one-week prohibition on the practice on 29 banking and insurance
shares, citing “grave tensions” in markets.  Greek ‘Exit’  Greece will host a visit beginning tomorrow from the troika
of international creditors -- the European Commission, the
 European Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund . The
nation is struggling to meet obligations tied to the 240 billion
euros of rescue funding it has received over the past two years
as efforts to reduce its debt to 120 percent of gross domestic
product by 2020 fall short.  “Greece presumably is going to have to exit the euro,”
said  David Ader , head of U.S. government-bond strategy at CRT in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “With the troika meeting tomorrow,
there’s a real sense they will come away with nothing. And
that’s being reflected in the downward pressure in yields and in
the euro.”  Billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson  told clients
today he sees a 50 percent chance that the euro will break up,
said an investor who listened to the comments. Paulson, who runs
Paulson & Co. in New York, said on a conference call he expects
sovereign spreads to widen, according to the investor, who asked
not to be named because the call was private.  Armel Leslie , a
spokesman for the fund, declined to comment.  Economic Data  Figures from London-based Markit Economics scheduled for
tomorrow will show a  composite index  based on a survey of
purchasing managers in manufacturing and services in the euro
area was unchanged at 46.4 this month from June, according to
economists in a Bloomberg survey. A reading below 50 indicates
contraction.  The  U.S. economy  grew at an annualized 1.4 percent in the
second quarter, according to a Bloomberg News survey before the
Commerce Department report on July 27. That would be the slowest
pace since the period ended June 2011 and compares with a 1.9
percent rate in the first quarter of this year.  “We are stuck in a soft patch and there isn’t a lot that
can be done to change that in the near term,” said Dominic Konstam, global head of interest-rates research in New York at
primary dealer Deutsche Bank AG. “The consumer continues to
lose confidence.”  ‘Downside Limit’  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s top bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., wrote on Twitter that real assets are
a “better bet” amid negative real interest rates.  Investors may be able to maintain purchasing power with
real assets, Gross  wrote .  Real assets  include inflation-linked
bonds, commodities, real estate or some combination of those
assets, according to the company’s website. Gross’s $263 billion
Total Return Fund had 52 percent of its assets in mortgage-
related bonds and 35 percent in Treasuries as of June 30, the
 website  showed.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose 1.7 percent in June
from a year earlier, according to a July 17 report. The
difference between the consumer-price rate and the 10-year
Treasury yield, the so-called real yield, was minus 29 basis
points at the note’s current level.  The world’s biggest fixed-income investors are increasing
holdings of corporate debt as a haven from the negative real
yields on government debt from the U.S., the U.K. and Germany.  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Glenmede Corp. and at least four other
firms that collectively manage in excess of $4 trillion are
putting more of their money into the bonds of companies,
contributing to a record rally.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Robert Burgess  at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  