-- Three Seconds at 1972 Olympics Haunt U.S. Basketball
-- B y   D a n i e l   G o l d e n
-- 2012-07-23T20:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/three-seconds-at-1972-olympics-haunt-u-s-basketball.html
Nikolai Beshkarev, chief of the
basketball office of the Soviet Sport Games Department, rarely
traveled abroad with the national team. He made an exception to
attend a pre-Olympic tournament from June 30 to July 2, 1972, in
Munich for the Soviets and three other European squads.  The tall, elegantly dressed bureaucrat found time to visit
Renato  William Jones , secretary-general and co-founder of the
 International Federation of Amateur Basketball , known by its
French acronym, FIBA, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its
September issue. A bow-tied, cigarillo-smoking, ex-British spy,
Jones ran the sport’s Olympic and world championships out of his
office in a leafy Munich suburb.  Jones didn’t speak Russian, so Beshkarev may have brought
an interpreter. He also likely arrived with vodka: the Soviets,
like most federation members, bestowed gifts on Jones, who
reigned over every aspect of international basketball, such as
deciding who would referee, who was eligible to play, and even
the rules of the game itself.  With the  Cold War  elevating every meeting of the
superpowers into a contest of political might, the Russians were
desperate to prevail in basketball. Going back to 1936, when
Jones persuaded Olympic authorities to introduce the sport, the
Americans had won seven straight gold medals en route to a 63-
game undefeated streak, the longest in the history of Olympic
team sports.  Booster Club  Beshkarev had good news for his superiors in Moscow. Jones,
who’d rooted for the Soviets at an earlier Olympic championship
game, remained a booster. Jones lauded the 1972 team’s “strong
athletic mastery” and its new coach’s “professional skills,
intuition, and strategy,” according to Beshkarev’s never before
cited report to his bosses in Moscow, which Bloomberg News
unearthed in a Russian government archive.  Ten weeks after Beshkarev’s visit, Jones sparked one of the
biggest disputes in Olympic history, one that’s still festering
on the eve of the London Games. With play stopped and one second
left on the clock in the championship game in Rudi-Sedlmayer-
Halle in Munich, the U.S. was ahead by a point -- 50 to 49.  Jones emerged from the packed crowd and, in an act as
startling as if Commissioner  David Stern  were to overrule a
referee in the NBA Finals, ordered game officials to put two
more seconds back on the clock. The Soviets got not one, but two
chances to score the go-ahead basket. And they did, upsetting
the U.S. 51-50 to win the first-ever basketball gold medal for
another country.  ‘Got Screwed’  Jones’s close friend, Hungarian Basketball Federation
President Ferenc Hepp, headed the panel that denied the U.S.
appeal and Jones himself at first refused to admit his
responsibility for resetting the clock.  Even the respective heads of state weighed in.  “Well, we got screwed,” President  Richard Nixon  lamented
to aides the next day in Washington. “I now know that there is
a God above,” Soviet General Secretary  Leonid Brezhnev  needled
U.S. National Security Adviser  Henry Kissinger  in Moscow.  As more than 200 nations prepare for London, the 1972
championship looms as a reminder of the rancor that can tarnish
the Olympics, one of the world’s most revered sporting events.
The Cold War is over, the USSR disintegrated more than 20 years
ago, and half of the Soviet players, who today would have
represented six different countries, have passed away.  Yet, the American players -- all living -- reject history’s
verdict. They never accepted their silver medals, which are
stored at the  Olympic Museum  in Lausanne, Switzerland. Captain
Kenny Davis and starting guard  Tom Henderson  even instructed
their descendants in their wills not to settle for silver.  ‘Earned’ Gold  Davis, 63, who works as a Converse footwear account
executive out of his home in Paint Lick, Kentucky, is organizing
the team’s first reunion in August. “We didn’t earn the
silver,” he says in a speech that he has given about 1,000
times in the past 40 years. “We earned the gold. All these
years later, not one player on our team has come forward to
accept the silver medal.”  The ending of the Munich game provoked one of the longest-
lasting and most politically charged wrangles in the Olympics,
which have been plagued by officiating complaints since the
first modern Games in 1896, says David Wallechinsky, president-
elect of the International Society of Olympic Historians. It
also may have marked the first time athletes spurned Olympic
medals, a method of protest that has since caught on. In 2008 in
Beijing, a Swedish wrestler upset about the judges’ awarding
victory to his semifinal opponent discarded his bronze medal.  ‘National Problem’  The surviving members of the 1972 Soviet team dismiss the
U.S. players as whiners.  “Americans always want to be first,” Ivan Edeshko, 67,
whose pass led to the game-winning basket in Munich, says in a
telephone interview. “If they’re not, they’re always looking
for a reason. That’s their national problem.”  Supporters have rallied around the graying Americans, who
count Philadelphia 76ers head coach  Doug Collins  and former U.S.
Representative Tom McMillen in their ranks. Illinois attorney
Donald “Taps” Gallagher is pressing Geneva-based FIBA and the
 International Olympic Committee  for a rehearing and gold medals
for the U.S. players.  The Lausanne-based IOC won’t reexamine the case, legal
counsel Andre Sabbah wrote Gallagher in May. “The matter is not
open for discussion,” FIBA Secretary-General  Patrick Baumann 
concurred in June. Gallagher has also petitioned the  New York 
office of the Court of Arbitration for Sport, which hears sports
disputes. It has yet to respond, he says.  Close Ties  Documents examined by Bloomberg News in Russia and the
U.S., and interviews with players, coaches, spectators, game
officials and basketball authorities, shed light on Jones’
motivations, the contest’s final seconds, and the aftermath.
Jones, who died in 1981, enjoyed close ties with the Soviets. He
expected whiskey and other gifts from favor-seekers, and ran
European basketball by whim. And he feuded with some American
basketball coaches and executives, who considered him a tyrant
and Communist sympathizer, according to unpublished
correspondence of longtime IOC President Avery Brundage.  Jones believed that U.S. domination was hindering
basketball’s growth worldwide, says James Fox, basketball
administrator from 1971 to 1981 for the Amateur Athletic Union,
which used to govern U.S. Olympic basketball.  Playing Field  “He was always hoping that someone would beat the United
States and level the playing field,” says Fox, 67.  In that mission, Jones succeeded. The Soviet victory
punctured the invincibility of the U.S., where  James Naismith 
invented basketball in 1891. Today it’s the second most popular
team sport behind soccer, with more than 500 million competitive
and recreational participants.  In 1972, the  National Basketball Association  was entirely
stocked with Americans. Alexander Belov, who scored the winning
basket in Munich, became the first Russian drafted by the NBA in
1975. Today, the NBA has 78 foreign-born players from 39
countries and territories. Among them is Germany’s Dirk Nowitzki, who in 2007 became the first European named the
league’s most valuable player. The 11 countries besides the U.S.
that will compete in London boast 26 current or former NBA
players.  “Nobody looked at European basketball until ’72,” says
Bill Bertka, 84, scouting director for the  Los Angeles Lakers .
“When the Russians beat us, people started paying attention.”  ‘Dream Team’  By proving that U.S. collegians were no longer a guarantee
for gold, the 1972 game also hastened the opening of the
Olympics to American professionals. The “Dream Team” headlined
by  Michael Jordan ,  Magic Johnson  and  Larry Bird  restored
American dominance with the 1992 gold medal.  “It let us know the rest of the world was getting a lot
better,” says Mike Bantom, a U.S. forward who led the 1972
final with nine rebounds and is now the NBA’s senior vice
president of player development. “We could no longer pick some
of our best college players, send them to train for three or
four weeks, and then beat the rest of the world,” says Bantom,
seated in his Manhattan office, a 1972 Olympic team photo
hanging behind him. “It was a preview of things to come.”  It was also a sobering lesson.  “At the time, it was the worst thing that ever happened to
me,” Bantom says. “For the first time, the good guys didn’t
win, justice didn’t prevail, and everything didn’t turn out
right.”  For the Soviets, who had long studied U.S. basketball, the
championship proved that the pupils could overtake the master.  Talked About  “They still talk about that particular game on TV and in
magazines,” says Atlanta Hawks center Zaza Pachulia, who was
born in the Soviet republic of Georgia in 1984. “It was an
amazing historical moment for the whole country, and especially
for Georgia.” Two Georgians were in the Soviet starting lineup.  Russian billionaire and Brooklyn Nets owner  Mikhail Prokhorov , 47, recalls watching the game on television as a
child in Moscow. His father, who handled international relations
for the Soviet sport committee, attended in Munich. “It made
heroes of the players, so it certainly didn’t hurt in terms of
my interest in the game,” he says.  The game’s significance transcended sports. In 1972, a
decade after the Cuban missile crisis brought the U.S. and USSR
to the brink of nuclear war, they were fighting the Cold War on
safer terrain -- hockey rinks and chessboards. In September, the
same month as the basketball gold-medal game, the Soviet hockey
team humbled North American pride by proving in the “Summit
Series” that it was the equal of Canada’s best. The world chess
championship in July-August 1972 in Reykjavik, Iceland, in which
Bobby Fischer of the U.S. defeated Boris Spassky of the USSR,
drew more than a million viewers on American public television.  ‘Proxy War’  “We were a proxy war,” says McMillen, a forward on the
1972 team, who represented Maryland in Congress from 1987 to
1993. “Brezhnev and Nixon could have arm-wrestled. We didn’t
have to go on court.”  The Olympic gold-medal game almost didn’t take place. The
Munich Games, which the host nation intended as a celebration to
erase the memory of the Hitler-orchestrated 1936 Games in
Berlin, were devastated by terrorism. A Palestinian group
calling itself Black September sneaked into the Olympic Village,
murdered an Israeli athlete and coach and took nine other
Israelis hostage.  Terrorist Attack  Television viewers tuning in for boxing or volleyball
instead saw armed, ski-masked  terrorists  patrolling the balcony
of the Israeli dormitory. After hours of negotiations, the
kidnappers killed the hostages during a rescue attempt at an
airfield. At a Sept. 6 memorial service in the  Olympic Stadium ,
IOC President Brundage decreed, “The games must go on.”  And they did. Both teams had already steamrolled lesser
rivals in the preliminary round, the U.S. winning its seven
games by an average of 33 points and the Soviets by 23.  The U.S., which had defeated the Soviets for the gold medal
in four previous Olympics, was favored to do so again even
though its squad averaged 20.6 years of age, five years younger
than its opponent. Each superpower was allotted a referee from
its sphere of influence, one from Bulgaria and one from Brazil.  To accommodate American TV, the Sept. 9 game began at 11:45
p.m. local time. There were so many Olympic athletes and
international celebrities among the 6,500 spectators jamming the
arena that King Constantine II and Queen Anne-Marie of Greece
and the Grand Duke and Grand Duchess of Luxembourg couldn’t find
seats.  “They enjoyed the game sitting on the floor” courtside,
Aliki Strongylos, assistant to Constantine’s private secretary
said in an e-mail. “His Majesty recalls the excitement and
confusion of the final moments.”  Halftime Lead  Like U.S. college basketball, the Olympic championship was
played in two 20-minute halves. The Soviets quickened their
normally methodical attack, pulling away to an early 10-point
lead. They were ahead at halftime, 26-21, and maintained their
advantage through most of the second half, only to falter in the
final minutes.  A furious American comeback culminated with eight seconds
left when Collins, then a 21-year-old senior at Illinois State
University, stole the ball and raced to attempt a layup. A
Soviet defender knocked him into a stanchion. The officials
whistled a foul, stopping the clock with three seconds
remaining. Revived by trainers, Collins sank the first of two
free throws, tying the game, 49-49.  Bizarre Sequence  Then the bizarre sequence that has bedeviled U.S. players
for four decades began to unfold. Soviet Head Coach Vladimir
Kondrashin wanted a timeout before Collins’ second shot, as the
rules allowed. He pushed a wired button that was supposed to
light a lamp on the officials’ table, signaling his request.  Instead, a mix-up ensued. The time-out horn didn’t sound
until Collins was already shooting his second foul shot, too
late for the referee to accommodate Kondrashin.  Kondrashin didn’t signal soon enough because the Soviets
had inadvertently thrown the wire apparatus under their bench
and had trouble retrieving it, official scorer Hans-Joachim
Tenschert says in a telephone interview. Coach Kondrashin,
though, said in a 1977 interview that the light system worked.
Kondrashin, who died in 1999, blamed officials for ignoring the
lamp.  Collins swished his second shot, giving the U.S. its first
lead, 50-49. A FIBA rule -- no longer in effect today --
prohibited calling timeout after a second free throw. Play
continued with Soviet guard Sergei Belov, defended by Collins,
dribbling futilely at mid-court -- until, with one second left
and an American victory seemingly assured, Brazilian referee
Renato Righetto halted the game.  ‘Drei Sekunden’  Soviet coaches complaining about the lost timeout were
disturbing officials at the scoring table, and he wanted to move
them back to the Soviet bench, Righetto said in a Nov. 10, 1972,
affidavit accompanying a U.S. appeal to the International
Olympic Committee.  Enter Jones. The FIBA chief approached the officials’ table
and held up three fingers. He was signaling Longines technician
Andre Chopard to restore the clock to the three seconds
remaining when Collins took his foul shots, according to a Sept.
17, 1972, statement Chopard gave supporting the U.S. appeal.  “It was a good thing that Jones was standing behind the
table near our bench,” assistant Soviet coach Sergei Bashkin
told journalist Anatoly Pinchuk in an interview published in
1977. “He raised three fingers and said, ‘Drei Sekunden.’”  Unprecedented Order  Today, referees sometimes use instant replay to reverse a
call and reset the clock. In 1972, Jones’ order was
unprecedented.  “It is 12 years that I have been timekeeping for Longines
and never once in my career did anyone ever ask me to extend the
time!” Chopard said in his statement. He complied, he said,
because Longines, a Swiss watchmaker, “does its work in the
service” of FIBA.  FIBA rules  specified that the officiating crew was
responsible for on-court decisions. That mattered little to
“the pope of basketball,” says scorer Tenschert, 64, a math
teacher in Dortmund, Germany.  “He was god of the rules,” says Willy Bestgen, 77, who
refereed seven games in the 1972 Olympics, and is retired in
Hagen, Germany. “He said on Saturday, red is red, and on
Sunday, red is blue. He told me always, ‘The last I said is
correct.’”  International Sphere  Jones was suited to the international sphere. Born in Rome
in 1906 to a British father and Italian mother, he learned
basketball as a teenager at a YMCA in Turin. He attended
 Springfield College  in Massachusetts, where Naismith had
invented the sport. Fluent in half a dozen languages, he co-
founded FIBA in Geneva in 1932. Based in neutral Switzerland
during World War II, Jones spied for Britain, say referee
Bestgen and Ursula Frank, who was Jones’ secretary, girlfriend
and confidante.  “He facilitated the exchange of information via various
channels, some slightly less legal than others,” according to a
1998 biography co-written by FIBA treasurer Manfred Stroeher and
published by the federation.  Separated with three children, Jones collected model trains
and antique whiskey bottles, invariably wore a bow tie over a
white shirt, and relished Chivas Regal. After moving from Bern
to Bavaria in 1956, Jones ran FIBA out of a three-story, box-
like, postwar building in Solln, a Munich suburb, holding
executive meetings on weekends.  ‘Outstanding Drinkers’  “From Saturday afternoon to Sunday night it was a drinking
and eating contest,” basketball journalist Noah Klieger, who
covered the meetings, recalled in an interview posted on FIBA’s
website. “The people involved were all outstanding drinkers.”  Bill Wall, 81, a teetotaler who ran the governing body for
U.S. basketball overseas, remembers meeting Jones for the first
time in 1975. Jones offered Wall a shot of Scotch with the
remark, “Young man, I don’t trust anyone who doesn’t drink.”
Wall complied, taking his first-ever drink of whiskey, he says.  Referees from East European countries with weak currencies
showered Jones with presents, hoping for lucrative assignments
to Western tournaments, according to Wall and Tenschert. Some
bottles and boxes for Jones and Frank, who arranged his
schedule, piled up at the Munich Olympics, Tenschert says.  “We don’t know what was in these things,” he says. “We
wondered about the fact itself -- they are bringing presents. We
in Germany don’t do this.”  “I received so many gifts,” says Frank, now 84 and
ailing.  Both superpowers courted Jones. In 1961, Jones showed up
from Moscow at a referee training program in England carrying
cartons of caviar, vodka and a crab delicacy known as Chatka,
gifts from the Soviet  basketball federation , Bestgen says.  Scotch, Silks  “We would always bring homage,” says Fox, the former
 Amateur Athletic Union  basketball administrator, now a special
assistant at U.S. Figure Skating in Colorado Springs, Colorado.
“The first thing you had to do was provide a half gallon of
high-quality Scotch,” plus silks and perfume for Frank.  George Killian, 88, then executive director of the National
Junior College Athletic Association, catered to Jones’ fondness
for model trains. Killian, who later became president of FIBA,
said he bought locomotives at a Lionel Trains store in Manhattan
for Jones.  Such gratuities couldn’t smooth over Jones’ turbulent
relationship with the U.S., which dated back at least two
decades before the Munich Olympics. After attending the 1952
gold-medal game in  Helsinki , Finland, in which the U.S. overcame
the USSR’s delaying tactics to win 36-25,  University of Kansas
basketball coach Forrest “Phog” Allen complained to the IOC’s
Brundage about Jones.  ‘High Glee’  “I am convinced in my mind that R. William Jones is a
collaborator,” Allen, enshrined in the  Basketball Hall of
Fame ’s inaugural class in 1959, wrote in 1953 in correspondence
preserved in the Avery Brundage Collection at the University of
Illinois Archives.  “Jones sat with the Russians and was in high glee with
them” when they were stalling to hold down the score. “If
Jones belonged any place, it certainly was not with the Russians
at that time or during any contest. He should have maintained a
neutral position.”  Jones defended himself to Brundage and American basketball
authorities.  ‘Loyal Subject’  “I have done my best to develop international basketball
in accordance with the Olympic ideals, transcending barriers
raised by politics, race or religion,” he wrote that same year.
“I am not a Communist. I am a loyal subject of Her Majesty
Queen Elizabeth II and do not belong to any political party.”  Jones received an honorary doctorate in 1963 from his alma
mater, Springfield College, and was inducted into the  Basketball
Hall of Fame , in Springfield, a year later. He was nonpartisan,
says Russian referee Mikhail Davydov, a member of FIBA’s
Technical Commission. “He was basketball man,” says Davydov,
64. “The interests of basketball dominated in his decisions.”  Davydov recalls a European championship game between clubs
from Madrid and Varese, held in the Italian city, in which there
was a dispute over a last-second basket by Madrid. The
timekeeper ruled that Madrid scored before time expired, giving
the victory to the Spanish team. For the timekeeper, an Italian,
“it was like suicide,” Davydov says. “Jones flew from Munich
and gave him a special medal for courage.”  Objectivity Tested  Jones’ objectivity was tested by the competing claims of
Taiwan and People’s Republic of China to represent China. At the
world championships in Chile in 1959, the USSR refused to play
against Taiwan. Resisting pressure to ban the Soviets from
international competition, Jones imposed a milder penalty,
relegating them to the bottom of the standings.  As a result, “some experts in the USA and other Western
countries even suspected Jones of ... harboring secret
sympathies for socialism,” according to the FIBA biography.  Jones further strained his relationship with the U.S. by
intervening in a factional dispute. FIBA had anointed the
Amateur Athletic Union, which ran leagues in which corporations
sponsored teams and employed players, to choose the U.S. Olympic
team. As industrial leagues waned, college basketball challenged
the AAU’s control. When Jones proposed a compromise, AAU
officials felt betrayed.  Clifford Buck, then AAU president, wrote Brundage in 1966
that Jones ran FIBA in a “dictatorial, undemocratic manner.”  Renewed Life  Six years later in Munich, Jones gave the Soviet team
renewed life. To reset the clock to three seconds, as Jones
demanded, Chopard turned it back to one minute, one second, and
started a countdown.  When the game resumed, a Soviet pass went astray, and a
horn sounded. Assuming time had expired, the Americans
celebrated and spectators stormed the court. Amid the chaos,
U.S. Head Coach Henry Iba’s wallet was stolen. ABC-TV announcer
Frank Gifford proclaimed that the U.S. had won its eighth
straight basketball gold, and a “final” score of 50-49 flashed
on viewers’ screens.  The horn, however, didn’t signal the game’s end. Instead,
the blast meant play had begun prematurely with the clock at 50
seconds, not three. Jones again insisted on restarting at three
seconds. When the Americans responded that it was done and won,
Jones threatened to strip them of the victory.  “A lot of people wanted to walk off the floor and go to
the locker room,” says John Bach, 88, then a U.S. assistant
coach. “I was the guy at the table talking to Dr. Jones. I
brought the message back from him, ’Put the U.S. team on the
floor or forfeit the gold.’  Head Coach Iba, who died in 1993, told Bach, “We won’t
lose the gold medal sitting on our asses,” says the assistant,
who has refused until recently to discuss the game publicly.
“To the day he died, he probably regretted putting the team
back on the floor.”  Game Over  For the Soviets, the third try was the charm. Alexander
Belov outjumped two American defenders, caught Edeshko’s full-
court pass, and carefully laid the ball off the backboard into
the basket. Jubilant Soviet players piled on top of him.  Bestgen, who wasn’t assigned to referee the game, sat in
the second row next to Vasily Alekseyev, the Soviet gold
medalist in super heavyweight lifting, who consumed four beers
and four sausages at halftime. The U.S. and USSR should have
replayed the game the next day, Bestgen says. “It’s impossible
that you have two winners in three seconds.”  Jones’ coverup began immediately.  “For a period of two days, Dr. Jones denied that he
ordered the clock set back,” M.K. “Bill” Summers, chairman of
the U.S. men’s basketball committee, wrote in February 1973 to
 Lord Killanin , who succeeded Brundage as IOC president after the
Munich Games. “Only after many witnesses and officials stated
publicly that they saw him order the last three seconds did he
finally admit doing so.”  Howard Cosell  The U.S. could only appeal to FIBA -- Jones’s organization.
Hungary’s Hepp, whom the FIBA biography calls “among Jones’s
closest friends,” headed a five-judge panel. Sportscaster
 Howard Cosell , also a lawyer, “skillfully pleaded” the U.S.
case, supported by referee Righetto, according to McMillen’s
1992 memoir, “Out of Bounds.”  Hepp protected his drinking buddy. “Dr. Hepp told us
forcefully we should only answer to their questions, nothing
more,” scorer Tenschert says. “About Jones and his actions at
the end of the game the committee did not want to know.”  The committee upheld the Soviet victory along Cold War
lines on Sept. 10. Hepp and judges from Cuba and Poland were in
the majority; those from Italy and Puerto Rico reportedly
dissented.  U.S. Refuseniks  Caucusing after the game, U.S. players agreed to forego the
silver medals. McMillen, at first a holdout, yielded. The
refuseniks withstood pressure from U.S. Olympic officials aware
that the International Olympic Committee was considering moving
up bronze-medalist Cuba to second place, and Italy to third. The
IOC ultimately rejected that option, and the silver medalist
platform sat empty.  The 84-year-old Brundage, a Detroit native, was inundated
with letters and telegrams from compatriots. “Maybe you should
renounce your citizenship, you senile old goat,” wrote a
Virginia Tech student.  Jones’s old AAU adversary, Clifford Buck, who had become
president of the U.S. Olympic Committee, called for retaliation.
The U.S. should pull out of Olympic basketball to avoid
subjecting “our athletes to any more of the gross malfeasance
we have experienced at the hands of the FIBA administration,”
Buck announced.  The Nixon administration fumed. “The game has to have been
over,” White House Chief of Staff H.R. Haldeman told Nixon on
Sept. 11, 1972, in the Oval Office in a previously unreported
conversation preserved on the White House tapes.  Kissinger Gibe  That afternoon in the Executive Office Building, Nixon and
staffers discussed how to respond. When the president complained
that “we got screwed,” they warned him against acting like a
sore loser. While “everybody here believes we got screwed,” an
unidentified aide said, “You’re better off not to be on record
as complaining about the officiating.”  That same day, Brezhnev and Kissinger talked in the
Kremlin. Kissinger had just arrived from Munich, where he’d met
with West German Chancellor Willy Brandt. “We are hoping to
finalize” plans for a conference on European security, Brezhnev
told him.  “You will defeat us in the last three seconds,” replied
Kissinger, according to a declassified White House transcript.  The IOC refused to review the gold-medal decision in
February 1973, despite statements supporting the U.S. from
Longines’ Chopard, referee Righetto, and four officials from the
courtside table. Killanin wrote Buck that it was “a technical
question outside the competence of the Executive Board.”  Olympic Boycotts  The superpowers waited 16 years for a rematch after Munich.
In 1976, the USSR lost in the semifinals to Yugoslavia, which
the U.S. defeated for the gold.  The U.S. stayed home in 1980 to protest the Soviet invasion
of Afghanistan. In a speech in Moscow, which hosted the
Olympics, Jones called President  Jimmy Carter  a “son of a
bitch.” In 1984, the Soviets boycotted the Olympics in Los
Angeles.  When they met in the 1988 semifinals in Seoul, Korea, the
1972 victory inspired the Soviet team, which prevailed 82-76.  “We knew the Americans were not unbeatable,” says
Alexander Volkov, a forward on the 1988 Soviet team and now
president of the Ukrainian Basketball Federation. “They already
lost once.”  Successive defeats to the USSR were more than the American
public could stand. McMillen circulated a resolution in Congress
to send professionals to the Olympics. With the backing of NBA
Commissioner Stern, FIBA dropped restrictions on professionals
in 1989. Three years later, the “Dream Team” coasted to the
gold.  Younger Olympians  The  London Games  may be the last time that NBA superstars
represent the U.S. in the Olympics. To protect franchise players
from injury, Stern will talk with FIBA about sending a team of
players aged 23 or under in 2016, says league spokesman Michael Bass. All nations competing in Olympic basketball would have to
comply with the age limit under Stern’s proposal, Bass says.  Such a young squad might struggle against global
competition, as the U.S. collegians did in 1972. The Munich
debacle has haunted them ever since. NBA senior vice president
Bantom, who fouled out of the game, says he ran into Soviet hero
Edeshko in Moscow in the early 1990s, at an NBA clinic for
Russian coaches. After they shook hands, Bantom says, he asked,
“Where do you keep my gold medal?”  Edeshko laughed.  “I’m not joking,” Bantom says he replied. Edeshko says he
doesn’t recall the incident.  Winner, Loser  Edeshko does remember that Doug Collins brushed him off
when their paths crossed at an exhibition game in the U.S. in
the late 1980’s. “I said, ‘I don’t want to meet that guy,’”
Collins told  Sports Illustrated  in 1992.  Gallagher, the Illinois attorney, offered a solution to
four decades of U.S. disappointment. Since 2008, he has
collected agreements from 11 of the 12 U.S. players that gold
medals for both teams would be a fair solution. Not Davis. The
captain only wants gold if the Soviets are stripped of it.
“Basketball games have a winner and a loser,” he says.  Davis, who is looking forward to the team reunion in August
at his alma mater, Georgetown College in Georgetown, Kentucky,
remains a prisoner of the Munich loss, he says. Because his
grandson’s kindergarten graduation this past May took place in a
gymnasium, it set him brooding over his Olympic disappointment.  “‘Three more seconds,’” he says in a mock-German accent,
imitating the game’s public-address announcer. “‘Three more
seconds.’ I hear that in my sleep.”  (A condensed version of this story appears in the September
issue of Bloomberg Markets.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Golden in Boston at 
 dlgolden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  