-- Relative Growth Aids U.S. Asset Demand, Sinche Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-07-23T19:05:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/relative-growth-aids-u-s-asset-demand-sinche-says-tom-keene.html
U.S. economic growth exceeding the
rest of the world is offsetting lack of action from lawmakers in
bolstering demand for dollar-denominated assets, said Robert Sinche, global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc.  “The U.S. still has growth and relative to the rest of the
world that is attractive,” said Stamford, Connecticut-based
Sinche in a Bloomberg Television interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene , Sara Eisen and Scarlet Fu. “If
you have a zero-discount factor or zero-interest-rate
alternatives around the world, then any kind of growth remains
constructive.”  A Commerce Department report this week may show that the
 U.S. economy  grew at a 1.4 percent annual rate in the second
quarter after a 1.9 percent pace during the first three months
of the year. That compared with to contractions of 0.5 percent
in the euro zone and 0.3 percent in the U.K.  Demand for refuge from Europe’s financial crisis pushed
 interest rates  on debt in the U.S., U.K., Canada, France,
Germany and the Netherlands to record lows during the past week.
Germany sold two-year notes for a negative yield for the first
time July 18. Treasury 10-year note  rallied , pushing yields to a
record low 1.4 percent today.  “It’s amazing that we’re talking about all these major
monetary actions, yet we have this fiscal dilemma facing us all
throughout  Europe , major fiscal policy issues in the U.S. and
all the politicians want to talk about is whether we can tweak
interest rates a little bit,” Sinche said.  Representatives from the so-called troika of the
 International Monetary Fund , the European Commission and the
 European Central Bank  are due to visit Greece tomorrow to assess
the country’s progress in implementing its adjustment program.  The euro reached a two-year low against the dollar and an
11-year low versus the yen in New York trading. The share
currency was at $1.2120 and 95.08 per yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in  New York  at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  