-- Republicans Make Another Keystone Push After  Rejection
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-07-23T17:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/republicans-offer-bill-to-push-keystone-xl-over-obama-rejection.html
House Republicans drafted another
bill to speed work on the Keystone XL oil pipeline after
previous efforts failed to overturn President  Barack Obama ’s
rejection of a permit for the project.  The legislation proposed by Representative  Lee Terry  of
Nebraska and other Republicans would let the section of the
proposed  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  pipeline across Montana and South
Dakota advance without Obama’s approval. Obama rejected the
project in January, and urged the company to reapply while a
revised route is studied to avoid an aquifer in Nebraska.  Republicans have made unsuccessful efforts to force a
permit for the project, including adding language in the House
version of a highway spending bill that failed in the Democrat-
led Senate. The latest bid also is unlikely to win Senate
backing.  The legislation is a “new, improved Keystone bill” that
would create thousands of jobs and increase U.S. energy security
by allowing work on another part of the project to commence,
Terry said today in Washington.  The legislation would waive the requirement for additional
environmental reviews of the route from  Canada  to Nebraska’s
northern border. Nebraska officials are studying the impact of a
revised route filed by Calgary-based TransCanada across the
state.  Critics say extracting oil from Canada’s tar sands in
Alberta releases more greenhouse gases than conventional
drilling. They also said the original route threatened the
Ogallala drinking-water aquifer in Nebraska.  The U.S. State Department must approve the project because
it crosses an international border. Terry previously introduced
legislation that would require the  Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission  to approve TransCanada’s Keystone application within
30 days of receipt.  While there were no plans to bring the new bill for a vote,
Terry said that “if an opportunity arises we are poised to take
advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  