-- Watsa’s Fairfax Becomes RIM’s Biggest Shareholder
-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-23T20:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/rim-holder-fairfax-doubles-stake-in-blackberry-maker.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  shareholder
 Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH)  almost doubled its stake in the
BlackBerry maker, making it RIM’s biggest investor and offering
a vote of confidence to the ailing Canadian company.  Fairfax, an insurer run by Toronto-based investor  Prem Watsa , owns 51.9 million RIM shares, according to a regulatory
filing today. It held 26.8 million shares as of April 1,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company raised its
stake to 9.9 percent, worth about $351 million.  RIM shares have tumbled 95 percent from their 2008 peak as
falling sales of BlackBerry smartphones erode RIM’s market share
in an industry it once dominated. A recovery at RIM, which has
lost consumers to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and devices built on
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, may take three to five years and
the BlackBerry maker’s stock is undervalued, Watsa said in
April. He joined RIM’s board in January as part of a management
overhaul that included the replacement of co-founders and co-
CEOs Jim Balsillie and Mike Lazaridis with German-born CEO
Thorsten Heins.  Watsa’s decision to double down on RIM took him past
Lazaridis and Balsillie as well as Primecap Management to become
RIM’s biggest shareholder. He has a history of making contrarian
bets, having predicted the downfall of U.S. banks tied to the
collapse of the subprime mortgage market. Fairfax’s profit
before one-time items reached a record $1.69 billion in 2008 as
the company’s bet on credit-default swaps on U.S. banks and
insurers paid off.  Fairfax History  Watsa founded Fairfax in 1985, modeling his management
style after billionaire value investor  Warren Buffett , who buys
the assets of out-of-favor securities.  Watsa, a long-time acquaintance of Lazaridis, said in April
he’s confident RIM will turn around its fortunes in the coming
years.  “All you can do as a member of the board is to let them
focus on the long-term, don’t second guess the management,” he
said at the time. “In Thorsten Heins, they’ve got terrific
management.”  RIM gained 1.3 percent to $6.86 at the close in New York.
The Waterloo, Ontario-based company’s stock has dropped 53
percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  