-- Sally Ride, First U.S. Woman in Space, Dies of Cancer at 61
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-07-24T15:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/sally-ride-first-american-woman-to-reach-space-dies-at-61.html
Sally Ride, the  NASA  flight engineer
who became the first American woman in space when the shuttle
Challenger roared into orbit in June 1983, has died. She was 61.  She died yesterday after a 17-month battle with pancreatic
cancer, according to a statement from San Diego-based Sally Ride
Science, a provider of educational programs that she founded in
2001. The U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration
confirmed her death on its  website .  “Sally’s life showed us that there are no limits to what
we can achieve, and I have no doubt that her legacy will endure
for years to come,” President  Barack Obama  said in a statement.
NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said, “Sally Ride broke
barriers with grace and professionalism -- and literally changed
the face of America’s space program.”  The successful six-day mission officially designated  STS-7 
in 1983 gave Ride a place in U.S. history, one she accepted with
mixed feelings. “It’s too bad this is such a big deal,” she
said at one pre-flight NASA news conference. “It’s too bad our
society isn’t further along.”  In an interview with NASA to mark the 25th anniversary of
her flight in 2008, Ride recalled the “huge expectations” she
felt for her pioneering flight. She  said  Christopher Kraft,
NASA’s longtime flight director, called her into his office to
“make sure I knew what I was getting into before I went on the
crew. I was so dazzled to be on the crew and go into space I
remembered very little of what he said.”  ‘Private Person’  “Sally was a very private person who found herself a very
public persona,” former astronaut Steve Hawley, who was married
to Ride from 1982 to 1987, said in a  statement . “It was a role
in which she was never fully comfortable.”  Ride returned to space in October 1984 as mission
specialist on  STS 41-G , also aboard the Challenger. That eight-
day mission included a second female astronaut, Kathryn D. Sullivan, who became the first woman to perform a spacewalk.  The  Soviet Union  put the first women in space, cosmonauts
Valentina Tereshkova in 1963 and Svetlana Savitskaya in 1982.
According to NASA, a total of  55 women  worldwide have flown in
space.  Ride was scheduled for a third mission that was canceled
following the 1986 disintegration of the Challenger 73 seconds
after liftoff. She served on the presidential commission that
investigated the accident.  After leaving NASA, she joined the faculty of the
University of California-San Diego as a professor of physics and
director of the California Space Institute.  Stanford Degrees  Sally Kristen Ride was born on May 26, 1951, in  Los
Angeles , the daughter of Joyce and Dale B. Ride. At  Stanford
University , she earned undergraduate degrees in physics and
English in 1973, a master’s degree in science in 1975 and a
Ph.D. in physics in 1978, according to the NASA  biography .  NASA selected her for astronaut training in January 1978,
part of the first class to include women. She and five other
women joined 29 men in that class.  An advocate for better science and math education, Ride
wrote five science books for children.  In addition to her mother, Ride’s survivors include Tam
O’Shaughnessy, her partner of 27 years, and a sister, Karen
Scott, a Presbyterian minister, who is known as Bear, according
to the  New York  Times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  