-- Santander Joins Six Others in Interest-Rate Swap Sales Probe
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-07-23T12:23:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/santander-joins-allied-irish-to-review-interest-rate-swap-sales.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s U.K. arm and
six other lenders will review potential rule violations in sales
of interest rate hedging products to small businesses as part of
the  Financial Services Authority ’s plan to compensate customers.  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , Bank of Ireland Plc, and units of
the  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  joined Co-Operative Bank Plc
and Northern Bank Ltd. in the review, which could lead to
compensation to buyers of improperly sold interest-rate
derivatives. The banks make up around 10 percent of the U.K.
market for the products, the FSA said in an e-mailed statement.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
Britain’s two other biggest banks said last month they would
compensate small and medium-sized businesses for sales of swaps
that lost money as interest rates plunged. While the FSA found
“serious failings” by the banks dating back to 2001, it
stopped short of fining the firms.  “It is appropriate and fair that any business which
purchased these products is offered the opportunity to discuss
them with us,” Steve Pateman, head of U.K. banking at
Santander, said in an e-mailed statement.  Santander said it would review sales of  interest-rate 
products to around 200 customers who bought them from December
2001 onwards.  Banks offered derivatives to small businesses and
individual customers on concern that they might not be able to
service loans if floating rates rose.  ‘Major Exercise’  “This is a major exercise but one that we hope will ensure
even more businesses benefit from having their individual
situation reviewed,” Clive Adamson, director of supervision at
the U.K. financial watchdog’s market conduct unit, said in the
statement.  Bank of Ireland “will cooperate fully as always with the
FSA to bring the review to a swift and satisfactory
conclusion,” Anne Mathews, a spokeswoman for the Dublin-based
lender, said in an e-mail.  Niamh Hennessy, a spokeswoman for  Allied Irish , said the
lender agreed to take part in the review. She declined to
comment further.  Products included caps, where customers paid a premium to
keep borrowing costs below a pre-defined maximum, swaps, where
customers locked in a fixed rate, and more complex combinations
of these products, among them collars, which kept payments
within a fixed range.  When interest rates fell, the market value of many swap and
collar products plunged, leaving customers with less money. The
banks sold 28,000 of the products since 2001, the FSA said last
month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 