-- Santos Urges Colombian Central Bank to Consider Rate Cut
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-07-23T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/santos-urges-colombian-central-bank-to-consider-rate-cut.html
Colombia ’s central bank should
consider cutting interest rates after recent data show the
economy losing speed, President  Juan Manuel Santos  said.  Policy makers should also step up their purchases of
dollars, Santos said in a July 20 speech to mark Colombian
 Independence Day .  “I have asked the central bank to study a cut in  interest
rates , and evaluate a more aggressive purchase of dollars to
increase our international reserves,” Santos said. “This will
also help us confront the phenomenon of revaluation.”  The government is worried by signs that the economy is
slowing, even though growth remains faster than the world
average, Santos said.  Industrial output  fell for a third
straight month in May on a year-on-year basis, the national
statistics agency said last week.  Fourteen economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast that the
central bank will hold its benchmark  interest rate  at 5.25
percent at its July 27 policy meeting, while six analysts
forecast a quarter-point cut.  Colombia raised its benchmark rate nine times in the year
through February, bucking a global trend for lower borrowing
costs. The bank last cut rates in April 2010.  The Colombian peso has appreciated 8.9 percent this year,
the biggest gain of 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Colombia’s central bank has often ignored suggestions from
Santos and his predecessor, former President  Alvaro Uribe . Last
month, policy makers kept their daily dollar purchases unchanged
at $20 million, even after Santos met with bank chief Jose Dario Uribe and other board members and urged them to increase the
amount.  In January, the central bank raised its benchmark interest
rate a quarter point, after Santos had said such a move wouldn’t
be “appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  