-- Saying Goodbye to Libor Won’t Be Easy, but It’s Necessary
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-23T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/saying-goodbye-to-libor-won-t-be-easy-but-it-s-necessary.html
Amid the investigations into
manipulation of Libor, policy makers are coming around to the
idea that the world needs a new benchmark to price hundreds of
trillions of dollars in loans, securities and derivatives. The
challenge will be getting banks, investors and borrowers to
agree on what that benchmark should be.  Even when it was created some three decades ago, the London
interbank offered rate was far from ideal. Its aim was good: to
provide an objective measure of banks’ borrowing costs, so that
the parties in financial contracts would see that they were
getting a fair deal. Lenders, for example, could peg payments to
an  interest rate  that more or less tracked how much they paid to
borrow money, while borrowers could consult the measure to be
sure they weren’t being overcharged.  We’re now abundantly aware of Libor’s flaws. Instead of
gleaning information from actual transactions, Libor relies on
banks to report their borrowing costs honestly, something they
spectacularly failed to do. The market it supposedly measures --
interest rates on short-term loans among banks, unsecured by
collateral -- tends to disappear in times of crisis, making the
rates no more than estimates. The group that polices the system,
the  British Bankers Association , is in large part run by the
same banks it purports to oversee. (Disclosure: Bloomberg LP is
a competitor of Thomson Reuters Corp., which conducts Libor
surveys on behalf of the BBA.)  Observable Benchmark  Given the drawbacks, it’s hard to see how Libor can be
fixed. What the market needs is a benchmark based on a large
volume of actual, observable loans, one that is highly resistant
to manipulation.  It’s encouraging that the world’s central bankers, who will
meet in September in  Basel ,  Switzerland , to discuss reforming
the system, are beginning to zero in on some possible
replacements -- at least for U.S. dollar Libor, which is the
most widely used of the Libor benchmarks. In Congress last week,
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  mentioned two leading
candidates: overnight index swaps and the general collateral
repo index.  Yes, they’re both mouthfuls. Let’s take them one at a time.  Overnight index swaps are contracts based on the so-called
federal funds effective rate, which is the interest U.S. banks
charge one another on overnight loans. The underlying loans are
observable: The Fed records them and publishes a  weighted
average interest rate  every day. Problem is, banks tend to pull
out of the market during times of stress, leaving it too small
and too easily skewed to provide a true picture of borrowing
costs. Currently, for example, the market is dominated by
government-backed behemoths such as  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac ,
which are lending at abnormally low rates.  The general collateral repo index looks like a better
option. It tracks the very large market for  repurchase
agreements , known as repos, typically overnight loans made
against good collateral such as U.S. Treasuries. The Depository
Trust & Clearing Corp. publishes  a daily weighted average  of the
actual interest rates paid on these loans. Aside from being
secured by collateral, a large portion of the loans are
processed through a central counterparty that protects the
system against default by any one participant. These features
make the repo market, and especially the part that uses
Treasuries as collateral, relatively resilient in times of
crisis.  Keep in mind that most banks these days tend to package
their loans into securities. They then pledge the bundled loans
as collateral when they borrow in the repo market. Given the way
modern finance works, an index that reflects the cost of secured
lending might make more sense as a benchmark.  Critical Mass  Establishing a new benchmark won’t be easy. For a repo index
to gain widespread acceptance, a market must grow up around it.
And investors and dealers won’t want to hold securities tied to
the index until there is a robust  derivatives market  providing
them opportunities to hedge their holdings. Last week, NYSE
Euronext initiated futures contracts on the repo index, and
banks are signing up to trade  interest-rate swaps . Even so, the
derivatives will have a hard time gaining critical mass until a
lot of securities have been issued. It’s the classic chicken-
and-egg problem.  Here, the U.S. government’s debt load can be an advantage.
The  U.S. Treasury  could (as it has suggested it might) issue
floating-rate notes -- that is, new  government bonds  whose
interest rates would fluctuate with the repo index. As banks’
and investors’ holdings of the notes grew, so would their demand
for derivatives. The notes’ prices and yields would also provide
reference points for the issuance of mortgages, corporate loans
and all kinds of other securities tied to the index.  Until a replacement emerges, regulators will have to do
what they can to keep Libor honest. Prosecuting criminal cases
against traders and bank executives would send a powerful
signal. Requiring banks on the Libor panel to improve their
internal controls and submit to external audits, as the
authorities have done with Barclays Plc, would help, too. The
 New York  Fed  made some other useful suggestions  in 2008. For
example, Libor panel banks currently report borrowing rates for
15 different time periods, at many of which they rarely or never
borrow money. Reducing the number of maturities would better
align the benchmark with reality and make the reporting less of
a guessing game.  Ultimately, the best way to deal with Libor’s flaws is to
move to a better benchmark. Repo looks like a big part of the
answer. With some help from the U.S. Treasury, the market might
agree.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Europe’s wake-up call ;
 Jeffrey Goldberg  on what’s next for the  Arab Spring ; William
Pesek on the  price of economic growth  in  South Korea ;  Ramesh
Ponnuru  on Obama’s  welfare mistake ; A. Gary Shilling on higher
education’s  broken financing model ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin
Wolfers  on  sham economics ; Bill Mallon on  obscure sports  in past
Olympics; Ilian Scarlatov on why  Greece should act like
Bulgaria .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 