-- Schenck Process Said to Near Sale as IK Set to Choose Bid
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-07-23T14:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/schenck-process-said-to-near-sale-as-ik-set-to-choose-bid.html
Schenck Process GmbH , a German maker
of industrial weighing equipment being sold by IK Investment
Partners, may choose a new owner by early August after narrowing
the bidders to three buyout firms, according to people familiar
with the offer.  Bain Capital LLC, Rhone Capital LLC and Pamplona Capital
Management LLP are the remaining bidders, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because talks are private. IK
Investment, a European buyout firm with Nordic roots, may be
seeking between 750 million euros ($908 million) and 850 million
euros, the people said.  The sale has been complicated by competing auctions of
German mid-size manufacturers including Bartec Holding GmbH, as
well as a slowdown in earnings, said the people. Schenck
Process, based in Darmstadt, had annual sales of more than 560
million euros and 3,200 employees, according to its website. It
provides industrial weighing, feeding, screening and automation
equipment for the construction, mining, pharmaceuticals and
transport industries.  Spokesmen at IK, Schenck, Bain, Pamplona and Rhone declined
to comment on the process.  IK Investment, with offices in London and Stockholm, is
also trying to attract interest from companies in  Asia  and one
unidentified strategic buyer may hand in a bid, said two of the
people. Morgan Stanley is running the process, the people said.  Pamplona, a London-based private equity firm started by
former Alfa Bank Chief Executive Officer Alex Knaster, has made
previous investments in Germany, including automotive and truck
suppliers  SAF-Holland SA (SFQ)  and TMD Friction Holdings GmbH. It
later sold TMD to  Nisshinbo Holdings Inc. (3105)   Bain, based in Boston and co-founded by U.S. presidential
candidate  Mitt Romney , has invested in German chemicals
distributor  Brenntag AG. (BNR)  Rhone Capital, based in New York,
agreed in 2011 to buy Evonik Industries AG’s carbon black
business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  