-- Schilling-Bond Refunding Hastened by Lowest Yields: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-07-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/schilling-bond-refunding-hastened-by-lowest-yields-muni-credit.html
The lowest  municipal yields  in a
generation may help Rhode Island cut the cost of repaying $75
million it borrowed to lure former  Boston  Red Sox pitcher  Curt Schilling ’s now-bankrupt video-game company from  Massachusetts .  While a federal  bankruptcy court  prepares for the
liquidation of 38 Studios LLC, state officials are discussing
refinancing the taxable securities to cut  interest rates , now as
high as 7.75 percent, said Rosemary Booth Gallogly, director of
Rhode Island’s revenue department. Rhode Island has the  second-
highest  jobless rate among U.S. states at 10.9 percent and an
 economy  that may slip back into recession.  “We’ll only do this if it ends up costing less money,”
Gallogly, 53, who was retained by Governor Lincoln Chafee, said
in an interview. “I’m not going to say it’s going to be easy.
There’s a lot of controversy surrounding this one.”  Even the worst-rated states and cities are refinancing
debt, putting municipal-bond issuance on a pace for a record
annual increase with $195 billion of long-term, fixed-rate
securities  sold  this year through July 13. That’s 73 percent
more than for the same period in 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. About 64 percent of the sales have been for
refunding, the most since 1993, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  A2 Rating  The 38 Studios debt is rated A2 by Moody’s Investors
Service, its sixth-highest grade. The ranking reflects the
state’s pledge to back the bonds, and not the bankrupt
enterprise, according to a report from Moody’s in May, after the
company missed a loan payment and fired its workforce. The state
is expected to make good on its “moral obligation commitment”
to cover the debt service if the company can’t, Moody’s said.  “As far as bondholders are concerned, it’s a pretty clean
story,” said Triet Nguyen, managing partner at Axios Advisors
LLC, an independent municipal-research company. “The EDC and
the state are on the hook,” he said, referring to the state
Economic Development Corp., which sold the securities.  “There are not a lot of ways to get out of it,” Nguyen
said.  The demise of 38 Studios, which produced the game Kingdoms
of Amalur: Reckoning before collapsing, shows the peril states
and cities take on by borrowing to aid business ventures.
Schilling, 45, promised in 2010 to bring hundreds of jobs to
Providence when he moved his company there from Maynard,
Massachusetts. The bankruptcy left  Rhode Island  on the hook for
$75 million in debt that the company was supposed to repay.  Collapse Fallout  The fallout has been widespread. Schilling, who collected
three World Series championship rings during his 23-year career,
and Chafee, who opposed the 38 Studios deal as an independent
candidate for governor in 2010, engaged in a war of words over
whether the governor contributed to the company’s collapse.  The sudden shutdown and liquidation of the game maker
prompted federal and state probes and led to disarray in the
economic-development agency. Schilling last month said in a
 radio interview  that he put more than $50 million into the
venture and that he had to tell his family the fortune he made
from baseball is gone.  Schilling didn’t respond to an e-mailed request for comment
on the situation forwarded to him by Katie Leighton, his
publicist.  Robert Flanders , a former state  Supreme Court  judge who
oversaw the bankruptcy of  Central Falls , Rhode Island, has
joined calls in the state for Chafee to explore defaulting on
the bonds and forcing investors to take a loss.  Other Needs  “Every dollar that’s paid for these moral-obligation bonds
is a dollar down the rat hole that could have been paid for
education and social services and relief for retirees,”
Flanders said in an interview. “We’ve got to fight for every
dollar in this state.”  Gallogly has been joined by other state officials,
including Treasurer Gina Raimondo, a Democrat, in dismissing a
default, saying it would hurt the state’s credit standing.  38 Studios entered Chapter 7 liquidation last month in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware , listing debts of
$150.7 million. Of that amount, $115.9 million is owed to Rhode
Island, including fees and interest from the financing.  The company listed assets of $21.7 million. Proceeds from
the liquidation, overseen by a court trustee, will be
distributed to creditors.  Bond Yields  Rhode Island’s development agency borrowed the money in
October 2010. Bondholders receive 7.75 percent interest on $42.5
million of the debt maturing in 2020, 6.75 percent for $8.9
million maturing in 2016, and 6 percent for $23.7 million in
2015, according to bond documents. The yield is federally
taxable and exempt from state levies.  The longest-dated debt traded at an average yield of 4.654
percent on May 23, and hasn’t changed hands since, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The state loaned $49.5 million of the proceeds to 38
Studios, deposited $23.4 million into accounts to cover initial
interest payments, and paid underwriting fees of $1.85 million,
according to bond documents. That included almost $563,000 to
 Assured Guaranty Ltd. (AGO)  to back the debt.  The agency will exhaust the money set aside for interest
payments next year, forcing the governor to ask Democrats who
lead the Legislature to set aside money every year for debt
service, Gallogly said.  Legislature’s Role  Rhode Island lawmakers, who voted to approve the bond sale,
are facing their sixth consecutive year of state budget gaps,
according to Moody’s. So instead of seeking money every year for
interest payments, the Chafee administration is considering
asking the Legislature to replace the moral-obligation bonds
with more highly rated appropriation-backed debt, Gallogly said.  Taxable muni bonds are trading at near-record low yields,
with A rated debt maturing in 2021  yielding  3.35 percent, the
lowest since a Bloomberg Fair Value index began in 1994. Still,
the savings Rhode Island could reap from a refinancing might be
limited by provisions in the bond contract that require it to
pay a penalty if it calls the bonds early, Gallogly said.  “We’ve looked at it preliminarily just to see if that’s an
option and probably will pursue it,” she said. “If it were
beneficial we would probably be able to sell that to the General
Assembly.”  Following are pending sales:  REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA plan to sell $900
million of revenue bonds, including $100 million of taxable
debt, as soon as July 26, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Proceeds will help finance student housing and
parking and refinance debt, according to bond documents. Moody’s
rates the bonds Aa2, its third-highest grade. (Added July 23)  MARYLAND, with a top  credit rating , plans to sell about
$728 million of general-obligation debt as soon as next week.
Proceeds will help finance state facilities, public schools,
community colleges and jails, according to bond documents.
(Added July 23)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael McDonald  in Boston at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  