-- Scotland Cuts Wind Subsidy 10% to End Uncertainty
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-07-23T08:49:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/scotland-cuts-wind-subsidy-10-to-end-uncertainty.html
Scotland  said it will cut subsidies
for onshore wind power by 10 percent to end uncertainty about
support for the industry after the U.K. government last week
delayed a decision on funding.  The U.K. Department of Energy and Climate Change last week
delayed a final decision on support for low-carbon energy under
the Renewables Obligation program after a dispute with the
Treasury, which is seeking bigger cuts to land-based wind power.  “This wholly unnecessary uncertainty is jeopardizing
future investment,” Scottish First Minister  Alex Salmond  wrote
in a letter to U.K. Energy and Climate Change Secretary  Ed Davey , according to a statement today. “The renewable industry
requires and deserves a clear statement of intent.”  The U.K. is trying to cut its emissions in half by 2027, an
effort which largely involves decarbonizing the country’s power
sector. While onshore wind is the cheapest renewable technology,
it faces opposition from people in rural areas, and Osborne had
been seeking a 25-percent cut in support for the technology.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne , a Conservative
lawmaker, wrote to Davey this month offering to drop his demands
for bigger cuts to onshore wind power so long as the Liberal
Democrats, Davey’s party and the junior partner in the U.K.’s
coalition government, backs down on inflexible decarbonization
targets, the Financial Times reported today.  Energy Department  A spokesman for the energy department declined to comment
on or confirm Osborne’s letter and said the government is
working to finalize the plans as soon as possible.  From April 2013 the Scottish government will cut the number
of so-called renewable obligation certificates awarded for each
megawatt-hour of power from land-based  wind turbines  to 0.9 from
1, the Scottish government said today in its e-mailed statement.
Full rates for other technologies will be published “shortly,”
Salmond wrote.  “The banding regime allows Scotland to set its own rates,
although the costs are ultimately borne by consumers across the
 United Kingdom ,” the U.K. energy department said in an e-mailed
statement. “This is an important decision affecting billions of
pounds of investment and it is vital that we get the Renewables
Obligation banding regime right.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  