-- Sealy Directors Mismanaged Mattress Firm, Investor Claims
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-23T19:38:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/sealy-directors-mismanaged-mattress-firm-investor-claims.html
Sealy Corp. (ZZ) , the world’s largest
bedding maker, and its directors were sued by a shareholder who
contends they mismanaged the company by allowing 44 percent
stakeholder  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co. (KKR)  undue influence.  The shareholder also questions the propriety of more than
$20 million in payments to Kohlberg Kravis Roberts since 2006
and continuing consulting fees in addition to “false and
misleading statements” about payments, amid millions of dollars
in losses and allegedly adverse publicity.  “Board members have failed to disclose information about
the nature of KKR’s relationship with the company and the
provision of large payments to KKR,” the shareholder, Jay M.
Plourde, said in a complaint filed July 19 in Delaware Chancery
Court in Wilmington.  Plourde is asking a judge to award damages to Trinity,
North Carolina-based Sealy by officials for their alleged
wrongdoing, as well as legal fees and costs of litigation,
according to court papers.  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, a unit of New York-based
international asset management firm KKR & Co., manages assets
including private equity, real estate and energy. Neither is a
party to the lawsuit. Kristi Huller, a spokeswoman for New York-
based KKR, referred calls for comment to Sealy.  Sealy doesn’t comment on pending litigation, Gemma Hart, a
company spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  March Statement  H Partners Management, a 14 percent stakeholder, criticized
Sealy in a March 12 statement, saying management deficiencies
have stifled performance. H Partners said Sealy has lost 90
percent of its common stock value, or $1.3 billion, since its
initial public offering in 2006 through KKR “interference.”  “Sealy’s board is currently comprised of nine directors,
most of whom are both beholden” to the head of KKR’s Capstone
consulting firm and put “the interests of KKR over those of
Sealy,” Plourde said in his complaint.  The complaint includes an H Partners statement that, “Our
goal is to resurrect this 100-year-old iconic American
manufacturer and to create long-term value for all
shareholders.”  Sealy, with about $1.2 billion in sales for fiscal 2011,
fell 3 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $1.60 in  New York  Stock
Exchange composite trading at 3:35 p.m. KKR declined 9 cents to
$13.91.  The case is Plourde v. Rogers, CA7709, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  