-- Senior CEO Rollins Says Boeing, Airbus Demand May Increase Sales
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-07-23T09:26:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/senior-ceo-rollins-says-boeing-airbus-demand-may-increase-sales.html
  Senior Plc (SNR) , a British maker of
airliner parts and car and truck components, is seeking to win
additional business from Airbus and  Boeing Co. (BA)  as they look for
more supplies to increase production.  The growth in output at Airbus and Boeing helped drive
sales at Senior to 377.2 million pounds ($586 million) in the
first six months, up 20 percent from a year earlier, the company
said in a statement today. Senior, based in Rickmansworth, near
London, reported a 22 percent increase in adjusted earnings per
share to 8.57 pence.  “Boeing and Airbus are obviously increasing build rates
and that is putting pressure on the supply chain,” Senior Chief
Executive Officer Mark Rollins said today in a telephone
interview. “That offers opportunity.”  Airbus and Boeing are raising output for single-aisle
airliners and long-range aircraft. In some cases they have been
working closely with small suppliers to ensure they can keep
pace. Senior may increase market share as the aircraft makers
outsource more work they have done in-house, as well as through
opportunities on the Airbus A320neo and Boeing 737 MAX programs,
new versions of the single-aisle aircraft, Rollins said.  Senior’s net debt fell to 74.8 million pounds at the end of
June from 93 million pounds at the end of 2011. “That gives us
some headroom if we wanted to buy some other business,” Rollins
said. While the company is ready to spend as much as 100 million
pounds “we are not going to stretch the balance sheet,” he
said.  Acquisition Targets  Senior has acquisition targets in mind, Rollins said,
without disclosing their names. While it is unlikely, “there is
a chance” a deal could be done this year, he said.  To strengthen its commercial aerospace activities, Senior
acquired Colne, England-based Weston Group last year. The unit’s
financial performance “was ahead of expectations” in the first
half, the company said in its interim management statement.  Growth in coming years should benefit from increased
production for other aircraft programs, such as  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CSeries narrow-body, the Russian Sukhoi Co. SuperJet 100
regional jet, and the Japanese Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp.
regional jet, Rollins said.  Senior’s defense business may see “future weakness”
because of spending cuts in the U.S. and  Europe , but currently
remains “relatively solid,” the company said in the statement.  Senior’s shares fell 3 percent to 179 pence at 10:25 a.m.
in London.  While it is not looking to become focused 100 percent on
any market segment, the company may divest one or two
operations, Rollins said.  Senior’s north American truck business had “significantly
increased revenue” in the first six months, which “more than
offset” weaker passenger-vehicle sales at European clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  