-- Serb Finance-Minister Designate Says Governor Should Resign
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-23T14:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/serb-finance-minister-designate-says-governor-should-resign.html
Serbian Finance Minister-Designate
Mladjan Dinkic said that central bank Governor Dejan Soskic
should resign because of the rise in bad debt at several banks
in which the state has a stake.  Lenders including Agrobanka AD,  Privredna Banka AD (PRBN)  and
 Razvojna Banka Vojvodine (MTBN)  ran up debt by granting loans to
“certain private tycoon companies that were friends of the
ruling political party,” Dinkic, a former central bank chief,
told reporters in Parliament today in Belgrade.  “That disqualifies Soskic as the governor because of the
problems in the financial sector, not in monetary policy,”
Dinkic said. “If I were Soskic, I would resign.”  Dinkic’s comments come amid stepped-up public criticism
over the central bank’s failure to prevent Agrobanka’s collapse
in December, which President  Tomislav Nikolic ’s Progressive
Party said July 19 was “the most-serious financial scandal.”
The bank’s foreign shareholders said on July 16 that the
lender’s closing amounted to “the expropriation of property
worth more than 70 million euros ($84.7 million).”  While lenders in  Serbia  face no solvency risk, the
currency’s weakness and an expanding bad-loan portfolio could
require some banks to boost capital, the central bank said on
July 16, presenting a Financial Stability Report. Results of
stress tests showed that at least seven and a maximum of nine
need to add cash to meet requirements this year.  New Government  Serbia’s new ruling coalition of Progressives of President
Tomislav Nikolic, the Socialists of Prime Minister-Designate
Ivica Dacic and Dinkic’s United Regions of Serbia, has already
signaled it wants to replace governor Soskic. Dacic has said his
Cabinet will consider removing Soskic if he acts in discord with
the government, which will seek to stimulate growth.  Soskic vowed on July 16 not to resign, meaning he could be
removed only through constitutional procedures. Since the fall
of  Slobodan Milosevic  in 2000, two central bank governors have
been dismissed when new governments took office and changed
laws, while one resigned over a disagreement on expansionary
fiscal policies and the lack of necessary public-sector reforms.  The governor is elected to a six-year term after being
nominated by the president and confirmed by Parliament.  He can be replaced if permanently incapacitated for health
reasons, sentenced and jailed for a crime, or if it’s
established that his “unprofessional” performance and
“serious misconduct” keeps the bank from “accomplishing its
primary objective,” according to the central bank law, which
sets  price stability  as the primary goal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  