-- Shelter Afrique Says MD Will Cooperate With Kenyan Assault Probe
-- B y   B r y s o n   H u l l
-- 2012-07-23T09:19:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/shelter-afrique-says-md-will-cooperate-with-kenyan-assault-probe.html
Shelter Afrique, the pan-African
housing finance agency, said its managing director will
“cooperate fully” with Kenyan authorities investigating
allegations he assaulted his finance director.  The organization’s board will meet on July 25 and July 26
to discuss Finance Director Karen Kandie’s accusation that
Managing Director Alassane Ba attacked her, Shelter Afrique
Corporate Affairs Director Ruth Onyancha said in statement e-
mailed from its headquarters in Nairobi,  Kenya ’s capital.  “We also wish to confirm that Alassane Ba has expressed
his personal commitment to cooperate fully with Kenya’s
investigating authorities and the judicial system to ensure that
justice is done,” she said in the statement dated yesterday.
“He is to that effect consulting with his legal counsel.”  Kenya’s Director of Public Prosecutions, Keriako Tobiko,
ordered police to arrest Ba to face the assault charge, the
 Daily Nation  reported on July 21.  Ba, a Mauritanian, and Kandie, a Kenyan, will both be given
a chance to address the board, which will also consider her
appeal for a reassessment of her performance review, according
to the statement.  Diplomatic Immunity  The panel will also “take a position regarding the
diplomatic immunity of its managing director” under the Vienna
Convention that governs diplomatic relations, the  African
Development Bank  treaty and its agreement with Kenya to site its
headquarters in Nairobi, Onyancha said.  Tobiko’s arrest order came after the Ministry of  Foreign
Affairs  said Kenya’s 1983 pact with Shelter Afrique doesn’t
grant employees absolute immunity, the Nation said.  The housing agency’s full board includes representatives
from 44 member nations, the African Development Bank, the Africa
Re-Insurance Corp. and independent directors, Onyancha said in
the statement.  Shelter Afrique was founded in 1982 to fund housing
development on the continent. In August, the agency sold 2.5
billion shillings ($30 million) of three-year bonds and said it
plans to sell 500 million shillings of notes this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryson Hull in Nairobi at 
 bhull5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  