-- Singapore Stocks Beating World as Swings Narrow
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-07-24T05:31:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/singapore-stocks-gains-lure-nikko-asset-schroders.html
Singapore   stocks  have gained 13
percent in 2012 with volatility that is the lowest in Asia,
luring the region’s biggest investors to a rally that trails
only Denmark among developed nations.  The Singapore  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  has risen 15 of the last
19 days while its 30-day implied volatility, a measure of risk
derived from options prices, held below levels in Japan,  Hong
Kong ,  China , South Korea,  India , Taiwan and Australia. Shares in
the gauge yield 3.6 percent in dividends, compared with 3.2
percent for the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) , data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The gauge rose 0.5 percent at 1:30 p.m. today.  Nikko Asset Management Co. and Schroders Plc are finding
bargains even after the Straits Times Index closed at its
highest level of the year last week. Companies trade at 9.9
annual earnings, compared with 21 times for Denmark’s OMX
Copenhagen 20 Index, the best-performing index among developed
countries with a 21 percent gain. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index
trades at 14 times profit, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Singapore equities are very, very cheap,” said Ng Soo Nam, Singapore-based chief investment officer at Nikko Asset
Management, which oversees about $165 billion. “Valuations have
been bashed down so much that the dividend yields are getting
interesting even for Singapore banks, which are traditionally
not dividend yield stocks.”  Banks Pay  DBS Group Holdings Ltd., Southeast Asia’s biggest lender,
offers investors a yield of 3.8 percent. That’s the highest
among the city’s three banks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. (OCBC) , which gets 82 percent
of sales from Singapore and Malaysia, pays 3.2 percent.  Financial companies account for about 45 percent of the
Straits Times Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore Telecommunications Ltd., the heaviest- weighted 
company at 10 percent, yields 4.6 percent. StarHub Ltd., a pay-
TV operator that trades at 19.9 times trailing earnings, pays
the highest dividend relative to share price of any of the
index’s 30 member-companies.  Real estate investment trusts on the Singapore bourse offer
an average dividend yield of 6.9 percent, the highest for the
industry among the Asia’s developed markets, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. CapitaMall Trust, the only REIT on the
Straits Times Index, yields 4.9 percent.  Dividend Focus  “There’s been a much greater focus on dividend investing
and companies that pay good dividends given the low interest
rate environment,” said Lee King Fuei, a Singapore-based  fund
manager  at Schroders Plc, which oversees about $326 billion.
“Singapore has a much larger proportion of companies that fit
that criteria. That’s why the market has done quite well. This
reflects that risk appetite for equities is slowly coming
back.”  The Straits Times Index slumped 17 percent in 2011,
snapping a two-year advance, as China took steps to cool its
 property market  and Europe struggled to resolve its debt crisis.
Negative yields on two-year government debt for Germany,
Switzerland and Denmark and the Bank of Japan’s decision to
scrap a 0.1 percent yield floor underscore the difficulty for
investors seeking returns from relatively safe assets.  The  Singapore dollar  has climbed 3 percent against the U.S.
greenback this year, the second-biggest advance among the
world’s major currencies. An appreciating currency boosts the
allure of dividends.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore, which uses the
 exchange rate  to manage inflation, said in April it would allow
faster gains to damp price pressures. The central bank guides
the local dollar against a basket of currencies within an
undisclosed band, and adjusts the rate of change by altering the
slope, width and center of the band.  Inflation Rises  The  consumer price index  rose 5.3 percent in June from a
year earlier after climbing 5 percent in May, the Department of
Statistics said in a statement today. The median estimate of 16
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 5.1 percent
increase. The central bank forecasts consumer-price gains will
average 3.5 percent to 4.5 percent in 2012.  Dividend yields and companies that provide exposure to the
economies in  Association of Southeast Asian Nations  make the
city’s equities attractive, Dennis Lim, co-Chief Executive
Officer at Templeton Asset Management Ltd. in Singapore, said.  Singapore’s biggest companies from CapitaLand Ltd. to
 Singapore Telecommunications (ST)  offer investors exposure to China
and Southeast Asia, which together with India could outpace the
rest of the world in terms of economic growth over the next two
years, the  International Monetary Fund  said in an April report.  Discounted Asean  Southeast Asia, the heart of the 1997 currency crisis,
produced the best risk-adjusted returns for Asian stocks this
year since global markets started to rebound three years ago, as
investors sought a haven from Europe’s debt turmoil. The  MSCI
Southeast Asia Index (MXSO)  has climbed 11 percent, including
dividends, this year.  “Many of these companies give you exposure to Asean but
trade at a much lower multiple,” Lim, who helps manage $50
billion of emerging-market funds at Templeton in Singapore,
said. “Everyone is excited about India and China and they
forget that Asean as a region has 600 million people. You would
see a lot of growth in Asean going forward.”  Investors can buy exposure to  PT Astra International (ASII) ,
Indonesia’s biggest automotive retailer, at a discount in
Singapore by investing in  Jardine Cycle  & Carriage Ltd., the
biggest shareholder, Lim said. Astra trades at 14.3 times
trailing earnings, compared with Jardine Cycle’s 12.3 times,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Jardine Cycle reports
that 93 percent of revenue comes from Astra.  External Threats  Still, the fact Singapore’s fate is so tied to outside
economies means investing in the city-state’s equities is not
without risk. Citigroup Inc.’s private bank prefers direct
exposure to to domestic-oriented economies such as Indonesia,
Philippines and Malaysia after Singapore’s gross domestic
product unexpectedly shrank in the three months through June.  “As one of Asia’s most export-oriented economies, it is
perhaps no surprise that Singapore’s second quarter GDP growth
number missed expectations,”  John Woods , the Hong Kong-based
chief Asian strategist at Citigroup’s private bank, wrote in a
note to clients dated July 18. “For Singapore, a technical
recession, in which growth in the third quarter is also
negative, is entirely possible.”  Singapore’e economy unexpectedly fell an annualized 1.1
percent in the three months through June from the previous
quarter, when it climbed a revised 9.4 percent, as factory
output contracted. While the city’s export growth accelerated
last month, Europe’s deepening debt crisis threatens to curb
demand for Asia’s goods.  Real Estate  CapitaMalls Asia Ltd. is the best-performing stock on the
benchmark Straits Times Index as the operator of shopping malls
expands its presence in China and Malaysia. The city’s biggest
developers, CapitaLand Ltd. and City Developments Ltd., were
also among the biggest climbers as  home prices  in Southeast
Asia’s largest economy rose to a record in the second quarter
even after the government introduced measures to rein in prices.  “Property has good fundamentals for the long-term,” said
Andrew Gillan, who helps oversee about $72 billion in assets as
senior investment manager at Aberdeen in Singapore. “Singapore
also benefits from the region’s strong economic growth.”
Aberdeen has an overweight rating on Singapore and holds shares
in the city’s banks, real estate companies and offshore rig
builders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  