-- Singh Push to Revive Wal-Mart Entry Plan Hit by Fresh Opposition
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n   a n d   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-07-23T06:03:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/singh-push-to-revive-wal-mart-entry-plan-hit-by-fresh-opposition.html
The ruling party of India’s most
populous state and communist groups advised Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  against reviving plans to allow overseas
companies to open supermarkets, a move already opposed by a key
government ally. Shares of local retailers fell.  Six parties, including the Samajwadi Party that governs
Uttar Pradesh state and the Communist Party of India (Marxist),
said in a letter to Singh that allowing foreign direct
investment in multibrand retail would trigger job losses. In
June, Samajwadi leader Akhilesh Yadav had said the party could
back the policy change as long as the interests of small farmers
were protected.  Pantaloon Retail India Ltd. (PF) , India’s largest listed
retailer, fell as much as 6.5 percent in Mumbai and was trading
4.3 percent down at 10:19 a.m. local time.  Shoppers Stop Ltd. (SHOP) 
fell as much as 4.8 percent, and  Trent Ltd. (TRENT)  declined 2.8 percent
before paring losses to 0.9 percent.  “It’s still wait and watch in terms of whether some of
these reforms can actually go forward, given the Congress is
facing a lot of push back internally,” said  Sonal Varma ,
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Mumbai. “It will obviously
not be smooth sailing on FDI in retail. A lot of political work
has to be done in terms of building consensus even within ruling
coalition’s partners.”  The government is trying to resurrect its plan to overhaul
the retail sector, which would enable companies such as  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  to open supermarket chains. The proposals have been
stalled since December after protests from opposition parties
and Singh’s biggest ally in the governing coalition, the
Trinamool Congress of West Bengal leader  Mamata Banerjee .  ‘Disastrous Impact’  Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  this month said the
government is trying to get the support of state chief ministers
on foreign investment in multi-brand retailing.  “Entry of MNC supermarket and hypermarket chains would
cause severe displacement” of small shopkeepers and traders,
the parties said in the  letter , which was delivered to Singh on
July 21. “The entry of the giant Wal-Mart supermarket chain
would have a disastrous impact.”  The government says the arrival of foreign retailers would
benefit farmers and bring the investment in cold-chain logistics
India needs to lower the 40 percent of fruit and vegetables that
rot before they can be sold.  Singh’s government, which has been battered by 18 months of
corruption allegations and policy paralysis, last week
encountered more turbulence as another coalition partner, the
Nationalist Congress Party, made public a list of grievances
over the way the ruling alliance is run.  Gandhi Role  The letter to Singh comes amid growing speculation of a
government legislative push to boost an economy now growing at
its slowest pace in nine years, a cabinet reshuffle and a more
high profile government and party role for Congress’ leader-in-
waiting Rahul Gandhi.  The Samajwadi Party, headed by Akhilesh’s father Mulayam Singh Yadav, backed the ruling Congress party’s pick for
president at a time when Banerjee’s opposition threatened to
force a climb down by Congress leader  Sonia Gandhi .  The government in November approved plans allowing
companies that sell a single brand such as  Nike Inc. (NKE)  to own 100
percent of their operations, removing a cap previously set at 51
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net ;
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  