-- Slovenia’s Fate Rests With Spain as Bonds Punished
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-07-23T08:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/slovenia-s-fate-rests-with-spain-as-bonds-punished.html
Spain  may hold the key to Slovenia
needing a bailout for its banks, as contagion from the region’s
fourth-largest economy threatens to engulf one of its smallest.  Yields on Slovenia’s nine-year bonds are rising and falling
almost in parallel with Spain’s, and topped 7 percent last week
as investors added to bets that  Europe ’s debt turmoil may lock
both nations out of the market. While borrowing costs in
 Belgium , Austria and France have dropped to records, Slovenia’s
have surged on concern that it will have to channel funds to its
banks as bad loans climb.  “Whether Slovenia has to take a bailout or not is really
out of their control,” said  William Jackson , an economist at
Capital Economics in  London . “Slovenia is a small  economy  and
it is very susceptible to risk aversion.”  Yields on Slovenia’s 4.375 percent bond, maturing in
January 2021 surpassed 6 percent every day in the past month and
closed above 7 percent on seven trading days, approaching levels
that prompted bailouts for  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal . The
benchmark borrowing cost is now about 6.57 percent, after
reaching 7.37 percent on July 9, the most since January.  As Slovenia’s bond yields advance, rates on top-rated euro-
region government securities are declining amid speculation that
global growth is slowing and that Europe’s debt crisis is
deepening. Ten-year French yields dropped to a record 2.03
percent last week. Spain’s five- and 10-year yields climbed to
euro-era records today, while the 10-year yield premium to
German debt reached the highest ever, after El Pais said six
regions may ask the central government for financial assistance.  Yield Premiums  Investors currently charge Slovenia 571 basis points more
than  Germany  to borrow for nine years, compared with a 528
basis-point premium to bunds paid by  Italy  and 143 basis points
for Belgium. Slovenia pays about 84 basis points less than Spain
to borrow for nine years.  “Slovenia should be priced in between Italy and Belgium
somewhere, but they are trading higher because of contagion,”
said Peter de Coensel, who helps oversee 13.2 billion euros
($16.1 billion) at Petercam SA in Brussels. “I think for a buy
and hold investor that believes the euro-region will stay
intact, they might be a good investment. Otherwise they are very
volatile.”  As well as battling market turmoil, Slovenia, which adopted
the euro in 2007, is assessing how to cover the liabilities of
its financial industry. Banks, including Nova Ljubljanska Banka
d.d. and  Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor d.d. , are struggling with a
surge in bad loans as more companies file for bankruptcy.  Funding Needs  Nova Ljubljanska has about 1.5 billion euros of loans that
will probably never be repaid, Finance Minister Janez Sustersic
said on July 12, while bad loans at Slovenian banks advanced to
more than 6 billion euros in April, the government’s economic
institute said July 11.  Capital Economics , founded by former adviser to the U.K.
Treasury  Roger Bootle , estimates the nation may need as much as
5 billion euros in external funding for its banks, compared with
its annual gross domestic product of 35 billion euros  “Slovenia has been on the cusp of a bailout for a long
time,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument
Securities Ltd. in London. “To some extent it hinges on what
happens to the banks, and to some extent on what happens
elsewhere.”  Spending Cuts  Slovenia “isn’t in danger of seeking help,” Finance
Minister Janez Sustersic said last month. The European
Commission, the EU’s executive arm, said July 16 the country
“hasn’t sought financial aid and isn’t expected to do so,”
according to the commission spokesman Simon O’Connor.  The government in Ljubljana, led by Prime Minister  Janez Jansa , has adopted measures, including public-sector wage and
social benefit cuts this year to reduce spending by about 800
million euros to trim the  budget deficit  after it reached 6.4
percent of gross domestic product in 2011.  Slovenia’s export-dependent  economy  is teetering on the
brink of a second recession in three years. The economy grew 0.2
percent in the first quarter from the previous three months,
when it contracted 0.7 percent, according to the statistics
data. GDP is forecast to shrink 1.4 percent this year, the
European Commission estimates while the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development foresees a 2 percent
contraction.  Worth Owning  The nation’s debt will be 55 percent of its gross domestic
product next year, according to European Commission forecasts
published in May. That compares with 81 percent in Spain, 124
percent in Italy and 161 percent in Greece, the forecasts show.  “Slovenia in our opinion does not have the deep structural
problems that some of the peripheral countries do,” said
Bernhard Matthes, a  fund manager  at Bank fuer Kirche und Caritas
eG in Paderborn, Germany, who holds Slovenian  government bonds ,
but declined to say which ones. “The Slovenian risk is
definitely there, but doesn’t justify the price. If we do see a
deterioration, then we’ll reconsider our positions.”  While European leaders said last month that they may let
their rescue fund lend directly to banks and the  European
Central Bank  cut  interest rates  to a record low to stem the
crisis, risks remain, including a possible delay in Germany
approving the rescue fund and a downturn in growth, Monument’s
Ostwald said.  “If things get really tough in the euro-zone, Slovenia
could face a sudden stop of financing and wouldn’t be able to
use all its tools to fix the banks,” said Andraz Grahek, an
independent financial adviser and a former fund manager at KD
Funds LLC in Ljubljana. “The contagion effect is already here
and we are stuck with it for a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at   magilbert@bloomberg.net . 