-- Spain, Italy Ban Short Selling to Slow Market Turmoil
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-23T16:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/spain-italy-ban-short-selling-of-stocks-to-slow-market-turmoil.html
Spain  and  Italy  reinstated a short-
sale ban on stocks as bank shares plunged to record lows, bond
yields rose and the euro traded below its lifetime average
against the dollar on concern the debt crisis is growing.  Spain’s CNMV market regulator banned the creation of
negative bets on equities through shares, derivatives and over-
the-counter instruments for three months. Italy’s Consob
prohibited the practice on 29 banking and insurance stocks for
one week, citing “grave tensions” in financial markets.  Today’s move echoes decisions in August last year by the
two nations plus  France  and Belgium after  European banks  hit
their lowest levels since the credit crisis of 2008 and 2009.
Most bank stocks extended their decline once the bans were
lifted.  “I don’t think it is particularly smart but it is to be
expected,” said Owen Callan, senior dealer at  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE) 
in Dublin, in a phone interview. “Last time around it didn’t
really have any lasting impact. This is trying to avert hedge-
fund speculation, but the selloff is not about speculation. This
is not hedge funds trying to bring down the market.”  Short-sellers sell borrowed shares with plans to buy them
back later at a lower price, a practice some politicians and
investors blame for roiling markets.  Regional Aid  Government bond yields in the U.S., U.K. and  Germany  fell
to records, while Spain’s  IBEX 35 Index (IBEX)  had its worst two-
session intraday decline since 2008 as concern grew countries in
 Europe  may need further assistance to cope with their debt
levels. The prospect of more Spanish regional governments
following Valencia last week in asking for aid sent the cost of
insuring the nation’s debt to a record.  Both countries’ prohibitions exclude market-making
activities.  The European Securities and Markets Authority “is aware”
of the bans, David Cliffe, an ESMA spokesman, said in a
telephone interview today. ESMA was set up last year to
harmonize the implementation of market rules across the European
Union.  France’s markets regulator, the AMF, said in an e-mail
today it has no plans at this stage to introduce a ban because
the current market situation “does not seem to justify such a
decision.” Veerle De Schryver, a spokeswoman at  Belgium ’s
markets regulator in Brussels, also said the agency has no plans
to introduce new limitations on short-selling.  Spanish Sales  The IBEX 35 Index dropped 1.1 percent to 6,177.40 at the
5:30 p.m. close in  Madrid , after earlier falling as much as 5.5
percent. Italy’s FTSE MIB lost 2.8 percent to 12,706.36, paring
an earlier decline of 5.2 percent. The  Euro Stoxx Banks Index (SX7E) 
declined as much as 6.4 percent to a record low today, before
rebounding in afternoon trading.  Last year’s ban in Spain, put in place on Aug. 11,
coincided with a 10 percent gain for the financial stocks it
covered. The IBEX rose 6 percent in the period. The stocks have
fallen 40 percent since the ban was lifted on Feb. 15 this year,
according to a basket compiled by Bloomberg.  Germany’s  DAX Index (DAX)  extended declines today after the bans
were announced, as investors sold European indexes outside of
Spain and Italy as a hedge against losses in the region.
September  futures  on the gauge lost 3.1 percent to 6,428 at 6:50
p.m. in  Frankfurt , after falling about 2 percent before the
bans.  The country still has a ban on naked short selling of
stocks and sovereign debt adopted in May 2010. Naked short
selling occurs when traders sell securities without owning them
in the first place.  “The unintended consequence is that people trying to hedge
risk will probably try to short other markets,” said Danske
Bank’s Callan. “The short risk is misallocated into other
markets, so it can drag even the good markets down. You go to
things like the DAX, which is liquid and is unlikely to have any
short sale bans put in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net . 