-- Spanish Debt Risk Soars to Record as Regions Ask for Assistance
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e
-- 2012-07-23T12:37:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/spain-credit-default-swaps-rise-28-5-basis-points-to-record-634.html
The prospect of more Spanish
regional governments following Valencia in asking for aid sent
the cost of insuring the nation’s debt to a record.  Credit-default swaps on  Spain  jumped as much as 31 basis
points to 636, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and were
at 632 at 1:30 p.m. in London. A basis point on a swap
protecting 10 million euros ($12.1 million) of debt from default
for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year.  Spain created an 18 billion-euro bailout mechanism last
week to help cash-strapped regions even as it struggles to
access financial markets, with 10-year bond yields surging as
high as 7.57 percent today, before trading at 7.49. Catalonia
yesterday said it’s considering tapping the fund and El Pais
reported that four other regions may seek assistance.  “With Spain already struggling to fund itself, investors
are right to fret over what an additional 18 billion euros of
funding would do,” said Harpreet Parhar, a strategist at  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  in London.  Swaps on Spain imply a 42.5 percent chance of default
within five years, according to CMA. The contracts pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if a borrower fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Spain’s regions face about 15 billion euros of debt
redemptions in the second half of this year as the nation’s
recession worsens. The euro area’s fourth-largest economy shrank
0.4 percent in the three months through June as the toughest
austerity measures in its democratic history pushed the country
to a third consecutive quarter of contraction, the Bank of Spain
said today.  Borrowing Costs  Surging borrowing costs are also threatening  Italy , where
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said last week that Spanish protests
against austerity are adding to euro concerns. Italy’s 10-year
benchmark bond over similiar-maturity German securities was 5.20
percentage points, the highest since Jan. 10, and credit-default
swaps jumped 21 basis points to a more than one-month high of
547.  Concern that  Greece  is struggling to meet its bailout
commitments ahead of tomorrow’s visit by the troika of
international creditors -- the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund  -- also weighed
on sentiment.  “Sovereign debt restructurings beyond just Greece are
still on the cards,” said Neil Williams, chief economist at
Hermes Fund Management in London. “Every ’cunning plan’ so far
to solve the euro-zone crisis seems to take one step forward,
then two steps back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 amoses5@bloomberg.net :
Esteban Duarte in Madrid at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  