-- Spain’s Travails Must Be a Wake-Up Call for Euro Leaders
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-23T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/spain-s-travails-must-be-a-wake-up-call-for-euro-leaders.html
Europe ’s leaders were hoping their
debt crisis had taken a break for the summer. On Monday,
financial markets announced they were in no mood to relax.  Spanish bond yields surged to new highs, forcing the
European Union to contemplate its fourth and biggest sovereign
bailout, after Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland. On top of this,
fear that Greece might have to leave the euro mounted again,
after reports that it won’t meet the terms of its latest aid
program. Italy and  Spain  announced emergency curbs on short-
selling of securities. Investors hammered stocks on both sides
of the Atlantic -- a reminder, if anyone needed it, of the
global ramifications of this crisis.  It’s worth recalling that the problem is far more tractable
than the EU’s leaders have made it seem. There’s no mystery
about what needs to be done. The  European Central Bank  must act
as lender of last resort to the euro area’s distressed sovereign
borrowers. The ECB, with its power to print money, has the
technical means to take on this role. It lacks the political and
(some insist) legal authority to act. European leaders’
unwillingness to resolve these issues keeps bringing the global
economy back to the edge of the abyss, and this week it looks
again as if it might fall.  Europe’s governments thought they had contained the Spanish
crisis after the recent EU summit. They came together on the
terms of a bailout for Spanish banks. More important, they
accepted in principle that future help for banks would go
directly to distressed institutions rather than being supplied
via governments, a change that avoids adding to sovereign debt
burdens. In addition, access to existing rescue funds -- the
European Financial Stability Facility and its permanent
successor, the European Stability Mechanism -- would be granted
more flexibly, they said.  Compared with what had gone before, this was progress, and
financial markets liked it. Following a long EU tradition,
however, confusion over what had really been agreed on soon
undid much of the benefit. Markets refocused on a crucial fact:
The funds available to the EFSF and ESM remain far too small to
cover the foreseeable financing needs of governments such as
Spain and  Italy  should markets get spooked and refuse to lend
them money.  Now, that worst-case scenario has re-emerged. The catalyst
is Greece. Over the weekend,  Germany ’s economy minister, Philipp Roesler, said he doubted that Greece would keep the fiscal
promises it made in return for its bailout. If help for Greece
is cut off, a disorderly exit from the euro becomes much more
likely. For the rest of Europe and the world, that’s alarming
less in its own right than because of the risk of contagion.  Spain would probably be the first to suffer, and as things
stand there’s nothing to stop the situation from unraveling.
With anxiety about Greece rising again, it was reported that
Spain’s regional governments were seeking bailouts from  Madrid ,
threatening to add to the central government’s debt burden. The
Spanish economy is contracting, the latest figures showed last
week. At the same time, Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  sparked
protests when he said he would press on with further fiscal
tightening, which is likely to slow growth even further.  On Monday, Spain’s 10-year bond yields rose for the first
time above 7.5 percent. Rates sustained at this level are
unaffordable and, in effect, make the Spanish government
insolvent. Disturbingly, yields rose sharply at shorter
maturities, too, and the cost of insuring against a Spanish
default set a record -- both signs that confidence is
evaporating.  Spain is the fourth biggest economy in the euro area. If it
has to be bailed out, the EFSF and ESM will be overwhelmed. Then
comes Italy, whose 10-year bond yield just climbed to a six-
month high, remaining well above 6 percent. That’s no less
crippling than Spain’s cost of borrowing, because Italy’s debt
burden is far greater.  If Europe’s governments continue to stand aside, they will
sink not only  Greece , Italy and Spain, but the wider European
and global economies as well. Europe’s leaders must either
greatly expand the ESM and start to use it more proactively, or
urge and empower the ECB to buy or somehow guarantee distressed
sovereigns’ debt. One way or another, bond yields have to be
capped at a supportable level.  Yes, providing such emergency backing involves pooling the
resources of euro-area governments, and raises big questions
about EU members’ fiscal and financial obligations to one
another. Over time, such risk-sharing would require new rules
for the operation of the euro currency system, including an
effective mechanism to keep sovereign debts in check. Those
issues can be sorted out later. Right now, the order of the day
is effective  crisis management .  Up to now, financial markets have shown extraordinary
patience. Time is running out for the policy of having no
policy.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  replace Libor ;  Jeffrey
Goldberg  on what’s next for the  Arab Spring ; William Pesek on
the  price of economic growth  in  South Korea ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on
Obama’s  welfare mistake ; A. Gary Shilling on higher education’s
 broken financing model ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on
 sham economics ; Bill Mallon on  obscure sports  in past Olympics;
Ilian Scarlatov on why  Greece should act like Bulgaria .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 