-- Spain to Pay About 1.5% on Bank Bailout Loans, Guindos Says
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-07-23T12:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/spain-to-pay-about-1-5-on-european-bailout-loans-guindos-says.html
Spain  will pay about 1.5 percent on
the European bailout loans for its banks, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said, as he again rejected the need for a sovereign
rescue in the face of surging government borrowing costs.  The rate will be variable, made up of a  base rate  plus
commissions, and it “would be safe to say it will be around 1.5
percent,” de Guindos told lawmakers in Parliament in Madrid
today. Spain’s FROB bank fund will earn more than 8 percent on
contingent convertible securities issued by lenders, he said.  Spain asked for European funds to shore up its banks as the
government’s access to debt markets narrowed and the cost of
servicing its debts soared. The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds
rose to a euro-era record of 7.57 percent today, pushing the gap
between German and Spanish securities to 6.43 percentage points.  De Guindos said market tensions were due to “doubts about
the euro project” that can’t be solved by one government alone.
Asked if he continued to rule out Spain seeking a sovereign
bailout, he said: “of course.” While the bailout agreement
refers to other tools available to the European rescue facility,
Spain has only asked for help with its banks, he said.  The government can’t act to limit speculative moves in bond
yields as that’s up to “other institutions” in a monetary
union, De Guindos said.  An  asset management company , or bad bank, will be created
to buy “problematic assets of aided banks,” according to the
July 20 memorandum of understanding that will govern the 100
billion-euro ($121 billion) rescue plan. The bad bank, due to be
operational by November, will buy mainly real-estate development
loans and foreclosed assets, as well as “other assets if and
when there are signs of strong deterioration.”  The bad bank can be financed by bonds that are eligible as
collateral for funding from the  European Central Bank , de
Guindos said. Spanish banks selling assets to the bad bank may
get cash or a stake in the vehicle or state-backed bonds issued
by the bad bank as payment, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  