-- Spanish Recession Probably Deepened in Second Quarter: Economy
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-07-23T11:04:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/spanish-recession-deepens-with-0-4-gdp-drop-bank-of-spain-says.html
Spain’s recession deepened in the
three months through June as the toughest budget cuts in the
country’s democratic history pushed the economy into a third
consecutive quarter of contraction, the Bank of Spain said.  The euro area’s fourth-largest economy  shrank  0.4 percent
from the first quarter, when gross domestic product fell 0.3
percent, the central bank said in an estimate in its monthly
bulletin released in  Madrid  today. Domestic demand “fell more
sharply than in the prior quarter,” while exports showed a
“moderate recovery,” it said.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  last week announced his fourth
round of tax increases and spending cuts since Dec. 30 as he
struggles to convince investors that the nation won’t need a
second bailout. The planned budget cuts through 2014 now amount
to more than 10 percent of annual GDP. Spain’s 10-year note
yields surged above 7.5 percent today, breaching a level that
forced Ireland,  Portugal  and  Greece  to seek external aid.  “Confidence suffered further following the latest Spanish
news over the past couple of days,” said Christian Melzer, an
economist at Dekabank in  Frankfurt . “We don’t see the breakup
of the euro, but whether the euro region will still be the same
in terms of members over the next two years is unclear. We don’t
expect  Spain  to leave; the latest austerity measures are
definitely a positive step for the nation.”  Benchmark Bond  The yield on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond surged 26 basis
points to 7.57 percent today. The spread with similar German
maturities widened to 6.42 percentage points.  The euro dropped for a fourth straight day against the  U.S.
dollar , trading at $1.2119 at 12:39 p.m. in Frankfurt and
falling below its lifetime average against the dollar. The
European currency has declined 3.9 percent over the past two
months, reflecting investor concern about the worsening turmoil.  European leaders failed to stem the euro’s decline with the
approval of a 100 billion-euro ($122 billion) aid package for
Spain last week. With Spain’s regions confronting about 15
billion euros of debt redemptions in the second half of this
year, Catalonia, Spain’s most indebted region, followed Valencia
in saying it will examine conditions of a central government aid
mechanism.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti , whose country also is
burdened with surging borrowing costs, said last week that
unrest in Spain, where protesters opposed the government’s new
austerity package, added to euro concerns. In Greece, officials
have been struggling to stand by obligations tied to 240 billion
euros of rescue funding over the past two years.  Government Debt  Euro-area government debt increased to 88.2 percent of GDP
in the first quarter from 87.2 percent in the previous three
months, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said today. That’s the highest since the euro was introduced in
1999. At 132.4 percent of GDP, Greece had the highest debt
burden, with Spain’s debt increasing to 72.1 percent from 68.5
percent. Italy’s debt was at 123.3 percent.  Spain’s economy probably contracted 1 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, today’s report showed. Domestic
demand declined 1.2 percent from the previous three months, when
it fell 0.5 percent, the Bank of Spain said. As job losses
continued, households ate into their savings and low disposable
income reduced their ability to pay down debt, it said.  The decline in tax receipts pointed to the risk the
government may miss its budget goals even as a 65-billion euro
austerity package announced earlier this month should help it
approach the new budget targets, the Bank of Spain said.  Austerity Package  Rajoy’s fourth austerity package in seven months will raise
the sales levy to 21 percent from 18 percent; scrap a tax rebate
for home buyers; scale back  unemployment benefits  and study
pension cuts; and eliminate the year-end bonus for public
workers. The budget measures, covering the next two-and-a-half
years, are about double those previously announced.  The Bank of Spain said today that the reduction in labor
costs isn’t enough to restore competitiveness even as net
exports contributed more to the economy in the second quarter
than in the previous three months.  “Given that most of the measures will take place at the
end of the year, it shows that the worst is still to come,”
said  Ricardo Santos , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London .  Spain’s economy may struggle to emerge from a slump as the
euro area is edging toward a recession. The 17-nation bloc’s
services and manufacturing industries probably continued to
shrink in July, a Bloomberg News survey shows ahead of
tomorrow’s release. In  Germany ,  Europe ’s largest economy,
investor confidence dropped for a third month in July.  Japan, China  The  International Monetary Fund  said earlier this month
that the euro-area economy may shrink 0.3 percent this year
before expanding 0.7 percent in 2013. That compares with the
 European Central Bank ’s June forecasts of a contraction of about
0.1 percent this year.  Elsewhere in the world, economies are also cooling.  China ’s
economic outlook was cut by  Japan , its biggest Asian trading
partner, as the Shanghai Composite Index fell to its lowest
level in three years on concern about faltering domestic demand
and export growth.  “The slowdown in the global economy is becoming more
widespread,” the Cabinet Office said in a monthly report in
 Tokyo  today. Japan’s government said the expansion in China is
“slowing a bit,” lowering its evaluation for a third month.  The European Commission is scheduled to publish an initial
estimate for euro-area  consumer confidence  in July at 4 p.m. in
Brussels today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  