-- STMicro Sees Third-Quarter Sales Trailing Estimates
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-07-24T15:41:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/stmicro-sees-third-quarter-sales-trailing-estimates.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s
largest chipmaker, forecast third-quarter revenue will grow by
about 2.5 percent from the previous period, indicating sales may
miss analysts’ estimates amid weaker demand.  Sales for the three months ending Sept. 29 will increase in
the range of 2.5 percent, plus or minus 3 percentage points, the
company said yesterday. At the midpoint of the forecast, revenue
would be $2.2 billion, missing the average analyst estimate of
$2.31 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Second-
quarter sales rose 6.5 percent from the first quarter.  “The global macroeconomic environment is softening,”
Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti  said in a conference call
today. “We had weaker bookings in the last part of the second
quarter,” the CEO said, adding that such trend has continued at
the beginning of July.  STMicroelectronics, which also said it plans to cut capital
expenditure by 25 percent this year, has been affected by the
performance of  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , one of the company’s biggest
 customers . The performance in the past two years of its “former
largest customer” has cut sales at STMicroelectronics by about
$1 billion a year, Bozotti said. Last week, Nokia reported a
fifth consecutive quarter of plunging revenue, while sales of
the Espoo, Finland-based company’s flagship Lumia smartphone
beat estimates.  Shares Fall  The stock declined 3.7 percent to 3.76 euros in Paris
trading, giving the company a market value of 3.43 billion euros
($4.14 billion).  “The guidance is below expectations due to a weakening of
the orders trend in June, which has certainly been affected by
the general economic slowdown,” said Saverio Papagno, an
analyst at AZ Fund Management in Luxembourg. “The trend
observed by STM is consistent with those reported by other
companies in the sector.”  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest maker of analog chips,
forecast yesterday third-quarter sales and profit that may miss
some analysts’ estimates as an economic slowdown in Europe
crimps demand for electronics.  Infineon Technologies AG (IFX)  said
last month that global economic uncertainties led to a softer-
than-expected development in the company’s operating business in
the quarter through the end of June.  Intel Forecast  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest chipmaker, last week
scaled back its annual sales forecast as personal-computer
demand fails to rebound among consumers in the U.S. and Europe.
Revenue at  Santa Clara , California-based Intel will rise 3
percent to 5 percent in 2012, it said on July 17. That was lower
than an earlier projection for a gain at a percentage in the
high single digits.  The sovereign-debt crisis in Europe “has a material impact
on our top line as one-third of our customers are in Europe,”
Bozotti said on the call. “But it also has a positive effect on
our cost base, which will significantly improve as 50 percent of
our expenses are in euros.”  Based in Geneva, STMicroelectronics is continuing to
benefit from products including micro-controllers and micro-
electromechanical systems, known as MEMS, which have become
ubiquitous in smartphones and tablets such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
iPhones and iPads, providing motion-sensing for turning, tilting
and tapping devices.  Net Loss  STMicroelectronics reported a second-quarter net loss of
$75 million compared with net income of $420 million a year
earlier. Net  sales  declined 16 percent to $2.15 billion in the
three months through June 30. Analysts had estimated a loss of
$63.5 million on sales of $2.16 billion, according to Bloomberg
data.  The gross margin, the percentage of revenue left after
subtracting manufacturing costs, rose to 34.3 in the second
quarter from 29.6 in the previous period. STMicroelectronics
forecast the third-quarter  gross margin  will be 35.3 percent,
plus or minus 1.5 percentage points.  STMicroelectronics said it plans to cut its 2012 capital
expenditure by about 25 percent to $500 million to $600 million.  The chipmaker has also been affected by losses at ST-
Ericsson, its chip joint venture with  Ericsson AB (ERICB) , which hasn’t
turned profitable since being formed in 2009.  ST-Ericsson  said
July 17 that its second-quarter net loss widened to $318 million
from $221 million a year earlier. Sales in the period rose 19
percent to $344 million from the previous quarter in what CEO
Didier Lamouche called “a quarter of progress across the
board.”  ST-Ericsson projected sales to be “approximately flat” in
the current quarter from the previous three months as the
economy weighs against the “very substantial revenue growth”
of the second quarter.  ST-Ericsson announced in April a plan to eliminate 1,700
jobs and on July 1 completed the transfer of its application
processor development team to STMicroelectronics as part of a
plan to trim costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  