-- Suspects Plead Not Guilty to Medicaid Drug-Resale Scam
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-23T22:21:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/suspects-plead-not-guilty-to-medicaid-drug-resale-scam.html
Twenty-five people pleaded not
guilty in  Manhattan  federal court to taking part in a scam
involving the resale of hundreds of millions of dollars in
government-subsidized  prescription drugs .  The defendants arraigned today were targeted by an
investigation spanning at least 10 states and leading to charges
against at least 48 people. U.S. District Judge Denise L. Cote
in Manhattan set a trial for Sept. 16, 2013, saying not all the
defendants will be tried at once. Eighteen of those arraigned
today were released on bond.  An indictment unsealed July 17 charged 42 people with
obtaining free or low-cost drugs to treat HIV, schizophrenia and
asthma through Medicaid, or buying them from Medicaid
beneficiaries, and re-selling them. Six more people were charged
in a separate criminal complaint. Medicaid is the federal-state
program to help cover the health-care costs of people with low
incomes.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Jason A. Masimore said today the
U.S. obtained evidence to back its charges from wiretaps,
telephone and bank records, and cooperating witnesses.  The suspects peeled the individual pharmacy labels off the
drug containers, sometimes using lighter fluid to dissolve the
adhesive, the U.S. alleged. They would then put counterfeit
labels on the bottles, according to the indictment.  Relabeled Drugs  Once the drugs were relabeled, the defendants could sell
them to wholesalers or pharmacies, who in turn resold them to
consumers, the government said. In many cases, the second-hand
pills had already expired, according to the indictment.  To reap maximum profits, the scheme targeted the most
expensive drugs, including HIV medications such as Atripla,
which costs $1,635 a bottle, and Trizivir, which costs $1,347 a
bottle.  Most of the defendants today were released under pre-
existing bond agreements, usually for about $50,000. Some were
also required to supply two co-signers and accept restrictions
on their travel. Seven remained in custody, either because they
can’t meet bond requirements or because the government has
opposed their release.  The case is U.S. v. Viera, 11-CR-1072, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  