-- U.K. Gilt Yields Fall to Record on Euro Concern; Pound Weakens
-- B y   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-07-23T15:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/u-k-gilt-yields-drop-to-record-as-euro-concern-spurs-safety-bid.html
U.K. government bonds  rose, with
two-, five- and 10-year yields falling to records, as concern
the euro-area crisis is deepening pushed investors toward
perceived safer assets.  Ten-year yields  dropped the most in a month as  Spain ’s bond
slumped after the El Pais newspaper reported that six of the
country’s regions may ask the central government for financial
assistance. The difference in yield between inflation-linked
U.K. securities and conventional bonds narrowed before the Debt
Management Office sells index-linked gilts through banks this
week. The pound weakened versus the euro and the dollar.  “There’s a flight-to-safety bid today coming from declines
in Spanish and Italian bonds, and gilts are benefiting,” said
 Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities
Ltd. in  London . Longer-maturity index-linked bonds are
“underperforming a little as there is some space building to
accommodate the upcoming U.K. syndicated sale.”  The yield on the 10-year gilt declined two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 1.47 percent at 4:21 p.m. in London
after falling to a record 1.407 percent. The yield slid as much
as eight basis points, the most since June 21. The 4 percent
bond due in March 2022 gained 0.155, or 1.55 pounds per 1,000-
pound ($1,551) face amount, to 122.635.  The  two-year  yield dropped as low as 0.054 percent, and the
 five-year  yield reached 0.416 percent, also records.  Gilts have returned 4 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, as investors sought the securities
as a refuge from  Europe ’s debt crisis. German bunds gained 4.6
percent, and  U.S. Treasuries  advanced 2.9 percent.  Spain Concern  Spain’s 10-year  bond yields  climbed as much as 30 basis
points to a euro-era record 7.57 percent, and similar-maturity
Italian rates reached 6.43 percent, the highest since January.  Catalonia, Castilla-La-Mancha, Murcia, the  Canary Islands ,
the Balearic Islands are among six Spanish regions that have
admitted they may ask for aid from the central government after
Valencia sought a bailout on Friday, El Pais reported.  The difference between yields on 10-year U.K. index-linked
securities and similar-maturity gilts, a measure of inflation
expectations known as the  break-even  rate, shrank four basis
points to 2.34 percentage points.  Pound Declines  The pound dropped for the first time in four days against
the euro after earlier climbing to the strongest level since
October 2008.  “We have probably reached a short-term base around this
area for the euro versus sterling,” said Adrian Schmidt, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Lloyds TSB Bank Plc in London, in
a an interview with  Guy Johnson  and Francine Lacqua on Bloomberg
Television’s “City Central”. “I don’t see any particular
reason from an economic perspective to be long of sterling.”  The U.K. currency declined 0.3 percent to 78.07 pence per
euro after earlier rising to 77.55 pence. Sterling weakened 0.7
percent to $1.5512.  The  Office for National Statistics  will confirm the U.K.
economy remains stuck in recession when it releases its first
estimate of gross domestic product for the second quarter on
July 25, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  The pound has gained 4.3 percent in the past year, the
third-best performer after the dollar and yen among the 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The euro weakened 8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neal Armstrong at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  