-- U.K. Preparing to Announce Renewable Subsidy Cuts
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-07-23T16:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/u-k-preparing-to-announce-renewable-subsidy-cuts.html
The U.K. is nearing an agreement on
cuts for renewable energy subsidies and may announce a decision
as early as this week, dashing concerns a rift between the
Treasury and Energy Department will hold up investment.  The Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is
sympathetic to the Energy Department’s suggestion that subsidies
for onshore wind farms should be cut 10 percent and preparing
for an announcement later in the week, said an official at the
Treasury, following government policy in declining to be named.  The comment indicates Osborne and Energy Secretary  Ed Davey 
have patched up a disagreement over the scale of cuts that
delayed a decision on support levels for wind and biofuel
projects, prompting criticism from the nation’s main business
and renewable energy lobby groups.  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman Steve Field told
reporters in London today that the announcement needn’t be made
in Parliament, which is currently not sitting because of summer
recess.  Osborne said he would back Davey’s proposal to cut
subsidies for onshore wind about 10 percent, less than the
Treasury had wanted, in exchange for a guarantee that gas will
remain at the heart of U.K. energy policy, the Financial Times
reported earlier today.  The government’s legislation, now in a draft form, is due
to be introduced in the House of Commons later this year as part
of a program to lure 200 billion pounds ($320 billion) by 2020
for upgrading electric power plants and distribution grids.  Osborne, a Conservative, was pushing to limit subsidies for
solar and wind and spur natural gas as an alternative and
worried that subsidies for clean energy are driving up
electricity costs for manufacturers.  Davey, a Liberal Democrat, says gutting subsidies for
renewable would hurt jobs and economic growth. Davey’s
department was unable to announce subsidy levels for wind
projects last week because a debate with the Treasury over the
plan is continuing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  