-- U.S. Gulf Gasoline Strengthens After Valero’s Meraux Plant Shut
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-07-23T18:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/u-s-gulf-gasoline-strengthens-after-valero-s-meraux-plant-shut.html
U.S.  Gulf Coast  gasoline
strengthened after Valero Energy Corp.’s 135,000-barrel-a-day
Meraux refinery in Louisiana was shut following a fire in a
crude unit yesterday.  All components at the plant will remain down while repairs
are made to the crude unit and related utilities,  Bill Day , a
San Antonio-based spokesman for Valero, said in an e-mail. An
assessment is under way to determine if downstream elements can
be restarted while the work is being done, Day said.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast narrowed 0.37 cent to 19.38 cents a gallon versus
futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 1:15 p.m.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery fell
4.07 cents to $2.7048 a gallon.  New York  gasoline slipped for a seventh day as a tanker
arrived in the region with supplies. Another is scheduled.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane fuel in New York
Harbor widened 0.5 cent to 11 cents a gallon. The grade was at
parity with futures on July 12. Prompt delivery fell 7 cents to
$2.768 a gallon versus futures.  Fuyo Kaiun Co Ltd.’s Maersk Maya reached the hub July 22,
according to AISLive Ltd. ship-tracking data compiled by
Bloomberg. Mitsui OSK Lines Ltd.’s Emerald Express is expected
to arrive July 27, the data show. The tanker, chartered by
Valero Energy Inc., last docked in  Milford Haven , U.K.  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  shut a fluid catalytic cracker in the Point
Breeze section of its Philadelphia refinery today, IIR Energy
said in a report. The unit is expected to be repaired and
restarted within two weeks, according to the information
provider.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in New York at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  