-- U.S. Banks Spawn 10,000 Units Worldwide to Cut Taxes
-- B y   Y a l m a n   O n a r a n
-- 2012-07-23T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/u-s-banks-spawn-10-000-units-worldwide-to-cut-taxes.html
The biggest U.S. banks created more
than 10,000 subsidiaries in the past 22 years as they expanded,
using legal structures to pay lower taxes and escape tighter
regulation, according to a  Federal Reserve study .  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. lender, has the most
units at 3,391, followed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., Morgan
Stanley and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  with more than 2,000 each, the
study by the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  shows.  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , the third-largest lender, has 1,645.  Critics including  Thomas Hoenig , a Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. board member, say the biggest firms are too
complicated to manage. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act asked the FDIC
and Fed to make sure the largest banks, if they get into
trouble, can be wound down without collapsing the rest of the
financial system. U.S. Senator  Sherrod Brown  has proposed
legislation to force their breakup.  “When regulators are left to curtail the risk of trillion-
dollar megabanks with hundreds of affiliates, we know that too
big to fail is also too big to manage” said Brown, an Ohio
Democrat and member of the Senate Banking Committee.  The 1999 repeal of the Depression-era Glass-Steagall Act
was the main catalyst for the biggest banks getting bigger, the
Fed study concluded. The assets of the largest lenders have
since tripled to  $15 trillion . Hoenig has called for reinstating
Glass-Steagall, which separated investment and commercial
banking, while Brown’s proposal would limit asset size.  Legal Status  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Goldman Sachs, whose main business is
investment banking, have thousands more subsidiaries than some
of their bigger peers, who focus more on commercial and consumer
lending. The two New York-based firms changed their legal status
to bank holding companies during the height of the financial
crisis in 2008 to access unrestricted Fed funds.  Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley each have about 3,000
legal units, more than double the 1,366 entities controlled by
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , according to the Fed study. San Francisco-
based Wells Fargo has roughly 40 percent more assets than
Goldman Sachs and 75 percent more than Morgan Stanley.  MetLife Inc. (MET) , an insurer that also operates as a bank
holding company, has 163 subsidiaries. Birmingham, Alabama-based
 Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , the 10th-largest U.S. lender by
deposits, has 40.  The subsidiaries in the Fed study include the banks’
overseas units. For Morgan Stanley,  Goldman Sachs (GS)  and New York-
based Citigroup, about half the legal entities are based outside
the U.S. At JPMorgan and Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America, the ratio drops to below a quarter.  Living Wills  Earlier this month, the largest lenders submitted
blueprints to regulators explaining how they could be
dismembered without bringing down the rest of the financial
system. Dodd-Frank authorized the FDIC to use these so-called
living wills to determine whether the biggest banks need
internal restructuring -- such as ring-fencing some units with
separate capital pools backing them -- to ensure that their
dissolution would be orderly in case they fail.  The law also gives the agency power to request that a bank
divest some businesses when the lender’s weak financial
situation poses a systemic threat. It’s harder for regulators to
use such powers to scale back the largest financial firms than
specific laws that would disassemble them, such as Glass-
Steagall, Hoenig said.  “In good times, it’s very hard to break them up,” he said
in an interview last month. “Anything but very bad times, it’s
very hard to justify the breakup because it requires the
presumption that they will bring the system down. That’s a very
significant judgment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yalman Onaran in New York at 
 yonaran@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter at @Yalman_BN  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 