-- Tuberculosis Drug Combo Cut Treatment Time in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-23T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/tuberculosis-drug-combo-cut-treatment-time-in-study.html
An experimental combination of
medicines killed both the regular and drug-resistant strains of
tuberculosis, suggesting it may be a simpler and cheaper way to
combat the deadly disease, a study found.  In a test comparing five treatment regimens, a three-drug
combination called PaMZ was the most effective, eliminating more
than 99 percent of the bacteria within two weeks, researchers
from Stellenbosch University in  Cape Town  wrote in The Lancet
medical  journal  today.  Because the combination doesn’t contain isoniazid or
rifampicin, the two main medicines used against TB, it also may
provide a much-needed weapon against strains that fail to
succumb to those drugs and are spreading, the researchers wrote.
The new combination may shorten the time to treat TB by more
than two years, while being 90 percent cheaper than current
treatments for multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis, they said.  “We may have a major solution here for drug-sensitive TB
and drug-resistant TB,” Mario Raviglione, director of the  World
Health Organization ’s Stop TB Partnership, said on a call with
reporters last week before the results were published. “This
will change policies worldwide.”  The 85-person mid-stage study was funded by  The Global
Alliance for TB Drug Development , a New York-based non-profit
organization supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation.
The group is recruiting patients for a follow-up study in  South
Africa , Tanzania and  Brazil .  Deadly Bacteria  About 1.4 million people died from TB in 2010, making the
airborne bacteria the second-deadliest infectious disease
globally after AIDS, according to the  World Health Organization .
TB is the biggest killer of people with HIV, and the drugs used
to treat the bacterial disease can interfere with AIDS
medicines.  There were about 650,000 cases of multi-drug-resistant
tuberculosis worldwide in 2010, and the number is increasing,
according to the Geneva-based WHO. In Belarus, about one in
three new cases of TB is multi-drug resistant, Raviglione said.  “We have been losing our tools to combat this epidemic,”
Andreas Diacon, the university researcher who led the trial. The
results mean doctors may have a new treatment against both
regular and drug-resistant TB within five years, instead of 10
to 20 years if each medicine in the mix was tested separately,
Diacon said on the call.  A study published in the New England Journal of Medicine
last month showed an antibiotic developed by Otsuka Holdings Co.
called delamanid helped fight tuberculosis strains not stopped
by other medications, suggesting the Tokyo-based drugmaker may
be close to having the first approved TB treatment in 40 years.  While that result is promising, the bacteria are more
likely to develop resistance to a single treatment than to
combinations, according to the TB Alliance.  PaMZ consists of PA-824, a new drug; moxifloxacin, an
approved antibiotic being developed for use as a first-line TB
treatment; and an existing TB drug called pyrazinamide.  The results of the study are scheduled to be presented at
the  International AIDS Conference  in  Washington  today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  