-- Hungary’s IMF Talks Create July Rate-Cut Room: Officials
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-07-24T14:57:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/hungary-s-imf-talks-create-july-rate-cut-room-officials.html
Hungary  held off on cutting the
European Union’s highest  benchmark rate , opting for caution amid
concern about inflation and possible delays in loan talks with
the  International Monetary Fund  and the European Union.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  kept the two-week deposit rate at 7
percent today for a seventh month, matching the forecast of 20
economists in a Bloomberg survey. One expected a cut to 6.75
percent. The Monetary Council backed keeping rates on hold with
a “substantial majority’ after considering a quarter-point cut
in the benchmark rate, Governor Andras Simor said at a press
conference in Budapest today.  The country’s risk perception and inflation outlook
‘‘warrant a cautious policy stance,” rate-setters said in a
 statement . A rate cut would require a “persistent” fall in the
 risk premium  and an improvement in the inflation outlook, the
policy makers said.  Central bankers have signaled divisions on when to start
easing borrowing costs. While some have said the start of aid
talks offers a chance to cut the main rate as early as this
month to help growth as the economy sinks into its second
recession in four years, others have warned that easing too
early may erode the bank’s credibility.  ‘Unchanged’ Policy  “We believe that monetary policy will be kept unchanged
this month and that the outlook for monetary policy in Hungary
strongly hinges on the ongoing negotiations between the
Hungarian government and the EU and the IMF,”  Benoit Anne , the
London-based head of emerging-market strategy at  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) , said in an e-mail before the rate decision.
“Negotiations with the EU and the IMF will be very arduous.”  Investors pared their bets for rate cuts with forward-rate
agreements used to bet on three-month interest rates in two
months rising to 6.98 percent from 6.92 percent. The contracts
traded 21 basis points below the three-month Budapest Interbank
Offered Rate, indicating investors are no longer pricing in a
full quarter-point drop in borrowing costs in September.  The forint, which gained 9 percent against the euro this
year as investors speculated that Hungary will obtain an IMF
bailout, trimmed its losses after today’s decision. The currency
was down 0.2 percent at 288.15 per euro at 4:06 p.m. in
Budapest.  “The start of bailout talks as such had no impact on
today’s rate decision as we don’t know the final outcome of
these negotiations,” Simor said, adding that the country needed
an IMF deal “as soon as possible” to lower debt financing
costs.  Inflation may slow to the central bank’s medium-term target
of 3 percent in 2014, Simor said. That indicates a deterioration
in the inflation outlook as Simor said last month the gauge may
near the target by end-2013.  Growth Forecasts  Officials from the IMF and the EU disagreed with the
government’s growth forecasts at the start of the talks, chief
negotiator Mihaly Varga told Figyelo July 19. Suspending talks
because of differences over economic forecasts is one possible
outcome of the week-long visit from the international delegation
that ends July 25, he said.  IMF and EU officials are focusing on untangling policies
that contributed to an economic contraction in the first quarter
and the downgrade of Hungary’s credit to junk. That includes the
flat personal-income tax, which cut revenue without boosting
consumption and prompted the Cabinet to plug budget holes
through extraordinary industry taxes that reduced investments
and pushed the economy toward a recession.  Hungary will probably miss its goal of obtaining a loan by
the end of October as Premier  Viktor Orban  gears up for a re-
election bid in 2014, according to a July 17 Bloomberg News
survey of economists. Four of 12 economists expected an accord
in October, six by the end of the year and two in 2013.  Aid Negotiations  Bailout talks are “extremely unlikely to bring any easy or
fast results,”  Zoltan Torok , a Budapest-based economist at
Raiffeisen Bank Inetrnational AG, said in an e-mailed note.  The government wants a credit line of about 15 billion
euros ($18.2 billion) to protect the economy from euro-area
contagion and to lower financing costs. The yield on the 10-year
government bond, which was 8.07 percent a month ago, rose for a
third session to 7.41 percent today.  Talks with the IMF “give hope that things will improve and
we want to put in place an interest-rate environment that gives
incentives ahead of the start of a growth cycle,” central
banker Ferenc Gerhardt said on July 11 in a joint interview with
his colleague Gyorgy Kocziszky. “Naturally, there can be a rate
cut this month, the possibility is there.”  Deepening Rift  The comments showed a rift between Simor and his two
deputies on one side and at least three of the four non-
executive rate-setters, who were appointed last year with
ruling-party backing, on the other. The four united against the
bank’s leadership in January when they outvoted a proposal to
raise the benchmark rate by half-point to 7.5 percent to keep
borrowing costs unchanged.  Since February, Gerhardt and Kocziszky, along with fellow
non-executive rate-setter Andrea Bartfai-Mager, voted with Simor
and his deputies to maintain  interest rates  against Janos Cinkotai, the fourth non-executive member, who backed rate cuts.  ‘Barely Credible’  A rate cut today would have seemed “barely credible” for
the central bank, which only last month cited the need for
“persistently and substantially” falling country risk and an
improvement to the inflation outlook for rate cuts,  OTP Bank
Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest lender, said in a July 20 report.  Inflation, the fastest in the EU, accelerated to 5.6
percent in June from 5.3 percent in May, drifting further from
the 3 percent target of policy makers. The central bank last
month raised its forecast for the 2013 average inflation rate to
3.5 percent from 3 percent.  The cost of insuring against default on Hungary’s debt for
five years using credit-default swaps rose to 506.6 basis points
today, the highest in two weeks. The gauge was at 531 basis
points on June 25.  The  European Central Bank  this month cut its main interest
rates by 25 basis points, taking the benchmark to a record-low
0.75 percent and the deposit rate to zero. The Czechs cut their
main two-week repurchase rate by a quarter-point to a record-low
0.5 percent on June 28. Polish policy makers, who surprised the
market with a quarter-point increase in May, kept the benchmark
rate at 4.75 percent on July 4.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  