-- Municipal Bonds, UPS, JPMorgan, Student Loans: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-23T11:46:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/municipal-bonds-ups-jpmorgan-student-loans-compliance.html
A former  Bank of America Corp. 
executive was indicted for allegedly participating in what
prosecutors said was a “far-reaching conspiracy” to defraud
municipal bond investments through bid rigging.  Phillip D. Murphy, former head of Bank of America’s
municipal derivatives desk, was charged with conspiracy to
defraud the U.S., wire fraud and conspiracy to make false
entries in bank records, according to the indictment filed July
19 in federal court in Charlotte, North Carolina.  Murphy “allegedly participated in a complex fraud scheme
and conspiracies to manipulate what was supposed to be a
competitive process,” Scott D. Hammond, a deputy assistant
attorney general in the Justice Department’s Antitrust Division,
said in an e-mailed statement. “The division recently convicted
at trial several individuals in this investigation, which is
ongoing.”  So far, 13 individuals from banks including Bank of
America,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  have pleaded guilty in
the Justice Department’s investigation. Bank of America,
JPMorgan, UBS,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and General Electric Co. have
paid more than $700 million in restitution and penalties.  Bank of America, which self-reported the illegal activity,
has been cooperating for more than four years with Justice
Department prosecutors who say that bankers paid kickbacks to
CDR Financial Products to rig bids on investment contracts sold
to local governments. Municipalities bought the contracts with
money raised through bond sales, which allowed them to earn a
return until the funds were needed for schools, roads, and other
public works.  Susan Necheles, Murphy’s lawyer, said her client would
plead not guilty.  “The government has been investigating this for, I
believe, seven years,” Necheles said. “I think it’s indicative
of the lack of evidence against him that it took such a long
time for them to bring any charges.”  Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Charlotte-based Bank of
America, declined to comment on the charges.  The case is U.S. v. Murphy, 12-cr-00235, U.S. District
Court, Western District of North Carolina (Charlotte).  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  UPS Faces Extended EU Antitrust Investigation Over TNT Bid  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) , the world’s biggest package-
delivery company, faces an in-depth European Union antitrust
review over its bid for  TNT Express NV. (TNTE)   The deal may reduce the number of so-called integrated
express delivery services from four to three across Europe, the
European Commission  said  in an e-mailed statement. It extended
the deadline to rule on the deal until Nov. 28.  “The proposed acquisition could in particular reduce
competition for the provision of the fastest express delivery
services, to the detriment of direct customers and ultimately of
European consumers,” EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin
Almunia  said in the statement.  UPS is seeking to expand in Europe with the biggest deal in
its 105-year history. It will vault to equal footing there with
 Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL, the market-share leader. The tie-up with
money-losing TNT will immediately add to earnings on an adjusted
basis once the deal is done, the company said in March.  Atlanta-based UPS said earlier this month it expects the
acquisition to close in the fourth quarter because EU regulators
needed more time to examine the impact of the deal. It plans to
extend its 5.16 billion euros ($6.3 billion) cash offer for TNT
beyond Aug. 31.  “We have to wait and see what’s going to happen,” said
Anton van der Lande, a Brussels-based UPS spokesman. “We retain
dialogue with the commission and remain confident that we will
receive clearance.”  Regulators said there are potential competition concerns
for small parcel delivery services, in particular international
express services, in several European countries where the
companies would have very high combined market shares.  “During the next two weeks, UPS and TNT Express will
continue to have a dialogue with the commission,” said Ernst
Moeksis, a Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT spokesman.  He said both companies “remain confident that we will
receive clearance for the proposed acquisition within the fourth
quarter.”  Duke Board Lost Confidence in New CEO After Nuclear Delays  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) ’s board lost confidence in  Bill Johnson 
as its next chief executive officer after he missed deadlines
and failed to provide adequate information about a troubled
nuclear reactor, the lead director said.  Johnson, the CEO of Progress Energy Inc. before its
acquisition by Duke, made the board wait nine weeks after it
requested a meeting with the Crystal River nuclear plant’s
insurer, Ann Maynard Gray testified to the North Carolina
Utilities Commission on Friday. That was a “tipping point,”
she said at the hearing in Raleigh. She never spoke to Johnson
about her concerns on the delay, which followed “many failed
deadlines” for the reactor.  The North Carolina Utilities Commission on Friday held its
third day of hearings on why Duke’s board replaced Johnson hours
after the $17.8 billion merger closed on July 2.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  SEC Is Requesting Comment on JPMorgan’s Proposed ETF for Copper  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is requesting
comments on JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s proposed exchange-traded fund
in copper.  The SEC is seeking comments within 30 days after
publication in the Federal Register, according to a  notice  on
its website on July 19. It is seeking information on the copper
market, factors affecting stockpiles and whether the planned
product will affect the supply of copper. JPMorgan spokesman
Patrick Burton declined to comment.  Funds backed by copper would stockpile the metal and leave
less available for industrial users, including manufacturers and
builders, Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat and chairman
of the Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, said in a
letter dated July 16 to the SEC. He said a proposed rule change
to list and trade the firm’s JPM XF Physical Copper Trust should
be denied.  ETFs trade like stocks, giving investors access to
commodities such as copper without taking physical delivery.
NYSE Arca Inc., the electronic platform of NYSE Euronext, filed
with the SEC to list and trade JPM XF Physical Copper Trust,
according to an April 2 document.  JPMorgan, BlackRock Inc. and ETF Securities Ltd. have said
they planned to start exchange-traded funds for industrial
metals. ETF Securities started the first exchange-traded
products backed by copper, nickel and tin in London in December
2010.  FDIC Methods for Estimating Losses to Fund ‘Deficient,’ GAO Says  The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. is correcting
deficiencies in how it estimates certain losses to the fund that
protects depositors when banks fail, according to the Government
Accountability Office.  The GAO found “deficiencies in controls” over loss-
estimation methods at the agency, it said in a report released
July 20. The FDIC needs to better document how it estimates its
share of losses under agreements with firms buying the assets of
failed banks and needs to verify data in its loss models, the
GAO recommended.  The FDIC accepted the GAO’s recommendations. In a response
letter signed by FDIC Chief Financial Officer Steven O. App, the
agency pledged it would fix each of the shortcomings this year.  The FDIC dismantles failed U.S. banks and uses its Deposit
Insurance Fund to make sure customers don’t lose money when
banks collapse. When selling off the banks’ assets, the FDIC
makes agreements with the buyers to share a portion of any loss
connected with the assets. The GAO reviewed that process in an
April report that cited a “significant deficiency,” and the
report released July 20 made further recommendations.  In the Courts  JPMorgan Ordered to Identify Witness in Blavatnik Lawsuit  JPMorgan Chase & Co. was ordered to identify the person
with the most knowledge of possible regulatory probes of its
J.P. Morgan Investment Management and Chase units related to the
labeling of residential real estate-backed securities as part of
a lawsuit by billionaire Len Blavatnik, according to a court
filing.  Blavatnik, 55, sued New York-based JPMorgan, the biggest
U.S. bank by assets, in 2009, claiming it put twice as much
money into risky mortgages as his investment guidelines allowed
while the bank was unloading such securities from its books.
Blavatnik says the bank lost $98 million of his funds.  New York state Supreme Court Justice Melvin L Schweitzer on
July 19 ordered JPMorgan to identify the person or provide a
sworn affidavit that there is no such investigation after a
“thorough and appropriate inquiry” within 30 days.  Blavatnik’s lawyers had served JPMorgan with a notice to
name witnesses on a variety of topics, including one related to
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and regulatory probes of
the units, under an agreement to identify witnesses for the
purpose of taking depositions in the case, according to
Schweitzer’s order.  JPMorgan objected to the request and refused to identify
the person, saying Blavatnik’s lawyers hadn’t shown that any
such investigation exists or is likely to exist, that it would
be “overly burdensome” to determine so, and that any such
probe would be “irrelevant,” according to Schweitzer’s ruling.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for JPMorgan Chase,
didn’t immediately respond to a telephone message and an e-mail
seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is CMMF LLC v. J.P. Morgan Investment Management
Inc., 601924-09, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  Meat Industry Loses Challenge to Renewable Fuel Standard  The  National Chicken Council  and two other meat-industry
groups lost a court challenge to the EPA’s national renewable-
fuel standard that they said will increase feed prices in the
U.S as more corn is used to produce ethanol.  A three-judge panel of the U.S. Appeals Court in Washington
on Friday rejected the group’s lawsuit accusing the
Environmental Protection Agency of improperly exempting some
ethanol producers from requirements that their fuels have fewer
greenhouse gas emissions than petroleum fuels. The judges found
the groups lacked the authority to bring the case.  “The petitioners fail to show a ’substantial probability’
that qualifying ethanol plants would reduce their ethanol
production,” if the rule were vacated by the court, U.S.
Circuit Judge  Janice Rogers Brown  wrote in the opinion.  Brown said the court’s decision didn’t foreclose a later
challenge to the rules, noting in the ruling that a different
lawsuit “could allow us to address the merits of EPA’s
reading.”  The groups, which include the  National Turkey Federation 
and the  National Meat Association , claimed EPA didn’t have the
authority to exempt certain ethanol producers from the fuel
standards. They argued they had the right to sue because the
exemption will lead to an increase in the amount of corn being
diverted to produce ethanol, thus leading to an increase in
prices for animal feed.  “Although we are disappointed with the result reached by
the court in this case, we are heartened by the court’s
concluding point that the merits of this questionable regulation
remain open to challenge,” Tom Super, a spokesman for the
National Chicken Council, said in an e-mail.  The case is National Chicken Council v. Environmental
Protection Agency, 10-1107, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia (Washington).  Sulfur Dioxide Emissions Limits Upheld by U.S. Appeals Court  U.S. limits for sulfur-dioxide emissions from power plants,
factories and industrial sources were upheld by a federal
appeals court, which rejected a lawsuit brought by North Dakota
and Texas.  A three judge panel of the U.S. Appeals Court in Washington
said on Friday that the  Environmental Protection Agency  didn’t
act “arbitrarily” in setting the 2010 rule that restricts
sulfur-dioxide levels in the air to 75 parts per billion over a
one-hour period.  “EPA cites evidence that current levels of SO2 in the
ambient air, even when the air quality meets the current SO2”
standards, “still cause respiratory effects in some areas,”
U.S. Circuit Judge David Sentelle wrote in the opinion.  The regulation revokes standards for the pollutant adopted
in 1971 that included limits of 140 parts per billion measured
over 24 hours. North Dakota and Texas were among five states
that sued over the rule.  The EPA cited research that shows short-term exposure to
sulfur pollution poses a greater health threat than past rules
took into account, including risks to children, the elderly and
people with asthma. Power plants account for almost 70 percent
of sulfur dioxide in the air, according to the EPA.  On July 13, a different appeals court panel in Washington
upheld EPA’s standards for nitrogen dioxide.  The case is National Environmental Development
Association’s Clean Air Project v. Environmental Protection
Agency, 10-1252, U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia (Washington).  UISA Finance Appeals $146 Million Merrill Lynch Award  UISA Finance and Usinas Itamarati SA appealed a
$146 million federal court judgment won in April by  Bank of
America Corp. ’s Merrill Lynch unit.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan assessed the damages
in April in a breach-of-contract suit against UISA Finance and
Usinas Itamarati involving a derivatives transaction in 2008.
Sullivan conducted a five-day trial without a jury in June 2011.
UISA Finance and Usinas Itamarati filed the appeal on July 20 in
federal court in Manhattan.  UISA Finance is the financial arm of Usinas Itamarati, a
Brazil-based manufacturer of sugar and ethanol. UISA and Usinas
are owned by Companhia Itamarati de Investimentos.  Merrill Lynch sued in 2009 seeking $146 million in damages.
UISA borrowed $125 million from Merrill in 2007, according to
court filings. After the loan, UISA made an agreement with the
bank for an interest-rate swap in order to reduce its interest
payments.  When the financial crisis deepened in late 2008, UISA was
unable to provide acceptable collateral to Merrill and the swap
was terminated, according to the judgment. At that time UISA and
Itamarati, the guarantor of the agreement, owed
$146 million.  The case is Merrill Lynch Capital Services v. UISA Finance,
09-02324, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Interviews, Speeches and Reports  Impossible for Traders at 5 Banks to Rig Euribor Rates, EBF Says  Traders at five banks would have found it impossible to
successfully manipulate the euro interbank lending rate known as
Euribor, said the head of the European Banking Federation.  “It’s impossible for those five banks to really have an
impact on the daily Euribor index,” Guido Ravoet, the EBF’s
chief executive officer, told Bloomberg Television in an
interview on Friday. “You need at least more than 15 banks
really aligning their quotes to have any effect on the
Euribor.”  Confidence in the Euribor and London interbank offered
rate, or Libor, benchmarks for trillion of dollars’ worth of
financial products worldwide, has been dented by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s
admission that it submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond , who
resigned as London-based Barclays’s CEO after the bank was fined
290 million pounds ($455 million), told British lawmakers this
month that other banks also lowballed Libor submissions.  Ravoet said in a separate interview that he had no direct
knowledge of whether any traders had attempted to rig Euribor
and was referring to press articles that cited the involvement
of traders at five banks.  He said he is confident that Euribor rates weren’t
successfully manipulated because of the difficulty of
coordinating rates between the 44 banks on the panel.  Barclays’s submitters received at least 58 requests for how
they should report the Euribor rate from September 2005 to May
2009, 20 of them from traders at other banks, the U.K. Financial
Services Authority said last month. Short-term interest-rate
contracts valued at 241 trillion euros ($295 trillion) are based
on the three-month Euribor futures contract, making it the
world’s fourth-largest interest-rate futures contract by volume,
the FSA said.  European Union antitrust regulators in October raided banks
that offer financial derivatives linked to the Euribor rates,
saying they were investigating possible collusion. The European
Commission is also separately reviewing the governance of
interbank lending rates, which are based on banks’ own estimates
of what it would cost to lend or borrow every day.  U.S. Treasury Says Lack of Data Threatens Financial System  Regulators face “significant gaps” in understanding the
financial system, and the lack of adequate data threatens
stability, the U.S.  Treasury Department’s  research arm said.  The  Office of Financial Research , in its inaugural report
to Congress released by the Treasury on Friday, said the gaps
remain in analytical work by  regulators  because “none of them
individually has authority to look across the entire financial
system.”  The office, created by the Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul
law, helps the Financial Stability Oversight Council in trying
to prevent another crisis. The council, which includes Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke , analyzes potential threats to U.S. financial
stability, including the European debt crisis.  “Gaps in analysis, data, and data standards represent
threats to financial stability, and helping to fill those gaps”
is part of the research office’s mandate, according to the
report.  Manipulation of the London interbank offered rate
“resulting from an opaque and closed process that allows a
small number of firms to have significant influence -- poses
significant risks to market integrity and investor trust, and
will require continuing regulatory focus,” the OFR said.  The research office also said better data are needed for
regulators to adequately analyze the repurchase-agreement
market.  “Understanding the repo market requires collection of
transactions-level data about the repo market -- information
that is presently unavailable to regulators,” the office said.  The research unit said it is working with U.S. regulators
to get transaction, position and pricing information on credit-
default swaps contracts.  CFPB Says Students Victimized by ‘Subprime-Style’ Lending  Students grew indebted and went into default at the hands
of a “subprime-style” private loan market that contracted amid
the 2008 financial crisis, a U.S. government  report  issued on
Friday concluded.  “Our findings reveal that students were yet another group
of consumers that were hurt by the boom and bust,”  Richard
Cordray , director of the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
said in an e-mailed statement. “Too many student loan borrowers
are struggling to pay off private student loans that they did
not understand and cannot afford.”  Education Secretary  Arne Duncan , whose department co-wrote
the study, urged students to make federal loans their “first
option” to pay for college.  “Subprime-style lending went to college and now students
are paying the price,” Duncan said in the statement. “We still
have some work to do to ensure that students who take out
private student loans have the same kinds of protections offered
by federal loans.”  Private loans can have higher  interest rates  and lack the
same protections as federal loans, including fixed rates,
deferments and income-based repayment programs. They represent
about 15 percent of the $1 trillion educational debt load.  The CFPB was created by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act to protect
them consumer from abuses related to financial products
including student loans, mortgages and credit cards. The act
required it and the Education Department to report on the
private loan industry one year after the CFPB officially started
work on July 21, 2011.  Cordray recommended that Congress require schools to
certify that private loans being offered do not exceed the
borrower’s need and that it reconsider a 2005 law that made it
harder to discharge student debt in bankruptcy. He also called
for better publicly available data on private loans.  In a conference call with reporters, Cordray declined to
specify what the CFPB might do with its authority under the
Dodd-Frank law to regulate private loan terms.  Duncan made similar recommendations in the report. He also
suggested Congress require schools to determine whether students
exhaust their eligibility for federal loans, which often have
lower interest rates, before resorting to private lenders.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 