-- Visteon’s Halla Buyout Blocked by S. Korea Pension Fund
-- B y   R o s e   K i m ,   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-07-23T20:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/visteon-s-halla-buyout-blocked-by-s-korea-pension-fund.html
Visteon Corp. (VC) ’s attempt to buy the
remaining 30 percent of  Halla Climate Control Corp. (018880)  is being
blocked by  South Korea ’s National Pension Service, the country’s
biggest institutional investor.  The pension service, which owns 8.1 percent of Halla,
rejected Visteon’s offer after reviewing Halla’s future value
and growth potential, the pension fund said in a statement in
Seoul today. Visteon needs approval from shareholders
representing 95 percent of Halla’s stock for the offer, which
closes tomorrow.  The move is a blow to Visteon and fueled speculation the
company may sweeten its bid. Visteon, which exited bankruptcy in
2010, has been seeking to buy out Halla and sell less profitable
units to focus on its operations in  Asia . Visteon’s market
capitalization, $1.6 billion, is now lower than its 70 percent
stake in Halla, which is valued at $1.61 billion.  “Visteon will probably make another offer,” said Shin Chung Kwan, an analyst at KB Investment & Securities Co.
“Visteon will have to offer a better price, but they won’t give
up.”  Jim Fisher , a Visteon spokesman, said the company is
reviewing the pension service’s announcement and will make its
own statement, reporting tender offer results, after it expires
tomorrow.  The company has been reducing lower-margin revenue in
interiors and lighting as it increases its focus on Asia. In
combination with Halla, Visteon said it’s the world’s second-
largest supplier of climate-control systems.  Shares Falling  Visteon offered 28,500 won ($24.86) a share, a premium of
about 14 percent to Halla’s previous closing price. Since the
July 4 offer, Halla’s stock has declined 0.4 percent to 24,850
won while Visteon fell 18 percent. Visteon slid 2.6 percent to
$30.53 in  New York , the lowest post-bankruptcy closing price.
Halla fell 2.7 percent in  Seoul  trading.  Visteon has said it will cancel the offer if it doesn’t
receive approval from at least 95 percent of Halla’s
shareholders.  A spokeswoman for Halla, who declined to be named citing
company policy, couldn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment when reached by telephone.  “You never can control the outcome when you offer a price
to someone,” Matt Stover, an analyst at Guggenheim Securities
LLC, said in a telephone interview. “It’s harder even still
when it’s in a foreign country. There are subtleties and forces
that come to bear that have very little to do with the company,
the offer and frankly maybe what is the best thing for the
company itself.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Kim in Seoul at 
 rkim76@bloomberg.net ; Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at
   mclothier@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net ; Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  