-- VMware to Buy Nicira Network Software for $1.26 Billion
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-07-24T20:12:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/vmware-to-buy-nicira-for-1-05-billion-to-add-network-software.html
VMware Inc. (VMW)  is buying Nicira Inc.
for $1.26 billion in cash and equity, adding technology that
helps networks run more efficiently to broaden its appeal to
companies seeking to cut hardware costs.  Palo Alto , California-based VMware, already the biggest
maker of software that enables computers to handle multiple
operating systems, will use the technology to offer similar
services for networks that link computer systems, Paul Maritz,
VMware’s chief executive officer, said yesterday in a statement.  Software such as Nicira’s is designed to give technicians a
faster and more efficient way to manage network changes and
monitor them from one place. The products could help VMware
lessen the need for types of networking equipment sold by  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , said  Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group.  “This is kind of a match made in heaven,” said Marshall,
who’s based in  San Francisco . “You’re taking a leader in
virtualized networks and the gorilla of the dominant vendor in
server virtualization.”  Cisco said yesterday that it’s cutting about 1,300 jobs, or
2 percent of the workforce, to reduce costs and streamline
decision making as economic malaise threatens growth.  VMware is paying $1.05 billion in cash and $210 million of
unvested equity awards for Nicira, which was founded in 2007 and
also based in Palo Alto. Nicira was advised by  Frank Quattrone ’s
Qatalyst Partners LLC.  Horowitz Backing  Nicira had raised $50 million in venture funding from
investors including Andreessen Horowitz, LightSpeed Venture
Partners and  New Enterprise Associates . The company, which only
recently shipped its first production-ready systems, could help
make VMware a key provider of technology across servers,
networks and storage for the coming decade, said  Ben Horowitz , a
Nicira board member and Andreessen Horowitz partner.  Horowitz wrote on his blog yesterday that the acquisition
gives VMware a shot at taking a “good portion” of the $37
billion data networking market. Horowitz said Andreessen
Horowitz invested $17.7 million in Nicira.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, is an investor
in Andreessen Horowitz.  VMware, 80 percent-owned by EMC Corp., separately reported
second-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates as companies
invested in its virtualization software. VMware had reported
some preliminary quarterly figures when it said last week that
Pat Gelsinger will succeed Paul Maritz as CEO.  Beating Estimates  Profit excluding certain costs was 68 cents, VMware said
yesterday in a statement. That compares with the 67-cent
estimate, according to analysts’ forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income fell 13 percent to $191.7 million, or 44
cents a share, from $220.2 million, or 51 cents, a year earlier.
Sales rose 22 percent to $1.12 billion, in line with preliminary
estimates the company released last week.  VMware last week also raised its revenue predictions for
the year to as high as $4.64 billion from $4.63 billion, which
is “a modest surprise” given the weak economy, said Cowen &
Co. analyst Gregg Moskowitz in a note.  “If they don’t raise guidance as a result of this
acquisition people will think they bought their way to the
earnings forecast for the year,” said Brian Freed, an analyst
at Wunderlich Securities Inc. in Denver. Still, “it’s a good
strategic fit. Network virtualization is a logical place for
VMware to go.”  EMC Results  EMC, the world’s biggest maker of storage computers, said
today that sales and profit for the year will meet prior
forecasts. Full-year 2012 profit, excluding some items, will be
$1.70 a share, on revenue of $22 billion, the company said in a
statement, affirming its July 17 forecast. EMC said in April it
would “meet or potentially exceed” those forecasts.  Net income for the second quarter rose 19 percent to $649.5
million, or 29 cents a share. Earnings, excluding some items,
increased to 39 cents a share, matching the preliminary results
announced last week. Sales climbed to $5.31 billion.  EMC gained 2.2 percent to $25.34 at the close in  New York ,
while VMware slipped less than 1 percent to $88.89. VMware has
climbed 6.9 percent this year, and EMC has increased 18 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Rapaport at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  