-- Walnut Place Seeks to Withdraw From BofA Case
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-24T01:57:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/walnut-place-seeks-to-withdraw-from-bofa-case.html
Walnut Place, which was challenging
 Bank of America Corp. ’s proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond
settlement with investors, withdrew from litigation over the
deal.  Walnut Place entities that intervened in the case sought
court permission to withdraw today without giving a reason, in
papers filed in New York State Supreme Court. Justice Barbara Kapnick approved an order permitting the withdrawal.  The move is a boost for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
Bank of America, which reached the settlement last year to
resolve claims over Countrywide Financial mortgage bonds. The
accord is before Kapnick for approval.  Walnut Place is among investors including  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  that intervened seeking more
information about the agreement. New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Delaware Attorney Beau Biden are also
participating in the case, with Schneiderman’s office calling
the settlement “unfair” to investors.  Walnut Place said in court papers that it had “serious
concerns” about the adequacy of the settlement and that Bank of
America was paying $8.5 billion to resolve claims “worth many
times that amount.”  Walnut Place is a pseudonym used by hedge fund Baupost
Group LLC, Theodore Mirvis, a Bank of America attorney, said at
a hearing in  New York  Supreme Court, according to a transcript.  Earlier Suit  Walnut Place sued Bank of America in a separate case,
seeking to force the lender to repurchase loans backing more
than $1 billion in mortgage bonds. Kapnick dismissed the
complaint in March and an appeals court upheld the dismissal
last month.  James Ankner, a spokesman for New York-based AIG, said the
investors that reached the proposed settlement with Bank of
America represent “only a small minority” of investors
affected by the agreement.  AIG and others that have entered the case “represent a
broad spectrum of investors who are continuing to press for
information in order to evaluate the fairness of the proposal
and the process used to reach it,” Ankner said in an e-mailed
statement.  Elaine Mann, a spokeswoman for Boston-based Baupost, and
Owen Cyrulnik, an attorney for Walnut Place, declined to comment
on the withdrawal. Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America
spokesman, also declined to comment on it.  The case is In the matter of the application of the Bank of
New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  