-- When the Olympics Included Mud Fighting and Tug of War
-- B y   B i l l   M a l l o n
-- 2012-07-23T22:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/when-the-olympics-included-mud-fighting-and-tug-of-war.html
Why do the Olympics have the events
they have? Why don’t they have swimming obstacle races, croquet,
rugby or native mud fighting? The answer is that they once did.  Nowadays, the  International Olympic Committee  reviews the
 program  for the games every four years and suggests only minor
adjustments. And so we always have track-and-field athletics,
swimming, gymnastics and a steady roll call of 26-28 other
sports. Such was not always the case.  Until the mid-1920s, the events were chosen ad hoc by the
local organizing committees. Since the  first modern Olympics 
were held in 1896, only track-and-field athletics, cycling,
fencing, gymnastics and swimming have been on the program every
time. Even within those sports, the events have varied widely.  The Olympics of 1900 and 1904 share the honor of hosting
the most unusual sports to have been included. The reason was
that both games were held as sideshows to world’s fairs -- the
Paris Exposition of 1900 and the Louisiana Purchase Exposition
of 1904 -- and therefore lasted several months.  In 1900, a series of obstacles were set up in the Seine
River in Paris. Swimmers lined up for a 200-meter (656-feet)
race in which they had to climb over a pole and a row of boats,
then swim under another row of boats. That was the only time the
200-meter Obstacle Swim Race was contested at the Olympics.  Olympic Croquet  Also in  1900, cricket  was contested for the only time at
the Olympics. The match was purportedly between French and
British teams, but the French contingent was actually composed
of British expatriates working in Paris at the time. Croquet
also was played in Paris, then replaced in  St. Louis  in 1904
with a variant known as roque. Roque was named after croquet, by
dropping the first and last letters, but played with smaller
balls and much tighter wickets. Roque was hailed as the Game of
the Century in 1904, but only four Americans competed and today
it is essentially defunct.  The organizers in 1904 also had the effrontery to conduct a
two-day experiment called  Anthropology Days . The exhibits at the
fair were designed to demonstrate the progress of humanity from
barbarism to the pinnacle of Anglo-Saxon civilization, and this
was exemplified by a series of exhibits contrasting various
races and peoples, including American Indians and Philippine
natives.  The fair organizers thought it would be good to allow the
natives to compete, too, in some of their indigenous sports, as
well as other more common ones, though this served mainly to
mock them. The native peoples -- including not only American
Indians and Filipinos but also Africans and Syrians -- often had
no knowledge of the sports they were asked to attempt, which
included sprinting and shot putting, but also throwing bolos,
mud fighting and climbing a greased pole.  Writing later about the Anthropology Days, Pierre de
Coubertin, founder of the modern  Olympic Games , presciently
said: “As for that outrageous charade, it will of course lose
its appeal when black men, red men, and yellow men learn to run,
jump, and throw, and leave the white men behind them.”  Other Olympic sports since abandoned were simply intended
to be competitions among all available athletes. Tug of war was
quite popular, being held in 1900, 1904, 1908, 1912 and 1920,
before falling from the program. Lacrosse was contested in 1904
and 1908, and in 1904, a Mohawk Indian team from southern
Ontario placed third. This is why we have Olympic medalists with
the wonderful names of Almighty Voice, Black Eagle, Half Moon,
Lightfoot and Man Afraid Soap.  Olympic Polo  In 1900, 1908, 1920, 1924 and 1936, polo was an Olympic
sport, falling from grace only after Berlin in 1936. It was the
last sport to have been discontinued, until baseball and
softball were ousted from the 2012 games. They are to be
replaced in 2016 by golf and rugby sevens -- a smaller, shorter
variant of rugby union. These two sports won out over karate,
squash, roller skating and ballroom dancing. -- but neither will
be new to the Olympics. Golf was contested at those unusual
Olympics of 1900 and 1904, and was on the program for both 1908
and 1920, though it was canceled both times. Rugby tournaments
were held in 1900, 1908, 1920 and 1924. The U.S. won gold twice,
in 1920 and 1924 -- which is why when the sport returns in four
years, the defending champions will be those great practitioners
of the game, the U.S.  And so it goes. Many sports want to be on the Olympic
program, but many more have left the stage. No, the London
organizers will not be placing a series of obstacles in the
Thames, and asking the swimmers to make their way over them.  (Bill Mallon is a previous president and co-founder of the
International Society of Olympic Historians. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on how to  replace Libor  and on
 Europe’s wake-up call ;  Jeffrey Goldberg  on what’s next for the
 Arab Spring ; William Pesek on the  price of economic growth  in
 South Korea ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on Obama’s  welfare mistake ; A. Gary
Shilling on higher education’s  broken financing model ; Betsey
Stevenson and  Justin Wolfers  on  sham economics ; Ilian Scarlatov
on why  Greece should act like Bulgaria .  To contact the writer of this article:
Bill Mallon at  bill1729@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at   mchampion7@bloomberg.net  