-- White Sugar Premium Jumps as India May Curb Exports After Rally
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-23T13:08:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/white-sugar-premium-jumps-as-india-may-curb-exports-after-rally.html
The premium white sugar commands
over the raw variety has climbed 9.5 percent over the past two
weeks as  India , the world’s second-biggest producer, may curb
exports because of rising domestic prices.  White, or refined sugar, was $121.51 a metric ton more
expensive than the raw sweetener by 13:13 p.m. London time,  data 
on Bloomberg show. That compares with $110.97 a ton two weeks
earlier. Sugar prices in India climbed to the highest in 18
months because of a delay to the monsoon rains, Green Pool
Commodity Specialists Pty Ltd., a researcher based in  Brisbane ,
 Australia , said in a weekly report e-mailed today.  “High internal prices in India may divert sugar from
exports,” Nick Penney, a senior trader at London-based broker
Sucden Financial Ltd., said in a report e-mailed today.  India’s monsoon, which brings more than 70 percent of the
country’s annual rainfall, was 22 percent lower than a 50-year
average since June 1, the weather bureau said July 15. A similar
rainfall deficit in 2009 resulted in output there falling by 5
million tons, according to Paul Bannister, head of the sugar
brokerage at Marex Spectron Group in  London .  Wet weather that has delayed the harvest in  Brazil ’s center
south, the main growing region of the world’s top producer, has
“stymied the production of refined sugar,” Sucden’s Penney
said.  Brazil’s white sugar output is set to be smaller in
the 2012-13 season as producers will focus on making products
that demand less time, such as raw sugar and hydrous ethanol,
Luis Roberto Pogetti, chairman of Copersucar SA, owner of mills
in Brazil, said last month.  A potential shortage of deliverable refined white sugar is
behind the move in the white premium, Penney said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 