-- Two U.S. Senators Propose Letting SEC Impose Bigger Penalties
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-07-23T16:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/two-u-s-senators-propose-letting-sec-impose-bigger-penalties.html
U.S. senators  Jack Reed  and  Charles Grassley  introduced a bill to authorize the Securities and
Exchange Commission to impose bigger sanctions after the agency
said it didn’t have adequate tools to deter financial fraud.  Under the proposed legislation, fines against individuals
would be capped at $1 million per violation instead of $150,000
and penalties for firms would be limited to $10 million from
$725,000 for each misdeed, according to a joint statement today
by Reed, the Rhode Island Democrat who leads a subcommittee that
oversees the SEC, and Grassley, the Iowa Republican.  The proposals reflect a November request by SEC Chairman
 Mary Schapiro  that Congress authorize the agency to seek
penalties based on the scope of investor losses. Schapiro made
the request the same day as U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff
rejected a proposed $285 million settlement with  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,
aimed at resolving claims the Wall Street bank misled investors
in a $1 billion financial product linked to souring mortgages.
Rakoff said the agreement was “a very good deal for Citigroup”
that represented “a mild and modest cost of doing business.”  Reed said the bill, which he titled the Stronger
Enforcement of Civil Penalties Act of 2012, would help the SEC
deter individuals and firms from repeatedly violating securities
laws.  “If they look at the bottom line and see they can break
the law, get caught, pay a nominal fine, and still profit, the
cycle of misconduct will continue,” Reed said in a statement.  Grassley said the SEC should use all of the penalties at
its disposal.  “If a fine is just decimal dust for a Wall Street firm,
that’s not a deterrent,” Grassley said in a statement. “A
penalty should mean something, and it should get the
recidivist’s attention.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  