-- World Soccer’s Player-Trade Market Tumbles 34%, FIFA Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-23T17:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/world-soccer-s-player-trade-market-tumbles-34-fifa-says.html
The global recession cut spending in
soccer’s international player-transfer market by 34 percent in
the first half of the year, according to the sport’s governing
body.  Zurich-based FIFA said the drop in transfer and loan
payments for athletes in the world’s most popular sport was due
to tougher conditions in the global economy and financial
control measures imposed on teams in  Europe . That’s where the
majority of soccer’s richest clubs are based.  The total number of cross-border player moves recorded on
FIFA’s Transfer Matching System fell 9 percent to 4,973, and 73
percent of those were free agents changing teams. Costs of
player sales and loans for the six months to June 30, 2012,
declined to $576 million.  “The overriding factor behind that drop is surely the
international recession and the impact it has had on
professional clubs,” FIFA said in an article published on its
 website . “In addition, wealth is now overwhelmingly
concentrated among a select few national associations, while
 UEFA ’s Financial Fair Play regulations are prompting sides to
act more prudently in the market.”  The aim of European ruling body  UEFA’s  plans is to make
clubs live within their means. There will be sanctions, starting
in 2014, for teams that fail to rein in losses.  Brazil  had the busiest transfer market with 700 players
entering or leaving South America’s most populous nation,
according to FIFA’s report.  England , home to soccer’s richest
league, placed second with 326 player movements.  Clubs in  Russia  had the biggest outlay, spending $64.4
million while Brazil’s teams were the largest recipients,
banking $64.9 million in trades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  