-- Yankees Get Ichiro Suzuki in Trade With Seattle, End Losing Skid
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-24T05:25:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-23/yankees-acquire-outfielder-ichiro-suzuki-in-trade-with-mariners.html
The  New York Yankees  acquired two-
time batting champion  Ichiro Suzuki  from the  Seattle Mariners ,
adding a regular left fielder and speed threat for the rest of
the season to replace the injured  Brett Gardner .  The 38-year-old Ichiro went 1-for-4 with a single in his
Yankees debut last night as New York snapped a season-high four-
game losing streak with a 4-1 win against his former team in
 Seattle . He started in right field for the injured  Nick Swisher 
and batted eighth in the Yankees’ lineup.  After 11 1/2 seasons in Seattle, Ichiro said he requested a
trade following the All-Star break. He went from a team that is
in last place in the American League West division to the team
with the best record in  Major League Baseball  at 58-38.  “I had a strong sense that I’d like to be stimulated by
changing my environment,” Ichiro said through an interpreter at
a pre-game news conference. “I felt I shouldn’t remain on a
team that had so many young players. I’m grateful to the
Mariners for accepting my decision.”  The Yankees sent pitching prospects D.J. Mitchell and Danny Farquhar to the Mariners for Ichiro and an undisclosed amount of
cash.  Ichiro was greeted by applause when he headed to the
outfield in a Yankee uniform in the bottom of the first inning
and received another standing ovation when he first came to bat
in the third inning. Ichiro took off his helmet and bowed to the
Mariners’ fans twice before ripping a single up the middle and
then stealing second base.  Ichiro’s Number  Ichiro wore No. 31 -- Dave Winfield’s number while with the
Yankees -- instead of the 51 he had on his uniform in Seattle.
All-Star outfielder  Bernie Williams  most recently wore No. 51
over his 16-year career with the Yankees. Ichiro popped up,
grounded out and lined out in his final three at-bats. He also
caught a pop up in right field for the game’s final out.  “It’s very special to put on the Yankees uniform and
especially being at Safeco where I played,” Ichiro said in a
televised interview with the Yankees Entertainment & Sports
Network. “I was a little worried, I didn’t know what the fans
were going to react to, but they were very kind.”  With Gardner on the disabled list, the Yankees have
primarily used  Andruw Jones  and  Raul Ibanez  in left field this
season, while Dewayne Wise, Darnell McDonald and Jayson Nix are
among those who also have seen time at the position.  Ichiro has won 10 Gold Glove awards for his defense since
joining the Mariners in 2001, when he became the first Japanese-
born non-pitcher in major league history. He won American League
batting titles in 2001 and 2004, has led or been tied for the
major league lead in hits seven times, and is second among
active players with 439 career stolen bases.  Creating Runs  “I’ve had people say to me, ‘You have the best record,
you’re in first place, you’ve played extremely well, how exactly
do you miss Gardy?” Yankees manager  Joe Girardi  said of Gardner.
“Well, he’s the one guy who creates and causes havoc on our
club that we haven’t had. There are days that you miss that.
Sometimes you need to create a run.”  The Yankees traveled to Seattle after losing four straight
games in Oakland by one run.  While the Yankees lead the majors with 151 homers,
Gardner’s injury left them without a player who had 96 stolen
bases over the previous two seasons. Gardner led the AL with 49
steals last year, when he hit .259 with seven home runs, 36 runs
batted in and 87 runs scored.  “The Yankees have become a ballclub too dependent upon
home runs and that brand of baseball leads to losses in the
first round” of the playoffs, said Wayne McDonnell, an
associate professor of sports management at  New York University .
“The Yankees need someone who can get a single in a key
situation late in a ballgame and can run from first to third on
a hit with ease. Ichiro is the perfect ballplayer for this type
of role.”  Lowest Average  Ichiro had hit .261 for the Mariners this year, his lowest
batting average in 12 MLB seasons and 61 points below his career
average of .322. While he played his usual right field position
last night, Girardi said he’ll primarily be used in left field.
Ichiro said the last time he played left field was at Yankee
Stadium during the 2001 AL Championship Series between the
Mariners and Yankees.  Ichiro is in the final season of a five-year, $90 million
contract and the YES Network reported that the Yankees will pay
him $2.25 million for the remainder of the 2012 season.  ‘Great Embarrassment’  McDonnell, who created the “Business of Baseball” course
at  New York  University, said the Yankees saved the Mariners from
“great embarrassment” when Ichiro’s contract was to expire
after the season. He also said that both Ichiro and the Yankees
know the experiment will end at some point in October and
Gardner, 28, will be back in left field next season.  “With the Mariners in the process of rebuilding, they
couldn’t offer Ichiro a lucrative contract and it could have led
to the demise of a fruitful relationship,” McDonnell said in an
e-mail. “Both Ichiro and the Mariners know the future value of
their relationship relies heavily on his post-playing days and
his entrance into the Hall of Fame as a Mariner.”  In terms of marketing, McDonnell said that Ichiro will
provide a temporary spike for the Yankees in television ratings,
apparel purchases and ticket sales.  In 95 games for the Mariners this year, Ichiro had four
home runs, while scoring 49 runs, driving in 28 runs and
stealing 15 bases. In 2011, Ichiro’s .272 batting average marked
his first major league season below .300.  Ichiro entered last night’s game with 330 more hits than
any other major leaguer since his debut in 2001, when he won the
AL Most Valuable Player and Rookie of the Year awards.  “I’ve admired him from afar for years and I’m looking
forward to the opportunity to playing with him,” Yankees
shortstop and captain  Derek Jeter  said last night.  Two Pitchers  In exchange for Ichiro, the Mariners received a pair of 25-
year-old right-handers in Mitchell and Farquhar.  Mitchell saw his first major league experience this year,
allowing two runs over 4 2/3 innings in four relief appearances
for the Yankees. He’s spent most of the season at Triple-A
Scranton Wilkes-Barre, going 6-4 with a 5.04 earned run average
in 15 games, including 14 starts.  Farquhar was acquired off waivers from Oakland last month
and was 1-0 with four saves in a combined seven minor league
relief appearances for the Yankees’ Triple-A and Double-A
Trenton affiliates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  