-- 
‘Potter’ Finale Has Record $169.2 Million at Box Office

-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-07-18T21:52:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/-harry-potter-finale-has-record-168-6-million-in-sales-1-.html
“ Harry Potter  and the Deathly
Hallows, Part 2,” the final movie in the series based on J.K. Rowling’s books about a boy wizard, opened with a record $169.2
million in weekend ticket sales in the U.S. and  Canada .  The film, in which the title character meets his nemesis
 Lord Voldemort  in a final showdown, also set records of $43.5
million for midnight showings and $92.1 million in single-day
sales on July 15, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today
in an e-mailed statement.  “Deathly Hallows 2” ends a series that has generated more
than $6.85 billion in worldwide ticket sales for  Warner Bros .,
according to  Box Office Mojo . The film, the first in the series
to be shown completely in 3-D, is getting a lift from higher
prices charged for the three-dimensional format and its
placement in more Imax theaters.  The film’s performance was “phenomenal,” said  Brandon Gray , editor of Boxofficemojo.com, a website that tracks box-
office performance.  “Finding new ways to describe how great it is is tough,”
he said. “To have a franchise this big you have to have broad
appeal. It’s not just fanboys and girls rushing to see it.”  The movie was expected to have sales of $151 million, the
forecast of Box Office Media LLC. It beat the three-day record
of $158.4 million set by “The  Dark Knight ” in 2009. Both films
are from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros. studio.  “Deathly Hallows 2” opened on 11,200 screens, the most of
any of the Potter movies, and 4,250 of them were in 3-D, Dan Fellman, president of domestic theatrical production for Warner
Bros., said in a telephone interview. Customers pay about $3
more to see movies in 3-D.  3-D  “We’re happy with our 3-D numbers,” Fellman said. “One-
third out of every ticket purchased was 3-D, which represents
approximately $76 million of ticket sales.”  Hollywood.com also said the movie set records for the
largest Imax openings domestically ($15.5 million) and globally
($23.5 million).  The movie is the eighth film from the series of seven
books, the last having been split into two parts. In Part 2, war
breaks out in the magical world, climaxing in a final
pyrotechnic confrontation between Harry and the dark Lord
Voldemort.  The film stars  Daniel Radcliffe ,  Rupert Grint  and  Emma Watson  as Harry and his friends,  Ron Weasley  and Hermione
Granger. The three main stars and most of the supporting cast
have been part of the series from the beginning.  ‘Winnie the Pooh’  The films provided a decade of work for some of the U.K.’s
best-known actors, including  Ralph Fiennes , as Voldemort, Alan Rickman, Helena Bonham Carter and  Maggie Smith . The first film
made its debut in November 2001.  Warner Bros. abandoned plans to release “Harry Potter and
the Deathly Hallows, Part 1” in 3-D, saying in a statement last
year the conversion didn’t meet studio quality standards.  The weekend’s only other new wide release,  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s animated “Winnie the Pooh” took in $7.9 million to
finish sixth. The film features the voices of John Cleese and
Craig Ferguson.  Two other films had noteworthy weekends.  “Midnight in Paris,” which finished 10th, became Woody Allen’s biggest-ever commercial success. The  Sony Corp. (6758)  film has
taken in $41.8 million in sales, exceeding his former record of
$40.1 million with “Hannah and Her Sisters” in 1986.  $300 Million  And last week’s No. 1 film, “Transformers: Dark of the
Moon,” came in second with $21.3 million. The Paramount
Pictures release is the first movie this year to exceed $300
million at the domestic box office, Hollywood.com said.  Revenue for the weekend for the top 12 films rose 46
percent to $250.7 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com
said. Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 7.3
percent, while attendance is down 8.7 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for July
15-16 and today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  