-- 
‘Unprecedented’ Retail Slump Tanks Shopping-Mall Bonds: Australia Credit

-- B y   S a r a h   M c D o n a l d
-- 
2011-07-18T07:19:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/-unprecedented-retail-slump-tanks-shopping-mall-bonds-australia-credit.html
A drop in Australian consumer demand
that sparked the biggest weekly slump in retail stocks in more
than two years is spilling into the nation’s credit markets.  The cost to protect the bonds of mall owner Westfield Group
jumped to an eight-month high last week after  David Jones Ltd. (DJS) 
cut profit forecasts and a report showed  consumer confidence 
fell by the most since Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. collapsed
in 2008. Government bond yields declined the most in more than 2
1/2 years as investors added to bets the central bank will lower
interest rates.  Australian household spending, which represents about half
the nation’s economy, has stalled amid natural disasters,
falling home prices and increased savings. The S&P/ASX 200
Retailing Index extended declines today after tumbling 13
percent last week, its biggest drop since October 2008.  “The weakness in the Australian retail sector has taken a
further leg down, and we expect an increasing number of
retailers will be requiring rent assistance or being forced to
close their stores and default on leases,” said Ben Byrne, a
Sydney-based credit analyst at Nomura  Australia  Ltd. “While
this will have a greater impact on equity, it will also cause a
general underperformance of the sector in credit.”  Lowered Forecast  Earlier this month the  Reserve Bank  of Australia said that
the nation’s growth pace may be weaker than previously forecast,
retreating from a prediction two months earlier that the economy
will expand 4.25 percent this year, the fastest pace since 1999.  “The dramatic and rapid deterioration in trading
conditions in 2011’s fourth quarter has been unprecedented,”
 David Jones  Chief Executive Officer Paul Zahra said in the
retailer’s statement on July 13.  Australia’s second-largest department-store chain cut the
hours worked by floor staff in June and July because of lower
sales, Sydney-based spokeswoman Helen Karlis said today.  Credit-default swaps on Sydney-based  Westfield Group (WDC) , the
country’s biggest mall owner, climbed 13 basis points last week
to 130 basis points on July 15, the highest since Nov. 3,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in privately negotiated
markets.  Swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet
its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis
point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  Yield Spreads  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT) ’s A$800 million of 7 percent bonds
due in October 2016, which were priced to yield 120 basis points
more than swap rates in April, widened to a spread of 139 today,
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. prices show. The
Sydney-based company owns stakes in 42 Australian malls
containing more than 11,000 shops, according to its  website .  The relative yield on shopping center-owner  Stockland (SGP) ’s
A$300 million of 8.5 percent 2015 notes surged to 162 from as
low as 134 on April 26, Commonwealth Bank of Australia prices
show. Retailers David Jones,  Myer Holdings Ltd. (MYR)  and Harvey
Norman Holdings Ltd. don’t have bonds outstanding, Bloomberg
data show.  Traders added to bets over the past week that the RBA may
repeat its record rate cuts of 2008 as debt crises in Europe and
the U.S. intensified.  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service may lower
the AAA rating of the U.S., the risk assessors said last week,
as lawmakers clashed over raising the nation’s $14.3 trillion
debt ceiling. Europe’s woes have entered a new phase, and policy
makers must come up with a “clear” response to stop the
contagion that threatens the euro, the  European Central Bank ’s
incoming president,  Mario Draghi , said July 13.  Australia Fallout  The prospects of international financial turmoil are
weighing on consumers in Australia, adding to domestic concerns
including a proposed carbon tax and falling house prices, said
Joshua Williamson, senior economist in Sydney at Citigroup Inc.  “We’ve got full employment at the moment, wages are
rising, but that’s being tempered by all this negative news out
of  Europe ,” he said.  Westpac Banking Corp. economists led by  Bill Evans  said
July 15 that the bank expects the RBA to reduce rates by 100
basis points, with a 25-basis-point cut in 2011 and the rest in
2012. The  unemployment rate  may rise as high as 5.75 percent
next year, from 4.9 percent last month, they said in an e-mailed
statement.  Yields on  government bonds  maturing in six years or less
held below the cash rate of 4.75 percent today and the 10-year
yield dropped 32 basis points in five days to 4.91 percent on
July 15, the biggest weekly drop since November 2008. The 10-
year rate declined to 4.89 percent as of 5:18 p.m. in Sydney.  Housing Slows  The extra yield investors demand to hold Australian
corporate bonds instead of government debt rose four basis
points last week to 176, a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
shows.  Australian homeowners are more pessimistic about the
housing market as falling prices and slowing rental growth damp
growth expectations, a National Australia Bank Ltd. poll showed
June 14.  Home prices  fell 2 percent in the second quarter and
rental growth slowed to 1.3 percent, Australia’s fourth-largest
lender said in an e-mailed report.  Mortgage holders are grappling with the highest benchmark
interest rate in the developed world after RBA governor  Glenn
Stevens  raised the benchmark seven times between October 2009
and November 2010 as he sought to control price pressures from
the nation’s biggest mining boom in a century.  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded
currency, fell 1 percent last week to $1.0653 on July 15 in  New
York . The so-called Aussie has risen 22 percent against the
greenback in the past 12 months, and traded at $1.0611 today.  Business Confidence  Business confidence in the nation dropped to a six-month
low in June on a rising currency and signs of weaker global
growth, according to a National Australia Bank survey of more
than 400 companies released July 12.  Australia’s consumer sentiment index plunged 8.3 percent to
92.8 for July from a month earlier, the biggest decline since
October 2008 and the lowest level since May 2009, according to a
Westpac and Melbourne Institute survey of 1,200 consumers taken
July 4-9. Retail sales unexpectedly fell in May, led by declines
on clothing and footwear spending, according government data.  Sluggish Sales  “Sentiment surrounding the retail sector has been weak,
with sluggish sales growth,” Citigroup Inc. analysts led by
David Burgess wrote in a July 14 report. For retail landlords,
“key sources of potential downside include declining occupancy
and lower leasing spreads.”  Credit-default swaps on GPT Group, Australia’s second-
biggest diversified property trust by market capitalization,
climbed 10 basis points last week to 142. Contracts on
Woolworths Ltd., the country’s biggest supermarket owner, rose
six basis points to 78, according to CMA. The Markit iTraxx
Australia index of contracts on 25 of the nation’s biggest
companies rose 13 basis points to 124.  “Credit markets have done a reasonable job of pricing in
the risk of a rapidly de-gearing consumer and a resulting weaker
economy,” said Chris Viol, a Sydney-based credit analyst at UBS
AG. “So it’s hard now, to trade from the short side; if
anything, we’re watching some CDS names from the long side given
how much widening we’ve seen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McDonald in Sydney at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net . 