-- 
Arab Spring Pits Saudi Security Against U.S. Support for Change

-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 
2011-07-17T20:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/arab-spring-pits-saudi-security-concern-against-u-s-support-for-uprisings.html
The Arab Spring might be turning
chilly for the U.S.’s alliance with  Saudi Arabia .  With the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, the 2003
invasion of Iraq and more Saudi oil sales to  Asia , U.S. sway
over Saudi Arabia has declined as their policies diverge, said
 Theodore Karasik , an analyst at the Institute for Near East and
Gulf Military Analysis. The popular uprisings in the Middle East
this year tested their partnership by pitting U.S. support for
democracy against Saudi Arabia’s desire for a status quo.  “Now, when push comes to shove, Saudi Arabia will pursue
its own policies regardless of what the U.S and others think,”
Karasik said in a telephone interview from Dubai.  Saudi Arabia backed former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak 
right to the end of his rule in February and sent troops to
protect the Al Khalifa rulers in  Bahrain . The U.S., which last
year approved a $60 billion arms sale to Saudi Arabia, called
for a transition in Egypt and dialogue in Bahrain.  President  Barack Obama ’s government on June 16 put Bahrain
on its list of human rights violators along with countries such
as  North Korea  and  Iran .  The same day , Sheikh Khalid bin Hamad
bin Isa Al Khalifa, a son of Bahrain’s King Hamad, signed a
marriage contract with the daughter of Saudi  King Abdullah .  “Saudi Arabia wasn’t happy with the way the Obama
administration dealt with Hosni Mubarak,” Khalid al-Dakhil, a
Saudi political science professor, said in phone interview.
“They also disagreed over Bahrain.”  Oil for Security  Since King Abdul-Aziz Al Saud met U.S. president Franklin D. Roosevelt aboard the USS Quincy in 1945, the U.S. and the Al
Saud monarchy were practical partners. Oil for security
underpinned the relationship, even if they disagreed on such
issues as the Arab-Israel conflict.  Since the latest unrest started, Saudi Arabia, the world’s
largest oil exporter, has used its financial wealth to back
allies. The kingdom provided  Egypt  with $900 million of grants
and loans under an accord last month and gave Jordan $400
million in financial aid. In Yemen, the six-member  Gulf
Cooperation Council  has called for a transition of power.  The two countries “will cooperate on things where we have
a common interest,” said Gregory Gause, a political science
professor at the University of  Vermont . “Right now, that
includes containment of Iran, some solution in Yemen, counter-
terrorism. At times the Saudis will take positions in the oil
realm that we will like, at times they won’t.”  Different Needs  Saudi Arabia this year announced spending plans totaling
about 500 billion-riyals ($130 billion) as the kingdom seeks to
prevent regional unrest from sparking dissent at home. With the
spending, Saudi Arabia will need an $85-a-barrel oil price to
balance its budget this year, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a
report e-mailed on July 2.  Saudi Arabia has many of its “own objectives for their
military that fit their national security needs, not ours,”
said Paul Sullivan, a political scientist specializing in  Middle
East  security at  Georgetown University . “The entrance into
Bahrain is an example of this.”  In Egypt, hundreds of protesters are continuing a sit-in in
Cairo, Alexandria and Suez that started on July 8 to demand the
government accelerate political and economic changes.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said on July 11
that her government is working to help “begin the slow, hard
work of building sustainable democracies rooted in guaranteed
human rights, accountable institutions, and the rule of law.”  ‘Flagrant Interference’  A day before Mubarak ceded power to the military, Saudi
Arabia denounced the “flagrant interference of some countries”
in the internal affairs of Egypt, the Saudi Press Agency said,
citing Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal.  Since then, the officials in  Riyadh  have said little
publicly about Egypt or  Syria , where the government this month
said the U.S. was trying to incite rebellion against President
Bashar al-Assad. Clinton said on July 11 that Assad had lost his
legitimacy to rule amid a crackdown on dissenters.  The changing relationship with the U.S. is also a
reflection of how Saudi Arabia has increasingly turned toward
Asia to tap new oil markets and for business expansion.  About 65 percent of the kingdom’s 2009 daily exports of
6.27 million barrels went to Asia and the Pacific, while  North
America  received 17 percent, OPEC said in its 2009 statistical
bulletin. In 2008, Asia received 58 percent of Saudi exports,
while North America got 22 percent.  Turning East  Saudi Arabia’s independence from U.S. foreign policy “is
not just from the Arab Spring, but also from the fact that oil
demand has shifted from the U.S. to  China  more and more each
year,” said Sullivan at Georgetown University.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) ’s Chief Executive Officer
Mohamed al-Mady said in May that the world’s largest
petrochemical maker, plans further expansions in China. King
Abdullah, 86, picked China as the first destination on his
maiden foreign tour in January 2006, months after becoming king.  The Saudi  government said  on July 11 after a discussion on
the “continuing crises” that it is “keen on the security,
stability, unity and independence of Arab countries.” The Saudi
government “doesn’t want to see further instability in the
Middle East,” said Karasik in Dubai.  Nawaf Obaid, a senior fellow at the  King Faisal Center for
Research & Islamic Studies  in Riyadh, wrote in an editorial for
the Washington Post in May that a “tectonic shift has occurred
in the U.S.-Saudi relationship.”  He argued that Saudi Arabia will chart its own policy after
U.S. “missteps in the region” since Sept. 11 and its “ill-
conceived response to the Arab protest movement.”  Saudi Arabia’s perception of the U.S. hardened with
invasion of neighboring  Iraq  in 2003. Saudi Arabia started to
pursue a more independent regional policy, al-Dakhil said.  When demonstrations erupted by mainly Shiite protesters in
Bahrain in February, Sunni monarchies in the Persian Gulf were
concerned that Shiite Muslim-led Iran was stoking the unrest.
Saudi Arabia sent more than 1,000 troops to Bahrain to protect a
red line against Iranian influence.  “The Americans handed Iraq to the Iranians,” al-Dakhil
said in a telephone interview from Riyadh. “The Saudis weren’t
willing to let this happen again in Bahrain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  