-- 
Australian Stock Futures Rise as Trichet Boosts Recovery Hopes

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-17T23:41:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/australian-stock-futures-rise-as-trichet-boosts-hopes-for-global-recovery.html
Australian stock futures rose after
European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said the
region can surmount its debt crisis, boosting confidence in a
global recovery that would benefit Asian exporters.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company and
Australia’s No. 1 oil producer, may advance after copper prices
gained in New York and  London .  Billabong International Ltd. (BBG) , the
world’s largest surfwear maker that gets more than a fifth of
its revenue in Europe, may also rise. Esprit Holdings Ltd., with
83 percent of its sales in Europe, may climb in  Hong Kong .  James
Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , the No. 1 seller of home siding in the
U.S., may decline as concern mounted that negotiations toward
raising America’s debt ceiling are failing to progress.  Futures on Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.4 percent
today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index fell 0.3 percent in Wellington
after a government report showed the inflation rate was higher
than economists had estimated for the second quarter. Japan’s
markets are closed today for a holiday.  Futures on Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.2 percent.
The gauge rose 0.6 percent on July 15 in  New York , trimming its
weekly loss, even as concern that a political impasse over
raising the federal debt limit is putting the nation’s top
credit rating in jeopardy.  House Speaker John Boehner, a Republican from Ohio, told
reporters his party wouldn’t accept any tax increases as they
work with President Barack Obama on a deal to lower deficits.  The ECB’s Trichet said Europe can overcome its sovereign-
debt crisis.  ‘Question of Will’  “Naturally the Europeans can manage the issue,” he said
in an interview with the Financial Times Deutschland, according
to a transcript released by the Frankfurt-based ECB. “It is not
a question of technique. It is a question of will and
determination.” Trichet said the euro is not in danger and
remains “a highly credible currency.”  Asian commodity stocks may rise today after copper futures
for September delivery increased 0.8 percent on the Comex in New
York on July 15. The metal climbed 0.4 percent in London.  Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s second-biggest oil and
gas producer, and third-largest  Santos Ltd. (STO)  may gain after crude
for August delivery rose 1.6 percent on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  on July 15.  HTC Corp., Asia’s second-biggest maker of smartphones, may
advance in Taipei after saying it will buy back as much as 2.4
percent of its outstanding shares after the U.S. International
Trade Commission ruled it infringed two Apple Inc. patents.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.5 percent this year
through July 15, compared with a gain of 4.7 percent by the S&P
500 and a drop of 3.2 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.5 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.3 times for the  S&P 500 
and 10.7 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 