-- 
Bangladesh Stocks Fall After Finance Chief Critical of Rally

-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 
2011-07-17T09:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/bangladesh-stocks-fall-after-finance-chief-critical-of-rally.html
Bangladesh  stocks declined for the
first time in almost two weeks after the finance minister
suggested market manipulation may be a cause of recent gains.  “I don’t like the way the market is rising,” Finance
Minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith told reporters in Dhaka after
the markets had closed on July 14. “There is an ill intention
behind it. No new funds have flowed into the market. The old
players are putting their money back in.”  The Dhaka Stock Exchange’s General Index fell 91.69 points,
or 1.4 percent, to close at 6,486.58 as of 3 p.m. local time.
The local bourse is shut on Fridays and Saturdays. The shares
have risen 12 percent in the past month.  “The finance minister’s comments have alerted the
markets,” said Yawer Sayeed, chief executive officer of Asset &
Investment Management Services of Bangladesh, a Dhaka-based
 asset management company . “The markets cannot go up every
day.”  Bangladesh, where more than half of the 166 million people
don’t have access to electricity, aims to boost economic growth
to 8 percent within three years, from 5.8 percent last year,
central bank Governor Atiur Rahman said in April. The South
Asian nation will increase spending by a record 26 percent to an
unprecedented 1.63 trillion taka ($22 billion), Muhith told
lawmakers June 9.  Bangladesh’s government said last month it would revive an
amnesty offer that allows tax evaders to put their undisclosed
wealth in equities. Individuals hoarding so-called “black
money” can buy stocks with the cash after paying a flat 10
percent tax as penalty, Muhith told lawmakers in Dhaka on June
28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Mumbai at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net  