-- 
HTC Plans to Buy Back Stock After U.S. Ruling on Apple Patent Infringement

-- B y   Y u - H u a y   S u n
-- 
2011-07-17T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/htc-plans-share-buyback-after-u-s-ruling-on-apple-patent-infringement.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-biggest
maker of smartphones, said it will buy back as much as 2.4
percent of its outstanding shares after a U.S. International
Trade Commission ruled that it infringed two  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  patents.  HTC shares tumbled 6.5 percent last week to NT$907 ($31.40)
in Taipei amid concern the patent dispute with Apple will erode
earnings by crimping sales in the U.S. or boosting costs. They
closed at a six-month low of NT$870 on July 13.  “The stock repurchase plan may stop the stock from
falling” today, said Parker Wu, a  fund manager  overseeing NT$4
billion for Taipei-based Agriculture Bank of  Taiwan , who doesn’t
own HTC shares. “Longer term, it’ll depend on how the lawsuit
goes and the attitude of foreign investors, as they control more
than half of HTC’s shares.”  The company, based in Taoyuan, northern Taiwan, will
purchase as many as 20 million of its own shares by Sept. 17,
according to filings to the Taiwan stock exchange on July 16.
Half of the repurchased shares will be transferred to employees,
and the remainder canceled.  HTC said on July 16 it will appeal a ruling by a U.S. judge
that the company infringed two Apple patents. Administrative Law
Judge Carl Charneski’s July 15 finding is subject to review by
the full six-member International Trade Commission in  Washington .  Should the commission uphold the finding, the U.S. may ban
imports of some HTC phones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android,
the nation’s most popular smartphone operating system.  Royalties Possible  “This isn’t the worst-case scenario for HTC, which was
found not to violate the other eight patents in the case,”
Michael On, president of Taipei-based Beyond Asset Management
Co., who doesn’t own the company’s shares, said yesterday.
“They will probably resolve the issue by paying royalties,
which will raise costs.” He declined to disclose the size of
his assets.  HTC and Apple more than doubled mobile phone revenue from a
year earlier in the first quarter as they shipped their products
to more markets around the globe.  Apple, once best known for its Mac computers, now relies on
iPhones for about 50 percent of sales and the iPad tablet for 12
percent, according to first-quarter figures compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  