-- 
Cameron Cuts Short Africa Trip to Focus on News Corp. Crisis

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-18T07:17:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/cameron-to-cut-short-visit-to-africa-to-seize-initiative-in-hacking-crisis.html
David Cameron  will cut short a visit
to Africa starting today in a bid to take control in the phone-
hacking crisis that has led to the arrest of his former press
chief and questions about his dealings with  Rupert Murdoch .  The prime minister will be in  Nigeria  tomorrow while
Murdoch and his son James give evidence to lawmakers about
wrongdoing at their News of the World newspaper. He will return
to London on July 20. Cameron will then complete arrangements
for inquiries into phone hacking and the media and announce
details before the end of the week, according to a person
familiar with the plans.  “This is deeply toxic for Cameron,” said Stephen Driver,
who teaches politics at  London ’s Roehampton University. “The
danger isn’t just that it isn’t going to go away, but that it
could get worse. Going to Africa could have been a perfect
Cameron moment. It’s what the modern progressive  Conservative
Party  should be all about, but he’s being dragged back.”  Since the July 4 revelation that reporters working for the
News of the World hacked the mobile phone of a murdered
schoolgirl and deleted messages, what Cameron called a
“firestorm” has swept through the British media, the political
world and the police.  In two weeks, the scandal has forced Murdoch to shut down
the News of the World, scuppered his bid for  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and led to the resignations of News Corp.
executives Rebekah Brooks, a former News of the World editor,
and  Les Hinton .  Fallout Spreads  Yesterday the fallout continued to spread as hours after
Brooks was arrested by police, U.K. Metropolitan Police
Commissioner Paul Stephenson unexpectedly resigned, blaming
speculation about his force’s decision to hire Neil Wallis, a
former News of the World executive who was arrested last week,
to give public relations advice.  Cameron learned of the resignation at 7:20 p.m. U.K. time,
minutes before the official statement, and made a series of
phone calls aboard the plane from London, including to Home
Secretary Theresa May, his spokesman, Steve Field, told
reporters. Cameron said he respected and understood Stephenson’s
decision, according to a statement released by his office.  Close Relationship  In his resignation statement, Stephenson said that he had
been unable to advise Cameron that Wallis was going to be
arrested because of the prime minister’s closeness to his former
director of communications,  Andy Coulson , who was Wallis’s boss
at the News of the World.  “I did not want to compromise the prime minister in any
way by revealing or discussing a potential suspect who clearly
had a close relationship with Mr. Coulson,” Stephenson said.  He also contrasted his force’s decision to hire Wallis in
2009 with Cameron’s 2007 decision to employ Coulson, who had
then recently resigned from the paper over phone-hacking,
Stephenson said.  “Unlike Mr. Coulson, Mr. Wallis had not resigned from the
News of the World or, to the best of my knowledge been in any
way associated with the original phone-hacking investigation,”
he said.  Speaking on BBC Radio 4’s “Today” program, the home
secretary said no pressure had been put on Stephenson to quit.  “The Met is different from government,” May said. “The
Met is responsible for the investigation. It’s important to keep
a line between investigators and the investigated.”  Mounting Pressure  Cameron is under mounting pressure over his decision to
hire Coulson. The prime minister says there was no reason to
doubt Coulson’s assurances that he had no knowledge of phone
hacking under his editorship. Coulson left his government job in
January as allegations of wrongdoing at the newspaper mounted
and was arrested on July 7.  On July 15, Cameron published details of his meetings with
executives of media organisations since he took office in May
2010. They showed more than 40 percent of his contacts had been
with executives of News International, the publisher of  News
Corp. (NWSA)  papers in Britain. Cameron also entertained Coulson in
March, two months after Coulson stepped down.  “At a time when he is supposed to be navigating Britain
through both domestic and global debt crises, the prime minister
is desperately trying to align himself with public opinion and
distance himself from the News International scandal,”  the
Daily Telegraph  said in an editorial on July 16. “Government
has given way to the shallowest form of  crisis management .”  Boost for Miliband  While the scandal has cost Cameron public support,
opposition  Labour Party  leader  Ed Miliband  has seen his approval
rating improve after successfully leading calls for judge-led
inquiries, for News Corp. to drop its BSkyB bid and for Brooks
to resign.  Twenty-seven percent say Miliband is a good leader of the
Labour Party, compared with 18 percent in June, according to a
 ComRes Ltd . poll of 2,009 voters carried out July 13-14. Voters
who think Cameron is a good prime minister slipped to 33 percent
from 37 percent. The same poll has Labour on 40 percent of the
vote compared with 36 percent for the Conservatives. No margin
of error was given.  Miliband yesterday called for new media ownership laws that
would limit the capacity for one person to have as much control
as Murdoch has enjoyed. “If you want to minimise the abuses of
power then that kind of concentration of power is frankly quite
dangerous,” he told the Observer newspaper.  Cameron’s trip to  Africa  was planned to last four days and
include visits to  Rwanda  and South Sudan, both now scrubbed from
the itinerary, according to people familiar with the plans. He
left the U.K. for South Africa yesterday evening and will meet
with President Jacob Zuma today before flying on to Nigeria on
his way home.  Barclays Plc Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and
Vodafone CEO Vittorio Colao are among business leaders joining
Cameron on the trip as he seeks to live up to his promise to put
promoting British business at the heart of his foreign policy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny with the Prime Minister at
 tpenny@bloomberg.net :
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 