-- 
Mark Cavendish Wins Stage 15 of Tour de France; Voeckler Keeps Race Lead

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-07-17T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/cavendish-wins-15th-stage-of-tour-de-france-voeckler-keeps-yellow-jersey.html
Mark Cavendish  won stage 15 of the
 Tour de France  in a sprint finish yesterday, the British rider’s
fourth victory in this year’s race, to extend his lead in the
points competition.  The HTC-Highroad rider finished just ahead of Tyler Farrar
of the U.S. after a 192.5-kilometer (119-mile) ride from Limoux
to Montpellier, with Italy’s Alessandro Petacchi third.  Thomas Voeckler  of France finished in the main pack, along with the
overall Tour favorites, and keeps the leader’s yellow jersey.  “I always say I can’t let the guys down when they ride
like that,” Cavendish told Eurosport. “The reason my guys ride
is because they have confidence in me. It was incredible.”  The 26-year-old Cavendish has now won 19 times in the Tour
since first competing in cycling’s premier road race in 2008.
His best performance was six wins in the race in 2009.  He has a  37-point lead  over  Spain ’s Jose Joaquin Rojas in
the battle for this year’s green jersey. Belgium’s Philippe
Gilbert, third in that category, attempted a breakaway with
three kilometers remaining yesterday but was soon caught by the
peloton led by the HTC team.  Cavendish took over from his teammates with about 300
meters to go and fought off a strong challenge from Farrar,
Petacchi and Daniel Oss of Italy.  Earlier, a five-man breakaway led for most of the stage.
Three French riders, Mickael Delage, Samuel Dumoulin and Anthony
Delaplace, were absorbed by the pack with a little over 20
kilometers left, remaining leaving Mikhail Ignatiev and Niki
Terpstra in front.  Ignatiev Caught  Russia’s Ignatiev was caught with five kilometers
remaining, while Terpstra of the Netherlands stayed out front
until the late move by a group including Gilbert.  Team Europcar’s Voeckler  maintained his 1 minute, 49-second
lead  over Frank Schleck of Luxembourg in the overall standings
with six stages remaining.  The time differences between the overall Tour favorites
remained unchanged:  Australia ’s Cadel Evans is a further 17
seconds off the lead, nine seconds ahead of Andy Schleck, with
defending champion  Alberto Contador  of Spain 4 minutes behind
Voeckler in seventh.  Kazakh cyclist Alexandre Vinokourov, third in the race in
2003, has announced his retirement from the sport, a week after
crashing out of the Tour with a thigh fracture, Agence France-
Press reported.  Vinokourov, 37, had four Tour de France stage wins in his
career and was banned for two years after testing positive for
blood doping in 2007.  There is a rest day today, and the event continues tomorrow
with a 162.5-kilometer ride from Saint-Paul-Trois-Chateaux to
Gap as the Tour approaches the Alps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 