-- 
CDC-Backed Aureos Capital to Raise $200 Million South Asia Fund

-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 
2011-07-17T18:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/cdc-backed-aureos-capital-to-raise-200-million-south-asia-fund.html
Aureos Capital Ltd., an emerging
markets private-equity firm, plans to raise a $200 million fund
to invest in  India , Sri Lanka and  Bangladesh  to tap growth in
South Asian economies.  The fund will close by the end of next year, Balaji
Srinivas, Mumbai-based managing partner at Aureos India
Advisers, said in a phone interview on July 15.  Private equity firms invested about $2.9 billion across 112
deals in India during the quarter ended June, 45 percent more
than the in the same period a year ago, according to a study by
 Venture Intelligence , a research service. The funds are lured by
an average 8.4 percent economic growth in India over the past
five years.  The Aureos India Fund II plans to invest about 15 percent
of its capital in  Sri Lanka  and Bangladesh, according to a
statement. The fund will target Indian cities with populations
of less than 4 million people such as Ahmedabad, Surat,
Coimbatore, Chandigarh, Madurai, Kochi and Bhopal.  “We have identified a clear gap in the market in India’s
fast growing smaller cities and in emerging sectors such as
clinical research, logistics, telecom solutions, solar
technology, green energy and healthcare, all of which are
benefiting from the rapid growth and change within the Indian
economy,” Sivendran Vettivetpillai, chief executive at Aureos
Capital, said in the statement.  Aureos, which manages $1.3 billion, invests in 50 emerging
markets in Asia,  Africa  and  Latin America , according to the
statement. Africa accounts for half of its funds  under
management , while  Asia  represents about 35 percent and Latin
America the rest, Srinivas said.  Aureos, which invests in small to mid-cap businesses, was
spun off in 2001 from London-based CDC Group Plc, a U.K.
government-owned development fund founded more than 60 years ago
to invest in former British colonies. CDC continues to back
Aureos, Srinivas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Mumbai at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  