-- 
Darren Clarke Ends 20-Year Wait for British Open Golf Title, First Major

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-17T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/clarke-wins-british-open-by-three-shots-for-first-major-golf-championship.html
Darren Clarke’s long wait is finally
over. He has his British Open championship.  Northern Ireland ’s Clarke overcame challenges from
Americans  Dustin Johnson  and  Phil Mickelson  yesterday to win by
three shots at Royal St. George’s in Sandwich,  England . It was
his first major title and came in his 20th appearance at golf’s
oldest championship.  “It’s been a dream since I was a kid to win the Open, like
any kid’s dream is, and I’m able to do it,” Clarke said at a
news conference. “It just feels incredible, incredible right
now.”  Clarke shot even-par 70 to finish with a score of 5-under
275. The 42-year-old breaks Nick Price’s record for most
appearances at the Open before a first victory. Price won the
1994 title in his 15th try.  He’s also is the oldest player to win the  British Open 
since Roberto de Vicenzo, who was 44 when he won in 1967, and
the oldest major winner since 43-year-old Ben Crenshaw took the
title at the 1995  Masters Tournament .  Four-time major champ Mickelson, who’s never won the Open,
shot 68 and Johnson, playing in the final group with Clarke,
finished with a 72. Mickelson reached 6-under at one point,
though made four bogeys over the final eight holes to fall out
of contention.  “When I saw Darren wasn’t going to make a mistake, and he
played some great golf, I had to start trying to make birdies
and that’s when I ended up making a couple bogeys,” Mickelson
told reporters.  Northern Irish Success  Clarke is the third Northern Irishman to win in the last
six major championships after  Graeme McDowell  and Rory McIlroy
at the past two U.S. Opens. He’s also the sixth consecutive non-
American major winner, extending the longest run in history.  “We’ve been lucky,” he said. “To have three major
champions from such a little small place in a short period of
time, it’s just incredible.”  Clarke was playing in his 54th major tournament. The
victory will push him into the top 30 of the world ranking.  Clarke’s previous best result at the Open was a tie for
second at Royal Troon in 1997. That started a run of six top-10
finishes over his next 17 majors. Since then the closest he’d
come to winning a major was tying for 11th place at Troon in the
2004 Open.  Clarke earned 900,000 pounds ($1.45 million) for the
victory. He also earned a bonus of 2 million pounds from Dunlop
Sport, one of his sponsors, according to his agent Chubby Chandler.  Mickelson’s Move  Mickelson started quickly with three birdies over the first
six holes and then eagled the par-5 seventh hole to pull into a
tie with Clarke at 5-under.  Clarke, playing three groups behind, would regain the lead
at 7-under with his own eagle at No. 7. Mickelson then birdied
the 10th, but that was as close as the left-hander would get.  After his eagle, Clarke made nine straight pars though no
one was able to make a move on him. Johnson did birdie the 12th
to get into a tie at 5-under with Mickelson, who had bogeyed the
11th.  Mickelson then fell out of contention with bogeys at the
13th, 15th and 16th holes, while missing a birdie putt on 14.
Johnson also fell by the wayside when he hit his second shot out
of bounds on the 14th and took a double bogey to fall to 3-
under.  Putt Regret  “It was tough,” Johnson told reporters. “I played well
enough to get it done today but just didn’t hole the putts at
the right time.”  Clarke bogeyed his final two holes but it wasn’t enough to
prevent him for taking the Claret Jug.  Thomas Bjorn , the first-day leader, was the only other
player below par at 1-under. A trio of Americans -- Chad Campbell,  Rickie Fowler  and  Anthony Kim  -- were even-par.  Five-time champion  Tom Watson  finished 2-over par yesterday
and 6-over for the tournament. The 61-year-old also had a hole-
in-one two days ago on the sixth hole.  McIlroy, who was favorite coming in after setting 12
records while winning the  U.S. Open  last month, finished 7-over
for the tournament.  “It’s been a tough week for me,” the 22-year-old told
reporters. “I’m disappointed with the way I finished, but I’ll
just have to wait until next year to try and make a good run at
this tournament.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  