-- 
Darren Clarke’s Open Win Gives Northern Ireland Another Reason to Party

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-07-18T19:18:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/clarke-s-open-win-gives-northern-ireland-fans-yet-another-reason-to-party.html
Darren Clarke’s victory in the
British Open for his first major championship means  Northern
Ireland  can get ready for another party.  Clarke won by three shots yesterday at Royal St. George’s
in Sandwich,  England , withstanding final-round challenges from
Americans  Phil Mickelson  and  Dustin Johnson . The 42-year-old is
the third Northern Irish major champion in the last 13 months
after Graeme McDowell and Rory McIlroy captured the past two
U.S. Opens.  “They’re having parties all the time,” Clarke said at a
news conference as he sipped a Guinness beer. “Party for G-Mac
at Portrush and a party for Rory a couple of weeks ago and I’m
sure I’ll have another one this week.”  The final round of the Open was seen on Walt Disney Co.’s
ESPN in an average of 2.6 percent of homes in the top 56 U.S.
television markets, matching the rating in 2010, when Louis Oosthuizen was the winner.  Clarke is the oldest player to win the tournament since 44-
year-old Roberto De Vicenzo of  Argentina  in 1967, and the oldest
to capture a major since American Ben Crenshaw won the Masters
at 43 in 1995.  He hadn’t had much success at the tournament, with his best
finish a tie for second at Royal Troon in 1997 and only three
top-10 finishes. He was playing his 54th major and hadn’t
finished in the top 10 at any in 10 years.  Wife’s Death  Clarke has had his share of tough times off the course as
well. His wife, Heather, died of breast cancer in 2006, leaving
him to care for his two sons, Tyrone and Conor. He dedicated his
win to his boys, who he said were back in his hometown of
Portrush watching on television.  “In terms of what’s going through my heart, there’s
obviously somebody who is watching down from up above there and
I know she’d be very proud of me,” he said. “She’d probably be
saying, ‘I told you so.’”  Popular with his peers and fans, Clarke shared a quiet
moment after his victory with Mickelson, who has something in
common. Mickelson’s wife, Amy, is recovering from  breast cancer .  “He has turned into a good friend of mine through thick
and thin and he said some very, very kind words to me,” Clark
said, declining to discuss specifics. “And Amy is looking
fantastic as well.”  Clarke said he also got some advice last night from someone
who knows all about winning tournaments --  Tiger Woods , the 14-
time major winner who missed the Open because of injury, sent
him a text message.  Tiger’s Advice  “He was giving me a couple bits of advice, which was
brilliant,” he said, without disclosing any details. “Just
getting little bits of advice and stuff like that, made today
even a little bit easier than it otherwise might have been.”  In the U.S., the final round was seen on Walt Disney Co.’s
ESPN in an average of 2.6 percent of homes in the top 56
television markets, matching its rating for 2010, when  Louis
Oosthuizen  won the tournament.  With the Claret Jug in hand, Clarke said it’s time to start
the party. Northern Ireland has a population of 1.7 million and
is about the size of  Connecticut , the third-smallest U.S. state.  “We’re blessed to have obviously two fantastic players in
Rory and G-Mac and I’ve just come along, the old guy coming
along behind them,” Clarke said. “Northern Ireland is a very
small place and it’s a very close-knit community and everyone is
pleased for our sports guys that do well. I’m pleased to join
them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  