-- 
Clegg Calls for U.K. Press Plurality Amid Phone-Hacking Scandal

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 
2011-07-17T12:02:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/clegg-calls-for-u-k-press-plurality-amid-phone-hacking-scandal.html
U.K. Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  called on officials to examine rules on media ownership
after the phone-hacking crisis at News Corp. illustrated a lack
of accountability in current regulations.  “When you give one individual or a small number of people
a huge amount of power without proper accountability things go
wrong, and that’s what’s happened here,” Clegg told the BBC’s
Andrew Marr Show. “We have to look at the plurality rules to
make sure there’s proper plurality in the British press.”  Ed Miliband , leader of the opposition  Labour Party , called
today for  Rupert Murdoch ’s media empire to be broken up,
including The Sun, The Times and The Sunday Times newspapers and
Sky television. Miliband told the Observer newspaper that the
breadth of Murdoch’s ownership is “unhealthy because that
amount of power in one person’s hands has clearly led to abuses
of power within his organization.”  A cross-party Parliamentary panel is preparing to question
 News Corp. (NWSA)  Chief Executive Officer Murdoch and his son James,
who is deputy CEO, on July 19. Rebekah Brooks, who resigned last
week as CEO of News International, the publisher of News Corp.
newspapers in the U.K., will also appear. She may be questioned
separately as she is no longer a News International employee,
John Whittingdale, head of the committee, told the BBC.  News International placed advertisements in its own and
rival newspapers for a second day today apologizing for the
alleged phone hacking. Murdoch met on July 15 with the parents
of Milly Dowler, a murdered schoolgirl whose voicemails were
targeted by the News of the World newspaper in 2002.  News of the World  The turmoil has forced the resignation of Brooks and  Les Hinton , who was chairman of the company when the alleged phone
hacking occurred and stepped down as head of News Corp.’s Dow
Jones unit on July 15. News Corp. also closed the News of the
World after 168 years and which Brooks edited from 2000 to 2003.  The affair has also prompted News Corp. to abandon its bid
for full ownership of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , the
U.K.’s largest pay-TV provider. BSkyB will discuss the future of
its Chairman  James Murdoch  with investors, the Sunday Times
reported today, without saying where it got the information.  News Corp. also faces civil litigation in the U.S., and is
the subject of an inquiry by the FBI, which is examining whether
News of the World reporters targeted the phones of victims of
the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. Bloomberg LP, the parent of
Bloomberg News, competes with News Corp. units in providing
financial news and information.  ‘Major Crisis’  “This is a major crisis of public confidence in another
pillar of the establishment,” on a par with the parliamentary
expenses inquiry and turmoil in the banking industry, both of
which led to more-independent regulatory arrangements, Clegg
told the  BBC .  Miliband gained ground in a  ComRes poll  for the Independent
on Sunday, while Prime Minister  David Cameron  lost support.
Twenty-seven percent of respondents said Miliband was proving a
good leader of the Labour party, up 9 points from June, while
the assessment of Cameron’s leadership of the ruling
Conservatives fell 4 points to 33 percent. ComRes surveyed 2,009
adults from July 13 to July 14. A margin of error wasn’t given.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  