-- 
Clinton Urges Greeks to Pursue ‘Vital’ Reforms to Overcome Deficit Crisis

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-17T16:02:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/clinton-urges-greeks-to-stick-to-vital-reforms.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  praised Greece for its austerity measures, calling them
“vital first steps” and urging the country’s leaders to
continue efforts to resolve the country’s debt crisis.  “We know these were not easy decisions, they were acts of
leadership,” Clinton said today in Athens, where she appeared
with Greek Foreign Minister Stavros Lambrinidis. She said her
visit was meant “to demonstrate unequivocally the strong
support the  United States  has for Greece.”  “We stand by the people and government of Greece as you
put your country back on a path to economic stability and
prosperity,” Clinton said. “We have a lot riding on our
relationship together.”  Clinton is in Greece for a two-day visit to show support
for the government of Prime Minister  George Papandreou . European
leaders are seeking a solution for Greece as the debt crisis the
country touched off in 2009 threatened  Italy  this week. Euro-
area members will hold an emergency meeting July 25 to plan a
second rescue package for Greece.  Lambrinidis said the country will “come out of this
difficulty victorious.”  “Many on both sides of the Atlantic have bet on the
collapse of Greece and we have proved them wrong and we will
continue to prove them wrong,” the Greek minister said.  ‘Firm Financial Footing’  Clinton reiterated her message at a signing ceremony later
in the day at the Acropolis Museum, where she said the U.S.
would stand beside  Greece . “We are confident that the nation
that built the Parthenon, invented democracy and inspired the
world can rise to the challenge,” she said.  The two countries agreed that cultural exports to the U.S.
will only take place if the objects have been certified as legal
for export by Greece.  Clinton said the future “will not be pain free” for
Greece and that the price of inaction would have been even
higher. Legislation passed by the country to help solve the debt
crisis “will provide a firm financial footing on which Greece
will be able to attract businesses and create the jobs that are
essential for the Greek people,” Clinton said.  “The challenge will be to keep moving forward with the
same determination and commitment” to deliver reform that
drives economic growth, Clinton said. “While the payoff for
these sacrifices may not come quickly, it will come.”  American Influence  She praised the legislation for including measures to build
business confidence, such as elements to increase transparency,
streamline procedures and effectively enforce contracts.  Lambrinidis said that because of those measures Greece had
“regained in credibility” and those sacrifices had brought the
country “to the forefront of  job creation .”  Clinton said that the debt crisis did not pose a threat to
national security or the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
Then U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates said on June 10 that
NATO risked “collective military irrelevance” unless  Europe 
contributed more to the alliance’s operations.  “The NATO alliance is undergoing some very important
analysis about how we will continue to be the strongest military
and operational alliance in the world,” she said.  Clinton also meets today with President Karolos Papoulias
and Finance Minister and Deputy Prime Minister Evangelos Venizelos. Her stop in Greece is her second on a globe-spanning
12-day trip that will take her to  India , Indonesia,  Hong Kong 
and  China . She has already spent two days in  Turkey .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Athens at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  