-- 
Clinton Set to Cheer on U.S. Women’s Team in World Cup Final

-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 
2011-07-17T15:35:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/clinton-set-to-cheer-on-u-s-women-s-team-in-world-cup-final.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will be rooting for the U.S. women’s team as they face
off against Japan tonight in a bid to win a record third Women’s
World Cup soccer title.  “I am going to be watching” on television, Clinton told
Greek Prime Minister George Papandreou during a visit to Athens
today. “I’m so excited. I am so proud of the U.S. women.”  Clinton’s daughter Chelsea will be part of the official
delegation led by  Jill Biden , the wife of Vice President Joe Biden, in Frankfurt, Germany, to watch the final match.  “We have a really good cheering section and I’ve just got
the highest hopes that this great team, which has such
resilience, will be coming back and winning for the U.S.,”
Clinton said.  The U.S. reached the final four after having a player sent
off against  Brazil  in the quarterfinals and scoring a goal with
seconds remaining in extra time to tie the game and force a
penalty shootout, which it won 5-3. The game drew the largest
big-market audience for a tournament game in 12 years, according
to ESPN. The U.S. beat France 3-1 in the semi-final.  “The game that they played against Brazil, which Bill and
I watched on the Internet, was one of the best soccer games I’ve
ever seen,” Clinton said.  The U.S. last played for the title when it won its second
World Cup in 1999 on a penalty shootout against  China . Japan
joins China as the only Asian nations to reach the final of the
quadrennial  tournament .  Clinton’s stop in Greece is her second on a globe-spanning
12-day trip that will take her to India, Indonesia,  Hong Kong 
and China. She has already spent two days in Turkey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Athens  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  