-- 
Coburn of Oklahoma to Offer $9 Trillion Budget-Cut Plan to Spur Debt Talks

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 
2011-07-17T19:18:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/coburn-to-offer-9-trillion-budget-cut-plan-to-spur-debt-talks.html
Republican Senator  Tom Coburn  said
he will unveil a plan tomorrow that would cut $9 trillion from
the federal budget over the next 10 years in an effort to curb
spending and avoid a default on  U.S. debt .  While he said he doesn’t expect his plan to pass Congress,
it would offer a wide range of spending cuts and revenue
increases that could be used as the basis for bipartisan
negotiations on a budget compromise.  “We have $9 trillion worth of savings that are achievable
over the next ten years,” Coburn said on CBS’s “Face the
Nation” program. “Pick half of them. Half of them solve our
problems.”  With Washington deadlocked on a strategy to cut spending
and raise the nation’s borrowing limit before an Aug. 2
deadline, the Oklahoma Republican said he will offer a 10-year
plan that cuts defense by $1 trillion, makes changes to Social
Security and Medicare, and raises $1 trillion through changes in
the  tax code , among other things.  Some Republicans, including Senate Minority Whip  Jon Kyl  of
 Arizona , have resisted any talk of tax increases as part of a
budget deal.  “We should focus on the real problem, the spike in
spending, and not this phony problem of taxes,” Kyl said on
ABC’s “This Week” program.  Tax Loopholes  Yet Republican  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina 
said today he would consider closing tax loopholes “like the
ethanol subsidy” to boost revenue as part of a budget deal.  “I would be willing to close loopholes and put some of the
money on debt retirement, but I will only do that in the context
of a serious plan to balance the budget,” Graham said on CNN’s
“State of the Union.”  Coburn’s push to cut defense by $1 trillion over 10 years
is likely to draw opposition. President  Barack Obama  has called
for cutting military spending by $400 billion over 12 years,
while rejecting an earlier proposal for a $1 trillion cut as
excessive.  “I think we need to cut defense, but as commander in chief
I’ve got to make sure that we’re cutting it in a way that
recognizes we’re still in the middle of a war,” Obama said at a
July 15 news conference.  ‘Not Super Hard’  Coburn said a $1 trillion cut to defense over a decade “is
difficult, but it’s not super hard.”  Coburn’s plan also would cut almost $2 trillion in non-
defense discretionary spending over 10 years, while raising
about $1 trillion in new revenue by cutting or eliminating tax
breaks and loopholes by about 10 percent, according to a
congressional aide.  Coburn said his plan, if enacted in its entirety, would
save $1 trillion in interest payments over the next nine years.  The White House, meanwhile, is continuing to reach out to
lawmakers in both parties this weekend in search of a deficit-
cutting deal as the default deadline looms.  “I think there’s still time to get something big done,”
said Jack Lew, the White House director of the Office of
Management and Budget, on NBC’s “Meet the Press.”  “The question is, do we have a partner to work with? And I
hope the answer to that is yes,” Lew added.  No Alternative  Treasury Department officials continue to reject
suggestions they could prioritize payments and insist there are
no alternatives to raising the debt limit, a Treasury official
said today. About $90 billion in debt matures on Aug. 4 and more
than $30 billion in interest comes due Aug. 15, said the
official, who declined to be identified because the department’s
discussions aren’t public. Overall, more than $500 billion
matures in August.  White House spokesman  Dan Pfeiffer  said on Twitter that
President Barack Obama, Vice President  Joe Biden  and other White
House officials were discussing “various options” with
lawmakers throughout the day yesterday.  Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  is “keeping the
lines of communication open,” said his spokesman, Mike Steel.
But Steel couldn’t offer assurances that a deal will be reached
soon.  “Conversations have continued throughout the weekend, but
there is no news or progress to report,” Steel said by e-mail
today.  Fallback Plan  In the Senate, a fallback plan by Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  that allows the president to unilaterally raise the
debt limit is moving ahead. McConnell and Majority Leader  Harry Reid  this weekend are negotiating changes to his proposal, with
a goal of putting a measure before the Senate as early as
Wednesday, said a Senate Democratic aide.  The two are still discussing ways to alter McConnell’s
complex proposal, which would let the president raise the
ceiling on borrowing authority by $2.5 trillion by the end of
2012 with support of just over one-third of the members of each
chamber.  Coburn said today he is “unlikely” to support such a plan
because it doesn’t cut spending enough.  “A $2 trillion package will do nothing to reassure the
world economic community that we get it,” he said, adding any
deal must include at least $4 trillion of cuts.  Graham said he also would resist the McConnell-Reid stopgap
measure. He said on CNN he “doesn’t have any confidence” that
the proposal of the Senate leaders “is going to lead to the
solutions that we need.”  Tough Votes  McConnell wants the increase in the debt limit to occur in
three stages, forcing Democrats to take a series of tough votes
before next year’s elections.  Democrats are seeking to reduce the number of debt-limit
votes to two, and they are also pushing to include caps on
discretionary spending over the next two years, the aide said.
Such caps would help forestall repeats of the government
shutdown battle that dominated Congress for much of this year
for the remainder of Obama’s term.  McConnell and Reid are nearing agreement on a new joint
congressional committee on deficit reduction that would be
included in the plan, the aide said. The bipartisan panel would
have eight or 12 members, and would make recommendations as
early as next year on a broad plan to curb record-high deficits.
The plan it produces that would be protected from a Senate
filibuster and couldn’t be amended, protections similar to those
offered a commission that has recommended military base
closures, the aide said.  While the two Senate leaders are continuing to discuss a
package of $1 trillion to $1.5 trillion in spending cuts that
could be attached to the legislation, it is unclear whether the
package will be agreed to when the measure is introduced, the
aide said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 