-- 
Contagion in Three Forms Now Has Grip on Europe: Simon Johnson

-- B y   S i m o n   J o h n s o n
-- 
2011-07-17T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/contagion-in-three-forms-now-has-grip-on-europe-simon-johnson.html
There are three types of contagion
in a financial crisis, when the potential collapse of a firm,
bank or country threatens to spiral out of control. The European
Union today has all three.  The first type is purely psychological -- the panic of herd
behavior. The second comes from thinking through the real
effects that a collapse would have, as the potential spillovers
dawn on people. The third, and most devastating, emerges when
smart investors realize that their assumptions -- based on the
pronouncements of policy makers -- are all wrong and need to be
tossed overboard.  A common characteristic of the panic phase is that the
bottom drops out of economic forecasts, taking with them the
perceived ability of companies or countries to pay their debts.
The corollary of this is that estimates of losses soar to once-
unimagined levels. Some analysts now suggest that  Greece  might
have to impose a haircut -- or loss -- of as much as 80 percent
on creditors. This is up dramatically from the recent market
view that 40 percent losses might be needed in a restructuring.  Emotions are taking over and the abyss looks bottomless, as
it did for  Russia  in 1998 or  Argentina  in 2002. Countries,
unlike companies, don’t go out of business. But in its panic,
the herd tends to forget that.  Typically, in the second type of contagion, the spillover
crosses borders because of trade. In the early 1930s, for
example, major countries adopted fiscal policies that reduced
their demand for other nations’ exports and pushed them toward
recession. Some of this spillover also happened during the
financial crisis of late 2008, when shrinking demand in the U.S.
and  Europe  rippled through to Asia. Fortunately, most Asian
countries were well prepared; their governments had modest debt
and didn’t need to turn to fiscal austerity to meet their
obligations.  Modest Role  While Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  play only a modest role
in trade within the EU, they are tied into the EU’s financial
and banking system. This is reminiscent of what we saw in Asia
during 1997-1998. As international banks experienced or expected
losses in  Thailand  after its  currency devaluation , they became
more cautious about lending to Malaysia and  Indonesia . This
restricted credit, pushed up interest rates and stifled the
commercial paper market, an important source of funding for
Indonesian corporate debt. It’s worth noting that financial
linkages are more extensive within the EU today than they were
across  Asia  during 1997-1998.  The third type of contagion is the scariest. When investors
start believing that an important set of people have changed
their minds about providing support to troubled firms or
countries, a lot of assets need to be repriced.  Plausible Explanation  This is the most plausible explanation of what happened
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the
near-failure of American International Group Inc. in September
2008. When the  Federal Reserve  made a loan to AIG that took
priority over other creditors, the value of AIG’s senior debt
fell 40 percent. The implication was clear: Morgan Stanley,
Merrill Lynch and Goldman Sachs could either go the Lehman way
or the AIG way. The same was true of money market mutual funds.
It was time to get out.  The Germans now want to end the  moral hazard  of lending to
weak euro-zone governments and banks, thus encouraging the
belief that richer and better-run countries will provide the
necessary support to prevent creditor losses. The trouble is, if
you think that the problems are deeper, and that countries with
independent fiscal policies can’t co-exist with a common
currency, then  Germany  and other fiscally conservative nations
will have to bail out their weaker neighbors again.  Persuading the EU  This isn’t about the policy preferences of the
 International Monetary Fund , the U.S. or the Group of 20. This
is about what Germany is willing to do and what it can persuade
its EU partners to go along with. Ultimately, German politicians
can throw up their hands and say, bluntly: If you don’t like our
proposals, you can do something else, but pay for it yourself.  Either way, the result is increasing risk of a debt default
and losses for creditors. We’ll see the consequences as  interest
rates  for troubled countries rise and the liquidity in their
government bond markets dries up.  Exiting the moral hazard trade is a good idea. But there is
no transition plan -- just a series of improvisations, gut
reactions and continual renegotiations. There isn’t yet anything
close to the political will to definitively end things with a
comprehensive solution that tells you who will restructure and
who will get unlimited bailouts. This contagion will spread,
until senior euro-zone leadership decides -- once and for all --
who is to be saved and on what terms.  (Simon Johnson, who served as chief economist at the
 International Monetary Fund  in 2007 and 2008, and is now a
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  professor and a senior
fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, is
a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more Bloomberg View columns.  To contact the author of this column:
 Simon Johnson  at  sjohnson@mit.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 