-- 
Brent Crude Oil Falls on Concern Europe Debt Crisis Will Slow Fuel Demand

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-07-18T05:19:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/crude-oil-futures-advance-for-a-second-day-in-new-york-climbing-0-2-.html
Brent crude  declined in  London  as
investors bet that  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis may slow the
economy and crimp fuel demand. Futures in New York swung between
gains and losses.  Brent slipped as much as 0.4 percent before European
leaders hold a special summit this week after eight of the
region’s banks failed stress tests. Concern the crisis is
spreading pushed the euro lower against the dollar, limiting the
appeal of commodities priced in the U.S. currency. Tropical
Storm Bret formed north of the Bahamas as the second cyclone of
the  Atlantic hurricane season .  “Our global view is that we’ve hit a temporary patch of
weakness in demand growth and in the next few months we expect
that to turn around, notwithstanding some sort of big financial
event or some further blow-up of this sovereign debt
situation,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist
at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who predicts oil
in New York will average $113 a barrel in the third quarter.  Brent oil for September settlement fell as much as 51 cents
to $116.75 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange, and was at $117.03 at 3:14 p.m. Sydney time. The
contract dropped 0.4 percent last week. Prices are 55 percent
higher the past year.  Crude for August delivery was at $97.22 a barrel, down 2
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . Prices have fluctuated today, climbing as much as 0.5
percent and slipping as much as 0.3 percent. Futures increased
1.1 percent last week and are 27 percent higher the past year.  Candlestick Chart  Oil in New York swung between gains and losses today
following an “inside day” formation on its candlestick chart,
a sign investors are unsure where short-term prices are headed,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This occurred after
futures on July 15 failed to exceed the previous day’s high and
fell less than the low.  Net-long positions, or bets on rising prices, in crude oil
advanced 2 percent to 168,833 in the seven days ended July 12,
according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report.  Oil in  New York  may continue to face technical resistance
around $98 a barrel, near a one-year Fibonacci retracement level
and the 50-day moving average, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A breach of technical resistance usually means the
market will advance further.  Brent Premium  Brent’s losses outpaced U.S. futures today, narrowing the
difference between the front-month European benchmark contract
and New York prices to a premium of $19.45 a barrel, compared
with the record settlement of $22.63 on July 14.  Tropical storm Bret, located about 95 miles (150
kilometers) northwest of Great Abaco Island, has sustained winds
of almost 40 miles per hour with some higher gusts, the  U.S.
National Hurricane Center  said in an advisory at 11 p.m. Miami
time yesterday. Force winds are extending outward up to 35 miles
from the center, it said.  Alyeska Pipeline Service Co. restarted the Trans Alaska
Pipeline yesterday after maintenance on two of the line’s
pumping stations, Spokeswoman Michelle Egan said in an e-mail.
The Anchorage, Alaska-based company halted operations south of
 Prudhoe Bay  on July 16 to replace valves at Pump Station 4 and
to straighten a pipe at Pump Station 11, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  