-- 
Ditching Euro No Option for Greeks

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s
-- 
2011-07-18T16:40:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/ditching-euro-no-option-for-greeks-enduring-history-of-hardship.html
Minos Kleidis is the Greek the
world’s television cameras don’t see.  When police and protesters clashed in central  Athens  on
June 28, Kleidis and half a dozen of his workers rushed to pack
up chairs and tables and lock themselves into the restaurant
they manage on Syntagma Square. Kleidis says the 48 hours of
rioting caused 20,000 euros ($28,224) of damage, including
smashed marble, broken pipes and burnt umbrellas.  “It takes a week to make that sort of money,” Kleidis,
33, said. “The exasperation, disappointment and worry about our
country are justified. The violence isn’t.”  Thirty years after Greece became a member of what’s now the
European Union and more than a decade after it swapped the
drachma, one of the world’s oldest currencies, for the euro,
Greeks like Kleidis are on the frontline of the government’s
attempts to prevent the region’s first debt default.  As Athenians tally the cost of last month’s riots, most
Greeks acknowledge financial stability and the cost of keeping
the euro comes with more sacrifice for a country where parents
and grandparents endured occupation by the Nazis, famine,
hyperinflation, civil war and then a military dictatorship.  “The challenge is to create a healthy and more productive
economy,” said Riccardo Barbieri, the London-based chief
European economist at Mizuho International Plc, who wrote
research reports on Greece in the four years before the nation
adopted the euro in 2001. “This is about a country changing its
skin. No one can be happy with paying more taxes, having their
salary cut, losing their jobs or risking losing their jobs.”  Violent Protests  Rioters caused 800,000 euros in damage to state property in
Athens during the two days of violence in June as Prime Minister
 George Papandreou  battled for political survival in parliament.  The 59-year-old premier won a confidence vote and then
backing for a new 78 billion-euro, five-year package of budget
cuts and state asset sales on those same days to secure further
international aid by stemming defections from members of his
Pasok party.  One lawmaker, Vasso Papandreou, extended support by saying
she was “choosing the knife over the pistol.”  Elsa Papadimitriou, 69, a lawmaker for the opposition New
Democracy party for 20 years, defied her party’s line and
supported the package, calling her decision “a tragic political
dilemma” as the EU and International Monetary Fund held back
approval of a 12 billion-euro payment needed to pay bond
redemptions in August until passage of the austerity law.  ‘Economic Suicide’  “The medium-term plan is a solution, whether good or bad
shall be seen, but imperative,” Papadimitriou said on June 29
as hooded youths attacked riot police outside the parliament
building and tear gas engulfed the square. “Fiscal suffocation
and economic suicide are not an alternative.”  While the majority of  Greece ’s 11 million people agree
something has to be done, Papandreou is paying for that
realization with a slump in voter support.  A survey of 1,014 people by Marc SA for  Ethnos  newspaper
showed 70 percent saying the government must implement the cuts.
Half of them also wanted the financial package revised; of that
number 57 percent said the measures should be applied even if
attempts at revising them failed. The margin of error is 2.5
percentage points.  Pasok Behind  At the same time, the poll, conducted June 21-23, showed
that the Pasok party was preferred by 20 percent of voters,
trailing New Democracy with 21.4 percent. In a survey for
television channel Skai and newspaper Kathimerini last week,
Pasok stood at 26.5 percent and  New Democracy  on 32.5 percent.  Papandreou’s approval rating was 28 percent, the lowest,
while New Democracy leader Antonis Samaras scored 35 percent.
Twenty-nine percent believed Samaras was best suited for
premier, compared with 22 percent for Papandreou. Forty-six
percent said neither man was right for the job.  When Papandreou was elected in October 2009, his party won
44 percent of the vote.  Papandreou’s challenge is to convince Greeks his measures
will work when trust in politicians is at the lowest since
democracy was restored after seven years of military rule in
1974. Unemployment in Greece is set to average 14.5 percent this
year and the economy is shrinking 3.8 percent, the third year of
contraction.  Cost Legacy  Cost controls “should have happened in 1991, instead of us
going to a government office and seeing 14 people do a job
needed only by three,” said Angeliki Papadopoulos, 48, who
sells cigarettes and newspapers at a kiosk near Syntagma Square.  Spending cuts have left hospitals without supplies and
higher transit fares sparked a “won’t-pay” initiative that has
evolved into a “we don’t pay; we don’t owe; we don’t sell”
movement that drew as many as 50,000 Greeks to rally outside
parliament on June 5.  Even as protests swelled in central Athens, a Kapa Research
poll of 634 people in the square and another 1,208 nationwide
underlined the divisions. Eight in 10 of those in the square
said Papandreou’s plans should be rejected and elections held.
That number fell to 48 percent nationwide.  About half of the protesters at the square said Greece’s
membership in the EU is a negative, a figure that jars with the
80 percent in the national sample that say it’s a positive. Only
16 percent nationwide saw EU membership as negative.  Point to Prove  Papandreou, whose father, Andreas, founded Pasok 37 years
ago after the military junta, also needs to show his fellow euro
members his austerity plan can move quickly enough.  After 12 months of wage and pension reductions and tax
increases that were a condition of the first package of 110
billion euros of rescue loans, Greece’s budget deficit is three
times greater than the EU limit of 3 percent of gross domestic
product.  Without new measures, the country’s debt will reach 166
percent of GDP next year, the European Commission said on May
13. And in early June, the EU,  European Central Bank  and the IMF
said flagging government resolve to overhaul the  Greek economy 
threatened to leave the fiscal deficit entrenched at the
unsustainable level of 10 percent of GDP.  “There is no question that in the first year of the
program had Greece made a stronger effort, we wouldn’t be here
now,” said Barbieri at Mizuho. “Greece has put at risk itself
and the whole of economic and monetary union.”  Credit-rating downgrades and failures to improve tax
collection have spurred borrowing costs to records for Greece,
forcing the EU and IMF to craft a second aid package to shield
the country for another three years.  Bonds Slump  Bonds of debt-strapped euro nations slumped last month and
officials in the U.S. and  China  warned that the euro area’s
failure to restore confidence threatened the world economy.  The yield on Greece’s two-year bond topped 30 percent for
the first time on June 16 after two members of Papandreou’s
parliamentary group resigned, threatening his majority in the
house. The cost of insuring Greek debt in the credit-default
swap market soared to an all-time high.  Greek bank deposits fell by the most in more than a year in
May as speculation reignited that the government would default
on its sovereign debt and leave the single currency.  A return to the drachma is advocated by academics,
including Harvard University professor  Martin Feldstein  and
Nobel Laureate Paul Krugman, as the best way to restore
competitiveness. Such a step has been ruled out by EU and Greek
officials.  Not Drachmas  “Going back to the drachma would only make their problems
worse,” said Miranda Xafa, senior investment strategist at
Geneva-based IJPartners and former IMF board member for Greece.
“It would certainly not solve the debt problem because Greece’s
debts are denominated in euros, not drachmas. Devaluation would
make the country instantly insolvent.”  A “vicious circle” of drachma devaluations and inflation
in the 1980s “not only failed to improve competitiveness but
also eroded the value of peoples’ savings,” she said. “That’s
why Greeks strongly supported euro adoption.”  Invaded first by Mussolini’s  Italy  and then by  Nazi Germany 
during World War II, Greeks suffered hyperinflation and a famine
under German occupation. At the end of 1943, prices for staples
were rising at a rate of 234 percent.  More than 500,000 Greeks, or 7 percent of the population,
died between October 1940 and October 1944, 260,000 of them from
hunger and malnutrition. A  Time magazine  news report in 1942
labeled Greece “the hungriest country,” with bread costing $15
a loaf. By 1946, the country had plunged into civil war with
communists backed by Yugoslavia, Bulgaria and Albania fighting
government forces supported by the U.S. and Britain.  Escaping Hardship  Most citizens saw membership of the EU in 1981 and the euro
20 years later as an escape from the political and economic
instability that blighted its history. Greeks had a higher-than-
average percentage of support for the euro, at 72 percent,
before the currency was even introduced, said  Yiannis Mavris , a
political scientist and head of polling company Public Issue SA.  At first, the country was considered unfit to join, with an
inflation rate triple the EU average, a bloated  budget deficit ,
and a currency so unstable that the Bank of Greece had to spend
$2.5 billion propping it up.  To bring  interest rates  in line with those of the  euro
zone , the central bank reduced the cost of borrowing nine times
in 2000 to 4.75 percent, less than half the level at the start
of the year. It also changed rules on banks that allowed Greeks
to buy homes rather than inherit them for the first time in
generations.  First Cash  On Jan. 1, 2002, the country was the first to get newly
printed euro cash, an hour ahead of the rest of western  Europe 
when then-Prime Minister Costas Simitis withdrew notes from an
automated teller machine in Athens.  “The drachma symbolized a different country, a Balkan
country,” Kleidis said in an interview at his restaurant. “The
euro defined Greece and the Greeks with other EU countries. The
euro made us part of western Europe.”  Even the  Communist Party of Greece , whose headquarters is
still dominated by portraits of Bolshevik leader  Vladimir Lenin ,
says keeping the euro is a good idea, while it opposes state
asset sales and the austerity measures.  “A solution outside the euro and return to the drachma in
the current conditions is catastrophic,” said Aleka Papariga,
leader of the Greek Communist Party, during an interview in May
on Antenna TV.  A May 22 survey by  Public Issue  showed that two-thirds of
Greeks rejected the idea of abandoning the euro and only 16
percent were in favor of returning to the drachma. Overall
acceptance of the euro stood at 58 percent, and was
significantly higher among pensioners and housewives.  Kleidis says he’s concerned about what the future may
bring.  “All I hear is that the measures will just delay
bankruptcy, not avoid it,” he said. “We Greeks aren’t very
good at managing finances.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis at   mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  