-- 
Egyptian Shares Advance on Cabinet Reshuffle; Persian Gulf Stocks Retreat

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-07-17T15:33:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/dubai-shares-drop-for-second-day-on-euro-u-s-deficit-crises-teva-falls.html
Egypt ’s shares rose the most in more
than three months as the Arab country reshuffles its cabinet to
placate protesters demanding faster change five months after a
revolt ousted the president.  Commercial International Bank, the country’s biggest
publicly-traded lender, jumped 3.7 percent. Talaat Moustafa
Group Holding gained the most since May. The benchmark  EGX 30
Index (EGX30)  advanced 3.3 percent, the most since March 27, to 5,263.30
at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. Dubai’s benchmark measure fell
for a second day and Israel’s TA-25 Index lost less than 0.1
percent.  “Investors are anticipating the cabinet reshuffle will
calm the protests down,” said Tamer Nigm, head of sales and
trading at Cairo-based Watheeqa Securities Brokerage. “But the
market is trading at very low volumes, so the situation remains
volatile.” About 93 million shares traded on the Egyptian
Exchange today compared with a daily average of 100 million
shares since trading resumed on March 23 after a near two-month
suspension amid the unrest.  Protesters gathered in Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  and other
cities for a tenth day to demand the government speed up
political and economic changes and trials of former officials
under ex-President  Hosni Mubarak  for alleged corruption and
killing of protesters. Hazem El Beblawi said today he has been
appointed finance minister and deputy prime minister.  Agility Retreats  Commercial International Bank climbed the most this month
to 27.76 Egyptian pounds. Talaat Moustafa jumped 6.3 percent to
4.71 pounds after  Al Mal  reported the company expects sales at
its Madinaty project on the outskirts of Cairo to reach 27.5
billion pounds ($4.6 billion) by year-end.  In the  Persian Gulf , Dubai shares fell amid investors
concern the debt crisis in  Europe  may spread and that political
bickering in the U.S. may jeopardize the nation’s credit rating.
The benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  slipped 0.2 percent to 1,545.02
at the close in the emirate.  “The DFM is struggling to get out of negative territory
due to very weak liquidity and confidence,” said Tariq Qaqish,
deputy head of asset management at Al Mal Capital PSC in Dubai.
“In addition to global uncertainty pertaining to the U.S. debt
ceiling and the EU struggling members, many investors believe
that summer time and Ramadan translates into weaker liquidity.”
Ramadan, the month when Muslims fast from dawn to dusk, falls in
August this year.  Kuwait’s gauge declined 1.6 percent, the most since March.
Agility tumbled 6 percent, the most since June 9, to 315 fils.
The Kuwaiti storage and transport company accused of overbilling
the American military said after the market closed the 11th  U.S.
Court of Appeals  on July 12 declined the company’s request to
review a District Court ruling.  Teva Drops  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200) , which tracks the biggest 200
companies in the Gulf region, fell 0.6 percent and Saudi
Arabia’s Tadawul All Share Index retreated 1 percent. Bahrain’s
BB All Share Index lost 0.2 percent, Oman’s MSM 30 Index dropped
0.1 percent and Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  was little changed.  Abu Dhabi ’s
gauge rose 0.3 percent.  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. led declines in Israel,
losing 2.6 percent to 165 shekels. A U.S. district court found
the world’s largest generic drugmaker infringed Amgen Inc.
patents relating to human G-CSF.  The yield on Israel’s benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit
bond due January 2020 fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 4.98 percent. The shekel weakened 0.4 percent to
3.4380 against the dollar on July 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  