-- 
Germany Says It's Confident EU to Reach Agreement on Second Greek Bailout

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-07-18T12:04:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/eu-summit-looms-to-snap-debt-crisis-deadlock-as-contagion-threat-persists.html
Germany  said it’s confident that
European leaders will reach agreement on funding a second Greek
bailout at a July 21 summit, as investors sell Spanish and
Italian bonds on concern that the crisis is spreading.  “We must master this challenge,” Steffen Seibert,
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, said in Berlin
today. “The way the chancellor sees it, the specific meeting
this Thursday is about agreeing precisely on the main points of
a new program for Greece, with all relevant details.”  European leaders plan to meet for the second time in a
month to revamp their debt crisis-fighting strategy, aiming to
break a deadlock that has spooked investors and prompted the
 International Monetary Fund  to warn of contagion. European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated opposition
to any Greek debt restructuring in comments published yesterday.  European Union President Herman van Rompuy last week asked
government chiefs to meet on July 21 in Brussels to discuss
“the financial stability of the euro area as a whole and the
future financing of the Greek program.” Among topics for the
talks is a potential overhaul of the 440-billion euro ($618
billion) rescue fund to enable Greece to better pay its bills.  Italian and Spanish bond yields surged to euro-era records
today and yields on two-year Greek debt also reached the highest
since the 17-nation single currency’s debut. Yields on 10-year
Italian bonds increased 25 basis points to 6.021 percent as of
12:34 p.m. in  London , the highest level since 1997. The cost of
insuring against default on European sovereign debt, including
bonds sold by Greece, Ireland,  Italy ,  Portugal  and  France , rose
to records.  Merkel has stoked uncertainty by declining to confirm she
will attend the summit amid discord among policy makers over her
demand to make bondholders share the burden of the next Greek
rescue.  Germany Shifts  German officials signaled a shift today, with Finance
Ministry spokesman Martin Kotthaus saying Germany is
“optimistic and positive that we’ll have a package for Thursday
that will secure Greece’s debt sustainability in the long
term.” Merkel “will always attend” if a summit happens,
Seibert said.  “This crisis has clearly taken on more systemic risk,”
said Laurent Bilke, head of interest rates strategy for  Europe 
at Nomura International Plc in London and a former European
Central Bank economist. “It’s crucial at the current juncture
for policy makers to get the right things done.”  Lifeline for Greece  A summit was originally mulled for last week before being
postponed amid German fears it would backfire without a pact on
how the private sector can bear some of Greece’s euro debt
burden. This week’s meeting takes place just over a year since
leaders organized a 110-billion euro lifeline for Greece.  Germany’s government says no extra aid is possible without
bondholders being forced to stay exposed to Greek debt. It has
incurred the ECB’s wrath by pushing for a debt swap.  “The more we get private investors voluntarily involved
now, the less likely we will have to take further steps,”
Merkel said in an ARD television interview yesterday. “Of
course we have to be prepared, but the most important thing is
that  Greece  has to do its homework and private creditors are
brought into the fold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  