-- 
Euro Declines on Debt Turmoil Before Summit; Swiss Franc Touches Records

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-07-18T21:07:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/euro-falls-before-summit-as-debt-concern-mounts.html
The euro touched a record low versus
the Swiss franc and slid the most in almost a week against the
dollar on concern European leaders won’t take concrete steps to
contain the region’s debt crisis at a summit in three days.  The franc reached an all-time high versus the dollar on
demand for safety after European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet repeated his opposition to any restructuring of
Greek debt. Italian and Spanish bond yields surged to euro-era
records. The yen rallied against most of its major peers and
gold surged to a new high. Sweden’s krona dropped to a seven-
month low against the euro on speculation  Europe ’s debt turmoil
will curb the Scandinavian nation’s growth.  “The euro’s drop seems to still all be predicated on the
concern over the euro-zone debt crisis,” said Carl Forcheski, a
director on the corporate currency sales desk at Societe
Generale SA in New York. “Italian bond yields have traded
higher. It’s peripheral euro-zone crisis, fears of contagion.”  The euro dropped as much as 1 percent to $1.4014 in the
biggest intraday decline since July 12 before trading at $1.4112
at 5 p.m. in New York, compared with $1.4157 on July 15. The
shared currency slid 0.4 percent to 111.55 yen and was unchanged
at 1.1539 Swiss francs after tumbling to a record low 1.1374.
The franc was 0.3 percent weaker against the dollar at 81.76
centimes after reaching 80.33, the strongest on record. The
dollar dropped 0.1 percent to 79.04 yen.  Gold for immediate delivery gained as much as 1.1 percent
to $1,607.90 an ounce. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased
0.8 percent.  Brussels Summit  Euro-area leaders will meet in Brussels on July 21 to
discuss the “financial stability” of the region, European
Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said in an e-mailed statement
July 15.  The second meeting of European leaders in a month follows a
worsening of the crisis that drove bond yields to euro-era
records for Europe’s most debt-laden nations.  Italian 10-year bond yields rose as much as 27 basis
points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 6.027 percent today, the
highest level since 1997 and surpassing last week’s 6.016
percent peak. Spanish 10-year yields increased as much as 30
basis points to 6.368 percent, also the highest since 1997.  “Now that Spain and  Italy  are brought into the crisis,
Europe’s problem is much bigger than the risk of a Greek  credit
event ,”  Lena Komileva , head of Group of 10 strategy at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co. in  London , said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt. “As
long as Europe lacks a pro-growth strategy and peripheral
governments continue to struggle finding themselves sustainable
rates levels, the solvency crisis will spread.”  Euro Bets   Futures traders cut bets that the 17-nation euro will
strengthen versus the dollar to the least since January as of
July 12, according to data from the Washington-based Commodity
Futures Trading Commission published July 15.  The franc earlier strengthened against the euro even after
the  Swiss National Bank  highlighted last week its ability to
resume sales of the currency to stem gains that threaten
overseas sales at companies including Zurich-based ABB Ltd., the
world’s largest maker of power-transmission gear.  Strategists boosted their fourth-quarter median forecasts
for the franc against the dollar by the most of 51 pairs tracked
by Bloomberg.  Outlook for Franc  “The Swiss franc is going to continue to hold and break
new records for a while,” said  John Doyle , a strategist at the
currency trader Tempus Consulting Inc. in  Washington . “It may
get down to 80 versus the dollar, and at that point we may need
to re-evaluate.”  Trichet said in the transcript of an interview with the
Financial Times Deutschland that was released yesterday by the
Frankfurt-based central bank that the euro is not in danger and
remains “a highly credible currency.” Trichet reiterated that
the ECB won’t accept as collateral bonds from a nation that
defaults.  “If a country defaults, we can no longer accept as normal
eligible collateral defaulted bonds issued by the government of
that country,” Trichet said.  Sweden’s krona was weaker against all 16 of its major peers
tracked by Bloomberg except  South Africa ’s rand amid speculation
the debt crisis will cause growth to slow and dampen the
prospects for future central bank interest rate increases.  The krona slid as much as 1 percent to 9.2789 per euro, the
weakest level since Nov. 29, and depreciated 1 percent to 6.5549
versus the dollar. The rand slid 1.3 percent to 6.9748 against
the dollar on concern Europe’s debt crisis will sap demand for
emerging-market assets.  Dollar Index  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index advanced on
demand for a refuge as U.S. politicians continued to negotiate
an agreement to increase the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling. The
gauge of the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners rose 0.3 percent to 75.36.  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said
Republican leaders have ruled out the possibility of defaulting
on the nation’s financial commitments.  “There’s no plausible way to run the country” for an
extended period without raising the debt ceiling, Geithner told
CNBC in an interview today. “That’s why you’ve seen the
leadership of the  Republican Party  take that option off the
table, take default off the table.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  will push a revised budget plan this week aimed at
allowing a debt-limit increase needed to avoid a government
default as President Barack Obama presses for action in time for
an Aug. 2 deadline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  