-- 
Brooks Is Arrested as Murdoch Makes Fresh Apology Amid Phone-Hacking Probe

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 
2011-07-17T20:12:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/ex-news-corp-executive-brooks-is-arrested-in-london-phone-hacking-probe.html
Former News of the World editor
Rebekah Brooks was arrested today by police investigating phone
hacking at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Sunday tabloid.  Brooks, 43, went to a London police station voluntarily by
appointment, her spokesman  David Wilson  said in a phone
interview. Brooks is the most senior former News Corp. employee
detained in the probe, which two days ago resulted in her
stepping down as chief executive officer of News International.  “Undoubtedly she should have been arrested,” said Mark 
Lewis, a lawyer for victims of phone-hacking including the 
parents of murdered schoolgirl Milly Dowler. “She was editor of 
the newspaper at the time that Milly Dowler was abducted and 
killed. The police undoubtedly have to ask her questions about 
what happened and what she knew or doesn’t know.”  The revelation that News of the World reporters in 2002
deleted messages from Dowler’s voice-mail turned phone-hacking
into a national scandal that led to the closure of the tabloid
and the end of  News Corp. (NWS) ’s bid for  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc. (BSY)  Chairman and CEO Rupert Murdoch, his son James, News
Corp.’s deputy chief operating officer, and Brooks are scheduled
to testify at a U.K. Parliament hearing on July 19.  Stephenson Resignation  Hours after the arrest, Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Paul Stephenson announced his resignation over speculation about
his force’s links with another former journalist at the tabloid.
Neil Wallis, a former editor at the paper who was arrested last
week, had been a paid communications consultant for the police
in 2009 and 2010.  A News Corp. spokeswoman reiterated that the company’s
intention to fully cooperate with the police.  Brooks “has nothing to hide and she was very happy to give
evidence, but today’s actions have changed the ballpark,”
Wilson said. Brooks’s lawyers will be in discussions with the
parliamentary committee whether it will still be appropriate for
her to attend, he said.  News Corp.’s independent directors are holding frequent
phone conversations among themselves to evaluate the situation,
said a person with direct knowledge of the matter, asking not to
be identified because the discussions are private. These
directors include Rod Eddington, a former CEO of British
Airways;  Tom Perkins , partner in  Menlo Park , California-based
venture firm Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; and Georgetown
University law professor Viet Dinh, who is author of the Patriot
Act.  News Corp. Committee  News Corp. will take over from News International the
committee that has been set up to work with police over the
scandal, people with knowledge of the matter said.  Simon Greenberg , corporate affairs director at News
International, and General Manager Will Lewis will be employed
full time by the management and standards committee, which will
report to  Joel Klein , Murdoch’s top adviser, and Viet Dinh on
behalf of News Corp.’s independent directors, the people said.  Some people close to the Murdoch family and News Corp.’s
directors think it would make sense for  Rupert Murdoch  to
relinquish his job as chief executive officer and stay on as
chairman. Although a leadership change hasn’t been formally
discussed by the board, the situation is fluid and everything is
possible, one of the people said last week, who wouldn’t be
identified because the matter isn’t public.  “He has too much power over British public life,”
Opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  told the Observer
newspaper today, calling for a breakup of the 80-year-old’s
media empire. “We’ve got to look at the situation whereby one
person can own more than 20 percent of the newspaper market, the
Sky platform and Sky News. I think it’s unhealthy.”  U.S. Probe  Under the headline “Putting right what’s gone wrong,”
News International put out advertisements in U.K. national
papers, saying it’s the company’s obligation to provide full
cooperation with the police and compensation for those affected.
The publisher is “committed to change” and said “apologising
for our mistakes and fixing them are only the first steps.  In the U.S., Democratic Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois ,
the assistant majority leader, today called for a congressional
probe into the affair.  ‘‘There are questions about whether the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act has been violated by Rupert Murdoch and his news
empire,’’ Durbin said on NBC’s ‘‘Meet the Press’’ program.  Hinton Resignation  Brooks edited the News of the World and then The Sun before
being promoted in 2009 to CEO of News International, the
publisher of News Corp.’s British titles. She stepped down on
July 15, the same day as  Les Hinton  resigned as head of News
Corp.’s Dow Jones unit.  About $4.4 billion in market value has been wiped off News
Corp.’s Class A shares, and 2.5 billion pounds off BSkyB, since
the  Guardian newspaper  reported on July 4 that the News of the
World in 2002 hacked into Dowler’s voice mails and deleted
messages.  U.K. politicians today questioned whether Brooks’s arrest
might interfere with the Parliament’s Culture, Media and Sport
committee hearing.  ‘‘This makes me wonder whether this is some ruse to avoid
answering questions on Tuesday,”  Chris Bryant , an opposition
Labour lawmaker, told Sky News. “I don’t want to over stress
that argument, but it is unusual to be arrested on a Sunday by
appointment.”  ‘Level of Knowledge’  Niri Shan, a lawyer at Taylor Wessing LLP, said that she
may not even attend the hearing.  “If she does appear, her lawyers will advise her not to
answer questions that might damage her defense,” Shan said in
an e-mail. “All the questions will be directed to her level of
knowledge. That’s going to be a key part of any case against
her, and a key part of any successful defense.”  Police said in an e-mailed statement the arrest was part of
their probe into phone hacking and an investigation into whether
officers were paid for information.  Brooks told lawmakers at a 2003 committee hearing that “we
have paid the police for information in the past.” The
committee wrote in its report that Hinton, then chairman of News
International, later told them Brooks had since told him she had
“not authorized payments to police.”  “Personally I think she should have been arrested in 2003
when she said she had paid police officers for information,”
Bryant told Sky today.  Stephenson said in a televised  statement  today that he
intended to resign because “of the ongoing speculation and
accusations relating to the Met’s links with News International
at a senior level and in particular in relation to Mr Neil
Wallis,” a former editor at the News of the World.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  