-- 
Fed’s Recovery Forecast Buoyed by Dudley Expecting Dollar-Driven Exports

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 
2011-07-18T10:13:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/fed-s-recovery-forecast-buoyed-by-dudley-expecting-dollar-driven-exports.html
Denise Morrison, the incoming chief
executive officer of  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) , outlined a strategic
plan last week after the world’s largest soup maker failed to
attract as many consumers as estimated during the recession. A
key component: Sell more food overseas.  “We must and we will implement a new strategy to expand
our position and drive our growth in international markets,”
Morrison said at a July 12 meeting with investors. “The rise of
the middle class in large developing markets like China and
India” represents a “growth opportunity of staggering
proportions.”  A surge in global demand for U.S. products hasn’t been lost
on Federal Reserve officials, including Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
and Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  President William C. Dudley. They’ve cited the increase as a justification for their
forecast of an economic rebound in the second half of the year.  While job growth flags and consumer confidence declines,
exports have climbed in the past two years and accounted for a
record 13.4 percent of gross domestic product in the first
quarter compared with a decade low of 9.2 percent in the second
quarter of 2003, according to Bureau of Economic Analysis data.  “It’s been a huge bright spot since the recession ended,”
said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC
in Stamford, Connecticut. “I don’t think the export piece is
enough to be a cure-all, but it could certainly be a help at the
margin.”  Farmers in  Brazil   U.S. shipments overseas reached a record $175.8 billion in
April and were $174.9 billion in May, benefiting companies from
Midland, Michigan-based  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  to  Deere & Co. (DE)  in
Moline, Illinois, according to data released by the Commerce
Department in  Washington  last week. Deere, the world’s largest
maker of agricultural equipment, said June 30 that sales of
tractors and machinery to farmers in Brazil are rising, buoyed
by high commodity prices.  Stanley forecasts that exports will continue to grow at a
rate of 5 percent to 7 percent during the next year, outpacing
economic expansion of about 4 percent. Consumer spending
accounted for 71.1 percent of GDP in the first quarter.  “When you look at the growth rates in developing markets
over the next decade, we must and we will participate in that
growth,” said Morrison, who is chief operating officer and
becomes CEO of Camden, New Jersey-based Campbell Soup on Aug. 1.
She said the company has “developed a short list of priority
markets, principally in  Asia  and  Latin America , in which we will
focus our efforts.”  Foreign Demand  The Fed’s easy monetary policy has helped spur foreign
demand for U.S. products by weakening the dollar. Since Bernanke
hinted on Aug. 27 that the Fed might embark on another round of
asset purchases, it has declined about 9 percent against a
basket of currencies for six major U.S. trading partners,
according to IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index. It
has depreciated against all 16 of the major currencies Bloomberg
tracks, including the Brazilian real, Singapore dollar and
Japanese yen.  The dollar strengthened against the euro today,
appreciating 0.8 percent to trade at $1.4043 as of 11:10 a.m. in
 London .  Complaints  Officials in  Germany ,  China  and Brazil have complained that
the U.S. hurt their economies by intentional devaluation through
the $600 billion bond-purchase program that ended last month.
While Dudley conceded in a New York speech on June 7 “it is at
least possible” the Fed’s bond buying “put some upward
pressure on some” emerging-market currencies, he also said the
U.S. central bank is “fully committed to keeping inflation in
check and maintaining the purchasing power of the dollar.”  The recovery in exports “has been a significant
contributor to the recovery of the past couple of years,” said
 Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at  Barclays Capital  in New York.
“The relatively weak dollar and strong growth abroad,
especially in the emerging markets, does suggest that export
growth should be strong in coming quarters.”  Wolverine World Wide Inc. (WWW) , the Rockford, Michigan-based
shoe company whose products include Hush Puppies, reported a
“double-digit” revenue increase in “every major geographic
region” in the second quarter, Blake Krueger, chief executive
officer, said on a July 12 earnings conference call.  It’s “a very good time to be diversified and to have our
brands in more than 190 countries and markets around the world,
as the pace of the economic recovery in most global markets has
been faster than in  Europe  or the United States,” Krueger said.  ‘Bright Spots’  Trade will give a “sizable boost” to GDP, economists at
UBS Securities LLC said in a July 12 report raising their
forecast for the contribution. UBS now predicts net exports will
boost growth in the second quarter by 1.5 percentage points, up
from an earlier assumption of a 0.4 percentage point gain.  Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee in
Washington last week that exports and business investment in
equipment and software are “two bright spots in the recovery”
from the worst recession since the Great Depression. He also
said the central bank is prepared to take additional action if
the expansion appears to be in danger of stalling.  Not all economists are impressed by the export figures.
Macroeconomic Advisers LLC in St. Louis last week lowered its
estimate for GDP growth in the second quarter by four-tenths of
a percentage point on weaker-than-expected net exports. The
consultants projected on July 15 that the economy grew 1.4
percent last quarter after expanding 1.9 percent in January-
March.  ‘Wild Card’  The trade deficit in the U.S. widened 15 percent in May to
$50.2 billion, the highest in almost three years, reflecting a
surge in the cost of imported crude oil.  “Trade is still going to be a wild card” and shouldn’t be
“a major input” in policy-making decisions, said  Drew Matus , a
senior U.S. economist at UBS in  Stamford , Connecticut. Fed
officials should focus on “the inflation outlook, which has
gotten quite bad,” and on domestic purchases, he said. “I
don’t think trade is the be-all, end-all.”  The Federal Open Market Committee cut its forecasts for
growth this year at its June 21-22 meeting, before a July 8
government report showed that employers added 18,000 jobs last
month, the fewest since September.  Unemployment  “Nonetheless, members saw the pace of the economic
expansion as picking up over the coming quarters and the
 unemployment rate  resuming its gradual decline,” the committee
said in the minutes of the meeting, released last week. While
the jobless rate rose to 9.2 percent in June from 9.1 percent in
May, it has fallen from a post-recession high of 10.1 percent in
October 2009.  The FOMC is divided on whether additional monetary stimulus
may be needed or whether economic conditions may warrant a
withdrawal of accommodative policy “sooner than currently
anticipated,” the minutes showed.  The Fed completed its $600 billion bond-purchase program on
June 30, and last month repeated its pledge to keep its
benchmark interest rate at record lows “for an extended
period.” Policy makers cut the target for the federal funds
rate, which banks charge each other for overnight loans, to
between zero and 0.25 percent in December 2008.  Asian Demand  Dudley cited “robust” demand abroad for U.S. exports,
particularly from Asia, in a June 10 Brooklyn speech as one
“reason to expect the economy to recover from this soft
patch.” Expansion slowed to the 1.9 percent annual pace in the
first quarter from 3.1 percent in October-December 2010.  Manufacturers in the south are a “major beneficiary of
globalization,” with auto, aerospace, pharmaceutical and
commodity companies exporting around the world, Federal Reserve
Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker said June 13 at a
conference in Roanoke, Virginia. “Our ports are now jammed with
these goods.”  International sales were one of the few high points in the
second quarter for  Sanderson Farms Inc. (SAFM) , a Laurel, Mississippi-
based farmer that ships chickens to countries including Russia,
Mexico and China.  Food-service demand remained weak as high unemployment kept
people away from restaurants, Chief Executive Officer Joe Sanderson said at a May 17 conference a week before the company
reported a net loss of $16.3 million. “But we’ve seen
improvement in the export market every month since January.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  