-- 
France Telecom Weighs Deal to Buy Congo China Telecom Stake

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 
2011-07-18T10:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/france-telecom-in-talks-with-zte-corp-to-buy-stake-in-congo-china-telecom.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  may make the
Democratic Republic of Congo its next target for African
expansion after entering exclusive talks with  China ’s ZTE Corp.
to purchase a majority stake in Congo China Telecom, the
country’s fourth-largest mobile operator.  France Telecom could later purchase the 49 percent of the
operator held by the Congolese government as part of a a call
for bids, in addition to ZTE’s 51 percent stake, said Beatrice Mandine, a France Telecom spokeswoman. The combined transactions
could represent an investment of about 300 million euros ($425
million), according to a person familiar with the situation. An
exact valuation is hard to determine because the government
tender hasn’t been completed, the person said.  Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard is reorienting
France’s largest telecom company toward  Africa  and the Middle
East as growth slows in European markets. Paris-based France
Telecom agreed to pay $245 million for a 20 percent stake in
 Iraq ’s Korek Telecom in March, and last year bought 40 percent
of Morocco’s Meditel for 640 million euros.  Margrete Ma, a spokeswoman at ZTE in Shenzhen, said the
company is aware of the report about France Telecom and Congo
Telecom, and declined to comment further.  Forty Years of War  With 65 million inhabitants and a mobile penetration rate
of just 17 percent, Congo is one of Africa’s largest -- and
least developed -- countries. Paris-based France Telecom already
operates in African states including  Ivory Coast ,  Kenya , and
Cameroon.  “Just by increasing the penetration rate, there’s a pretty
big opportunity there,” said Nick Brown, an analyst at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank in  London . “It’s much more appealing than
going into a more mature market.”  Still, Congo may present special challenges. The country,
which has a land area just under one-fourth the size of the
U.S., is still recovering from more than forty years of
dictatorship and war. Last year the Congolese had a per-capita
income of just $300, according to the Central Intelligence
Agency’s World Factbook.  The Congolese government’s CCT stake is being considered
for sale as part of a broader effort to divest some assets and
transform more than a dozen state-owned enterprises into
limited-liability companies. Besides telecommunications, the
Central African country is also offering shares in some
government cement projects, according to the Portfolio Ministry.  Middle East , Africa Sales  “The process is ongoing” to find a buyer for the CCT
shares, and the government is aware that France Telecom’s talks
with ZTE are “very advanced,” Faustin Mpako, the chief of
staff at the ministry, said by phone from Kinshasa.  France Telecom’s emerging-market assets are taking on a
larger share of revenue as economic growth in those countries
outpaces that of  Europe . Sales in the Middle East and Africa,
excluding  Egypt , climbed 5.8 percent in the first quarter.
Revenue from France, which contributed to half of the group’s
total, fell 2.6 percent to 5.6 billion euros.  The company last year set a target of doubling its overall
emerging-market revenue by 2015, from about 3.3 billion euros in
2009.  France  Telecom shares were down 0.2 percent to 13.75 euros
as of 11:03 a.m. in Paris trading. They’ve fallen 12 percent
this year, cutting the company’s market value to 36.4 billion
euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  