-- 
French Socialists Harden Deficit-Cutting Pledge as Euro Crisis Escalates

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-07-18T10:11:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/french-socialists-harden-deficit-cutting-pledge-as-euro-crisis-escalates.html
French Socialist Party leaders are
hardening their commitment to cut the nation’s budget deficit as
 Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis creeps into the campaign for next
year’s presidential elections.  “We have to balance the public accounts without delay”
and reduce the deficit to 3 percent of gross domestic product by
2013,  Francois Hollande , the leading contender to become the
Socialist candidate for president, said in an interview with
yesterday’s  Le Monde  newspaper. “Debt is the enemy of the left
and of France.”  Martine Aubry , who’s also seeking her party’s nomination,
echoed that view. “It’s a question of sovereignty,” she said,
also vowing to meet the 3 percent goal in remarks yesterday on
Europe 1 radio from Avignon, France. “Nothing would be worse
than becoming president in 2012 and being attacked by financial
markets.”  The remarks suggest a shift from April, when the Socialist
Party laid out its campaign platform for the 2012 election and
avoided a firm commitment on the deficit. Since then, concern
about the ability of euro-area nations to repay their debts has
grown, with borrowing costs surging last week for  Italy , the
region’s third-largest economy.  Containing the turbulence and keeping it from moving on to
AAA-rated France is a key priority for European leaders set to
meet in Brussels on July 21 to discuss the crisis. The premium
France pays over  Germany  to borrow for 10 years surged to 69
basis points today from 38 points at the beginning of the month.  Debt Rising  French public debt stood at 84.5 percent of gross domestic
product in the first quarter and will rise to 85.4 percent at
the end of the year before peaking at 86.9 percent in 2012,
government estimates show.  President  Nicolas Sarkozy , with elections looming in April
and May, has promised the European Union that France will trim
its budget shortfall to 5.7 percent of GDP this year and 4.6
percent next before it falls to 3 percent in 2013.  Both Moody’s Investors Services and  Standard & Poor’s  have
said that France’s top-tier credit rating is safe, provided the
country carries out economic changes.  “If French authorities do not follow through with their
reform of the pension system, make additional changes to the
social-security system and consolidate the current budgetary
position in the face of rising spending pressure on health care
and pensions, Standard & Poor’s will unlikely maintain its AAA
rating,” S&P said in a June 10 report.  Retirement Age   Both Hollande and Aubry have pledged to reverse Sarkozy’s
increase in the retirement age and both said they’ll continue to
oppose his effort to enshrine deficit-limiting rules in the
constitution. They will be able to block the change if they
manage to gain control of  France ’s Senate in September.  “To reduce our deficit and put France back on the path to
fiscal health, there’s no need to change the constitution,
there’s a need to change the president,” Hollande said.  Valerie Pecresse, Sarkozy’s budget minister, said Hollande
and Aubry are playing a “double game” in expressing concern
about indebtedness while also opposing measures to curb it.  “They have repeatedly opposed all measures to improve the
public finances,” Pecresse said in an e-mailed statement,
listing the pension-system overhaul and the constitutional
change as examples. This language “could gravely damage
France’s credibility.”  Pecresse also underscored the government’s commitment to
the 2012 and 2013 budget targets, saying Sarkozy is ready to
drop a promise not to raise taxes to meet them if necessary.  “We’ll keep this promise, and we’ll keep it whatever the
economic circumstances, whatever the growth and inflation
rates,” she said today on LCI television. “If necessary, we’re
ready to find additional revenue.”  Some 34 percent of Socialist supporters want Hollande as
their presidential candidate, compared with 32 percent for Aubry
and 16 percent for Segolene Royal, according to a  CSA poll
published  on July 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  