-- 
German Bomb Squads Race Against Time to Find Aged World War II Explosives

-- B y   J a m e s   M .   C l a s h
-- 
2011-07-18T09:23:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/german-bomb-squads-fight-against-time-as-aged-world-war-ii-explosives-lurk.html
“Here, put these gloves on first.
We must have some rules.” With that, ordnance expert Peter
Ewler grins, then allows me to dip my hands into a bin of high
explosives and lift out a 50-pound unexploded bomb.  The rusted thing, from World War II, is of Russian origin
and was found near the Polish-German border. If my hand slips,
the concrete storage bunker we’re in probably would blow up.  Unexploded bombs are still big business in Germany. Almost
two million tons were dropped there by the U.S.,  Russia  and
Britain during World War II. An estimated 10 percent to 15
percent never exploded and now, seven decades later, are
prolonging war into the 21st century.  In Brandenburg alone, the area surrounding Berlin that I
visited and the most infested of Germany’s states, around 350
tons of unexploded munitions are destroyed annually, including
grenades, mortars, artillery shells, mines and aerial bombs.
Some are found in fields, others in residential areas near homes
and schools built after the war.  Wilfried Kramer oversees the War Ordnance Disposal Service
in Brandenburg. He operates with an annual budget of just 13
million euros ($18.4 million), 8 million of which goes to
private subcontractors, the rest to a staff of 66 field workers
and technicians, including overhead.  How do they find the bombs? Some 70 percent are identified
using U.S. and U.K. air-reconnaissance photos taken after
bombing runs during the war. Since  Germany  reunited, Kramer’s
unit has purchased 19,100 of them. Telltale blips near large
craters show where aerial bombs, especially heavier ones, landed
and never exploded.  Still Live  The most dangerous ones were set to explode between 1 to
144 hours after landing to create prolonged chaos. The problem
is that many landed in the wrong position for the acetone
“long-delay” fuses to work properly, and are still live.  Heino Borchert is responsible for Oranienburg, a
particularly problematic area. Because the Allies thought the
Nazis were developing an atomic bomb there, raids by U.S and
U.K. bombers blasted the place. The theory was that even if
Germany didn’t complete a nuclear device, the Russians might
capture the area before the Allies and acquire the technology.  Borchert took me to a residential area with unexploded
bombs still in the ground. Three of five --- one 550 pound and
two 1,100 pound U.S. monsters -- already had been found and
detonated. Large craters filled with water marked the holes.  Remote Saws  Two more nearby still are being hunted. I walked over and
stood on one site, full of gray plastic pipe probes drilled
down, knowing something that could take out half a city block
was likely below me. It was unsettling, and within a stone’s
throw of nearby houses. Borchert said that when homeowners see
his crew, in fact, it’s like meeting the grim reaper.  When a bomb is judged stable enough for transport, it’s
brought to a central munitions complex in Kummersdorf. Some
dismantling is still done by hand there, but more often now
detonator and fuse removal is achieved using remote-controlled
saws. We watched on a video camera from a separate control room
as a Russian grenade was successfully sliced in half.  When enough ordnance accumulates (25 tons to 35 tons), the
facility stages detonations on a large open pit of sand. Guido
Kuschinsky, who runs the place, says his wife is always glad
when he returns at night.  “She makes me call after every detonation,” he says. Even
though their bravery merits reward, these guys don’t show up on
rich lists. The average senior “fire worker” earns 30,000
euros annually.  Bomb Bunker  Kuschinsky then leads me to the most dangerous area, a
concrete bunker where the live bombs are stored. First I must
sign a paper, in German, releasing authorities from liability
should one explode. It happens. Kuschinsky tells of a friend he
lost in this room when a small device went off. When asked if he
has had close calls himself, he shakes his head, says he doesn’t
want to talk about it.  For the last part of my trip, we drove to the Polish border
to meet with Ewler. He was waiting in a grassy field near the
 Oder River , the final stand of the German army against charging
Russians. One of his workers was busy surveying the ground with
a metal detector. Suddenly he stopped, and another came over and
began digging, carefully.  Sure enough, a few feet below a small rusted device was
visible. Ewler pointed out that the fuse was missing but not the
detonator, making it unstable for transport.  Bomb Boom  A plastic explosive was buried along with the 82-millimeter
Russian mortar shell. We all retreated to about 275 yards. After
a short countdown, a small radio sent the signal. In a
magnificent show, the shell --- along with other ordnance found
earlier -- shot earth and smoke 100 feet into the air. A boom
followed. I began to feel like  Jeremy Renner  in the movie “The
Hurt Locker.”  But this isn’t Hollywood. Ewler lost three friends last
year when a 1,100 pound bomb blew in Gottingen. Sad as that was,
he’s circumspect. He said that if a bomb does go off, he hopes
it’s a big one because he doesn’t want to suffer.  Even though World War II is now 66 years gone, it may never
be over for these fire workers. As technology improves, so do
methods for detecting bombs. While thousands have been found,
thousands more lie in wait. And the longer they wait, the more
dangerous they become. TNT never decays, but the stabilizing
agent in the explosive does.  Left to their own devices, the bombs eventually explode on
their own. It’s happening already. Phosphorous ordnance will
ignite spontaneously, causing wildfires. Fire departments won’t
go in sometimes for fear of other (bigger) bombs exploding too.  Germany is still in a war, only it is with time.  (James M. Clash writes on adventure for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James M. Clash at  jclash@explorers.org .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 