-- 
Gillard Spends A$25 Million on Carbon Campaign as Polls Slump

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-07-17T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/gillard-spends-a-25-million-on-carbon-campaign-as-polls-slump.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said her government will start a A$25 million ($27
million) campaign, including  television advertising , to explain
its carbon tax as support slumps in opinion polls.  “There’ll be A$12 million of television advertising and
another A$13 million allocated to getting people the information
they need,” Gillard told  Channel Nine ’s “Weekend Today”
program yesterday. “This advertising campaign is about getting
people information.”  Gillard,  Australia ’s least popular prime minister in 13
years, is touring the nation to try to reverse public opposition
to the tax announced on July 10. Support for Gillard declined to
38 percent, while 43 percent of respondents said they preferred
opposition leader  Tony Abbott  as prime minister, according to a
July 12 Newspoll survey, published in the Australian newspaper.  Australia, which relies on coal to generate 80 percent of
its electricity, will require about 500 businesses to pay for
pollution. The program will boost annual inflation by 0.7
percentage point in its first year, the government estimates.  The government will provide A$9.2 billion over three years
to assist high-polluting businesses such as aluminum smelters,
steelmakers and pulp manufacturers, while planning to cut taxes
for workers to offset the impact of the levy that is expected to
raise prices.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said Australia’s strong economic
position with low unemployment, record terms of trade and a
strong investment pipeline made the introduction of a carbon tax
feasible in the face of global economic uncertainty.  Strong Region  “We’re not immune from global economic developments but
our region remains strong -- we have an underlying strength in
our economy, we have low unemployment, we have a strong invest
pipeline and we have record terms of trade,” Swan told Channel
Ten’s “Meet the Press” program yesterday. “Now is the time to
put in place this fundamental reform because if we delay it just
gets costlier by the year.”  Coal mining companies in Australia, the world’s biggest
exporter, will be required to pay for fugitive emissions -- gas
emitted naturally from coal operations -- while receiving A$1.3
billion in compensation, with the biggest polluters getting
assistance over six years, according to the government. Other
so-called trade-exposed industries such as steel producers will
also receive assistance.  The tax will make certain projects uneconomical and cost
jobs, the  Minerals Council of Australia  said. The Australian
Coal Association said overseas coal buyers may switch to other
nations, forcing mine closures.  ‘Bright Future’  The coal industry in Australia “still has a bright
future,” Swan said in his weekly Economic Note, following the
all-cash A$4.7 billion takeover proposal for Brisbane-based
producer Macarthur Coal Ltd. from Peabody Energy Corp. of  St.
Louis ,  Missouri , and ArcelorMittal in Luxembourg the day after
the carbon policy announcement.  “The level of investment shows the confidence coal miners
have in the future,” Swan said in the note. “As of April,
there was a staggering A$70 billion on the drawing boards or
underway for coal-related projects. That’s up by more than four
times from the level of just three years ago.”  Australia’s jobless rate is at 4.9 percent, compared with
9.1 percent in the U.S. Record investment in mining projects and
commodity prices close to all-time highs helped the local
currency in the world’s biggest iron ore, coal and alumina
exporter advance 20 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past
12 months. The so-called Aussie bought $1.0653 as of July 15.  Worse Off  While the Labor government has secured support for the tax
from Greens and independent lawmakers, whom Gillard relies on
for a majority in parliament, 68 percent of Australians say they
expect to be worse off under carbon pricing, according to a
Galaxy poll published by the Daily Telegraph newspaper last week.  The government’s advertising campaign began on television
networks yesterday.  Australia expects to raise about A$27.8 billion in three
years by making polluters pay an initial charge of A$23 per ton
of carbon dioxide, increasing the price by 2.5 percent a year,
plus inflation. The country will switch to a cap-and-trade
system in 2015, while providing about A$47 billion through 2020
to help households and industries and spur renewable energy.  To sweeten carbon trading for the public the government has
promised that nine out of 10 households will get either a  tax
cut  or increased benefits to help cope with a forecast A$9.90
($10.53) per week increase in prices from the carbon plan.  The government wants to cut emissions to at least 5 percent
below 2000 levels by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  