-- 
Gillard to Spend A$12 Million on Carbon Tax Ads

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-07-17T02:51:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/gillard-to-spend-a-12-million-on-carbon-tax-advertising.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said her government will start a A$12 million ($13
million)  television advertising  campaign to help explain its
carbon tax policy as her support slumps in opinion polls.  “This advertising campaign is about getting people
information,” Gillard told  Channel Nine ’s “Weekend Today”
program. “There’ll be A$12 million of television advertising
and another A$13 million allocated to getting people the
information they need.”  Gillard is touring the nation to try to reverse public
opposition to the tax announced on July 10. The government plans
to cut taxes for workers to offset the impact on about 500
businesses of a levy that is expected to raise prices.  In a Newspoll survey published July 12, support for Gillard
declined to 38 percent, while 43 percent of respondents said
they preferred opposition leader  Tony Abbott  as prime minister,
according the poll published in the Australian newspaper.  Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said Australia’s strong economic
position with low unemployment, record terms of trade and a
strong investment pipeline made the introduction of a carbon tax
feasible in the face of global economic uncertainty.  “We’re not immune from global economic developments but
our region remains strong -- we have an underlying strength in
our economy, we have low unemployment, we have a strong invest
pipeline and we have record terms of trade,” Swan told the
“Meet the Press” program. “Now is the time to put in place
this fundamental reform because if we delay it just gets
costlier by the year.”  Mining Investment  Australia ’s jobless rate is at 4.9 percent, compared with
9.1 percent in the U.S. Record investment in mining projects and
commodity prices close to all-time highs helped the local
currency in the world’s biggest iron ore, coal and alumina
exporter advance 20 percent against the  U.S. dollar  in the past
12 months. The so-called Aussie bought $1.0653 as of July 15.  While the Labor government has secured support for the tax
from Greens and independent lawmakers, whom Gillard relies on
for a majority in parliament, 68 percent of Australians say they
expect to be worse off under carbon pricing, according to a
Galaxy poll published by the Daily Telegraph newspaper last week.  The government’s advertising campaign will begin on
television networks later today.  Main Polluters  Australia expects to raise about A$27.8 billion in three
years by making polluters pay an initial charge of A$23 per ton
of carbon dioxide, increasing the price by 2.5 percent a year,
plus inflation. The country will switch to a cap-and-trade
system in 2015, while providing about A$47 billion through 2020
to help households and industries and spur renewable energy.  To sweeten carbon trading for the public the government has
promised that nine out of 10 households will get either a  tax
cut  or increased benefits to help cope with a forecast A$9.90
($10.53) per week increase in prices from the carbon plan.  Coal mining companies in Australia will be required to pay
for fugitive emissions -- gas emitted naturally from coal
operations -- while receiving A$1.3 billion in compensation,
with the biggest polluters getting assistance over six years,
according to the government.  The tax will make certain projects uneconomical and cost
jobs, the  Minerals Council of Australia  said. The Australian
Coal Association said overseas coal buyers may switch to other
nations, forcing mine closures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  