-- 
Libya Needs to Manage $168 Billion in Assets, Banker Says

-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 
2011-07-17T12:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/libya-has-168-billion-abroad-for-financing-ex-bank-chief-says.html
Libya  has about $168 billion in
frozen assets and the Transitional National Council needs to
access and start managing the funds as it works to oust  Muammar Qaddafi  and rebuild the country, former central bank chief
Farhat Bengdara said.  The assets include $106 billion owned by the central bank,
55 percent to 60 percent of which is in  government securities ,
and $62 billion held by the Libyan Investment Authority,
Bengdara, who resigned in March and heads the International 
Libyan Bankers’ Association, said in an interview in Istanbul 
yesterday. The group is advising the TNC about raising finance 
and reviving the banking industry, he said.  “The council now has a legal status; they can raise money,
fund contracts and give loans,” Bengdara said. “They can get
finance and the collateral could be these deposits.”  The U.S. and allies recognized the TNC as the sole
legitimate governing authority in Libya at a meeting in Istanbul
two days ago, a step that allows for greater funding and access
to the Qaddafi regime’s assets. The U.S. foresees a “short
time-frame” for releasing some of the about $30 billion in
assets frozen by the U.S. in February, State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said on July 15.  A further 30 percent of the central bank’s assets abroad
are in money-market deposits and the remainder is invested in
 Italy ’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the Arab Banking Corporation and the
Libyan Foreign bank, he said. Bengdara is a deputy chairman on
the board of UniCredit.  The Libyan Investment Authority’s assets include cash,
 hedge funds , asset management portfolios, government securities
and property.  ‘Losing Money’  “No one’s managing these investments so we’re losing money
every day,” he said. “Either they should be managed by a newly
appointed board of trustees, or they can hire a trustee. This
will maintain the assets’ value.”  Bengdara said another priority facing the TNC will be to
secure the foreign exchange to put the banking industry back to
work, allowing letters of credit and financing of imports.  The council can start to make use of banks with
headquarters in the eastern part of Libya, an area under its
control, Bengdara said.  President  Barack Obama  signed an order on Feb. 25 freezing
any U.S. assets of Qaddafi, his family and members of his regime
in Libya. The mechanics of how the U.S. will unfreeze assets 
still has to be worked out. United Nations sanctions against 
Libya remain in place, a hindrance to efforts to get money to 
the rebels.  Loans  The TNC needs $3 billion to cover the budget for six
months, spokesman Mahmoud Shammam said by telephone yesterday.
The council is seeking loans secured by the regime’s assets
abroad as a means of funding, he said.  Italy will open a  credit line  to rebels using frozen assets
as collateral, and will provide them with 100 million euros
($141 million), Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said on
July 15. Another 300 million euros will be released in two weeks
and in total, Italy will release 400 million euros, he said,
describing the money as loans.  The council is expecting $100 million from  Turkey  within
three days, Shammam said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Mark Bentley  in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net . 