-- 
Investors Boost Bullish Commodity Bets as Gold Demand Jumps on Debt Crisis

-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   Y i   T i a n
-- 
2011-07-18T04:01:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/investors-boost-bullish-commodity-bets-as-gold-demand-jumped-on-debt-woes.html
Funds boosted bets on rising
commodity prices by the most in almost a year as traders added
gold amid escalating debt crises in the U.S. and  Europe .  Speculators raised their net-long positions in 18
commodities by 15 percent to 1.09 million futures and options
contracts in the week ended July 12, government data compiled by
Bloomberg show. That’s the biggest gain since early August. Gold
holdings surged the most since September 2009 as prices climbed
to a record. A measure of bullish agriculture bets climbed the
most in 11 months.  The  Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Spot Index increased for a third
straight week, climbing to a one-month high on July 13. Gold
futures climbed for nine straight sessions to July 15, the
longest rally since November 2009, on increasing demand for the
precious metal from those seeking to protect their investments.  “People have been thinking about where to invest when you
are dealing with a situation of high debt in both Europe and the
U.S.,”  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.6 billion at First
Asset Management Inc., said by telephone from Toronto. “People
know there is tangible value for metals and commodities. There
is a store of value in these products.”  Investors invested $5.5 billion in commodity funds in the
week ended July 13, the biggest addition since April 6, according
to EPFR Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based researcher. Ten
of the top 11 funds getting money were gold funds, EPFR said.  U.S. Rating  Last week, Standard & Poor’s became the second rating
company to say it may cut the U.S.’s top credit grade, and the
 Federal Reserve  said it would consider a third round of so-
called quantitative easing if the economy falters. Gold futures
climbed to a record $1,599.20 an ounce on the Comex today.  “There was a lot of fear in the marketplace about a
potential downgrade of  U.S. debt  and more negative news from the
 euro zone ,” said  Brad Durham , an EPFR managing director. “It was
a good, old-fashioned flight-to-safety trade.”  Hedge funds  and other money managers lifted their net-long
gold position by 44,393 futures and options contracts, or 25
percent, to 222,184, data from the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commissioned showed. That was the biggest jump since the
week ended Sept. 8, 2009.  Speculators raised their net-long position in 11 U.S. farm
goods by 16 percent to 655,798 contracts as of July 12, the
biggest increase since August.  Holdings of soybeans surged 40 percent, the most in a year.
Prices of the oilseed climbed for 10 straight sessions, the
longest rally since September 2007, as hot, dry weather
threatened crops in the U.S., the world’s leading exporter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net ;
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  