-- 
Israeli Economy Grows 4.6%, Below Estimate

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-07-17T10:12:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/israeli-economy-grows-4-6-slower-than-estimate.html
Israel ’s economy expanded an
annualized 4.6 percent in the first quarter, slower than
previously estimated.  Growth eased from a revised 7.7 percent in the fourth
quarter, the fastest in four years, the Jerusalem-based Central
 Bureau of Statistics  said in an e-mailed statement today. The
previous estimate for the first quarter was 4.8 percent.  “Even if it’s a little lower than we thought, this is
still a very nice rate compared to the rest of the world,” Amir Kahanovich, chief economist at Clal Finance Investment
Management Ltd. in  Tel Aviv , said in a telephone interview.
“It’s harder to grow quarter on quarter after you have a very
big jump like we had in the fourth quarter.”  Economic growth may be slower this year than the Bank of
Israel’s forecast of 5.2 percent because the expansion in the
second quarter may have been less than expected, Governor
 Stanley Fischer  said July 7. Fischer held the benchmark interest
rate at 3.25 percent in June after four increases this year,
citing concern over slower U.S. economic growth and the
worsening of debt risks in  Europe .  Fischer is likely to hold the benchmark rate at the end of
the month according to 13 of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
at the end of June and beginning of July.  Government Revenue  Israeli imports declined for the first time in four months
in June, the statistics bureau said July 11. Government revenue
in June was 15 billion shekels ($4.4 billion), 1.1 billion
shekels below the government forecast, the  Finance Ministry  said
on July 6.  Consumer prices rose 0.4 percent in June and annual
inflation accelerated to 4.2 percent from 4.1 percent, the sixth
month it has exceeded the government’s 1 percent to 3 percent
target range, the statistics bureau said July 15.  The TA-25 benchmark  stock index  has declined by about 6
percent since the beginning of the year, led by Discount
Investment Corp., a holding company with interests in
telecommunications, retailing, and manufacturing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 