-- 
Israel Bonds Rise a Third Day as Inflation Confirms Rate Bets

-- B y   S u s a n   L e r n e r   a n d   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 
2011-07-17T15:17:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/israel-bonds-climb-a-third-day-on-inflation-rate-bets-correct-.html
Israeli  government bonds  gained for
a third day as in-line inflation and slower economic growth
increased expectations the central bank will leave its main
lending rate unchanged next week.  The yield on the benchmark 5 percent Mimshal Shiklit bond
due January 2020 dropped two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point to 4.98 percent, the lowest since Feb. 15, at the 4:30
p.m. close in  Tel Aviv . The rate declined 11 basis points last
week before the Central Bureau of Statistics said July 15 the
consumer-price index advanced 0.4 percent in June from the
previous month, while annual inflation accelerated to 4.2
percent from 4.1 percent.  The CPI was pretty much as expected and “confirms the
knowledge that the Bank of  Israel  won’t raise the interest rate
at as fast a pace as in the first half of the year,” Ori Greenfeld, macro economist at Psagot Investment House Ltd. in
Tel Aviv, said by telephone.  The central bank kept the benchmark lending rate at 3.25
percent in June after four increases this year, citing concern
about slower U.S. economic growth and rising debt risk in
 Europe . The rate is expected to climb gradually to about 4.1
percent in 12 months, according to an assessment by  Bank of
Israel  research staff that was contained in the minutes of the
June 27 rate-setting meeting.  The bank will leave the rate unchanged at its next meeting
July 25, according to 14 of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Slower Growth  The economy expanded an annualized 4.6 percent in the first
quarter, slower than the previously estimated 4.8 percent, the
Jerusalem-based  Central Bureau of Statistics  said today. Growth
eased from a revised 7.7 percent in the fourth quarter, the
fastest in four years.  “Compared with the rest of the world, the Israeli economy
is growing at a sound rate,” Greenfeld said. “Still, Israel is
a country dependent on exports and its economy is going to be
affected by a slowdown in the global economy since its main
trading partners are the U.S. and Europe.”  Economic growth in Israel may be slower in 2011 than the
central bank’s forecast of 5.2 percent because expansion in the
second quarter may have been less than expected, Bank of Israel
Governor  Stanley Fischer  said July 7. Imports declined for the
first time in four months in June, the statistics bureau said
July 11. Government revenue in June was 15 billion shekels ($4.4
billion), 1.1 billion shekels below the government forecast, the
 Finance Ministry  said July 6.  The shekel weakened 0.4 percent to 3.4380 per dollar on
July 15. It has strengthened 2.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Susan Lerner  in Jerusalem at 
 slerner2@bloomberg.net ;
Sharon Wrobel in Jerusalem at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  