-- 
Japan Stocks Top World as Factory Output Gains With Toyota

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-07-18T10:17:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/japanese-equities-beating-world-as-industrial-output-rebounds-with-toyota.html
Equities in  Japan  are rising more
than any other developed country on speculation earnings will
improve as the country recovers from its strongest earthquake.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average climbed 2.9 percent since the
start of June, posting the biggest increase among 24 developed
countries in the MSCI World Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Toyota Motor Corp. climbed 4.9 percent since June 17
after saying production is rebounding faster than forecast. A
measure of transport-equipment makers in the broader Topix index
rose 3.6 percent as the government said June 29 that May
industrial production expanded the most in 50 years.  Companies from Renesas Electronics Corp. to Seven & I
Holdings Co. are reopening factories and stores faster than they
initially planned, building confidence in earnings that analysts
say will rise 17 percent in the next 12 months. The advance in
Japanese equities pushed the  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  within 4.7 percent of
its level before the March 11 earthquake, tsunami and nuclear
disaster erased as much as $646 billion from Japanese shares.  “Corporate earnings are bouncing back,”  Philip Poole ,
global head of macro and investment strategy at HSBC Global
Asset Management, which oversees $443.5 billion, said in an
interview from Hong Kong. “I’m actually quite positive on
Japan. There’s evidence that construction continues to be quite
supportive and reconstruction will obviously be a boost to
growth.”  Economic Damage  Investors are returning after the Nikkei 225 lost 18
percent in three days after March 10, dragging valuations to 14
times estimated earnings, the lowest in two and a half years.
The temblor and ensuing nuclear crisis caused electricity
shortages and damage to factories and supply chains that will
shave 3 percent off the economy in the quarter to June 30,
according to the average estimate of 43 economists in a survey
released June 8 by the government-affiliated  Economic Planning
Association .  Asian stocks fell for a third day after U.S. President
 Barack Obama  said the government is “running out of time” in
negotiating a deal to cut the fiscal deficit, hurting the
outlook for Asian exporters. The MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding
Japan Index dropped 0.6 percent to 473.19 as of 6:16 p.m. in
Hong Kong. Japanese markets were closed for a public holiday.  Japanese equities are gaining as estimates show the economy
may expand at an annual rate of 4.9 percent and 4.2 percent in
last two quarters of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Gross domestic product may have contracted in the
three previous quarters, meeting the common definition of a
recession. The Bank of Japan raised its economic assessment for
a second month on July 12 as companies ramped up production.  CDS Prices Fall  The cost to insure Japan’s bonds against default has fallen
amid signs of an improving outlook for the economy and earnings.
Credit-default swaps on Japan’s sovereign debt for five years
traded at 91.5 basis points on July 15 after surging to as much
as 117.8 basis points after the March disaster, according to
prices by CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  “In spite of the earthquake and global uncertainty,
corporate Japan is in really good health,” said Dean Cashman,
who beat 95 percent of his peers in the last five years managing
the International Opportunities Funds -- Japan Dynamic Fund at
Prudential Asset Management in  Singapore . “For the first time
in many years, you can say Japan is genuinely cheap. We’re quite
confident that the trend in the earnings outlook looks solid.”  ‘Market Being Rewarded’  Analysts are boosting profit forecasts after cutting them
by 11 percent in two months following the March 11 earthquake.
Income for companies in the Nikkei 225 may reach 636.74 yen a
share in twelve months, a 7.5 percent increase from projections
in May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The supply-chain bottleneck is opening up and that has
led to a pick-up in manufacturing activities, which is happening
faster than people had expected,” said New York-based Nichola Noriega, international equity strategist at Federated Investors
Inc., which oversees $354.9 billion. “The market is being
rewarded for that. Production is coming back, exports are
picking up, businesses are hiring again, and we’re seeing a
shift in consumer sentiment, which is improving.”  Shares advanced as manufacturers said profits will surge 21
percent in the six months ending March 2012 as hiring picks up,
the  Bank of Japan  said on July 1. Companies see the quarterly
Tankan index of sentiment at large manufacturers improving to 2
in September, compared with minus 9 in June, the report showed.
A negative number means pessimists outnumber optimists.  ‘Faster Recovery’  “Damage from the earthquake to Japan’s economy was not as
bad as initially expected,” said Hidehiro Tomioka, who helps
oversee $1.5 billion at Manulife Asset Management (Japan) Ltd.
in  Tokyo . “The production recovery was faster or quicker than
the market was expecting.”  Cashman, an investment director at Prudential, was a buyer
of Seven & I, Japan’s biggest retailer by market value, which
has almost erased its loss since March 10. The convenience store
operator raised its profit estimate for the year ending February
2012 by 20 percent on July 7 as it reopened shops in Northern
Japan and restarted supply chains.  Taiheiyo Cement Corp., the country’s largest producer of
the building material by market value, has surged 39 percent
since March 10, the biggest increase on the Nikkei 225, as
investors bet earnings at construction companies will climb.
Chiyoda Corp., which constructs and maintains industrial plants
and receives nearly half its revenue domestically, jumped 36
percent since then. An index of builders rose 6.4 percent since
the day before the disaster.  Toyota, Renesas  Toyota, the world’s biggest carmaker, said output at its
North American operations will return to normal by September
after overcoming supply chain disruptions, said  Bob Carter ,
group vice president of U.S. sales, in an interview on June 16.
Toyota, still 9.6 percent below its March 10 level, estimated in
April that full production would resume in November.  Renesas, the world’s biggest maker of microcontrollers used
in cars and mobile devices, said on June 10 that its supply of
chips will be restored to normal levels by the end of September,
a month earlier than planned. Renesas, which fell 31 percent in
the three days after March 10, has risen 14 percent since the
March 15 low.  Stocks rebounded as the yen retreated 1.7 percent from a
postwar high of 78.89 per dollar on March 17 through July 11. A
weaker yen boosts overseas sales at Japanese companies when
repatriated into their home currency. The currency surged
through last week after Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard &
Poor’s  threatened downgrades of the U.S.’s sovereign credit
rating, boosting the yen’s safe-haven appeal.  Demographic Headwind  The Nikkei lost 73 percent from its 1989 peak to March 10,
the day before the temblor, as the bursting of a property
bubble, plunging birthrates, weak consumption and political
instability led to economic contraction and deflation. The
disaster dragged the country into its third technical recession
in a decade.  “The Japanese corporate sector is structurally in much
better shape than it was 10 years ago,” said HSBC’s Poole.
“The longer terms issues are still there: the debt-to-GDP ratio
keeps going higher; there’s a demographic headwind. But the
corporate sector, and by extension the equity market, can do
well in the short term on the back of corporate earnings.”  Stocks have rebounded after the Trade Ministry said factory
production jumped 5.7 percent in May from April, the fastest
since 1953, and the July 1 Tankan survey showed firms plan to
expand investment in plants and equipment by 4.2 percent this
year, almost twice the estimated rate of 2.4 percent. Machinery
orders, an indicator of corporate  capital spending  in three to
six months, rose at the fastest month-on-month pace in four
months, the Cabinet Office said July 7.  ‘A Little Boost’  “If you look at some data that have come out from Japan,
especially on supply chains and the production side, that’s been
helping giving equities a little boost,” said  Naomi Fink , head
of Japan strategy at Jefferies Japan Ltd. in Tokyo.  Japanese stocks have led the global advance that began a
month ago amid receding concern that a sovereign-debt default by
 Greece  would trigger a banking crisis. European Central Bank
President  Jean-Claude Trichet  indicated his willingness to
sanction bond rollovers for the nation, and the Greek parliament
forced through budget cuts and tax increases on June 30 needed
to secure aid to avert a default.  The MSCI World Index of 24 developed nations gained 3.1
percent through July 12 after hitting a post-Japan earthquake
low on March 16. The Nikkei 225 has increased 2.9 percent since
the start of June, compared with the Standard and Poor’s 500
Index’s 2.2 percent decline and the Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s
drop of 5 percent, based on data compiled by Bloomberg through
July 15.  Nuclear Firms Surge  Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  survived a June 2 no-confidence
motion after pledging to resign once a nuclear crisis caused by
the quake and tsunami is contained. The conflict over when he
will quit has complicated efforts to push through legislation,
including authorizing 44.3 trillion yen in  government bonds 
needed to fund this year’s record budget.  Kan’s pick for reconstruction minister, Ryu Matsumoto, quit
a week into the job after offending the governor of a region
devastated by the tsunami. The prime minister’s approval rating
dropped to 19 percent from 24 percent last month, the Mainichi
newspaper reported this week.  Electricity-supply companies led Japan’s gains since the
start of June. A measure of power companies in the Topix surged
14 percent, led by Tokyo Electric Power Co., the utility at the
center of the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years.  ‘Low Level’  Kan’s cabinet agreed on June 14 to provide a safety net for
Tepco, as the utility is known, while it pays claims for damages
related to the nuclear meltdown at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
that could exceed $130 billion. Tepco shares had plunged as much
as 91 percent since the quake.  “The electrical power and gas index has been very weak
from the earthquake,” said Manulife’s Tomioka. “It’s been sold
off too much to a level where it became, over the short-term,
too cheap. It’s not a big sector, but it’s one example of the
market bouncing from a low level.”  Nomura Holdings Inc., Japan’s biggest brokerage, said 44
percent of institutional investors see the impact of the
disaster already being factored into the price of Japanese
stocks. The poll was taken between June 28 and June 30.  “The risks are fairly obvious,” said Cashman. “ But what
we have to ask is not how much risk there is, but how much risk
is priced in. There’s a lot more risk priced into Japan given
current valuations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 