-- 
Kansai Electric Faces ‘Severe’ August Power Shortage Amid Reactor Closures

-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-07-17T05:29:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/kansai-electric-faces-severe-august-power-shortage-on-reactor-closures.html
Kansai Electric  Power Co. will run
short of capacity after it halted a reactor yesterday,
heightening concerns the nation’s utilities won’t be able to
generate enough power as  Japan ’s summer heat intensifies.  “Our coverage area was already in a very severe state, and
yesterday’s shutdown will make things even worse,” Masaki Toratake, a spokesman, said in a telephone interview today.
“We’ve already been requesting power from other utilities, and
will continue to do so.”  Kansai Electric, which supplies power to  Osaka  and its
surrounding regions, closed a reactor at its Ohi nuclear plant
yesterday because of a problem with a pressurized-water tank. It
will shut two more reactors by July 22 for regular maintenance.  About two-thirds of Japan’s 54 reactors are out of
operation after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami or for
maintenance, prompting companies and consumers to save power to
prevent blackouts. Government plans for additional safety checks
on reactors may limit electricity supply, further burdening
manufacturers from Komatsu Ltd. to  Sony Corp. (6758)  with delays in
restarting plants, and threatening Japan’s fragile economic
recovery from a post-disaster plunge.  Toratake confirmed a report earlier today by the Nikkei
newspaper that Kansai Electric faces a shortage of as much as
6.6 percent of generating capacity in August due to reactor
closures. Kansai Electric will seek additional power from
neighboring utilities to make up the shortfall, the report said.  Heatstroke Victims  Among casualties of the nationwide power-saving drive were
some who tried to endure rising temperatures without air
conditioning. Twenty-six people died from heatstroke between
June 1 and July 10, four times the number in that period last
year, while 12,973 others were taken by ambulance to hospitals.  Temperatures in eastern Japan, including Tokyo, were the
hottest since at least 1961 in the final 10 days of June, at 3.8
degrees higher than the 30-year average, according to the  Japan
Meteorological Agency .  Kansai Electric asked customers to reduce power consumption
by 15 percent in June, and will continue requesting cuts by
households and businesses, Toratake said. The government started
requiring heavy users including Toyota Motor Corp. to cut back
on electricity consumption by 15 percent on July 1, marking the
first mandatory power-saving drive since the 1970s.
Manufacturers have changed working hours and shifted production
to weekends.  Kansai Electric expects demand to peak at 31.38 million
kilowatts in August. With yesterday’s shutdown at the Ohi plant
and the closures of two other reactors, the utility will be able
to generate a maximum of 29.31 kilowatts, according to Toratake.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  Tokyo  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe in Sydney at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  