-- 
NBAD Woos Japan Investors With First Samurai Bond: Arab Credit

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-07-17T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/nbad-woos-japan-investors-with-first-samurai-bond-arab-credit.html
National Bank of Abu Dhabi PJSC (NBAD) , the
United Arab Emirates’ second-biggest bank, sold the Persian Gulf
region’s first Samurai bond last week as it seeks to widen the
pool of potential investors.  Diversifying the source of funding helps banks reduce risk
by providing alternatives should other avenues dry up. The yield
premium demanded by investors on emerging market bonds increased
on mounting concern the sovereign-debt crisis in Greece will
spread to Italy and Spain, and as rating companies said they may
lower the U.S.’s.  State-controlled NBAD said July 12 it sold 10 billion yen
($127 million) of 15-year Samurai bonds, paying fixed interest
of 2.6 percent. Samurai bonds, securities issued in yen by a
non-Japanese company, are more likely to attract Japanese
investors because they’re subject to the country’s regulations.  “Japanese investors are very quality focused,” Anthony
Barklam, the London-based head of debt capital markets
origination for central and east  Europe , the  Middle East  and
 Africa  at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co., said in an interview.
They “don’t invest to trade the bonds, they invest to hold and
get their money back.”  Issuers in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation Council, which
includes  Saudi Arabia , the biggest Arab economy, and second-
ranked U.A.E., have raised $10.7 billion from 21 bond deals so
far this year, nearly all of which were dollar sales, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with $13.4 billion
raised from 20 issues in the same year-ago period.  Declining Yields  The average yield on GCC debt has fallen 37 basis points or
0.37 percentage point this year to 4.91 percent, according to
HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai GCC Conventional U.S. Dollar Bond Index.
National Bank of Abu Dhabi’s 4.25 percent $750 million bond due
2015 traded at a yield of 2.88 percent on July 15. The yield on
the bond has dropped 95 basis points, or 0.95 percentage points,
from the year’s high of 3.84 percent on March 15.  Bond issuance from the Middle East and North Africa may
beat last year’s $40 billion total because of increased
borrowing requirements and a logjam after the Arab Spring,
Salman Al Khalifa,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s regional head of markets
said June 14.  Dolphin Energy Ltd., a U.A.E.-based venture transporting
natural gas, and Tourism Development & Investment Co., a
developer of hotels and museums in Abu Dhabi, held back bond
sale plans in the past two weeks following the volatility in
credit markets due to worries over Greece’s debt.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  widened 13 basis points last week to
314, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  U.S. European Debt  In the U.S., disagreements between President Barack Obama
and Republican lawmakers over raising the debt ceiling prompted
Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  to review their
credit ratings. Standard & Poor’s said July 15 there was at
least a 50 percent chance it will lower the U.S.’s top-level AAA
ranking within 90 days, while Moody’s put the rating under
review for a downgrade on July 13.  Irish debt was cut to non-investment grad by Moody’s
Investors Service on July 12 on expectations it will need
further rounds of official financing, a week after it slashed
 Portugal ’s rating four levels to junk.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded
 Greece  by three levels last week to the lowest rating for any
country, saying a default is a “real possibility.”  Yen bonds  Still, “we’re not likely to see many Samurai deals from
the GCC, region unless issuers are prepared to do a significant
amount of work educating investors on their credit,” said
Barklam at Mitsubishi UFJ Securities.  While NBAD’s Samurai bond is the first such sale out of the
region, other companies have raised money in yen as part of
their euro medium-term note programs that were distributed
outside  Japan . The share of  Asia  in the U.A.E.’s total imports
rose to 48 percent in 2010 from 42 percent in 2002, according to
central bank data.  Dubai Holding Commercial Operations Group LLC, a real-
estate and hospitality group owned by Dubai’s ruler, raised 10
billion yen from the sale of five-year notes in July 2008, while
state-controlled  Abu Dhabi  Commercial Bank PJSC, the U.A.E.’s
third-biggest bank by assets, sold 5 billion yen worth of five-
year notes in 2006.  Governments and companies raised 1.57 trillion yen ($19.8
billion) from 56 issues of Samurai bonds so far this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That is up from 841
billion yen from 31 issues in the same period a year ago.  Ringgit Bond  The Republic of  Turkey  raised the equivalent of $2.28
billion from 10-year bonds in March in the biggest sale of
Samurai bonds so for this year. Issuers from  Australia  and  South
Korea  have been frequent sellers of the bonds this year.  NBAD has also issued bonds in other currencies to attract
new investors. It raised 500 million Malaysian ringgit ($166
million in December from the sale of 10-year bonds. Emirates NBD
has sold bonds in Australian dollars, Singapore dollars, Hong
Kong dollars and the Thai Baht to diversify its fund base, said
Tony Bush, managing director for global funding at Dubai
government-controlled  Emirates NBD PJSC. (EMIRATES)   “It’s important that regional issuers diversify their
funding sources whenever possible,” Bush said in a telephone
interview. “The Japanese market is very deep, but relatively
untested for Middle East issuers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  