-- 
Murdoch’s News Corp. Said to Take Over Phone-Hacking Swat Team From Unit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g ,   T a r i q   P a n j a   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-17T12:18:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/news-corp-said-to-take-over-phone-hacking-swat-team-from-unit.html
Rupert Murdoch ’s News Corp. will
take over from its U.K. newspaper unit a committee set up to
work with police over the widening phone-hacking scandal,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Simon Greenberg , corporate affairs director at the News
International U.K. unit, and General Manager Will Lewis will be
employed full time by the management and standards committee,
which will report to  Joel Klein , Murdoch’s top adviser, and 
Viet Dinh on behalf of News Corp.’s independent directors, 
said the people, who asked not to be identified. An
announcement may be made as early as tomorrow, they said.  The move is a step for Murdoch to address a spiralling
crisis at the News of the World that has forced the closure of
the 168-year-old Sunday tabloid, the resignation of two senior
executives and shelved News Corp.’s 7.8 billion pound ($12.6
billion) bid for full ownership of  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc. (BSY)  Murdoch and his son, James, who is chairman of News
International, has been called on by U.K. politicians over the
past two weeks to take responsibility for the crisis.  Alice Macandrew, a News Corp. spokeswoman in London,
declined to comment when reached by Bloomberg News.  The committee, which has hired law firm Olswang to examine
past failings at the News of the World and recommend systems and
practices that should become standards for the industry, will
also employ an external chairman, said one of the people.  News Corp. shares have fallen 13 percent since July 4, when
allegations spread that employees at the News of the Word hacked
into the phones of murder and terrorism victims and paid the
police to get stories.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
 Jonathan Browning  in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
 Tariq Panja  in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  