-- 
Murdoch Makes Fresh Hacking Apology as Miliband Urges News Corp. Breakup

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-07-17T13:06:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/news-corp-pledges-compensation-co-operation-over-phone-hacking.html
Rebekah Brooks, the News Corp. 
executive removed last week amid the U.K. phone-hacking scandal,
was arrested by police as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Rupert Murdoch  made a fresh apology in national newspapers.  Brooks, 43, attended a  London  police station voluntarily by
pre-arranged appointment, her spokesman  David Wilson  said today
in a phone interview. Police said in an e-mailed statement they
arrested a 43-year-old woman on suspicion of corruption and 
conspiring to intercept communications.  The escalating crisis around the News of the World has
within two weeks forced the closure of the 168-year-old tabloid
and the resignation of executives including Brooks, CEO of the 
News International U.K. publishing unit, and its former Chairman
 Les Hinton . Murdoch last week withdrew a 7.8 billion pound 
($12.6 billion) bid for full control of British Sky Broadcasting 
Group Plc amid opposition from U.K. politicians.  “He has too much power over British public life,”
Opposition Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  said in an interview
with the Observer newspaper today, calling for a breakup of the
80-year-old’s media empire. “We’ve got to look at the situation
whereby one person can own more than 20 percent of the newspaper
market, the Sky platform and Sky News. I think it’s unhealthy.”  Under the headline “Putting right what’s gone wrong,”
News International said it’s the company’s obligation to provide
full cooperation with the police and compensation for those 
affected. The publisher is “committed to change” and said 
“apologising for our mistakes and fixing them are only the 
first steps.”  July 19 Hearing  In advertisements in its own and rival U.K. newspapers for
a second day, News International said there should be “no place
to hide” from the police investigation into phone hacking.
Yesterday, the company issued an apology in similar ads signed
by Murdoch, the chairman and CEO of New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)   News International also manages The Sun tabloid, the Times
of London and the Sunday Times.  Murdoch has been in London since July 10 as the scandal
escalated and politicians of all parties called on him and his
son, James, to take responsibility for a crisis that has spread
beyond the U.K.  The Murdochs and Brooks are scheduled to appear before a
panel of U.K. lawmakers on July 19. John Whittingdale, chairman
of the U.K. cross-party parliamentary committee, said Brooks may
be interviewed separately.  “Now that Brooks is no longer an employee of News Corp. we
will probably want to talk to her separately,” Whittingdale
told the  BBC ’s Andrew Marr program today.  Market Values Slide  News Corp. will take over from News International a
committee set up to work with police over the phone-hacking
scandal, according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Simon
Greenberg , corporate affairs director at News International, and
General Manager Will Lewis will be employed full time by the
management and standards committee, which will report to  Joel
Klein , Murdoch’s top adviser, and Viet Dinh on behalf of News
Corp.’s independent directors, said the people, who asked not to
be identified. An announcement may be made as early as tomorrow,
they said.  Hinton, chairman of News International in the years the
alleged phone hacking occurred, stepped down as head of the Dow
Jones division on July 15. That followed the exit of Brooks, who
was editor of the News of the World, the newspaper implicated in
the scandal, from 2000 to 2003, which was closed down last week.  Market Value  The Dow Jones Special Committee said in a statement it
didn’t see any relationship between Hinton’s resignation and his
tenure at Dow Jones or the Wall Street Journal, where he was the
publisher. The committee was formed in 2007 to monitor
journalistic integrity and independence at the newspaper.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  About $4.4 billion has been wiped off News Corp.’s market
value, and 2.5 billion pounds for BSkyB, since the Guardian
reported on July 4 that the News of the World in 2002 hacked
into the voice mails of kidnap and murder victim Milly Dowler
and deleted messages. The allegations have extended to include
victims of terrorism including the Sept. 11, 2001, attack.  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation , prodded by members of
Congress, began looking into whether News Corp. employees may
have targeted the phones of victims of the Sept. 11 attacks.  U.S. Representative  Peter King , the Republican chairman of
the House Committee on  Homeland Security , asked FBI Director
Robert Mueller in a July 13 letter to investigate whether News
of the World employees tried to access voicemails belonging to
the victims through bribery and illegal wiretapping.  Sienna Miller   In two cases settled by the company, News Corp. agreed to
pay actress Sienna Miller 100,000 pounds in June, while sports
commentator Andy Gray received 20,000 pounds.  News Corp. could end up paying a total of 120 million
pounds in damages and legal fees, says Niri Shan, a media lawyer
at U.K. law firm Taylor Wessing. Shan based that figure on an
average settlement of 30,000 pounds for each of the 4,000
victims identified by police. “More people are going to come
forward. News Corp.’s exposure is massive,” Shan said.  BSkyB’s independent directors will consult with
shareholders over the next 10 days about whether  James Murdoch 
should continue as chairman, the Sunday Times reported, without
citing anyone. The discussions will be led by Nick Ferguson,
chairman of SVG Capital, according to the report. A call to
BSkyB spokesman Robert Fraser’s mobile phone wasn’t answered.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Mike Harrison at 
 mharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  