-- 
Politics, Not Economics, Drives Anti-Tax Stand: Albert R. Hunt

-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 
2011-07-17T15:00:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/politics-not-economics-drives-anti-tax-stand-albert-r-hunt.html
Vice President  Joe Biden , in the
heat of the high-level budget deliberations, told Republicans
that their intransigence over taxes was a matter of ideology not
economics. It’s also about coalitions and contributors.  Congressional Republicans rejected a grand-bargain deficit-
reduction plan that would have slashed spending, including on
entitlements, while raising revenue. Higher taxes, charged
Republicans such as House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of
 Virginia , would be a job killer in a struggling economy. Cantor
pulled the rug out from the efforts of his fellow Republican,
House Speaker  John Boehner , and Democratic President  Barack Obama , to strike this historic deal.  It was about politics not jobs.  Both  Ronald Reagan  and  Bill Clinton  engineered big tax
increases that were followed by robust economic gains.
Politically, however, tax cuts are the glue that holds together
the Republican coalition. It used to be anti-communism, until
the  Berlin Wall  came down.  There’s still a divide on social issues, and even a number
of anti-abortion or anti-gay rights Republicans don’t consider
these questions priorities. With the wars in Afghanistan and
 Libya , it’s tough to distinguish between the foreign-policy
positions of conservatives and those of liberals.  Norquist Pledge  There is no such confusion when it comes to taxes. With
enforcers such as the anti-tax crusader Grover Norquist looking
over their shoulders, Republican politicians know that if they
even entertain the idea of higher taxes, they throw away any
national ambitions, may be threatened in a primary, and, if in a
position of leadership, face a revolt from the rank and file.  The political hero for these conservatives is Reagan, who
did slash taxes his first year as president. What the Eric
Cantors of the world don’t know or ignore is that in 1982 -- in
the midst of what was then the worst economic downturn since the
Depression -- Reagan approved the largest peacetime tax increase
in history. On Sept. 3, 1982, the day he signed the tax hike,
the jobless rate was 10.1 percent.  In today’s dollars, TEFRA (The Tax Equity and Fiscal
Responsibilities Act) and an accompanying small increase in gas
taxes would have raised the equivalent of almost $1 trillion
dollars over 10 years.  The result: the economy boomed in 1983 and 1984, and that
year, Reagan successfully ran for re-election on the theme of
“Morning in America.” (Reagan also approved three more major
tax increases, starting with higher Social Security levies in
1983).  Bush Tax Cuts  Then there is the contrast between Clinton and President
 George W. Bush  on taxes. In 1993, Clinton engineered an increase,
mainly affecting the wealthy; eight years later, Bush won a huge
cut and followed that with more reductions two years later.  The Eric Cantors of those days were certain of what would
occur. The Bush tax cuts would stimulate the economy and
generate lots of jobs. Dick Armey, the House Republican leader,
said the Clinton increase was a “job killer” and House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich  predicted it would lead to a recession.  The results: 23 million new jobs were generated during the
Clinton presidency; 3 million under George W. Bush. Republicans
insist there were extenuating circumstances. A year after
Clinton’s tax increase, when the jobless rate had dropped to 6
percent from 7.6 percent, Armey gave the credit to the  Federal
Reserve .  Ron Johnson , a current Tea-Party-backed Republican
freshman senator from  Wisconsin , says all those job gains of the
1990s were due to Reagan’s policies of the previous decade.  Growth and Jobs  Few would equate higher taxes with economic growth. The
experiences of the 1980s and 1990s, however, eviscerate the
contention that tax hikes are automatically job killers or tax
cuts automatic engines of growth.  Even if the tax-cuts-are-sacred argument is a policy
failure, it remains a political winner in the  Republican Party .
It’s a coalescing and defining issue, and a big element in
drumming up campaign contributions.  The conservative talk-radio host Rush Limbaugh, a major
force in today’s Republican Party, warned that if congressional
Republicans agreed to more taxes “you can say good-bye to the
 Republican National Committee ,” which would “implode” as
donors fled.  Nowhere is this dogma more in evidence than in the
passionate Republican efforts over the years to eliminate or
reduce the estate tax paid by wealthy heirs.  Last December, Senator Jon Kyl of  Arizona  and other
Republicans told the White House there could be no short-term
stimulus deal without a more generous estate tax revision: One
that would exempt $10 million for a couple, with a maximum 35
percent rate, rather than a $7 million exemption, with a 45
percent rate.  Fundraising Appeal  Over two years, that difference was a tax break of more
than $13 billion for the wealthiest one-tenth of 1 percent of
estates. It has great fundraising appeal. During a campaign to
maintain the estate tax several years ago, some universities
argued that that higher exemptions and lower rates would
adversely affect charitable contributions. Wealthy trustees,
however, successfully pressured them to stay on the sidelines.  The message of estate-tax opponents is that it hurts small
businesses and family farms. Michael Graetz, a Columbia
University Law professor, a former tax official in the George
H.W. Bush Treasury Department and the author of a book on the
estate tax, dismisses these arguments. He suggests restoring the
lower exemption and higher rate and excluding all legitimate
small businesses and family farms. There would be few Republican
takers for that proposal.  Taxes and Cuts  There is a consensus that the U.S. has a long-term chronic
debt problem. There’s also a consensus, among serious experts
and every bipartisan commission that has studied the issue, that
it can be addressed only with cutbacks in the growth of
entitlements such as Medicare and with higher taxes.  In the intense negotiations with Boehner, Obama became the
first top Democratic leader in modern times to consider
significant changes in entitlements. The result could have been
a real grand bargain on  deficit reduction  -- with $3 of spending
cuts for every $1 of revenue increases -- while achieving a
long-held Republican dream of curbing entitlements on a
bipartisan basis.  That sweeping achievement, Cantor and Republican rank-and-
file members concluded, wasn’t worth giving up the tax cut glue
that guides their politics.  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 