-- 
Record S&P 500 Return on Equity Over Bond Yields Spurs Bulls

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-07-18T20:08:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/record-return-on-equity-over-bond-yields-spurring-m-a-bull-credit-suisse.html
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies are returning more than ever in earnings compared with
their borrowing costs, a signal that takeovers and  capital
spending  will help investors overcome a slowing U.S. economy.  Return on equity, a measure of profits relative to
investments in plants and labor, rose to 24 percent last month,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At the same time, a
gauge of corporate bond yields fell to 3.61 percent, according
to Barclays Plc. That’s the biggest difference in at least 13
years, the data show.  Cost cuts and the lowest Federal Reserve interest rates on
record are creating an unprecedented opportunity for executives
to boost earnings by buying other companies or expanding their
own businesses, according to Credit Suisse Asset Management. For
BNP Paribas Investment Partners, low borrowing costs and high
rates of return are a sign profits will overshadow the economy
and  budget deficit , spurring more gains in the  S&P 500 .  “Because the spread is so high and the value of M&A deals
is still low compared to what we’ve seen in the past, it means
we can expect that there’s going to a very decent volume of
activity,” said William De Vijlder, who oversees $778 billion
as the global chief investment officer of Paris-based BNP
Paribas Investment Partners. “You should see people factor in a
premium for takeover candidates, and that would increase the
price-to-earnings multiple for stocks.”  Widening Out  The last time the difference was at similar levels, the S&P
500 was eight months into a  bull market  in which it doubled in
five years. The gap between return on equity and yields narrowed
in October 2008, a month after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
collapsed and quarterly profit for companies in the S&P 500 was
tumbling 61 percent.  The potential to make profitable buyouts is increasing,
according to Vijlder. He’s betting on a rebound in equities this
year as economic growth accelerates and President  Barack Obama 
reaches an agreement with lawmakers over raising the $14.3
trillion federal debt limit.  Takeovers totaled $160.4 billion between April and June,
about the same amount since the end of 2009, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s less than half the total in the
second quarter of 2007, when the S&P 500 climbed as high as
1,539.18.  Worst Recession  The worst recession in seven decades spurred chief
executive officers to cut staff and close factories, sending
estimates for margins, or net income divided by sales, up by
more than 50 percent since 2009, the biggest increase on record,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Corporate profits have been
helped after the Fed kept its target rate for overnight loans
between banks near zero since December 2008.  The S&P 500 dropped 2.1 percent to 1,316.14 last week after
Moody’s Investors Service and S&P placed the U.S. credit rating
under review for a downgrade and sovereign debt concerns spread
from  Greece  to Italy and Ireland. The index slumped 0.8 percent
to 1,305.44 today, before more than 100 companies in the S&P 500
release quarterly results this week.  “The environment at the moment is quite volatile, but we
still have quite an optimistic view on the market, and one of
the drivers should be more M&A,” said Adrian Zuercher, who
helps oversee $150 billion in asset allocation strategies at
Credit Suisse Asset Management in Zurich. “M&A is usually done
at a premium, so it shows increasing demand for equities, and
then there’s a new buyer in the market.”  Paring Losses  The S&P 500 trimmed its weekly loss on July 15, rising 0.6
percent, following takeovers.  Petrohawk Energy Corp. (HK)  rallied 62
percent after  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining
company, agreed to buy the Houston-based natural gas producer
for $14.9 billion.  Clorox Co. (CLX)  gained 8.9 percent on the same day
as billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  offered $11.6 billion to
purchase the Oakland, California-based maker of bleach.  Zuercher says S&P 500 companies will use cash for deals.
Excluding financial institutions, the group has $788.8 billion,
according to data compiled by Westport, Connecticut-based
Birinyi Associates Inc.  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH)  and  Temple-Inland Inc. (TIN) 
have surged more than 36 percent since receiving bids this year.  More gains in stocks are unlikely because the housing
market and rising unemployment will prove a drag on the economy,
according to Michael Vogelzang, who oversees $1.9 billion as
chief investment officer at Boston Advisors LLC. He said he’s
“underweight” equities and bullish on gold.  ‘Big Problem’  “We don’t see any catalyst for upside given all the
problems on the horizon,” Vogelzang said in Bloomberg
Television interview. “Our big problem starts with housing and
it ends with unemployment, and until those two things get taken
care of, we’re going to have a tough time.”  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4 percent in April from a year earlier, the biggest drop in
17 months, according to data released June 28. The U.S.
unemployment rate rose to 9.2 percent in June, the highest level
this year, the Labor Department said July 8.  The S&P 500 has decreased 3.5 percent since climbing to a
high of 1,363.61 on April 29 amid concern economic growth is
faltering. Economists’ median forecast for growth in U.S. gross
domestic product in 2011 has dropped to 2.5 percent from 2.7
percent in May, and the median for 2012 has declined to 2.9
percent from 3.1 percent, according to Bloomberg surveys.  GDP Slowdown  Concern a slowdown in GDP will constrict earnings has held
equity valuations below historical levels. The S&P 500 trades
for 13.2 times analysts’ estimate for profit this year, 9.7
percent less than the average since the start of 2006, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Income in the gauge will climb to
an all-time high of $106.60 a share in the next 12 months,
estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  Biotechnology companies in the S&P 500 have gained 9.4
percent since March 29, when  Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX) ,  Canada ’s largest drugmaker, made a $5.7
billion hostile bid for Cephalon. The deal for the Frazer,
Pennsylvania-based producer of pain medication was trumped by a
$6.8 billion offer from  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the
world’s biggest generic-drug maker.  Temple-Inland has jumped to the highest level since October
2007 after  International Paper Co. (IP)  made a $3.31 billion
unsolicited bid for the Austin, Texas-based manufacturer of
containerboard on June 6. Today, Temple-Inland’s board said it
rejected the proposal from the largest pulp-and-paper maker.  Smaller Companies  Speculation that smaller companies may be acquired is
spurring bigger gains for the  Russell 2000 Index (RTY) , said  Don Wordell  of Atlanta-based RidgeWorth Capital Management, which
oversees $48 billion. The Russell 2000 of companies with a
median market value of $547.5 million has risen 5.8 percent this
year, compared with the 4.7 percent gain for S&P 500 stocks,
which have a median worth of $12 billion.  Wordell said he’s betting on an increase in U.S. takeovers
over the next two to three years and purchased shares of  Lazard
Ltd. (LAZ)  in the past month. The Hamilton, Bermuda-based merger
adviser has fallen 15 percent this year, pushing its valuation
to 14.1 times estimated 2011 profit, Bloomberg data show.  “If large companies can’t grow organically, then they can
go out and buy growth, and it’s really teeing up beautifully for
them right now with borrowing costs being as low as they are,”
said Wordell, who runs the RidgeWorth Mid-Cap Value Equity Fund
that’s beaten 93 percent of its peers in the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “I absolutely think
it’s a theme that you’ll see.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in  Hong Kong  at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  