-- 
Trichet Says Europe Can Resolve Its Debt Crisis by Showing Determination

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 
2011-07-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/trichet-says-europe-can-surmount-sovereign-debt-crisis-euro-not-in-danger.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said  Europe  can surmount its sovereign debt
crisis by showing the will and determination to do so.  “Naturally the Europeans can manage the issue,” Trichet
said in an interview with the Financial Times Deutschland,
according to a transcript released yesterday by the Frankfurt-
based ECB. “It is not a question of technique. It is a question
of will and determination.”  Trichet said the euro is not in danger and remains “a
highly credible currency.” He reiterated that the ECB will not
accept as collateral bonds from a nation that defaults.  “If a country defaults, we can no longer accept as normal
eligible collateral defaulted bonds issued by the government of
that country,” Trichet said. “Because, in the eyes of the
Governing Council, this would impair our ability to be an anchor
of confidence and stability.”  In the event of a decision leading to a selective default
or a default, “the governments would have to take care that the
Eurosystem is presented collateral that it could accept,” he
said.  Asked if German Chancellor Angela Merkel has acted too
slowly during the crisis, Trichet replied: “Not in the least. I
would see a discussion of this kind as being completely
misplaced in the current situation.”  Leaders will meet July 21 in Brussels to discuss “the
financial stability of the euro area as a whole and the future
financing of the Greek program,” European Union President Herman
van Rompuy said in a July 15 statement. Among topics for the
talks is a potential overhaul of the 440-bllion euro ($623
billion) rescue fund to enable  Greece  to better pay its bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  