-- 
Russia’s RTS-Index Futures Gain as Crude Advances for Third Week

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-07-17T20:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/russia-s-rts-index-futures-gain-as-crude-advances-for-third-week.html
Russia ’s RTS stock-index futures
advanced as crude rose for a third consecutive week and
contracts for VTB Bank gained on optimism it will benefit from
the government’s bailout of Bank of Moscow.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September gained 0.3 percent to 193,270.  Contracts on VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest lender,
rose 0.3 percent. Bank of Moscow will start receiving bailout
funds from the Deposit Insurance Agency this week, VTB Group
Chairman Andrey Kostin said July 15.  “VTB rose on expectations the worst is behind it for the
bank after the government’s bailout of Bank of Moscow,” Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at Alforma Capital Markets, the New York
branch of Russia’s Alfa Bank, said in a telephone interview.
“Also, crude held up pretty well through the week given the
uncertain macro environment.”  Interfax reported that VTB posted net income of 22.12
billion rubles ($788 million) for the first six months of the
year. The company is scheduled to officially release the results
today.  Agreements on OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest gas
producer, rose 0.2 percent and OAO Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil
producer, gained 0.3 percent.  Crude for August delivery rose 1.6 percent to settle at
$97.24 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Russia is
the world’s largest energy exporter. Oil and natural gas
represent a quarter of its economic output.  The euro fell for a second week against the dollar after
eight banks failed the European Union stress tests and Ireland
was downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service. Some investors buy
dollar-denominated assets to protect value when the dollar
weakens against the euro and sell them when the dollar gains.  The 30-stock  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  was little changed at 1,714.60 in
Moscow on July 15, giving it a weekly loss of 0.6 percent, the
gauge’s first since June 26. U.S. stocks rose as the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in New York at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  