-- 
Sabic Sales Rise to Record in Second Quarter on Higher Exports, Oil Prices

-- B y   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n   a n d   T a m a r a   W a l i d
-- 
2011-07-17T13:25:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/sabic-posts-second-quarter-revenue-of-49-billion-riyals-cfo-says.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s largest petrochemicals company, reported record revenue
in the second quarter as exports rose and crude oil traded at a
two-year high amid rising demand from  Asia .  Saudi Basic, majority owned by the kingdom’s government,
had a revenue of 49 billion riyals ($13 billion) in the quarter,
Chief Financial Officer Mutlaq Al-Morished told reporters in
 Riyadh  today. The median estimate of three analysts was for a
revenue of 46.3 billion riyals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Saudi petrochemical companies have started to recover from
the global financial crisis as oil prices surged and demand from
fast-growing Asian economies including China and  India 
increased. Saudi Arabia’s annual petrochemicals exports climbed
39 percent to 4.8 billion riyals in May, according to data
posted on the Saudi Ports Authority website.  Saudi Basic, also known as Sabic, said yesterday second-
quarter profit jumped 61 percent to 8.1 billion riyals as
production, sales volumes and prices increased. The median
estimate of four analysts was for 7.72 billion riyals, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue was 38.86 billion riyals
in the second quarter of last year and 44.87 billion riyals in
the first quarter of 2011.  The company’s revenue was unaffected by the financial
conditions in the U.S. and the earthquakes in  Japan , Chief
Executive Officer Mohamed Al-Mady said today. “Inventory levels
are still good so we don’t have any reason to believe that the
demand will be sluggish,” he said.  ‘Peaked’  “Earnings may have peaked in the second-quarter of 2011
and we expect relatively weaker performance in the second half,
as the slowdown in China’s demand weigh on global chemicals
prices,” Ahmed Shams El Din, director of equity research at
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE, said today. He has a “buy” rating on
the stock with a price estimate of 133 riyals.  The shares closed unchanged at 104 riyals in Riyadh today
after gaining 1.4 percent. The stock has dropped 0.7 percent
this year compared with a 2.4 percent decline in the benchmark
Tadawul All Share Index. BASF SE, the world’s largest chemical
company, increased 14 percent in the same period.  The current range of  oil prices  is good for Sabic and the
company’s preferred crude price is about $100 a barrel, Al-Mady
said. Oil prices averaged $102.41 a barrel in the second quarter
and closed at $97.24 on July 15. Saudi Arabia is the world’s
biggest exporter of crude oil.  “You can’t take things in absolute terms; you have to see
also the currency you go with and what the dollar situation is
at the time,” said Al Mady. “Maybe $100 is good today because
the dollar is appreciating.”  Acquisitions  Sabic wants to grow by adding capabilities in specialty
chemicals organically and through acquisitions, CFO Morished
said when asked about the company’s future strategy. He didn’t
provide further details on acquisitions.  The company’s last acquisition was in 2007 when it bought
General Electric Co.’s plastics unit, now Sabic Innovative
Plastics, for $11.6 billion. Since then, Sabic has been active
in joint ventures with companies including  China  Petroleum &
Chemical Corp., Asia’s largest oil refiner known as Sinopec.  Sabic and other Middle East chemicals makers are “in the
best strategic position since the industry was established” due
to high sales prices and low feedstock costs, Nomura Holdings
Inc. said in June. The petrochemical producers can “cherry
pick” acquisitions internationally or choose projects within
the region, Nomura said.  Refinancing  Sabic is refinancing some of its loans with cheaper rates
and the company is under no pressure to tap the  debt market  to
finance its expansion plans, Al-Mady said. The company raised $1
billion from selling bonds in October.  The company plans to build two petrochemicals plants in the
Jubail Industrial City in  Saudi Arabia  along with Mitsubishi
Rayon Co., and a polycarbonate facility in Tianjin, China with
China Petroleum & Chemical Corp.  “Once we award these contracts, we will go to banks for
loans or sukuk or whatever is cheaper for us,” Al-Mady said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net ;
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  