-- 
Samoa Signals Rugby World Cup Danger With 32-23 Upset Win Over Australia

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-18T01:04:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/samoa-upsets-second-ranked-australia-32-23-in-one-off-rugby-test-in-sydney.html
Samoa stunned  Australia  32-23 to
secure what players and coaches said was the Pacific Island
team’s greatest rugby victory and signal its potential for
further upsets at this year’s  World Cup .  Samoa, the 12-1 outsider with bookmakers for yesterday’s
match, outscored the second-ranked Wallabies by four tries to
two in Sydney for its first win over Australia in five attempts.
Ranked  10th  by the International Rugby Board, Samoa had only
managed a total of 26 points in the four previous meetings.  “This is something special, a win like this creates
history for Samoa,” Samoa captain Mahonri Schwalger told
reporters. “I’m lost for words.”  While the island nation with a population of about 180,000
had previously upset  Wales  at the 1991 and 1999 Rugby World
Cups, it was Samoa’s first victory against one of the four
countries to have won the sport’s quadrennial championship.  This year’s World Cup in New Zealand is scheduled to begin
Sept. 9 and Samoa and Australia could meet in the last eight.  “Our goal is to make the quarterfinals,” Samoa assistant
coach Brian McLean said at a news conference. “The way things
are set up if we finish second in our pool and Australia win
their pool then we would meet them in Wellington in the
quarterfinals. We’ve kept a few things back.”  The Wallabies, who handed four players their Test debuts,
failed to build on the momentum gained from the  Queensland Reds ’
victory over  New Zealand ’s Canterbury Crusaders in the July 9
Super Rugby final as they were overpowered by the Samoans in the
tackle and at the breakdown.  Physical Exchanges  “We got beaten in terms of the physical exchanges,” said
Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans . “They defended strongly, knocked
a lot of ball out, attacked the breakdown effectively and turned
ball over and then profited off that.”  Winger Alesana Tuilagi, full-back  Paul Williams , second-
rower Kane Thompson and outside center George Pisi all touched
down for Samoa, which had kept Australia scoreless until the
38th minute. Tusi Pisi kicked Samoa’s other points.  Fly-half  Matt Giteau  scored 18 points for the Wallabies
including a 71st-minute try. Winger Digby Ioane also touched
down for Australia, which won by 67 points when the teams last
met in 2005 and by 70 points nine years earlier.  “That’s not the way I pictured my Test debut,” said
Wallabies wing  Rod Davies , who was called into the starting
lineup two days ago after  James O’Connor  was ruled out because
of a hamstring injury. “The only way is up from here and to go
back to the drawing board and look for the positives.”  World Cup Warning  Samoa’s performance will have put the other World Cup teams
on notice, said Wallabies inside center  Pat McCabe . The Samoans
are grouped with  South Africa , Wales, Fiji and  Namibia  in Pool D
at the 20-team tournament.  “They’ll be extremely dangerous,” McCabe told reporters.
“Anytime they can be as physical as they were today I think
they’re going to threaten any side in the world.”  The Wallabies have a six-day turnaround before returning to
ANZ Stadium on July 23 to open the Tri-Nations against South
Africa as they seek to get their season back on track.  Australia plays the Springboks and All Blacks home and away
before opening its bid for a third World Cup title on Sept. 11
against Italy.  “We’re just starting,” Deans said. “It’s given us an
awakening in terms of what’s going to be required to be
competitive within six days. We know what we’re entering and
we’ve got to get up there.”  ‘No Short Cuts’  John Eales, a World Cup winner with Australia in 1991 and
1999, said the Wallabies played into  Samoa ’s hands by kicking to
touch in the opening minutes rather than trying for the three
points on offer for a penalty goal.  “Subconsciously they sent a message that this was a game
they expected to win,” Eales wrote in today’s Australian
Financial Review. “There are no short cuts to victory, and
there is no victory if you do not respect the basics.”  By defending its nine-point lead in the closing eight
minutes, Samoa secured a victory over a so-called Tier One rugby
nation after going close on November’s tour of  Europe , where it
lost 20-10 to Ireland and got within three points of  Scotland .  “Today for us was about respect, we wanted to get some
respect and hopefully we’ve done that,” McLean said.  For head coach Titimaea Tafua, the win means more.  “It’s history to us, beating the No. 2 team in the
world,” Tafua said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes at Sydney’s ANZ Stadium at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  