-- 
Sberbank Enters Ex-Satellites as $13 Billion East Europe Bank Deals Loom

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l ,   M a r t a   W a l d o c h   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-07-18T06:23:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/sberbank-enters-ex-satellites-as-13-billion-east-europe-bank-deals-loom.html
OAO Sberbank, Russia’s biggest
lender, is aspiring to become a regional player in the fast-
growing central European market, where lenders worth as much as
9 billion euros ($13 billion) may go on sale in the coming
years.  Sberbank agreed on July 14 to buy a network of nine small
banks in countries including the Czech Republic, Slovakia,
 Hungary  and most of former  Yugoslavia  from Austria’s
 Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG. (VBPS)  Chief Executive Officer German Gref said this was only the first step in making Sberbank a
“global bank” by using the new group as a platform for further
acquisitions in eastern  Europe  and  Turkey .  Gref is targeting a region dominated by western Europe-
based banks.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI)  and  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA are among the biggest
lenders by assets in the former communist bloc after building
cross-country networks in the two decades since the fall of the
Iron Curtain.  Volksbanken was a unique opportunity for Gref to match at
least their geographic footprint and establish a base for
further expansion. With banks including  KBC Groep NV (KBC) ,  Banco
Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  and Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG
potentially selling assets from Poland to  Serbia , he will have
plenty of options to tuck into more deals.  Bolster Finances  “There is something changing substantially and Sberbank’s
acquisition of VBI is part of it,” said Hugo Swann, a banking
analyst at Credit Suisse AG. “We are going to see a number of
assets changing hands in the next few years, probably sooner.
It’s a good opportunity for some banks to take up market
share.”  The possible sellers in the region include those looking to
bolster their finances as they face the challenges of their home
countries’ escalating debt. That, along with the need for some
to repay bailout funds or meet state aid conditions imposed by
European Union regulators, may spur deals.  Transactions will mostly be led by either a change in the
strategy of the acquiring bank linked to a decision to enter the
region or macroeconomic pressures in the parent company’s
country, said Artur Tomala, who heads central and eastern
European operations at Goldman Sachs International.  On top of that, big participants present in many of the
region’s countries such as UniCredit or Raiffeisen are already
reviewing their operations, and may sell units that lack scale,
Credit Suisse’s Swann said.  Growth Market  “We have seen UniCredit talk about a strategic review of
their business, changing their focus slightly to fewer markets
with greater market share,” he said in a telephone interview.
“We will see other banks taking a view as to where they are
going to be, giving up market share in some countries and
gaining in others.”  As potential buyers, western banks may still be tempted by
faster growth in eastern Europe than in their home markets. The
euro area is projected to grow 2 percent this year and 1.7
percent in 2012, according to the  International Monetary Fund .
That’s less than half the rate forecast for central and eastern
Europe of 5.3 percent this year and 3.2 percent in 2012.  On top of that, products from credit cards to loans and
mortgages are still less widely used. Bank assets as a
percentage of gross domestic product were at 83 percent in
Poland, 115 percent in Hungary and 124 percent in the  Czech
Republic , compared with 338 percent in the euro area in 2009,
according to UniCredit.  New Markets  For Sberbank, which has been busy managing the rapid growth
in its home market followed by the financial crisis in the last
decade, the region now offers the potential to boost earnings,
said Vladimir Savov, a banking analyst at Otkritie Financial
Corp. in Moscow.  For Russian banks “there was virtually no need to look to
other markets” in the years starting 2000, Savov said. “Then
the crisis came, and over the last two-to-three years dealing
with the problems of this exponential growth was the main
concern.”  “Now that the crisis is over, one thing is clear: the
local banking market will grow at a more moderate pace, and has
already become more competitive,” he added. Banks are now
looking for opportunities to “access other markets in order to
boost their earnings and return on equity.”  International Appetite  VTB,  Russia ’s second biggest lender, that operates in
Belarus and Ukraine and, after its acquisition of Bank of
Moscow, in Serbia, does not plan to boost its presence in
eastern Europe at least in the next two years as it seeks to
concentrate on strengthening its existing operations, said
Ekaterina Petelina, head of strategy and corporate development
at VTB Group in Moscow.  “The most successful Russian banks are likely to show
appetite for international development,” Petelina said. “This
will largely happen via acquisitions as developing this business
from the ground up is very difficult.”  Sberbank’s Gref, who has hired former UniCredit CEO
Alessandro Profumo to advise on his expansion in the region,
told reporters in Moscow that the Volksbanken purchase was his
“first step in transforming Sberbank into a global bank.”
Apart from eastern Europe, he’s also targeting Turkey, Gref
said.  Fertile Ground  While VBI isn’t among the top five banks in any of its
major markets, it gives Sberbank a basis on which to build,
Credit Suisse’s Swann said. Sberbank’s actions make “a lot of
sense in that they are getting a foothold in a lot of countries
and can then bolt on further deals over the next couple of
years,” he said.  Banking takeovers in central Europe picked up in 2010 after
the financial crisis curbed asset sales in the previous two
years. Acquisitions exceeded $13 billion in 2010, four times the
level of a year earlier, led by  Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s 4.2
billion-euro purchase of  Bank Zachodni WBK SA (BZW) ,  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK) ’s Polish unit, data compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Deal values were more than twice the 2010 level in 2006,
when $29 billion of emerging European banks were sold. Buyers
paid about 3.8 times book value on average that year, compared
with 1.6 times last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “A lot of these markets, such as Poland or Ukraine, are
very competitive -- the offering of banking services is
comparable to that in western Europe, and entering them requires
significant investment,” VTB’s Petelina said.  Greek Sales  Greece ’s  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  this year agreed to sell
a majority stake in its Poland-based Polbank unit to Raiffeisen
Bank for 490 million euros to boost capital. The deal will help
Vienna-based Raiffeisen, eastern Europe’s third-biggest lender,
to almost double its assets in Poland, where it previously
wasn’t among the top ten banks. Eurobank also seeks to sell its
Turkish unit Eurobank Tekfen, it said last week.  “Before the crisis a lot of banks grew their loan books
pretty quickly across eastern Europe, now some of those are
facing funding and capital shortfalls,” Credit Suisse’s Swann
said. “In some ways the Greek banks are examples of this.”  Banco Comercial, based in Porto, may also have to sell  Bank
Millennium SA (MIL)  in Poland, analysts including Paul Formanko at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. have said. The Portuguese lender must reach
a core Tier 1 ratio of 10 percent next year, and said on May 23
it would “analyze” its international operations for reaching
that goal. A company spokesman reiterated last week it has no
intention of leaving Poland.  EU Rules  KBC, the recipient of a 7 billion-euro bailout from the
Belgian government, plans to sell its Polish bank and insurance
units  Kredyt Bank SA (KRB)  and Warta SA, the Brussels-based company
said last week. It is seeking offers of about 2.5 billion euros
for the stakes, two people with knowledge of the matter said
last month. The sale is part of a restructuring plan agreed with
the European Union because of the state aid.  For the same reason,  Germany ’s Bayerische Landesbank and
Austria’s Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG are selling
their businesses in eastern Europe. BayernLB’s MKB, Hungary’s
fourth-biggest bank, may be worth almost 1 billion euros based
on the price-to-book multiples of 1.2 of Hungarian market leader
OTP Bank Nyrt. Hypo Alpe, the third-biggest lender in former
Yugoslavia, said in February the book value of its business in
Croatia, Serbia, Slovenia, Montenegro and Bosnia-Hercegovina was
1.5 billion euros.  Apart from Sberbank, European and global banks such as HSBC
Bank Plc may be looking at assets in Poland, according to Miklos Kormos, Deutsche Bank AG’s head of  investment banking  for
central and eastern Europe.  In Poland, “the economy never slipped into recession,”
Kormos said in an interview. “The banks themselves have a
relatively stable capital base. It’s appealing both from the
growth perspective and asset and capital perspective.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Marta Waldoch in Warsaw at 
 mwaldoch@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  