-- 
Southwest Pilot Unions Reach Accord on Seniority List

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-07-19T17:23:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/southwest-airtran-pilots-unions-reach-labor-agreement-on-seniority-list.html
(Corrects last paragraph of story published July 17 to
remove reference to airline union official not affiliated with
Southwest or AirTran.)  Unions representing pilots for
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and AirTran Holdings Inc. reached an
agreement for a combined seniority list, avoiding arbitration as
Southwest works to integrate the carrier it acquired in May.  The Southwest Airlines Pilots Association and the Air Line
Pilots Association reached an agreement in principle to create
the list, Dallas-based Southwest said in a statement.  The accord governs how AirTran pilots will be placed into
Southwest’s seniority list, which determines their pay,
schedules and routes. It’s the first of six such agreements that
must be completed between labor unions representing various
groups of workers for the two airlines, said Paul Flaningan, a
spokesman for Southwest.  “It’s really a big milestone for the pilots to come to
this agreement in principle,” Flaningan said. “It gives a
signal to the other unions that everyone is moving forward with
the integration.”  Southwest is working to obtain a certificate from the
 Federal Aviation Administration  to operate as a single carrier,
he said, and expects to have it by mid-2012.  Avoiding Arbitration  “The unions and company negotiating teams have
accomplished a task that is rare in this industry,” resolving
seniority issues without requiring outside arbitration,
Southwest’s Chief Operating Officer Michael Van de Ven said in
the statement. The agreement is subject to approval by the
unions’ boards and members.  Southwest completed a $1 billion cash-and-stock purchase of
 Orlando , Florida-based AirTran on May 2, adding international
flights for the first time and service to Atlanta’s Hartsfield-
Jackson Atlanta International Airport, the world’s busiest.  Calls to Neal Hanks, a spokesman for the Southwest Airlines
Pilots Association, weren’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  