-- 
EU Bank Stress Tests Missing Sovereign Defaults Fail to Convince Analysts

-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-07-18T15:48:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/stress-tests-missing-sovereign-default-fail-to-convince-analysts.html
European banks may have to raise as
much as 80 billion euros ($112 billion) of additional capital as
the stress tests failed to allay investor concern about a Greek
default and governments’ ability to bail out their lenders.  The eight banks that failed out of the 90 tested on July 15
had only a combined capital shortfall of 2.5 billion euros, the
European Banking Authority said July 15. As many as 20 banks
need to bolster capital, JPMorgan Cazenove analysts led by  Kian Abouhossein  wrote in a report after the results were published.  Regulators didn’t include a Greek default in the tests even
though credit default swaps indicate investors see an almost 90
percent chance of one. The EBA included a 25 percent writedown
on 10-year Greek  government bonds  held in banks’ trading books
even as the securities trade at about 50 cents on the euro. The
exams won’t succeed in reassuring investors until governments
put in place a mechanism to stop failing banks weighing on
public funds, said Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital.  “The EBA are stress-testing the wrong thing,” said  Hank Calenti , a bank strategist at Societe Generale SA in London in a
telephone interview. “They need to be testing the ability of
the  euro zone  to support its banks. It’s firstly a question of
the ability of the sovereign to bail out the banks, and then who
is going to bail out the sovereign.”  Bank Stocks Drop  European bank stocks posted their steepest one-day decline
in almost a year. Lloyds Banking Group Plc and  Banca Monte dei
Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  led the 46-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and
Financial Services Index down 3.2 percent at 4:40 p.m. in London
today. Lloyds tumbled 7.5 percent to 41.35 pence, the lowest
since June 2009, while Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena dropped
7.2 percent to 46.03 cents, a record low.  “The European banking stress test is unlikely to provide
much in terms of assurance to the markets,” said Dirk Hoffmann- Becking, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in a note to clients
today. “Concerns about contagion of the sovereign debt crisis
into core Europe have taken center stage.”  Euro-area government leaders will hold a special summit on
July 21, stepping up efforts to stem the contagion from  Greece .
Leaders are at odds with one another and with the  European
Central Bank  over demands by Germany and  Finland  that private
investors bear some of the burden for a second Greek bailout.  Yields on two-year notes from Ireland,  Portugal  and Greece
hit euro-era records today. Spanish and Italian 10-year bond
yields jumped to the most since the euro’s inception in 1999.  ‘Some Comfort’  “You should probably be stress-testing the sovereigns not
the banks,” said Liverpool, England-based Greenwood. “The only
thing that can ultimately give the markets some comfort is
evidence that the sovereigns themselves have sorted out their
balance sheets.”  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of Ireland Plc passed the
EU’s examinations in 2010, while Anglo Irish Bank Corp. wasn’t
tested. Later that year, a liquidity shortfall caused when
depositors withdrew funds from Irish lenders helped prompt EU
governments and the  International Monetary Fund  to agree on an
85 billion-euro bailout for the country.  Greece’s  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB)  and  Agricultural Bank of
Greece (ATE)  SA,  Austria ’s  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS)  and  Spain ’s
 Banco Pastor SA (PAS) ,  Caja de Ahorros del Mediterraneo (CAM) , Banco Grupo
Caja3, CatalunyaCaixa and Unnim failed this year’s tests. As
many as 16 more will need to bolster capital after their core
Tier 1 ratio dropped below 6 percent, little more than the
assessment’s 5 percent pass-mark, the EBA said.  Stricter Tests  Rating company  Standard & Poor’s  own stress test, published
in March, found European banks would need as much as 250 billion
euros in fresh capital if faced with a “sharp” increase in
yields and a “severe” economic downturn. Investors expected as
many as 15 banks to fail the stress tests and raise 29 billion
euros after the latest assessments, according to a survey by
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. last month.  Based on a stricter 7 percent capital target, and including
writedowns on sovereign debt in the banking book, 20 banks would
need to raise capital, according to JMorgan analysts. U.K. banks
including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  would have a 25 billion-euro
shortfall, French firms including Societe Generale would require
a further 20 billion euros, and German lenders including
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  about 14 billion euros.  ‘Waste of Time’  “I’m quite skeptical that this whole exercise will have
any favorable consequences,” said Cesar Molinas, a former head
of European fixed income at Merrill Lynch & Co. and now an
independent consultant. “It seems to have been something of a
waste of time and money.”  About 20 banks would have failed had they not raised
capital through April, the EBA said. The shortfall would have
totaled 26.8 billion euros without the extra money, the EBA
said. In all, European lenders raised 50 billion euros from
January to April, according to EBA Chairman Andrea Enria.  The evaluations only took into account possible losses only
on government bonds the banks trade, rather than those they are
holding until maturity. Banks have to write down the value of
bonds in their banking book only if there is serious doubt about
a state’s ability to repay in full or make interest payments.  ‘Story Isn’t Over’  “The capital-raising story isn’t over,” said  Christopher Wheeler , a banking analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London. “The
tests haven’t comforted the market. The banks still need to
raise capital in the event of a sovereign default.”  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Deutsche Bank,  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA,  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Societe Generale (GLE) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and Credit
Suisse Group AG are among banks that may have to raise a
combined total of about 62 billion euros in additional capital,
Wheeler said. All the banks passed the EBA’s tests.  The criteria included a review of how the lenders tested
would handle a 0.5 percent economic contraction in the euro area
in 2011, a 15 percent drop in European equity markets and
trading losses on sovereign debt not held to maturity. The EBA
is also carrying out a review of risks to lenders’ liquidity.
The results of that won’t be published.  “We remain worried about the secondary effect of the
sovereign crisis into funding,” the JPMorgan analysts said.
“Funding is the key concern, and without stress liquidity
assumptions, the picture remains incomplete --especially in
current market conditions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  