-- 
Syria Expands Crackdown on Protesters as Fighting Among Factions Kills 30

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-07-17T21:45:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/syrian-troops-expand-crackdown-on-protest-while-30-die-in-fight.html
Syrian troops expanded their
crackdown yesterday against protesters seeking to oust President
Bashar al-Assad, and more than 30 people died in a fight between
pro- and anti-government activists.  Tanks rolled into the central city of Homs and the town of
Zabadani near the border with Lebanon, Al Arabiya television
reported, citing unidentified activists. Troops opened fire at
civilians in the city of Deir Ezzor, injuring 10,  Al Jazeera 
television reported, citing activists.  In Homs, a fight between civilians loyal to and opposed to
the Assad regime killed more than 30 activists in the past 24
hours, said Rami Abdulrahman, head of the Syrian Observatory for
Human Rights, in a telephone interview.  “We were able to get a list of 30 names of civilians
killed in Homs, but the number is higher than that,” he said
from  London .  Soldiers were carried by helicopter to the eastern town of
Al Bukamal, a site of protests near the main crossing point to
neighboring  Iraq , Al Arabiya television reported. The move came
a day after gunmen killed three Syrian security personnel and
abducted two officers in Al Bukamal, the official Syrian Arab
News Agency said today.  Syria ’s protests have posed the biggest threat to Assad
since he inherited power from his father 11 years ago. Syrian
security forces have killed more than 1,700 people since March
and jailed thousands of others, according to human rights
groups. Thousands of Syrians have fled to  Turkey , Lebanon and
Jordan.  More than 300 Syrian activists and dissidents in exile met
in Istanbul over the weekend and voted to form a National
Salvation Council that could form the basis for a transitional
government, the London Telegraph reported.  Libya  Air Strike  In Libya, where leader  Muammar Qaddafi  is clinging to
power amid a months-long NATO military offensive, alliance
aircraft carried out a “major strike” yesterday on a military
depot in Tajura, northeast of Tripoli, the U.K. Ministry of
Defence said.  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization air strike caused
“extensive damage” to a fleet of vehicles used by Qaddafi’s
forces, the ministry said in a statement.  Fighting resumed yesterday in the oil town of Brega, Al
Jazeera television reported. The network said Al-Mutasim Al-
Qaddafi, the son of the Libyan leader who commands the troops
defending Brega, fled to the town of Sirte after failing to stop
the advance of rebel forces. Qaddafi’s troops have planted
40,000  land mines  around Brega, Al Jazeera reported, citing an
unidentified military source.  Al-Qaeda Gunmen  In Yemen, government forces killed 30 al-Qaeda gunmen in
the city of Zanjibar, Al Jazeera reported. Forces loyal to
President Ali Abdullah Saleh opened fire on protesters in the
Red Sea city of Al-Hudaida and injured 80 of them, according to
Al Jazeera.  In Bahrain, home to the U.S. Navy’s 5th Fleet, the
country’s biggest Shiite opposition group pulled out of U.S.-
backed talks with the Persian Gulf kingdom’s Sunni rulers
yesterday, said Khalil al-Marzooq, a representative of the Al-
Wefaq opposition group, in a phone interview from Manama.  The group’s top leaders decided to withdraw from the talks
after concluding the government isn’t interested in political
reform, al-Marzooq told the  Associated Press .  Mubarak’s Coma  In Egypt there were conflicting reports about the medical
condition of ousted Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak .  “They are unable to get him to regain consciousness,”
said Mubarak’s lawyer, Farid elDib.  Mohamed Fathalia, the head of the hospital, later told  CNN 
that Mubarak “is now stable after suffering a coma that did not
last long.”  Mubarak, 83, has been in a hospital in the Red Sea resort
town of Sharm el-Sheikh since April while under arrest on
charges of ordering the killing of protesters during Egypt’s
public uprising in February.  The military council now governing Egypt over the weekend
was moving to lay down the ground rules for a new constitution
that would protect and possibly expand its own authority
indefinitely, the New York Times reported.  At the same time, Egyptian Prime Minister Essam Sharaf
began shuffling his cabinet yesterday, meeting one of the
demands of demonstrators who have staged a sit-in in Cairo’s
Tahrir Square for more than a week.  Hazem El Beblawi, an economist who works as an adviser for
the Arab Monetary Fund in the  United Arab Emirates , said he was
appointed  Egypt ’s finance minister and deputy prime minister,
amid other new appointments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 