-- 
U.K. Police Chief Stephenson Quits on News Corp. Links ‘Accusations’

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s ,   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-17T22:16:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/u-k-metropolitan-police-chief-stephenson-quits-amid-phone-hacking-scandal.html
U.K. Metropolitan Police Chief Paul Stephenson resigned over “accusations” about his force’s links
to a former  News Corp. (NWSA)  journalist arrested in connection with a
probe into phone hacking at the News of the World tabloid.  Stephenson said in a  statement  today that he informed the
Palace, London Mayor  Boris Johnson  and Home Secretary Theresa May of his decision to step down. The resignation followed the
arrest of Rebekah Brooks, the former top editor of the paper, by
several hours.  “I have taken this decision as a consequence of the
ongoing speculation and accusations relating to the Met’s links
with News International at a senior level and in particular in
relation to Mr. Neil Wallis who as you know was arrested,”
Stephenson said. News International publishes News Corp.’s
British titles.  Wallis, a former editor at News International’s News of the
World Sunday paper, was arrested July 14 on suspicion of
conspiring to intercept phone calls. He had also worked as a
paid communications consultant for the police in 2009 and 2010,
the police said on the day of his arrest.  The scandal has forced News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch 
this month to close the 168-year old tabloid, cancel a bid to
take control of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , and accept
the resignations of Brooks and  Les Hinton , chairman of News
International in the years the alleged hacking occurred.  Cameron, Coulson  For part of the time Wallis worked at News of the World, he
served as a deputy to the paper’s then editor,  Andy Coulson .
Coulson, who was also arrested this month, later served as Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s director of communications before
resigning because of the scandal in January.  Stephenson said in the statement that he didn’t advise
Cameron in advance that Wallis was going to be arrested to avoid
any conflict of interest.  “I did not want to compromise the Prime Minister in any
way by revealing or discussing a potential suspect who clearly
had a close relationship with Mr. Coulson,” Stephenson said. He
said it would have been “extraordinarily clumsy of me to have
exposed the Prime Minister, or by association the Home
Secretary, to any accusation, however unfair, as a consequence
of them being in possession of operational information in this
regard.”  Cameron, in a statement, said he wished Stephenson well,
and said the police should “do everything possible to ensure
the investigations into phone hacking and alleged police
corruption proceed with all speed, with full public confidence
and with all the necessary leadership and resources to bring
them to an effective conclusion.”  Champneys Stay  Stephenson’s resignation will take effect once a successor
has been found. It also follows a report in today’s Sunday Times
that Wallis was a media consultant for the Champneys health
resort when Stephenson stayed there earlier this year following
surgery on his leg.  “The accommodation and meals were arranged and provided by
Stephen Purdew, MD of Champneys, who is a personal family friend
who has no connection with, or links to” Stephenson’s
professional life, the Met said earlier in a statement. “The
commissioner only learnt who the PR consultant for Champneys was
following a media enquiry.”  Olympic Games   Stephenson said that if he stayed, the outcome of a public
inquiry into the News Corp. phone hacking would probably
“reaffirm my personal integrity.” He said he chose to step
down to avoid conflicts with preparations for security at the
Olympic Games in London next year.  Stephenson persuaded Johnson to let someone else take
charge of Scotland Yard “so that the focus can return to
policing and bringing down crime” in the run-up to the
Olympics, the mayor said in a statement. “If there has been any
wrongdoing by members of the Metropolitan Police it is vital
that this should now be exposed and cleared up in the inquiries
under way.”  May praised Stephenson’s three-year tenure as head of the
force.  Stephenson “has led the force through difficult times and,
although current circumstances show there are still serious
issues to be addressed I believe the force is stronger
operationally today than it was when he took over,” May said in
a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
 Robert Hutton  in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  