-- 
U.S. Home Sales, Construction Starts Probably Rose From Depressed Levels

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-07-17T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/u-s-home-sales-construction-starts-probably-rose-from-depressed-levels.html
Home sales and construction in the
U.S. probably rose in June from depressed levels as the industry
struggled to gain traction in the face of foreclosures, falling
prices and rising unemployment, economists said before reports
this week.  Purchases of previously owned homes climbed 2.9 percent
from May’s six-month low to a 4.95 million annual rate,
according to the median projection of 55 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before a National Association of Realtors’ report
on July 20. Housing starts rose 2.7 percent to a 575,000 pace,
economists forecast another release will show a day earlier.  Declining home values and delays in processing foreclosures
mean it may take years to clear the market of distressed
properties, a sign sustained gains in sales and construction
will be slow to develop. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  last week said housing remains “depressed” due in
part to a lack of job and income growth, which is restraining
the broader economy.  A housing recovery “is very difficult until we work off
some of the enormous supply,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S.
economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York . “We’re
talking about levels that are absolutely abysmal.”  Purchases of existing homes reached a record 7.08 million
in 2005, during the housing boom, and slumped to a 13-year low
of 4.91 million in 2010.  Cash Purchases  Sales of existing homes in recent months have been driven
by investor cash purchases of distressed properties. At the same
time, unemployment above 9 percent and strict lending standards
make it harder for most Americans to take advantage of  mortgage
rates  that are close to a record low.  “Stabilization and recovery will continue to be a slow and
rocky process,”  Stuart Miller , chief executive officer of
 Lennar Corp. (LEN) , said on a June 23 conference call. Miami-based
Lennar is the third-largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue.  Lender delays in processing home-loan defaults will push as
many as 1 million U.S. foreclosure filings from this year into
2012 or beyond, casting an “ominous shadow” on the housing
market, according to RealtyTrac Inc., a housing data provider. A
clogged foreclosure pipeline may prevent real estate prices from
finding a bottom as the housing slump extends into a sixth year.  With  home prices  continuing to drop and more distressed
properties making their way to the market, builders remain
reluctant to take on new projects.  Record Lows  The median projection for June housing starts is less than
the 588,000 begun last year, the second-fewest on record. Home
construction totaled 554,000 units in 2009, the lowest since
record-keeping began in 1959. Starts reached a peak of 2.07
million in 2005.  Building permits, an indicator of future construction, fell
2 percent in June, according to the median forecast of
economists before the Commerce Department’s figures.  A report tomorrow may show homebuilder confidence rose from
a nine-month low. The National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo sentiment index rose to 14 this month from
13 in June, according to the survey median. Readings lower than
50 mean more respondents view conditions as poor.  Homebuilder shares have lagged behind the broader market
this year. The Standard & Poor’s Homebuilder Supercomposite
Index has dropped 4.2 percent this year, compared with a 4.7
percent gain for the  S&P 500 Index. (SPX)   Leading Indicators  Among other data this week, the Conference Board’s index of
leading economic indicators is projected to show growth will
cool in the second half of the year. The gauge of the outlook
for the next three to six months may rise 0.2 percent in June
after a 0.8 percent increase in May, economists forecast the
July 21 report will show.  Another report from the  Federal Reserve Bank of
Philadelphia  the same day may show manufacturing had trouble
gaining ground as the third quarter began. The bank’s regional
general economic index rose to 2 this month after falling to
minus 7.7 the prior month. Readings higher than zero signal
growth.  Also on July 21, a Labor Department report may show initial
jobless claims rose by 5,000 to 410,000 last week, economists
forecast.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  