-- 
Mulberry World’s Top Fashion Stock as Overseas Sales Boom

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-07-18T15:45:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/mulberry-is-world-s-top-fashion-retailer-as-overseas-sales-boom.html
Mulberry Group Plc (MUL) , the 40-year-old
British luxury-handbag maker, is the world’s best-performing
fashion retail stock over the past year and its sales may keep
gaining, driven by overseas growth, analysts say.  The stock has risen 526 percent to 1,756 pence in the past
12 months, making it best performer in the apparel retailers
segment, according to Bloomberg data. Among all retailers, it’s
behind only PT Mitra Adiperkasa, an Indonesian company that runs
Starbucks Corp. coffee shops and Sogo department stores in the
country, which has risen 641 percent over the period.  Investors are betting Mulberry, whose handbags include the
Alexa, named after British model and television hostess Alexa
Chung, and its Bayswater bag, available in a “bright-cabbage
sparkle tweed” at 775 pounds ($1,250), will join the likes of
 Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  as an iconic luxury brand.  “Growth is very hard to come by, particularly in western
 Europe , but there are still some companies growing incredibly
fast,” said Harry Nimmo, manager of the 1 billion-pound U.K.
Smaller Companies Fund at Standard Life Investments.  Nimmo’s funds are the third-largest holder of Mulberry
stock and own 7.2 percent of  Asos Plc (ASC) , a U.K. Internet clothing
retailer. Asos is western Europe’s second-biggest gainer among
clothing retailers above a market value of $10 million over the
past year, Bloomberg data show.  Top Performer  Mulberry’s shares have gained 24-fold over the past two
years, making it the top gainer over the period in the FTSE AIM
All-Share index of 805 British stocks. In the year ended June
30, it was the second biggest gainer on the 1,526-member Russell
GLO Consumer Discretionary index, behind only Jinchuan Group
Co., a Chinese nickel producer that also sells cosmetics.  Still, at a price-to-earnings ratio of 59 times, compared
with 55 times for  Hermes International (RMS)  SA, the French maker of
Birkin handbags, the stock is approaching “full valuation”
said David Stoddart, an analyst at Finncap Ltd. in London.  “I’m not at all worried about the company, but when you
get beyond this, you are betting on the scale of upgrades,”
said Stoddart, who has a “buy” recommendation on the shares.
Mulberry raised its profit forecasts four times between last
October and March.  Mulberry also has the potential to broaden its brand to
products such as eyeglasses and perfume, and it has a relatively
limited presence in  Asia  and the U.S. compared with rivals,
Stoddart said.  Classic Strategy  Extending the brand name is a “classic strategy,” which
Mulberry has considered, said Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Godfrey Davis in a telephone interview last week. The
management wants to wait until Mulberry has sufficient presence
worldwide, and it’s “approaching that critical mass,” he said.  The company is keen to keep its English identity and is
adding 50 staff to its factory at Chilcompton,  England , to keep
the number of bags made in Britain at 30 percent, Davis said.  Mulberry posted a 42 percent increase in retail sales at
stores open at least a year for the 10 weeks to June 4, the
company said last month. At  Burberry , which makes a 14,000-pound
suede alligator bowling bag, comparable revenue in the quarter
ended June 30 rose 15 percent.  Overseas revenue for Mulberry, more than doubled to 40.5
million pounds for the year ended March 31. At Hermes in 2010,
Asian sales rose 19 percent and 24 percent in the Americas.  Ferragamo, Prada  Salvatore Ferragamo Italia Spa, which opened its first
store in  Hong Kong  in 1986 and in mainland  China  in 1994, has
more than 90 points of sale in greater China, the company said
in March. About half are operated directly. Hermes CEO Patrick
Thomas said in March that the company will add 13 stores in
2011, including seven in Asia and a second Indian outlet in
Mumbai.  In January Mulberry opened its first store in China, in
Beijing, the company said last month. New store openings are
scheduled for  New York , Amsterdam,  Germany , Korea, China and
Bangkok over the next 10 months, and it’s looking for sites in
 San Francisco  and  Los Angeles , the company said.  “It’s still a bigger brand than the business,” Stoddart
said. “Some people are looking at it as the next Prada or
Ferragamo.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in  London  at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  