-- 
Murdoch Struggles to Control News Corp. as Scandal Escalates

-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z ,   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-18T15:20:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/murdoch-struggles-to-control-news-corp-.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Rupert Murdoch is
struggling to control the destiny of the company he began
building six decades ago after a trusted deputy was arrested and
Scotland Yard’s top official quit over ties to a suspect in the
phone-hacking probe.  Independent directors of New York-based News Corp. have
begun questioning the company’s response to the crisis and
whether a leadership change is needed, said two people with
direct knowledge of the situation who wouldn’t speak publicly.
Rebekah Brooks, the former News International chief who Murdoch
backed until last week, was arrested yesterday in London.  “The shell of invulnerability that Rupert Murdoch had
around him has been cracked,” said  James Post , a professor at
Boston University’s School of Management who has written about
governance and business ethics. “His credibility and the
company’s credibility are hemorrhaging.”  Murdoch and his 38-year-old son,  James Murdoch , are
spending most of their time with advisers preparing for
tomorrow’s hearing before a U.K. parliamentary committee. They
will face questions over their role in and responsibility for
phone hacking that took place at their now-defunct News of the
World tabloid. The company took out advertisements in national
U.K. newspapers this weekend to apologize for the scandal.  Shares Slump  News Corp. (NWS)  fell 66 cents, or 4.2 percent, to $14.98 on the
Nasdaq Stock Market at 11:18 a.m. New York time. Before today,
it had lost 13 percent since July 4, when the Guardian reported
that News of the World employees had intercepted the voice mail
of Milly Dowler, a schoolgirl who was later found murdered. The
tabloid is also alleged to have hacked into the phones of terror
victims and dead soldiers, as well as politicians and
celebrities.  The slump has shaved more than $6 billion off the combined
value of the Class A shares and the Class B voting stock that
gives the Murdochs control over the company.  “Apologising for our mistakes and fixing them are only the
first steps,” News International said in the ads. The company
vowed to cooperate with the police and compensate those
affected, saying it is “committed to change.”  Board Stirrings  On the board, venture capital executive  Tom Perkins  and
Viet Dinh, a law professor at  Georgetown University  who was the
chief architect of the USA Patriot Act, are leading the efforts
of independent directors, according to one of the people. Dinh
also represented Perkins, a former Hewlett-Packard Co. director,
during a scandal at that company.  News Corp.’s independent directors, who hold nine of 16
board seats, have expressed frustration over the quality and
quantity of information they’ve received about the scandal and
concern about management’s ability to handle the crisis given
how slowly the company has responded, the person said.  Some directors said Murdoch, the company’s 80-year-old
chairman and chief executive officer, appeared to be in denial
over the fallout from the scandal in an interview he gave last
week to the Wall Street Journal, one of News Corp.’s newspapers.  “People’s faith in the family’s management is
diminished,” said Claire Enders, founder and CEO of media
researcher Enders Analysis in  London , whose clients include the
U.K. government and the broadcast regulator Ofcom. “That too
may be very hard to restore quickly,” she said in an interview.  Brooks Resignation  In April, News Corp. said it would settle lawsuits and
offer compensation to some of the celebrities and politicians
that had sued the company. That followed a settlement related to
a phone-hacking lawsuit in 2010 in which, according to the
Guardian, News Corp. paid celebrity publicist  Max Clifford  more
than 1 million pounds ($1.6 million) to drop his case.  In the past three years, News Corp. paid more than $600
million to settle cases in which it was accused of competing
unfairly. In February, News Corp. said it will pay $125 million
to Insignia Systems Inc. in a case related to the U.S. in-store
advertising market. Last year, it agreed to pay $500 million to
 Valassis Communications Inc. (VCI) , and in 2009 it paid $29.5 million
to settle a claim brought by Floorgraphics Inc., which also
compete in in-store advertising and promotions.  As allegations of phone-hacking escalated this month,
Murdoch abandoned a 7.8 billion pound bid for all of  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , shut the 168-year-old tabloid on which
his U.K. media business was founded and lost the support of all
Britain’s main political parties.  Brooks resigned on July 15, a week after Murdoch voiced his
“total” support for the U.K. newspaper executive at a media
conference in  Sun Valley , Idaho, and flew to London to address
the growing crisis.  Brooks Released  Les Hinton , CEO of Dow Jones and previously chairman of
News International for 12 years, resigned the same day. The 67-
year-old newspaper man had worked for 52 years for Murdoch,
starting as a copy boy at the age of 15.  In developments yesterday, Brooks, 43, went to a London
police station voluntarily by appointment, her spokesman  David
Wilson  said in a phone interview. As head of the unit that runs
Murdoch’s U.K. newspaper operations, she is the most senior News
Corp. employee detained in the probe.  “Undoubtedly she should have been arrested,” said  Mark
Lewis , a lawyer for victims of phone-hacking including the
parents of the murdered schoolgirl. “She was editor of the
newspaper at the time that Milly Dowler was abducted and killed.
The police undoubtedly have to ask her questions about what
happened and what she knew or doesn’t know.”  Brooks was released on bail around midnight, police said.  Special Committee  Hours after the arrest, Metropolitan Police Commissioner
Paul Stephenson announced his resignation over speculation about
his force’s links to another former journalist at the tabloid.
Neil Wallis, a former editor who was arrested last week, was a
paid communications consultant for the police in 2009 and 2010.
Another senior Met officer, Assistant Commissioner John Yates,
resigned today.  A News Corp. spokeswoman reiterated the company’s intention
to fully cooperate with the police. Brooks, in a memo
accompanying her resignation, said leaving would give her “the
freedom and the time to give my full cooperation to all the
current and future inquiries.”  News Corp. will take over from News International a
committee set up to work with police investigating the scandal.
The company today appointed Anthony Grabiner, a U.K. lawyer and
chairman of retailer Arcadia Group Plc, to lead the management
and standards committee.  Simon Greenberg , corporate affairs director at News
International, and General Manager Will Lewis will be employed
full-time by the committee, which will report to  Joel Klein ,
Murdoch’s top adviser, who in turn will report to Dinh. Both
Klein and Dinh will update News Corp.’s board.  Independent Directors                                  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with News
Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  With the FBI in the U.S. beginning a preliminary probe of
the company, News Corp. has hired criminal defense lawyer
Brendan V. Sullivan Jr. of the Washington law firm Williams &
Connolly LLP, according to a person familiar with the situation.
Sullivan’s clients have included former Alaska Senator Ted Stevens, ex- New York  Stock Exchange Chairman Richard Grasso and
Reagan White House aide Oliver North. Sullivan didn’t return a
phone and e-mail messages from Bloomberg News seeking comment.  The company also began interviewing large public relations
firms last week in New York to serve as its outside crisis
communications adviser, said two people familiar with the
matter. News Corp. has already retained Rubenstein Associates in
New York and Edelman in London.  Family Control  News Corp.’s independent directors, including Dinh, Perkins
and former British Airways CEO Rod Eddington, may have limited
influence, given the Murdochs’ stock holdings, said  Charles Elson , director of the John L. Weinberg Center for  Corporate
Governance  at the University of Delaware.  Murdoch controls News Corp. through a 38 percent stake in
the Class B voting shares, according to company filings and data
compiled by Bloomberg. Those shares represent a 12 percent
economic interest in the company, when non-voting shares are
counted as well.  In addition to  Rupert Murdoch , News Corp.’s board includes
his son Lachlan, 39, as well as James, the company’s deputy
chief operating officer. Murdoch’s daughter Elisabeth, 42, was
set to become a director after selling her Shine Group TV
production outfit to News Corp. for $673 million in February.  “Rupert Murdoch controls the votes of the company through
the Class B shares,” Elson said in an interview. “He can just
replace them if he wants. They may do something, but it will be
temporary. Maybe he becomes chairman, but this is still his
company and he can do what he wants. When he controls the stock,
he controls the board.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Hymowitz in New York at 
 chymowitz1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net  