-- 
Wareing’s St. Pancras Restaurant Has Gothic Nostalgia: Review

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-07-17T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-17/wareing-s-st-pancras-restaurant-serves-up-gothic-nostalgia-london-dining.html
The Gilbert Scott features a
respected gastronomic chef serving nostalgic British food in a
beautiful historic building at prices most people can afford.  What could go wrong? Plenty, if you pay attention to
critics who have seen shortcomings in the food, the prices, the
service and the design of Marcus Wareing’s restaurant at St.
Pancras. It’s named after George Gilbert Scott, the Victorian
architect of the Midland Grand Hotel at the  London  train
station.  The Gilbert Scotts were talented. The man himself designed
the Albert Memorial. His grandson, Giles, created the London
telephone kiosk, Battersea Power Station, Bankside Power Station
(now home to Tate Modern) and a gentlemen’s club in the City
that houses Bloomberg’s London headquarters.  The Gothic-revival buildings at St. Pancras are dramatic
and this carries through to the interior of the bar at the
Gilbert Scott, with its high, ornate ceiling and large, bold
light fittings in the shape of bells. The design is by David Collins, who was also responsible for the Wolseley, a restaurant
Wareing cites as an inspiration. The bar manager is Oliver
Blackburn, who shows a real sense of hospitality in this, his
first London job after working in Nottingham.  (The Gilbert Scott is attached to the  St. Pancras
Renaissance London Hotel  and has its own entrance.)  Eccles Cakes  The menu is long -- about a dozen starters, 15 main courses
and 10 desserts -- and is designed to appeal both to U.K. diners
and to visitors in search of traditional cuisine. Many of the
dishes are familiar from the school dinners of old and there’s a
nod to Wareing’s northern childhood in options such as
Manchester Tart, Kendal Mint Cake Choc Ice, Yorkshire Puddings
and Eccles Cakes.  While the menu might be described as nostalgic, it’s more
than that: I never remember British food being this good.
Wareing’s head chef Oliver Wilson is talented and there’s real
flavor in starters such as the Mulligatawny with quail, onion
rings, curry spice; and mains such as Soles in Coffins: lemon
sole, vermouth cream, Morecambe Bay shrimps and crispy potato.
(The coffin is the potato skin that contains the fish.)  The mushy peas with the fish-and-chips come as a
mayonnaise; as does the Sarson’s vinegar served with side orders
of fries. Paxo sage-and-onion stuffing -- a real taste of
childhood -- is served as a side dish as are Yorkshire puddings.
These are among the most authentic I’ve tasted in London, and
would be even better with gravy served in a jug, rather than
under them in the bowl.  Classic Desserts  The desserts are possibly the strongest part of the menu.
Mrs. Beeton’s Snow Eggs -- a variant on floating island, with
Everton toffee, peanuts and burnt-honey custard -- is among the
best. I’d also go back for Eccles Cakes with Cheddar Cheese Ice
Cream; and Orange Marmalade Jaffa Cake with Earl Grey Ice Cream.  With such a good menu, why the complaints? Some tables are
so close together you don’t have to ask: “Does my bum look big
in this?” You just gauge it by how much havoc you wreak on your
neighbor’s table as you squeeze out. The service can be
inattentive. Some staffers adopt that fixed look of the flight
attendant trying to avoid catching anyone’s eye.  I’ve had bad luck with wines: One waiter assured me I’d
made a good choice when I’d picked a turkey; another could not
tell me the difference between two bottles of Torrontes both
priced at the same 30 pounds. I can recommend the Terrazas de
Los Andes 2008 and don’t know about the Nomade, Mendoza 2009.  These are not huge problems. The bar is among the most
beautiful in London and the dining room is charming. While the
Gilbert Scott isn’t an instant classic, it certainly isn’t bad.
It’s a decent restaurant that can become better.  The Gilbert Scott is at Euston Road,  St. Pancras 
Renaissance Hotel, London, NW1 2AR. Information:
 http://www.thegilbertscott.co.uk  or +44-20-7278-3888.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? 50 pounds a head.  Sound level? Acceptably buzzy 75 decibels.  Inside tip? Try holding out for a decent table.  Special feature? St. Pancras  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Whisper sweet nothings and your neighbors will
hear. Other than that, it is good.  Rating? ** 1/2  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 