-- ‘Dark Knight Rises’ May Top Ledger Movie With $198 Million Debut
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/-dark-knight-rises-may-top-ledger-movie-with-198-million-debut.html
“The  Dark Knight  Rises,” the third
and last Warner Bros. film with  Christian Bale  as Batman, may
generate as much as $198 million in its opening weekend to
become the second-biggest U.S. debut of all time.  The forecasts from industry researchers, ranging from a low
of $170 million, would mark the best Batman opening ever, while
falling short of the record $207.4 million posted in May by
“Marvel’s The Avengers,”  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s superhero film.  “‘The Avengers’ was the first out of the gate,” said Ben
Carlson, co-founder of the research firm Fizziology. “Now it’s
the heart of the movie season and there’s a big film released
every week.”  “The Dark Knight Rises” also follows the July 3 opening
of “The Amazing Spider-Man,” creating more competition for
superhero fans, according to Carlson, who said the picture is
generating less buzz on social media such as Facebook and
Twitter. The movie, the last Batman film from series director
 Christopher Nolan , will probably become one of studio parent
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s two biggest releases this year.  “The Dark Knight Rises,” co-starring  Tom Hardy  as the
villain Bane, cost about $250 million to make, according to the
Internet Movie Database. The film accounted for 85 percent of
yesterday’s advance sales at Fandango.com, the ticket site owned
by Comcast Corp., according to Harry Medved, a spokesman.  It’s one of the few tentpole pictures not in 3-D this year.
Nolan has said he doesn’t like the technology.  Sales Estimates  Fizziology, which measures chatter on social media,
estimates opening-weekend sales of $170 million, Carlson said in
an interview.  Jeff Bock , senior box-office analyst at Exhibitor
Relations Co., forecasts about $180 million. Boxoffice.com sees
$198 million from 4,404 domestic locations.  Warner Bros ., based in Burbank, California, is fourth in
2012 domestic ticket sales with $683.2 million as of July 15,
according to Box Office Mojo, a film researcher.  The biggest performer this year for the studio is “Journey
2: The Mysterious Island,” which has generated $325.9 million
worldwide, according to Box Office Mojo.  Warner Bros. in December releases “The Hobbit: An
Unexpected Journey,” which is also expected to be one of the
studio’s biggest pictures of the year. The parent company got 20
percent of its 2011 profit from filmed entertainment.  Time Warner rose 0.5 percent to $38.92 yesterday in New
York. The stock has increased 7.7 percent this year.  “The Dark Knight,” released in 2008, took in $158.4
million in the U.S. during its first weekend and had $1 billion
in global ticket sales, according to Box Office Mojo. The film
also garnered a supporting actor Oscar for the late Heath Ledger, who played the Joker.  “Batman Begins,” the first Nolan-Bale collaboration,
opened in 2005 with $48.7 million in U.S. weekend sales and
generated a worldwide total of $372.7 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  