-- ‘Mad Men,’ ‘American Horror Story’ Score 17 Emmy Nominations
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-07-19T16:08:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/-homeland-mad-men-score-prime-time-emmy-drama-nominations.html
“Mad Men,” cable TV’s look back at
the 1960s-era advertising industry, will vie for an
unprecedented fifth Emmy award in its category after being
nominated again as a finalist for TV’s best drama.  The show, airing on the  AMC (AMCX)  network, will compete with five
other dramas including “Boardwalk Empire,” “Breaking Bad,”
“Homeland,” “Downton Abbey” and “Game of Thrones,” the
Academy of Television Arts & Sciences  announced  today at the
Emmy nominations in North Hollywood, California.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s HBO, the home of “Game of Thrones” and
“Boardwalk Empire,” led the cable programmers with a total of
81 nominations.  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s broadcast network, the most-watched,
was tops among over-the-air programmers with 60 nominations,
according to the academy.  Comedian and talk-show host Jimmy Kimmel and Kerry
Washington, star of “Scandal” on  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC,
announced the nominations with academy Chairman Bruce Rosenblum,
a Warner Bros. television executive. The 64th Emmy awards
ceremony will air Sept. 23 on ABC.  If “Mad Men” triumphs a fifth time it would establish a
record for most wins in the drama category. That show is
produced by  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)   Jon Hamm  and
 Elisabeth Moss  received leading actor and actress nominations
for their roles in the series.  Two-time winner “Modern Family” was nominated again for
best comedy series. It airs on ABC. Other comedy nominees
include “Curb Your Enthusiasm,” “Girls,” “30 Rock,”
“Veep” and “The Big Bang Theory.”  “Veep,” a new show this
year on HBO, stars former “Seinfeld” sidekick Julia Louis- Dreyfus as vice president of the U.S. She also received a best
comedy actress nomination.  Most Nominations  Among individual shows, “American Horror Story,” the
haunted house saga that aired on  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s FX network, tied
“Mad Men” for the most nominations with 17. Other nominees in
the miniseries or movie category were “Game Change,”
“Hemingway & Gellhorn,” “Sherlock,” “Luther” and
“Hatfields & McCoys.”  “Hatfields & McCoys,” the History Channel’s miniseries
about the famous American family feud, collected 16 nominations
in all, joined with that total by “Downton Abbey,” the PBS
show about British aristocracy and their servants.  Kevin Costner  received a best actor nomination for his
portrayal of “Devil” Anse Hatfield in the “Hatfields &
McCoys,” as did his co-star Bill Paxton, who played Randall
McCoy.  Comedy Central  Nominees in the variety category are “The Daily Show With
 Jon Stewart ,” “The Colbert Report,” “Real Time With  Bill
Maher ,” “Saturday Night Live,” “Jimmy Kimmel Live” and
“Late Night With  Jimmy Fallon .”  Two of the programs, “The Daily Show” and “The Colbert
Report,” are carried on Comedy Central, one of the  Viacom Inc. (VIAB) 
cable channels at the center of a pricing dispute with DirecTV,
the largest U.S. satellite service.  The dispute has led to a blackout of Comedy Central, MTV,
Nickelodeon and other channels for  DirecTV (DTV) ’s 20 million U.S.
subscribers as both sides negotiate over programming fees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  