-- Ackman Stains P&G Credit as Swaps Move Higher: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-07-19T17:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/ackman-stains-p-g-credit-as-swaps-move-higher-corporate-finance.html
Traders are pushing derivatives
linked to  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  debt to the riskiest level
relative to  Colgate-Palmolive Co. (CL)  and lower-rated Unilever since
2009 on concern that investor  Bill Ackman  will pressure the
company to reward shareholders at lenders’ expense.  The cost to protect bonds of the world’s largest consumer-
goods maker from default has increased 10.2 basis points to 0.62
percentage point at 12:23 p.m. in New York since July 11, after
Ackman bought a $1.8 billion stake in P&G. While the stock has
since gained 5.6 percent as bullish options wagers surge, bonds
of the maker of Tide, Pampers and Crest are underperforming as
profit margins narrow and sales growth decelerates to the
slowest since 2009.  Ackman may persuade management to reinstate its share
repurchase program with debt-sale proceeds, according to bond
research firm Gimme Credit LLC, after its stock almost 10
percent from the 2012 high. Cincinnati-based P&G’s swaps were
less expensive than those of Colgate and Unilever a year ago.  “It’s obviously a concern,”  said Alan Shepard, a fixed-
income analyst at Madison Investment Holdings Inc., which
oversees about $16 billion and holds P&G bonds. Ackman has a
history of “wanting to release  shareholder value  without too
much concern from where the bondholders stand,” he said in a
telephone interview from Madison,  Wisconsin .  Swaps Rise  Credit-default swaps on P&G debt are up from this year’s
low of 48 basis points on April 3, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. It now costs about $62,000 annually to protect $10
million of P&G debt, the most since July 2009. Swaps linked to
Colgate traded at 44 basis points today with contracts on
Unilever at 35.  P&G obligations have also trailed the returns of AA rated
corporate debt with board members dissatisfied with Chief
Executive Officer  Robert McDonald ’s performance discussing a
possible leadership change, according to people familiar with
the situation who asked not to be identified because the matter
is private.  The company’s board said yesterday that it unanimously
supports McDonald and his plan to improve the company’s results.
Paul Fox, a spokesman for P&G, declined to comment on future
corporate actions.  P&G Stake  P&G bonds have returned 0.4 percent since July 11, the day
before Ackman disclosed that his Pershing Square Capital
Management LP had taken a stake in P&G, compared with a 0.9
percent gain among similarly-rated companies such as General
Electric Co. and Abbott Laboratories, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data.  The company’s debt has returned 3.37 percent this year
through July 11, versus 5.01 percent for all AA corporate
securities, according to Barclays Plc index data. P&G is rated
Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and an equivalent AA- at
 Standard & Poor’s . Unilever is one level lower, A1 by Moody’s
and A+ at S&P.  Ackman didn’t respond to requests for comment on how P&G
should increase shareholder value. He revealed at the Delivering
Alpha conference produced by television station CNBC and
Institutional Investor Inc. in New York yesterday that his fund
owns $1.8 billion of the company’s shares.  The 46-year-old Ackman is known for investing in companies
he deems undervalued and urging changes he says will improve
shareholder returns.  Target Bonds  He purchased a stake in  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  in 2005 and helped
pressure the world’s largest restaurant chain to boost its
dividend by 50 percent in September 2007. The investor also
helped to successfully persuade Wendy’s International Inc. to
spin off its Tim Hortons Inc. doughnut business in 2006, leading
Standard & Poor’s to cut Wendy’s  credit rating  to junk.  After Target Corp. rejected Ackman’s suggestion to spin off
the land beneath its stores as a publicly traded real estate
investment trust, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer
behind Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said it favored selling its credit-
card business, which Ackman supported. The chain also sold $4
billion of bonds to raise funds for stock buybacks he’d sought.  P&G could borrow $20 billion to repurchase stock and
probably still remain “a strong investment grade credit,”
Gimme Credit analyst Carol Levenson said in an e-mail message.
Ackman’s stake signals that the “pressure to do some kind of
financial engineering is nearly inevitable, and nine times out
of ten this would be negative for bondholders,” she said.  The company suspended stock repurchases after it said it
spent $2.3 billion on its shares in the first calendar quarter.  Undervalued Companies  P&G considers its credit rating important, Chief Financial
Officer Jon Moeller said at the Deutsche Bank Consumer
Conference on June 20. The company decided to suspend share
repurchases to protect itself from downgrades, he said.  “Anytime you get an activist like Ackman involved, then
the risks do go up,” said  Thomas Chow , a  money manager  at
Delaware Investments in Philadelphia with about $170 billion
under management. While Ackman probably will need extra
shareholder support to influence management, “the ability of
Procter & Gamble to access the market and fund shareholder-
oriented activity through the debt markets is probably pretty
high,” he said.  Shares of P&G are  down  0.4 percent this year including
dividend payments, compared with a 10.8 percent gain for the  S&P
500 index . The stock has increased 20 percent over the past five
years, compared with a 49 percent rise in the 41-member S&P 500
Consumer Staples Sector index.  ‘Wearing Thin’  P&G’s  ratio  of enterprise value to earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 11.34 times is
less than the average of 12.47 among the world’s largest
household products makers. Sales growth at the company declined
for the third straight quarter to 1.51 percent in the period
ended March 31, the slowest pace since 2009.  Market share for the world leader in both hair and laundry
care has also declined for two years as Unilever expanded,
Bloomberg data show.  “We all know that Procter & Gamble is not performing up to
expectations, and patience from shareholders has been wearing
thin,” Edward Mui, an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  New York ,
said in a telephone interview. “When a company moves toward
aggressive shareholder-friendly actions, it usually comes at the
expense of bondholders, whether it comes in the form of
deteriorating credit metrics or asset coverage.”  Cash Use  P&G’s ratio of total debt to Ebitda was 1.8 in the most
recent quarter, compared with 1.72 a year ago and 2.4 in 2006,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Colgate, the world’s
largest toothpaste maker, has a ratio of 1.16 with London- and
Rotterdam-based Unilever at 1.84 last year, Bloomberg data show.  Bondholders may still benefit from Ackman’s involvement in
P&G if he helps spur revenue growth or if management responds to
his ideas by divesting brands such as pet-food maker Iams or the
Duracell battery unit without handing proceeds directly to
shareholders, Mui said.  The extra cash produced by any strategic change probably
won’t be used to pay down debt, according to Mark Pibl, head of
credit strategy at broker-dealer Cortview Capital Securities
LLC.  “In that respect it hurts the credit,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  