-- Actelion Raises 2012 Forecast on Reduced First-Half Costs
-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i   a n d   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-19T07:42:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/actelion-raises-2012-forecast-on-reduced-first-half-costs.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , the Swiss maker of
the Tracleer blood-pressure drug, climbed the most in two weeks
after the company raised its profit forecast for 2012 on reduced
spending and second-quarter revenue that beat estimates.  The shares advanced as much as 3 percent to 42.50 Swiss
francs, the biggest intraday gain since July 5, and were up
2.7 percent at 42.36 francs as of 9:29 a.m. in Zurich.  Core earnings, or sales minus cash operating expenses and
excluding currency effects, will rise in a “mid single-digit”
percentage range, Allschwil-based Actelion said in a statement
today. The drugmaker had expected earnings to remain unchanged
from 2011 figures. The company reiterated that sales will
probably fall by a low single-digit percentage.  Actelion is betting on its successor to Tracleer,
macitentan, to revive sales when the older drug loses patent
protection in 2015. The company said in April that macitentan
succeeded in a late-stage study, fueling speculation that
Actelion may become a takeover target. Actelion is cutting
research costs, and outlined plans on July 12 to scale back the
workforce by 5.3 percent.  “In the first half of 2012 we have taken decisive action
to ensure that the company is able to take full advantage of the
growth opportunity we have created with macitentan,” Chief
Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel said in the statement. “I am
very pleased, that our efforts to control costs are already
having an impact on profitability.”  Second-quarter product sales rose 1.3 percent to 445.9
million Swiss francs ($456 million) from 440 million francs a
year earlier, Actelion said. Analysts were predicting revenue
would decline to 434.8 million francs, the average of 10
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Stock Gains  Through yesterday, Actelion had gained 25 percent in Zurich
trading, including reinvested dividends, since announcing
results of the macitentan trial,  outpacing  a 9.3 percent advance
in the 18-company Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceuticals Index.  The company said it collected more than 100 million Swiss
francs from southern European countries that owed it money,
 Spain  in particular, Chief Financial Officer Andrew Oakley said
in a telephone interview today.  First-half product sales declined 3.2 percent to 861.8
million francs, with revenue from Tracleer falling 4 percent to
752.4 million francs. The drug is losing market share to  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD) ’s Letairis, and is under pricing pressure in
Europe.  Tracleer and macitentan are designed to treat pulmonary
arterial hypertension, in which the arteries that move blood
from the heart to the lungs narrow, making the heart work harder
and causing elevated  blood pressure .  It’s “a little premature” to quantify the savings that
will come from the reorganization, Oakley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Lavell in Frankfurt at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  