-- AIG Scorned by Old Republic for Insuring Homes Loans: Mortgages
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/aig-scorned-by-old-republic-for-insuring-homes-loans-mortgages.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer bailed out by U.S. taxpayers, is investing in home-
loan insurance, a business that Aldo Zucaro, chief executive
officer of rival  Old Republic International Corp. (ORI) , said doesn’t
make sense.  United Guaranty , acquired by AIG in 1981, backs mortgages
against losses and is seeking growth after hiring Donna DeMaio
from MetLife Inc. in May. Zucaro questioned the industry’s
prospects after failing to separate his company from a mortgage-
guaranty unit that he said may be unprofitable into 2014.  “If all you’re doing is looking at the past, yeah, clearly
it’s a crappy business,” Mark Devries, an analyst at Barclays
Plc, said by phone. “For those who survive and are there, it’s
going to be the most attractive environment to write  mortgage
insurance  that we’ve seen for at least a decade and a half.”  Tighter lending standards by banks and an improving housing
market, with prices stabilizing and home sales close to two-year
highs, mean the business is vastly different than in the years
following the housing market crash that started in 2006.
Mortgage insurer losses mounted in subsequent years as  home
prices  fell as much as 34 percent and delinquencies surpassed 10
percent, while 4.7 million homeowners lost their properties to
foreclosure, according to RealtyTrac Inc. data.  Old Republic posted pretax losses of more than $2 billion
from mortgage-guaranty operations in the five years ended Dec.
31, while AIG’s business backing home loans had a pretax loss of
$4.5 billion in the period. AIG, buoyed by U.S. rescue funds and
returns from one of the world’s largest commercial insurers, can
pursue growth while the accumulated shortfall and a refusal by
mortgage buyer  Fannie Mae  to accept Old Republic policies has
prevented Zucaro from writing new policies that may be more
profitable.  Genworth, MGIC  Devries estimates that firms that stay in the business may
benefit from a return on equity above 20 percent on new coverage
as the exit of some rivals allows remaining insurers to boost
prices, and tighter underwriting standards limit claims.  AIG competes with rivals led by Genworth Financial Inc.,
MGIC Investment Corp. and  Radian Group Inc. (RDN)   Shares of all four
of the companies plunged more than 80 percent in  New York 
trading since the end of 2006. At least two smaller closely held
firms were founded after housing prices crashed.  Mortgage insurance is typically paid for by borrowers,
picked by lenders and required for debt exceeding 80 percent of
a property’s value. The policies cover  foreclosure  losses and
represent a separate business from mortgage-bond guarantees
provided by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  Market Share  The market share of private companies in mortgage insurance
fell to 22 percent last year from more than 75 percent in 2007
after losses drained capital at the firms and government
agencies such as the  Federal Housing Administration  took a
greater role, according to Inside Mortgage Finance. Radian sold
the most private mortgage insurance in the first three months of
this year, followed by AIG,  MGIC (MTG)  and Genworth.  Old Republic opted against contributing the capital that
would be required by regulators to sell more mortgage insurance.
Zucaro will collect premiums and pay claims on mortgage policies
sold in prior years while directing resources to more profitable
lines such as  title insurance  and commercial coverage.  ‘Sobering Facts’  Accumulated losses that wiped out about 80 percent of
Chicago-based Old Republic’s mortgage-guaranty profits since it
entered the business more than 30 years ago are “sobering facts
that bring into question the very rationales of the MI business
model,” Zucaro said on a conference call last month. “Our
mortgage-guaranty segment has spilled a lot of red ink.”  Zucaro had planned to spin off the mortgage unit in a move
that would have isolated the parent company from losses. He
canceled the plan June 22 after objections from stakeholders, a
group that he said includes regulators, banks and  bond holders .  The shares plunged 21 percent since June 21, while prices
on $550 million of 3.75 percent convertible bonds dropped to 91
cents on the dollar yesterday from 100 cents. Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded the company’s  debt  to Baa3, one level above
junk.  United Guaranty can expand as the U.S. reduces its role in
the housing market, AIG CEO  Robert Benmosche  said on an Aug. 5
conference call. The unit is pricing individual policies based
on risk and provides insight into the economy, he said.  “It’s running very well and it’s enhancing whatever we do
here,” Benmosche said. “We see it as a keeper.”  ‘Major Asset’  The unit accounted for $8 million of pretax income in the
first quarter as AIG posted net income of  $3.21 billion , the
company said in May. DeMaio, previously the CEO of MetLife Bank,
was hired that month as chief operating officer of United
Guaranty to oversee sales, underwriting and loss management.  “Her experience in leading fast-growing organizations will
be a major asset as we build upon United Guaranty’s position,”
United Guaranty CEO Kim Garland said in a May 11 statement. Jim Ankner, a spokesman for AIG, had no additional comment.  United Guaranty has been able to write new coverage in
part because AIG helped absorb losses, said Helen Remeza, an
analyst at Moody’s. AIG, once the world’s largest insurer,
received a bailout in 2008 that grew to $182.3 billion. The firm
tapped a U.S. Treasury Department facility for $2.1 billion in
2009 in part to help restructure United Guaranty, AIG said in a
filing that year.  Genworth is working to “strengthen our  capital structure 
and realign our business portfolio,” acting CEO Martin Klein
wrote in a letter last month after Moody’s said the company was
being reviewed for a downgrade, in part because of U.S. mortgage
insurance. The company also backs home loans in  Australia (GNW)  and
Canada and sells life insurance, long-term care coverage and
retirement products in the U.S.  ‘Significant Losses’  New policies are more profitable and will help rebuild
capital, said S.A. Ibrahim, CEO of Philadelphia-based Radian.
He’s said the mortgage insurance business may become profitable
as soon as 2013.  “We as a company and our  shareholders  have borne
significant losses, but this is an industry that is still
standing,” Ibrahim said. “Each piece of new business we write,
if it’s profitable and well written, creates a greater ability
to pay our obligations to the legacy policyholders.”  FBR & Co. said in April that it raised $550 million to fund
NMI Holdings Inc., a planned mortgage insurer. Essent Guaranty
Inc., backed by JPMorgan Chase & Co. and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , was  approved  as a qualified insurer by government-
sponsored enterprises Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  in 2010.  The  Federal Housing Finance Agency , the overseer of Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac, which were seized by the U.S. in 2008, is
studying ways for the private sector to share housing risk,
according to an FHFA  strategic plan .  Political Support  “Mortgage insurance has to exist and, given the political
support for housing in this country, I think we’ll get a
solution,” said Jason Stewart, managing director at Compass
Point Research & Trading LLC. in Washington. “The average
homeowner has nowhere near enough savings or earnings capacity
to put down a down payment” that a lender would be willing to
accept without third-party backing.  Thomas Lawler, a former Fannie Mae economist who runs
Lawler Economic & Housing Consulting, said the role of private
firms is tied to the mandate by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac for
insurance on most low-down-payment loans, a policy that could be
changed by the government.  ‘Something Big’  “It was the GSE legislation that really transformed the
mortgage insurance industry into something big, because it was a
requirement,” Lawler said. Changing the enterprises “means
that the industry itself could shrink.”  Mortgage insurance volume may also decline if risk-
retention rules stemming from the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, don’t
give lenders a benefit for loans that carry it, he said.  The housing crash calls into question the viability of
insurers that rely mostly on backing mortgages, Lawler said.
Larger companies like AIG can better bear the risk, he said.  “If you look at the mortgage insurers today, they are
still generating substantial losses from their legacy books,”
said Stanislas Rouyer, associate managing director at Moody’s.
“The opportunities for new business, while attractive given the
quality of the loans that are being insured, the volume is not
sufficient at this point to cover the losses that are still
emerging.”  PMI Group Inc. (PPMIQ)  filed for  bankruptcy protection  in November
and  Triad Guaranty Inc. (TGIC)  stopped selling new policies in 2008 as
capital ran short. Triad traded over the counter for 6.5 cents a
share yesterday, down from a 2004 high of more than $60.  Radian and Milwaukee, Wisconsin-based MGIC have said they
may fail to meet regulatory limits on risk relative to capital
in the second half of this year and have received permission
from some state regulators to continue selling policies if they
breach the standards.  Michael Zimmerman, senior vice president of  investor
relations  at MGIC, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  