-- Akzo Profit Beats Estimates as Buechner Advances With Revamp
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2012-07-19T14:11:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/akzo-profit-beats-estimates-as-buechner-advances-with-revamp-2-.html
Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) , the world’s largest
paintmaker, reported second-quarter earnings ahead of analysts’
estimates as Chief Executive Officer Ton Buechner drives ahead
with a revamp to improve profitability.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization increased 8 percent to 593 million euros ($728
million), the Amsterdam-based company said today. Analysts
predicted 569 million euros.  Buechner, who took the helm in April, is picking up the
mantle to streamline Akzo’s operations five years after its
$16.5 billion purchase of Imperial Chemical Industries
transformed the Dutch company into the world’s biggest
paintmaker. The maker of Dulux and Glidden paint has cut about
800 jobs this year, targeting 200 million euros in improvements.  “My initial observations are that we have solid businesses
and many strong market positions,” Buechner said in a
presentation. “The opportunity remains to increase return on
capital, cash generation and margins, which is why the immediate
priority for me and the leadership team is performance
improvement.”  Sales climbed 8 percent to 4.41 billion euros, in line with
a Bloomberg estimate from a survey of analysts.  Akzo shares rose 5.7 percent to 42.84 euros at 4:08 p.m.  Strategy Update  Investors and analysts will gather in the fall to hear what
strategic tweaks Buechner has in mind. Decorative paints head
Tex Gunning has pledged to eliminate losses at the U.S.
operation this year, amid an overhaul of the Glidden brand and a
struggle to maximize earnings from a commercial agreement with
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to sell its products. Buechner reiterated
that the U.S. deco division will break even in 2012.  In a video presentation today, Buechner distanced himself
from “large portfolio changes or large acquisitions” as he
prepares the ground for the October capital markets day, saying
the focus is on operational improvements and cash generation.
His predecessor Hans Wijers said the strategic options for the
U.S. decorative paint business would be looked at after the
reorganization.  “I’m having regularly updates with the team almost on
monthly basis,” Buechner said in an interview, referring to the
U.S. deco business. “Those updates and the plan between now and
the end of the year give me confidence we that we are going to
be making that Ebitda neutral position by the end of the year.
It certainly isn’t going to be the end of where we want to be of
course, we are gonna driving this further than that.”  Speculation Persists  The upcoming strategy update “could create some
speculation on some corporate action for the group,” though
drastic moves are unlikely, Petercam said in a note to
investors.  Akzo’s household paint business increased revenue by 6
percent in the second quarter, bolstered by price increases and
currency gains. Ebitda declined 8 percent as construction in
 Europe  slowed.  The performance improvement program is on track and Akzo is
budgeting for the majority of this year’s boost to profitability
from cost cutting and efficiency gains to arrive in the second
half, Buechner said in the presentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  