-- AMD Plunges on Predicted Chip Slump: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-20T19:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/amd-predicts-sales-will-fall-up-to-4-in-third-quarter.html
Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  fell to
the lowest price in almost three years after predicting a
revenue decline amid market-share losses and diminished demand
for personal computers.  AMD  shares  dropped 12 percent to $4.26 at 2:53 p.m. in  New
York . Earlier they touched $4.20, the lowest price since
September 2009. The stock had decreased 10 percent this year
through yesterday. Shares of chipmaker Freescale Semiconductor
Ltd. and  Rambus Inc. (RMBS) , which handles chip design, also declined.  Demand for AMD’s products is being hurt by slower growth in
 China , the second-largest economy, and a worsening economic
climate in  Europe , the company said. AMD, the second-biggest
maker of processors for PCs, also lost market share to  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , which reported growth from the first quarter, according
to AMD Chief Executive Officer Rory Read.  “Our performance in the quarter was disappointing and did
not meet our commitments,” Read told analysts on a conference
call. “It is clear that the overall PC market experienced
softness.”  Third quarter sales will be down 1 percent, plus or minus 3
percent, from the prior period, AMD said yesterday. At the low
end, that prediction indicates revenue of $1.36 billion in the
third quarter, compared with the average analyst estimate of
$1.41 billion, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  AMD’s sales have grown 14 percent on average from the
second quarter to the third over the past 10 years, according to
Mike Burton, an analyst at Northland Capital Markets.  Downgrade  Market share losses in notebooks and a lack of demand for
AMD’s new server products, which would improve its
profitability, prompted Wedbush Securities analyst Betsy Van Hees to lower her rating on the stock to neutral from
outperform, she said in a research report today.  MKM Partners LLC’s  Daniel Berenbaum , who has a sell rating
for AMD, said the earnings report shows that poor execution and
a wider market share loss than he had expected.  “Investors seemed willing to give CEO Rory Read the
benefit of the doubt, but one year into his tenure it is
becoming increasingly difficult to believe that a fix can be
arrived at by simply ‘‘improving execution,’’ Berenbaum said in
a report today.  Last year, AMD suffered a steeper decline in orders than it
had expected because of a failure to supply new chips to
distributors. Those customers now need to be persuaded that AMD
will now deliver on its supply commitments and that its new
products are attractive, compared with the competition, Read
said yesterday.  Falling Profit  In the second quarter, AMD posted a profit of $37 million,
or 5 cents a share, down from $61 million, or 8 cents, a year
earlier, the Sunnyvale, California-based company said in a
statement.  Sales fell 10 percent to $1.41 billion. In April, the
company had predicted a gain of as much as 6 percent from the
first quarter.  Freescale Semiconductor (FSL) , a maker of chips used in cars and
phone systems, tumbled as much as 14 percent after the company
forecast third-quarter revenue that missed analysts’ estimates.  The stock fell 6.6 percent to $9.54 in New York, after
earlier trading as low as $8.79, for the biggest decline since
April 20. Shares of the Austin, Texas-based company had declined
19 percent this year through yesterday.  Third-quarter revenue will be $955 million to $1.01
billion, according to a company statement yesterday. That
compared with an average estimate of $1.05 billion, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sunnyvale, California-based Rambus Inc., which designs
computer-memory chip interfaces, fell the most since November
after reporting that its second-quarter net loss tripled to
$32.2 million as sales slid 15 percent to $56.2 million.  Results are suffering from lower technology licensing rates
as demand for computer memory ebbs, according to a report by BWS
Financial Inc. analyst Hamed Khorsand.  The  stock  plummeted 17 percent to $4.31 in New York
trading. It has shed 31 percent this year through yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  