-- American Airlines Needs Merger Less Than Suitor, CEO Says
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-07-20T13:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/american-airlines-needs-merger-less-than-suitor-ceo-says.html
American Airlines Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Horton  said his bankrupt company doesn’t need a
merger as badly as smaller suitor  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  because
its value is on the rise.  “American is not going to determine its strategic future
based on the urgent need of another company to make a deal,”
Horton said in an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s global
headquarters in  New York . While the value of US Airways “is
probably at its high water mark,” he said, the “value of our
company is increasing.”  AMR Corp.’s American is positioning itself to thrive after
bankruptcy with aircraft upgrades and improving operational
performance, which led to record sales last quarter, Horton
said. American, which recently said it’s ready to compare
mergers and strategic options against its own plan to remain
independent, doesn’t see a combination as necessary, he said.  Even if AMR decides a merger is in the best interest of its
stakeholders and creditors, Horton said it’s not clear that  US
Airways  is the foremost contender. The most vocal of AMR’s
possible suitors, US Airways said this week it won’t wait
indefinitely for a merger agreement.  “US Airways has been for sale for a very long time,”
Horton said. “It’s fair to say what their sort of earning power
looks like today will erode over time.”  AMR on July 18 reported second-quarter profit of
$95 million, excluding bankruptcy and severance costs, a
$381 million improvement from a loss of $286 million a year
earlier. It was the first second-quarter profit in five years,
excluding special items.  Other Mergers  Once the world’s biggest airline, American filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in November as it neared a fourth-straight
annual loss after skipping industry consolidation that created
two larger competitors, Delta Air Lines Inc. and United
Continental Holdings Inc. American remains larger than US
Airways, the country’s fifth-biggest carrier.  “It’s accurate that both American and US Airways have a
revenue deficit to Delta and United,” US Airways President
Scott Kirby said in a telephone interview. “That’s because we
do not have the networks Delta and United have. That’s why this
merger creates an airline that generates the same revenue as
Delta and United and can compete.”  US Airways financial results “speak for themselves,”
Kirby said. The airline’s shares more than doubled this year
through yesterday.  Lagging Margin  AMR reported a second-quarter operating margin of
3.8 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. US
Airways, which reports results next week, is forecast to have an
operating margin of 10 percent, while Delta is projected to have
9.2 percent and United to post 8.6 percent, Bloomberg data show.  “We recognize the value that consolidation has created,”
Kirby said. “We’ve been very public about the need to
consolidate, to do what’s right for our employees and our
investors.”  While US Airways has argued a merger needs to be undertaken
while American is in bankruptcy, Horton said it’s not clear that
is a better course than waiting until the carrier exits court
protection.  Horton outlined to US Airways CEO Doug Parker in a meeting
in  Washington  yesterday how a review of alternatives to its
stand-alone plan will work and what criteria the company will
apply, Mike Trevino, a spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Potential Partners  US Airways was one of five carriers Horton mentioned as
potential partners in a meeting with AMR’s creditors committee
June 10, people familiar with the matter have said. The others
were Alaska Airlines,  Frontier Airlines , JetBlue Airways Corp.
and Virgin America Inc.  US Airways reached tentative contracts in April with
American’s unions, contingent on a merger. Horton called the
accords “fake labor agreements” in yesterday’s interview
because they are “an agreement to agree.”  The judge overseeing American’s bankruptcy yesterday
extended until Dec. 28 its exclusive right to file a plan of
reorganization.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net  