-- Americans Hold Dimmest View on Economic Outlook Since January
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-19T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/americans-hold-dimmest-view-on-economic-outlook-since-january.html
The most Americans in six months
said the economy in July was getting worse, indicating the
slowdown in hiring is dimming moods as the third quarter begins.  The  share  of households viewing the U.S. as heading in the
wrong direction rose to 36 percent, the highest since January,
from 33 percent in June. The Bloomberg  monthly expectations 
gauge was minus 11, matching June as the lowest level since
January. The weekly Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to
minus 37.9 in the period ended July 15, the lowest in a month.  Limited wage gains and unemployment stuck above 8 percent
risk further slowing  consumer spending  and leaving the U.S. more
vulnerable to a global slowdown. There is also growing pessimism
little is being done in Washington to avoid the so-called fiscal
cliff at the end of the year, when higher taxes and automatic
spending cuts kick in, raising the risk of recession.  “A soft labor market and political tensions surrounding
potential changes in  tax policy  are weighing on consumer
sentiment,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Consumers are concerned about their
incomes and have become much more cautious about spending. The
economy is limping into the third quarter.”  A report from the Labor Department today showed
applications for  jobless benefits  increased by 34,000 to 386,000
in the week ended July 14. The median estimate of economists in
a Bloomberg News survey called for 365,000 claims. A Labor
Department spokesman said the figures were skewed by a change in
the timing of annual auto factory layoffs.  Stocks Rise  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2 percent to
1,375.29 at 9:32 a.m. in New York amid better-than-estimated
earnings at companies including International Business Machines
Corp. and EBay Inc.  Two of the three components of the weekly consumer comfort
index deteriorated. A measure of  personal finances  declined to a
four-week low of 0.7 from 1.9, and an index of the  buying
climate  eased to minus 41.7 from minus 41.5. A measure of
Americans’ views of the state of the economy held at minus 72.8.  Confidence among  full-time  workers dropped to minus 31.9
last week, the lowest since February.  The report is “the latest blow for economic sentiment,
already in the midst of an extended slump,” said  Gary Langer ,
president of Langer Research Associates LLC in New York, which
compiles the index for Bloomberg.  The sentiments in the comfort report were reflected in
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s testimony to Congress
this week, in which he projected “frustratingly slow” progress
on unemployment and noted decelerating economic activity and
depressed consumer sentiment, Langer said.  Labor Market  Fed policy makers “are looking for ways to address the
weakness in the economy should more action be needed to promote
a sustained recovery in the labor market,” Bernanke said in
response to questions from lawmakers on July 17.  Employers added 80,000 jobs to payrolls last month, fewer
than economists forecast, while the jobless rate was unchanged
at 8.2 percent. Retail sales unexpectedly fell for a third month
in June, Commerce Department data showed this week.  “The economy in  North America  continues to be fragile as
 consumer confidence  lags and job growth remains anemic,” Vernon Nagel, chairman and chief executive of  Acuity Brands Inc. (AYI) , a
lighting fixture maker, said during a July 2 earnings call. “We
expect the macroeconomic environment for the balance of 2012 to
continue to be influenced by external concerns, including fiscal
and monetary policy in U.S and  European debt crisis .”  The Bloomberg consumer comfort readings underscore the U.S.
political divide over the fiscal cliff looming at year-end, when
tax cuts on wages,  capital gains , dividends and estates are
scheduled to lapse, today’s report showed. Democrats’ confidence
exceeded Republicans’ for a record 17th consecutive week.  Democrats, Republicans  The comfort index for Democrats rose to minus 23.6 last
week, while the gauge for Republican voters fell to minus 42,
the lowest since February. The difference between the two groups
is the widest on record.  Among  independents , a key swing group in this year’s
presidential election, the measure dropped to minus 48.7, the
weakest this year.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
aged 18 and over. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for their
views on the economy, personal finances and buying climate; the
percentage of negative responses is subtracted from the share of
positive views and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  