-- AMR Wins Extension of Sole Right to File Bankruptcy Plan
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-19T14:44:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/amr-wins-extension-of-sole-right-to-file-bankruptcy-plan.html
American Airlines parent AMR Corp.
won more time to develop its plan to restructure and exit
bankruptcy as it works to consider possible mergers.  American’s request for an extension of a deadline for
filing the plan was approved by U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane
at a court hearing today in Manhattan. The ruling extends
American’s exclusive right to file a proposal to Dec. 28 and
blocks competing plans.  American obtained more time as Chief Executive Officer  Tom Horton  said last week the company will consider “a range of
strategic options,” including potential mergers, and has
“multiple options” available.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  wants to combine with American, based
in  Fort Worth , Texas, and supported American’s request for the
extension. US Airways is a creditor of AMR and bought debt so it
can have standing to participate in the bankruptcy case.  Christopher Harris, an attorney for Tempe, Arizona-based US
Airways, attempted to speak at today’s hearing. Lane said he
didn’t need to hear from the airline and didn’t want to get
“sidetracked.”  In allowing more time to file the plan, the judge said
American, which filed for bankruptcy in November, has made
progress in its restructuring and has “easily met” the
requirements for an extension. The request was supported by the
committee representing unsecured creditors.  AMR and the creditors’ committee said in court papers they
will work together to consider strategic alternatives for the
airline.  The case is In re  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , 11-15463,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  