-- AMR CEO Said to Tell Suitor He Won’t Be Rushed on Deal
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-07-19T22:06:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/amr-ceo-said-to-tell-suitor-he-won-t-be-rushed-on-deal.html
American Airlines  Chief Executive
Officer  Tom Horton  told US Airways CEO Doug Parker that the
bankrupt carrier won’t be rushed into any merger, people
familiar with the matter said.  The exchange occurred today during a breakfast meeting
between the two executives at a Washington hotel, said the
people, who declined to be identified because the discussion was
private. Horton reached out to Parker by e-mail yesterday to
suggest the session, one of the people said.  American’s CEO outlined how a review of alternatives to its
own plan to emerge from bankruptcy independently will work and
what criteria the company will apply, Mike Trevino, a spokesman
for American parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , said in an e-mailed statement.  Horton emphasized to Parker today that American has an
obligation to “pursue the right plan, which includes several
interesting options, to deliver the highest value for our
financial stakeholders and the best outcome for our people,”
Trevino said.  Failed Bids  US Airways , which failed in earlier bids to combine with
Delta Air Lines Inc. and  United Airlines , has lobbied American
creditors to build support for a merger since securing tentative
contract agreements with the  Fort Worth , Texas-based carrier’s
unions. US Airways said last week that it bought AMR debt to
become an official creditor in the bankruptcy.  “The fact that AMR is engaging is positive,” said Matthew
Jacob, an analyst with ITG Investment Research in  New York .
“There is pressure from a lot of different angles for AMR to
consider this, and it’s something that AMR is wise to at least
consider. Both these companies and management teams are trying
to feel each other out.”  US Airways said “no substantial progress” was made in
today’s meeting, which occurred a day after Parker warned in a
speech that US Airways’ interest in a merger with American isn’t
infinite.  “We hope this is the start of a meaningful, fair and
transparent process that will give us the ability to demonstrate
further why combining American Airlines and US Airways is in the
best interests of all of our stakeholders,”  John McDonald , a US
Airways spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  US Airways tumbled 6.9 percent to $12.50 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York, the largest decline in more than a month. The shares
have still more than doubled this year.  American Alternatives  AMR’s 6.25 percent bonds due in October 2014 jumped 3.25
cents, or 4.9 percent, to 69.75 cents on the dollar, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  The judge overseeing American’s bankruptcy today extended
until Dec. 28 the airline’s exclusive right to file a
reorganization plan. While Horton originally said he didn’t want
to consider a merger until leaving bankruptcy, the airline said
July 11 it’s ready to review that and other options.  Parker, in remarks yesterday to the  National Press Club ,
said Tempe, Arizona-based US Airways is the only partner that
can solve American’s network deficiencies. He first began
pressing for a merger in January. The combination would pass
United Continental Holdings Inc. as the world’s biggest airline,
based on passenger traffic.  American’s second-quarter performance, including record
quarterly sales of $6.45 billion, reflects the strength of its
route network and revenue-sharing alliances outside the U.S.,
Horton said. Those are parts of American’s plan to complete its
bankruptcy on a stand-alone basis.  The Wall Street Journal reported the meeting earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  