-- Hana Leads Korean Banks Lower Amid Loan-Rate Probe: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-07-19T07:44:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/hana-leads-korean-banks-lower-amid-loan-rate-probe-seoul-mover.html
Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790)  led South
Korean banks lower in Seoul trading as the country’s antitrust
agency widens its probe of key money-market rate collusion.  Hana Financial dropped 2.6 percent to 33,200 won at the
close on the  Korea  Exchange, the lowest level since Sept. 28.
The benchmark  Kospi index  gained 1.6 percent. The 10-member KRX
Banks Index lost 1.9 percent to the lowest close since Sept. 26.  South Korea’s  Fair Trade Commission  said yesterday it
visited 10 brokerages and nine banks as part of its
investigation and plans to review whether companies colluded to
fix certificate of deposit rates. The commission’s probe comes
amid widening scrutiny from global financial regulators into
interest-rate manipulation that led to more than $450 million in
fines for Barclays Plc last month.  “It’s a drag on banking stocks,” Kim In, an analyst at
Eugene Investment & Securities Co., said by phone today. “If
the agency finds any collusion, banks will be fined. Even if no
illegal activities are found, the government will try to induce
banks to lower the rate, which should be negative for their
margins.”  South Korea ’s 91-day  certificate of deposit  rate is a
benchmark for bank lending, interest swaps and floating yields
for bonds. The rate had remained unchanged at 3.54 percent from
April 9 to July 12, when it fell by 27 basis points to 3.27
percent following an unexpected central bank rate cut, according
to data compiled by Korea Financial Investment Association. It
fell 1 basis point to 3.22 percent today, according to the
association.  Woori Finance Holdings Co.’s shares lost 4.1 percent in
Seoul, while  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560)  declined 1.4 percent and
Shinhan Financial Group Co. fell 2 percent.  Officials from Financial Services Commission,  Finance
Ministry  and  Bank of Korea  plan to discuss developing a short-
term rate to replace the CD rate benchmark and ways to enhance
transparency in calculating the rate, according to an e-mailed
statement today.  -- With assistance from Seonjin Cha in  Seoul . Editors: James
Gunsalus, Brett Miller  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net 
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  