-- Anadarko Doesn’t Reach Settlement of Tronox Case
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-19T18:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/anadarko-didn-t-reach-settlement-of-tronox-case.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and its
Kerr-McGee unit failed to settle a $25 billion lawsuit brought
by the U.S. and Tronox Inc. and a trial will resume next week, a
lawyer said. Anadarko fell as much as 5.2 percent.  “There is no settlement agreement and we’re going to be
resuming trial” on July 24,  John Hueston , a lawyer for the U.S.
and Tronox said today in a phone interview. Hueston declined to
comment on whether further settlement talks were possible, or
potential amounts discussed in the talks, which have been going
on since at least July 12.  Anadarko remains “committed to resolving the Tronox
litigation through informal negotiations or other alternative
dispute resolution mechanisms,”  John Christiansen , a company
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. He said that the trial
is set to resume July 24, as previously scheduled, and declined
to comment on the status of the negotiations, saying they are
confidential.  The lawsuit, over environmental claims and tort claims
related to Tronox’s 2005 spinoff, tests whether money can be
recovered from a successor to a polluting company, even after a
bankruptcy ostensibly cleaned the slate. Tronox initially sued
Anadarko in 2009. The  Justice Department  took over the case on
behalf of the Environmental Protection Agency.  Anadarko, based in The Woodlands,  Texas , fell 1.2 percent
to $71.78 at 1:28 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares earlier touched $68.86.  The government seeks to recover $25 billion to clean up
2,772 polluted sites and compensate about 8,100 tort claimants.  50 Witnesses  A trial began May 15, with Anadarko facing testimony from
more than 50 witnesses, and was scheduled to run until at least
the end of July. On June 28, David Zott, a lawyer for the U.S.
and Tronox, said the plaintiffs had presented their last
witness, and U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Allan Gropper asked Anadarko
how it would begin its defense.  Before Anadarko could present its side of the case, a
notice was filed July 12 saying the trial was being adjourned
for a week while the parties held settlement talks or engaged in
mediation. The talks would be confidential, according to the
notice. Anadarko shares rose as much as 4.3 percent that day.  “Until clarity is established, we believe APC shares could
show some weakness,”  Scott Hanold , an RBC Capital Markets LLC
analyst, said in a research note today. “Until the news broke
out, the stock price had been discounting a settlement for
approximately $4+ billion, expected to be a more favorable
outcome than a trial judgment.”  Transferred Assets  The government seeks $15 billion in assets allegedly
transferred in 2005, plus $10 billion in interest and
appreciation, according to a lawyer involved in the case.  Witnesses who testified included bankers, scientists and a
mayor who said Kerr-McGee’s toxins destroyed his town, as well
as Luke Corbett, the Kerr-McGee chief executive officer from
1997 to 2006, who now sits on Anadarko’s board.  According to the complaint, Anadarko’s Kerr-McGee unit was
part of a two-step transaction that defrauded the EPA of money
to clean polluted sites.  Kerr-McGee, founded in 1929 near  Oklahoma City , left a
toxic legacy that stretches from uranium mines in Navajo
territories in the West to wood-treatment plants in Mississippi
and  Pennsylvania , the EPA said in court papers.  After an internal reorganization started in 2001, Kerr-
McGee spun off its chemicals business and old environmental
liabilities as Tronox Inc. beginning in 2005. About three months
after the transaction was completed, Anadarko offered to buy
Kerr-McGee’s oil and natural gas assets for $18 billion.  Bankruptcy Filing  Tronox filed for bankruptcy in 2009 and sued its former
parent, saying it was overburdened with billions of dollars in
environmental debts. The U.S., Tronox’s largest creditor on
behalf of the EPA, intervened, creating the current lawsuit.  Anadarko said Kerr-McGee reorganized to separate the
chemical business from the oil and gas business and maximize
 shareholder value .  “All relevant parties believed that both businesses were
healthy,” lawyers for Anadarko wrote in court papers.  Anadarko Chief Executive Officer Al Walker said at an
energy conference on June 6 that the company wasn’t opposed to a
settlement.  The bankruptcy case is Tronox Inc., 09-10156,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  