-- Anglo Calls in Platinum Veteran to End Slump as Miners Face Glut
-- B y   C a r l i   C o o k e
-- 2012-07-19T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/anglo-calls-in-platinum-veteran-to-end-slump-as-miners-face-glut.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  named Chris Griffith head of its platinum unit, the world’s largest producer
of the metal, to confront sliding profits as a supply glut
threatens to prolong weak prices for a further 18 months.  “He’s the guy who’s been parachuted in,” Dominic O’Kane,
an analyst at London-based Liberum Capital said yesterday.
Griffith, chief executive officer of  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , the
biggest contributor to Anglo’s earnings, has “gone to where
he’s needed most.”  Anglo said yesterday Neville Nicolau was resigning as CEO
of  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS) , or Amplats, “to pursue other
interests” a day after the unit said first-half profit fell as
much as 78 percent, pushing its stock to a three-year low.
 Cynthia Carroll , CEO of Anglo American, has asked 47-year-old
Griffith to return to the platinum operation where he spent 18
years before leaving in May 2008 to run the iron-ore business.  “He’s done a great job at Kumba,” Carroll said in a
telephone interview yesterday. Helped by iron-ore prices that
more than doubled, Kumba gained 63 percent in Johannesburg
trading under Griffith’s leadership. The platinum unit has
slumped 65 percent over the same period.  The move prompts a chain of executive redeployments at
London-based Anglo. Thermal-coal chief Norman Mbazima will take
over from Griffith and be succeeded by Godfrey Gomwe, whose
position as Anglo American South Africa head goes to Amplats
executive Khanyisile Kweyama. The changes take effect Sept. 1.  Labor, Electricity  Griffith joins the platinum unit halfway through a review
initiated in February, when Nicolau, bracing for continued weak
prices, froze recruitment and cut spending. Platinum prices fell
23 percent in the last four years, eroding producers’ profit as
labor and electricity costs rose by more than inflation in  South
Africa , the nation with the largest reserves of the metal.  “The market is pretty weak right now and it’s not looking
like it’s going to improve much over the next, say, 6 to 12
months, or even 18 months,” Carroll said of the outlook for the
metal yesterday. “We’re looking at our capital” and “overall
underlying costs” as part of the review, she said.  Griffith must weigh changes to Anglo’s production, about 40
percent of global output, against a global platinum surplus
Stanlib Collective Investments Ltd. fund manager Kobus Nell
estimates at more than 500,000 ounces this year.  “The review is underway and is ongoing,” Carroll said
yesterday. “We haven’t taken any decisions.” Reducing output
may lead to higher expenses for Anglo, she said. “We take
production out and everybody else gains. Our costs go up because
we’ve got to cover those fixed costs.”  Nationalization Call  Carroll must also consider the impact any mine closures
would have on job losses in the  mining industry  in South Africa,
where Anglo has about 40 percent of its assets. The ruling
 African National Congress ’s youth wing last year called for
mines to be nationalized and the party is now considering
windfall taxes in the nation, where about one in every four
people are unemployed.  “The market demands production cuts that will drive Anglo
American into confrontation with its most important host
nation,” Liberum said July 13.  South Africa is concerned over job losses in the platinum
industry, Mines Minister Susan Shabangu said last month.
 Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP)  the fourth-largest producer, suspended
its Everest and Blue Ridge mines, as well as its Marikana
venture with Anglo this year.  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the third-largest
producer is reviewing spending plans.  The latest evidence of the effect the industry slump is
having on Amplats will come July 23, when the company reports
half-year earnings. It may cut or halt its interim dividend,
Liberum said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Cooke in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  