-- Kumar Gets Probation for His Galleon Trial Cooperation
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/anil-kumar-gets-two-years-probation-in-insider-trading-case.html
Crime doesn’t pay, but the lesson
from insider-trader Anil Kumar’s case is that it pays to
cooperate if you get caught.  Kumar, 53, the former McKinsey & Co. partner, was facing 25
years in prison after pleading guilty to participating in an
insider-trading scheme with Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam. Instead, he received a term of two years’ probation.  U.S. Circuit Judge  Denny Chin  in  Manhattan  yesterday said
he wouldn’t send Kumar to prison, and cited what prosecutors
called Kumar’s “essential” and “extraordinary” cooperation
as the first and key witness in the biggest insider-trading
cases in U.S. history.  “There is the factor of extraordinary cooperation,” said
Chin, adding that Kumar’s actions set him apart from other
insider-trading defendants. “For some reason, in narcotics
cases, the culture is the first one to cooperate, everyone wants
to cooperate, everyone wants to get in. But, the culture is
different in insider-trading cases and perhaps that will
change.”  Kumar’s plea preceded the cooperation of two other Galleon
turncoat witnesses,  Adam Smith  and David Slaine, who avoided
prison in part by secretly recording incriminating conversations
with other suspects.  Kumar, 53, also testified against his mentor, former
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta , who was convicted
in June. Kumar helped pierce the veil of secrecy surrounding the
insider-trading scheme and win the convictions of Rajaratnam and
Gupta, Assistant U.S. Attorney Reed Brodsky said yesterday.  ‘Aberrational Conduct’  “I am persuaded that this was aberrational conduct and
that Mr. Kumar has led a law-abiding and productive life,” said
Chin. “I am persuaded he cooperated not to get a lighter
sentence, but to make amends for what he did.”  Chin credited Kumar for the speed and depth of his
cooperation. Kumar, who was arrested and charged with Rajaratnam
in October 2009, worked meticulously to aid the U.S., meeting
with prosecutors over more than 50 days to help build their
cases, his lawyer Paul Grand, a partner at Morvillo, Abramowitz,
Grand, Iason, Anello & Bohrer, told the judge.  “I do not believe the ends of justice would be served by a
period of incarceration,” Chin said. He also ordered Kumar to
forfeit $2.26 million and pay a $25,000 fine.  Many white-collar crimes now carry significant prison terms
-- including a 20-year statutory maximum for  securities fraud  --
giving defendants an incentive to cooperate.  First In  “Timing is everything in the courts, as well as in the
market,” said J. Bruce Maffeo, a former federal prosecutor and
now a criminal defense lawyer at Cozen O’Connor. “People who
are in the door first typically get extraordinary leniency from
the courts because they have something of value to trade with.”  Probationary terms for key insider-trading cooperators
should help the government, Maffeo said.  “People tend to not pay attention to cooperating until
there’s a knock on their door and a couple of federal agents are
out there with a subpoena or handcuffs,” he said. “Sentences
like this create an incentive. It’s a morality tale that the
government will now use as they do in every other type of
prosecution: to create an incentive for others to cooperate.
That’s the clear message here.”  Kumar, who worked at McKinsey from 1986 to November 2009,
pleaded guilty in January 2010 to one count each of conspiracy
and securities fraud, admitting he had been part of an insider-
trading scheme from 2004 to 2009.  At Rajaratnam’s trial last year, he said he passed inside
information about client matters, including  Advanced Micro
Devices Inc. (AMD) ’s deal to sell chips to  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and
AMD’s acquisition of ATI Technologies Inc.  Gupta Testimony  In June, Kumar told a jury how Gupta, who once led
McKinsey, teamed up with Rajaratnam in 2006 to try to raise $2
billion for an investment fund.  Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence at a
federal facility in  Massachusetts . Gupta is scheduled for
sentencing in October.  More than a dozen people tied to Rajaratnam’s scheme have
been prosecuted by the U.S. Few of the others ensnared in the
investigation have cooperated with the U.S., Brodsky said.  He said Kumar’s testimony at Rajaratnam’s trial “was
nothing short of devastating” and helped refute defense
assertions that the  fund manager  traded on legitimate research
and analyst reports.  By the time Kumar completed his direct testimony against
Rajaratnam, prosecutors felt they had proven most of their case,
Brodsky told Chin.  ‘Great Skepticism’  “At the time of Mr. Rajaratnam’s arrest, there was great
skepticism in the hedge-fund community and the investment
community that Mr. Rajaratnam was simply being charged for being
too aggressive in trying to obtain an edge based on research,”
Brodsky said. Kumar’s early plea and testimony, “sent a clear
message that what Mr. Rajaratnam did was obtain illegal
information from inside sources like Mr. Kumar and traded on
that information.”  Smith, a former Galleon portfolio manager who was sentenced
to two years’ probation, made consensual recordings for the U.S.
during the insider-trading probe. He also testified against
Rajaratnam. Slaine wore a wire to record dozens of conversations
with fellow former Galleon trader Zvi Goffer and testified at
his trial.  Kumar apologized for his crimes yesterday.  “I stand in this court today completely and totally shamed
by the conduct that has brought me before your honor,” Kumar
said at the sentencing hearing. “It has brought me pain and
suffering, and dishonor to my family, my friends and my business
colleagues. I strayed from my core beliefs and all that I stood
for my entire life.”  Wife, Son  His voice broke with emotion when he spoke of his wife and
son and the impact of his actions on his family and his standing
in the business community.  “I have become a pariah in that world and am followed by
rumors and whispers,” he said. “I only implore the court to be
merciful.”  Kumar led a “law-abiding life” until he was pulled into
the insider-trading scheme with Rajaratnam, defense lawyer Greg
Morvillo, a partner at Morvillo LLP said in court papers. Kumar
testified he’d been a protégé of Gupta’s and had introduced the
fund manager to Gupta, who ran McKinsey from 1994 to 2003.  Kumar described for prosecutors crimes they didn’t know he
had committed, Brodsky said. Without Kumar’s help, it’s highly
unlikely that the government would have been able to uncover the
history and the route of the illicit payments Galleon made on
his behalf because everyone involved lived outside the U.S. or
worked for Galleon and had refused to aid the government,
defense lawyers said.  ‘Breathtaking Dedication’  “Anil fell prey to Mr. Rajaratnam’s manipulation,”
Morvillo said in court papers.  Once he was arrested and charged, Kumar quickly decided to
cooperate, Grand said. Since his arrest, he has worked with
health institutions in the U.S. and  India , including the  Baylor
College of Medicine  in  Texas  and Max Institute of Healthcare
Education & Research in India, defense lawyers said.  “I have seen him tortured by what he did,” Grand told the
judge. “I have seen his efforts to be the best witness he
could; I have seen him develop understanding of how this tragedy
came about. I have been witness to his breathtaking dedication
to the service of others.”  Kumar testified in June that Gupta approached him in 2006
saying he wanted to start an investment fund after his scheduled
retirement from McKinsey in 2007. Kumar said Gupta sought out
Rajaratnam, Kumar’s classmate at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, because of his expertise as a
prominent hedge-fund manager.  “I’m not at all surprised by this sentence given the fact
that he was an earlier cooperator,” said Maffeo, the former
prosecutor. “The guy played his cards right, and the criminal
justice system has served him well.”  The case is U.S. v. Kumar, 10-cr-00013, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  