-- Manufacturers Split On Breaks-for-Rate Trade in Tax Code
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-19T15:17:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/manufacturers-split-on-breaks-for-rate-trade-in-tax-code.html
Tax directors for large U.S.
manufacturing companies are split on how much they are willing
to give up in tax breaks in exchange for a lower corporate rate.  Executives from 3M Co.,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,  Corning Inc. (GLW)  and
 Air Liquide SA (AI)  are testifying today at a hearing of the House
Ways and Means Committee in Washington.  “I don’t think it’s quite time yet to choose which ones
stay and which ones go,” said Diane Dossin, chief tax officer
at Ford. “For Ford’s business to go forward in the U.S., we
think the low rate is the single most important thing.”  Representative  Dave Camp , the panel’s chairman, has
proposed lowering the top U.S. corporate  tax rate  to 25 percent
from 35 percent. The  Michigan  Republican hasn’t specified how he
plans to cover the lost revenue.  The U.S. has the highest statutory corporate tax rate in
the industrialized world. The effective rate, after accounting
for tax breaks, is comparable with other large countries.  Henry Gjersdal, vice president of tax and real estate at
3M, said the maker of Scotch tape would be willing to give up
tax breaks for domestic manufacturing, accelerated depreciation
and corporate research to get the rate down to 25 percent.  Dossin said lawmakers should consider the full effects of
rate reduction and changing the tax base as they make these
decisions.  ‘Base Broadening’  “We also understand that base broadening comes with costs
that must be weighed against the lower rate,” she said.  Susan Ford, a vice president at Corning, said the U.S. tax
incentive for corporate research is uncompetitive, noting that
Asian countries offer significant incentives that make overseas
investment attractive.  The lower the corporate tax rate, she said, “the less
likely companies are incented to move income offshore.”  Every tax break should be considered, Ford said, with a
caveat.  “The overriding concern, of course, is that rates have a
tendency to creep back up,” he said.  Representative  Sander Levin  of Michigan, the top Democrat
on the committee, called for Republicans to be more specific as
to which breaks they would propose curtailing so that an
overhaul plan can be analyzed for its effect on economic growth
and  job creation .  “Just setting a rate and not saying how you will get there
doesn’t really tell you whether you are achieving those goals or
not,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  