-- Apple, Geron, Louboutin, Samsung: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-19T11:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/apple-geron-rovi-louboutin-samsung-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc., the maker of the iPad and
iPhone, received a patent on the graphic user interface it uses
in its portable devices.  The patent is one that “smartphone copycats should fear,”
 according to  Wired magazine. The Android Authority website,
which covers telephones using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating
system,  said  the patent is a major “potential weapon against
Android.”  Patent 8,223,134, which was issued July 17, covers the
“portable electronic device, method, and graphical user
interface for displaying electronic lists and documents.”  Apple says in the patent that as portable electronic
devices became capable of more and more functions, it becomes
increasingly difficult for users to keep track of the key
sequences and menu hierarchies used to access, store and
manipulate data.  The patented technology makes use of graphic interfaces
that can be manipulated through a touch screen. The interfaces
are aimed at increasing “the effectiveness, efficiency and user
satisfaction with portable multifunction devices,” according to
the patent.  Cupertino, California-based Apple applied for the patent in
March 2012, with the assistance of Philadelphia’s Morgan Lewis &
Bockius LLP.  Geron Says Patent Office Rejected Challenge to ViaCyte Patent  Geron Corp. (GERN) , the biotech company that last year abandoned
its stem-cell clinical trials, said the U.S. Patent and
 Trademark Office  turned away its challenge to a stem cell-
related patent held by ViaCyte Inc., a San Diego-based
competitor.  According to a Geron regulatory filing, the patent office’s
Board of Patent appeals and Interferences rejected arguments
against claims in ViaCyte’s patent 7,510,876. The board also
said that some of the claims in a Geron patent application were
unpatentable.  The technology covered by the disputed application is part
of its stem cell  intellectual property  portfolio the Menlo Park,
California-based company is seeking to divest, Geron said.  In November 2011 Geron said in a  statement  that it would
discontinue its clinical trials of its stem cell-related
therapies to focus on oncology drugs.  Geron is the company that funded the  University of
Wisconsin  research that first isolated stem cells from human
embryos in 1998.  In July 2011 the company said it had won clearance from the
U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  to test a therapy derived from
those cells. Geron ended those trials because of research costs
and regulatory complexities.  Rovi Says Patent Licensing Delays Prompt Lower Annual Forecast  Rovi Corp. (ROVI) , a provider of digital entertainment guides,
said it missed out on key patent licenses.  “In order to ensure the long-term protection of our key
intellectual property, we did not sign certain new patent
licensing agreements during the second quarter, as some expected
licensees would not agree to acceptable terms,” Tom Carson,
chief executive officer of the Santa Clara, California-based
company, said in a statement July 17. “In addition, certain
other deals with first time licensees are simply taking longer
to close than anticipated.”  Rovi sued three television makers in May, claiming
infringement of patents for its technology and parental-control
chips that block television content.  That month the company
also filed two other patent cases against Hulu LLC, the online
video service, and Roku Inc., a developer of home entertainment
electronics.  The patent cases against the television manufacturers are
presently on hold pending the outcome of a complaint Rovi filed
with the U.S. International Trade Commission. The Washington-
based commission has the power to bar importation of products
that infringe U.S. patents.  Novartis Sues Sun Pharma Over Patent for Bone-Strengthening Drug  Novartis AG (NOVN)  filed a patent suit in federal court in  New
Jersey  following  Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries Inc. (SUNP) ’s
application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to sell a
generic form of the bone-strengthening drug Zometa. Such suits
are frequently filed whenever an application is made to sell a
generic form of a patented drug.  Sun, based in Mumbai, is accused of infringing patent
7,932,241, which was issued in April 2011. Novartis seeks a
court order barring Sun from making, importing or selling a
product that infringed the patent.  Zometa, a bisphosphonate drug, is used to treat
osteoporosis and bone diseases in cancer patients. In May 2011 a
jury in Brooklyn ruled that Zometa didn’t cause bone death in
the jaw of a man who received injections of the drug.  That case was Hogan v. Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp., 06-
cv-260, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  New York 
(Brooklyn).  The new patent case is Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corp. v.
Sun Pharmaceuticals Industries Inc., 2:12-cv-04393-SDW-MCA, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Newark).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  British Shoe Fans Creating Faux Louboutins With Red Paint  British fashionistas with yearnings bigger than their
pocketbooks aren’t letting the trademark battle between
Christian Louboutin and Yves St. Laurent SAS/France get in the
way of their desire for chic shoes, the U.K.’s Telegraph
newspaper  reported .  Pricey Louboutin shoes are known for their distinctive red
soles, which are also the subject of the trademark dispute with
Yves St. Laurent, according to the Telegraph.  Women who can’t afford the shoes are buying small sample
bottles of red paint and using it to transform their less-
expensive shoes into faux red-soled Louboutins, the Telegraph
reported.  U.K.-based  Home Retail Group (HOME) ’s Homebase unit told the
Telegraph that sales of sample size paint in several bright red
colors have risen 40 percent in the past year, with many
customers saying they intend to use in on their shoe soles.  Apple Must Publish Notice Samsung Didn’t Copy IPad in U.K.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  was ordered by a judge to publish a notice on
its U.K. website and in British newspapers alerting people to a
ruling that Samsung Electronics Co. didn’t copy designs for the
iPad.  The notice should outline the July 9 London court decision
that Samsung’s Galaxy tablets don’t infringe Apple’s registered
designs, Judge Colin Birss said yesterday. It should be posted
on Apple’s U.K. home page for six months and published in
several newspapers and magazines to correct any impression the
South Korea-based company was copying Apple’s product, Birss
said.  The order means Apple will have to publish “an
advertisement” for Samsung, Richard Hacon, a lawyer for
Cupertino, California-based Apple, told the court. “No company
likes to refer to a rival on its website.”  Apple is fighting patent lawsuits around the globe against
competitors including Google Inc.,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Samsung as it
competes for dominance of the smartphone and tablet computer
markets. The firms have accused each other of copying designs
and technology in their mobile devices. Legal battles about the
similarity of Samsung and Apple tablets are being fought in
Germany, the Netherlands and the U.S.  Birss said in his July 9 ruling that Samsung’s tablets were
unlikely to be confused with the iPad because they are “not as
cool.” He declined yesterday to grant Samsung’s bid for an
injunction blocking Apple from making public statements that the
Galaxy infringed its design rights.  “They are entitled to their opinion,” he said.  Apple spokesman Alan Hely didn’t immediately respond to a
phone call and e-mail requesting comment on the judge’s order.  “Should Apple continue to make excessive legal claims
based on such generic designs, innovation in the industry could
be harmed and consumer choice unduly limited,” Samsung said in
a statement after the hearing.  “The war between these two companies seems to be  Comments made by Apple after that ruling unfairly implied
that Samsung had copied designs, Samsung’s lawyer Kathryn
Pickard said at the hearing. That “caused real commercial
harm.”  As well as Apple’s website, the company must pay for
notices in the Financial Times, the  Daily Mail , Guardian Mobile
magazine, and T3, according to a draft copy of the order
provided by Samsung’s lawyers.  Apple’s lawyer said the company would appeal the July 9
decision and Judge Birss granted the company permission to take
its case to the court of appeal.  The case is Samsung Electronics (UK) Ltd. & Anr v. Apple
Inc.,  High Court  of Justice,  Chancery Division , HC11C03050.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Judge Calls U.S. the ‘Enemy,’ Steps Down from Megaupload Case  The  New Zealand  judge hearing the Megaupload extradition
case has recused himself after describing the U.S. as the
“enemy,” the  BBC  reported.  Judge David Harvey was presiding a case in which the U.S.
government has asked that Megaupload founded Kim Dotcom be
turned over to face prosecution for copyright infringement and
fraud, according to the BBC.  He made his remark at the NetHui Internet conference in
Auckland July 12, as part of a discussion on the proposed Trans-
Pacific Partnership treaty, an IP rights accord, the BBC
reported.  The chief judge of the district court in New Zealand said
Judge Harvey decided to recuse himself because his remarks
“could reflect on his impartiality, according to the BBC.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland,  California , at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 