-- Arizona Judge Told Sheriff to Blame for Latinos’ Abuse
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   H e r m a n n
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/arizona-sheriff-arpaio-goes-to-trial-over-immigration-crackdown.html
Joe Arpaio, the sheriff of  Arizona ’s
Maricopa County, allowed racial profiling and arbitrary stops of
Latinos as part of a crackdown on illegal immigrants, a federal
court judge was told.  Stanley Young , a lawyer for five individuals who sued
Arpaio, said yesterday in his opening statement at Phoenix trial
that he would prove how the crackdown resulted in the
“denigration of Hispanics.”  “It is our view the problem starts from the top,” Young
told U.S. District Judge G. Murray Snow, who will decide the
case without a jury. “We hope the court will compel the MCSO to
honor the Constitution and put into practice procedures used by
other law enforcement agencies to prevent racial
discrimination.”  Snow will hear evidence that Arpaio’s so-called saturation
patrols, which started in 2007 and have included hundreds of
volunteer posse members, used pretextual traffic stops to arrest
Latinos who they suspected were illegal immigrants and who
weren’t suspected of having committed a crime.  Timothy Casey, a lawyer for the sheriff’s office, said in
his opening statement that, “evidence shows that race and
ethnicity had nothing to do with traffic stops.”  “Arpaio does not select sites for saturation patrols and
has never suggested a site based on a citizen letter,” Casey
said. The patrols were planned “based upon an area’s crime
history -- ethnicity of the constituency played no role.”  December Ruling  The class-action lawsuit was brought on behalf of all
Latinos who, since January 2007, have been stopped, detained,
questioned or searched by the sheriff office’s agents in
Maricopa County. The judge in December ordered the office not to
detain people based only on reasonable belief or knowledge they
are illegal aliens.  “While MCSO officers can, of course, continue to
investigate federal and state criminal law, including
immigration-related criminal law, to stop people pursuant to
such law, officers must have reasonable suspicion that the
person is violating that law,” Snow said in his Dec. 23
decision.  Being in the U.S. without proper authorization is a civil
violation and isn’t in itself a crime, the judge said in the
ruling.  U.S. Citizens  Of the five named plaintiffs in the lawsuit, four are U.S.
citizens and one had a valid visa when he was stopped.  They seek a court order that their constitutional rights
were violated, including their right to equal protection under
the law and their right not to be subject to unreasonable
searches and seizures. They want the judge to order changes in
the sheriff’s office and to appoint a monitor to oversee
compliance.  Lawyers for the sheriff’s office said in court filings that
the plaintiffs were stopped by deputies because they were
violating state traffic laws, not because they were Latino. The
deputies at the time of traffic stops were certified by U.S.
Immigration and Customs Enforcement to enforce both criminal and
civil federal immigration law, according to a June 2011 filing.  “The illegal immigrants identified in the county are
generally not from  China , the Caribbean, North Africa, Eastern
Europe, or the  Indian subcontinent ,” the sheriff’s lawyers
said. “The fact that most illegal immigrants discovered in
Maricopa County are from  Mexico , and thus Latino by definition,
is neither shocking nor indicative of racial animus against
Latinos.”  ‘Crime Suppression’  Arpaio’s department covers Arizona’s biggest county by
population, with 3.8 million residents. His methods, including
the saturation patrols or “crime suppression” sweeps in
predominantly Latino areas in and around Phoenix, the state’s
largest city, have made him a hero to groups seeking a crackdown
on illegal entrants to the U.S. and a target of advocates for
immigrants’ rights.  The case, backed by the  American Civil Liberties Union  and
the Mexican American Legal Defense and Education Fund, involves
allegations similar to those made by the U.S.  Justice Department 
in a civil lawsuit filed in May against Maricopa County and
Arpaio.  The Justice Department’s lawsuit accuses the sheriff of
“intentionally and systematically” discriminating against
Latinos. Arpaio, who has been elected five times and served 20
years in office, said in response to the U.S. lawsuit that
President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, is going after him to court
Latino voters.  Supreme Court  The U.S.  Supreme Court  in June struck down much of
Arizona’s first-of-its-kind state law against illegal
immigrants, ruling that states must defer to the federal
government on immigration policy, an election-year victory for
Obama.  The high court invalidated criminal restrictions that would
have barred those in the U.S. illegally from seeking work or
being in Arizona without proper documentation. The court didn’t
block a requirement that local police check the immigration
status of people they suspect are in the country illegally,
while leaving open the possibility of later challenges.  The Supreme Court’s decision may undercut similar laws in
other states and will have repercussions for the November
presidential election as Obama and Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  vie for Hispanic votes.  Supporters of Arizona’s law said the federal government
isn’t doing enough to crack down on an estimated 11.5 million
people in the country illegally.  The case is Melendres v. Arpaio, 07-02513, U.S. District
Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net 
William Hermann in U.S District Court in 
Phoenix at  aphoto61@cox.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  