-- Rioting Maruti Workers Face Murder Charges After Death
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m   a n d   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-07-19T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/maruti-suzuki-turns-violent-disruption-vehicle-output.html
Indian authorities threatened to
charge all 3,000  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL)  union workers at a
plant after a riot that the labor union says began when a
supervisor insulted an employee because of his caste.  Authorities will press charges of murder and attempted
murder against all rioting workers at Maruti’s Manesar plant
because they engaged in a mob attack that led to a person’s
death, Maheswar Dayal, deputy commissioner of police, said in an
interview yesterday. The police have arrested 99 workers and
deployed 1,200 officers to secure the area, Director General of
Police  Ranjiv Singh Dalal  said.  Indian police occupied the suspended factory, which
accounts for about 40 percent of Maruti’s total capacity, as
they begin investigating the company’s most violent labor clash.
Maruti and  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269)  shares tumbled as the violence
revived concerns about recurring labor disputes at the Indian
carmaker, which suffered through a 33-day labor strike last year
that drove down profit.  “I think it may take 8-to-10 days to resume operations at
Manesar,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst with BRICS Securities
Ltd. in Mumbai. “The concern is that with this shutdown, the
majority of Maruti’s diesel car production may be hit as the
Swift and DZire’s diesel models are made at Manesar.”  A person was burnt to death and at least 70 managers at the
factory were injured, K.K. Sindhu, police commissioner for the
Gurgaon district, said in a phone interview. Maruti identified
the deceased as Awanish Kumar Dev, a human resources general
manager.  Suzuki, which  owns  a majority stake in the Indian carmaker,
said production facilities weren’t damaged by this week’s riot.  ‘Crazy Scene’  “This is a crazy scene of violence,” Dalal said. “There
are skirmishes between workers and management everywhere, but
this kind of violence will not be tolerated.”  At the factory, located about 50 kilometers (31 miles)
southwest of  New Delhi , trucks rolled in yesterday carrying
police, who formed a security cordon around the plant. Two dozen
private guards manned the gates of the closed factory, which
only had police inside.  Maruti shares tumbled 8.9 percent, its biggest drop in
almost two years, to 1,117.30 rupees in Mumbai. Suzuki fell to
its lowest close since February 2009 in  Tokyo , dropping 3.8
percent to 1,451 yen.  Both Maruti and the union blamed each other for the
incident.  Caste Insult  According to Maruti, the dispute began July 18 after a
worker beat up a supervisor on the shop floor. The workers’
union then prevented management from taking disciplinary action,
blocking managers from leaving the factory after work, Maruti
Suzuki said. Workers attacked managers after talks to resolve
the dispute failed, with workers setting property on fire,
ransacking offices and damaging facilities, according to the
statement.  Two Japanese executives were hospitalized, though neither
is in critical condition, said Ei Mochizuki, a Tokyo-based
spokesman at Suzuki. Damages were restricted to offices, not
production facilities, Mochizuki said.  The workers’ union said it was keen to have a dialogue with
the company to resolve the matter and that workers were attacked
by bouncers working for Maruti while discussions were ongoing
with guild leaders.  Pointing Fingers  The incident started after a supervisor abused a worker and
made derogatory remarks about his lower caste, known as Dalit,
Maruti Suzuki Workers’ Union President Ram Meher Singh said in
an e-mailed statement. The company suspended the worker instead
of taking action against the supervisor, Singh said.  Maruti spokesman Puneet Dhawan couldn’t be reached by
telephone and didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
labor union’s statement.  Production at the factory, which makes Maruti Suzuki’s
Swift compact cars, had to be halted, the company said. Output
at the larger Gurgaon plant continued normally, it said.  The company’s factory in Manesar, built in 2007, has a
capacity to produce 550,000 cars annually, about 40 percent of
Maruti’s total capacity of 1.45 million cars, according to the
company’s website. Manesar is 25 kilometers south of Gurgaon.  The company is building a third unit at Manesar that is due
to be completed in 2013, with a capacity to produce 250,000
additional units.  Industrial Hub  In October, a labor strike in Manesar halted output of
Swift compact cars. Workers also staged strikes at parts maker
Suzuki Powertrain India Ltd., causing production to be halted at
Maruti’s factory in Gurgaon, also near the capital. The strike
ended after an agreement was reached between management, workers
and the state government. The strike cost the company more than
40,000 units of production, Maruti said.  The Manesar-Gurgaon region is an industrial hub that is
home to factories of  Hero MotoCorp Ltd. (HMCL) , Honda Motorcycle &
Scooter India Pvt., and auto parts suppliers Sona Koyo Steering
Systems, and  Rico Auto Industries Ltd. (RAI)   In the past few years, there have been strikes at factories
belonging to Rico, Honda and Hero as workers stopped work to
demand higher pay and permanent employee status for contract
employees. In 2008, the managing director of Graziano
Trasmissioni India Ltd. was beaten to death after a group of
dismissed employees turned violent, police said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  