-- Asian Currencies Strengthen on U.S., China Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 2012-07-19T09:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/asian-currencies-strengthen-on-u-s-china-stimulus-speculation.html
Asian currencies advanced on
speculation policy makers from the U.S. to  China  will increase
economic stimulus measures to support growth, spurring demand
for the region’s exports and financial assets.  Malaysia’s ringgit reached a two-week high and South
Korea’s won rose for a fifth day, its longest rally in a month,
after data showed U.S. housing starts gained 6.9 percent in June
to the highest level since 2008. The  Federal Reserve  is prepared
to “take further action as appropriate” and has the capacity
to make more bond purchases, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in
his Congress testimony yesterday. Asian economies may need to
ease further as  Europe ’s debt crisis damps growth, the  Asian
Development Bank  said today.  “The market is hoping that some stimulus measures from the
U.S. and China are on the table,” said Irene Cheung, a
Singapore-based currency strategist at Australia & New Zealand
Banking Group. “This will be supportive of risk assets.”  The ringgit strengthened 0.3 percent to a two-week high of
3.1530 per dollar as of 4:20 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The won closed 0.3 percent higher at
1,139.15,  India ’s rupee advanced 0.3 percent to 55.302 and
Thailand’s baht climbed 0.1 percent to 31.68.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s currencies, rose for a fifth day while its 60-day
historical volatility was steady at 3.68 percent. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index of equities advanced 1.6 percent, the biggest
daily gain this month.  Hyundai Stake Sale  Korea’s currency advanced after investors bought $129
million of local shares more than they sold this week through
yesterday. Hyundai Heavy Industries Co., the world’s largest
shipbuilder, sold a 705 billion won ($617 million) stake in
Hyundai Motor Co., boosting the prospect of fund inflows.  The stake sale “will support the won,” said Byeon Ji
Young, a Seoul-based currency analyst for Woori Futures Co.  China’s  yuan  was little changed at 6.3700 per dollar in
 Shanghai  versus 6.3702 yesterday. The People’s Bank of China set
the currency’s daily reference rate at 6.3126, or 0.02 percent
stronger than yesterday.  China has “relatively large” room to boost fiscal
spending to spur growth, Zhang Peng, a researcher with the
Fiscal Research Institute at the Ministry of Finance in Beijing,
said in an interview yesterday. China needs to adopt a
“moderately easing” policy when growth is below 8 percent, the
Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing Fan Jianping,
chief economist at the State Information Center.  ‘Reviving Growth’  The world’s second-largest economy  expanded  7.6 percent
last quarter from a year earlier, the slowest pace in more than
three years, according to the latest government data.  “Given reviving growth is a priority, China has to
implement policies that encourage investment, which could spur
some demand for the yuan,” said  Daniel Chan , executive vice-
president at Glory Sky Global Markets Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “Yet,
the yuan won’t appreciate much because the government also wants
to safeguard export growth.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso slid 0.2 percent to 41.743,
reversing an earlier gain of as much as 0.2 percent. Indonesia’s
rupiah was steady at 9,479, Taiwan’s dollar gained 0.1 percent
to NT$29.984 and the Vietnamese dong was little changed at
20,850.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  