-- S&P 500 Reaches Two-Month High on Earnings as Oil Gains
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-07-19T20:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/asian-stocks-aussie-advance-on-homes-data-u-s-earnings.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to a two-month high, amid better-
than-estimated earnings and speculation that disappointing
economic data will lead the  Federal Reserve  to add stimulus. Oil
surged, while crops rallied as a drought intensified.  The  S&P 500  increased 0.3 percent to 1,376.51 at 4 p.m. in
 New York , its  highest  close since May 3. Ten-year Treasury
yields rose one basis point to 1.50 percent. The Dollar Index, a
gauge of the currency against six major peers, lost 0.2 percent
after gaining as much as 0.1 percent. Oil rallied 3.1 percent to
a two-month high of $92.66 a barrel. Soybeans reached a record
and wheat climbed to the highest since 2008 as the worst U.S.
drought since 1956 scorched fields.  Equities started the session higher following better-than-
forecast earnings at companies from  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  to EBay Inc. Stocks briefly turned lower as
reports showed existing home sales unexpectedly declined, the
Conference Board’s gauge of leading economic indicators fell
more than forecast and the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
said its manufacturing gauge shrank for a third straight month.
The rally resumed amid speculation the reports will boost
chances of more quantitative easing from the Fed.  “The tug-of-war continues,” said Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17 billion at BB&T Wealth Management
in Birmingham, Alabama. “Earnings reports have been positive,
but weakening economic data has tempered investor enthusiasm,”
he said. “Always waiting in the background is the increasing
possibility of another round of QE.”  Stocks have rallied for three straight days after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  outlined to the Senate Banking
Committee various options to ease policy further, including more
purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities and
altering the Fed’s language on the outlook for  interest rates .  Earnings Season  Earnings have exceeded analyst forecasts at about 71
percent of the 102 companies in the S&P 500 that reported
results this month, according to data  compiled by Bloomberg. 
Profits are down 0.7 percent for the group and projected by
analysts to have decreased 2.1 percent for the entire index in
the second quarter, which would mark the first year-over-year
decrease since 2009.  Indexes of technology and consumer-discretionary companies
rose more than 1 percent to lead gains among the 10 main
industries in the  S&P 500 (SPX)  today.  IBM Jumps  IBM jumped 3.8 percent and added 54 points to the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average. (INDU)  At $195.34 a share, IBM is the highest-
priced stock in the Dow and accounts for  11.4 percent  of the
price-weighted average. The company’s decade-long shift to
higher-margin software sales helped IBM overcome a slowdown in
technology spending last quarter and boost its full-year
earnings forecast.  EBay surged 8.6 percent to $43.95, the highest price since
2006, after sales and profit topped estimates as more U.S.
consumers shopped for new items on the site.  The S&P 500 has rallied almost 8 percent from a five-month
low on June 1, bringing it about 3 percent away from a four-year
high reached in April. The rebound came after the index tumbled
9.9 percent from April 2 through June 1, approaching a so-called
correction of 10 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  advanced 1.1 percent to the
highest level since April 3 as Electrolux AB and  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA) 
climbed more than 6 percent after earnings topped estimates.  European Stocks  Sandvik AB (SAND) , the world’s biggest maker of metal-cutting
tools, rallied 6.1 percent in  Stockholm  after reporting second-
quarter profit that beat estimates on manufacturing demand in
North and South America. Remy Cointreau SA surged 6.2 percent to
a record as France’s second-largest distiller had first-quarter
revenue growth that exceeded projections.  Oil advanced to a two-month high on rising concern that the
Middle East will lose stability and speculation governments will
act to spur economic growth. Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  threatened a forceful response against  Iran , which he
blamed for a suicide attack in  Bulgaria  that killed Israeli
tourists, and as Syrian government forces battled rebels in
Damascus. China has “relatively large” room to boost fiscal
spending to support economic growth, a government researcher
said.  Soybean futures for November delivery on the Chicago Board
of Trade rallied 2.4 percent to $16.5825 a bushel and reached as
high as $16.7375. Wheat jumped as much as 3.9 percent to $9.38 a
bushel, the most since August 2008, while corn retreated from
near a record.  Drought Worsens  More than half of the contiguous U.S. states were in
moderate to extreme drought at the end of June, the highest
percentage since December 1956, according to the National
Climatic Data Center.  United Nations Certified Emission Reduction offsets for
December dropped as much as 5.1 percent to a record 2.82 euros a
metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London as
European Union officials struggle to cope with an oversupply of
carbon permits.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose five basis points to 7.01
percent, increasing for a sixth straight day. The nation sold
bonds due in 2014 at an average yield of 5.204 percent, compared
with 4.335 percent when they were last sold on June 7. It sold
five-year notes at 6.459 percent, compared with 6.072 percent on
June 21 and seven-year securities at an average yield of 6.701
percent.  Spanish Debt  Demand for the two-year debt was 1.9 times the amount sold,
compared with 4.26 last month and the bid-to-cover for the 2017
securities was 2.06, compared with 3.44 in June, the Bank of
Spain said.  Rates on Austrian, Belgian and French debt touched record
lows amid demand for sovereign debt considered to be safe.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  of equities in developing
nations climbed 1.2 percent to post its biggest gain in a week
and reach its highest level since July 6. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese  companies  listed  in  Hong Kong 
jumped 2.4 percent, the most this month. China’s Premier Wen Jiabao will probably decide to reduce banks’ reserve
requirements and encourage corporate lending as the cabinet
meets to discuss efforts to revive economic growth, the swap
market indicates. Benchmark indexes in  South Korea  and  Taiwan 
gained more than 1.4 percent. Russia’s Micex Index jumped 0.6
percent as oil gained. The ruble strengthened 1.1 percent
against the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  