-- Aussie Touches 11-Week High as Stocks Buoy Yield Bid
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-19T07:11:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/aussie-touches-11-week-high-as-stocks-buoy-yield-bid.html
The Australian dollar strengthened
to the highest level in 11 weeks against the greenback as Asian
stocks extended a global equity rally, boosting demand for
higher-yielding assets.  The so-called Aussie gained for a fifth day before U.S.
jobs data that may add to the case for more monetary stimulus
from the  Federal Reserve . Demand for the Australian and  New
Zealand  dollars was supported as volatility for major currencies
slid to the lowest since November 2007, making investments in
nations with higher  interest rates  more attractive.  The Aussie and kiwi “are certainly looking quite strong at
the moment,” said Jeremy Jukes, a foreign-exchange dealer in
Auckland at Velocity Trade Ltd. “Mild weakness in the U.S. data
has been positive for risk assets because there’s going to be
more chance of more stimulus.”  Australia ’s dollar gained as much as 0.4 percent to
$1.0406, the highest level since May 1, before trading at
$1.0404 as of 5:08 p.m. in Sydney. New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.2
percent to 80.19 cents from yesterday, when it climbed 0.3
percent. It earlier touched 80.21, the highest since July 6.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks rose 1.5 percent
following a 0.8 percent advance in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO) 
yesterday.  U.S. Economy  Applications for first-time jobless benefits in the U.S.
probably increased by 15,000 in the week ended July 14 to
365,000, according to median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Labor Department releases figures
today.  The Fed released its Beige Book business survey yesterday,
saying the  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate”
pace last month as retail sales and manufacturing cooled in some
regions. It gives central bankers anecdotal evidence on the
economy before they open a two-day policy meeting on July 31.  Implied volatility on three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies matched yesterday’s low of 8.67 percent, the
least since November 2007, according to the JPMorgan G7
 Volatility Index . The average over the past five years is 12.4
percent. Three-month implied volatility for the Australian
dollar today matched yesterday’s low of 10.05, the least since
May 2.  Carry Trade  The Aussie’s volatility “has made another local low,”
according to a note from  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ’s currency
strategy team led by Ray Attrill. “This means that ‘volatility
adjusted’ attractions of the Australian dollar as a carry trade
are enhanced.”  Central bank interest rates in Australia and New Zealand
are 3.5 percent and 2.5 percent respectively, versus near zero
in the U.S. and Japan.  Australia’s government bonds declined, with the yield on
10-year debt up one basis points, or 0.01 percentage point to
2.94 percent. Sales of A$500 billion ($520 million) of three-
month bills drew bids valued at 8.83 times the amount on offer,
the highest bid-to-cover ratio since April 2011.  “Markets like Australia,  Korea ,  Canada , Singapore that
typically perhaps have been small parts of global portfolios are
becoming more important because the core large markets are
increasingly looking very poor quality,” Richard Yetsenga, head
of global markets research at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd (ANZ) , said in a Bloomberg Television interview. Yetsenga
expects the Australian dollar to rise to $1.05.  In New Zealand, the number of job advertisements in
newspapers and on the Internet declined 1.4 percent in June from
the previous month, according to a report from ANZ.  The country’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates, was little changed at 2.63 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  