-- Aussie Dollar Slides as Stocks Fall Before CPI Report
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-20T06:20:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/aussie-near-11-week-high-on-fed-stimulus-speculation.html
Australia’s dollar fell, snapping
five-days of gains, as a decline in Asian stocks sapped demand
for riskier assets.  The so-called Aussie declined against most of its 16 major
peers before data next week forecast to show consumer prices
grew at the slowest pace since June 1999, increasing scope for
the  Reserve Bank  of Australia to lower borrowing costs. Losses
in the Australian and New Zealand dollars were limited ahead of
U.S. data that may add to the case for more monetary stimulus
from the  Federal Reserve .  The consumer price data “poses some downside risks for the
Aussie,” said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher at Gaitame.com
Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo , a unit of Japan’s largest
currency margin company. “The latest employment data was weak,
so if we start to see inflation slowing as well, that could
raise expectations for an RBA rate cut next month.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.3 percent to $1.0401 as of
4:19 p.m. in Sydney, trimming its weekly advance to 1.7 percent.
The Aussie yesterday rose as much as 0.8 percent to $1.0444, the
strongest level since April 30.  New Zealand’s dollar slid 0.2 percent to 80.18 U.S. cents,
paring its five-day gain to 0.7 percent. The so-called kiwi
yesterday touched 80.55 cents, the strongest since July 5.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of stocks lost 0.8 percent.  Inflation Report  In Australia, consumer prices probably climbed by 1.3
percent last quarter from the same three-month period last year,
according to the median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News before the Bureau of Statistics releases figures
on July 25. That would match the slowest annual pace since June
1999.  Interest-rate swaps  indicate a 65 percent chance the RBA
will lower its benchmark  interest rate  by 25 basis points, or
0.25 percentage point, at its next meeting on Aug. 7, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a 62 percent
chance indicated yesterday.  Australian  government bonds  climbed, with the yield on the
benchmark 10-year security dropping one basis point to 2.93
percent.  U.S. gross domestic product probably expanded at an
annualized 1.5 percent in the second quarter, the slowest pace
since June 2011, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg
before the Commerce Department publishes figures on July 27.  “The  U.S. economy  is losing momentum and there’s growing
expectation that the Fed will do more stimulus,” said Peter Dragicevich, a Sydney-based foreign-exchange economist at
 Commonwealth Bank of Australia. (CBA)  “You also had a solid increase
in commodity prices, and that’s also helping support both the
Aussie and the kiwi.”  -- Editors: Benjamin Purvis, Rocky Swift  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  