-- Australia Business Outlook Dims as Rate-Cut Calls Mount: Economy
-- B y   B r e n d a n   M u r r a y
-- 2012-07-19T03:57:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/australian-business-condition-outlook-slumps-to-three-year-low.html
Australian businesses grew less
optimistic about near-term prospects, signaling a slowdown in
the fastest-growing developed economy that economists predict
will force the central bank to cut  interest rates  again.  The business conditions index for the next three months
dropped to 5, the lowest reading since the second quarter of
2009,  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB)  said in a survey released
today. The second-quarter confidence index slipped to minus 2,
the lowest since the third quarter last year, it showed.  The best-performing developed nation in the first quarter
tracked by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development is showing signs of moderating as  Europe ’s fiscal
crisis weighs on sentiment and restrains hiring. The  Reserve
Bank  of Australia will lower the overnight  cash rate  target by
at least a quarter percentage point by year end, adding to four
reductions made since early November, according to 19 of 21
economists in a Bloomberg News survey released today.  “The cumulative 125 basis points of cuts by the RBA since
late last year does not appear to have fully offset heightened
concerns about Europe,” National Australia Chief Economist  Alan Oster  said.  The local dollar gained for a fifth day, reaching $1.0398,
the highest since May 1. The so-called Aussie bought $1.0391 at
1:54 p.m. in Sydney. A 46 percent surge in the nation’s currency
since the start of 2009 has hurt manufacturers and tourism
industries.  Weaker Employment  Australian companies reported weaker profitability and
transactions, a decline in employment and unchanged order books,
according to National Australia’s survey. The poll of more than
900 companies was conducted May 22 to June 13, National
Australia said.  “While official data imply that the economy grew robustly
in the March quarter, activity in the June quarter appears to
have softened materially,” the Melbourne-based lender said.
“The deterioration in conditions reflected broad-based declines
in trading conditions, profitability and employment
conditions.”  Elsewhere in the  Asia-Pacific (MXAP)  region today, New Zealand job
advertisements fell for a third time in four months, while  Hong
Kong ’s jobless rate may rise to 3.3 percent, according to an
economists’ survey.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.5 percent as of 12:54
p.m. in  Tokyo .  Asian economies may need to ease monetary and fiscal
policies further as Europe’s debt turmoil crimps global growth,
the  Asian Development Bank  said in its inaugural Asian Economic
Integration Monitor report.  Korea Store Sales  In  South Korea , sales at major department stores fell last
month. Outlays at the three biggest chains declined 2 percent in
June from a year earlier after a 1 percent gain in May, the
Ministry of  Knowledge Economy  said in a statement.  Later today, data in Europe will show Italian industrial
orders rose in May, while U.K. retail sales including fuel
increased at a slower pace in June, according to Bloomberg
surveys.  U.S. initial jobs claims rose to 365,000 in the week ended
July 14, while June house sales increased 1.5 percent, reversing
a decline in May, according to Bloomberg surveys. The Conference
Board’s index of leading economic indicators probably fell after
a gain in May, another survey showed.  A weaker U.S. expansion and uncertainty surrounding Europe
were cited earlier this week in minutes of the Australian
central bank’s July 3 policy meeting. The RBA held the rate at a
3.5 percent, the highest among major developed countries.  Australia’s gross domestic product expanded 4.3 percent in
the first quarter this year from a year earlier, the best year-
on-year advance since the third quarter of 2007.  Gold Rush  Powering the Australian economy is the biggest resource
boom since prospectors set off a gold rush in the 1850s. The
latest bonanza -- for  iron ore , coal and natural gas -- is
bringing investment projects the government estimates to be
worth A$500 billion. The  unemployment rate , at 5.2 percent last
month, is lower than 8.2 percent in the U.S. and 11.1 percent in
the euro area.  The expansion probably slowed to 3.4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, according to the median estimate of
18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Growth is projected to
be 3.1 percent this quarter and 3.2 percent in the October-
December period, the survey released today showed.  “Part of the deterioration in conditions may reflect a
weakening in overseas demand for our exports due to the more
uncertain global environment, as well as a material softening in
domestic demand,” National  Australia  said in today’s report.  The RBA has reduced the benchmark borrowing cost four times
in the past nine months -- by 25 basis points at successive
meetings in November and December, by 50 points on May 1 and by
another 25 points on June 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brendan Murray in Sydney at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  