-- Autonomy Founder Mike Lynch Said to Plan Technology Fund
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-07-20T09:15:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/autonomy-founder-lynch-said-to-plan-tech-fund-after-hp-departure.html
Mike Lynch, the founder of U.K.
data-analysis company Autonomy Corp., is planning to set up a
technology investment fund that will back young firms, according
to people with knowledge of his plans.  Lynch, who left  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  this year after the
U.S. company agreed to acquire Autonomy for $10.3 billion last
August, will tap the expertise of other former Autonomy
executives for the fund, the people said, asking not to be
identified as the plans are private. The fund will be based in
London and invest globally, with the aim of using the experience
of Lynch and other executives to assist the companies in its
portfolio, they said.  Hewlett-Packard said in May that Lynch, 47, would leave the
company following a decline in license revenue at the Autonomy
unit, which specializes in helping corporate clients sift
through and analyze large volumes of data. He owned about 8
percent of Autonomy’s shares at the time of HP’s offer,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That stake was then
valued at 505 million pounds, or $834 million.  Hewlett-Packard, based in  Palo Alto ,  California , ousted its
then-chief executive officer  Leo Apotheker  in September of last
year after investors criticized the Autonomy deal, along with
reduced sales forecasts and a short-lived plan to spin off the
company’s personal computer unit.  Whitman Era  Current CEO  Meg Whitman , who quickly canceled the proposed
spinoff, is nonetheless directing spending toward products for
cloud computing, data security, and information management that
could reduce HP’s dependence on lower-margin hardware
businesses. In May, Whitman appointed Chief Operating Officer
Bill Veghte to lead the Autonomy unit.  Lynch will have plenty of company in his new role. London
is becoming an increasingly important center for technology
investment as U.S. venture-capital firms look for hidden gems
and cheaper valuations far from the Silicon Valley spotlight.
The U.K. government is encouraging startups to move to “Tech
City,” a four-mile-long stretch of former industrial zones in
the east of the British capital, where  Google Inc. (GOOG)  announced
plans last year to open a seven-floor hub for young companies
that will complement its existing London offices.  Autonomy traces its origins to a very different part of the
British tech landscape. Founded as a spinout from the University
of Cambridge in 1996, the company was one of the largest in a
cluster of enterprise-focused tech businesses that includes
semiconductor designer  ARM Holdings Plc. (ARM)   This year, Lynch participated in an investment round for
 Featurespace , a Cambridge-based company that provides predictive
software for marketing and the detection of fraud. The
University of Cambridge graduate focused his early research on
the mathematical theories of the 18th-century theologian and
mathematician  Rev. Thomas Bayes , who sought to refine the study
of probability.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in  London  at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  