-- AutoNation Sees Vehicle Sales Boost From Homebuilding
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-07-19T20:20:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/autonation-sees-vehicle-sales-boost-from-homebuilding.html
AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S.
retailer of new vehicles, reported quarterly profit that beat
analysts’ estimates and said a housing rebound will help make
the auto market’s growth sustainable.  Second-quarter net income rose to $78.6 million from $71.9
million a year earlier, the  Fort Lauderdale , Florida-based
company said today in a statement. Profit from continuing
operations climbed to 66 cents a share, topping the 59-cent
average  estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales
increased 17 percent to $3.9 billion.  Pent-up demand that has helped fuel the U.S. auto market’s
growth since industry sales plunged to a 27-year low in 2009 is
also starting to show in the housing market,  Mike Jackson ,
AutoNation’s chief executive officer, said in a phone interview.
New- home construction  has historically performed in tandem with
deliveries of pickups in the U.S.  “If you look at the sustainability of the automotive
recovery, there are fundamental drivers there that are going to
push through a weak economy,” Jackson said. “The same thing is
about to happen in the housing industry.”  Population growth  continued even as home construction came
to a “practical standstill,” Jackson said. That’s helped clear
much of the oversupply of U.S. homes, he said.  ‘Inflection Point’  “The formation of new households is going to resume, and
therefore you’re going to have to build houses again,” Jackson
said. “We’re coming up on that inflection point. People only
live with their parents so long. My sense is we’re coming up on
that moment.”  AutoNation fell 3.9 percent to $40.78 at the close today in
 New York . The shares, which ended trading yesterday at the
highest since September 1990, have climbed 11 percent this year.  Housing starts  rose 6.9 percent to a 760,000 annual pace in
June, the highest level in almost four years, the Commerce
Department reported yesterday in  Washington . Confidence among
U.S. homebuilders increased in July by the most since September
2002, the National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
 index  showed on July 17.  A recovering housing market and improvements in the fuel
economy of pickups such as  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s F-Series will help
sustain growth in truck sales, Michael Maroone, AutoNation’s
chief operating officer, said in a phone interview.  General
Motors Co. (GM)  plans to introduce redesigned trucks next year after
Chrysler Group LLC begins selling refreshed light-duty pickups
in this year’s fourth quarter.  Sales Outpace  “It’s not going to be back to pre-disruption levels until
you see a bigger pickup in housing, but you’ve got trucks that
are very old, very beat up on the road and there is a pent-up
demand,” Maroone said. “The new products and the  fuel
efficiency  will all stimulate it.”  AutoNation boosted new-vehicle sales by 19 percent in the
year’s first six months to 128,503 cars and light trucks,
according to the company’s statement. The industry’s gain for
the period was 15 percent, according to researcher Autodata
Corp.  AutoNation benefited in the quarter from the resurgence of
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , whose U.S. vehicle sales
increased by more than the industrywide gain in May and June.
Japan-based automakers, which make up more than half of
AutoNation’s new-vehicle sales, shipped fewer autos to dealers a
year ago due to parts shortages after the nation’s tsunami.  New-vehicle supply at AutoNation’s dealership ended the
quarter at 49,200, Maroone said on a conference call, a 26
percent increase from a year earlier.  U.S. sales are on pace to rise by at least 10 percent for
three straight years for the first time since 1973. Light-
vehicle sales increased 11 percent in 2010 and 10 percent last
year after falling to 10.4 million in 2009, the lowest annual
total since 1982, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based
Autodata.  AutoNation forecasts industrywide light-vehicle sales will
be “mid-14 million” this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  