-- Avocet Mining CEO Richards Resigns, Cather to Replace Him
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-07-19T16:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/avocet-ceo-brett-richards-resigns-with-immediate-effect-1-.html
Avocet Mining Plc (AVM)  Chief Executive
Officer Brett Richards said he has resigned after running the
Burkina Faso-focused gold producer for two years. He will be
replaced by David Cather.  “I have decided to resign as the chief executive officer
of Avocet Mining to pursue other opportunities, effective
immediately,” Richards said in an e-mail today.  Avocet has plunged 55 percent in London trading since the
end of June, when the company cut its annual gold production
target and said costs would increase. The company lowered its
2012 output guidance to 135,000 ounces to 140,000 ounces from an
earlier target of 160,000 ounces because of a shortage of mining
equipment and lower-than-expected gold grades at its Inata mine.  Cather joined Avocet as chief operating officer in May, the
company said in a later statement. Richards took over as CEO in
June 2010, replacing Jonathan Henry.  “My major focus is going to be on the Inata operation,”
Cather said in a telephone interview today. “There are
opportunities to radically improve the operation. There is going
to be a rich harvest of opportunities to improve the performance
of Inata.”  Cather said Avocet would target 140,000 ounces of gold this
year, at the top of its guidance range, and that the company
would be strengthening its management team starting with a new
general manager at the Inata mine.  Shares Advance  “The operational disappointments and disastrous share
price led to some market dissatisfaction,” Numis Securities
Ltd. said in a note to investors. “Given it appeared that
Avocet has struggled to get a handle on the Inata operation,
Cather’s promotion appears sensible to mitigate this.”  Avocet rose 2 percent to 70.60 pence by the close in London
trading, paring its drop this year to 62 percent.  “The decision to appoint Mr Cather highlights an
operational focus which we expect will be taken well by the
market,” Liberum Capital Ltd. said in a note today. “Avocet is
now a turnaround story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  