-- House Votes to Let U.S. Military Keep Sponsoring Sports
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-07-19T03:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/lawmakers-vote-to-let-u-s-military-continue-sports-sponsorships.html
The U.S. House turned back an effort
to ban Pentagon recruiters from spending millions on NASCAR
teams and sports events.  An amendment that would have prohibited the military from
spending $72.3 million on sponsorships was defeated on a
bipartisan vote of 202 to 216.  NASCAR , the  National Football League  and  National
Basketball Association  lobbied against the proposal. It pitted
lawmakers who said they were trying to cut wasteful spending
against some members from southern states where race car driving
is popular.  “When we start micromanaging advertising programs that try
to recruit National Guard members, we’ve sort of slipped into
the absurd,” said North Carolina Republican  Patrick McHenry .
“This is a huge return for the buck. This is why Fortune 500
companies actually advertise through NASCAR.”  Republicans and Democrats who opposed the amendment said it
could increase costs for the Pentagon. If unable to recruit
through sports, the military would have to pay more in bonuses
to recruit and retain personnel, they said.  The proposal was offered by Georgia Republican Jack Kingston and Minnesota Democrat Betty McCollum.  ’No Accountability’  “This program has no accountability,” Kingston said. “We
can spend this money a lot better than we are today.”  The Army announced earlier this month that it wouldn’t
continue sponsoring a NASCAR team after this year, saying the
spending can’t be justified.  “It doesn’t work and that’s why the Army has dropped it,”
McCollum said.  The National Guard spent $136 million between fiscal 2008
and 2012 to sponsor Dale Earnhardt Jr.’s No. 88 NASCAR racing
car, McCollum said.  She said it would be “irresponsible and outrageous” for
Congress to continue allowing the Pentagon to sponsor sports
while cutting funding for services that aid struggling families
and communities.  Earlier, NASCAR backers used a procedural move to remove
similar language from the underlying bill,  H.R. 5856 , which
would provide $608.2 billion for the Defense Department next
year.  Sports marketing is the “most efficient tool” to reach
potential recruits, the sports industry said in a July 16  letter 
to House leaders.  “As major companies and nonprofits know well, sports
marketing is a unique opportunity to reach young adults,” the
organizations wrote. “Given the success of the military’s use
of professional sports to reach out to the American people, we
encourage you to support the U.S. Armed Forces and enable them
to continue to have the same access to media and venues as world
leading businesses and nonprofits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at   krizzo5@bloomberg.net  