-- Lawyer Pay, King & Spalding, Venable: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-19T18:58:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/lawyer-pay-king-spalding-venable-business-of-law.html
Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP was assailed by
the U.S. trustee who supervises bankruptcies over bonus and
retention plans that she said may not be cost effective or
economically feasible for a liquidating law firm.  Dewey, which owes secured lenders more than $225 million,
now employs 52 people, plus managers, to bill former clients and
collect money with help from an operational staff. Retention
payments of $450,000 might not be economically feasible and the
liquidating firm hasn’t provided information to support its
bonus plan, the trustee, Tracy Hope Davis, said in a filing
yesterday in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan .  The defunct firm is proposing to pay as much as $700,000 in
bonuses. Davis, who oversees bankruptcies in the  New York 
region, earlier criticized nine of Dewey’s proposals to hire
advisers, including the law firm Togut Segal & Segal LLP, and a
six-week budget of $7 million for paying the firms. A judge
approved several of the hirings anyway.  Albert Togut declined to comment on the trustee’s latest
objections.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  News  Law Firm Starting Salaries in Drop 35 Percent Over Two Years  Starting salaries for those who join law firms have fallen
35 percent over the past two years.  The median law firm starting salary in 2009 was $130,000.
By 2010 it was $104,000, and for the Class of 2011, it has
dipped below six figures to $85,000, according to the National
Association for Law Placement.  Associates at the biggest law firms can still expect an
annual starting salary of around $160,000, but there are fewer
of those jobs, which explains what’s dragging down the median.  For all law graduates, whether they work in law firms or
elsewhere, the median has fallen 17 percent over the past two
years to $60,000.  The latest research comes on the heels of a June report
that only 55 percent of the Class of 2011 found permanent full-
time jobs that required passing the bar. The class of 2012 sits
for the bar exam next week.  News Corp. Didn’t Disclose Executive’s Phone-Hacking E-Mail  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British publishing unit failed for months to
disclose in civil litigation an executive’s e-mail with
instructions on hacking the mobile-phone voice-mail of a “well-
known person.”  The e-mail was found by the company in March during a
required search for evidence and was only shared with victims
yesterday, after police alerted them to its existence,  David
Sherborne , a lawyer for dozens of people who had their messages
intercepted, said at a London hearing yesterday.  “We had to be told about it by police, even though News
International knew about it,” Sherborne said, referring to the
unit. “We have a real concern about the way this disclosure is
being conducted” because the e-mail is of “enormous
significance” in the overall case, he said.  News Corp., the New York-based company controlled by
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , is trying to move on from the scandal
after the victims’ civil case and a parallel media-ethics probe
that began last year revealed damaging e-mails and text messages
about hacking and other wrongdoing. Judge Geoffrey Vos, who is
overseeing the civil cases, said in January the company
destroyed evidence to hide the extent of the problem.  Lawyers with Linklaters LLP, which represents News
International, said they discovered the e-mail in the context of
a separate phone-hacking search requested by police and that
they forgot to give it to victims in the civil case.  Vos said the London-based law firm apologized for the
oversight and that he believed its explanation of what happened.
The identities of the executive who wrote the e-mail and the
person it was about should remain secret, he said, to prevent
the information from affecting related criminal cases.  While Sherborne didn’t challenge the explanation, he said
the oversight raised concerns the company’s process of carrying
out court-ordered searches for e-mail evidence may be
inadequate, and that e-mails of equal importance may not yet
have been discovered.  The hacking scandal at News Corp.’s News of the World
newspaper led to the title’s closing a year ago and triggered a
related bribery probe into the company’s Sun tabloid. About 60
people have been arrested, including former News International
Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks, who was charged in May
with conspiring to cover up the hacking scandal.  The company seeks to settle about 50 combined civil
lawsuits before a trial scheduled for February, with lawyers
saying the number of victims in the case may rise to about 100
by then. A trial scheduled for earlier this year was canceled
after an initial group of test lawsuits were settled.  News International’s lawyer Michael Silverleaf said
yesterday about 250 alleged victims have sought out-of-court
settlements with the company, using a procedure it created
that’s overseen by a former judge. He said about 79 deals have
been reached and they aren’t part of the current case.  For more, click here.  FIFA Appoints Kirkland’s Garcia to Combat Graft in Soccer  World soccer ruling body FIFA named former U.S. Attorney
and Kirkland & Ellis LLP partner  Michael Garcia  as main
prosecutor in an ethics probe.  FIFA also named German judge Hans-Joachim Eckert to head a
judicial body as part of its plans to combat corruption. The
moves were announced at a FIFA news conference in Zurich.  The appointments follow the release of court papers on a
kickbacks scandal and allegations of vote-buying surrounding the
selection of World Cup hosts.  Garcia is a partner in the government and internal
investigations practice in Kirkland’s New York and Washington
offices. He served as the U.S. Attorney for the Southern
District of New York from 2005 to 2008.  Under Garcia, Southern District prosecutors brought charges
against an alleged heroin trafficker extradited from
 Afghanistan ; senior executives at Duane Reade Inc. and Refco
Inc. for  securities fraud ; and an accused Russian arms dealer
for outfitting a Marxist guerrilla group in  Colombia .  Kirkland has about 1,500 lawyers in 10 offices in the U.S.,
 Europe  and Asia.  Deals  Cogeco Cable Agrees to Buy Atlantic Broadband for $1.36 Billion  Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA) , the Montreal-based cable-television
company, agreed to buy Atlantic Broadband for $1.36 billion,
helping it expand into the U.S.  Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP and Stikeman Elliott LLP are
representing Cogeco in the transaction. The Simpson Thacher team
is led by corporate mergers and acquisition partner Gary Horowitz. Additional partners include Ellen Patterson, mergers
and acquisitions; Rob Holo, tax; James Cross, banking and
credit; and David Rubinsky, executive compensation and employee
benefits.  Stikeman’s legal team included Warren Katz, mergers and
acquisitions; and Jean Lamothe and Sylvia Avedis, financial
services.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP represents Abry Partners and its
portfolio company Atlantic Broadband. The Kirkland team is led
by partners Armand Della Monica and Joshua Kogan in New York.  Wiley Rein LLP represents Cogeco Cable Inc., providing
communications regulatory advice on the proposed transaction.
Communications partners James R.W. Bayes, Wayne D. Johnsen and
Thomas J. Navin are lead lawyers for Wiley Rein in this matter.  Cogeco is purchasing the company from Abry Partners and Oak
Hill  Capital Partners  in a deal that’s expected to be completed
by the end of the year, the Canadian company said yesterday in a
statement. Gleacher & Co. was the financial adviser on the
transaction, Cogeco said.  Cogeco is pushing into the U.S. after abandoning the
struggling European market, where it wrote off the value of its
Portuguese unit Cabovisao-Televisao por Cabo SA and lost $248
million last year. The purchase of Atlantic Broadband also helps
reduce its dependence on Canada, where it competes with larger
cable operators  Rogers Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , BCE Inc., Telus
Corp. and Shaw Communications Inc.  Atlantic was formed in 2003 after it purchased cable
systems from St. Louis-based Charter Communications Inc., the
fourth-largest U.S. cable system. It operates cable systems in
four main areas around Western Pennsylvania, Miami Beach,
 Maryland  and  South Carolina .  Firm News  King & Spalding Names New Managing Partners in Two Offices  King & Spalding LLP has appointed new managing partners in
its Atlanta and  Singapore  offices. Alan J. Prince will be the
new managing partner for the firm’s Atlanta office and John Savage will take the helm in Singapore.  Prince and Savage replace Mason W. Stephenson and Philip R. Weems. Stephenson has been King & Spalding’s first and only
office managing partner in Atlanta, and after 10 years in that
role, has decided to refocus on his real estate practice, the
firm said. Weems, who will continue to serve as co-leader of the
firm’s global energy practice, will return to the Houston
office, while maintaining his practice in the Asia-Pacific
region.  Prince is a partner in King & Spalding’s corporate practice
group. He has experience with corporate finance transactions and
mergers and acquisitions, and advises public companies on SEC
reporting and disclosure matters and corporate governance
issues. He also serves as a counselor to public company boards
of directors.  Savage is a partner in the firm’s international arbitration
practice group and a founding member of the Singapore office. He
has worked in Asia for over 10 years and is the regional
arbitration practice’s leader, the firm said.  King & Spalding has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the U.S.,
Europe, the  Middle East  and Asia.  Moves  Houston Trial Lawyer Graham Hill Joins Heard Robins  Heard Robins Cloud & Black LLP announced that trial lawyer
Graham Hill has joined the firm as a partner in Houston. Hill,
who will focus his practice on commercial business litigation,
class-action mass torts and products liability, was previously a
partner at Locke Lord LLP, the firm said.  Hill has represented clients in  Texas  and throughout the
U.S. for more than 30 years. His courtroom accomplishments
include handling the nation’s first courtroom trial over the
recalled diet drug Fen-Phen and negotiating a $1 billion class-
action settlement for patients harmed by defective hip implants,
the firm said.  He is a former chairman of the Houston Bar Association’s
Litigation Committee and former president of the Houston Trial
Lawyers Association.  Heard Robins is a civil law boutique focusing on commercial
and tort litigation. The firm has offices in Houston, Santa Fe,
 New Mexico  and Baton Rouge,  Louisiana .  DLA Piper Hires Energy, Real Estate and Maritime Partner  DLA Piper LLP announced that Glenn A. Reitman has joined
the corporate and finance practice as a partner in the Houston
office. He was previously a partner at Thompson & Knight LLP,
the firm said.  Reitman’s practice includes project finance, structured
finance, leveraged buyouts, restructurings and reorganizations,
financings in master limited partnership transactions, private
equity, derivatives and workouts. He counsels U.S. and
international financial institutions and borrowers in commercial
and real estate finance transactions with a focus on energy,
commercial and real estate. Reitman also has experience in
maritime transactions, including construction, finance,
acquisition and divestitures, time and bareboat charters, the
firm said in a statement.  DLA Piper has 4,200 lawyers in 31 countries and 77 offices
throughout the Americas, Europe, Middle East, Asia and
Australia.  Venable Hires New York Partner for Labor and Employment Group  Venable LLP has added labor and employment defense
litigator Brian J. Clark as a partner in its New York office.  Clark joins from Clifton Budd & DeMaria LLP, and previously
served in the Office of the Solicitor at the U.S. Labor
Department, the firm said.  Clark represents private and public sector management-side
clients in labor, discrimination, wrongful discharge, benefits
and other labor and employment-related suits. He has been active
in the health-care field, representing both major hospitals and
care organizations in employment related issues, the firm said.  Venable has more than 500 lawyers with seven U.S. offices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  