-- May Is Questioned Over U.K. Account of G4S Olympic Shortfall
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-19T23:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/may-is-questioned-over-u-k-account-of-g4s-olympic-shortfall.html
The head of the U.K. Parliament’s
Home Affairs Committee, which is examining  G4S Plc (GFS) ’s failure to
provide enough security staff for the London Olympics,
questioned the home secretary’s account of the affair.  Keith Vaz, from the opposition  Labour Party , said
Conservative Home Secretary Theresa May had informed lawmakers
that she only knew of G4S’s difficulties on July 11, even though
a letter sent by May yesterday shows her office was aware on
June 27, after a meeting of an Olympics security committee.  “The home secretary told the house that she only became
aware of a shortfall on July 11,” Vaz said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. “However, this letter clearly states they
were warned of a possible shortfall in guards on June 27 at the
Olympic Security Board, two weeks before.”  The announcement last week by G4S that it wouldn’t be able
to deliver all the 10,000 security guards it had pledged to
deliver for the games has cast the biggest shadow over the
preparations for the Olympics, which begin on July 27. The
government was forced to assign an extra 3,500 soldiers to fill
the gap.  Vaz said May’s letter shows that “we now know there must
have been serious concerns as some 725 military personnel were
deployed and contingencies started to be made before July 11.”  Labour’s home-affairs spokeswoman,  Yvette Cooper , asked why
May had waited until now to give details of what the government
knew and when.  ‘Selective Account’  “The home secretary was asked repeatedly when she and the
 Home Office  were warned about problems at G4S, and she
repeatedly gave everyone the impression they had only known
since July 11,” Cooper said in an e-mailed statement last
night. “She needs to explain urgently how she justifies having
given Parliament and the public such a selective account, and
why the Home Office were so slow to respond.”  Ministers agreed yesterday that there was no need to deploy
extra troops for the games on top of the 17,000 already helping
to provide security, though contingency plans were made for more
soldiers to be brought in if needed.  “We can confirm that we are putting a further 1,200 troops
on standby as a sensible and prudent measure to provide
resilience to the Olympic security effort,” the defense
ministry said in an e-mailed statement. “This is in addition to
the military contributions already announced and will help
rebuild our contingency.”  ‘Huge Resource’  G4S said in a statement last night that it “continues to
focus huge resource and effort” on increasing the number of
security staff at the games.  “We are making good progress, with daily increases in the
number of people working at Olympic venues as well as in the
number of people who have completed the necessary training and
related accreditation processes,” the Crawley, southern-England
based company said.  In her letter, May outlined 585.2 million pounds ($920
million) of contracts that the Home Office currently holds with
G4S, a figure that doesn’t include all policing contracts. Chief
Executive Officer Nick Buckles said on July 17 his company’s
deals with the department are worth about 600 million pounds.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  said yesterday the government
should review the ability of G4S to deliver policing contracts
before any more deals are signed with the beleaguered company.  Prime Minister  David Cameron  repeated his pledge to make
G4S pay a financial price for its failure.  “If a company doesn’t fulfill its contract the company
should be gone after for that money,” he told reporters
yesterday in  Afghanistan , where he was visiting British troops.
“It’s very important that we allow them to carry out the role
they are contracted to deliver. We will do what is necessary and
contracts that aren’t fulfilled will have very tough financial
consequences.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  