-- Back-to-School Sales to Gain Most Since 2003, NRF Says
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/back-to-school-sales-to-gain-most-since-2003-nrf-says.html
Back-to-school spending in the U.S.
is poised to increase the most since 2003 as shoppers replace
apparel and electronics that their kids had to “make-do” with
last year, according to a survey.  The average person with students in kindergarten through
12th grade plans to spend $688.62 on clothing and supplies,
jumping 14 percent from $603.63 a year earlier, the  National
Retail Federation  said in a statement. The NRF cited a survey of
8,509 consumers conducted by BIGinsight on July 2 to July 9.  While pent-up demand and increased enrollment will drive
sales, 85 percent of consumers with school-aged kids said the
economy will still affect their spending this season, as the
 unemployment rate  lingers above 8 percent and  consumer
confidence  dropped in July to the lowest level this year.  “People don’t look at back-to-school shopping as a
discretionary expenditure,” Matthew Shay, chief executive
officer of the Washington-based NRF, said in a telephone
interview. “A significant number of consumers indicated that
they couldn’t hold off on these purchases any longer.”  Total spending for all students, including those in
college, is expected to rise to $83.8 billion from $68.8 billion
a year earlier, Kathy Grannis, an NRF spokeswoman, said in a
telephone interview. College students and their families may
spend an average $907.22, up from $808.71 last year.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index (S5RETL)  has risen 17
percent this year through yesterday.  Discounters Benefit  Still spooked by a recovering economy, 67.1 percent of
consumers plan to shop at  discount stores  for school apparel and
accessories. Same-store sales for such discounters as  TJX Cos. (TJX) ,
which owns T.J. Maxx and Marshalls, topped analysts’
expectations in June, boosted by consumers looking for deals.  Retailers will ramp up promotional savings as consumers
plan to scour department stores and the Internet for the best
deals, Shay said. Nearly 40 percent of consumers plan to take
their shopping lists online, up from 32 percent a year earlier.  “The budget-conscious consumer has not forgotten about
price, quality or value,” Pam Goodfellow, consumer insights
director at BIGinsight, said in a statement. “We’re merely
seeing a more savvy shopper.”  Electronics retailers may also see an increase in traffic
during the back-to-school season as compared to last year, with
60 percent of respondents saying they’re looking to invest in
smartphones, tablets and other devices after putting off these
purchases in past years.  Shopping Earlier  Consumers are beginning back-to-school shopping earlier
this year, as parents hope to spread out their spending, the
report said. Retailers are racing to snatch up these early
spenders.  Target Corp. (TGT)  has already began advertising “smart deals
for back to college” on the top of its website that links to a
checklist and array of college essentials for browsers to buy.
 Macy’s Inc. (M)  also has posted a “college lifestyle” section on
the homepage of its website.  Office Depot Inc. (ODP)  offers free shipping on its website for
orders of $50 or more and breaks down the “back to school”
section of its website by grade category.  “We fully expect retailers to be aggressive with their
promotions both in-store and online, keeping an eye on inventory
levels as families look to spread out their shopping throughout
the entire summer,” Shay said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  