-- Bank Law Change May Hurt Zambian Exporters, Mines Chamber Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-07-19T15:06:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/bank-law-change-may-hurt-zambian-exporters-mines-chamber-says.html
Proposed legislation forcing Zambian
exporters to bank their earnings locally could drive up costs
for companies in  Africa ’s biggest copper producer, Chamber of
Mines General Manager Frederick Bantubonse said.  The government is drafting the statutory instrument to
boost economic growth, the Times of Zambia said on July 14,
citing Deputy Finance Minister Miles Sampa. Exporters will need
to obtain letters of credit from the government before exporting
goods, and deposit the proceeds with local banks, the state-
owned newspaper reported.  Miners sell their products mainly in dollars, and “there
will be the cost of converting the forex” into the local kwacha
if the planned law, known as Statutory Instrument 34, requires
companies to do so before depositing the cash in local banks,
Bantubonse said by phone from Lusaka, the capital.  Glencore International Plc, London-based  Vedanta Resources
Plc (VED)  and Canada’s  First Quantum Minerals Ltd. (FM)   have mines in the
country.  Companies may need to keep export earnings in Zambian bank
accounts for one or two months under the new legislation,
Bantubonse said, adding that there was a lack of clarity as the
government had not yet disclosed details.  The  Finance Ministry  has not consulted the Chamber of Mines
over the planned legislation, he said.  “There is now a war between industry and the government”
because the state has not adequately consulted business over
legislative changes this year, Bantubonse said. The government
on May 18 implemented a new law banning local transactions in
foreign currencies, forcing companies to accumulate kwacha.  The legislation was the main cause of a 9 percent rally in
the kwacha from the start of June until July 11, which made it
the world’s best-performing currency in the period,  Michael Keenan , a Johannesburg-based strategist at Absa Capital, a
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  unit, said July 18.  “These fluctuations make it difficult for the economy,”
said Bantubonse. Sampa did not respond to calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  