-- Banks in Crosshairs as Coakley Pushes Mortgage Relief
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/banks-in-crosshairs-as-coakley-pushes-mortgage-relief.html
Martha Coakley , the Massachusetts
attorney general whose 2010  U.S. Senate  loss cost Democrats a
filibuster-proof majority, has been clawing back political
respect by declaring a one-woman war on  Wall Street ’s role in
the collapse of the housing market.  The loss for her party, it turns out, was her state’s gain.  Coakley, the first woman to occupy her post, used the
defeat to redouble efforts as Massachusetts’s top law
enforcement officer. She got hundreds of millions of dollars in
settlements with  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  and Option One. She objected to industry-friendly terms in a
national foreclosure accord while suing the banks herself. She
joined a state-federal probe of the housing bust and held up a
 Bank of America Corp.  deal until the lender offered $3 billion
in additional relief. Reforming bank practices after the
recession requires “severe” financial penalties, she said.  “Wall Street doesn’t understand jail,” Coakley said in an
interview. “Wall Street understands losing their bonuses.”  Nina Simon , litigation director of at the  Center for
Responsible Lending  in Washington, a nonprofit group that fights
predatory consumer lending, said Coakley has helped lead a small
group of state  attorneys general  still seeking redress for
homeowners affected by the subprime mortgage debacle.  “She is one of the leading AGs on this issue in trying to
get redress for people for the various causes of the housing
crisis,” Simon said of Coakley, who turned 59 on July 14.  Foreclosure Settlement  In February, Massachusetts was one of 49 states to sign on
to a $25 billion foreclosure settlement with the banks. By July
31, both houses of Massachusetts’s legislature must approve a
final version of a bill championed by Coakley and opposed by the
financial industry that would force banks to provide loan
modifications to borrowers.  Taking the podium before a group of bankers in May, she
delivered a clear message: She isn’t done with the mortgage
industry.  Coakley was making her case for the proposed law, opposed
by the  Massachusetts Bankers Association . It aims to prevent
foreclosures by requiring lenders to modify home loans. Coakley
wants banks to stop what she calls unnecessary foreclosures and
help the state recover from the housing bust.  “If you can keep someone in their home and it’s
commercially reasonable, that is what you should do,” Coakley
told the bankers’ conference. “We’re not asking banks to lose
money. We’re not saying anybody should get a handout.”  Career in Doubt  Coakley’s failure two years ago to win the U.S. Senate seat
left vacant by Senator Edward M. Kennedy’s death drew the ire of
fellow Democrats nationwide and left her career prospects in
doubt. The loss to now-Senator  Scott Brown  upended national and
state politics, handing the seat that was Kennedy’s for almost
47 years to a Republican.  A poll by  Suffolk University  in Boston after the election
showed 52 percent of Massachusetts voters viewed Coakley
unfavorably.  “A lot of people were writing her political obituary,”
said  Kevin Conroy , who worked for Coakley in the attorney
general’s office and managed her Senate campaign. “There was a
general feeling she wouldn’t be able to recover from this.”  Two years later, Coakley has rebounded. A University of  New
Hampshire  poll in March found she was the most popular
politician in Massachusetts. Her favorability rating had risen
to 62 percent. That was higher than Brown and fellow Democrats
including Governor  Deval Patrick , Senator  John Kerry  and
 Elizabeth Warren , who is challenging Brown for his Senate seat
in the Nov. 6 election.  Succeed Patrick  Coakley would also beat Democratic rivals in a primary race
to succeed Patrick as governor, a Suffolk University poll found.  “She got a chance to reinvent herself as a candidate and
kind of make amends for what many prominent national Democrats
had said about her,” said  David Paleologos , director of the
 Suffolk University Political Research Center . “She had to do a
gut check. She had to reach back and do what she needed to do to
make good on herself and her campaign. And she did it.”  After graduating from Boston University School of Law in
1979, Coakley worked at two law firms, including Goodwin Procter
LLP, then in 1986 joined the  district attorney ’s office for
Middlesex County, which includes Cambridge. She served as an
assistant district attorney in Lowell, a city north of Boston,
where she prosecuted drunken driving, domestic violence and drug
cases.  She left the following year to join the U.S. Justice
Department. After a stint with the department’s Organized Crime
Strike Force, she returned to the district attorney’s office,
rising to chief of the child-abuse unit.  Louise Woodward  In 1997, she found herself in the national spotlight when
she prosecuted British nanny Louise Woodward for the death of an
8-month-old boy. Woodward was convicted of second-degree murder,
which was later reduced to involuntary manslaughter by a judge.  Coakley got her first experience as a political candidate
that same year, losing a race for state representative. She ran
for district attorney the following year and won.  After eight years as Middlesex County district attorney,
she was elected attorney general in 2006.  In the 2010 race to fill Kennedy’s seat, she sailed through
the primary, beating U.S. Representative Michael Capuano. In
heavily Democratic Massachusetts, the primary win made her the
early favorite, said  Maurice Cunningham , a political scientist
at University of Massachusetts-Boston.  Facing Brown  Brown was a relatively unknown state senator from the
suburbs, while Coakley had statewide name recognition as
attorney general, Cunningham said. One poll showed her with a
15-point lead going into the race.  Brown surged, denouncing President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care legislation, as Coakley stumbled. She came off as aloof and
unengaged with voters, at one point scoffing at the idea of
going to an outdoor hockey game at Fenway Park, home of the
 Boston Red Sox , to shake hands with voters in the cold as Brown
did, Cunningham said.  “She had a distance to her and lack of engagement,”
Cunningham said. “He seemed to be everywhere, and she seemed to
be nowhere.”  Conroy, her campaign manager, blamed voter anger over the
economy and the health-care bill. The campaign should have
acknowledged the anger and better explained the proposal, he
said.  First Republican  Brown won with 52 percent of the vote to Coakley’s 47
percent. The loss cost Democrats the 60-vote majority needed to
advance legislation in the U.S. Senate and put Republicans on
the offensive. Brown was the first Republican elected to the
U.S. Senate from Massachusetts since 1972.  “Right after the election people assumed she would finish
her term and be done with politics,” Cunningham said.  Coakley faced a Republican challenger for attorney general
10 months after the January 2010 Senate loss. She had to rebuild
her reputation and convince voters that she wasn’t taking them
for granted.  Giving up wasn’t an option, Coakley said.  “What was the alternative?” she said in an interview in
her office. “Go home and say, ‘Oh well,’ and sulk in your room?
That’s not my style. I didn’t lose a case in court and then say,
‘Oh I can never do this again.”’  Coakley said she got a morale boost as she campaigned one
day outside a supermarket in a Boston suburb where a man
commended her work as attorney general even though he voted for
Brown for the Senate.  Turning Point  “That was the first indication to me that in the public’s
mind at least, there were a lot of reasons why I might have lost
that didn’t have anything to do with my job or what I’ve done as
AG, and it gave me a glimmer of hope that, ‘OK I can get this
back and get re-elected,”’ she said.  That’s what happened. Coakley beat Republican challenger
Jim McKenna, who got on the ballot after being a write-in
candidate in the primary. She won with more than 60 percent of
the vote in the general election.  “She went back to doing her job, and she went back to
doing it well,” said  Frank Talty , director of the  Center for
Public Opinion  at the University of Massachusetts-Lowell.
“People saw she was doing her job as attorney general, and it
didn’t appear to people she was doing it for higher office.”  Since her failed Senate run, mortgage lenders -- and the
damage done to Massachusetts residents struggling to keep their
homes -- have been one of Coakley’s primary targets.  Bank Settlements  She reached a $102 million settlement with New York-based
Morgan Stanley in 2010 over its role in financing and
securitizing subprime loans. Settlements with Edinburgh-based
 Royal Bank of Scotland  and lender Option One followed in 2011.  Coakley balked at joining a multistate settlement with the
Countrywide Financial unit of Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Bank of America until the lender offered $3 billion in
additional relief for homeowners, according to her office.  And in December, she drew national attention when she sued
Bank of America, as well as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s GMAC Mortgage
unit, for allegedly deceiving homeowners seeking loan
modifications and conducting illegal foreclosures.  Federal agencies and state attorneys general were
negotiating at the time with the lenders over foreclosure abuses
in an effort to reach a national settlement.  Acceptable Deal  Coakley said she sued because she didn’t see an acceptable
deal in sight. During the talks, she was among a handful of
attorneys general, including Eric Schneiderman of New York and
 Kamala Harris  of California, who opposed any agreement shielding
banks from future investigations into their mortgage operations.  “They’re just so big that if they’re getting away with
something and no one stops them, they keep getting away with
it,” Coakley said of the banks. “Our cities and towns and
neighborhoods and the people in them are being affected every
single day by the callousness.”  Coakley has clashed with the industry over her state
foreclosure bill, which passed the Massachusetts House and
Senate. A conference committee must unify two versions of the
bill in time for a July 31 voting deadline by the legislature.  The proposal is intended to reduce foreclosures by
modifying loans and providing affordable payments to homeowners
struggling to keep their homes.  Banks would be required to offer a modification to a
borrower when the value was higher than a foreclosure, according
to Adam Martignetti, chief of staff for the legislature’s Joint
Committee on Financial Services.  Certain Mortgages  Only certain mortgages considered risky would be eligible
for mandated modification. The Senate bill adds an additional
requirement. Lenders, before foreclosing on any loan, must offer
mediation with borrowers to negotiate on a modification.  Kevin Kiley, executive vice president and chief operating
officer of the state bankers’ association, said the legislation
goes too far in requiring modifications.  Lenders should have the discretion to foreclose when
homeowners default, he said. He claimed that a mediation
requirement would delay foreclosures and add to bank costs.  The organization warned lawmakers that banks could face
more litigation under the law and that foreclosure delays hurt
the housing market.  Coakley said modifications are needed to stabilize the
market. Banks’ voluntary actions aren’t enough, and the bill
“forces lenders to make good on the promises they failed to
live up to,” she told the finance committee last year.  Help Homeowners  Coakley has hired specialists to help homeowners obtain
mortgage relief and monitor bank compliance with promises under
the national settlement to modify loans.  The group,  HomeCorps , had more than 2,300 cases and helped
150 homeowners obtain temporary or permanent loan modifications
through June, according to her office.  Coakley has also joined federal and state authorities in an
investigation of any misconduct in the bundling of mortgage
loans into securities during the housing boom.  “If you want to come in and get a result, you have to have
the ammunition,” she said. “You have to have the facts, and
you have to be prepared to back it up.”  Coakley’s comeback has stirred speculation about her
political future. Paleologos of Suffolk University said she
might be able to tap her popularity to make a successful run for
governor -- or even another try for the U.S. Senate.  Gubernatorial races by her recent predecessors,  Tom Reilly 
and Scott Harshbarger, may argue against Coakley’s seeking
higher office. Both lost.  Coakley said she won’t run for governor, and when asked
about another run for Senate, she called the question “too
speculative.” She said her sights are on the next campaign for
attorney general in 2014.  “It’s important to have women running for office,” said
Coakley, who is the lone woman on a wall of photos of previous
attorneys general in her Boston office. “It’s important to have
women in public life out winning and losing and getting back up
again and getting back into the fight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  