-- Bank Bonds Losing Stigma as Earnings Boost Trust: Credit Markets
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-07-19T10:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/bank-bonds-losing-stigma-as-earnings-boost-trust-credit-markets.html
Investors are accepting the smallest
yield premiums on bank bonds relative to industrial companies in
a year as earnings surpass  estimates  at lenders from  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  to  Citigroup Inc. (C)   Relative yields  on U.S. financial debt have dropped to 73
basis points more than those of industrial companies in the
U.S., from 105 basis points at the start of June and the least
since Aug. 2, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show. The
bonds are on pace to produce the best monthly returns since
January, gaining 2 percent through yesterday.  Early readings of second-quarter bank earnings are
providing comfort that financial companies worldwide are
withstanding  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis after spending four
years shoring up balance sheets and almost doubling capital
cushions that protect lenders from losses. In Europe, the gap
between yields on financial institutions and other companies
narrowed to an 11-month low of 108 basis points on June 30.  “People went into earnings season a little bit skeptical
of financials, and the fact they produced good earnings has been
a bit of a relief,” Anthony Valeri, a market strategist in  San
Diego  at  LPL Financial , which oversees $350 billion, said in a
telephone interview. “That’s been a catalyst to cause investors
to take advantage of these cheap valuations at a time when there
are still lingering concerns about growth, which are probably
weighing more on industrials right now.”  ‘Attractive Combination’  Yields on  financial-company bonds  in the U.S. rose to 305
basis points, or 3.05 percentage points, more than Treasuries
with similar maturities in June amid concerns the crisis in
Europe would infect balance sheets globally. Moody’s Investors
Service downgraded 15 of the world’s largest lenders on June 21,
citing their “significant exposure to the volatility and risk
of outsized losses inherent to capital markets activities.”  U.S. financial-company bond spreads have narrowed 114 basis
points this year to 250 basis points, index data show. That
compares with a 29 basis-point drop during the same period to
177 for the dollar-denominated bonds of  companies  from retailer
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  to Anheuser-Busch InBev NV, the maker of
Budweiser and  Stella Artois .  Banks’ “balance sheets are not as leveraged, and the
business models are becoming less complex,” said Jon Duensing,
the Boulder, Colorado-based head of corporate credit at money
manager Smith Breeden Associates. “That can be an attractive
combination for debt investors when considering the likelihood
of repayment.”  Party City  Elsewhere in credit markets, Party City Corp. plans to sell
$700 million of bonds to help fund its buyout by Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP in its inaugural offering. Ally Financial Inc. sold
$731 million of bonds linked to vehicle debt amid a surge in
asset-backed issuance. Hologic Inc., the maker of diagnostic,
medical and surgical devices, cut the  interest rate  on a $1.5
billion loan it’s seeking.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt-market stress, rose 0.19 basis point to 23.88, the widest
in more than a week. The gauge, which has climbed from an 11-
month low of 22.5 on July 12, widens when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows when they
favor assets such as corporate bonds.  The cost of insuring European corporate debt declined for a
third day, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default
swaps tied to 125 investment-grade companies dropping two basis
points to a two-week low of 160.5, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg.  Sovereign Risk  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index linked to 15
governments fell two basis points to 261, holding near the
lowest level since this series of the gauge started trading in
March.  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Bonds of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  were the most actively
traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers
yesterday, with 182 trades of $1 million or more, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority.  Party City may sell eight-year notes as soon as today to
yield about 9.125 percent, according to a person familiar with
the transaction who asked not to be identified because terms
aren’t set.  Thomas H. Lee  Thomas H. Lee said June 5 it agreed to buy a majority stake
in Rockaway, New Jersey-based Party City in a transaction valued
at $2.69 billion including debt after the largest U.S. party-
supplies retailer filed for an initial public offering that
hasn’t been completed.  Ally (ALLY)  paid 70 basis points more than the benchmark swap rate
on a top-ranked slice of bonds maturing in 2.89 years and backed
by loans to dealerships, according to a person familiar with the
offering. The transaction was initially marketed at $409.5
million, the person said.  The deal is part of about $6 billion in securities tied to
household and business borrowings being offered to investors
this week as rising vehicle sales fuel issuance, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Citigroup boosted its 2012 asset-
backed forecast by about 50 percent to $183 billion last week,
with sales linked to autos accounting for about 63 percent of
that, analysts led by Mary Kane said in a July 12 report.  Leveraged Loans  The  Standard & Poor’s/LSTA U.S. Leveraged Loan 100 index 
was little changed at 94.21 cents on the dollar. The measure,
which tracks the 100 largest dollar-denominated first-lien
leveraged loans, had climbed for 14 straight days, the longest
streak since April 2010.  Leveraged loans and high-yield bonds are rated below Baa3
by Moody’s and lower than BBB- by S&P.  Hologic’s seven-year debt, decreased to $1.5 billion from
$1.75 billion, will now pay interest at 3.5 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate, down from 4
percentage points, a person with knowledge of the deal said. The
minimum on the benchmark will remain at 1 percent.  In  emerging markets , relative yields widened three basis
points to 350 basis points, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global index . The measure has averaged 376.3 basis points
this year.  Financial bonds globally are trading at an average 105.7
cents on the dollar, the highest price since October 2010, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show. That compares with a
record 113.7 cents for industrial bonds.  Goldman, Amex  Spreads on European  financial bonds  have narrowed 128 to
287 this year, compared with a decline of 30 to 171 for  non-
financial  companies in the region.  Bank of America bond spreads have declined 270 basis points
to 295 this year through yesterday, and Citigroup spreads have
narrowed 135 basis points to 267, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show.  Companies from Goldman Sachs to  American Express Co. (AXP)  in the
S&P 500 Financials  index  reported an average $4.54 per share of
second-quarter earnings through yesterday, compared with analyst
estimates of $4.18 a share, Bloomberg  data  show.  The ratings cuts by Moody’s last month were widely
anticipated, so the companies’ bonds have since rallied with the
possibility of even greater downgrades removed, Smith Breeden’s
Duensing said. As regulatory changes push banks to lower their
debt burdens and shift their businesses to lower-risk activities
to comply with new capital rules, the debt is more attractive to
investors, he said.  No Surprises  At the same time, a slowdown in the global economy is
beginning to weigh on industrial companies’ earnings. Firms in
the S&P 500 Industrials Sector Index have reported an average of
$5.56 a share, compared with an estimate of $6.09, Bloomberg
data show.  The bank earnings have been positive for credit investors
because “capital levels remain very strong, credit loss trends
are improving and there have not been new negative surprises on
legal/regulatory issues,” JPMorgan strategists led by  Eric Beinstein  said in a July 18 research note.  Bank of America, based in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina ,
reported a second-quarter profit on July 18 as losses in real
estate narrowed and the company reduced allowances for losses
from bad loans. Shares of Goldman Sachs rose July 17 after it
reported the lowest first-half revenue and earnings in seven
years. Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S. bank , reported second-
quarter profit on July 16 that beat analysts’ estimates on
revenue from advising on mergers, corporate lending and
underwriting stocks and bonds.  Smaller Pool  Investors also are chasing a smaller pool of new financial-
company bonds, further bolstering prices, the JPMorgan
strategists wrote. Banks haven’t issued bonds after reporting
earnings this quarter as they have historically, they said,
“likely because bank spreads remain relatively wide and banks
remain very liquid so their need for funding is limited.”  The  face value  of U.S. bank bonds in a Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index has declined to $905 billion through June 30
from a peak of $947 billion in July 2011. That figure increased
every year through 2011, from $34 billion in 1991.  “Valuations do not look stretched and financials are
benefitting from reporting earlier than non-financials and from
investors’ current view that European risk factors have
declined,” the JPMorgan strategists wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  