-- Bin Hammam’s Life Ban From Soccer Overturned by Sports Court
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-07-19T15:05:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/bin-hammam-s-life-ban-from-soccer-overturned-by-top-sports-court.html
Mohamed  bin Hammam ’s lifetime ban
from soccer for allegedly bribing officials in his bid for
FIFA’s presidency has been overturned by sport’s top court.  In its ruling the Lausanne, Switzerland-based Court of
Arbitration for Sport said there was “insufficient evidence”
for soccer’s governing body to expel the Qatari. FIFA acted
after asking former  Federal Bureau of Investigation  head  Louis Freeh  to investigate claims Bin Hammam paid $40,000 to Caribbean
voters in return for their backing.  “The CAS has upheld Mr. Bin Hammam’s appeal, annulled the
decision rendered by the FIFA Appeal Committee and lifted the
life ban imposed on Mr. Bin Hammam,” the court said in a ruling
posted on its website.  The 63-year-old was the head of Asian soccer when he ran
for president of FIFA against incumbent Sepp Blatter. Bin Hammam
ended his campaign shortly before FIFA started an investigation
into him, and days before Blatter was re-elected to a fourth
four-year term as the only candidate.  The verdict is the latest blow to hit FIFA. The
organization responsible for the $5 billion  World Cup , sport’s
most-watched event, has faced corruption scandals and is in the
middle of a program to reform its corporate governance.  CAS said that although it was upholding Bin Hammam’s appeal
it didn’t mean he was innocent of the charges.  ‘Concern’  “It is a situation of ‘case not proven’, coupled with
concern on the part of the panel that the FIFA investigation was
not complete or comprehensive enough to fill the gaps in the
record,” CAS said.  FIFA said in a statement it “has noted with concern the
decision.”  Earlier this week the Asian soccer confederation said it
had provisionally suspended Bin Hammam from any soccer activity
following an audit of the governing body’s accounts. FIFA said
it extended the suspension globally yesterday pending the
conclusion of that case.  The Asian confederation today said Bin Hammam is still
suspended. The governing body declined to comment further in a
statement on its website.  Bin Hammam said he intended to quit the sport once he had
cleared his name.  ‘One Mission’  “I have one aim, one mission, one target and that is to
clear my name and then I say goodbye,” Bin Hammam said in an
interview with the British Broadcasting Corp.’s World Service.
“I have served football more than 42 years, and the last year I
have seen a very bad, very ugly face of sport and of football.”  FIFA banned 11 officials, reprimanded five more and warned
six following its investigation into a specially convened
meeting of the Caribbean Football Union in Trinidad on May 10,
2011, where it was alleged delegates received envelopes stuffed
with $40,000 from Bin Hammam’s campaign. Former FIFA Vice
President  Jack Warner , who arranged the meeting, quit soccer
amid the investigation.  “Mr. Warner arranged for each of the members present to be
offered a personal gift of $40,000 and said that the gift was
from the CFU,” CAS’s written summary of the case said. “The
following morning, at an urgent meeting, Mr. Warner changed his
story, telling those present that the gift was from Mr. Bin
Hammam.”  Warner described himself as a victim of a “witch hunt”
hours after ending a three-decade stay on FIFA’s top board.  Source of Monies  CAS said its panel wasn’t presented with “any direct
evidence to link” Bin Hammam with bringing the money into
Trinidad or its transfer to Warner and the offer to CFU
delegates “for the purpose of inducing them to vote for Mr. Bin
Hammam.”  CAS said it found that Bin Hammam was “more likely than
not the source of the monies” and that his efforts “in
collaboration with and most likely induced by Mr. Warner” may
not have complied with the highest ethical standards in sports.  The court said it would be possible to reopen the case if
evidence related to events in the Caribbean was found by FIFA’s
new independent investigators. FIFA two days ago named former
U.S. attorney Michael J. Garcia as head investigator for its
restructured ethics committee.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  