-- Blackstone Second-Quarter Profit Drops 74% as Fees Fall
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2012-07-19T20:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/blackstone-second-quarter-profit-drops-74-as-fees-fall.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s
largest private-equity firm, said second-quarter profit fell 74
percent as market swings hurt the value of its holdings.  Economic net income, a measure of earnings excluding some
costs tied to the firm’s 2007 initial public offering, dropped
to $212 million, or 19 cents a share, from $804 million, or 73
cents, a year earlier, New York-based Blackstone said today in a
statement. The result beat the 11-cent average  estimate  of 14
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Performance fees in the second quarter declined 80 percent
to $135 million as the value of fund holdings fell compared with
a year earlier. Blackstone, under Chief Executive Officer
 Stephen Schwarzman , has led a push among the largest, publicly
traded private-equity firms to expand beyond traditional buyouts
into real estate,  hedge funds  and credit investing.  “Generally, a pretty miserable situation in the second
quarter,” Schwarzman said today on a call with investors and
analysts. “Markets have been dominated by tepid volumes and
limited conviction. Investors remain apprehensive and hesitant
to make decisions.”  Blackstone rose 0.7 percent to close at $12.99 in  New York .
The stock has declined 7.3 percent this year, compared with the
9.5 percent increase for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Net Loss  Tepid markets have resulted in “a less robust level of
appreciation within the private equity and fund-of-funds
portfolios,” Credit Suisse AG analyst Howard Chen said in a
research note before the earnings were released. “We anticipate
that public equity market depreciation and increased asset price
volatility will weigh on mark-to-market fund valuations.”  Blackstone’s economic net income, or ENI, doesn’t comply
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Under those
standards, known as GAAP, Blackstone had a net loss of $75
million, or a loss of 14 cents per share, compared with a net
gain of $86.2 million, or 18 cents, a year earlier.
Distributable earnings fell to $188 million, from $191 million a
year ago. Blackstone said it will pay a dividend of 10 cents a
share on Aug. 31.  Fees last year were boosted by an accounting measure that
required Blackstone to recognize a larger share of profit in its
real estate business, the company said at the time.  Blackstone is seen as a bellwether for the buyout industry
given its size and reach across markets.  KKR & Co. (KKR) , the New York
firm run by  Henry Kravis  and cousin  George Roberts , is scheduled
to report results next week.  Deals Decline  The value of the Blackstone’s private-equity assets fell
4.2 percent during the quarter as falling stock markets hurt
publicly traded holdings.  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the second-biggest
buyout equity firm, said last week that its private-equity
holdings declined 2 percent.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, overhaul then sell them, and
return the funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms,
which use debt to finance the deals and amplify returns,
typically charge an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent
to 2 percent of committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit
from investments.  Worldwide, the value of private-equity deals announced in
the second quarter fell 36 percent to $101.5 billion from a year
earlier, with leveraged buyouts declining 39 percent to $21.7
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Real Estate  Blackstone was active in several real estate deals during
the quarter as the value of its property holdings gained 2.9
percent. The real estate business, led by  Jonathan Gray , agreed
to buy the Motel 6 lodging chain for $1.9 billion, applied to
buy shopping malls in  Turkey , agreed to buy industrial
properties valued at $2.1 billion from Walton Street Capital LLC
and sold the Wyndham Chicago hotel for $88 million.  Gray has gathered more than $12 billion for the firm’s
latest real estate fund, Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII.
The fund is on course to be the biggest property opportunity
fund ever raised, according to David Chiaverini, an analyst at
BMO Capital Markets Corp.  “Blackstone’s real estate effort remains in a market-
leading position both in terms of portfolio size and its ability
to deploy capital,” Chiaverini said in a July 5 note to
clients.  Blackstone’s credit business, called GSO, was the only
segment to increase profit over last year. Founded in 2005, GSO
is in a “big growth phase” with more than $50 billion under
management, its head,  Bennett Goodman , said in May. Profit rose
31 percent to $54.7 million.  Total assets under management rose to $190.3 billion from
$190.1 billion during the quarter, led by real estate.
Blackstone said it has $36 billion of unspent committed capital,
known as dry powder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  