-- Blackstone-Backed Senrigan Hedge Fund Said to Lose 15% in 1H
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-07-19T04:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/blackstone-backed-senrigan-hedge-fund-said-to-lose-15-in-1h-1-.html
Senrigan Capital Group Ltd., an
Asia-focused event-driven fund backed by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,
lost almost 15 percent in the first six months of this year,
according to a performance estimate sent to investors.  Senrigan Master Fund’s net-asset value fell 6.7 percent in
June, according to the update earlier this month that didn’t
give a reason for the decline, and which was obtained by
Bloomberg News. Its assets dropped to about $754 million at the
end of June, according to the document, after topping $1 billion
at the start of the year.  The  European debt crisis  and worries about a global
economic slowdown have shaken  stock markets  globally and
prompted companies to delay big acquisitions. The value of
announced mergers and acquisitions involving an Asia-Pacific
region company totaled $303.4 billion in the first six months,
16 percent less than a year earlier and the lowest since the
first half of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Event-driven funds invest in securities whose prices are
affected by corporate actions such as mergers and
reorganizations. They require a meaningful mispricing, with a
clear catalyst, in a size appropriate to the fund, said  Peter Douglas , principal of Singapore-based GFIA Pte., which advises
investors seeking to allocate money to hedge funds.  ‘Meaningful Mispricings’  “The meaningful mispricings are clearly there, but the
macro-driven markets that have dominated since 2009 and continue
to dominate are making issuer-specific catalysts unreliable,”
said Douglas. “With fickle market liquidity, size is a handicap
as it constrains the number of opportunities available.”  Katarina Bendle, Senrigan’s investor-relations officer in
Hong Kong, declined to comment.  The estimated June decline was the largest single-month
loss for the Senrigan fund, according to the document sent to
investors. It lost 8.7 percent last year after a 5.9 percent
gain in 2010, the first full year after trading started in
November 2009, according to the document.  The Eurekahedge Event-Driven Hedge Fund Index fell for the
fourth-straight month in June, cutting the year-to-date return
to 1.4 percent. The gauge slipped 4.6 percent last year.  More than 30 mergers and acquisitions involving Asia-
Pacific companies announced earlier this year have been
terminated, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. About
$204.9 billion worth of such deals were brought to completion in
the first half, making it the slowest six months in three years,
according to the data.  Blackstone has invested at least $150 million with Senrigan.
The Hong Kong-based manager was started by Nick Taylor, former
head of Citadel LLC’s principal investments business in  Asia  and
 Europe  in 2008. Most members of its investment team had worked
together at Modal Capital Partners, a hedge-fund unit of Credit
Suisse Group AG that Taylor helped set up in April 1999.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  