-- Bloomberry Poaches Filipinos in Macau for Casino: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   N o r m a n   P .   A q u i n o
-- 2012-07-20T05:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/bloomberry-poaches-filipinos-in-macau-for-casino-southeast-asia.html
Bloomberry Resorts Corp. (BLOOM)  is poaching
Filipino talent from Macau as it prepares to lure Chinese
gamblers from the world’s largest gaming hub to its $1 billion
casino resort in  Manila .  The company has already enticed more than 400 Philippine
nationals from Macau and  Singapore  to work at its Solaire Manila
Resort & Casino, which will target Chinese and local players,
Chief Operating Officer Michael French said in a July 18
interview. Solaire needs as many as 4,500 workers and will open
in the first quarter of 2013.  Solaire’s recruitment efforts show how Macau faces rising
competition for casino workers and high-stake gamblers from
smaller hubs such as the  Philippines  and Singapore. Visitors
from mainland  China  boosted revenue in the former Portuguese
colony by 42 percent to $34 billion in 2011, as casino operators
from  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  to  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  expanded.  “A Chinese high-roller is used to a style in Macau,” said
French, referring to high-stake betters. “So why not hire
someone who has been in that market for two or three years, who
knows how these gamers think, understands the service style and
the mentality of the Chinese gamer, and bring them back?”  The Philippine casino market is set to expand into a $3
billion industry by 2015 from $1.3 billion last year, CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets estimates.  “The Philippines’ gain is Macau’s loss,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , chief market strategist at  BDO Unibank Inc. (BDO)  in Manila,
of Solaire’s push to draw more workers from Macau.  Talent Shortage  The  jobless  rate in the former Portuguese colony of about
500,000 people is 2 percent, the lowest since Bloomberg began
tracking the data in 2002, making it harder for local casino
operators to find workers. By contrast, the Philippine
 unemployment rate  was 6.9 percent in June.  Bloomberry holds one of four licenses the Philippines
awarded to operate gambling and hotel complexes in the 110-
hectare (272-acre) Entertainment City Manila. Japanese
billionaire Kazuo Okada,  Genting Hong Kong Ltd. (GENHK)  and the SM Group
of the Philippines’ richest man  Henry Sy  also have permits.  The company’s loss widened to 99 million pesos ($2.4
million) in the first two months of 2012 from 17.51 million
pesos a year earlier as costs rose more than sixfold. Bloomberry
rose 1.3 percent to 9.92 pesos at the mid-day break in Manila,
snapping two days of declines. The stock is down 65 percent this
year amid plans to sell more shares to meet regulatory rules on
the public ownership of companies.  Among Macau casino operators,  Sands China (1928)  Ltd. is up 8
percent,  SJM Holdings Ltd. (880)  has gained 11 percent and  MGM China
Holdings Ltd. (2282)  has added 10 percent.  Even Split  Locals will make up a majority of Bloomberry’s patrons in
the first year, and it will take two years to three years to
increase the share of international gamblers, French said. His
ideal client mix is an even split of local and foreign gamblers,
who are mostly interested in high-stakes betting. Such high-
rollers can bet as much as $1 million per trip and at times, per
hand in baccarat, he estimates.  Philippine casinos such as Bloomberry “won’t probably get
the top high rollers,” said Richard Laneda, an analyst at
Manila-based CitisecOnline. “But these can bring in the lower
end of the VIP market in  Macau  or Singapore.”  Philippine billionaire Enrique Razon, Bloomberry’s
chairman, said on June 25 that the company will compete with
integrated casino resorts in Macau, Singapore and other
developments in  Asia . Entertainment City Manila can in a shorter
period surpass the gains made by Singapore, where the gaming
industry generated $6.5 billion in revenue in 2011, Razon said
at that time.  Lower Tax Rate  A lower charge or levy for casino operators in the
Philippines than in Macau and Singapore will help Bloomberry and
other Manila casinos, French said in the interview. The
Philippines collects a regulatory fee of 15 percent to 17
percent on revenue from so-called high rollers compared with
Macau’s 40 percent and Singapore’s 25 percent, he estimates.  Manila is also more accessible than Macau, and improvements
in infrastructure and rising investor confidence should bolster
its allure, he said.  The Philippines estimates the Manila casino development
will add 1 million tourists each year and employ 40,000.
Bloomberry plans to hold one more job fair each in Macau and
Singapore to fill the remaining 150 management positions in the
group, targeting Filipinos who have gained experience working in
casinos, hotels and luxury liners, French said.  Overseas Filipinos  About 1.3 million citizens left the Philippines last year
for jobs overseas, according to  government data . Money Filipinos
abroad sent home made up almost 10 percent of the economy that
grew to $225 billion last year.  The country’s economy grew 6.4 percent in the first
quarter, the fastest pace in  Southeast Asia . Economic expansion
in the three months ended June remained healthy, central bank
Governor Amando Tetangco said on July 13.  Money sent home by more than 9.4 million Filipinos abroad
is the Philippines’ largest source of foreign exchange after
exports. Cash transfers climbed to a  record  $20.1 billion in
2011 and the central bank expects remittances to rise 5 percent
this year.  Bloomberry is bringing in Filipinos with at least two years
of experience and an understanding of the business, French said.  Solaire’s senior vice president for gaming operations is a
returning Filipino who has worked for hotels in the Chinese city
and Singapore, and its director for hotel services comes from
Macau operator  Galaxy Entertainment Group Ltd. (27) , French said. Its
vice president for table games is a Filipina coming home after
years overseas.  “This is not a case of a bunch of expatriates running the
company,” French said. “We’re bringing in Filipinos who
understand the business and these are world-class folk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net 
Norman P. Aquino in Manila at 
 naquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at   acordeiro2@bloomberg.net 
Lars Klemming at   lklemming@bloomberg.net  