-- Boehner, McCain Defend Clinton Aide Against Accusations
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-07-19T19:16:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/boehner-mccain-defend-clinton-aide-against-accusations.html
U.S. House Speaker  John Boehner 
defended a senior adviser to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
after five members of his caucus claimed her relatives had ties
to Egypt’s Muslim Brotherhood.  Boehner, an  Ohio Republican , told reporters in Washington
today that while he doesn’t know Huma Abedin personally, his
impression is that she has a “sterling character.” The
accusations made against her in a June 13 letter to the State
Department were “pretty dangerous,” the speaker said.  A day earlier Senator  John McCain , an  Arizona  Republican,
criticized five House Republicans, including former presidential
candidate  Michele Bachmann , who sent the letter alleging
Abedin’s family had connections to the Muslim Brotherhood and
questioning whether she promoted the organization’s cause within
the U.S. government.  McCain, in a Senate floor speech yesterday, called the
allegations “an unwarranted and unfounded attack on an
honorable citizen, a dedicated American and a loyal public
servant.”  “When anyone, not least a member of Congress, launches
specious and degrading attacks against fellow Americans on the
basis of nothing more than fear of who they are and ignorance of
what they stand for, it defames the spirit of our nation, and we
all grow poorer because of it,” the 2008 Republican
presidential nominee said, adding that he has known Abedin for
more than a decade.  Abedin’s Relatives  In the letter, Bachmann and the other  House Republicans 
cited a  report  from the Center for Security Policy claiming that
Abedin’s mother, brother and late father had connections to the
Muslim Brotherhood. It is Egypt’s largest Islamist organization,
from whose ranks the country’s new president, Mohamed Mursi, was
selected.  The Center for Security Policy is a Washington policy
group that likens Islamic extremism to the Communist threat
during the Cold-War era.  The letter said Abedin’s position as Clinton’s aide
“affords her routine access to the secretary and to
policymaking,” and that the State Department has “taken
actions recently that have been enormously favorable to the
Muslim Brotherhood and its interests.”  Bachmann yesterday said she stood by her inquiries, which
she said “are unfortunately being distorted.”  “The intention of the letters was to outline the serious
national security concerns I had and ask for answers to
questions regarding the Muslim Brotherhood and other radical
groups’ access to top Obama administration officials,” she said
in a statement.  ’1,000 Percent’  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
in an interview today that he agreed “1,000 percent” with
McCain’s defense of Abedin.  Florida Senator Marco Rubio, a potential running mate for
presumptive Republican presidential nominee  Mitt Romney , said
today in an interview with  National Public Radio ’s Diane Rehm
that he didn’t “share the feelings that are in that letter.”  “I am very, very careful and cautious about ever making
accusations like that about anybody,” said Rubio, a Tea Party-
backed member of the Foreign Relations Committee.  Kentucky Senator  Rand Paul , a Tea Party Republican who has
advocated cutting off aid to Egypt, said he didn’t share the
concerns Bachmann and her colleagues raised about Abedin.  “I don’t like sending money to Egypt, but, other than
that, I don’t know enough to comment nor am I aware of any
evidence to make that accusation,” Paul said in an interview.  Abedin, the wife of former Representative Anthony Weiner, a
 New York  Democrat, has been an aide to Clinton since 1996.  ’Wise Counsel’  State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell told reporters
yesterday, “the secretary very much values her wise counsel and
support, and we think that these allegations are preposterous.”  Weiner resigned from Congress in June 2011 after a lewd
picture of himself that he had sent to another woman was posted
on the Internet.  Weiner, Abedin and their six-month-old son were featured in
a July 18 People magazine  article  in which the former
congressman said he was “very happy” and “not doing anything
to plan a campaign” for future public office.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  