-- BofA, UBS to Base Interest-Rate Swaps on DTCC Repo Index
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-07-19T15:44:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/bofa-ubs-to-base-interest-rate-swaps-on-dtcc-repo-index.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , UBS AG and
 Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  will support  interest-rate swaps  based on
the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp.’s general collateral
finance repurchase rate.  The scandal impairing confidence in the London interbank
offered rate, a benchmark for $360 trillion in securities
worldwide, has made bankers and investors seek alternative
interest-rate measures that are based on actual trades rather
than submitted quotes. Traders in the $400 billion general
collateral repo market have said they prefer that interest-rate
measure to the U.S. federal funds rate, because it’s more widely
traded and administered by an independent third party.  “The issue is the fed funds market is very small and
doesn’t capture that many transactions with that many players,”
said Paul Scurfield, head of North American short rates at Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in  New York . “That market’s really
withered away right now because of current Fed policy.”  The swaps will use the DTCC GCF Repo index for Treasuries
as the floating portion of transactions. The index is a weighted
average of all general collateral finance repurchase agreements
that are traded between dealers each day through the so-called
tri-party market. Several dealers, including UBS and Nomura,
have signed the licensing agreement for the index, said Bari Trontz, a DTCC spokeswoman in New York.  ‘Efficient Manner’  Daily bank demand for fed funds has dropped as reserves at
the central bank surged after asset purchases were made to spur
growth. Banks’ excess reserves at the Fed were $1.46 trillion as
of July 11, versus an average $1.9 billion in 2007. The Fed pays
banks 0.25 percent on the reserves held at the central bank in a
program started in October 2008 to try to keep the benchmark
U.S. overnight interest rate close to the Fed’s target.  Only counterparties to the  Federal Reserve  that can’t make
deposits with the central bank are willing to lend in the
overnight market now, Scurfield said. The Fed’s target rate for
overnight loans between banks has been locked in a range of zero
to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “It’s a way to take a view on the funding market in an
efficient manner,” he said.  The average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.143 percent today, according to
the DTCC’s GCF Repo index for Treasuries.  The swap, which may have maturities of as much as 30 years,
similar to those based on Fed funds, will also benefit by having
a futures contract based on the same rate, because the two
instruments will create demand in support of each other,
Scurfield said.  Treasuries Index  NYSE Liffe U.S., the New York-based derivatives exchange of
 NYSE Euronext (NYX) , began offering futures based on the DTCC GCF rate
this week. The contracts were developed to give banks a more
direct method of hedging changes in the cost of GCF repos.  Yesterday, 6,680 futures on the DTCC GCF index had changed
hands on NYSE Liffe U.S., said spokesman  Eric Ryan . That’s up
from 2,647 on July 16 and 3,541 trades July 17, he said.  While swaps on the repurchase rate have existed for several
years, the banks are now tying the contracts to the DTCC GCF
Repo index for Treasuries, which was  created  by DTCC in November
2010. Interest-rate swaps are private transactions negotiated
between two counterparties, one of whom agrees to take fixed
interest payments over time while the other agrees to a rate
that can change, or float.  Swaps with the shortest maturities are known as overnight
index swaps, which use the fed funds effective rate as the
floating leg of the deal.  Making Case  “A case can be made for the development of a swap market
using GC Repo in its own right, somewhat similar to the OIS
market. It is unlikely though, for GCF Repo based swaps to
replace either the OIS market or the Libor-based swaps market,
contrary to the expectations of some market participants,”
Citigroup Inc. analysts Neela Gollapudi and Timothy Chung wrote
in a July 6 note to clients.  In a tri-party arrangement, a third party, one of two
clearing banks, functions as the agent for the transaction and
holds the security as collateral. The Fed advised participants
in this market for borrowing and lending securities to cut
reliance on intra-day credit from clearing banks and enhance
risk management, according to a statement on the Fed Bank of New
York’s website yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at   agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 