-- Brazil Signals Further Interest Rate Cuts as Inflation Slows
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i   a n d   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-07-19T14:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/brazil-central-bank-sees-economy-picking-up-while-signaling-cut.html
Brazil ’s central bank reiterated
that inflation will continue to slow toward its target,
signaling it will further reduce  interest rates  that have
already been cut to a record. Swap rates fell.  In the minutes to its July 10-11 meeting published today,
the bank said future monetary easing would be carried out with
“parsimony,” repeating language it used ahead of its two
previous meetings to signal half-point rate cuts. The bank’s
board voted unanimously last week to cut the Selic for an eighth
straight time to 8 percent.  Brazil’s economy has been slow to react to tax cuts, lower
borrowing costs and other stimulus measures as companies cut
production and overstretched consumers delay purchases of big-
ticket items amid a global slowdown. While gross domestic
product  expanded  at half the annualized pace of the U.S. in the
first quarter, policy makers said today that growth will pick up
during the remainder of the year without stoking inflation.  “At the moment the risks for the inflation trajectory
remain limited,” the bank said in the minutes. Policy makers
said the international outlook remains “disinflationary” and a
domestic recovery “gradual,” adding that they don’t anticipate
any “extreme event” in financial markets. The bank said its
central outlook takes into account a “more intense rhythm of
economic activity” in the second half of the year.  Swap Rates  Traders increased bets that central bank President
Alexandre Tombini will reduce the Selic in the next two meetings
as he waits for evidence the economy’s recovery from a
contraction in the third quarter of 2011 is strengthening. Swap
rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the most traded
in  Sao Paulo , fell six basis points to 7.7 percent at 10:51 a.m.
local time. The real fell 0.1 percent to 2.0255 per  U.S. dollar .  “The only thing that will make the central bank stop
cutting is consolidated evidence that economic activity is
accelerating,” Marcelo Salomon, co-head for Latin America
economics at Barclays Plc, said in a phone interview from  New
York . “The bank is very comfortable with inflation.”  The bank has lowered the benchmark rate by 450 basis points
since August in an attempt to bolster economic growth and shield
the second-largest emerging market from the  European debt
crisis .  Traders are betting the bank will lower the Selic by as
much as 75 basis points by November, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on swap rates.  Bad News  Slower growth is translating into smaller consumer price
increases, as  inflation  slowed to 4.92 percent in June, its
lowest level in two years. The central bank targets inflation of
4.5 percent plus or minus two percentage points.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government received more bad
economic news this month, after the government reported that
industrial output fell for a third straight period in May and
retail sales fell the most in more than three years.  Economists covering Brazil cut their 2012 growth forecast
to 1.9 percent, according to the latest central bank survey. The
estimate fell below 2 percent for the first time this year and
marked the 10th straight weekly reduction. GDP expanded an
annualized 0.8 percent in the first quarter.  Inflation Concerns  Still, with the currency declining 7.2 percent in the past
three months, more than all 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg, the cost of imports is under pressure, threatening
the bank’s benign inflation outlook.  The IGP-M index, which is 60 percent weighted in wholesale
prices, rose 1.11 percent between June 21 and July 10, the
Getulio Vargas Foundation said today. That was more than the
forecast of all 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg, whose
median estimate was for a 1 percent rise. Producer prices rose
1.45 percent, the most this year.  “The Brazilian economy will start to react to interest
rate cuts, and economic activity should improve by the end of
the year,” Fernando Fix, chief economist at Votorantim Wealth
Management & Services, said in a July 18 telephone interview
from Sao Paulo. Even so, he said, the pace of recovery is
“frustrating.”  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said on July 4 that gross
domestic product will be expanding at a 3.5 percent to 4 percent
pace in the second half of the year as the stimulus measures
work their way through the economy.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Santiago at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net ;
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  