-- Brazil Said to Study Ending Tim, Oi, Claro Ban in 20 Days
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-07-19T21:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/brazil-said-to-study-lifting-ban-on-tim-oi-claro-in-20-days.html
Brazil  telecommunications regulator
Anatel may lift the ban on sales of data and voice subscriptions
by three of the country’s top mobile phone companies in about 20
days, a government official familiar with the matter said.  Anatel will need at least 15 days to review investment
proposals of  Tim Participacoes SA (TIMP3) ,  America Movil SAB (AMXL) ’s Claro and
 Oi SA (OIBR4)  to improve their networks, said the person, who asked not
to be named because the discussions aren’t public.  Tim was blocked from selling services in 18 of Brazil’s 26
states and in the federal district, while Oi was banned in five
states and Claro in three because of network failures, Anatel
said yesterday. The ban on Claro included  Sao Paulo , the
nation’s most populous state, and Tim was blocked in the second-
and third-biggest states,  Minas Gerais  and  Rio de Janeiro .  “Each company is at a different level right now, so the
goals for each will be different,” Bruno Ramos, private
services superintendent for Anatel, told reporters today in
Brasilia. “Anatel will monitor compliance with the goals
monthly and will issue new suspensions if the levels aren’t
reached.”  The regulator was meeting with Tim and Claro executives
today and will meet with Oi’s tomorrow to discuss their plans,
according to Anatel’s press office. Ramos said Anatel won’t
provide an estimate on when it will lift the ban.  Tim is the nation’s second-largest carrier, with 27 percent
of wireless subscribers, trailing only the 30 percent held by
 Telefonica Brasil SA (VIV) , which wasn’t hit by any sales ban. Claro
has 25 percent of the market, and Oi has 19 percent, according
to Anatel.  Stock Selloff  The sales restrictions led to a selloff yesterday in the
shares of all three companies, with Oi recovering today after
analysts including Luis Azevedo of Banco Bradesco SA said its
ban would hurt less because it only applies in smaller states.  Tim, based in Rio de Janeiro, fell 8.8 percent to 8.63
reais in Sao Paulo.  America Movil  slid 0.6 percent to 17.83
pesos in Mexico City, where it’s based. Rio de Janeiro-based Oi
climbed  4.1 percent to 9.55 reais.  Claro and Tim presented investment plans to Anatel today
that must be improved, Ramos said. The companies will present
plans Monday with specific goals for the next two years, he
said.  Claro is accelerating investments to comply with Anatel’s
demands, Chief Executive Officer Carlos Zenteno told reporters.
The company hopes Anatel will lift the sales ban within 30 days,
he said.  “Claro is working to resolve the problem as quickly as
possible,” he said. “We are prioritizing the delivery of
information required by Antel to get back to normal.”  Tim’s press office declined to comment.  “We continue investing to guarantee the quality of our
services meets your satisfaction,” Tim said in a text message
to clients today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  