-- Brazil’s Raw Sugar Premium Slides on Slow Demand, Higher Futures
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-19T09:35:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/brazil-s-raw-sugar-premium-slides-on-slow-demand-higher-futures.html
Buyers of sugar from  Brazil , the
world’s largest producer, are paying a smaller premium for the
sweetener as the lack of buying and the rally in futures prices
stalled demand, according to Swiss Sugar Brokers.  Raw sugar for loading in August at the port of Santos,
Brazil’s biggest, was trading at a premium of 0.11 cent a pound
to the price of the October contract on ICE Futures U.S. in New
York, the broker said in a report e-mailed today. That compares
with a premium of 0.4 cent a pound on July 10, data from the
broker showed. Sugar futures in New York climbed 8.2 percent
last month as rainfall delayed the harvest in Brazil.  “The absence of demand from destination coupled with the
flat price spike and the flow of sugar to the terminals are the
main cause of the cash values decline,”  Naim Beydoun , a broker
at the company, wrote in the report. He was referring to rally
in sugar futures that attracted the sweetener to be delivered
against the July contract on the exchange.  Cargill Inc., Copersucar SA and ED&F Man Holdings Ltd. took
delivery of about 1.1 million tons of sugar when the July
contract expired in New York. That was the biggest delivery on
the exchange since 2009, ICE data showed. Most of the sugar will
be loaded at the port of Paranagua, Brazil’s second-biggest.  While futures prices have rallied, premiums in the cash
market have declined, suggesting the market is not trading on
the basis of supply and demand fundamentals, Beydoun said. Sugar
production is set to be 10.2 million metric tons bigger than
consumption in the 2011-12 season that started in October,
according to Kingsman SA. A surplus of 9.3 million tons is
forecast for 2012-13, the broker and researcher estimates.  Futures traders appear to be “trading corn and soya,
trading El Nino, trading back the May and June rains in center
south Brazil, and of course trading the speculators money,”
Beydoun said. “The sugar market might need a time machine
vehicle to ride us back to fundamentals.”  Raw sugar for October delivery was 0.9 percent up at 23.15
cents a pound by 5 a.m. in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 