-- Britvic Reports Sales Slide on Fruit Shoot Recall, Wet Weather
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-07-19T07:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/britvic-reports-sales-slide-on-fruit-shoot-recall-wet-weather.html
Britvic Plc (BVIC) , the maker of Robinsons
fruit drinks, reported a drop in third-quarter sales after wet
summer weather stinted purchases and it recalled Fruit Shoot
products in most of its markets because of a packaging defect.  Revenue fell 5.1 percent at constant exchange rates, the
company  said today , hurt by declines in the U.K. and Ireland,
which together account for almost four-fifths of sales.  The Fruit Shoot recall reduced revenue by about 2 percent
in the quarter, the company said. Britvic starting recalling
packs of the children’s drink in the U.K. this month because
caps could have become detached. That action, combined with weak
 consumer spending  and poor weather, means full-year results will
be at the bottom end of estimates, it said on July 11.  Revenue at the company’s international unit slid in the
quarter as the Fruit Shoot recall “materially impacted” the
division’s exports markets, particularly in the Netherlands and
 Belgium , the company said. That offset “strong” sales in the
U.S. In  France , revenue increased 4.3 percent.  “The weak consumer environment and very disappointing
weather at a key time for soft drink sales have had a marked
impact,” Chief Executive Officer Paul Moody said in the
statement. “The decision to recall Fruit Shoot resulted in a
further negative impact. Our resources will be fully focused on
re-establishing Fruit Shoot in the market as soon as possible.”  Britvic  rose  1.8 percent to 291.4 pence at 8:09 a.m. in
London trading, paring the decline this month to 12 percent.  Total sales in the quarter declined 7.6 percent to 300.1
million pounds ($470 million), the company said.  Britvic cut its full-year target for  capital spending  to
about 50 million pounds from 70 million pounds following the
 product recall . The company said it’s reviewing plans for 2013
and expects a reduction compared with previous projections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  