-- BSkyB Minister Hunt Says He’s a ‘Hero,’ Possible U.K. Premier
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-07-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/bskyb-minister-hunt-says-he-s-a-hero-possible-u-k-premier.html
U.K. Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt ,
who faced calls for his resignation over his handling of  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s 2010 bid for  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY) , said he
was now a “hero” once again and refused to rule himself out as
a future prime minister.  In an interview with “The House” magazine, which is
distributed to lawmakers, Hunt was asked if it was still
possible for him to lead Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
 Conservative Party  after being the subject of a parliamentary
motion to censure his handling of the failed takeover offer.  “This is politics, isn’t it?,” Hunt told the magazine,
which was published in London today. “From hero to zero, but
definitely back again. You don’t know where politics is going to
end up. I think it’s best not to have any grand plans, but I
think you just have to come out of these things wiser and
stronger.”  Hunt is asserting his position within the Cabinet before
the ministerial reorganization that Cameron plans for September.
By then the London Olympics, which Hunt is coordinating, will be
over.  Last month, Hunt survived a House of Commons vote called by
the opposition  Labour Party  that sought to force his referral to
an independent watchdog on ministerial conduct. Hunt’s special
adviser,  Adam Smith , quit in April after e-mails released to the
U.K.’s media-ethics inquiry showed he was in constant contact
with a News Corp. lobbyist, Fred Michel, while the culture
secretary was reviewing the bid.  Coalition Partners  While Hunt’s party backed him, the Tories’ coalition
partners, the Liberal Democrats, abstained from the vote,
highlighting their unease at Cameron’s decision to refuse to
refer Hunt for independent scrutiny.  That angered Tory lawmakers who accused their junior
coalition partners of double standards, pointing to their
loyalty to Vince Cable, the Liberal Democrat business secretary.
Cable was stripped of responsibility for reviewing the takeover
in late 2010 after telling undercover reporters he had
“declared war” on News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch . News
Corp. dropped the bid a year ago as the scandal over phone
hacking at its News of the World tabloid widened.  Hunt sought to woo Liberal Democrat lawmakers in his
interview, expressing strong support for an overhaul of the
upper, unelected House of Lords, a key priority of the junior
coalition party, and anticipating a time when the two parties
may need to enter coalition negotiations again.  “I’m a big supporter of Lords reform,” Hunt said. “I
actually would go further than our proposals. I would have a
wholly elected second chamber modeled on the  U.S. Senate  because
I want a stronger Parliament.”  On the Liberal Democrats’ refusal to back him, Hunt said:
“I never interpreted it as a personal thing.”  Hunt also made light of the unseasonably heavy rain that’s
swept Britain in the run-up to the Olympics that start July 27.  “Let’s look at this positively,” he said. “If it rains
that would be a great home advantage to our athletes, because
they are used to it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in  London  at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 