-- Buffett’s Berkshire Seen as Best Housing Pick: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-07-19T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/buffett-s-berkshire-seen-as-best-housing-pick-chart-of-the-day.html
Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A)  is the best investment for anyone seeking to benefit from a
housing-market rebound, according to Joshua Brown, a vice
president at Fusion Analytics Research Partners LLC.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks Berkshire’s Class B stock,
which Brown owns for clients of his New York-based firm. He
cited the holding in a posting on his Reformed Broker website
yesterday, when the Commerce Department reported that new U.S.
homes were started at the fastest pace in about four years.  Class B shares have risen 30 percent from last year’s low,
set on Sept. 22. The shares are 3.1 percent away from the
highest price since October 2008, before the financial crisis
reduced the value of equity investments and derivative contracts
owned by Berkshire.  “It’s got the safety of a well-diversified business and it
hits the housing market from virtually every angle,” Brown said
in the posting. The Omaha, Nebraska-based company owns insurers,
a food distributor, a railroad and a utility, among other units.  Berkshire’s holdings in  Wells Fargo & Co ., the largest U.S.
mortgage lender, and other banks are among the investments that
stand to benefit from a homebuilding recovery, the  posting  said.
Buffett’s company owns a more than $13 billion stake in Wells
Fargo, second to Coca-Cola Co. among its largest holdings.  Several Berkshire units are also poised to gain, Brown
wrote. Benjamin Moore & Co., a paint maker; Johns Manville, a
maker of insulation and roofing materials; and Shaw Industries
Group Inc., a carpet producer, are among them. They are part of
a group that generated 17 percent of first-quarter revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  