-- California Bankruptcies Show Willingness Waning, Moody’s Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-07-19T18:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/california-bankruptcies-show-willingness-waning-moody-s-says.html
Bankruptcy decisions by Stockton and
San Bernardino in  California  signal more cities may be losing
their willingness to pay debt obligations, Moody’s Investors
Service said.  “The looming defaults by Stockton and San Bernardino raise
the possibility that distressed municipalities -- in California
and, perhaps, elsewhere -- will begin to view debt service as a
discretionary budget item, and that defaults will increase,”
Anne Van Praagh, a managing director at the ratings company,
said in a report today.  San Bernardino will become the latest municipality in
California to seek court protection from creditors after the
City Council voted for an emergency bankruptcy yesterday. It
would join Stockton, an agricultural center of 292,000 east of
 San Francisco , and Mammoth Lakes, a mountain resort town of
8,200, by entering bankruptcy proceedings. Stockton is the
largest U.S. city to take the step.  San Bernardino and Stockton are examples of political
unwillingness to place interest payments to bondholders ahead of
essential governmental services amid dwindling cash, according
to Moody’s. As fiscal strains mounted, San Bernardino almost
failed to cover its payroll last month. In Stockton, the police
force shrank 26 percent in four years as murders more than
doubled.  Payment Chances  Cities will probably still avoid defaulting or seeking
 bankruptcy protection , and instead cut spending, raise taxes or
use reserves, Moody’s said.  From 1970 to 2011, only one of the 71 Moody’s-rated
municipal defaults involved a local government that chose that
route due to lack of willingness rather than ability to pay,
according to the report. Most involved enterprise projects such
as convention centers and sports arenas.  Scranton,  Pennsylvania ; Moberly,  Missouri ; and Wenatchee,
 Washington , have also opted to miss debt payments even though
they may have had the resources to make them, according to
Moody’s.  “Events of the last few years prompt us to review our
long-held assumptions about municipal behaviors and attitudes
toward debt repayment,” Van Praagh said in the report. “Even a
slight increase in bankruptcy filings would mark a significant
departure from the historical pattern.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  