-- California’s San Bernardino Votes to Declare Bankruptcy
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-07-19T13:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/california-s-san-bernardino-vote-clears-way-to-bankruptcy.html
San Bernardino, whose government is
under criminal investigation, will become the latest  California 
municipality to seek court protection from creditors after the
City Council voted for an emergency bankruptcy.  A Chapter 9 petition may be entered in the  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Riverside soon, City Attorney James Penman said
yesterday after the 5-2 vote. He didn’t provide a specific time.
The council declared a  fiscal emergency  to hasten the process.  “This has been a time of immense crisis,” Mayor Patrick Morris said. “The city faces insolvency.”  San Bernardino would join California’s Stockton, an
agricultural center of 292,000 east of  San Francisco , and
Mammoth Lakes, a mountain resort town of 8,200 south of Yosemite
National Park, by entering bankruptcy proceedings. The mandated
60- to 90-day mediation with creditors undertaken by both cities
failed to produce agreements needed to keep them out of court.  “We might see more in California, but it is not indicative
of the rest of the market,” said  Peter Hayes , a managing
director at New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , on Bloomberg
Television. BlackRock oversees about $105 billion of municipals.  Defaults Down  Forty-two issuers nationwide have defaulted for the first
time this year, down from 68 in the same period of 2011,
according to Municipal Market Advisors.  Declining tax revenue, growing worker costs, accounting
discrepancies and an almost 12 percent unemployment rate in the
San Bernardino area helped drive the insolvency of the city of
209,000 about 60 miles (100 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles .  San Bernardino confronts a deficit that has reached $45.8
million on a general fund of  $129.4 million  and would probably
run out of money before the end of the state-required 60-day
negotiation period, Andrea Travis-Miller, the interim city
manager, said July 16. The emergency declaration lets the city
skip mediation under California law.  San Bernardino has depleted its general-fund reserves, lost
access to  capital markets , has had its credit lines frozen by
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and must pay cash for goods and services,
according to Morris and Travis-Miller. Also, the city faces a
$3.4 million payment for employee pensions on July 20.  Coffee Credit  Councilwoman Virginia Marquez said even the company that
provides coffee to City Hall is no longer accepting credit. She
joined the majority in authorizing the court filing, which
councilmen Chas Kelley and John Valdivia voted against.  About $152 million of San Bernardino’s $223 million in
long-term bonds “should be unimpaired” by a bankruptcy filing,
Municipal Market Advisors said July 16 in a note to investors,
citing revenue backing the debt from dedicated sources such as
water and sewer services.  “At greater risk of adjustment” during the legal process
are about $48 million in pension-obligation securities, $12.4
million in lease-revenue bonds and $11.5 million in certificates
of participation, according to the note from the Concord,
Massachusetts-based research company.  Municipal bankruptcies in the U.S., while still rare
compared with corporate filings, became more common after the
housing market and financial crisis began in 2007. Almost a
quarter, 10 out of 42 since 1981, were started in the past four
years, according to court records. Jefferson County,  Alabama ,
entered the biggest case last year with $4.2 billion in debt
mostly tied to corruption-tainted bond deals.  Coffers Bare  The votes in San Bernardino yesterday on the emergency and
a bankruptcy filing were postponed two days earlier, even as
Travis-Miller and Morris said the municipal coffers were almost
bare. Council members said they needed more information about
multiple cash accounts, and also agreed to start contract talks
with labor unions. Those negotiations haven’t produced results.  On July 13, the San Bernardino County Sheriff’s Department
said a probe of possible criminal activity in  City Hall  had
begun several months earlier. No further details have been
provided by investigating agencies, which include the police
department and district attorney’s office.  Penman said last week that he had turned over to outside
officials in February “evidence of suspected wrongdoing”
involving years of city accounting. Morris, who took office in
2006, said it was the first time he had heard such allegations.  Special Accounts  For years, Travis-Miller said, the city masked the
magnitude of its fiscal problems by using the special accounts
to supplement the general fund. The manager, who began her job
in May, said she knew of no intentional misdeeds related to the
money movements. Stockton, which became the biggest U.S. city to
enter bankruptcy, cited accounting errors as well.  San Bernardino almost failed to cover its payroll last
month after depleting both its general fund and special accounts
for workers’ compensation, legal judgments, redevelopment and
other purposes, Travis-Miller said in a July 12 interview.  The next step for the city is to set a short-term budget,
which will be the subject of a July 24 council meeting, Travis-
Miller said in a statement following the votes. She said that
talks with creditors and unions may continue before a bankruptcy
petition is delivered to the court, which may take 30 days.  Penman, the city’s lawyer, said a list of creditors must be
compiled, including identifying potential lawsuits.  “We’ll file as soon as everything is ready,” Penman said
in an interview. “There’s no definite time.”  The council first voted to seek  bankruptcy protection  for
the city at a July 10 meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Nash in Los Angeles at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  