-- Cameron Urges Syria President to Go, Puts Pressure on Russia
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-07-19T12:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/cameron-urges-syrian-president-to-go-piles-pressure-on-russia.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
called on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to leave power and
piled pressure on Russia to back “tough” international action
against his regime.  “The message to President Assad is, it is time for
transition, it is time for you to go,” Cameron told a press
conference today in the Afghan capital Kabul. When asked if he
had a message for Syrian ally Russia, he said, “it’s time for
the UN  Security Council  to pass clear and tough messages about
sanctions and be unambiguous in this.”  The comments came a day after a bomb attack in Damascus
killed key members of Syria’s military establishment, leaving
Assad scrambling to stop his family’s four-decade grip on power
unravelling.  The  United Nations Security Council  is due to vote today on
a new resolution threatening Syria with non-military sanctions
unless Assad complies with a UN peace plan that so far has
failed to quell the 17-month conflict. A vote was postponed for
another bout of diplomacy yesterday at the request of peace
envoy  Kofi Annan .  The resolution is tied to Chapter 7 of the UN Charter,
which allows the 15-member Security Council to impose economic
and diplomatic sanctions and authorizes the use of military
force if necessary.  Russia, which has twice blocked measures against its
Soviet-era ally, has signalled it is again unwilling to concede.
Responding to the blasts, Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
told reporters in Moscow that “the UN has no business here.” A
vote is scheduled for 10 a.m. in  New York .  Cameron Appeal  “I would appeal to those that in the past have held out
against tough action against Syria: what more evidence do we
need about a regime that has brutalized its own people,”
Cameron said after talks with Afghan President  Hamid Karzai .  “The alternative to political transition at the top of
Syria is revolution from the bottom in Syria,” he said. “It is
in everybody’s interest that that the transition takes place.
The sooner that happens, the sooner the people of Syria can be
freed from the tyranny under which they are currently
suffering.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Kabul at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  