-- Canada May Wholesale Trade Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-07-19T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/canada-may-wholesale-trade-report-text-.html
The following is the text
of  Canada ’s wholesale trade report for May from
 Statistics Canada .  Wholesale sales rose 0.9% in May to $49.8 billion. The
increase was largely the result of higher sales in the computer
and communications equipment and supplies industry, the motor
vehicle industry and the food industry.  In volume terms, wholesale sales were up 0.4% in May.  Computer and communications equipment and supplies sales post
the largest gain  In May, four of the seven subsectors, accounting for about
70% of wholesale sales, reported increases.  The largest advance in dollar terms was in the machinery,
equipment and supplies subsector, which grew 2.6%. This result
was primarily attributable to higher sales in the computer and
communications equipment and supplies industry (+7.3%), which
had the largest increase since April 2008.  The second-largest gain was in the food, beverage and
tobacco subsector (+1.4%) as a result of higher sales in the
 food industry  (+1.5%), which makes up nearly 90% of the
subsector.  Wholesale sales in the motor vehicle and parts subsector
grew 1.6% in May. The entire increase was attributable to higher
sales in the motor vehicle industry (+2.9%).  Since the beginning of 2012, motor vehicle wholesalers have
seen a return to growth following a year of relatively flat
sales in 2011.  The largest decline in dollar terms was in the
miscellaneous subsector. Sales fell 0.9%, following a 9.4%
increase in April.  Sales up in most provinces  In May, eight provinces posted higher wholesale sales.  Wholesalers in Quebec contributed the most to the national
increase, followed by wholesalers in  Alberta .  In  Quebec , sales were up 2.3% in May, a fourth straight
increase.  Sales rose 1.5% in Alberta, mainly as a result of growth in
the machinery, equipment and supplies subsector, which accounts
for almost a third of the province’s wholesale sales.  Ontario posted a 0.2% increase in wholesale sales in May.  Inventories up slightly  Inventories edged up 0.1% to $59.7 billion in May.
Inventories rose in 15 of the 25 industries.  Wholesalers in the lumber, millwork, hardware and other
building supplies industry (+3.4%) and in the motor vehicle
industry (+3.6%) had the largest inventory increases in dollar
terms.  The inventory-to-sales ratio declined from 1.21 in April to
1.20 in May.  The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the time in
months required to exhaust inventories if sales were to remain
at their current level.  Note to readers  All the data in this release are seasonally adjusted and in
current dollars, unless otherwise noted.  Wholesale sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using import and industry
product price indexes. Since many of the goods sold by
wholesalers are imported, fluctuations in the value of the
Canadian dollar can have an important influence on the prices of
goods bought and sold by wholesalers.  The wholesale sales series in chained (2002) dollars is a
chained Fisher volume index with 2002 as the reference year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  