-- Canadian Dollar Reaches 2-Month High as Sales Rise in May
-- B y   L i n d s e y   R u p p
-- 2012-07-19T21:19:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/canadian-dollar-reaches-2-month-high-as-sales-rise-in-may.html
Canada ’s dollar strengthened to a
two-month high versus its U.S. counterpart as speculation the
 Federal Reserve  and Chinese government will take steps to boost
economic growth spurred demand for higher-risk assets.  The currency headed for a second straight weekly gain on
bets the Bank of Canada will be the first among Group of Seven
peers to raise interest rates. Crude oil, Canada’s biggest
export, climbed above $91 a barrel and stocks gained. Canadian
wholesale sales rose more than forecast in May.  “What’s keeping dollar-Canada at these lows is a bid to
commodities,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange
at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto, said in a telephone
interview. “We have a central banker whose biased toward
hawkish behavior, and ultimately that’s going to put some
tailwind behind the currency as well.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image of
the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.3 percent to
C$1.0074 per U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched
C$1.0066, the strongest since May 16. One Canadian dollar buys
99.27 U.S. cents.  Government bonds  fell, pushing yields on benchmark 10-year
debt up four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.65
percent. The price of the 2.75 percent securities maturing in
June 2022 declined 35 cents to C$109.93.  The  Bank of Canada  plans to sell C$2.6 billion ($2.6
billion) of 10-year debt on July 25. The securities will mature
June 1, 2023.  Moving Averages  The loonie has breached its 50-, 100- and 200-day moving
averages as it approaches parity with the U.S. dollar. The last
time the two traded on a one-to-one basis was May 15, when the
loonie touched 99.90 cents to the greenback. Canada’s dollar has
closed in 2012 as strong as 98.04 on April 27 and as weak as
C$1.0410 on June 1.  Australia’s dollar gained 0.6 percent today to $1.0427 and
rose 0.3 percent to C$1.0504.  “We’re expecting the Canadian dollar to keep grinding
higher against the  U.S. dollar , but lagging the Australian
dollar badly,” said Blake Jespersen, managing director of
institutional foreign-exchange sales in Toronto at Bank of
Montreal, in an e-mail. “We’re mildly bearish from here on the
Canadian dollar. The growth story isn’t improving, and I’m
skeptical that the Fed engages in QE3, which the market is
pricing in, hence this rally.”  The U.S. central bank bought $2.3 trillion of assets from
2008 to 2011 in two rounds of a tactic called quantitative
easing to stimulate the economy.  Raw Materials  Crude oil futures rallied 2.7 percent to $92.32 a barrel in
 New York . The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of  raw
materials  climbed 2 percent. Raw materials including oil account
for about half of Canada’s export revenue. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index gained 0.3 percent.  Canadian wholesale sales rose more than economists forecast
in May, led by purchases of computers and communications
equipment. Sales increased 0.9 percent to C$49.8 billion ($49.4
billion),  Statistics Canada  said from Ottawa. Economists
predicted wholesales would rise 0.2 percent, based on the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey with 16 responses.  The report suggests Canada’s economic growth will “bump
along” close to its current trend, rather than accelerating as
the central bank expects, said Mazen Issa, Canada macro
strategist at the securities unit of Toronto-Dominion Bank in
Toronto.  Inflation Measure  Statistics Canada releases data on the country’s consumer
price index for June tomorrow. Economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg
forecast a 1.7 percent rise in consumer prices over the previous
year and a 2.3 percent gain in the core. The agency will also
release  retail sales  data for May, which economists expect to
have increased 0.3 percent over the previous month, according to
a Bloomberg  survey .  “Governor Carney has downsized growth expectations and a
natural progression of that would be to downsize the
inflationary expectations as well,” Spitz said. “If we see a
major outlier from both a beat, or a miss perspective, then I
think we’ll ultimately see a move lower in the Canadian
dollar.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Spain would
remain liable for as much as 100 billion euros ($123 billion) of
aid. German lawmakers approved their government’s participation
in the euro-area bailout of Spanish banks after the assurance.  Spain’s 10-year government bond yield climbed above 7
percent following a debt sale today. That was the level that
spurred Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  to seek bailouts.  “You’re still seeing demand for Aussie and the Canadian
dollar,”  Stephen Gallo , senior foreign-exchange strategist at
 Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  in  London , said in a telephone interview.
“The markets are playing the debasement trade. They’re buying
the currencies that have positive real interest rates and
selling the heck out of the ones with negative real  interest
rates . It’s ongoing slippage away from the euro.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsey Rupp in New York at 
 lrupp2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  