-- Canada Natural Gas Falls on Outlook for Milder Late-July Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2012-07-19T18:00:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/canada-natural-gas-falls-on-outlook-for-milder-late-july-weather.html
Canadian natural gas dropped for the
first time in three days on concern that moderate weather
predicted for the end of July will limit demand for the fuel to
run air conditioners.  August gas in  Alberta  fell 0.3 percent as MDA EarthSat
Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland , said above-normal
temperatures expected next week in the Midwest and mid-Atlantic
states will drop at the end of July. The U.S. Energy Department
reported today that  stockpiles  rose 28 billion cubic feet to
3.163 trillion last week, 18 percent  above  the five-year average
for the period.  “Storage levels are still very high and we are rapidly
coming to the peak demand period for the summer,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research with IAF Advisors in Houston.
“Demand will now start to fall.”  Alberta gas for August delivery declined 0.75 cent to
C$2.275 per gigajoule ($2.14 per million British thermal units)
as of 1:15 p.m. New York time on NGX, a Canadian Internet
market. Gas traded on the exchange is shipped to users in  Canada 
and the U.S. and priced on  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Alberta system.  Natural gas for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose 1.9 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $2.992 per million
Btu at 1:21 p.m.  Supply Report  U.S. stockpiles in the week ended July 13 rose to a record
for this time of the year. Last week’s inventory gain was less
than the five-year average gain of 74 billion for that period.
The forecast was for an increase of 34 billion cubic feet, based
on a median of 26  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  The high temperature in  Minneapolis  on July 31 may be 80
degrees Fahrenheit (27 Celsius), 2 below normal, according to
 AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania . The next day
Boston’s high may be 10 below normal at 71 degrees.  Demand from power plants, which account for 36 percent of
U.S. gas consumption, peaks in the summer when air conditioning
use is highest.  Volume on TransCanada’s  Alberta system , which collects the
output of most of the nation’s gas wells, was 16.5 billion cubic
feet at noon  New York  time.  Gas was flowing at a daily rate of 2.07 billion cubic feet
at Empress, Alberta, where the fuel is transferred to
TransCanada’s main Line.  At McNeil, Saskatchewan, where gas is transferred to the
Northern Border Pipeline for shipment to the Chicago area, the
daily flow rate was 2.11 billion cubic feet.  The available capacity on TransCanada’s British Columbia
system at Kingsgate was 887 million cubic feet. The system was
forecast to carry 1.73 billion cubic feet today, or 66 percent
of normal capacity of 2.62 billion.  The volume on  Spectra Energy ’s British Columbia system,
which gathers the fuel in northeastern British Columbia for
delivery to Vancouver and the Pacific Northwest, totaled 2.77
billion cubic feet at 12:05 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  