-- Carmike Cheap After 115% Rally Spurs Deal Talk: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 2012-07-19T22:33:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/carmike-cheap-after-115-rally-spurs-deal-talk-real-m-a.html
Carmike Cinemas Inc. (CKEC) , after more
than doubling in price this year, is still the cheapest theater
chain in America for rivals looking to acquire more movie
screens and boost earnings from popcorn and ticket sales.  Carmike shares have surged 115 percent as Chief Executive
Officer David Passman leads a turnaround that analysts project
will return the Columbus, Georgia-based company to profit this
year after six straight annual  losses . Even with the stock gain,
Carmike is valued at 4.9 times earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization in the last 12 months, the lowest
among U.S. cinema operators with a market capitalization greater
than $100 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regal Entertainment Group (RGC)  and  Cinemark Holdings Inc. (CNK)  may be
interested in the $262 million company to gain Carmike’s 2,264
movie screens and more negotiating power with Hollywood studios,
B. Riley & Co. said. China’s Dalian Wanda Group Corp., which
agreed in May to buy AMC Entertainment Holdings Inc., may also
bid for Carmike, according to Maxim Group LLC. Carmike could
fetch at least $20 a share, Macquarie Group Ltd. said, 35
percent more than yesterday’s close. At that price, a buyer
would be paying the lowest Ebitda multiple in eight years among
similar-sized deals for U.S. movie theaters, the data show.  “They’ve done an exceptional job on the attendance side
and also on the concession side, which is why the stock has run
up so quickly,” Chad Beynon, a New York-based analyst for
Macquarie, said in a telephone interview. “They’ve really
turned the corner. It’s a pretty asset right now. I do think it
is a candidate” for a takeover.  Clean Theaters  “We do not comment on rumors of this nature,” Carmike’s
Passman said, according to an e-mail from a spokesman for the
company, after being asked whether the chain has been approached
by potential suitors.  Carmike,  founded  in 1982, emerged from bankruptcy a decade
ago and has since grown to become the nation’s fourth-largest
motion picture exhibitor. It has 236 theaters in states from
 Georgia  and  North Carolina  to Colorado and  Pennsylvania .  Passman, who took the helm in 2009, has worked to improve
Carmike by ensuring cleaner theaters and enticing patrons to
spend more at the concession stands. His strategy is beginning
to pay off, says  John Tinker , an analyst at Maxim in  New York .  Analysts are projecting the cinema chain will  earn  $17
million in net income this year, its first annual profit since
2005, according to estimates and data compiled by Bloomberg.
Sales, which declined the last two years, are estimated to climb
11 percent to a record $536 million, the data show.  ‘Safe Entity’  “This is a relatively safe entity you’re taking over,
which has to be attractive to people,” Tinker said in a phone
interview. “The current team sorted out what really hadn’t been
well managed before.”  U.S. box-office sales have climbed 6.6 percent this year
through July 15 to $6.05 billion and attendance rose 9.1
percent, according to Hollywood.com Box-Office, with hits such
as the superhero blockbuster “Marvel’s The Avengers” and the
young-adult thriller “The Hunger Games.” “The Dark Knight
Rises,” the third installment of the Warner Bros. trilogy
starring  Christian Bale  as Batman, may generate as much as $198
million in this weekend’s opening to become the second-biggest
U.S. debut of all time, Boxoffice.com said.  “It’s a good time for theater companies,”  Eric Green , a
Philadelphia-based  fund manager  at Penn Capital Management Co.,
which oversees $6.8 billion, said in a phone interview.
“Batman’s coming this weekend. People are juiced up on the
theaters at the moment.”  Low Multiple  While Carmike shares have more than doubled this year to
$14.82 as of yesterday, Regal’s stock gained 17 percent and
Cinemark rose 31 percent.  Carmike’s equity and net debt are now  valued  at 4.9 times
its trailing 12-month Ebitda, a lower multiple than every other
 entertainment  facilities and services company in the U.S. with a
market value greater than $100 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The group, which includes Regal and Cinemark as
well as amusement park operators Six Flags Entertainment Corp.
and Cedar Fair LP, trades at a median of 8.2 times Ebitda.  Even using analysts’  estimates  for Ebitda in fiscal 2013,
Carmike has the cheapest valuation at 4.5 times, the data show.  “It could be an attractive acquisition candidate,” Green
said. “It’s trading cheaper than the other cinemas.”  A takeover of Carmike would help Regal, the largest U.S.
theater chain, and Cinemark, the third-biggest, gain more scale
to better bargain with studios from which they purchase movies,
said  Eric Wold , a San Francisco-based analyst for B. Riley. It
would also give them screens in smaller cities where there is
less competition, he said.  New Markets  “It would be an attractive acquisition candidate because
you could get into a new market, expand into areas you haven’t
been at all before,” Wold said. Carmike is “usually the only
theater in town.”  Buyers could reduce overhead expenses by cutting management
positions, and Carmike wouldn’t have to shoulder the costs of
being a public company, Maxim’s Tinker said.  Wanda agreed two months ago to buy AMC Entertainment, the
second-biggest U.S. theater chain, for $2.6 billion including
net debt, creating the world’s largest cinema owner.  China ’s
biggest entertainment group could bid for Carmike next to
increase its foothold in America, Tinker said.  Jeremy Jacobs, a spokesman for Dalian, China-based Wanda,
declined to comment on whether the company is interested in
acquiring Carmike. Ken Thewes, a spokesman for Knoxville,
Tennessee-based Regal, didn’t immediately respond to a phone
call and e-mail seeking comment. Cinemark executives weren’t
available to comment, said Rob Rinderman, an external spokesman
for the Plano, Texas-based firm.  Buying Instead  James Goss, a Chicago-based analyst for Barrington Research
Associates Inc., said that while Carmike is improving, the
company is more likely to acquire smaller cinemas now than sell
itself. Carmike issued 4.6 million shares of common stock at $13
a share in April and plans to use some of the proceeds to make
purchases, according to its May 7 earnings statement.  Carmike is “going from a fix-it to a grow-it strategy,”
Goss said in a phone interview. Selling “could be an endgame.
But since we’re just getting to a point where it’s really
comfortable to show this growth profile, it’s also just as
reasonable to think that they might be able to acquire other
properties and build their own base.”  The company’s  managers  and  stockholders  may be willing to
sell at the right price, said Macquarie’s Beynon, who estimates
Carmike is worth at least $20 a share in a takeover. That would
value the chain at $538 million, including net debt.  Cheap Deal  At that price, a buyer would be paying 5.9 times Carmike’s
Ebitda in the last 12 months, the cheapest valuation among
takeovers of U.S. theater chains greater than $100 million since
2004, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It also would be less
than the 9.1 times Wanda paid for AMC, Beynon said.  B. Riley’s Wold said a buyer could pay a price in the “low
$20s,” and the deal would still add to its earnings.  “Carmike should clearly be in the crosshairs of a lot of
the larger exhibitors,” Wold said. “Given the discount they’re
trading at versus Cinemark and Regal, you could pay a nice
premium and still make it accretive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net . 