-- Chevy’s Cop Cruiser Muscle Car Hits 154 MPH, Nabs Perps
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/chevy-s-cop-cruiser-muscle-car-hits-154-mph-nabs-perps.html
How fast is a cop car, anyway? It’s
a question I ponder every time I spy a police cruiser. Perhaps
I’ve seen too many television police procedurals from the 1970s,
but I’d like to know how a police vehicle would handle in a
real-life car chase.  I’m about to get some hint, as I’m sitting inside the new
Chevrolet Caprice  Police Patrol Vehicle , known as the PPV.
Happily I’m behind the wheel rather than in the rear bench seat
meant for perps.  Unfortunately the cruiser is missing most of the goodies,
including sirens, special horns, gun racks or a big steel front
guard to ram other cars out of the way. (I’d really like one of
those.)  Probably for the best anyhow, as I’d simply leave the
sirens on continuously so I could speed through midday traffic.  My $32,300 as-tested car is an all-black “detective”
model, and it looks all business. A big sedan with large rear
doors (“Don’t hit your head, sir”), it has an air of
sturdiness. Finding its honeycomb grill in your rear view mirror
would put a ding in your day.  While the badge on the hood reads “Caprice,” the PPV
isn’t based on any U.S. civilian car, unlike its two main
competitors, the  Ford Police Interceptor , based on the Taurus,
and Dodge’s Charger.  Gutsy Drive  It hails from GM Holden Ltd., a subsidiary based in
 Australia . Holden has a reputation for gutsy rear-wheel-drive
cars, but I’ve never driven one.  Until now. The PPV is similar to the long-wheelbase  Holden
Commodore , and is available with a 6.0-liter V-8. It’s a muscle
car for the good guys.  I open the door and notice that no dome light comes on.
Ideal for late-night stakeouts. The interior is sparse with only
a smattering of buttons and controls.  No fancy aluminum, wood or fake carbon fiber inserts here,
only hard plastic and extremely functional upholstery meant to
repel dirt and fluids. I can attest to this when I eat a greasy
sandwich inside, something I wouldn’t do in a Mercedes or
Porsche. The mustard wipes right off.  There aren’t a lot of other creature comforts for your
friendly law enforcers. No one-touch automatic windows or
satellite radio. But again, they get the privilege of carrying
guns and driving fast with impunity.  Comfy Seats  The seats however, rock. Super wide and comfy, they were
specially designed to accommodate all the equipment on police
belts. I’d lobby for use of these cushions on more cars.  Lastly, there is a ton of room in the back seat area.
Chevy’s brochure points out that the PPV has three more inches
of rear legroom than other police sedans. A comfortable suspect
is a happy suspect, apparently.  None of this, however, answers my question of how my PPV
might fare in a chase through city streets in pursuit of the bad
guys.  For that, one might turn to performance results from the
 Michigan State Police , which annually compares police vehicles.
The standard engine on the PPV is a V-6 with 301 horsepower,
while the V-8 is a no-cost option which gets 355. Only the
turbocharged Taurus outguns it, with 365 hp.  Top speed for the Chevy is 154 miles-per-hour, which leads
the segment. The Michigan police’s tests put the PPV and turbo
Taurus at a dead heat from zero to 60 mph, at 5.9 seconds.  Smoking Tires  Ne’er-do-wells might take note that the non-turbo-charged
Taurus takes a leisurely 8.1 seconds to reach 60 and has a top
speed of only 131.  The 384 pound-feet of torque on my V-8 model indicates the
PPV should tear away from a dead stop like a shotgun blast.  To test the theory, I put my left foot on the brake and
right on the gas. The car begins shaking and the rear wheels
start spinning. Tire smoke erupts. (Cops never abuse their
equipment this way, I’m sure.)  I let off the brake and the PPV breaks free, thrusting
forward. Look out bad guys, I’m on my way.  My fantasy car chase takes place on lonely winding roads,
in pursuit of bank robbers, I decide.  The PPV moves along placidly until you put the pedal to the
floor. The six-speed automatic transmission takes a moment to
downshift, then I’m slapped back into my seat. The engine bay
erupts with noise, a sound that lawbreakers probably won’t
relish.  Nabs Robbers  My car has a performance mode which lessens the traction
control and a limited slip differential, which helps the
handling. The brakes are phenomenally good.  I’d capture my bank robbers for sure, except for one thing:
the steering is lousy.  It’s loose and hazy, leaving me rather spooked. In
precision driving, you need to aim the car with absolute
accuracy, and the PPV lacks that sense of touch.  Nonetheless, I catch the bad guys on a straight using the
grunt from the big engine. I’m ready to ram them, but they give
up.  Rest easy, citizens. The PPV is on the job.  The 2012 Chevrolet Caprice Police Patrol Vehicle at a Glance  Engine: 3.6-liter V-6 with 301 horsepower and 265 pound-
feet of torque, or 6.0-liter V-8 with 355 hp and 384 lb.-ft.  Transmission: Six-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 5.9 seconds (V-8).  Gas mileage per gallon: 15 city, 24 highway.  Price as tested: $32,305.  Best feature: Guts to get the bad guys.  Worst feature: Loose steering.  Target buyer: Your local police department.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Greg Evans  on  television  and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 