-- Chile Peso Reaches Two-Month High on Copper, Carry-Trade Demand
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-07-19T20:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/chile-peso-reaches-two-month-high-on-copper-carry-trade-demand.html
Chile’s peso strengthened to a two-
month high as the price of copper, the Latin American country’s
biggest export, rose on speculation  China  and the U.S. may act
to stoke economic growth.  The peso gained 0.5 percent to 485.35 per  U.S. dollar , the
strongest closing level since May 7. Copper for September
delivery climbed 1.6 percent.  The Chilean peso’s 3.2 percent advance this month is the
biggest in  Latin America  amid slowing inflation and stable
interest rates. Commodities reached the highest level in more
than two months today as copper climbed on expectations the U.S.
Federal Reserve may ease monetary policy to spur growth in the
world’s largest economy and that China, the biggest buyer of
copper, may lower bank reserve requirements.  “The market is focused on fundamentals,” said Alejandro Araya, a trader at Banco Santander Chile in Santiago. “Chile
offers an attractive yield compared with rates worldwide. With
copper now rebounding, this could go to 480 per dollar.”  The peso has returned 3.5 percent this month for investors
who buy the currency with funds borrowed abroad in dollars,
according to data tracked by Bloomberg. In a so-called carry
trade, investors borrow funds where  interest rates  are low and
buy assets in nations that offer higher yields.  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
had a $9.2 billion short peso position on July 17, the lowest
since May, according to central bank data.  Gasoline Prices  Breakeven inflation rose after state-owned oil refiner
Empresa Nacional del Petroleo yesterday reported the wholesale
price of gasoline would rise this week. Santiago’s premium
gasoline prices will rise 2.9 percent to 755.1 pesos ($1.55) a
liter beginning today. Lower-grade gasoline prices will increase
1.7 percent to 693.5 pesos a liter, Enap said.  Chile relies on imports for almost all its oil and gas
needs and hydrocarbons are its biggest import. The price of a
barrel of West Texas Intermediate crude oil has risen about 8.6
percent this month.  One-year breakeven inflation climbed 10 basis points, or
0.1 percentage point, to 1.93 percent.  Wheat futures rose to the highest in almost four years as
dry U.S. weather erodes prospects for the harvest in the biggest
exporter of the crop. Baked goods make up 3.2 percent of the
Chilean inflation basket.  “We’re very concerned about the drought in the U.S., which
has led to an almost vertical in wheat futures,” said Felipe
Alarcon, an economist at Banco de Credito e Inversiones in
Santiago. “That could generate an increase in bread prices in
August or September.”  The forwards market for unidades de fomento,  Chile ’s
inflation-linked accounting unit, shows traders are wagering on
1.43 percent price rises for 2012. That is “very unlikely,
especially if things don’t change,” Alarcon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  