-- Chinese Stocks Advance Most in 2 Weeks on Insurers, Autos
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-07-19T07:55:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/chinese-stocks-fluctuate-as-industrials-drop-petrochina-gains.html
Chinese stocks  rose, sending the
benchmark index up the most in two weeks, as investors
speculated the government will take more steps to bolster
economic growth.  China  Life Insurance Co. paced gains by insurers as Essence
Securities Co. said regulators plan to boost life and health
insurance industries.  SAIC Motor Corp. (600104)  rallied among automakers
after Nomura Holdings Inc. said banks’ new lending may reach 1
trillion yuan ($157 billion) this month. PetroChina Co. climbed
1 percent as oil traded near a seven-week high.  “The government may use measures other than  interest rates 
to boost the economy,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West China
Securities Co. in Shanghai. “There are some company earnings
that are quite bad.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 0.7 percent to
2,184.84 at the close, the biggest advance since July 6. About
seven stocks advanced for every two that dropped. The  CSI 300
Index (SHSZ300)  increased 0.4 percent to 2,424.32. The  Bloomberg China-US
55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, lost 0.2 percent to 84.73 in  New York  yesterday.  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao will probably decide to cut
banks’ reserve requirements and encourage corporate lending as
the cabinet meets to discuss efforts to revive economic growth,
the swap market indicates. The cost to lock in the three-month
 Shanghai interbank offered rate  for a year tumbled 28 basis
points this month to 3.16 percent, 63 basis points lower than
the benchmark money-market rate and near a two-year low,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.5 percent, headed for
the biggest advance since June 29, on speculation monetary
easing by central banks around the world will spur economic
growth.  Insurer Rules  About 6.66 billion shares changed hands in the Shanghai
Composite yesterday, 13 percent lower than the daily average
this year. Thirty-day  volatility  in the gauge was at 15.37.  Ping An increased 3.7 percent to 45.94  yuan , the biggest
jump since June 13. China Life jumped 5.6 percent to 20 yuan,
the highest close since May 2011. The development of life and
health insurance business will bring “substantial” premium
incomes to insurers,  Yang Jianhai, analyst at Essence
Securities, wrote in report today.  The China Securities Journal said yesterday regulators will
introduce new policies to loosen restrictions on insurers’
investment in debt securities, share rights and fixed-assets.  Bank Loans  SAIC Motor gained 2.6 percent to 12.82 yuan. Great Wall
Motor Co. increased 1.3 percent to 15.73 yuan.  Policy easing is picking up after  bank lending  reportedly
increased in July, Zhang Zhiwei, an economist at Nomura, wrote
in a note today. The  Shanghai  Securities News reported today
that China’s four big banks made about 50 billion yuan of new
loans in the first half of this month, twice that of the same
period in June. The newspaper cited unidentified people.  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 11 percent from this
year’s high recorded on March 2 as two interest-rate cuts failed
to assuage concerns that earnings growth will slow. The measure
is valued at 9.7 times estimated profit, compared with the 17.5
average since Bloomberg began compiling the  data  in 2006.  China has “relatively large” room to boost fiscal
spending to support economic growth, Zhang Peng, a Beijing-based
researcher with the Fiscal Research Institute at the Ministry of
Finance, said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Oil Boost  PetroChina Co. gained 0.8 percent to 9 yuan, the highest
close since July 6. Oil rose 0.7 percent to $90.53 a barrel in
New York after U.S. gasoline stockpiles unexpectedly dropped and
housing starts beat estimates.  China won’t see double-digit growth going forward as the
world’s second-largest economy expands at “high single
digits,”  Mark Mobius , who oversees about $50 billion as the
executive chairman of Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group, said in
a Bloomberg Radio interview yesterday.  Gross domestic product rose 7.6 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, the statistics bureau said on July
13, the sixth straight slowdown. Industrial production increased
at a more moderate pace in June while retail sales growth
decelerated, the data showed.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.7 percent to
$32.97. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.7 percent to
1,372.78 after U.S. housing starts increased at the fastest rate
in almost four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  