-- China Developers Face ‘Significant’ Liquidity Woes, KPMG Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-19T06:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/china-developers-face-significant-liquidity-woes-kpmg-says.html
Chinese developers face
“significant liquidity issues” and rising funding costs after
regulators curbed borrowing through trust companies and property
sales fell, according to KPMG LLP.  Although there are “indications” that restrictions on
real estate trusts may ease soon, the impact is unclear with
investor sentiment changing, according to a KPMG report entitled
Mainland  China  Trust Survey 2012. The report, emailed yesterday,
didn’t elaborate on what the indications are.  Growth in Chinese developers’ new funding slumped by almost
16 percentage points to 5.7 percent in the first half from a
year earlier, after the nation’s  home sales  dropped 6.5 percent
as the government maintained property curbs to stem speculation,
the National Bureau of Statistics said July 13. New funds
channeled through real estate trusts dropped more than 50
percent to 84.6 billion yuan ($13 billion) in the six months
ended June 30, according to  Use Trust , a Chinese consulting and
research firm for the country’s trust industry.  “Given the situation of certain real estate developers,
many of whom have sourced financing from trust companies,
there’s concern among both the trust companies and regulatory
authorities around these products,”  KPMG  said in the report.
Still, the risk is “very well managed and only an extreme
scenario could result in losses to trust companies.”  ‘Dramatic’ Growth  Yielding typically 12 percent to 15 percent in average
returns to investors, real estate trusts had “dramatic” growth
in the past two years before the banking regulator took measures
to curb the expansion, according to the KPMG report. KPMG had
assisted “major developers in distress” and advised on
refinancing and corporate restructuring options, according to
the report.  Trust companies have been “quite proactive” as they
sought to exit the investments, typically by negotiating with
the developer’s parent company on early repayments of the loans,
imposing forced asset sales, or seizing and selling the
underlying collateral to strategic investors, KPMG said.  China’s home sales rose 41 percent in June from May to
531.3 billion  yuan , the statistics bureau said last week, after
some local governments relaxed restrictions and the central bank
cut  interest rates  to bolster economic growth.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  