-- Chipotle Tumbles as Sales Trail Analysts Estimates
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-07-20T20:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/chipotle-tumbles-as-sales-trail-analysts-estimates.html
Chipotle Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG)  plunged
the most since its initial public offering more than six years
ago after reporting second-quarter sales that trailed analysts’
estimates.  Chipotle  tumbled  22 percent to $316.98 at the close in New
York, for the biggest drop since its IPO in January 2006.
Chipotle had advanced 20 percent this year through yesterday.  Slower U.S.  consumer spending  hurt the chain’s sales with
smaller gains as the year proceeded, Chief Financial Officer
Jack Hartung said yesterday on an analyst call, where he
discussed the Denver-based company’s results. Extreme weather
may boost food costs later this year and next, Hartung said.  “If consumer spending slows further, a further slowdown in
Chipotle” comparable sales is likely, Bryan Elliott, an analyst
with Raymond James & Associates in Atlanta, wrote in a note. The
stock’s “historical outsized” price-to-earnings premium
relative to peers could be reduced by “less outsized” sales
gains, wrote Elliott, who rates the shares underperform, the
equivalent of a sell.  Second-quarter revenue increased 21 percent to $690.9
million, the company said yesterday in a statement after the
market closed. That compared with an average analyst estimate of
$707.3 million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Asian Eatery  Net income rose 61 percent to $81.7 million, or $2.56 a
share, from $50.7 million, or $1.59, a year earlier, the company
said. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had estimated an average of
$2.30.  Chipotle, which last year opened its first Asian-themed
eatery, has sought to boost sales by touting sustainably raised
and locally sourced ingredients. Sales at Chipotle stores open
at least 13 months climbed 8 percent. Same-store sales are an
indicator of a retailer’s growth because they include only older
locations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  