-- Citigroup Sees Charge on Smith Barney Valuation
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-07-20T17:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/citigroup-sees-charge-on-smith-barney-valuation.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. lender, said it may incur a “significant” third-quarter
charge after  Morgan Stanley (MS)  submitted an unexpectedly low
valuation for the banks’ jointly owned brokerage.  Morgan Stanley, negotiating to buy an additional stake in
the brokerage from Citigroup, put the fair-market value of
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney at about 40 percent of what
Citigroup said the brokerage is worth, according to a regulatory
filing. Citigroup valued its 49 percent stake in the venture,
with more than 17,000 advisers and $1.74 trillion in client
assets, at about $11 billion, its filing yesterday shows.  The differences in estimates by the two firms, which are
negotiating terms for Citigroup’s sale to Morgan Stanley of a 14
percent stake in the venture, created the need for a third-party
appraiser, according to the filing. Citigroup may take a $3.3
billion writedown on the sale in the third quarter, Ed Najarian,
an analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group Inc.,
said in a note. That would exceed the $2.88 billion average
profit  estimate  of 13 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  “It certainly would be disappointing if the writedown
turns out to be that large,”  Gerard Cassidy , a  Royal Bank of
Canada  analyst based in  Portland ,  Maine , said in a phone
interview. “It’s like labor arbitration. Both sides know if
they go really wide with the arbitrator, that’s going to
influence the middle of the road.”  Citigroup Estimate  Citigroup still believes its estimate is “reasonable and
supportable,” the company said in the filing. The deal between
the two New York-based banks is set to be completed by Sept. 7.  “Each firm will now have to support its valuation to the
third-party appraiser, which will create an interesting
dynamic,” Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  told investors
on a conference call today.  Najarian assumed that the third-party appraiser would value
Morgan Stanley Smith Barney “close to the midpoint” of the two
firms’ estimates, according to the note. Citigroup would have to
revalue its stake to $7.7 billion from $11 billion under this
scenario, Najarian wrote.  Jeanmarie McFadden, a Morgan Stanley spokeswoman, and
Citigroup’s  Shannon Bell  declined to comment on Najarian’s
calculations.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, tagged
the unit for sale in 2009 after the bank took a $45 billion U.S.
bailout. Morgan Stanley acquired a controlling stake that year
and has a right to buy the entire brokerage.  Capital Rules  The bank doesn’t include the Smith Barney stake as capital
under Basel III rules, so a writedown won’t affect Citigroup’s
capital position under the new requirements, according to the
filing. The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision  is seeking to
make the financial system safer by requiring banks to hold a
bigger cushion against losses.  A writedown of about $3.2 billion would be a “semi-non-
event” for Citigroup because the sale will help the firm’s
requirements under Basel rules, Charles Peabody, an analyst with
Portales Partners LLC, wrote in a note to clients today. The
bank is exiting a “business with poor returns,” said Peabody,
whose rating on Citigroup shares is the equivalent of sell.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  