-- Citigroup Said to Plan 350 Job Cuts in Securities Division
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-07-19T14:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/citigroup-said-to-plan-350-job-cuts-in-investment-bank-trading.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
 U.S. bank , plans to cut about 350 additional jobs this year from
the securities division, which includes  investment banking  and
trading, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The reduction equals about 2 percent of the unit’s  staff ,
according to the person, who asked for anonymity because the
changes haven’t been publicly announced. The bank previously
disclosed plans to eliminate 1,200 jobs from the division.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit  is
grappling with a revenue slump in trading and investment banking
as the European sovereign-debt crisis roils markets and
customers take fewer risks. New regulations are also crimping
profit, with first-half net income at the division down more
than 40 percent from two years earlier.  “We continue to make targeted headcount reductions in
certain businesses as part of our ongoing efforts to control
expenses in light of current market conditions,” said Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for the New York-based company, in
an e-mailed statement.  Citigroup announced plans in January to cut 1,200 people to
save $600 million this year at the securities and banking
division. Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  warned that the
bank would tighten again if revenue did not rebound in 2012,
citing “disappointing” results in equities trading and
investment banking.  Costs Versus Revenue  “We are not oblivious to the fact that our cost structure
cannot be justified by our  current revenue ,” Gerspach said.
“While much of the current difficulty reflects market
conditions, we equally have some management and execution
challenges.”  Jamie Forese is head of the securities and banking
division. He oversees Citigroup’s trading boss, Francisco “Paco” Ybarra, and the heads of investment banking, Raymond J. McGuire and Tyler Dickson.  Revenue from investment banking, which includes advising on
mergers and acquisitions and underwriting stock and bond sales,
fell 11 percent to $1.72 billion for the first six months of
2012 from a year earlier. Equities trading, run from  London  by
Derek Bandeen, slid 35 percent to $1.22 billion. Fixed-income
trading dropped 3 percent to $6.61 billion before accounting
adjustments.  The job cuts were reported earlier today by the Wall Street
Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  