-- Closer Euro-Area Unity Is Best Result for Finland, Katainen Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-07-19T12:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/closer-euro-area-unity-is-best-result-for-finland-katainen-says.html
Finland will work for a stronger
euro as closer unity in the 17-nation bloc will “by far” be
the best outcome for the Nordic nation, Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen  said.  The agreement to bail out Spanish banks helps prevent
“chaos” in the area, Katainen said at the start of a debate at
the Helsinki-based parliament on ratifying the measure.  “Bailouts have prevented the uncontrollable collapse of
the European economy,” he said. “They haven’t removed the risk
to future developments posed by weaker countries.”  Finland may vote tomorrow on approving the 100 billion-euro
($123 billion) package for Spanish banks. It two days ago
reached an agreement with  Spain  to get collateral for its
guarantees, meeting the Nordic country’s condition for
participating in the rescue. The country is one of four AAA
rated nations left in the euro area and was also the only euro
member to require extra security for providing aid to  Greece .  “It’s easy to be pessimistic on  Europe  and the euro,”
Katainen said. “But I don’t understand those who want the euro
area to break apart or for  Finland  to leave.”  Finland got 769.9 million euros in collateral to cover 40
percent of the amount it will guarantee. Finland will be paid in
cash by Spain’s deposit guarantee fund, because negative pledge
clauses on bonds mean the state can’t directly be a party to the
agreement. The collateral will be invested in the debt of the
five highest-rated euro countries, according to a statement.  The parliament will probably approve the package, which
includes the collateral deal as well as guarantees to the
European Financial Stability Facility for the bailout, Finance
Minister Jutta Urpilainen said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  