-- Cogeco Investors Fret U.S. Deal After Portugal: Corporate Canada
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-19T20:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/cogeco-investors-fret-u-s-deal-after-portugal-corporate-canada.html
Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA)  shareholders are
concerned its $1.36 billion purchase of U.S. cable operator
Atlantic Broadband won’t be any more successful than its last
international foray in  Portugal .  The Montreal-based cable company fell for a second day on
the Toronto Stock Exchange after the deal was announced
yesterday morning. The decline yesterday was the biggest since
June 2, 2006, the day it announced the purchase of Cabovisao-
Televisao Por Cabo SA in Portgual. After six years of struggling
to turn a consistent profit in  Europe , Cogeco sold Cabovisao in
February.  Chief Executive Officer Louis Audet now says buying Quincy,
Massachusetts-based Atlantic Broadband, which operates cable
systems in Pennsylvania, Florida,  Maryland ,  Delaware  and  South
Carolina (BKSC) , will give it an entry into the recovering U.S. economy
where there is still scope for cable consolidation.  “You couldn’t be any closer to home than that,” Audet
said yesterday on a conference call.  Canada ’s fourth-biggest cable operator, which lost 26
percent this year before today, fell 4 percent to close at
C$36.40, cutting its market value to C$1.78 billion ($1.77
billion).  “Negative sentiment regarding the previous acquisition of
Cabovisao in Portugal remains fresh in investors’ minds,” said
 Maher Yaghi , an analyst at Desjardins Securities in  Montreal .  Cogeco sold Cabovisao to Altice, a Luxembourg-based owner
of communications companies, for 45 million euros ($55 million)
after paying 465 million euros for it in 2006. The cash purchase
of Atlantic Broadband is the biggest for Cogeco, more than
double the size of its acquisition of Cabovisao.  “We would have preferred a smaller cable tuck-in or data
center acquisition within Canada where cost synergies could be
achieved,” Yaghi said.  Charter Origins  Atlantic Broadband was formed in 2003 after it purchased
cable systems from St. Louis-based  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) 
It currently ranks as the 14th-largest U.S. cable operator,
according to the company’s  website .  Atlantic Broadband serves about 252,000 basic video
customers, and provides cable, phone and Internet to rural
communities. That suits Cogeco’s experience of offering service
in less-populated areas of Quebec and Ontario, Audet said.
Cogeco has about 869,000 cable television customers.  “There is room as you can see for further U.S. growth, in
contrast to Canada,” he said.  The purchase helps reduce Cogeco’s dependence on its
market, where it competes with larger cable operators  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B) ,  BCE Inc. (BCE) ,  Telus Corp. (T)  and  Shaw
Communications Inc. (SJR/B)  Toronto-based Rogers is the largest
shareholder of Cogeco, with a 32 percent stake. Rogers spokesmen
didn’t immediately return requests for comments on the deal.  Deal Risks  RBC Capital Markets analyst Drew McReynolds said the deal
carries risks as it’s Cogeco’s first attempt to enter the tough
U.S. market and may distract it from competitors in Canada. He
rates Cogeco the equivalent of a buy. Audet described the deal
as “an attractive entry point into the  United States (X) ,” which
positions Cogeco to make further “tuck-in” acquisitions, he
said.  Cogeco’s debt rating may be cut to junk on the Atlantic
Broadband deal,  Fitch Ratings  said, putting it on “watch
negative.” A downgrade may be limited to one level, Fitch said.  Cogeco was put under review with “negative implications”
by DBRS Ltd., which cited concerns about the company’s ability
to compete in a new markets with “characteristics that differ
significantly” from its own regions. As part of the deal,
Cogeco will take on an additional C$550 million in debt and
assume C$660 million of debt at Atlantic, Toronto-based DBRS
said in a statement yesterday.  Yields Rise  Cogeco bonds fell as their yields to government benchmarks
rose by as much as 50 basis points, RBC Capital Markets analysts
wrote in a note to clients today. The 4.925 percent bonds due in
February 2022 are bid at 300 basis points compared with 251
basis points yesterday, Bloomberg composite price show.  “The spread widening was a fair reaction reflecting the
higher risk profile: higher projected leverage, the surprise
nature of the acquisition, and execution risk associated with
Atlantic Broadband or further U.S. initiatives,” RBC analysts
led by Andrew Calder wrote.  Cable consolidation allows companies to avoid paying
duplicate programming fees while combining their sales forces
and paring infrastructure costs. Smaller operators are under
pressure to merge because those fees are climbing about 7
percent to 10 percent a year, eating into their profit margins.  Bloomberg reported in May that Atlantic was seeking a sale
at a price of about $1.4 billion.  Cable Deals  The Cogeco transaction follows several strategic cable
acquisitions, including  Time Warner (TWX)  Cable Inc.’s $3 billion
takeover of Insight Communications Co. in February and
WideOpenWest LLC’s deal completed yesterday to buy Knology for
about $1.5 billion including debt.  Also yesterday, BC Partners Ltd. and Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board agreed to buy Suddenlink Communications, the
seventh-largest U.S. cable operator, for $1.99 billion from
investors including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  BC Partners and
Canada Pension are making the purchase together with a
management team led by Suddenlink Chief Executive Officer Jerry Kent. Including debt, the deal has an enterprise value of $6.6
billion.  Cogeco is paying 8.3 times Atlantic Broadband’s estimated
annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, the company said in the statement. Time Warner
Cable paid 8.6 times Ebitda, while WOW paid 7.7 times, according
to Bloomberg Industries.  Cogeco is paying about $5,400 per subscriber. That compares
with $4,418 in the Time Warner deal, and $5,486 in the WOW
transaction, the Bloomberg Industries data show.  “While valuation is in line with comparable transactions,
Cogeco Cable is paying a significant premium over its trading
multiple for the assets,” said Desjardins’ Yaghi, who rates
Cogeco a hold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  