-- Cohen Bullish on Munis as Local Stress Persists: Tom Keene
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W h i t e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-07-19T18:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/cohen-bullish-on-munis-as-local-stress-persists-tom-keene.html
Yields on benchmark municipal debt
maturing in 10 years touched  record lows  this week, signaling
that the bonds remain a strong asset, according to  Natalie Cohen , head of municipal research at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   “We have 90,000 governments, and there are four or five
examples of trouble,” said Cohen during a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Sara Eisen. Cohen
called 2012 “the year of local difficulty.”  On July 10, the City Council of San Bernardino,  California ,
voted to file for  bankruptcy protection , joining Stockton and
Mammoth Lakes. Jefferson County in  Alabama  has also filed for
bankruptcy and Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, is in state
receivership. In April, Detroit barely escaped that fate in the
face of a deficit and $12 billion of long-term debt.  Still, municipal issuers have taken advantage of yields
close to the lowest since the 1960s by refinancing debt at lower
rates. About 64 percent of this year’s municipal-bond sales has
been so-called refundings, the most since 1993, according to
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp.  Top-grade munis due in 10 years yielded 1.73 percent at
11:13 am in  New York , the least on record since a Bloomberg
Valuation  index  began in January 2009. Benchmark 10-year
Treasury yields touched  1.49 percent .  The ratio of muni yields to federal  interest rates , a
measure of relative value, has remained above  100 percent  since
May 16, according to data collected by Bloomberg.  Local governments saw a decrease in property-tax
collections for the first three months of 2012 following two
growth quarters, according to a report from the Nelson A.
 Rockefeller Institute  of Government in  Albany , New York.  The decline could signify a “serious fiscal crunch,”
according to Lucy Dadayan, a senior policy analyst at the
institute who co-wrote the report.  Cohen said that for local governments, “bankruptcy doesn’t
always mean a default.” When municipalities are in trouble, she
said, “you can’t take a city apart and sell off the assets like
you can with a corporation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gillian White in New York at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  