-- Colon Cancer Genomic Mapping May Point Toward Therapies
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/colon-cancer-genomic-mapping-may-point-toward-therapies.html
The largest study of colon cancer
tumors to date found new mutations that may cause malignancy in
various organs, bolstering research that links the disease more
to specific genetic changes than its location in the body.  Researchers sequenced the genomes of 276 tumors, then
compared the results with normal cells from the same patients.
They found some mutations previously linked to other types of
cancer, and new variants that may be targeted by therapies
currently in development, said Raju Kucherlapati, a professor at
 Harvard Medical School  and an author of the study.  “It turns out there were a number of novel and very
interesting things that tell us about the biology of the tumors,
and also point to directions in which therapies can go,”
Kucherlapati said in a telephone interview. “Some of the same
genes are modified or mutated in many different cancers.”  The research published yesterday by the journal  Nature  is
among recent studies showing how medicines designed to target
gene mutations in one cancer may be applied to other
malignancies with the same abnormality. These results have
spurred drugmakers such as  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) 
and  Roche Holding AG (ROG) , the world’s biggest maker of cancer
medicines, to focus their  cancer research  on so-called targeted
therapies.  About 5 percent of patients in the study had tumors with
mutations to the ERBB2 gene, which also has been found in breast
and gastric cancers. Herceptin, a $6 billion  breast cancer  drug
from Basel, Switzerland-based Roche, targets that mutation,
Kucherlapati said. Herceptin was one of the first cancer
medicines aimed at patients whose tumors have this genetic
abnormality.  Gene Target  Another potential target for drugmakers is a mutation that
caused 22 percent of patients in the study to have high levels
or over-expression of the insulin-like growth factor-2 gene.
Companies currently working on inhibitors for this gene, include
London-based AstraZeneca’s Medimmune unit, which is testing its
therapy, MEDI 573, in the first of three trials typically
required for regulatory approval.  Other drugmakers are expanding testing of their cancer
therapies that focus on specific gene variants. In May, New
York-based Pfizer found that Xalkori, its drug that targets
adult  lung cancer  caused by a gene defect, also eradicates the
malignancy in some children with rare tumors of the nerves,
blood and soft tissue. Bristol-Myers, based in  New York , also
announced in May it would expand testing of its leukemia drug
Sprycel in patients with lung cancer because it appeared to help
one patient with a particular mutation.  The data released yesterday are part of a broader project
by the  National Institutes of Health  called the Cancer Genome
Atlas, which is analyzing tumors and blood samples from 20 types
of cancer.  One of the project’s earlier studies of ovarian cancer
patients with a genetic mutation best known for its ties to
breast cancer have found they have a higher survival rate than
those without the mutation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  