-- Colombia Targets Borders to Drive Cocaine Output to Decades-Low
-- B y   H e a t h e r   W a l s h
-- 2012-07-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/colombia-targets-borders-to-drive-cocaine-output-to-decades-low.html
Colombia , the largest supplier of
cocaine to the U.S., is increasing anti-drug operations in
coordination with its South American neighbors as its production
of the narcotic falls to a two-decade low, the nation’s top
anti-drug official said.  Colombia is developing plans for near-simultaneous strikes
with neighbors including Peru and  Ecuador  on drug crops and
hidden laboratories in border areas, General Luis Alberto Perez
Alvaran said yesterday in an interview in Bogota.  “It affects traffickers in both countries,” he said. “We
have border areas with illicit crops on both sides.”  Colombia has intensified attacks against drug-funded
guerrilla groups that process and export the cocaine --including
in disposable submersibles. The government wants to push
production of the narcotic down by 25 tons to about 320 tons
this year while shrinking the area where rebels and crime
organizations grow coca leaves, the main ingredient in cocaine.  The government already is working with neighboring
countries to capture traffickers, track the ingredients used to
process cocaine and find the location of processing
laboratories, Perez Alvaran said from his headquarters near an
airfield. Concern about slowing global economies hasn’t affected
demand for the drug in a market where the dollar remains the
favored currency by traffickers, Perez Alvaran said.  Colombia is targeting areas near its borders that are among
the last strongholds for cocaine production because thick jungle
in many areas helps provide camouflage for labs and makes access
by the military difficult. Because the government doesn’t spray
pesticides near its borders, coca plants have to be manually
pulled out by the root in border areas often dotted with
landmines, Perez Alvaran said.  Reducing Plantings  Colombia wants to cut the total area planted with coca to
less than 50,000 hectares (124,000 acres) this year from as much
as 64,000 hectares last year and 165,000 hectares in 2000. The
goal is less than 30,000 hectares in 2014, he said.  Across Colombia, the nation’s police will begin increasing
their presence in areas where coca has been eradicated to
prevent the drug from being replanted, he said. Planted areas
have become smaller, making it tougher to locate and eradicate
them, especially in areas defended by guerrillas and criminal
groups.  “It’s really difficult to move our troops to those
sites,” Perez Alvaran said.  About 90 percent of cocaine in the U.S. originated in
Colombia, according to a June 2011  United Nations ’ report.
Declines in the nation’s output reduced global cocaine
production even as supplies grew from Peru and  Bolivia . The
three nations produced 100 percent of global supplies of coca
leaf for a global cocaine market worth about $85 billion in
2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Walsh in Bogota at 
 hlwalsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  