-- Commodities Advance, Head for Longest Rally Since Late February
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-19T15:17:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/commodities-advance-head-for-longest-rally-since-late-february.html
Commodities headed for the longest
rally since February as the worst U.S. drought in more than half
a century threatened crops and on speculation that monetary
easing by central banks will boost demand for raw materials.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
rose 1.6 percent to 649.93 at 11:10 a.m. in New York, after
reaching 650.91, the highest since May 10. The gauge is up for
the seventh session, the longest advance since Feb. 24. Soybeans
jumped to a record, and wheat climbed to the highest in almost
four years. Coffee, soybeans and cocoa led the rally.  Global equities rallied on speculation that governments
will act to spur economic growth.  Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on July 17 that policy makers are studying
options for further easing. The  European Central Bank  reduced
 interest rates  to a record low on July 5, and the  Bank of
England  announced the resumption of bond purchases on the same
day.  “The Bank of England, European Central Bank and probably
the Federal Reserve are all going to engage in additional
accommodation,”  William O’Neill , a partner at Logic Advisors in
Upper Saddle River, New Jersey, said in a telephone interview.
“That is a plus for commodities. We have an across- the-board
better tone to the commodity board here, and of course there’s
the big fear surrounding the grain markets.”  The GSCI index is up 0.8 percent this year. The  MSCI All-
Country World Index (MXWD)  rose 5.2 percent, and Treasuries returned
2.7 percent, a Bank of America Corp. index showed. Grains helped
lead the rally today as about 55 percent of the contiguous U.S.
was in moderate to extreme drought at the end of June, the
highest percentage since 1956, National Climatic Data Center
figures show.  Corn Surges  Soybean futures for November delivery rose 0.9 percent to
$16.3525 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, after reaching
a record $16.7375. Corn futures surged as high as $7.99, just
below the record $7.9925 set in 2008, while wheat jumped to the
highest in almost four years.  “The biggest thing that’s giving us the lift here right
now is the grain complex,” Sterling Smith, a commodity analyst
at Citigroup Inc.’s institutional client group in  Chicago , said
in a telephone interview. “That is due to the U.S. drought. As
long as the drought continues to slog on, we’re going to see
prices continue to climb.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Campbell in Chicago at 
 ecampbell14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  