-- Copper Rises for Second Day on Speculation About Stimulus Steps
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-07-19T12:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/copper-rises-for-second-day-on-speculation-about-stimulus-steps.html
Copper rose for a second day in New
York amid speculation China and the U.S., the world’s two
largest users of the metal, may move to stoke their economies.  The  Federal Reserve  is ready to take steps to spur growth
“as appropriate,” Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday in a
second day of testimony before lawmakers. China’s swaps market
indicated Premier  Wen Jiabao  will probably decide to lower
banks’ reserve requirements and encourage corporate lending.  “There remain expectations of wider QE in the markets,”
 David Wilson , director of metals research at Citigroup Inc. in
London, said by phone today, referring to so-called quantitative
easing. “This is quite surprising, given Bernanke was less than
forthcoming over this possibility in his testimony over the past
two days.”  Copper for September delivery climbed 1.6 percent to $3.53
a pound by 8:45 a.m. on the Comex in New York. The London Metal
Exchange’s three-month contract rose 2 percent to $7,787.75 a
metric ton.  Prices advanced on “short-covering,” Andrew Silver, a
trader at Natixis Commodity Markets Ltd. in  London , said by e-
mail today, referring to purchases made to close out bets on
falling prices.  The increased appetite for risk may have been encouraged by
stronger equity markets and improved U.S. housing figures may be
helping sentiment,  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) 
said in a report. The Copper Development Association says
construction generates about 40 percent of demand for the metal,
used in pipes and wiring.  U.S. housing starts neared a four-year high in June and
exceeded the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of
economists, government figures showed yesterday. European shares
gained today and U.S. equity benchmarks rose at the start of
trading in New York.  “It looks as though the markets shook off the lack of
further talk about QE well,”  William Adams , an analyst at
Basemetals.com in London, said by e-mail yesterday. “With the
market ever hopeful that China will boost infrastructure
spending, it may be there is room for some light optimism.”  Aluminum, zinc, tin, nickel and lead rose in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  