-- Credit Swaps Hold at Two-Week Low Amid Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-07-19T22:04:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/credit-swaps-in-u-s-fall-for-third-day-on-stimulus-speculation.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk held at about a two-week low after data showed initial
jobless claims rose more than forecast, stoking speculation that
the  Federal Reserve  will take new stimulus measures.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
0.2 basis point to a mid-price of 108.1 basis points, prices
compiled by Bloomberg show. Contracts tied to Morgan Stanley
jumped the most in seven months after the bank reported a 50
percent drop in earnings, while those on  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) 
fell to a two-month low after a 42 percent profit gain.  Investors are seeking more growth initiatives from the
central bank as concern builds that the economic recovery will
stumble, pressuring companies’ balance sheets and their ability
to repay borrowings. Data from the Labor Department today showed
that applications for  unemployment benefits  rose to 386,000 last
week from 350,000 the previous period.  “The market expects the Fed to do something,” Sharon Stark, chief market strategist at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in
Birmingham,  Alabama , said in a telephone interview. “It’s tough
for the economy to gain any momentum if you’re not creating jobs
and there are more people filing for unemployment.”  Economists had called for 365,000 initial claims in the
week ended July 14, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey. The volatility was tied to shifts in the
timing of automobile plants’ seasonal layoffs, according to a
Labor Department spokesman.  Congressional Testimony  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  completed his second day of
testimony to Congress yesterday in his semi-annual report on the
economy and monetary policy. Bernanke said the central bank is
prepared to use easing tools, including asset purchases, to
combat potential stalled progress in reducing unemployment.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
index showed manufacturing in the region contracted for the
third consecutive month. Sales of existing homes dropped 5.4
percent in June to a 4.37 million annual rate, a separate report
from the National Association of Realtors showed today in
 Washington .  Moody’s Investors Service Liquidity-Stress Index for
speculative-grade companies fell to 3.4 percent in the second
week of July from 3.6 percent in June, analysts for the ratings
company led by Tom Marshella said in a research note dated July
18. The index, which declines when liquidity positions improve,
reached a record low 3.3 percent in May.  Corporate Liquidity  Liquidity conditions for high-yield companies were healthy
even as the number of credit-rating downgrades outpaced
upgrades, according to the report.  Southwest, the biggest low-fare carrier, reported second-
quarter net income of $228 million, or 30 cents a share, up from
$161 million, or 21 cents, in the year-earlier period.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of Southwest
dropped 5.4 basis points to a mid-price of 154.6 basis points,
the lowest since May 10, Bloomberg prices show.  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, said
second-quarter earnings dropped to $591 million, or 29 cents a
share. Excluding accounting adjustments tied to the New York-
based bank’s own credit spreads, profit was 16 cents a share,
missing the 29-cent average estimate of 20 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Credit swaps tied to Morgan Stanley climbed 28 basis points
to 359 basis points, according to data provider CMA. That’s the
biggest jump since the contracts climbed 34 basis points Dec. 8.  The contracts typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  