-- Crop Insurers Could Face First Loss Since 2002 on Drought
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-19T21:37:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/crop-insurers-could-face-first-loss-since-2002-on-drought.html
Crop insurers may face their first
underwriting loss since 2002 as the worst Midwest  drought  in
more than two decades threatens the U.S. harvest, according to
 Iowa State University ’s Bruce Babcock.  “The only way they would make a profit is if they saw this
disaster coming, because of the low water tables and the low
soil-moisture levels at the beginning of the season, and they
opted to minimize their exposure in the Corn Belt,” Babcock, an
economics professor at the Ames, Iowa-based university, said
today. “But the companies have made money year after year after
year maximizing their exposure to risk in the Corn Belt because
it’s been such a good run of years.”  Hot, dry weather across much of the Midwest has damaged
crops, led to a rally in corn and soybean futures, and boosted
insurance loss estimates. The U.S. subsidizes farmers’ premiums
for so-called multiperil coverage, which protects against a loss
of revenue or production as a result of drought, hail, wind,
frost or other natural causes. Prices for the policies are set
by an agency within the Department of Agriculture.  Crop insurers including  Ace Ltd. (ACE) ,  QBE Insurance Group Ltd. (QBE) 
and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  will probably face higher costs this year
as farmers make claims,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report
yesterday. Private insurers sell and administer multiperil crop
insurance in the U.S. In return, the federal government
backstops the firms with payments and reinsurance.  Underwriting Losses  Taxpayers may ultimately be responsible for 50 percent to
80 percent of underwriting losses, given the severity of this
year’s drought, Babcock said during a media event hosted by the
Washington-based Environmental Working Group, which tracks
agriculture subsidies.  “Wells Fargo has a geographically diverse crop-insurance
business,” Gabriel Boehmer, a spokesman for the San Francisco-
based bank, said in an e-mail. “We’re prepared for what we
expect to be another extreme claims season, but it’s premature
to speculate on the effects the drought will have on
underwriting.” Wells Fargo has reinsurance to help it share
claims costs and protect against risk it retains, he said.  Stephen Wasdick, a spokesman for Ace, and QBE’s Paula
Symons had no comment.  “It is too early to determine the extent of the losses for
the 2012 crop year, let alone determine if there will be an
underwriting loss or gain for the industry,” Laurie Langstraat,
a spokeswoman for National Crop Insurance Services, an industry
group, said in an e-mail. “This year’s drought and last year’s
weather problems underscore the need for an efficient private
sector-delivered crop-insurance program.”  Rising Temperatures  Temperatures will approach 100 degrees Fahrenheit (38
degrees Celsius) from  Texas  to  South Dakota  through July 28,
intensifying crop stress as corn finishes reproducing and
soybeans begin to set pods and fill them with seeds, World
Weather Inc. said in a report.  Soybean futures for November delivery rose 2 percent to
close at $16.5225 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade after
reaching a record $16.7375. Corn futures for December delivery
fell 0.7 percent to $7.785 a bushel. Earlier, the price reached
$7.99. The all-time high on June 27, 2008, was $7.9925.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  