-- Crop Traders Extend Bullish Streak on U.S. Drought: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n   a n d   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-07-20T17:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/crop-traders-extend-bullish-streak-on-u-s-drought-commodities.html
Corn and soybean traders are bullish
for a 13th consecutive week on mounting concern that yields will
keep dropping amid the worst U.S. drought in a half century.  Twenty analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect soybeans to
climb next week, after reaching a record yesterday. A further
five were bearish and three neutral. Nineteen predicted gains in
corn, five saw a decline and three anticipated little change.
 Hedge funds  are holding the biggest bet on rising soybeans since
the beginning of May and the largest wager on corn since April,
U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission data show.  The drought may persist in the Midwest for the rest of the
growing season, the U.S. government said this week. Above-
average temperatures and below-normal rainfall will continue
through next week, according to meteorologist Telvent DTN. The
56 percent jump in corn and 28 percent gain in soybeans since
mid-June may spur another bout of global food-price inflation,
after surges in 2008 and 2011 that sparked civil unrest in
 developing countries , Barclays Plc said in a report July 18.  “There’s not much reason for us to see a slowdown in the
price rally,” said Erin FitzPatrick, an analyst at Rabobank
International in  London , who predicted in April that soybeans
would reach a record. “The size of the 2012-13 harvest is
shrinking every day that we don’t get rain or a cooling off in
the U.S. It’s fundamentally still bullish, even though we’re at
these record prices.”  Prices Rally  Soybeans advanced 39 percent to $16.7775 a bushel on the
Chicago Board of Trade this year and reached a record $16.91
today. Corn rose 22 percent to $7.88 a bushel, touching $7.99
yesterday, less than 0.1 percent below its all-time high. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities rose 0.6 percent
since the start of January and the MSCI All-Country World  Index (MXWD) 
of equities gained 3.9 percent. Treasuries returned 2.6 percent,
a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  More than half of the contiguous U.S. states were in
moderate to extreme drought at the end of June, the highest
percentage since December 1956, according to the National
Climatic Data Center. Thirty-one percent of the U.S. corn crop
was in good or excellent condition as of July 15, the least for
the date since 1988, according to the  U.S. Department of
Agriculture . Thirty-four percent of soybean fields received the
top ratings, also the worst since 1988.  Lower Harvest  The USDA cut its forecast for this year’s U.S. corn harvest
by 12 percent to 12.97 billion bushels on July 11, down from a
June estimate of 14.79 billion bushels. The agency reduced its
soybean projection by 4.8 percent to 3.05 billion bushels.
Morgan Stanley predicted yesterday corn output at 11.89 billion
bushels and soybean production at 2.99 billion bushels.  China  may import a record 61 million metric tons of
soybeans and 5 million tons of corn in the 2012-13 season, the
USDA said July 11. The Asian nation is the world’s biggest
soybean consumer and second-largest user of corn after the U.S.
While China’s growth will slow to 8 percent this year from 9.2
percent in 2011, that’s still more than double the anticipated
expansion globally, the International Monetary Fund estimates.  The surge in crops is raising costs for livestock farmers
who use them as feed. That may spur them to slaughter more
animals, lowering U.S. retail prices for meat that are at or
near a record. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. cut its outlook for
livestock prices on July 16 and forecasts soybeans at $16.25 in
three months and corn at $6.90.  Costs Increase  U.S. hog producers may lose about $20 per animal over the
next three quarters, according to a July 9 report by Chris Hurt,
an agricultural economist at  Purdue University  in  West
Lafayette ,  Indiana . Pig farmers in the U.K. are losing about 18
pounds ($28) a head, according to the Agriculture and
Horticulture Development Board’s pork unit.  Costlier crops may curb demand from biofuel producers. U.S.
ethanol output fell 2.3 percent in the week ended July 13 to the
lowest level since the Energy Department began tracking weekly
data in 2010. Producers are losing about 26 cents on each gallon
of ethanol made based on fuel and corn contracts for September,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. More U.S. corn went to ethanol
than livestock feed in 2010-11 for the first time ever.  Limited Production  Farmers will buy more fertilizer next year as they try to
recoup crops lost this year, according to Karen Ubelhart, an
analyst for Bloomberg Industries. Growing demand for food and
limited production growth will support nutrient prices, Yara
International ASA, the largest publicly traded nitrogen-
fertilizer maker, said July 18. The Oslo-based company’s shares
jumped 25 percent since mid-June and will gain 11 percent in 12
months, according to the average of 27 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  In other commodities, seven of 12 traders and analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg expect raw sugar to advance next week and
four were bearish. The commodity gained 2.4 percent this year to
23.87 cents a pound on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York .  Eleven people surveyed said copper will gain next week and
six predicted a drop, while nine were neutral. The metal for
delivery in three months, the London Metal Exchange’s benchmark
contract, fell 0.7 percent to $7,545 a ton this year.  Ten of 26 traders and analysts surveyed said gold would
increase next week and the same amount predicted little change.
Futures on the Comex exchange in New York added 1 percent
since the start of January to $1,583 an ounce, after 11 years
of gains. Holdings in bullion-backed exchange-traded products
are about 0.4 percent below the record 2,413.6 tons reached July
5, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Stimulus Measures  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  repeated in
congressional testimony July 18 that the central bank is ready
to take further action to boost the recovery if necessary. China
cut rates in June and July, the  European Central Bank  reduced
borrowing costs to a record low this month and the  Bank of
England  restarted bond purchases two months after halting its
expansion of stimulus.  “The most important thing is that we’re seeing signs that
China is starting to stimulate much more aggressively,” said
 Dan Smith , a commodities analyst at Standard Chartered Plc in
London. “There have already been a lot of coordinated rate
cuts. Once you get this stimulus coming though often that means
you’re close to the bottom of the cycle for commodities.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  