-- Damascus Bombing Shreds Veneer of Normality in Syrian Capital
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-19T20:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/damascus-bombing-shreds-veneer-of-normality-in-syrian-capital.html
Damascus resident Mohammed was kept
awake by explosions and exchanges of gunfire between soldiers
and rebels on the first night after a deadly bomb attack on top
officials shattered the capital’s relative tranquility.  “There were a lot of fireworks,” he said, less than a day
after an explosion killed three of  Syria ’s top military leaders
and dealt President Bashar al-Assad’s government its biggest
blow since the uprising began in March last year. Mohammed, who
declined to give his surname because of possible reprisals, said
a drive around the city yesterday revealed plumes of smoke, long
lines at food stores and an army bus riddled with bullets.
“These are sights we’re not used to seeing,” he said.  The July 18 bomb at a meeting of security officials left
Assad’s brother-in-law, Assef Shawkat, and Defense Minister
Dawoud Rajhah among the dead. It has added to a sense among
Damascenes that the city is no longer exempt from the worst of
the violence, in a conflict that has seen entire neighborhoods
of cities such as Homs and Hama leveled.  For the past five days, government troops have clashed in
the capital with lightly armed fighters of the Free Syrian Army.
Hours after the bombing, security forces used helicopters and
heavy artillery to pound areas in Damascus, in what the
opposition described as retaliation.  The Local Coordination Committees, an anti-Assad group,
said at least 130 people were killed when a funeral procession
was shelled in the Sayyeda Zainab district on the outskirts of
the capital late on July 18.  Hoarding Food  As news of the explosion came out, Mohammed said the
streets of Damascus emptied as people hurried home fearing
retaliatory attacks. On the eve of the holy fasting month of
Ramadan, they’re usually bustling with shoppers stocking up on
delicacies, such as nuts and sweets, for fast-breaking evening
meals often shared with friends and relatives.  This year, Syrians are stocking up on food for a different
reason, because they are “nervous and worried about the
future,” said Julie, a pharmacist.  Many Syrians are hoarding staples such as rice, sugar and
pasta, and foods that do not require much cooking because there
is a cooking-gas shortage, she said in a phone interview from
her house on the edge of the city. Some Damascenes are preparing
shelters in storage depots, sports clubs or any underground
structure they can find, she said.  “We don’t know where we’re headed,” said another resident
of the capital, a woman who declined to be named for fear of her
safety. She said by phone yesterday that she was determined to
lead as close to a normal life as possible, and was on her way
to the hairdresser and then to the supermarket.  ‘Heavier Fighting’  Only about one or two in every 10 stores were open
yesterday, said Mohammed. He said he passed by a station where
shared taxis set off for  Beirut , and saw Damascenes arguing over
the few seats available.  The violence in Damascus is set to intensify, said Torbjorn
Soltvedt, senior analyst at U.K.-based risk analysis company
Maplecroft.  “A swift military victory for the rebels is unlikely,” he
said in an e-mail. “The regime will almost certainly
concentrate its forces in the capital and heavier fighting is
likely to ensue.”  Stepped-up security measures, such as checkpoints outside
some Damascus neighborhoods to catch members of the Free Syrian
Army, are aimed at “preventing terror acts and protecting the
Syrian people,” the Foreign Ministry said in a statement
carried by the state news agency Sana yesterday.  Veneer of Normality  Until recently life in Damascus had a veneer of normality,
with restaurants crowded at weekends, families taking leisurely
walks in the evenings, and traffic jams at rush hour.  The government has sought to reinforce that sense of
business as usual. Another report on Sana yesterday said that
the Directorate General of Antiquities and Museums, together
with the Aga Khan Network for Cultural Services, was launching a
project to restore the historic city-center of Damascus.  It’s becoming harder to reassure people in the capital who
can see and hear the evidence of encroaching war.  “People in Damascus cannot believe this is actually
happening in their city,” said Julie, the pharmacist. “We had
been spared this kind of violence. Until now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 