-- Nadal Says Not Fit Enough to Defend Olympic Title in London
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-07-19T16:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/defending-olympic-champion-rafael-nadal-out-of-london-olympics.html
Reigning Olympic tennis champion
 Rafael Nadal  withdrew from the  London  Games because he said he’s
in no shape to play. He had been scheduled to lead the Spanish
team into the opening ceremony, carrying the national flag.  “I didn’t find myself in a fit enough condition to compete
in the Olympics,” Nadal, a 11-time Grand Slam singles champion
from  Spain , said in an e-mailed statement today.  He had been treated for tendinitis in the knee but gave no
details about his current condition.  “I had to think of my teammates, I could not be
egotistical,” said Nadal, who won his seventh French Open title
last month. “I had to think about Spanish sport, especially
tennis, to allow a teammate of mine to play who is better
prepared and in the right shape to compete.”  The Olympics start July 27 with the opening ceremony.
Tennis begins a day later, at the grass courts of Wimbledon.  “It is one of the saddest days of my career as one of my
biggest ambitions, that of being Spain’s flag bearer in the
opening ceremony of the games in London, cannot be,” Nadal
said. “You can imagine how difficult it was to take this
decision.”  On July 4, Nadal said in a statement that he had knee
tendinitis and that doctors had told him to rest for two weeks.
He canceled a July 14 exhibition match in  Madrid  against
Australian Open winner  Novak Djokovic  of  Serbia .  The left-handed Nadal, who lost to No. 100-ranked Lukas Rosol in the second round at Wimbledon, has struggled with
injuries throughout his career. In 2009, he pulled out of
Wimbledon, where he was defending champion at the time, with
knee tendinitis. He took the month of February off this year to
recover from a shoulder injury.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at the Olympic Park through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  