-- Dell Targeting $5 Billion in Software Sales, Swainson Says
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-07-19T23:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/dell-targeting-5-billion-in-software-sales-john-swainson-says.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  is targeting annual
software sales of $5 billion in the coming years, more than
triple current levels, as it expands beyond computer hardware,
said John Swainson, president of the software division.  Dell, the Round Rock, Texas-based computer maker, also will
probably eschew large software-related  acquisitions  as it
digests the pending purchase of  Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , Swainson
said during a roundtable discussion in San Francisco. In several
years, he hopes software will contribute a quarter of Dell’s
 profits  as the company transitions from selling personal
computers to data-center equipment and software.  “You have this huge PC business,” he said in an interview
after the event. “To have an impact on Dell’s bottom line, you
have to have a meaningful software business.”  Dell said in June it may exceed $2 billion in software
sales in fiscal 2016. Quest will add almost an additional $1
billion to that, Swainson said.  “My real target is more like three in the ’16 time
frame,” Swainson said. Over the next 12 months, the software
group is on track for about $1.5 billion in sales, he said.  Dell’s Push  Since retaking the reins as CEO in 2007 of the company he
founded,  Michael Dell  has been making  acquisitions  and expanding
development of computer hardware and software used to run
corporate data centers and lessening reliance on PC sales. Dell
agreed to buy Quest for $2.4 billion on July 2 after a bidding
war with Insight Venture Partners.  The $5 billion software tally would come several years down
the road, according to Swainson. Dell plans to build or acquire
software in areas including computer security, PC and server
management, data analysis and business applications for
midmarket customers, he said.  That means Dell would increasingly compete with BMC
Software Inc.,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  in so-called system-
management tools to administer fleets of servers and PCs. It may
also compete with  SAP AG (SAP)  and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  in some segments of
the business-applications market, said Swainson.  DuPont Co. chief information officer Phuong Tram said in a
recent interview that the largest hardware companies are adding
software and other technologies to serve more of CIOs’ needs.  “Companies like IBM, HP and Dell have to provide a
computing platform with the server and the software as a
service,” he said. “That’s what all these acquisitions and
vertical integration are about.”  Swainson joined Dell in March from investment company
Silver Lake Partners. He was CEO of CA Inc. from 2005 to 2009
and previously worked for 26 years at IBM.  Dell rose 1.3 percent to $12.23 at the close in New York.
The shares have lost 16.4 percent this year, compared with a 9.5
percent gain in the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  