-- Deutsche Bank Said to Consider Staff Cuts at Investment Bank
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-07-19T10:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/deutsche-bank-said-to-consider-staff-cuts-at-investment-bank-1-.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Europe ’s biggest
bank by assets, is considering cutting about 1,000 positions at
its investment bank as revenue declines, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  The cuts will be mostly outside Germany, where the firm’s
investment banking operations are focused, said the person, who
asked not be identified as Deutsche Bank’s plan hasn’t been made
public. Armin Niedermeier, a spokesman for the Frankfurt-based
bank, declined to comment on potential job losses.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has crimped investment bank
revenue as market uncertainty deters client trading. Deutsche
Bank has trailed competitors in reducing staff because the firm
has better control of costs and doesn’t want to lose market
share, said  Dirk Becker , an analyst with Kepler Capital Markets.  “The investment bank depends on the economy and if markets
plunge, then it is clear they will have to reduce personnel,”
said Becker, who recommends investors buy the stock. “Reducing
capacity less than their competitors means they will be better
positioned to respond to an improvement.”  Western European financial firms have announced fewer than
20,000 job cuts this year, compared with more than 107,000 in
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Job Losses  Deutsche Bank announced 500 job cuts in October after
scrapping its operating pretax profit forecast of 10 billion
euros ($12.3 billion) for 2011 amid a “significant and unabated
slowdown in client activity.” That reduction has been
“materially completed,” Chief Financial Officer  Stefan Krause 
said on an April 26 conference call with analysts.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  announced plans last year to cut
3,500 jobs and lower expenses by 2 billion francs. Switzerland’s
second-biggest bank said yesterday that it was planning to cut
an additional 1 billion francs of costs by the end of 2013,
without providing details of job losses.  Larger Zurich-based rival  UBS AG (UBSN)  announced 3,500 job cuts
last year, with about 1,575 of those at the investment bank.  Deutsche Bank’s co-Chief Executive Officers, Anshu Jain,
49, and Juergen Fitschen, 63, who took over in June, may focus
on cutting costs and disposing of unwanted assets when they
announce their strategy in September,  Kian Abouhossein  and Amit Ranjan, London-based analysts at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said in a
July 3 note.  Cost Savings  The bank may save 2.5 billion euros, led by job reductions,
cost-cutting and lower pay at the investment bank, the analysts
said. The unit could trim as much as 20 percent of its staff,
Abouhossein and Ranjan estimated.  The Deutsche Bank business has about 31,799 employees,
including back-office workers, the highest among global peers,
the JPMorgan analysts said. If Deutsche Bank doesn’t cut any
jobs in the current “weak” environment, its revenue per
employee at the investment bank may fall to the lowest compared
with  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , UBS, Barclays Plc
and Credit Suisse in 2013, according to JPMorgan estimates.  Handelsblatt reported Deutsche Bank’s planned job cuts
earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  