-- Dutch Nurses’ Pension Payouts May Be Cut Amid Low Rates
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-07-19T09:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/dutch-health-care-workers-fund-pfzw-may-cut-pensions-in-2013.html
The 118 billion-euro ($145 billion)
pension fund for 2.5 million Dutch health-care workers became
the latest  retirement plan  to warn of payout cuts due to lower
 interest rates .  Pensioenfonds Zorg en Welzijn , or PFZW, today said that its
coverage ratio, a measure of assets relative to future benefit
payments, fell to 92 percent at the end of the second quarter
from 96 percent at the end of March. The ratio would need to
recover to at least 100 percent by the end of December to
prevent payment cuts.  “Although our assets increased by investment returns, the
low interest rates and increasing life expectancy may make it
inevitable to lower pensions next year and increase premiums,”
Peter Borgdorff, managing director of the second-biggest Dutch
pension fund, said in the statement.  Dutch retirement plans have been struggling to keep their
financial buffers at levels required by the nation’s central
bank as  Europe ’s debt crisis lingers, driving down yields on
bonds from nations perceived to have the soundest finances,
including the Netherlands. Investment returns haven’t been
sufficient to keep up with the value of obligations. The
liabilities are discounted at a market rate, and the value of
those liabilities rises as rates fall.  The Netherlands has the euro region’s biggest pension
industry, with 913 billion euros in assets at the end of the
first quarter,  data  from the Dutch central bank show. The assets
are held in collective plans run by industry, company and
occupational pension funds.  Discount Rate  The discount rate dropped to 2.27 percent at the end of
June from 2.54 percent at the end of March, decreasing the
coverage ratio by 5 percentage points, PFZW said. Investment
returns and interest-rate hedges had a positive effect of 1
percentage point.  Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP, the Netherlands’ biggest
retirement fund, said in January it may reduce pensions by about
0.5 percent in 2013 and raise premiums by 3 percent if it
doesn’t recover sufficiently during the year. More than 100
plans in the Netherlands have announced similar intentions.  ABP, which manages 261 billion euros for 2.8 million
people, today said additional cuts for 2014 may be needed. Its
coverage ratio fell 5 percentage points to 90 percent during the
first quarter, putting its recovery further off course. Return
on investment was 0.1 percent in the second quarter.  Call for Change  The central bank’s decision to allow retirement plans to
use a three-month average swap rate to calculate liabilities,
rather than the rate at the end of the reporting period, hasn’t
provided relief to the funds.  PFZW had a return on investment of 1 percent in the second
quarter, compared with an annual average of 8.2 percent since
the fund’s inception in 1971. Equities lost 3.9 percent during
the quarter, while commodities fell 16 percent as  oil prices 
declined on a worsening global economic outlook.  Borgdorff called on the Dutch government to speed the
introduction of a new method of calculating liabilities using a
less volatile rate, which may make payout cuts for the plan’s
participants less severe.  Minister of Social Affairs Henk Kamp said in May that he
plans to allow funds to value obligations using a “stable and
realistic prognosis of long-term interest rates,” known as the
ultimate forward rate. The government hasn’t decided when this
will apply.  Kamp told Het Financieele Dagblad this week that the
change’s effects on coverage ratios will be limited to make sure
younger savers’ pensions aren’t at risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  