-- East Africa's Seasonal Rains Are Seen Improving by USAID
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-07-19T09:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/east-africa-s-seasonal-rains-are-seen-improving-by-usaid.html
East Africa ’s seasonal rains are
improving after a delayed start that resulted in late crop
planting, the U.S. Agency for International Development said.  Rain in  Sudan  and South Sudan ranged from normal to more
than 25 percent greater than usual so far in the June-to-
September rainy period, and the outlook for rainfall is
favorable for crop-growing areas in the north of East Africa,
USAID wrote yesterday in a  report  on its website.  Somalia, Eritrea and  Ethiopia  in the region rank among the
world’s 25 poorest countries, according to the CIA World
Factbook. A famine in southern Somalia last year that officially
ended in February caused tens of thousands of deaths, according
to the  United Nations .  “For the key cropping regions of Kenya, Ethiopia, Uganda,
Sudan and South Sudan, crop conditions have remained favorable
and relatively better than 2011,” USAID wrote.  Vegetation development across the Great Rift Valley in
Kenya into South Sudan is better-than-normal, while conditions
are below average in parts of central and western Ethiopia,
according to the report.  The forecast is for sustained heavy rains across the west
and north of the region in coming weeks, which could cause
flooding in parts of South Sudan and Sudan, potentially damaging
crops and property, USAID said. Conditions in the east are
expected to worsen on hotter-than-usual weather.  El Nino conditions are developing over the  Pacific Ocean ,
which could lead to wetter-than-normal weather during the
October-to-December rainy period in the east of the region,
including the south of Somalia and Ethiopia and northeastern
parts of Kenya, according to the agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  