-- Economists Argue If U.S. Economy Recovering or Back in Recession
-- B y   M a t t h e w   P h i l i p s
-- 2012-07-19T21:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/economists-argue-if-u-s-economy-recovering-or-back-in-recession.html
The thing about a recession is that
you typically don’t know you’re in one until it’s been around
for a while. Broadly defined, an economy is in recession not
just when it’s operating below capacity, but when it’s outright
shrinking. Exactly what constitutes that shrinkage, though, can
be fuzzy. The most cited rule of thumb, two consecutive quarters
of declining output, doesn’t always apply. Gross domestic
product is often positive when a recession starts. That’s why
recoveries sometimes don’t feel much different than recessions.  “This is the most bizarre business cycle I’ve ever seen,”
says  David Rosenberg , chief economist at Gluskin Sheff &
Associates, who thinks the U.S. is “uncomfortably close” to a
recession, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 23
edition. The question Rosenberg and some other economists are
now asking is not if the U.S. will dip back into recession, but
when. Or whether it already has.  After a promising start to the year, economic activity has
faded considerably. Job growth is down. Growth forecasts have
been pared back. And manufacturing, a bright spot in an
otherwise meager recovery, has weakened. “I believe the economy
is in a recession already,” says  Lakshman Achuthan , co-founder
of the Economic Cycle Research Institute. A poll conducted by
the Washington Post in April found that 76 percent of Americans
still believed the U.S. was in recession, even though the
economy has been growing since June 2009. Achuthan sees plenty
of evidence showing the economy is shrinking. A few data points
that back up his assertion:  Falling Sales  - Declining consumption. June marked the third consecutive
month of falling  retail sales , the first time that’s happened
since 2008. Household consumption still accounts for roughly 70
percent of U.S. economic activity. Consumers have spent much of
the past three years working off the huge amounts of debt they
took on during the boom years, so their spending has been
sporadic, and they still have a long way to go toward
deleveraging. The U.S. household debt-to-income ratio is still
114 percent, down from 133 percent at its peak. Until that comes
down,  consumer spending  is likely to be depressed.  - Factory output is slumping. The manufacturing  index  of
the  Institute for Supply Management  dipped in June to 49.7. Any
figure below 50 means the sector is shrinking. It was the first
sub-50 reading in nearly three years.  - Consumers remain gloomy. Despite an upward blip earlier
this year, Bloomberg’s weekly Consumer Comfort Index is still
around levels seen early in the recession that ended in June
2009.  Little Optimism  Although most economists scoff at Achuthan’s early
recession call, they’re not exactly countering it with optimism.
 Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank, recently
revised down his GDP forecast for the second quarter by a full
percentage point to 1.4 percent. On July 13, LaVorgna told
Bloomberg Businessweek that he was worried his revision wasn’t
low enough. Two days later he pushed it down to 1 percent.
Goldman Sachs Chief Economist  Jan Hatzius , only slightly less
bearish, has revised his second-quarter estimate to 1.1 percent.
On July 16 bond king  Bill Gross  of Pimco tweeted that the U.S.
is “approaching recession.”  Still, there are reasons to believe we’re not there yet:  - The housing sector is healing. More than six years after
the bubble burst,  home prices  appear to have bottomed for real
this time. The S&P/Case-Shiller Home Price Index showed that
average home prices rose 1.3 percent in April, ending seven
consecutive months of declines. A lot of the vacant and unsold
homes that were weighing on the market have been bought up over
the past year, fueling fresh construction.  Housing starts  in
June were at their highest level since October 2008.  Gasoline Prices  - Consumers are getting some relief at the pump. The
national average price for a gallon of  gasoline  has fallen more
than 50¢ since April. It typically takes a while for those
savings to flow through the economy, but it should add some room
for consumers to spend a bit more this summer.  - Pay is up. Though incomes have stagnated through the
recovery, the most recent jobs report showed that not only did
employees work longer hours in June, but wages also grew. Over
the last 12 months, average hourly earnings for private-sector
employees grew 2 percent.  None of this adds up to anything resembling a robust
recovery. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for GDP to grow only 2.2 percent through the rest
of the year. Many see a rising risk of recession striking within
12 months, particularly with the “fiscal cliff” of tax hikes
and spending cuts set to take effect on Jan. 1, 2013. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben Bernanke  says unless Congress acts to avoid
the cliff, a “shallow recession” could result.  Slow Recovery  Ironically, the slow pace of the recovery could help stave
off a recession. Although the economy remains vulnerable to
external shocks, like the euro’s collapse or a sharp slowdown in
 China , growth’s been so weak that the U.S. doesn’t have the
sorts of internal imbalances that tend to bring on recessions,
like an overheated housing sector or high inflation. “Things
are so lean and mean, there aren’t a lot of excesses that need
to be reduced,” says  Julia Coronado , chief economist at BNP
Paribas. “In a way, that’s insulated us” from a deeper
downturn. So look on the bright side: If a recession does hit,
it might not be so bad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Philips in  New York  at 
 mphilips3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  