-- Electrolux Profit Beats Estimates as Price Increase Bite
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-07-19T06:59:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/electrolux-profit-beats-estimates-as-price-increase-bite-1-.html
Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-
biggest appliance maker, reported quarterly profit and sales
that beat analysts’ estimates after it succeeded in pushing
through higher prices in North America.  Second-quarter net income rose to 761 million kronor ($110
million) from 561 million kronor a year earlier, Stockholm-based
Electrolux said in a statement today. Twelve analysts on average
estimated a profit of 604 million kronor in a  Bloomberg survey .
Sales climbed 15 percent to 27.8 billion kronor, topping the
average estimate of 26.6 billion kronor.  “North America, where price increases came through more
than expected, impressed on the margin side,” said Johan Dahl,
an analyst at Erik Penser Bankaktiebolag in  Stockholm  who
recommends that investors buy Electrolux’s shares. “ Europe ,
where Electrolux is growing more than the overall market
impressed as well.”  The maker of Frigidaire refrigerators and AEG vacuum
cleaners has suffered from the decline in  consumer confidence  in
mature markets and high raw-material costs, leading it to push
for higher prices in  North America  and Europe this year and
plans to close plants in the regions.  Electrolux’s operating income for its North American major
appliance business more than tripled to 512 million kronor from
138 million kronor, and the operating margin in the region rose
to 6 percent from 1.8 percent. The operating margin for Europe,
 Middle East  and Africa rose to 2.6 percent from 2 percent.  Modest Growth  “As we go forward, we expect the North American appliance
market to show modest growth as the housing market gradually
recovers,” Chief Executive Officer Keith McLoughlin said in a
separate release. “Higher sales prices in North America had a
positive impact on operating income,” the company said.  Electrolux, which has about 50 factories, will close
several in North America and Europe, McLoughlin, an American who
took over at the start of 2011, said in February. The company,
which competes with Benton Harbor, Michigan-based  Whirlpool
Corp. (WHR) , today reiterated its forecast that its raw material costs
will increase by no more than 500 million kronor this year.
Whirlpool, the world’s biggest appliance maker, is scheduled to
report earnings on July 24.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  