-- Electronic Arts Rises After CEO Says Growth Is Ahead
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-07-19T19:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/electronic-arts-rises-after-ceo-says-growth-is-ahead.html
Electronic Arts Inc. (EA) , the second-
largest video-game publisher, rose the most in more than five
months after Chief Executive Officer John Riccitiello suggested
investors are overlooking the company’s growth potential.  The  shares  rose 7 percent to $12.30 at 3:35 p.m. in  New
York  and earlier gained 7.5 percent, the biggest intraday jump
since Feb. 2.  Redwood City , California-based Electronic Arts had
fallen about 44 percent this year through yesterday.  Riccitiello this week reiterated his concerns that
investors have shied away from video-game makers because they
don’t fully grasp the industry’s growth potential. Analysts and
investors who focus on games sold at retail are overlooking
Electronic Arts’ growing dominance in games sold digitally, he
said. Games sold at retail outlets have fallen for almost two
years, according to researcher NPD Group.  “The external world wants to see you five years ago, the
way you were, and the only proof-point they’re willing to look
for is sort of what happened yesterday,” Riccitiello said on
July 17 at the Fortune Brainstorm technology conference in
Aspen,  Colorado .  The company’s  sales  of games sold on Facebook Inc.’s social
network, mobile and other platforms will grow to $1.7 billion
this year from $1.2 billion last year and from nothing a few
years ago, Riccitiello said. A year ago Electronic Arts agreed
to buy  PopCap Games  to extend its drive into online titles that
compete against  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest casual-games application
developer on Facebook.  Riccitiello, in a July 17 interview on CNBC, called his
company’s shares “a buying opportunity” over the next 12
months as digital sales grow and makers of home video-game
consoles begin shipping new machines for the first time in six
years, beginning this fall with Nintendo Co.’s Wii U.  “There is a perception among investors that the game
industry is tough to invest in right now and they’re looking for
the winners and they’re looking for the catalysts,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  