-- Eletrobras Strike Affecting Petrobras, Energy
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-07-19T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/eletrobras-strike-signals-wage-pain-ahead-for-petrobras.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  and  Centrais
Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6) , Brazil’s biggest state-run companies,
are bracing for wage increases that exceed inflation amid
coordinated walkouts affecting the entire federal government.  Workers at Eletrobras, as  Latin America ’s largest utility
is known, went on strike July 16 to demand a 10 percent wage
increase, double the inflation rate, leaving a skeleton crew on
the job to avoid service disruptions. The Petrobras labor union
won a 12 percent increase in the share of profits that goes to
workers after threatening a walkout tomorrow, and the company
still needs to negotiate a yearly pay raise in coming months.  The demands put pressure on Petrobras, which spends about
20 billion reais ($9.9 billion) a year on wages, as the Rio de
Janeiro-based company tries to sell assets to raise cash and
reduces production targets. Eletrobras said payroll costs grew
7.8 percent last year to 5.23 billion reais. A slowing economy
and Petrobras’s declining income from operations may help
persuade workers to accept lower wage increases than in the past
decade.  “The reality is different now, the economy isn’t growing
and Petrobras has cash flow problems,” said  Adriano Pires , head
of consulting firm Brazilian Center for Infrastructure. “Now
we’re entering a reality phase.”  Before today, Petrobras, the world’s fifth-largest oil
producer by market value, dropped 10 percent in Sao Paulo
trading  this year , more than the 3.8 percent decline in the
benchmark Bovespa index. Rio de Janeiro-based Eletrobras has
slumped 28 percent.  Past Strikes  In 2009, Petrobras faced three strikes, including a five-
day stoppage of about 10,000 workers that halted two oil
terminals and temporarily slowed production at refineries. The
company said at the time the walkout didn’t curb average oil
output. In Norway a 16-day strike that ended on July 10 cut as
much as 250,000 barrels a day in production by  Statoil ASA (STL) ’s,
the country’s largest producer.  “All these strikes have the potential to disrupt
production,”  Gianna Bern , president of Brookshire Advisory &
Research Inc. in  Chicago , said in a July 5 telephone interview.  Petrobras workers won a 10.7 percent increase last year,
following a 9.4 percent raise in 2010, after threatening to walk
out. The rising costs add to a $236.5 billion five-year spending
plan to tap and process oil in deep waters of the Atlantic. The
company plans to  borrow  $80 billion to finance the plan and
service its debt.  Workers vote today on the oil producer’s profit sharing
proposal after their union recommended they accept it late
yesterday. Petrobras said in an e-mailed statement that the
offer was final.  Indefinite Period  At Eletrobras, where workers won an increase of 1.5
percentage points above inflation last year, the walkout
involving about 80 percent of its 27,000 staff is the first
strike for an indefinite period in 22 years, union leader
Emanuel Mendes said yesterday in a telephone interview. The
utility plans to invest 13.3 billion reais this year.  An Eletrobras press official in Rio said the company won’t
elaborate on its July 16 statement about the strike.  “Given the international scenario, with a strong impact on
the country’s economy, the company considers its proposal to
adjust salaries by the inflation rate to be fair and adequate
and expects workers to understand the imposed limits and return
to work immediately,” the utility said in the statement.  Public workers from regulatory agencies to hospitals and
universities are pressing President  Dilma Rousseff  to win above-
inflation increases for a tenth straight year even as Brazil is
set to grow the least in three years. About 350,000 civil
servants are on strike, said Sergio Ronaldo da Silva, a
spokesman for the confederation of federal civil servants.  Budget Impact  Granting all the demands would cost about 92 billion reais
to public coffers, said an official at the Planning Ministry who
can’t be named because of internal policy. The ministry official
said the government didn’t have an estimate for the amount of
workers going on strike.  “With the pressure at this moment, in which there is a big
concern about maintaining a fiscal surplus, I think it will be
difficult for the government to attend to these demands,”
Newton de Camargo Rosa, chief economist at SulAmerica
Investimentos, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Rousseff, 64, is trying to curb spending that her
predecessor Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva inflated so that the
central bank can continue the cycle of interest-rate cuts it
began in August to shield  Brazil  from  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Lula’s Increases  Under Lula, civil servants won eight years of wage
increases averaging 7 percentage points above inflation
annually. Last year, Rousseff gave federal workers a pay raise
that was 2 percentage points above the inflation rate.  Inflation will slow to 4.87 percent this year from a seven-
year high of 6.6 percent in 2011, according to the median
estimate in a central bank survey of economist published July
16. Economic growth will slow to 1.9 percent from 2.7 last year
and 7.5 percent in 2010.  A 13 percent decline in  oil prices  this year amid a global
economic slowdown also puts Petrobras in a harder position to
offer wage increases than in past years, Bern said.  “How are they going to spread the wealth when their stock
price is way down, they have a massive investment plan and crude
prices are off their highs?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio De Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  