-- Mellanox Hits Record as Sales Beat Estimates: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-19T07:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/mellanox-hits-record-as-sales-beat-estimates-israel-overnight.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , the
Israeli maker of technology used to transfer and store data,
climbed to the highest level on record in after-hour New York
trading as its third-quarter sales forecast surpassed estimates.  The technology developer soared 44 percent to $95.36 at
6:40 p.m. in New York yesterday as the company reported second-
quarter earnings after the close of the market. Mellanox rose to
$66.38 in regular U.S. trading. Its Tel Aviv shares surged 46.8
percent to a record 372.10 shekels, or $92.75, at 10:07 a.m.
today.  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)  climbed the most
in six months. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most-
traded Israeli companies in New York rose the most this month.  The third-quarter sales outlook beat expectations by as
much as $50 million, according to the mean estimate of 12
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Revenue will continue to rise as
Mellanox benefits from mounting demand for cloud technology,
Mizuho Securities USA Inc. said. The market for cheaper storage
solutions is expected to climb to $10.5 billion in 2014 from
$3.7 billion last year, according to  Gartner Inc. (IT)   “This is a company finding itself in a very unique
position where the demand for their technology is increasing at
a rapid pace and they have no competition,” Ruben Roy, an
analyst at Mizuho, said by phone from New York yesterday. “The
management team is executing remarkably well and you have got
one of the most interesting niche technologies.”  The Bloomberg Israel-U.S. Index climbed 2.1 percent to
78.63, paring its decline this year to 3.2 percent.  Israel ’s
benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  gained 1.9 percent to 1,077.85 in  Tel
Aviv , trimming the gauge’s retreat to 0.6 percent this year.  ‘Buying Opportunity’  Mounting concern that falling growth rates in  China , the
 European debt crisis  and a tepid American recovery will result
in companies missing sales targets and reducing their outlook
has pushed major Israeli technology shares lower, Oppenheimer &
Co. said.  Mellanox had declined 19 percent from this year’s high of
$76.82 reached on July 5, before yesterday’s trading. Shares of
 Check Point , the world’s second largest maker of security
networks, slumped 22 percent in the second quarter, the worst
three-month performance since 2004.  “The general view is that there is a buying opportunity,”
Andrew Uerkwitz, an analyst at Oppenheimer said by phone from
 New York  yesterday. “There had been overselling in the last
couple of weeks as people were pessimistic.”  Stock Repurchase  Check Point gained 6.9 percent to $48.75 yesterday, its
biggest increase since Jan. 17. The company, which reported
earnings of 71 cents per share, plans to increase share
repurchases by as much as $1 billion over the next two years,
according to a statement yesterday. Second-quarter revenue
increased 9.3 percent to $328.7 million, about 1 percent below
the $331.8 million mean estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Check Point is benefiting from a change in the Israeli tax
law this year that allows the company to use its  cash flow  from
earnings to repurchase shares and return value to shareholders,
according to  Rick Sherlund , an analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc.
in New York.  “This will have the effect of reducing the share count at
the company and enabling earnings to be spread over a fewer
number of shares,” Sherlund said in an e-mail. The move will
create an underlying demand for the shares, which “is viewed by
investors as a benefit to the stock and a positive for the
company,” he wrote.  Mellanox, based in Yokneam Elit, Israel, reported adjusted
earnings per share of 99 cents, more than the 73.5-cent mean
estimate of 11 analysts. Its sales for the three months ending
June 30  more than doubled  over the same period last year.  Third-quarter sales will reach $150 million to $155
million, the company said in a conference call with analysts
after the market closed. The outlook beat revenue expectation of
$104 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  