-- Temasek, CIC Said to Invest in GTI Trust’s Singapore IPO
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d ,   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-07-19T06:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/temasek-said-to-invest-in-gti-s-singapore-initial-public-offer.html
Temasek Holdings Pte and China
Investment Corp. agreed to invest in Global Telecommunications
Infrastructure Trust’s initial public offering in Singapore,
said three people with knowledge of the matter.  GTI Trust (GTI) , the undersea cable unit of  Reliance
Communications Ltd. (RCOM) , is selling $250 million to $300 million of
stock to four sovereign wealth funds as part of the IPO, said
two of the people, who asked not to be identified as the details
are private. It wasn’t immediately clear how much Temasek or CIC
invested.  Companies have relied on large investors, including
sovereign wealth funds, for IPO fundraising in Asia as volatile
stock markets made offers more difficult to complete. IPOs in
Singapore have raised just $824 million this year, compared with
almost $7 billion in the first half of 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  GTI Trust will probably price the units at the low end of a
marketed range, and offer investors a yield of 11.5 percent, two
of the people said. That’s a higher payout than other business
trusts listed in Singapore such as Li Ka-shing’s  Hutchison Port
Holdings Trust. (HPHT)   Stephen Forshaw , a spokesman for Temasek, declined to
comment. A phone call to CIC’s Beijing-based media office went
unanswered.  GTI Trust owns four subsea cable systems that carry
Internet traffic and data around the globe, according to a
 prospectus  filed in Singapore on July 5. Reliance, controlled by
Indian billionaire Anil Ambani, is attempting to sell assets to
reduce net debt that stood at 358 billion rupees ($6.5 billion)
at the end of March.  Deutsche Bank AG, DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,  Industrial &
Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd. and Standard Chartered Plc are
arranging the offering.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in Mumbai at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  