-- Emerging Stocks Rise to Two-Week High on China Stimulus Outlook
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 2012-07-19T22:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/emerging-stocks-rise-to-2-week-high-on-china-stimulus-outlook.html
Emerging-market stocks climbed to a
two-week high on prospects policy makers in China and the U.S.
will take more steps to bolster economic growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  advanced 1.1 percent to
941.13 in  New York , the highest close since July 6.  Petroleo
Brasileiro Sa (PETR4)  gained in Sao Paulo after oil rose.  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)  gained the most in seven weeks
before the company reported its highest profit in six quarters.
 Bank of Communications Co.  led Chinese lenders higher on bets of
further cut to the reserve-ratio requirement.  China’s Premier Wen Jiabao will probably decide to cut
banks’ reserve requirements and encourage lending as the cabinet
meets to discuss efforts to revive growth, the swap market
indicates, injecting liquidity into the system as the absence of
robust growth in the developed world weights on markets
globally. More Americans than forecast filed first-time claims
for unemployment last week while sales of previously owned U.S.
homes unexpectedly fell in June to an eight-month low.  “If there is a greater slowdown in the developed world,
you have more room for policy action in the emerging market
space,”  Tim Hall , who manages about $700 million at Deltec
Asset Management, said by phone from New York. “Central banks
in these markets have a lot of firepower because of which you
have a potential for pick up in the economies in the second half
of the year.”  Oil Climbs  MSCI’s index of developing nations, which has gained 2.7
percent this year, trades at a multiple of 10.2 times estimated
earnings, compared with 12.5 for the MSCI World Index of
developed nations, which has advanced 5.5 percent in 2012,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the ETF tracking developing-nation shares, rose 0.9
percent to $39.17. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets  ETF (EEM)  Volatility Index, a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, declined for a third day,
falling 0.8 percent to 23.92.  Brazil’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index climbed 1.4 percent to the highest
level since July 6, as Petrobras gained 1.5 percent. Russia’s
 Micex (INDEXCF)  Index advanced 0.6 percent, led by a 1.2 percent gain in
OAO Gazprom, the world’s largest natural-gas producer.  Oil advanced to the highest level in two months on rising
concern that the  Middle East  will lose stability, disrupting
supplies from a region responsible for about 30 percent of world
production.  Record Low  Purchases of existing home sales in the U.S. decreased 5.4
percent to a 4.37 million annual rate last month from a revised
4.62 million in May, figures from the National Association of
Realtors showed today in Washington. The median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for a 4.62 million
pace.  Applications for jobless benefits increased by 34,000 to
386,000 in the week ended July 14, Labor Department figures
showed today.  Bond yields in  emerging markets  are falling to record lows
as inflation tumbles compared with benchmark  interest rates ,
providing policy makers with more opportunities to lower
borrowing costs. Asian economies may need to ease monetary and
fiscal policies further as Europe’s debt turmoil crimps global
growth, the  Asian Development Bank  said in a report today.  ’Weak Growth’  “A prolonged period of weak growth and financial fragility
in advanced economies highlight the urgent need for
internationally coordinated policy responses and greater levels
of regional cooperation,” the bank said in the report.  The cost to lock in the three-month Shanghai interbank
offered rate for a year was near a two-year low according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, signaling a further cut in banks’
reserve requirements may be imminent.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s No. 1 offshore oil producer, rose to
the highest in more than two months. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies  listed  in  Hong Kong 
jumped 2.4 percent, the most since June 29, leading gains among
emerging-market gauges. South Korea’s Kospi index gained 1.6
percent and Taiwan’s  Taiex (TWSE)  Index climbed 1.4 percent.  “Investors haven’t given up that China will do everything
to ensure its own economic recovery,” said  Jonathan Ravelas ,
chief market strategist at Manila-based BDO Unibank Inc. “The
housing data is a promising sign that U.S. economic activity is
picking up and supports the outlook that the  U.S. economy  is in
a slow phase and not in a fragile state.”  Ruble Gains  A gauge of technology companies led  gains  in all 10
industry groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , the world’s biggest
computer-services provider, boosted its full-year earnings
forecast yesterday while Qualcomm Inc., the largest seller of
mobile-phone semiconductors, said quarterly results showed
consumers in emerging markets are trading up to next-generation
handsets, lifting profitability.  The ruble gained for an eighth day against the central
bank’s target euro-dollar basket, its longest streak of advances
since December 2010, as crude rallied on bets the global
economic recovery is on track.  Taiwan Semiconductor climbed 3.6 percent, the most since
May 31. The company’s second-quarter profit rose 16 percent from
a year earlier to NT$41.8 billion ($1.4 billion) as demand for
chips used in smartphones boosted sales. Bank of Communications,
mainland China’s fifth-largest bank by value, increased 3.3
percent in Hong Kong, the steepest gain since June 29.  China Lending  China’s four biggest banks extended about twice as many new
loans in the first half of July compared with the same period
last month, the Shanghai Securities News reported earlier.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , India’s biggest carmaker, plunged
8.7 percent, making it the worst performer in the BSE India
Sensitive Index, which rose 0.5 percent. One person died and
more than 70 management workers were injured after violence
erupted at the company’s factory at Manesar near  New Delhi ,
Gurgaon Police Commissioner K.K. Sindhu said in a telephone
interview today.  Woori Finance Holdings Co. led South Korean banks lower as
the country’s antitrust agency widens its probe of key money-
market rate collusion.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 345, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  