-- Tenaga Posts Second Straight Quarterly Profit After Compensation
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-07-19T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/tenaga-posts-second-straight-quarterly-profit-after-compensation.html
Tenaga Nasional Bhd. (TNB) , Malaysia’s
biggest power producer, reported a second straight quarterly
profit after booking another 777.8 million ringgit ($247 million)
in state compensation for disruptions in gas supply.  The utility posted  net income  of 619.1 million ringgit, or
11.3 sen per share, for its fiscal third quarter ended May 31,
compared with a restated net loss of 179.2 million ringgit or
3.3 sen per share a year earlier, Tenaga said in a statement
yesterday. Revenue climbed 15 percent to 9.2 billion ringgit
from a restated 7.98 billion ringgit a year ago, it said.  “The group is expected to record a better performance than
the last financial year mainly due to expected higher demand,
implementation of a fuel cost-sharing mechanism and higher coal
plant availability,” Tenaga said in the statement.  The Kuala Lumpur-based utility is getting compensation from
the government and state-owned energy group Petroliam Nasional
Bhd. after disruptions in gas supply forced it to buy costlier
alternative fuels to power its plants. This latest payout, yet
to be received, is for additional costs incurred in the seven
months to May.  This compensation agreement is scheduled to end in
September when Petroliam Nasional, or Petronas, is expected to
boost supply with the opening of a regasification plant in
Malacca state, Azman Mohd, Tenaga’s new chief executive officer,
told reporters in  Kuala Lumpur .  “We will remain neutral and shielded from any changes in
gas prices” due to state subsidies, said Azman, who was
promoted earlier this month when Che Khalib Mohamad Noh decided
not to renew his contract.  Coal Costs  Operating expenses fell 12 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier to 7.3 billion ringgit, as  coal costs  eased,
said Azman, previously chief operating officer.  Tenaga paid an average $104.30 per metric ton for its coal
during the three-month period ended May, down from $108.50 in
the preceding quarter. The price may fall to $100 in the current
quarter, Azman said.  Tenaga’s  shares  rose 0.3 percent to close at 6.75 ringgit
in Kuala Lumpur before yesterday’s earnings announcement. They
have risen 14 percent this year, outpacing a 7 gain in the
benchmark FTSE Bursa  Malaysia  KLCI Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter in Kuala Lumpur at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  