-- Let States Do the Tax-Collecting Dirty Work
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-07-19T22:30:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/let-states-do-the-tax-collecting-dirty-work.html
“But the best ideas don’t spread
spontaneously.”  That line from the  New York Times  columnist Bill Keller
about state experiments involving President  Barack Obama ’s
Affordable Care Act reflects a prevalent attitude: States that
break away with original fiscal plans come up with subpar
results that waste everyone’s time.  This summer, the focus of such criticism is  Florida 
Governor  Rick Scott ’s announcement that his state won’t
participate in the expansion of Medicaid under Obama’s health-
care reform. Scott is pulling away from a federal plan, a move
Obama will doubtless raise when he tours Florida this weekend.
Yet long before this administration came along, states began
running off from their own pack of fellow states, experimenting
with their own tax base. And these experiments, too, have often
been condemned for squandering time and money.  But what if the state experiments are worthwhile, and one
of them uncovers the best idea in economic policy? Perhaps that
idea could spread without coordinated help from officials in
Washington.  The boldest move for the states and their representatives
in Congress is to call the critics’ bluff. That is, to develop
some kind of giant fiscal experiment, even more dramatic than
the opting out of the Medicaid component by Florida. Then all
could see whether states can produce a “best idea,” and whether
such ideas can spread.  This is what was mooted by  Kevin Hassett , an adviser to
 Mitt Romney  and a scholar at the  American Enterprise Institute .
Hassett didn’t develop details, but we can hypothesize how it
all might work. Start by recording the amount each state’s
citizens contribute to federal coffers. In 2011, for example,
Florida paid a total of about $117 billion in federal taxes,
according to the Internal Revenue Service’s Statistics of
Income.  The new idea wouldn’t change the amount that states owe,
their “bill” from Washington. (Florida would pay $117 billion
next year.) And future obligations of states would continue to
be indexed to reflect changes in population, economic growth or
inflation. The proposal would change only one thing: how the tax
is collected. Officials in  Washington  would leave it to each
state government to figure out how to come up with the money.  States would respond in different ways. Some might simply
raise their income-tax rates to include the amount of the
federal levies. Others, however, might collect the entire amount
owed to the federal government through the property tax, so that
homeowners confronted only one bill, albeit a screamingly high
one, every year. This follows the tradition of the philosopher
 Henry George ’s “single tax.”  Some states might increase  sales taxes  to capture the
amount equivalent to its previous income-tax payments. Yet
others might tax only the wealthy. The penalty for a system that
fails would be tough, since most states have laws requiring them
to balance their budgets.  Some states might find that lower rates draw people and
companies. That, in turn, would broaden those states’ tax base
dramatically. A state might keep taxes high and provide sterling
services, and find they draw population or business. In any
case, the rumble of state tax competition we are experiencing
today would become a roar.  There will be objections, of course. The first is that
states’ collecting the money isn’t our tradition. It is,
actually. Under the  Articles of Confederation , the states, not
individuals, owed payments to the federal government. The modern
income tax, where citizens pay the federal government, came into
being only a century ago.  The second objection is that some states with low rates
happen to be the greatest beneficiaries of federal programs.
While politicians of Republican-dominated states lecture on the
need for more freedom, their constituents collect Medicaid,
school aid, and so on. But this is already true. If more
Americans move to low-tax states, the federal government may not
have the funds to subsidize states. This would force citizens,
including supporters of the  Tea Party , to confront their own
inconsistency. That has to be a good idea. So is forcing states
to be tax collectors. Replacing the IRS means taxpayers can no
longer blame the IRS.  The third objection is that a state won’t be able to
collect the taxes, even though an individual’s  tax bill  might be
identical to the amount paid in the past when people added up
state and local obligations. In a property-tax-based regime,
families would get one big bill, a property tax, often in the
six figures, which would be too great a shock.  This concern is absolutely legitimate. But not everyone
will simply run away. Some will start to think about themselves,
their taxes and governments. They will wake up. For the plan
lifts the veil of what the Italian economist  Amilcare Puviani 
called “fiscal illusion.” He taught that governments work hard
to conceal from citizens how much tax they pay. Because they
believe they are paying less than they actually are, people go
along with government outlays.  As the scholar Joseph Henchman at the Tax Foundation notes,
fiscal illusion is at work in  Europe , where great pains are
taken to hide from Germans the extent to which they subsidize
Greeks. In the U.S., federalism has empowered fiscal illusion.
People tend to think of their state and federal tax bills as
separate. But if you rip the veil away, Americans will discover
the amount of their total tax burden and consider change.  The details can be laid out later, but a plan along these
lines is worth contemplating. No one really knows what the “best
idea” is for America’s fiscal future. Until we do, long live
experiments.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  California ’s model  maternity-
leave program  and on  remodeling austerity  in the U.K.; Stephen
L. Carter on  lying politicians ; William Pesek on the  loss of
faith  in bankers;  Virginia Postrel  on  economic segregation ;
 Jonathan Weil  on the Barclays  Libor-rigging settlement ; Robert
Boxwell on one banker’s  exemplary testimony  to the U.K.
Parliament;  Nell Minow  on the U.S.’s budding shareholder revolt
over  excessive corporate pay .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  