-- Ethiopian Prime Minister Takes Break to Recover From Illness
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-07-19T13:22:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/ethiopian-prime-minister-takes-break-to-recover-from-illness-1-.html
Ethiopian Prime Minister Meles Zenawi is taking a break to recover from an unspecified illness
and will return to duty once he is well, Communications Minister
Bereket Simon said.  “He is in good health,” Bereket told reporters today in
 Addis Ababa , the Ethiopian capital, adding that further details
aren’t being announced for privacy reasons. Meles is expected to
return to work “in the near future,” he said.  The 57-year-old leader failed to attend the two-day African
Union heads-of-state summit that began in Addis Ababa on July
15. Meles had planned to go the meeting, Bereket said. Anti-
government groups including the U.S.-based Ethiopian National
Transitional Council said on July 15 Meles may have died after
receiving treatment in a Belgian hospital, while the Middle East
News Agency reported a day later that the prime minister had
surgery in Germany, without citing anyone.  Meles is head of the ruling  Ethiopian People’s
Revolutionary Democratic Front  and has held power in  Ethiopia 
for more than two decades, after helping lead allied rebel
groups to overthrow Mengistu Haile Mariam’s Marxist military
junta in 1991.  Under Meles, Ethiopia’s government has been a U.S. ally in
the fight against insurgencies in the Horn of  Africa , especially
in Somalia, where the military helped remove an Islamist group
from power in 2006. The U.S. government provided $6.23 billion
in assistance, including food aid and military training funds
between 2000 and 2011, according to the State Department.  Ethiopian Deputy Prime Minister Hailemariam Desalegn, who
is also the country’s foreign minister, led the Ethiopian
delegation at the African Union summit earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  