-- Metro-North to Add 230 Trains as N.Y. MTA Reverses Cuts
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/metro-north-expanding-weekend-service-as-n-y-mta-restores-cuts.html
New York’s  Metropolitan
Transportation Authority  plans to expand Metro-North train
service by the most in its history to accommodate growing
weekend demand, as the agency restores systemwide cuts made in
2010 during a fiscal crunch.  Metro-North will add 230 trains a week -- 220 east of the
 Hudson River  and 10 west of it -- in the largest expansion since
the railroad’s inception in 1983. Most of the new service will
be on weekends and in off-peak hours to meet growing non-
commuter ridership. Additions begin in October, the agency said.  “Increased overall ridership revenues combined with cost
savings are enabling us to make new investments to meet our
customers’ needs and to support the economic vitality of the  New
York  metropolitan area,” MTA Chairman Joseph J. Lhota said
today in a briefing with reporters. He pegged the expansion’s
cost at $29.5 million annually.  Service restorations and additions to almost 40 rail,
subway and bus lines precede planned fare and toll increases
that will be part of the 2013 budget officials unveil next week.
A recommendation that those increases take effect March 1,
instead of two months earlier, will be included in the spending
plan, Lhota said.  ‘Fragile’ Position  The agency’s financial position remains “fragile” --
though not as precarious as last year -- and total subway
ridership is at a 60-year high, with the system carrying 1.64
billion passengers last year, Lhota said. Still, the fare and
toll increases, which the agency expects to bring in $450
million annually, are necessary because of growth in pension,
health-care and debt-service costs, Lhota said.  “These discretionary costs are actually the source of the
instability in our financial plan,” Lhota told reporters.
“They’re the root cause of why I say our financial plan is
fragile. And bear in mind the financial plan still includes
three years of net zeros in labor savings.”  The Long Island Rail Road will provide increased service
during off-peak periods on the Ronkonkoma Branch and the
addition of rush-hour trains on the Montauk,  Long Beach  and Port
Jefferson branches, among other changes. The G subway line’s
temporary extension will be made permanent, and some bus service
will be restored and added.  Previous Cuts  The agency reduced service and cut lines in June 2010 as it
faced a $900 million deficit. The cuts, which saved almost $68
million annually and helped stabilize the agency’s finances,
angered riders and advocates for the poor and disabled. The
following year, fares and tolls rose 7.5 percent.  The MTA, which carries 8.5 million riders daily on the New
York City subway and bus system and Metro-North and Long Island
Rail Road commuter rail lines, passed a $12.7 billion budget in
December. According to its February financial plan, the agency
projects a $1 million cash balance for 2012 and an $80 million
cash balance for 2013, which will be used to reduce deficits of
as much as $204 million in 2014 and 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  