-- EU Parliament May Hold Hearings Into Libor-Rigging Scandal
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-19T12:23:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/eu-parliament-may-hold-hearings-into-libor-rigging-scandal.html
Bankers and regulators may be called
to appear at European Parliament hearings into the scandal
engulfing interbank lending rates as lawmakers seek to prevent
any repeat of such market manipulation.  Arlene McCarthy , the legislator leading the parliament’s
work on draft market-abuse rules, said hearings should shed
light on how bankers were able to rig lending rates and why
regulators failed to act. The move comes as the assembly and
 Michel Barnier , the 27 nation EU’s financial services chief,
prepare legal measures to punish illicit interest-rate fixing.  “The culture of the  banking industry  has not changed and
this culture was aided and abetted by regulatory failures,”
McCarthy, who sits on the parliament’s economic and monetary
affairs committee, said in an e-mailed statement today. “The
more information that comes to light on the extent and gravity
of this scandal the more urgent it is for the ECON committee to
call in the banks and regulators to answer for their failures
and manipulation.”  Confidence in the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
a benchmark for financial products valued at 360 trillion
dollars worldwide, has been dented by  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s admission
that it submitted false rates.  Robert Diamond , who resigned as
London-based Barclays’s CEO after the bank was fined 290 million
pounds ($456 million), told British lawmakers this month that
other banks also lowballed Libor submissions.  Market Abuse  Both the parliament and the European Commission, the EU’s
executive arm, are seeking to make abuse of interbank rates
punishable by criminal sanctions.  The commission will next week publish plans for how EU
market-abuse rules should be amended in response to the Libor
scandal, Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for Barnier, told
reporters today in Brussels.  “We’re going to propose that manipulation of these
reference indices should be penalized, should be deemed market
abuse,” De Rynck said. The measures, to be published July 25,
would amend a draft law presented by Barnier last year.  The plans would need approval from the parliament and by
national governments before they can take effect. Barnier is
seeking an agreement “by the end of the year,” De Rynck said.  The commission will also examine “how we can improve
governance and supervision” over how interbank rates are
calculated, he said. The matter should also be examined
collectively by regulators from the Group of 20 nations, he
said.  The parliament, which meets in Brussels and Strasbourg,
 France , brings together directly elected legislators from the
EU’s 27 nations to agree on laws for the bloc proposed by the
commission.  In advance of the commission move, the assembly this week
published suggested amendments to Barnier’s proposals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 