-- European Stocks Rise as Company Earnings Beat Forecasts
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-07-19T16:04:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/european-stock-futures-rise-as-earnings-beat-estimates.html
European stocks  rose to the highest
level since early April as companies reported quarterly earnings
that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  jumped 6.3 percent after posting second-
quarter results that beat forecasts. Remy Cointreau SA, France’s
second-biggest distiller, increased 6.2 percent on higher
revenue.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  surged 12 percent after sales of its flagship
smartphone beat analysts’ estimates.  The Stoxx 600 climbed 1.1 percent to 261.86 at the close of
trade. The gauge is heading for a seventh straight week of
gains, which would be the longest winning streak in more than
six years, as central banks cut  interest rates  and euro-area
leaders eased repayment rules for Spanish banks.  “Markets are focusing on the fact that earnings are still
strong,” said Theodore Krintas, managing director of Attica
Wealth Management in Athens. “What I see is a kind of aversion
to bonds generally. It seems that European markets are gaining
from the fact that extra liquidity is moving towards equities.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate” pace
in June and early July, the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday in
its Beige Book business survey, which is based on reports from
its 12 district banks.  Sales of previously owned U.S. homes unexpectedly declined
in June to an eight-month low, showing the recovery in
residential real estate will take time to develop.  Purchases decreased 5.4 percent to a 4.37 million annual
rate last month from a revised 4.62 million in May, figures from
the National Association of Realtors showed today in  Washington .
The median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 4.62 million pace.  U.S. Unemployment  More Americans than forecast filed first-time claims for
unemployment insurance payments last week as the volatility
induced by the annual auto-plant retooling period wore off.  Applications for  jobless benefits  increased by 34,000 to
386,000 in the week ended July 14, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast 365,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey .  Spain ’s five-year borrowing costs surged at a debt sale
today, while  France  paid record-low yields of less than 1
percent to sell similar securities.  Spanish five-year notes yielded an average 6.459 percent,
compared with 6.072 percent a month ago. French yields for the
same maturity fell to 0.86 percent, almost half of last month’s
level. Spain sold debt as lawmakers debated spending cuts in
Parliament, where police erected barriers and stood guard.  Spanish 10-year  bonds  extended their decline, pushing the
yield through 7 percent for the first time since July 10, after
the auction.  National Benchmarks  National benchmark indexes rose in all 18 western European
markets except Portugal and Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained
0.5 percent. France’s CAC 40 climbed 0.9 percent and Germany’s
DAX advanced 1.1 percent.  Akzo Nobel,  the world’s largest paintmaker , gained 6.3
percent to 43.05 euros after saying second-quarter earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization rose 8
percent to 593 million euros. Analysts predicted 569 million
euros.  Remy Cointreau (RCO)  climbed 6.2 percent to 93.24 euros, the
highest since at least Oct. 1989, after it reported increased
first-quarter sales that beat analyst expectations as consumers
in  Asia  and the U.S. bought more Remy Martin cognac. Pernod
Ricard SA, France’s biggest distiller, advanced 3.3 percent to
86.82 euros.  Nokia Jumps  Nokia surged 12 percent to 1.54 euros. The unprofitable
mobile-phone maker posted sales of its flagship smartphone that
topped some analysts’ estimates. Sales of the Lumia product
increased to 4 million units in the second quarter, Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia said.  Hermes International SCA (RMS)  gained 3.1 percent to 237.20 euros
after it reported second-quarter sales that beat analysts’
estimates and said first-half profit grew in line with revenue.  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , the Swiss producer of the Tracleer blood-
pressure drug, climbed 5.7 percent to 43.60 Swiss francs as it
raised its profit forecast for 2012 after reducing spending and
reporting second-quarter revenue that beat estimates.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  rose 1.7 percent to 56 francs. The company
reported second-quarter profit that declined less than analysts
forecast, helped by increasing sales of new products such as the
Gilenya treatment for multiple sclerosis and the Afinitor cancer
drug.  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) , the world’s second-biggest appliance maker,
rose 6.2 percent to 153.70 kronor as it reported second-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates after it succeeded in
pushing through higher prices in  North America .  Alstom Gains  Alstom SA (ALO)  added 3.1 percent to 26.72 euros, gaining for a
fifth day. The third-largest power equipment manufacturer
reported first-quarter orders that beat analysts’ estimates as
demand for trains and subways jumped and it booked a previously
announced turbine contract in  Israel .  Sandvik AB (SAND) , the world’s biggest maker of metal-cutting
tools, gained 6.1 percent to 92.15 kronor after it reported
second-quarter profit that beat estimates on strong
manufacturing demand in North and South America.  Afren Plc (AFR) , a U.K.-based explorer focused on Nigeria and
Iraq, surged 7.7 percent to 128 pence, the highest level in more
than two months, after an exploration well in the Iraqi region
of Kurdistan flowed oil.  Fortum Oyj (FUM1V) , Finland’s biggest utility, tumbled 8 percent to
13.44 euros after the company said it sees challenges in the
coming months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  