-- Ex-Barclays Leader Shows How to Come Clean
-- B y   R o b e r t   B o x w e l l
-- 2012-07-19T22:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/ex-barclays-leader-shows-how-to-come-clean.html
Last week’s testimony of Barclays
Plc Chairman Marcus Agius to a U.K. parliamentary committee
received less press than the earlier testimony of his former
chief executive officer,  Robert Diamond , but Agius’s performance
was more remarkable.  Diamond sounded evasive -- like the typical post-2008
American bank CEO, a now well-known character -- and ignored
parliamentary protocol, calling members of the committee by
their first names. Agius, in contrast, answered painful
questions about the Libor-fixing  scandal  thoroughly, paying
respect to the people’s representatives. When he criticized
himself, it was without spin. And, most remarkable of all, he
did this after having just resigned from the 322-year-old
institution that he had been trusted to steward but that had
strayed into shallow water.  Praising bankers isn’t a popular thing to do nowadays,
especially one from Barclays, but Agius’s appearance before the
committee is  worth watching  in its entirety. Ask me what you
wish and I will answer, he seemed to assure the lawmakers, and I
might tell you things you haven’t even asked because I think you
should understand everything. He spoke fully and frankly, as the
British say, with no defensiveness.  Under Pressure  When Conservative Member of Parliament David Ruffley tried
to corner Agius by asking whether a letter from the U.K.
Financial Services Authority was the most “damning” he had ever
received, he showed no disdain for the question. “I do not wish
to be pedantic,” he replied, “but I do not regard this as
damning. I regard this as a firm letter from our regulator.”  When Conservative MP Andrea Leadsom read a quote from Jerry
del Missier, then the chief operating officer, about making
Barclays “the industry benchmark for operational excellence and
control,” and asked, “Was that a joke?” Agius did not take the
bait, did not lose patience: “No, I do not think it was a joke,”
he said. He didn’t throw his colleagues under the bus, or blame
the times or anything else to help himself. By the time the
final questioner, Liberal Democrat MP John Thurso, remarked, “We
have met socially and I believe you to be a man of personal
honor, so I am sure you are finding this a very difficult time,”
Agius had earned the kind word.  The public’s revulsion of bankers today stems partly from
their refusal to take real responsibility for their
contributions to the global economic mess or to show gratitude
toward the taxpayers whose money carried them back from the
abyss. Last year, Diamond famously  remarked  to the same House of
Commons committee, “There was a period of remorse and apology
for banks -- that period needs to be over.” It’s not. In fact,
thanks to Libor, it won’t end any time soon.  A friend of mine, a banking CEO based in  Asia , told me last
week what everyone seems to know, but global bank CEOs won’t
admit: The too-big-to-fail institutions are also too big to
manage. Boards have to choose and trust the right leader, who in
turn must select the right deputies, and so on down the line.
What went on on the trading floor at Barclays wasn’t Marcus
Agius’s fault. Yet he was in charge and someone had to take
responsibility. The bank lost an honorable man -- all because 14
out of 140,000 employees behaved wrongly and because Diamond and
del Missier didn’t communicate clearly about an important
conversation Diamond had with  Paul Tucker , the deputy governor
of the  Bank of England .  In a lecture he gave last year, Diamond said, “Culture is
how people behave when no one is watching.” That’s pithy, but
how does it work exactly when there are 140,000 employees, many
of whom get paid based on the short-term profits they generate?  Accepting Blame  Agius wasn’t culpable (he made that point) and yet he was
responsible (he also made that point), all the way down to the
14 rogues. He stepped up and accepted that responsibility so
forthrightly, it’s hard to think his personal stock didn’t rise.
He never spoke the stilted words that so many seem to use
nowadays to evade responsibility: “I apologize and I accept full
responsibility.” Instead, he said, “I regret deeply what has
happened to Barclays and I have said in my resignation letter, I
am truly sorry.”  Agius’s disappointment must be profound. Barclays went
first to the authorities and “bent over backwards” cooperating,
in the words of the acting FSA enforcement chief Tracey McDermott, yet got little credit for it. Agius reminds us that
it isn’t fair to castigate all bankers. Yes, he will be
remembered as the chairman of a board that didn’t control its
senior executives, but rather than hit back under pressure, he
stood up and did the right thing. His testimony and his actions
should show bankers everywhere how to play a bad hand in these
tough times, when everyone is watching.  (Robert Boxwell is a director of the consulting company
Opera Advisors, based in  Kuala Lumpur . The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  California ’s model  maternity-
leave program  and on  remodeling austerity  in the U.K.; Stephen
L. Carter on  lying politicians ; William Pesek on the  loss of
faith  in bankers;  Virginia Postrel  on  economic segregation ;
 Amity Shlaes  on how states can  remake the tax system ;  Jonathan
Weil  on the Barclays  Libor-rigging settlement ; Nell Minow on the
U.S.’s budding shareholder revolt over  excessive corporate pay .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Boxwell at  Bob@RobertBoxwell.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  