-- Ex-Progress CEO Johnson Says Duke Had ‘Buyer’s Remorse’
-- B y   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-07-20T00:36:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/ex-progress-ceo-to-speak-for-first-time-on-duke-energy.html
Bill Johnson , the man who was chief
executive officer of  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK)  for hours after its $17.8
billion takeover of Progress Energy Inc., said he was fired
after Duke had “buyer’s remorse” about the deal.  Tensions flared between top executives about costs
associated with the transaction after the U.S. Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission demanded more concessions, Johnson
testified to the North Carolina Utility Commission in a hearing
today. Duke CEO  James Rogers  “explored every avenue to get out
of the merger,” he said.  “They had buyer’s remorse,” Johnson said. “They wanted
the merger, then they didn’t want it, then they couldn’t get out
of it, then they didn’t want to be stuck with me as the person
who dragged them to it.”  Johnson, the former CEO of Progress, made his first public
statements about the last-minute change as the state expands its
investigation.  North Carolina ’s attorney general is also probing
the CEO switch. Johnson, 58, was replaced by Rogers, who was
slated to become executive chairman after the takeover by
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Duke closed on July 2.  Duke looked at several ways to exit the merger agreement,
signed in January 2011, Johnson said. It evaluated structural
damage at Progress’s Crystal River nuclear plant in  Florida  as a
potential “material adverse event” that would give them an
excuse to back out.  Merger Deadline  It also sought to “run out the clock” on the deal by
proposing the formation of a regional transmission organization,
which would face state regulatory opposition, he said.  Duke would have owed Progress $675 million for terminating
the takeover without good reason, according to the merger
agreement. After July 8, either party could have walked away
from the deal without penalty.  The breakup fee was no longer applicable after shareholders
approved the merger in August 2011, according to the agreement,
 Tom Williams , a spokesman for Duke, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “We were having to drag them every step of the way,”
Johnson said. Rogers told Wall Street analysts earlier this year
that Duke would be better off if the merger wasn’t completed,
Johnson said.  Duke’s support for the merger is evidenced by the fact that
the deal was completed, Williams told reporters at the hearing
in Raleigh, North Carolina, today.  “If investor perception is that Rogers didn’t want to do
the deal, that raises red flags,” Tim Winter, who helps manage
$37.7 billion at Gabelli & Co., including 1.06 million Duke
shares, said today in an interview. “Investors in Duke want a
low risk, high quality return. You don’t want to lose sleep, and
these questions may cause us to stay up a little late.”  ‘Autocratic’ Leadership  Duke rose 5 cents to $66.12 at the close in  New York . The
stock has dropped 5.3 percent since Johnson’s departure was
announced.  The hearing today gave Johnson the chance to respond to
statements by Rogers, who told the agency on July 10 that Duke’s
board lost confidence in the incoming CEO because of his
“autocratic style” and his handling of Progress’s nuclear
fleet.  “I am not autocratic,” Johnson said. During his meetings
with Rogers, “we never talked about autocratic style, culture,
Progress financials, any of those.”  Shareholders have sued Charlotte, North Carolina-based
Duke’s directors for allegedly misleading them and damaging the
company’s reputation.  FERC Expense  Duke and Progress were surprised by FERC’s demands in
December for further steps to prevent the combined company from
manipulating power prices in parts of North Carolina and  South
Carolina , Johnson said. The companies in March proposed, and the
commission accepted, expansion of high-voltage lines into the
area.  The expense of new  power lines  to easing the federal
agency’s competition concerns was estimated to be about $110
million, according to a March 26 statement by the two companies.
That narrowed Duke’s already “thin” benefit from the takeover,
Johnson said today.  Johnson said his personal relationship with Rogers frayed
in December when the Duke CEO gave an interview suggesting the
company paid a lower price for Progress by promising Johnson the
top job.  Johnson said he remained committed to the deal and fought
Duke’s attempts to back out. Progress hired outside counsel to
ensure the deal was completed.  “We signed a merger agreement, we came up here and swore
we were going to do it,” he said. “It was in the best
interests of everybody, including the Progress customers,
shareholders and employees.”  Crippled Reactor  Johnson said he kept Duke informed about structural damage
at Progress’s crippled Florida reactor, shut since September
2009 for refueling and repairs. Damage during the repair was
discovered after the merger agreement was announced.  The “soap opera” is a distraction at a time when Rogers,
64, and Duke’s board should be focused on knitting together the
companies into the largest U.S. utility owner,  Paul Patterson , a
New York City-based analyst with Glenrock Associates LLC, said
in a July 17 phone interview. “The management team needs to get
on with the business of managing,” he said.  North Carolina law allows the commission to rescind, alter
or amend its June 29 order approving the merger.  “I don’t think it’s going to be unwound, that would be
really unprecedented,” Lewis Hay III, executive chairman of
 NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) , said at a July 17 Bloomberg Government
event in  Washington . “But we don’t have all the facts, and
we’ll just have to see how it plays out.”  Board Members  Former Progress director E. Marie McKee told the commission
today the board wouldn’t have considered the deal if it had
known a CEO change was planned. Johnson drew high marks for his
performance as Progress CEO and kept the board well informed,
McKee said. There was no indication prior to July 2 that Johnson
would be replaced.  “I didn’t know whether to cry or throw up,” McKee said
when Duke’s lead director Ann Maynard Gray made the motion to
replace him. Gray wouldn’t elaborate on the reason for the CEO
switch except to say that Johnson was “not a good fit,” McKee
said. All of the former Progress directors on the new Duke board
voted against the change.  Another former Progress board member, James Hyler Jr., also
testified today. Duke was not allowed to cross-examine Johnson
or the former Progress directors and was denied due process by
the commission, Burley Mitchell, outside legal counsel to Duke
Energy, said in an e-mailed statement.  The backlash to the CEO switch is unlikely to cost Rogers
his job, since Duke needs him to lead the integration effort,
 Hugh Wynne , a New York-based senior analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co., said in a phone interview.  On July 2, Johnson said he donned a new tie his wife had
given him for the occasion and met with senior management and
Rogers.  That afternoon, Rogers told him “‘We have to go to the
4:30 board meeting, we can’t be late for your election,”
Johnson said. “I’m elected CEO, handshakes, pats on the back,
congratulations all around. Two hours later, I’m gone. I had no
idea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Johnsson in Raleigh at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  