-- Textron Weighs Bid for Goldman’s Hawker Amid China Deal
-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2012-07-19T20:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/textron-may-bid-for-hawker-beechcraft-amid-china-deal.html
Textron Inc. (TXT)  is considering a bid
for part or all of Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the bankrupt
business-jet maker in exclusive talks with China’s Superior
Aviation Beijing Co.  “We have the same general view, these are assets in which
we have an interest, but it would have to be at a value that we
think is appropriate,” Textron Chief Executive Officer Scott Donnelly said on an earnings conference call with analysts
today.  Textron might bid on the whole company or just on Hawker
Beechcraft’s defense business, which isn’t part of the “pretty
high number” of $1.79 billion in the Superior Aviation deal
being worked out, Donnelly said.  A U.S. bankruptcy judge this week agreed to allow Hawker,
owned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Onex Corp., to negotiate
exclusively with Superior for 45 days, after which other
interested parties may try to top the deal in a court-supervised
auction.  “If it’s the right value and would be accretive for our
business, then absolutely we’re interested,” Donnelly said.  Hawker unveiled a plan earlier this month to sell itself to
Superior Aviation to avoid having to shut down its jet
operations and to better compete in the growing Chinese market.  Such a deal wouldn’t hurt Textron’s Cessna airplane unit,
which is better positioned in  China  than Wichita, Kansas-based
Hawker, said Cai von Rumohr, a Cowen & Co. analyst in  Boston  who
has an outperform rating on the stock.  China Production  Cessna, which is also based in Wichita, signed a
preliminary agreement earlier this year with Aviation Industry
Corp. of China, known as AVIC, and the city of  Chengdu  to open a
midsize business-jet factory.  Hawker would only be able to challenge Cessna if it moved
production to China, Von Rumohr wrote in a July 13 note.
Superior Aviation promised this week to “aggressively work” to
retain jobs and expand Hawker’s factories in the U.S.  Superior Aviation and its owners, including a company
controlled by the Beijing government, have “no meaningful
aerospace expertise,” Von Rumohr wrote.  Textron’s talks with AVIC are continuing, Donnelly said
today.  “If in fact the Chinese do buy Hawker, then it means
Hawker’s still in the market,” and competition would continue
as usual, he said. “I don’t think by any means we’ll be the
only guy to sell in China.”  Textron Forecast  Donnelly reiterated Textron’s full-year  forecast  even after
beating analysts’ estimates for second-quarter profit, basing
his conservatism on a weak outlook for Cessna. Earnings per
share from continuing operations in 2012 will be between $1.80
and $2, he said.  “There’s enough uncertainty out there in the economy and
the markets around the world it’s best to still anticipate it’s
going to be a tough back half,” he said. Cessna also faces
increased spending on research and development as it works on
newly announced jet models, he said.  Donnelly said he has a “reasonable” ability to forecast
profit at the Bell Helicopters and Industrial units.  At Cessna, where orders are placed and delivered in a
three- to six-month window, “I still worry about the back half
of the year in terms of what the market is going to look like,”
he said.  On Sidelines  Some potential customers in the U.S. are sitting on the
sidelines until they see the outcome of November’s presidential
and congressional elections and determine what that means for
changes to policy such as the U.S. government debt ceiling.  It’s also impossible to predict what Congress will do with
military spending cuts and how that might affect Textron
Systems, the defense unit, he said.  “Knowing where the cuts ultimately will come at this point
would be absolute guesswork.”  Adjusted earnings rose to  58 cents a share  in the three
months through June, from 29 cents a year earlier, the
Providence, Rhode Island-based company said in a statement.  The average of 15 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg
was 44 cents.  Net income  almost doubled to $172 million from $90
million. Sales gained 11 percent to $3.02 billion.  Textron surged 12 percent to $26.50 at the close in  New
York , the biggest daily jump since Jan. 25. The shares have
gained 43 percent this year.  Revenue and profit increased in the Cessna, Bell,
Industrial and Finance  units  and declined at Textron Systems.  Cessna delivered 49 Citation jets in the quarter, up from
38 a year earlier. The planemaker’s backlog continued its slide
and was down by $196 million at the end of June to $1.5 billion.  Bell delivered 47 commercial helicopters, more than twice
the 22 shipped a year ago, though it handed over two fewer
military aircraft. Bell has $6.7 billion in unfilled orders,
down $394 million from the end of March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at   jlangford2@bloomberg.net . 