-- Fed’s Stein Says Rate Cuts Have ‘Surprising’ Long-Term Impact
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-07-19T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/fed-s-stein-says-rate-cuts-have-surprising-long-term-impact.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Jeremy Stein  said shifts in U.S. central bank policy have an ability to
move long-term, inflation-adjusted interest rates by a greater
degree than academic theory would predict.  “Changes in the stance of monetary policy have a
surprisingly strong impact on distant forward real interest
rates,” Stein said in a working paper co-authored with Harvard
University professor Samuel Hanson and released by the Fed today
in Washington. The paper didn’t discuss the outlook for current
monetary policy or the economy.  The working paper contains Stein’s first comments on
monetary policy since he joined the Fed’s Board of Governors in
May. Stein, 51, a Harvard University professor, brings to the
central bank an academic expertise in monetary policy and
financial markets.  Stein and Hanson said in the paper that their findings are
surprising because standard macroeconomic models suggest that
changes in Fed policy should have no effect on inflation-
adjusted  interest rates  over a long horizon.  “It seems implausible to think that this horizon could be
anything close to 10 years” according to the standard economic
model used by the Fed, known as New Keynesian, the authors said.  One example of the effect, according to the paper, occurred
when Fed policy makers at their January meeting pledged to hold
interest rates near zero through at least late 2014. Inflation-
adjusted 10-year and 20-year interest rates declined by 0.05
percentage points and 0.09 percentage points on the
announcement.  The authors said the effect may be explained by the
behavior of bond investors seeking higher-yielding assets when
short-term interest rates fall. Future research on the topic may
help to better explain the Fed’s ability to boost the real
economy, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in  Washington  at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  