-- Fed Ignores Money Supply as ECB Uses New Tools: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-07-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/fed-ignores-money-supply-as-ecb-uses-new-tools-cutting-research.html
Monetary policy should be renamed,
according to Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis Vice President
and economist Daniel L. Thornton. The reason: the Fed and most
other central banks “pay virtually no attention to money.”  Focusing more on interest rates, which influence the price
of credit, rather than monetary aggregates makes the ability of
central bankers to affect borrowing costs more limited than they
think, said Thornton in a working paper released this week.  That conclusion strikes  Thornton  as “particularly useful”
at a time when central banks are focusing on unconventional
policies aimed at bringing down long-term bond yields. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  says the bank’s key interest rate
probably will stay near zero at least through late 2014. The Fed
on June 20 extended its so-called Operation Twist program
through the end of the year while saying a third round of asset
purchases may be needed.  Thornton, who joined the Fed in 1981, has queried the
central bank’s policies before. In a paper released in February,
he said the Fed’s quantitative easing program could spark higher
 money supply  growth that prompts an inflation surge.  In the latest study, he says that most modern policy makers
believe monetary policy works through the interest-rate channel,
so that by tweaking rates they can affect aggregate demand and
in turn economic activity and inflation. Beginning in the late
1980s, the Fed implemented policy by targeting a very short-term
 interest rate , known as the overnight federal funds rate.  The problem is that the effect is “significantly impaired
if policy actions” are not also transmitted through other
market rates, he said. That may be the case. As of 2008 the size
of the domestic credit market was about $50 trillion, meaning
the Fed supplied just 1.5 percent of all credit. There has also
been a deterioration in the link between the federal funds rate
and longer-term Treasury yields, he said.  It is therefore “hard to see how the Fed could
significantly affect the equilibrium level of  interest rates ,”
Thornton wrote. “The Fed’s ability to affect bond yields that
matter for economic activity using this procedure is
exaggerated.”  The lack of a bigger role for money in current policy
reflects a failure by officials to develop models that capture
its importance for an economy and for setting prices, as well as
the lack of a statistically strong relationship between money
measures and inflation, Thornton said.  * * *  Governments of the euro countries begin hurting their
economies with every euro of spending that pushes their debt
beyond 95 percent of gross domestic product, say European
Central Bank researchers.  In a study of the relationship between public debt and
economic growth in a dozen euro nations between 1990 and 2010,
Anja Baum, Cristina Checherita-Westphal and Philipp Rother found
increasing public debt for short periods can boost expansion.
The effect ends when debt reaches about 67 percent of GDP and
becomes negative as debt approaches 95 percent of GDP.  The paper serves as a rejoinder to economists who have
argued cash-strapped economies with debt as high as 160 percent
of GDP in  Greece  should still try to stimulate their way out of
recession.  “The short-term economic stimulus from additional debt
decreases drastically when the initial debt level is high and
might even become negative,” the authors said in a working
paper released this month. “In light of the attempt to defend
increasing debt with economic stimulus reasons, our results are
supportive only if the initial debt level is below a certain
threshold.”  Belgium , Ireland, Greece,  Italy  and  Portugal  are all
projected by the  European Commission  to run debt beyond the 95
percent level this year.  * * *  The  Japanese economy’s  lost decades, in which growth
averaged just 0.75 percent a year in the past 20 years, were in
part to blame on banks using their balance sheets to buy
 government bonds  rather than to lend, according to the country’s
central bank.  The need to rid themselves of toxic debt and meet higher
 capital requirements  limited the risk-taking of banks. They were
encouraged to tilt “their  asset allocation  toward government
bonds, leading to a decline in output and inflation,” said  Bank
of Japan  economists Kosuke Aoki and Nao Sudo in a  paper 
published this month.  They show how the amount of outstanding government bonds
grew more quickly than the economy in the 1990s and 2000s and
banks stepped up their accumulation of such assets rather than
lend to consumers and companies.  “As a result, an accumulation of government bonds and
deflation coexist in the economy,” Aoki and Sudo said.  * * *  The global financial crisis, which began five years ago
with a freeze in credit markets, has led to a “loss in the
effectiveness” of standard  monetary policy  in  Europe , according
to a  report  published by the Bundesbank this month.  While before the crisis money market rates as measured by
so-called Euribor showed significant responses to shifts in
monetary policy expectations, the relationship has weakened
since August 2007, said Bundesbank economist Puriya Abbassi and
Tobias Linzert of the ECB. Higher liquidity and more uncertainty
about policy are cited as reasons.  The results suggest that the ECB’s October 2008 shift
toward non-standard policies, such as unlimited loans for banks,
were effective in addressing some of the disruptions, the
authors said. Their estimates showed such policies helped lower
Euribor rates by more than 80 basis points.  “These findings show that central banks have effective
tools at hand to conduct monetary policy in times of crisis,”
they concluded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  