-- FedEx Air-Cargo Profit Goal Threatened by Wait for Jets
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-07-19T20:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/fedex-profit-from-air-cargo-threatened-by-delayed-jets.html
FedEx Corp.’s (FDX)  plan to boost air
cargo profit margins to 10 percent or more, partly by replacing
junkyard-ready jets with more efficient models, will be
challenged by a yearlong wait for the first of the new planes.  FedEx is refreshing its fleet with  Boeing Co. (BA)  767s that
list for about $8 billion after the Express unit’s operating
margins dropped about half in five years. More than 15 percent
of the shipper’s 660 aircraft are models last built in the
1980s, and Chief Executive Officer  Fred Smith  said upgrading is
a “very big part of achieving double-digit margins.”  While the company can begin to revise routes and improve
its network now, “many of the moves that will result in major
cost savings will be dependent on the arrival of the 767s,”
said David Vernon, a New York-based analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. “They are going to be a little bit hamstrung by
the delivery of those aircraft.”  Driving profit margin growth at Express is important since
it accounted for more than 60 percent of the  Memphis , Tennessee-
based company’s $42.7 billion in sales in fiscal 2012. The
margin that year shrank to  4.8 percent  from 8.8 percent in 2007
as higher fuel and maintenance expenses pushed up costs to fly
older aircraft.  FedEx plans to disclose more details later this year on a
revamp that will take advantage of its new planes. Other options
for achieving double-digit margins are capturing the most
profitable aspects of international business, improving yields
and reducing costs, said  Jess Bunn , a company spokesman.  Boeing Backlog  “During challenging times in the past, FedEx has found
ways to operate more efficiently, and that will be a great
benefit as our company moves forward,” he said in an e-mailed
statement.  FedEx gained 0.1 percent to $92.79 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have risen 11 percent this year.  The company has said it will receive the first three of its
46 767s in fiscal 2014 with the remainder arriving through 2019.
The aircraft will replace Boeing MD-10s, last made in  1989 , as
well as Airbus SAS A310s.  Boeing had a 78-order  backlog  for 767s as of the end of
June and builds about two of the jets a month at its wide-body
plane factory in Everett,  Washington . The 767s can be used for
long-haul domestic or international flights, while FedEx
operates the second-hand Boeing 757s that it began adding in
2007 primarily on shorter U.S. routes.  While the 757s have been out of production since 2005,
they’re replacing FedEx’s Boeing 727s, which are even older.
FedEx has 41 of the three-engine jets last that ended production
 in 1984 , the most still in use by any passenger or freight
carrier. Competitor  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  got rid of the
last of its 727s by the end of 2008, according to regulatory
filings.  Aging Planes  The 727 costs up to $3,500 more per hour to operate than
the larger 757, and heavy maintenance checks every couple of
years probably cost FedEx several million dollars per jet,
Vernon said.  The aircraft require a three-member crew, a pilot, co-pilot
and flight engineer, instead of the two people on more-modern
jets. They have no resale value,  Kevin Sterling , an analyst at
BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,  Virginia , said in a telephone
interview.  “Who’s in the market for a 727?” he asked. “No one. The
only thing they are good for is the engine. FedEx might just
sell the engines and park the planes in the desert.”  The engines are probably worth $1 million each or less, he
said.  Another driver in FedEx’s fleet upgrade is a surge in the
past three years in  jet-fuel prices , which remain 60 percent
higher than a 2010 low after a climb this year to $3.01 a gallon
yesterday.  Fuel Efficiency  FedEx spent $3.9 billion on  jet fuel  in fiscal 2012,
compared with $3.2 billion in fiscal 2011 and $2.3 billion in
2010, according to company filings.  “The fuel efficiency alone will probably save 17 to 20
percent for the newer planes versus the older planes,” Sterling
said. “If they can get other planes out back in service I think
it’s highly likely they will speed the retirements. It’s a
balancing act. They have to make sure they don’t disrupt
service.”  Restructuring the Express network will help FedEx grapple
with declines in airborne shipping as customers seek cheaper
alternatives amid tepid economic growth.  An economic bellwether because it carries everything from
mobile devices to pharmaceuticals, FedEx lowered its forecast
for U.S. growth to 2.2 percent for this fiscal year, down from
2.3 percent in December.  Stronger Growth  “For our aspirational goals we needed a little bit
stronger growth than what we’ve had,” Chief Financial Officer
Alan Graf said on a June 19 earnings call. “We now realize
we’ve got to adjust the networks that we built for higher gross
domestic product growth than we’re actually seeing.”  FedEx retired 24 jets last month to cut capacity in its
domestic Express business. Taking them out of service added to
five jets grounded last quarter and planned retirements of 21
more in the company’s 2013 fiscal year.  The company is “focusing more on replacing 727s as a
domestic route structure,”  David Campbell , an analyst at
Thompson Davis & Co. in Richmond, Virginia, said in an
interview. “The focus right now is on cutting the cost of the
domestic system and this is one way to do it without increasing
 capital expenditures .”  FedEx is adding fewer 757 jets than the number of 727s it’s
retiring, so it will have to remap its network to accommodate a
smaller fleet made up of bigger planes that can carry more per
flight.  The shipping company may have to collapse regional hubs,
restructure air routes, reassign aircraft to different markets,
add and remove trucks in some cities and consolidate package
stations, Vernon said.  “The biggest risk is not to drop the ball and lose any
customer efficiency,” Sterling said. “If they are doing this
restructuring and take out too many planes too fast and cut back
service levels, customers will be upset and go to” rivals such
as Atlanta-based UPS and  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL express and
freight business.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  