-- Feeding Frenzy Seen If Wall Street Sues Itself Over Libor
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-07-19T23:19:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/feeding-frenzy-seen-if-wall-street-sues-itself-over-libor.html
Wall Street, grappling with mounting
regulatory probes and investor claims over alleged interest-rate
manipulation, may face yet another formidable foe: Itself.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS)  are among
financial firms that may bring lawsuits against their biggest
rivals as regulators on three continents examine whether other
banks manipulated the London interbank offered rate, known as
Libor, said Bradley Hintz, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. Even if Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley forgo claims on
their own behalf, they oversee money-market funds that may be
required to pursue restitution for injured clients, he said.  Because Libor is based on submissions from only some of the
world’s largest banks, the probes threaten to pit firms
uninvolved in setting the rate against any implicated in its
manipulation, Hintz said. Libor serves as a benchmark for at
least $360 trillion in securities.  “This will be a feeding frenzy of sharks,” said Hintz,
who has served as treasurer of Morgan Stanley and chief
financial officer of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. “We’re going
to have Wall Street suing Wall Street.”  Libor and similar rates are derived by surveying a group of
banks daily. Participating firms are asked how much it would
cost them to borrow from one another for 15 different periods in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published.  Credit Crisis  Regulators are looking at whether banks made submissions
that understated funding costs during the credit crisis or if
traders at the firms influenced Libor to boost profits.  A probe by U.K. and U.S. authorities already has cost
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  a record 290 million-pound ($456 million) fine and
led to the ouster of Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond , 60.
Traders at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  are being examined for possible links to a former
Barclays employee, a person with knowledge of the matter said.
 UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CS)  are among at least a dozen banks to disclose inquiries.  Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley weren’t on the list of
banks contributing to Libor. Hintz asked Goldman Sachs Chief
Financial Officer David Viniar on a June 17 conference call
whether his firm would view itself as an “aggrieved market
participant” if rivals fixed the rate.  ‘Cordial Relationships’  “We’re going to watch this for a while,” said Viniar, 57,
without elaborating. “Let’s just say we’re not a provider of
Libor, and we’ll just leave it at that.”  Mary Claire Delaney, a spokeswoman for Morgan Stanley, and
Goldman Sachs’s  Michael DuVally  declined to comment on whether
their New York-based firms may bring claims. Goldman Sachs, led
by CEO Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, and Morgan Stanley, run by CEO
 James Gorman , 54, are the fifth- and sixth-biggest U.S. banks by
assets, respectively.  Non-Libor banks could join in class-action lawsuits filed
on behalf of a group of companies claiming to be hurt by the
rate’s manipulation, Hintz said. Still, they probably wouldn’t
be the lead plaintiffs and may settle out of court to maintain
“cordial relationships,” he said.  Goldman Sachs managed  $209 billion  in money-market funds at
the end of June, and Morgan Stanley managed about  $75 billion  at
the end of March, regulatory filings show. Investment funds may
be obligated to seek compensation if they believe a manipulated
Libor rate harmed investors’ returns, Hintz said.  ‘Negative Headlines’  Morgan Stanley analysts including  Betsy Graseck  assume
banks won’t sue as that would “exacerbate negative headlines
for the overall industry,” according to a July 11 note. Costs
from other claims arising from the probe for 11 Libor banks --
such as Barclays, Bank of America Corp., Citigroup and JPMorgan
-- could total $7.8 billion, the analysts estimated.  Plaintiffs would face difficulties, such as proving how
much money they lost, said  Roy Smith , a finance professor at New
York University’s Stern School of Business and a former Goldman
Sachs partner. Because Libor rates excluded some of the highest
and lowest estimates, it may be hard to calculate which firms
were culpable for influencing the outcome, he said.  Regulators may also have known that banks were fixing Libor
and neglected to stop it, which could make a court case yet more
complex, Smith said. U.K. lawmakers have been questioning Bank
of England Governor  Mervyn King  and his deputy  Paul Tucker  on
their roles in the scandal. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York
last week released documents showing it knew Barclays
underreported rates and recommended changes to Libor.  ‘Good Luck’  “It makes it even more complicated when the regulators
appear to have known about it and not have objected to it, which
means it wasn’t illegal,” Smith said. “All I can say is, ‘Good
luck with your lawsuit.’”  Banks such as Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley would prefer
to settle quietly out of court and may forgo claims altogether
unless additional firms are fined like Barclays, said James Cox,
a securities law professor at  Duke University  in Durham, North
Carolina.  A series of regulatory cases would make it easier for non-
Libor firms to support their case, while also increasing the
potential payouts, he said.  “In the meantime, everyone’s preparing for war,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  