-- Ferguson Tells Friends Man. United Will Get Van Persie: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-19T06:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/ferguson-tells-friends-man-united-will-get-van-persie-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Race for Robin  Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  told friends that
his team will beat Manchester City and Juventus in the race to
sign Arsenal striker  Robin van Persie  for 20 million pounds
($31.3 million), the  Daily Mirror reported .  With a number of bids already made for  van Persie , Arsenal
is keen to decide his future before leaving this weekend for a
pre-season tour of  Asia , the newspaper added.  Modric Pricetag  Tottenham Hotspur manager Andre Villas-Boas told Luka Modric that he will not be sold to Real Madrid or any other club
unless Spurs’ 35 million-pound asking price is met, the  Daily
Telegraph reported .  “There has been continuous interest from three different
clubs in Luka,” the newspaper cited Villas-Boas as saying.
“But it is important for Tottenham to hold onto their rights.
His situation will continue as it is until the price is right.”  Talks Reopened  Chelsea reopened talks with Marseille about signing Spanish
defender Cesar Azpilicueta, who would cost 7 million pounds, the
 Daily Mail reported .  The Blues made an initial inquiry in January for the 22-
year-old Azpilicueta, who is part of  Spain ’s Olympic squad, the
newspaper added.  Chelsea Clear-out  Chelsea will try to sell Florent Malouda,  Yossi Benayoun 
and Gael Kakuta to make room for new signings, the  Sun reported .  Chelsea wants about 5 million pounds for Malouda, who has
12 months of his contract to run and had been seeking a release
as a free agent, the newspaper said. Romelu Lukaku, Kevin De
Bruyne and Josh McEachran are likely to be loaned out because
Chelsea can only name a 25-man squad, the newspaper added.  Carroll Crunch  Liverpool striker Andy Carroll, who’s been linked with
Newcastle, Fulham and Aston Villa, wants his future resolved in
the next week, the  Mirror reported .  Liverpool manager  Brendan Rodgers  believes a loan spell may
be valuable to both club and player and would prefer to send
Carroll to AC Milan, the newspaper said. If the Milan loan
doesn’t happen, the Reds want to sell him, the Mirror added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  