-- French Energy Regulator Says 2% Gas Price Increase Not Enough
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-07-19T09:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/french-energy-regulator-says-2-gas-price-increase-not-enough.html
France ’s 2 percent increase in
regulated natural- gas prices  falls short of GDF Suez SA’s costs
and could hinder competition in the domestic market, according
to the energy regulator.  The Commission de Regulation de l’Energie said natural gas
prices should be increased by 7.3 percent on Aug. 1, including a
4.1 percent rise for supply and 3.2 percent for other costs,
based on a ruling published today in France’s Journal Officiel.
The regulator’s opinion was pubished alongside the government’s
decision on a 2 percent increase.  The regulator said the government’s decision goes against
rules that say the former natural-gas monopoly must be allowed
to cover its costs.  The disparity between GDF Suez’s cost of supplying the
French market and the regulated rates it’s allowed to charge
from Aug. 1 is the latest in a long-running battle between the
utility and the government, which holds a 35 percent stake.  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  last year took the previous government to court and won
over a tariff freeze that was reversed.  New legal challenges to the 2 percent increase are “a risk
that we are taking and we will assume because we want a fresh
start,” French Environment and Energy Minister Delphine Batho
said earlier this week in an interview.  Looking ahead, the regulator said GDF Suez’s natural-gas
supply costs could drop Oct. 1, although this doesn’t justify
raising regulated rates by 2 percent rate on Aug. 1, the
regulator said today. GDF Suez’s cost of supply is calculated
using a formula that takes into account oil and natural-gas
prices and currency fluctuations  “Insufficient coverage of GDF Suez’s cost of supply by
regulated rates could disrupt the natural gas market,” the
regulator said today.  Regulated rates that are too low are an entry barrier to
alternative suppliers to the market and a “lack of visibility”
on rates won’t encourage new market participants, it said in the
ruling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  