-- MTG Chief Says No Longer Interested in Telenor’s Canal Digital
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-07-19T14:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/mtg-chief-says-no-longer-interested-in-telenor-s-canal-digital.html
Modern Times Group AB (MTGA) , the Swedish
broadcaster with operations in 35 countries, is no longer
interested in acquiring or merging its Nordic satellite platform
with  Telenor ASA’s (TEL)  Canal Digital, Chief Executive Officer Hans- Holger Albrecht said.  “To be fair we don’t see any opportunities at this stage
in  Scandinavia ,” Albrecht said in a phone interview today. “We
tried probably everything in the last 10 years” to make a deal
with Telenor happen, he said.  Canal Digital operates a multiplatform television service
in the Nordic region with close to 1 million households as
customers, according to its website, while MTG’s Viasat
Broadcasting has more than a million premium pay-TV subscribers
in the Nordics through satellite or third-party networks,
according to today’s second-quarter earnings statement.  Instead, Albrecht would prefer to buy assets in markets
such as  Africa  and eastern  Europe  and grow MTG’s Viaplay online
pay-TV service, which sells streamed content to subscribers, he
said.  “What I can sense is that the industry is changing faster
now and more fundamentally so new platforms like Viaplay are the
key future trend, so in my opinion Telenor has missed the
opportunity to do something with the asset and we would rather
move on to other fields,” the CEO said.  Prime Suspects  Albrecht said MTG will consider entering new markets with
one of the “prime suspects” being Africa, “but if the
opportunities are for free or pay TV in eastern Europe we’re
going to look at those as well.”  The Swedish broadcaster today reported second-quarter net
income of 423 million kronor ($61 million), 6.8 percent lower
than a year earlier, and compared with the average in a
Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts of 436 million kronor.  MTG  rose  as much as 3 percent to 332.9 kronor, its highest
intraday price since May 4, and was up 2.8 percent to 332.2
kronor as of 3:05 p.m. in the Swedish capital.  Albrecht said the outlook for the remainder the year is for
continued TV advertising market growth in Sweden and  Norway ,
while in Denmark the picture is less clear.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in Stockholm at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  