-- Heating Oil Rises to Nine-Week High on Stimulus Hopes, Mideast
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-07-19T20:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/gasoline-advances-as-jobless-claim-jump-increases-stimulus-bets.html
Heating oil climbed to a nine-week
high on concern that Middle East stress will affect oil supplies
and on speculation that the  Federal Reserve  will add more
stimulus to boost the economy.  Futures gained along with crude as tensions increased
between  Israel  and  Iran  over the Islamic Republic’s nuclear
program after attacks on tourists in  Bulgaria . A jump in weekly
U.S. jobless claims raised expectations the Fed may institute a
third round of asset purchases, known as quantitative easing or
QE3, that may help support fuel demand.  “Geopolitical risk is up a little bit, the Iran thing
still lurks large in the background,” said Jason Schenker,
president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based
energy consultant. “I can’t believe people are still talking
about QE3. Expanding the Fed’s balance sheet carries significant
long-term risk.”  August-delivery heating oil increased 6.94 cents, or 2.4
percent, to $2.947 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the highest settlement since May 11. It was the seventh
consecutive gain, the longest stretch of increases since Aug.
31. Prices are up 0.4 percent this year.  Heating oil, which traded at a premium to gasoline for the
first time since July 5, has risen all but four days since
reaching a year-to-date low of $2.5253 on June 21, gaining 17
percent.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Lebanon’s
Iranian-backed Hezbollah organization carried out the attack
that killed at least five Israeli tourists in Bulgaria. Iranian
Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  accused Israel of
“delusive” accusations.  Geopolitical Concerns  “It certainly looked like the market was boosted by
geopolitical concerns regarding Iran, with the bombing in
Bulgaria added,” said  Andrew Lebow , a senior vice president at
Jefferies Bache LLC in New York. “It at least spurred some
short covering, some fresh buying.”  In Syria, security forces loyal to President Bashar al-
Assad pounded rebel hideouts in Damascus today in retaliation
for the blast that killed three top anti-insurgency leaders.  Crude oil for August delivery rose $2.79, or 3.1 percent,
to $92.66 a barrel on the Nymex, the highest settlement since
May 16. Brent oil for September settlement advanced $2.64 to
$107.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange.  Labor Department figures showed applications for  jobless
benefits  rose by 34,000, or 9.7 percent, to 386,000, the biggest
percentage increase since the week ended Jan. 25, 2008. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in two days of testimony before
Congress this week, kept open the possibility of a third round
of asset purchases.  Federal Reserve  The Fed has purchased $2.3 billion of mortgage and Treasury
debt in two separate rounds of asset purchases intended to
stimulate the economy. Bernanke did not give specific
indications in his testimony of when and how the Fed would act
to boost the economy.  “Bernanke made it clear they’re prepared to do something
if things get bad,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at
Price Futures Group in  Chicago . “Add to that the possibility
allegedly that Iran may have been behind the bombing in
Bulgaria, and the instability in  Syria  adds to tensions in the
region.”  August-delivery gasoline gained 5.55 cents, or 1.9 percent,
to $2.9389 a gallon on the exchange, the highest settlement
since May 21.  Gulf Coast  Gasoline lagged behind heating oil and crude as inventories
of the motor fuel on the  Gulf Coast , the largest U.S. refining
region, are climbing. Padd 3 gasoline stockpiles rose to a 10-
week high as of July 13, according to Energy Department data
released yesterday.  “The cash market in the Gulf Coast has really come off
hard,” Lebow said.  Gulf Coast 87-octane  gasoline  was at a 20-cent discount to
Nymex futures yesterday, the weakest level since May 22. The
discount narrowed 0.75 cent to 19.25 cents at 2:42 p.m. today
 New York  time, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Regular  gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide,
increased 1.1 cents to $3.437 a gallon, according to AAA. Prices
are the highest since June 21 after rising every day but two
since July 1, gaining 11.1 cents. Gasoline reached a year-to-
date high of $3.936 on April 4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  