-- German Lawmakers Win Merkel Government Assurances on Spain Aid
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-07-19T12:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/german-lawmakers-win-merkel-government-assurances-on-spain-aid.html
German coalition lawmakers won
assurances from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government that they
will be consulted on every step of the Spanish bank rescue to
ensure that  Spain  remains liable for the aid awarded.  “The German parliament will be involved all the way,”
 Michael Fuchs , deputy parliamentary leader of Merkel’s Christian
Democratic Union party, said in an interview in Berlin today.
“We want to make sure there are no tricks,” that there is no
“circumventing state liability.”  Lawmakers are meeting in Berlin for a special session of
the lower house on aid for Spain that forced parliamentarians to
interrupt their summer break. While they are poised to vote in
favor of the rescue, many demanded reassurances that German
taxpayers’ money will be channeled via the Spanish government
and not go directly to banks themselves.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who will open the
debate at 2:30 p.m. Berlin time, held talks on the aid with
coalition lawmakers today after briefing members of the Budget
Committee last night.  “Schaeuble reassured us today that there will be no
possibility to sidestep the liability issue in the process of
transferring Spanish bank rescue aid” from the temporary rescue
fund to the permanent European Stability Mechanism, Fuchs said.  Chancellor’s Majority  Merkel’s coalition controls 330 of the 620 seats in the
lower house of parliament, the Bundestag. She needs 311 of those
votes for the so-called chancellor’s majority she failed to
secure twice this year, when parliament backed the second aid
program for  Greece  and when it approved the ESM. Both measures
passed with support from the opposition.  Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  and their Christian Social
Union Bavarian sister party held a test vote on the Spanish
rescue today,  Volker Kauder , the bloc’s floor leader, told
reporters. With just 12 dissenters, the bill is sure to pass, he
said.  Parliament will have to vote again on details of the
changeover from the current rescue fund, the European Financial
Stability Facility, to the planned permanent fund, Hans Michelbach, a senior CSU lawmaker, told reporters.  Coalition lawmakers pressed Merkel’s government to ensure
that parliament will have a right to veto rule changes to the
EFSF that would allow direct bank aid, Michelbach said. “That
means parliament will have to take a decision again on the new
modalities at the changeover to the ESM,” he said.  “What was important for us is that the Spanish state
accepts liability,” Michelbach said. “There isn’t any direct
bank aid. Disbursements are made to the bank rescue fund, but
it’s very clear and has been clarified in the discussion that
the Spanish state carries final liability.”  While lawmakers are poised to approve aid to recapitalize
Spanish banks, they aren’t paving the way for broader debt-
sharing across the euro region, Michelbach said.  “Critics say these are the first steps toward a
mutualization of European bank rescues,” Michelbach said. “I
don’t see it that way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  