-- Golf, Soccer Meet as Adidas Brings Samba Shoes to the Course
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-19T13:55:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/golf-soccer-meet-as-adidas-brings-samba-shoes-to-the-course.html
One of the world’s best-known soccer
shoes has crossed over to the golf course.  Adidas AG introduced the Samba in February, the latest in
non-traditional golf shoes. It’s based on the soccer training
shoe of the same name, which has been one of the company’s
biggest sellers for over 60 years.  “Golf footwear is changing and it’s changing quick,”
Grant Knudson, Global Product Marketing Manager of Adidas Golf
Footwear, said in a telephone interview. “What was viewed as a
golf shoe two, three, four years ago is completely different
today.”  The Samba debuted in 1950 as an indoor soccer training shoe
with rubber soles that provide grip on hard surfaces. It’s made
the crossover to an everyday shoe and, with about 35 million
sold worldwide, is Adidas’s second-most popular behind the Stan Smith model tennis shoe.  Golf shoes that look as though they belong in the gym have
become more visible on the professional tours. Not only do
players want to be comfortable as they walk 18 holes, they’re
also looking for a bit more style than you get with the dress-
style golf shoes of yesterday.  “Everybody wants to go with comfort,”  Dustin Johnson , who
wears the Samba in practice rounds, said in an interview
yesterday at the British Open at Royal Lytham & St. Annes in
Lancashire,  England . “And they look good and they work. Beats
the old heavy classics.”  Spikes Added  The golf Samba looks similar to its soccer namesake, with
the addition of spikes attached to the bottom to provide
traction on the course.  Johnson, a paid endorser of Taylormade-Adidas, wears
Adidas’s Tour 360 shoes in tournaments, but said he may consider
the Samba in the future.  “They perform very well,” said Johnson, who also wears
the soccer shoes off the course. “They’re stable, they’ve got a
lot of grip.”  Knudson said Adidas expects to produce more than 150,000
pairs of Samba shoes worldwide in 2012 and golfers have taken to
them.  “They’ve been flying off the shelf,” Alex Bradley, who
works at the American Golf store at Broadgate in  London , said in
an interview. “It’s a new innovative design that people are
interested in trying. It appeals to a lot of people.”  Even to the professionals. South African Rory Sabbatini
wears Samba full-time on the U.S.  PGA Tour , while England’s
 Justin Rose  has used them in practice rounds.  ‘Good Traction’  “I like the look of them and they’re extremely comfortable
to wear,” Sabbatini, who also wears the soccer shoe, said in an
interview at last weekend’s John Deere Classic. “They give you
good feel in regard to the ground, good traction. The Sambas
overall perform very well for me.”  The $99 shoe comes in several colors including the original
soccer model’s black with Adidas’s trademark three white
stripes.  The company has also unveiled a limited-edition Majors
Collection, priced at $120, in honor of the four Grand Slam
tournaments, producing 1,950 individually numbered pairs in
honor of the year the Samba was introduced.  The model for this week’s  British Open  comes in blue, white
and red and was inspired by the Union Jack flag.  Masters Green  The shoes for the Masters, a combination of Augusta
National’s traditional green with yellow, and U.S. Open in red,
white and blue, both sold out. The U.S. PGA Championship
edition, in light blue and yellow to represent the beach at this
year’s site, Kiawah Island,  South Carolina , will be available
this month.  The popularity of the Samba name makes it attractive to
both the professional and the high-handicapper, according to
Knudson.  “It’s such an iconic shoe for us,” he said. “We really
wanted to create a golf shoe that made them comfortable on the
golf course. From a styling standpoint it’s definitely catering
toward the masses of the golfing population, but has the
performance of a tour-level shoe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 