-- Google Sales Surge on Motorola Mobility, Growth in Ad Clicks
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-07-20T20:13:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/google-revenue-surges-35-percent-as-motorola-deal-boosts-results.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , owner of the world’s
most popular search engine, said second-quarter revenue surged
35 percent, helped by its acquisition of Motorola Mobility
Holdings and as more users clicked on advertisements.  Including Motorola Mobility, sales were $12.2 billion,
compared with $9.03 billion a year earlier, the  Mountain View ,
California-based company said on its  website  yesterday. Profit
before some costs was $10.12 a share. Google’s $12.5 billion
acquisition of Motorola Mobility closed in May.  Google has been using ads on mobile devices and the YouTube
video site to bolster revenue, and it continues to benefit from
user queries on its home page. The company controls more than
two-thirds of the U.S. search market, according to  ComScore
Inc. , and its sales are tied to the number of times Web surfers
click on ads that run on its pages and partner sites. The number
of such clicks rose 42 percent last quarter.  “The fact that click volume was up 42 percent was quite
impressive,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. in San Francisco. “That’s big growth, obviously
influenced by mobile devices. Expectations were low.”  Excluding revenue passed on to partner sites and the impact
of Motorola Mobility, second-quarter sales were $8.36 billion.
On that basis, analysts were projecting sales of $8.39 billion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Relief Rally’  Google shares  rose 3 percent to $610.82 at the close in New
York, paring the decline for this year to 5.4 percent.  The shares may have received a bit of a “relief rally” as
Google delivered higher revenue than some of the more
pessimistic estimates, said  Clayton Moran , a  Delray Beach ,
Florida-based analyst at Benchmark Co. Moran had estimated
adjusted sales of $8.26 billion.  “The results were better than feared,” he said. “That’s
the bottom line.”  Motorola Mobility contributed revenue of $1.25 billion for
the period. Total net income rose to $2.79 billion, or $8.42 a
share, from $2.51 billion, or $7.68 a share, a year earlier.  While total clicks on ads increased, the average cost per
click in the second quarter declined 16 percent from a year
earlier, and was up 1 percent from the prior period.  Currency Exchange  The average cost per click was dragged down by currency
exchange rates, including the strengthening dollar against the
euro, said Chief Financial Officer Patrick Pichette during a
call with analysts. Had foreign exchange rates remained constant
from a year earlier, Google’s revenue in the second quarter
would have been $350 million higher.  The company saw relative strength in the U.S.,  Canada  and
 Asia . Southern Europe, including Spain, was hampered by a weak
economy, said  Nikesh Arora , a Google senior vice president.
Still, northern Europe performed better, with particular
strength in the U.K., he said on the call.  “Our business had a very strong quarter,” he said.  As Google had expected, Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page 
didn’t join yesterday’s call because he lost his voice. Arora
said Page continues to run the company and is involved in
strategic decisions.  Motorola Mobility  Google’s purchase of Motorola Mobility shored up its patent
portfolio to better combat legal challenges against its Android
mobile software. Motorola Mobility, which has more than 17,000
patents, also helps Google enter the hardware market to compete
more directly with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and others.  Android software, which Google offers at no cost to device
makers, leads the smartphone market. Google-powered devices
accounted for 56 percent of global sales in the first three
months of the year, compared with 23 percent for Apple’s iPhone,
according to Gartner Inc.  Google is using smartphones to help drive mobile
advertising, a new area of growth. Users may see ads when they
look at an application or query Google’s search engine. The
company’s search service grabbed 67 percent of the U.S. market
last month, more than twice the share held by  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  combined, according to  ComScore .  “Search is clearly still the engine of growth here,” said
Kerry Rice, a San Francisco-based analyst at Needham & Co.
“Search, in my mind, is the best return on your investment for
 Internet advertising  that exists today.”  The company is also pushing into display advertising, which
includes graphical banner ads, on desktops. Google is expected
to grab 16.5 percent of the U.S. market this year, trailing No.
1  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which should have 16.8 percent, according to
EMarketer Inc. Google will assume the top spot next year with a
20 percent share, EMarketer projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  