-- Gorman to Shrink Morgan Stanley’s Fixed-Income Business
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-08-03T15:09:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/gorman-to-shrink-morgan-stanley-s-fixed-income-business.html
(Corrects description of product unit that may be reduced
in fifth paragraph of story published July 19.)  James Gorman  vowed to shrink Morgan
Stanley’s  fixed-income  division after that business posted the
largest drop in revenue among Wall Street’s biggest banks.  So-called risk-weighted assets in the unit have already
been cut 15 percent in the past nine months, Gorman, the firm’s
54-year-old chief executive officer, said on a conference call
with analysts today. The reduction will reach 25 percent by the
end of 2013, Gorman said, declining to provide the New York-
based firm’s total risk-weighted assets, known as RWAs.  New rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
are forcing Wall Street banks to increase capital for their
trading businesses even as revenue falls. Fixed-income trading
revenue at the five largest U.S. firms dropped 10 percent in the
second quarter, excluding accounting adjustments, led by  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ’s 60 percent plunge.  “There are certain businesses within fixed income that may
be nice to have, but they’re not necessary and they are RWA-
intensive,” Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat, 54, said on the
call. “As we reduce more complex areas, there’s not just a
capital benefit, but there’s a funding benefit and an expense
benefit as well.”  Structured credit and sub-investment-grade securitization
are two areas that may be targets of asset reductions, Porat
said.  Morgan Stanley has eliminated 3,272 jobs since the start of
2012 and expects that number to climb to 4,000 by year’s end,
Porat said in an interview. She didn’t specify where the
headcount reductions would be made.  Market Share  The asset cuts, which are targeted to climb to 30 percent
by the end of 2014, may conflict with Gorman’s goal of
increasing fixed-income trading market share to 8 percent, Mike Mayo, an analyst at CLSA Ltd., said on the conference call.  Colm Kelleher, 55, who oversees trading at Morgan Stanley,
said in March that the firm made progress toward that goal last
year, capturing more than 7 percent of the market, up from 5
percent in previous years. He said at the time that the fixed-
income unit was “appropriately sized.”  Gorman said the cuts in RWAs so far have been largely from
exiting large positions left over from the financial crisis,
including restructuring a derivatives deal with the Italian
government in January and reaching a settlement to cancel
contracts with bond insurer  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  in December. Further cuts
will come from changes to the make-up of the firm’s fixed-income
business, he said.  ‘Balancing Act’  “It’s a balancing act here of not throwing the baby out
with the bathwater,” Gorman said on the call. “We have some
great businesses within fixed-income and we had obviously a very
difficult quarter. We’re not going to hide from that.”  The institutional-securities division accounted for 52
percent of Morgan Stanley’s $42.5 billion in Tier 1 common
capital in the second quarter, down from about 86 percent in the
year-earlier period. Gorman said that percentage will continue
to fall as the firm cuts back in fixed-income.  “As you squeeze down fixed-income you’re freeing capital,
thus Morgan Stanley’s capital ratios look really good,” Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., said in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “It then leads you to a
question which will be, what are you going to do with this
capital once you’ve correctly sized your business?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  