-- Greenhouse Projects Watch as EU Polluters Profit: Lobby
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-07-19T17:26:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/greenhouse-projects-watch-as-eu-polluters-profit-lobby.html
Developers of United Nations-
sanctioned emission-reduction projects say they are “bitter”
as polluting factories in  Europe  may be making more money buying
their credits than they can by selling them.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, and  Tata
Steel Ltd. (TATA)  can profit from emissions trading at a time when
share prices for two publicly listed project developers,  Camco
International Ltd. (CAO)  and  Trading Emissions (TRE)  Plc, are slumping amid
last year’s record oversupply in the European Union market. And
the economy slows. The euro region will contract 0.4 percent
this year, according to the median of 43 forecasts compiled by
Bloomberg.  Factories and power stations can get 3.88 euros ($4.76) a
metric ton today by selling European Union permits they were
given for free by the bloc’s governments and  replacing  them with
purchases of UN emission credits generated in  developing
countries . That’s  91 euro cents  a ton, or 31 percent, more than
the 2.97 euro price of UN credits themselves. The differential
matched a record 1.21 euros earlier today.  “All the hard work and the risk we take is not being
rewarded,” said  Gareth Phillips , chairman of the Project
Developer Forum, the  London  industry group representing 30
greenhouse-gas cutting companies. He is chief climate change
officer at Sindicatum Sustainable Resources Group Ltd., the
Singapore-based developer of carbon offset credits. “It’s a big
windfall profit for the compliance companies” and some
emission-cutting companies are somewhat “bitter” about that,
he said.  Verified Pollution  Bob Jones , a spokesman for Tata Steel in London, declined
to comment when reached by phone July 17. Erwin Schneider, a
spokesman for ThyssenKrupp in Essen, Germany, didn’t return a
call July 18 seeking comment.  CERs for December declined to a record 2.82 euros a ton
today, and were at 2.97 euros as of 5:31 p.m London time. EU
permits fell 3.8 percent to 6.88 euros. The discount of CERs to
EU carbon allowances shrank 7.2 percent to 3.88 euros, narrowing
at the fastest pace since May 4.  The EU’s  emissions-trading  system requires companies to
surrender European carbon permits or UN credits matching their
verified carbon-dioxide pollution each year. The bloc’s
regulator limits the number of CERs that may be used to an
average 14 percent of total emissions. Unused quotas can usually
be “banked” to later years.  97 Percent  EU nations handed out about 97 percent of their carbon
allowances for free in the five years through 2012, the second
phase of the biggest greenhouse-gas-reduction program by traded
volume.  UN CER credits have plunged 70 percent in the past year,
cutting profits for project developers from  China  to  Kenya , who
wait on average 21 months for their first credits after their
project is registered by UN-overseen regulators, according to
data compiled by the UN Environment Programme’s  Risoe Centre .
The certification process can take from several months to
several years.  Steel company costs associated with carbon-permit expenses
in electricity prices, administration of the allowances and
energy-efficiency investments are more than the revenue from any
carbon allowances sold, Axel Eggert, spokesman for the European
Confederation of Iron and Steel Industries, the Brussels lobby
group, said July 17 by phone. Steelmakers favor some form of
adjustment of carbon allowance supply, depending on levels of
economic activity, he said. “This has been refused by the
European Commission.”  ‘Tremendous Disappointment’  “There is tremendous disappointment” at the low prices,
Ram Babu, chief executive officer of General Carbon Advisory
Services Pvt. Ltd. in Mumbai, said by phone July 17. “Investors
will think twice about re-entering the market.”  Babu focused on Clean Development Mechanism projects in
1999 and his company expected a CER price of at least $10 a ton,
more than double today’s level, he said.  The Clean Development Mechanism of the 1997  Kyoto Protocol ,
which governs the approval and supply of CERs, was established
to cut the cost of industrial-nation greenhouse gas targets
through this year and beyond, and to help place emerging nations
on a lower-emitting economic path.  “We need more demand,” Phillips said. The EU’s financial
crisis has helped curb consumption of permits and credits, while
the failure of UN climate-protection talks to extend or replace
the targets in the protocol that expire this year means the
outlook is unclear, he said. CERs may also be used by developed-
country governments to meet their own national emissions targets
set under the Kyoto pact.  ‘Temporary Blip’  The EU won’t accept credits from projects registered after
2012 unless they are in least-developed countries, according to
the rules of the bloc’s carbon market. Most registered by the
end of this year can continue to sell credits to factories,
power stations and airlines in the EU market through at least
2020.  Listed project developers have seen their share price fall
as demand for credits has been outweighed by the oversupply.
Trading Emissions slid 74 percent in the last twelve months,
while Camco shares have declined 77 percent.  “We don’t see any circumstances where CERs will rise above
5 euros for at least a year,” Babu said. Still, prices near 3
euros were “a temporary blip.”  Some of General Carbon’s clients predict credits may rise
to 8 euros, he said.  Competing Mechanisms  The price drop this month has been exacerbated by supply
from Russia and Ukraine, which create credits under the Joint
Implementation mechanism of the Kyoto agreement,  Matthew Gray ,
an analyst in London at Jefferies Bache Ltd., said July 16 by
phone. “These mechanisms are competing against each other,”
and the UN offsets have more to lose than EU allowances, he
said.  Emission Reduction Units for December from that program
fell to close at a record 2.68 euros a ton today.  Additional programs around the world are needed to back up
Europe’s climate fight by creating more need for emission
reductions, Babu said. “The EU alone cannot be expected to
support the international carbon price, given its economic
circumstances.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  