-- Grey Goose, Patron, Chandon Work to Quench Beach Thirst
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/grey-goose-patron-chandon-work-to-quench-beach-thirst.html
At the  Love Heals  gala on a farm in
Sagaponack,  New York , Patron tequila invited guests to make
their own mojito and take home a Patron muddler engraved with
their initials.  Farther east in Montauk, a crew of publicists passed out
Tommy Bahama straw fedoras, flip-flops and sunglasses at the
Hamptons Magazine Clambake.  The East End of  Long Island , a collection of beachy
enclaves, is a favored summer getaway for the affluent and a
prime target for companies and retailers with higher-end brands.
They sponsor and contribute to many area fundraisers during the
May-September season, while also producing events geared plainly
to marketing the product.  Tommy Bahama is known for “understated luxury, maybe
people not taking themselves quite so seriously,” said Rob Goldberg, senior vice president of marketing at Tommy Bahama.
“And the Hamptons communicates that.”  Less understated, Domaine Chandon, the sparkling wine made
in  Napa Valley , has covered the outside of a Hamptons Luxury
Liner bus with an advertisement showing a Chandon bottle
surrounded by seaside images: sand castles, lobsters, boats.  The limited-edition bottle -- white with red and blue
stripes -- has been placed at Hamptons liquor stores and
restaurants.  Cottage Party  A party thrown by  Grey Area , a store in Manhattan’s SoHo
neighborhood, entailed taking over a house for sale -- a
Bridgehampton cottage listed at almost $1.6 million -- and
filling it with furniture, jewelry and bathing suits for sale.
Guests were reminded of their hosts -- Grey Area, Pace Gallery
and 1800 Tequila -- by animations of their logos on the house’s
facade.  Grey Area, which got started as a pop-up last summer in the
Hamptons, before establishing a  Manhattan  presence, is doing a
pop-up at the  artMRKT  Hamptons fair, July 19-22.  Patron will have a presence at five to six events in the
Hamptons this season; the brand takes part in about 265 events a
year, mostly in the U.S.  “Hamptons people are on vacation, they’re willing to have
fun and try something different and new,” said Pam
Dzierzanowski, director of events at Patron Spirits Co.  The company doesn’t pay a fee to sponsor events, rather
focusing on what Dzierzanowski describes as “activation built
around experiences.”  At Love Heals, guests posed for pictures jumping in the
air, holding Patron-branded balloons and wearing Patron-branded
party hats. Patron customized its photo booth to the theme of
the event, a birthday party.  Horse Power  Some brands work connections to recruit a hostess who will
open her home for an event.  City Harvest  board member Heather
Mnuchin is doing so in August for a viewing of the diamond
collection of Leviev LVD, a City Harvest supporter. Also in
August,  Venus Williams  will show her sports collection  Eleven by
Venus Williams  at a garden party at the home of Rita Schrager.
“Be sure to dress in your tennis best,” reads the invitation.  The  2012 Bridgehampton Polo Challenge ’s opening match on
Saturday will include a private reception hosted by Marco Mattiacci, chief executive officer of Ferrari North America Inc.
Guests will be able to preview the FF, the company’s first four-
seater and four-wheel-drive V12 sports car.  Ferrari says it initiated the event to create a unique
experience for its existing clients -- and maybe a few new ones.  Another sponsor, Grey Goose, will serve its Hamptons punch,
described on its website as “a sophisticated combination,
crafted with Grey Goose Cherry Noir Flavored Vodka, fresh white
grapefruit juice, strawberries and basil simple syrup.”  “Polo is beautiful, it’s outdoors, it’s aspirational,”
Michelle Beauchamp, brand director for Grey Goose, said. “We
love for consumers to leave these events and feel they’ve been
immersed in the Grey Goose lifestyle and inspired to make these
recipes at home for their friends.”  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 