-- GSA Spent $269,000 at Virginia Event, Inspector General Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-07-19T19:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/gsa-s-inspector-general-probes-spending-at-virginia-ceremony.html
The  General Services Administration 
held a one-day event that cost taxpayers more than a quarter of
a million dollars about a month after spending $823,000 at a Las
Vegas conference that triggered a shake-up of the agency.  The GSA’s inspector general is investigating a $269,000
awards ceremony near  Washington  that featured a guitarist,
violinist and $21,000 in drumsticks given to participants.  The event in Arlington,  Virginia , in November 2010 provided
4,000 drumsticks to attendees, according to a letter today from
Inspector General  Brian Miller  to Senator  Claire McCaskill , a
Missouri Democrat and chairman of a Senate subcommittee on
contracting oversight.  This conference had a “whole host of questionable
charges,” Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican who
heads the House transportation committee, which in part oversees
GSA, said at a press conference today.  Mica said his committee is also investigating the event at
the Crystal Gateway Marriott. In addition to the drumsticks, it
included $21,000 in catering charges and $28,000 for 4,000
“time temperature picture frames,” according to Miller’s
letter.  ‘Not Tolerated’  The committee plans to hold a hearing on the Virginia
event, possibly within the month, said Justin Harclerode, a
spokesman for Mica’s committee.  The inspector general wrote that his office has “opened an
administrative investigation.” Dan Tangherlini, who became GSA
acting administrator in April, brought the incident to the
office’s attention, according to the letter.  “Under the new GSA leadership, this event and type of
spending is not tolerated,” Betsaida Alcantara, GSA’s
communications director, said in an e-mailed statement. “The
new leadership at the GSA is leaving no stone unturned in
investigating any misuse of taxpayer dollars. When we find
serious issues we refer them to the Office of Inspector General,
as we did in this case.”  The agency has been holding the awards ceremonies since
2002, Alcantara said.  The transportation committee had been working in harmony
with Tangherlini until this week, Mica said. He said the acting
administrator was “subverting” the committee’s process with
regard to approving leases.  Resort Spa  Mica said he was looking at potential legislation to “take
GSA out of the property management business, period.”  U.S. lawmakers have been scrutinizing the agency since an
April 2 report by the inspector general exposed lavish spending
at the gathering at the M Resort Spa Casino in Henderson,
 Nevada , near  Las Vegas . GSA Administrator Martha Johnson
resigned in the scandal, and the inspector general has referred
the matter to the  Department of Justice .  The Las Vegas event featured a clown, a mind reader and a
$75,000 bicycle-building exercise, according to the inspector
general. Breakfasts were provided at $44 a person, more than
triple the $12-a-person government allowance for Las Vegas,
according to the report.  The GSA manages property and purchases goods and services
for other government agencies  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  