-- Microsoft Unearned Revenue Tops Estimates on Upgrades
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-07-19T23:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/microsoft-profit-tops-estimates-as-companies-upgrade-computers.html
(Corrects spelling of BGC Partners in final paragraph.)  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  reported fourth-
quarter unearned revenue, a yardstick of future sales, that
topped analysts’ estimates, a sign that the largest software
maker will benefit from corporate demand for its programs.  Unearned revenue was $20.1 billion in the three months that
ended June 30, Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said today in
a statement. Analysts on average expected $19.4 billion,
according to  Heather Bellini , an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. Bellini’s own estimate was for $18.9 billion. Profit --
excluding a writedown that gave Microsoft its first loss as a
publicly traded company -- also topped estimates after Microsoft
reined in expenses.  Unearned sales got a boost as companies placed multiyear
orders for such products as Office and  database software , even
as they delayed other technology purchases amid weakness in the
economy. Business buying helped compensate for diminished demand
from consumers awaiting the Oct. 26 release of Windows 8, the
next version of Microsoft’s main operating system, or opting for
machines made by Apple Inc. and other competitors.  “The deferred revenue number was pretty good, which gives
you an indication of future growth, so that’s encouraging,”
said Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities
who rates the shares “sector perform.” “Given all we know
about weakness in PCs, it’s not surprising that sales numbers
came in a little light particularly on the Windows side.”  Excluding the writedown, related to the acquisition of
AQuantive Inc., profit was 67 cents a share. That exceeded the
62-cent average estimate of analysts  compiled by Bloomberg .
Sales rose 4 percent to $18.1 billion, compared with the $18.2
billion average projection.  Expense Reduction  Sales and marketing costs dropped 3.5 percent to $3.78
billion. Those savings, as well as a  tax rate  that was lower
than analysts had predicted, contributed to profit, Microsoft
Chief Financial Officer  Peter Klein  said in an interview.  Microsoft shares  rose 2.3 percent to $31.38 in extended
trading after the report. The stock had gained less than 1
percent to $30.67 at the close in  New York . It fell 5.2 percent
in the three months through the end of June, compared with a 3.3
percent  drop  for the Standard and Poor’s 500 Index.  During the quarter, Microsoft wrote down $6.2 billion for
the impairment of goodwill related to its $6.3 billion purchase
of Internet-advertising company AQuantive Inc., an indication
the company’s online business won’t grow as quickly as Microsoft
once projected. That non-cash charge is not factored into
analysts’ estimates for profit in the quarter.  Microsoft said operating expenses for the year that began
July 1 will be $30.3 billion to $30.9 billion, reiterating a
projection made in April.  PC Weakness  Revenue in the Windows division fell 13 percent to $4.15
billion, below the $4.44 billion average estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. That was the fifth time in seven quarters
that the unit has fallen short.  Consumer PC demand was weaker than corporate demand in the
period, as was the case in other recent quarters, Klein said.
The trend will probably start reversing with the release of
Windows 8, he said. He declined to give a projection.  Global PC shipments stalled in the quarter, marking a
seventh-straight quarter of tepid growth, amid weakness in
 Europe  and the growing popularity of tablets, research released
this month by Gartner Inc. showed.  Top chipmaker  Intel Corp. (INTC)  this week scaled back its annual
sales forecast as personal computer-demand fails to rebound
among consumers in the U.S. and Europe.  “The macroeconomic environment’s really a little weaker
than we saw when we began the year,” Intel Chief Financial
Officer Stacy Smith said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Low Expectations  Windows sales have suffered as some consumers opt for
tablets instead of cheaper laptops running Windows.  Tablets with Windows 8, including Microsoft’s first-ever
foray into the computer hardware market with its own Surface
tablet, are set to go on sale Oct. 26. Until then, Microsoft
won’t be able to materially reverse the trend of customers
defecting to rivals’ tablets, Klein has said.  Sales in the Business Division, largely made up of Office
software, rose 7.1 percent to $6.29 billion. That compares with
the $6.35 billion average analyst estimate.  The company is also in the final stages of development on a
new version of Office, code-named Office 15, which was unveiled
and released in a public test version this month.  Server and Tools revenue rose 13 percent to $5.09 billion.
Analysts had estimated $5.18 billion, on average.  Revenue in Entertainment and Devices, the unit that
includes the Xbox gaming console, rose 20 percent to $1.78
billion. That compares with a $1.66 billion average analyst
estimate.  “It was a great fourth-quarter for them in terms of
signing contracts,” said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at BGC
Partners LP. “Let’s be honest, it wasn’t the highest bar for
them this quarter because of the poor macroeconomic environment
and the PC market. People weren’t expecting that much.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  