-- Tiger Woods’s Fast Start at British Open Stalled by Cold Putter
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-19T16:44:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/tiger-woods-s-fast-start-at-british-open-stalled-by-cold-putter.html
Tiger Woods’s promising start at the
 British Open  was quickly stalled by his putter.  The American held the lead early in today’s opening round
at Royal Lytham & St. Annes in northwest  England . Others around
him took advantage of favorable scoring conditions, while the
14-time major winner went cold on the greens.  “Every putt was right on my start lines,” Woods told
reporters after shooting a 3-under-par 67 that left him three
shots behind leader  Adam Scott . “They were dying off the front
of the lip. I needed to hit the putts a little harder.”  Woods began his round by rolling in a 10-foot birdie putt
on the par-3 first hole. Birdies at the fourth, sixth and
seventh holes lifted him to the top of the leaderboard at 4
under par. It also left him with a chance to tie the nine-hole
record for an Open at Lytham with 29, but his 10-foot putt on
the par-3 ninth stopped short.  Five straight pars followed for Woods as Scott started a
birdie run on the back nine that led him to tie the course
record for the Open with a 64.  “I figured a couple under would have been good,” Woods
said. “But I look up on the board and Scotty is going pretty
low and so is everybody else.”  Woods encountered another blip on the par-4 15th hole after
he put his drive into the heavy rough. After taking two shots to
get out and two-putting for bogey he’d fallen to 3-under.  Rough Shot  “I was just trying to hit the ball 80 yards in the
front,” Woods said of his first shot from the rough.
“Unfortunately it didn’t just grab the hosel, it grabbed the
shaft and just turned it down. There are a few spots where it’s
pretty deep out there.”  Woods rebounded to finish with three straight pars and stay
near the top of a leaderboard full of major winners. He’s tied
with Bubba Watson, Ernie Els and Graeme McDowell, two shots
behind Grand Slam champions  Paul Lawrie  and  Zach Johnson  and
three back of Scott.  “I’m very pleased with what I did today,” Woods said. “I
really hit it well. I’ve just got to hit the putts a little
harder.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 