-- Highstar Capital Agrees to Buy Veolia Unit for $1.9 Billion
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-07-19T07:07:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/highstar-capital-agrees-to-buy-veolia-unit-for-1-9-billion-1-.html
Highstar Capital, a U.S.
infrastructure fund, agreed to buy  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) ’s
U.S. waste-management business for about $1.9 billion.  The transaction will cut Veolia’s net debt by $1.8 billion,
the Paris-based world’s biggest water company said today in a
statement. After the deal it will have completed 60 percent of
its 5 billion euro ($6.1 billion) divestment plan, it said.  Highstar, the infrastructure-focused private equity firm
once affiliated with  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , beat
bids from buyout firm Madison Dearborn Partners LLC and
Brazilian conglomerate Estre Ambiental SA, said people familiar
with the matter prior to the announcement.  Veolia is shedding the unit as it tries to cut debt by 20
percent to 12 billion euros by the end of next year. Chief
Executive Officer Antoine Frerot said last month he wants to
focus on “promising” countries and will pursue asset sales in
the U.S. and U.K.  “The transformation of Veolia is progressing as planned,”
Frerot said in the statement.  Veolia shares rose as much as 4 percent to 9.58 euros in
Paris. The shares traded at 9.50 euros at 9:04 a.m. local time.  Cost Cuts  Veolia plans to cut operating costs by 120 million euros in
2013 and narrow its geographic reach. On June 28, Veolia sold
its U.K. regulated-water business to Infracapital Partners for
1.2 billion pounds ($1.9 billion).  The deal “will create a strong company with compelling
growth prospects,” Highstar Capital Founder and Managing
Partner Christopher Lee said in a separate statement. Highstar’s
U.S. waste business will operate in 20 states with annual
revenue of about $1.4 billion, it said.  Veolia ES Solid Waste Inc. has more than 300 locations that
provide hazardous and non-hazardous waste management and
industrial cleaning services, the company said on its website.  Highstar already operates U.S. waste management businesses
Advanced Disposal Services Inc. and Interstate Waste Services
Inc, according to the New York-based company’s  website .  Deutsche Bank AG and Macquarie Group Ltd. advised Highstar
on the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  