-- Millionaires Added U.S. Stocks in Last Year as Crowd Fled
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/millionaires-added-u-s-stocks-in-last-year-as-crowd-fled.html
Millionaires added U.S. stocks more
than any other asset in the latest year as average investors
fled to bonds, according to a survey by  Fidelity Investments .  Twenty percent of the 1,020 households surveyed said they
bought individual domestic equities in the 12 months ended in
March, the Boston-based mutual fund firm said. Cash ranked
second, with 13 percent saying they added to that asset class.
Eleven percent purchased exchange-traded funds, and 10 percent
each added individual U.S. bonds or domestic stock funds.  The broader investing public has sought refuge in fixed
income since the global credit crisis sent the  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  down 38 percent in 2008, eight years after the
meltdown in technology stocks. U.S. equity mutual funds suffered
net withdrawals of $130 billion in the 12 months ended March 31,
according to Chicago-based research firm  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  Bond
funds attracted $191 billion. The  S&P 500  gained 9.2 percent
this year through yesterday.  “They’re probably ahead of the average investor in how
they view opportunities,” Bob Oros, executive vice president in
Fidelity’s institutional wealth services group, said of
millionaires in an interview. “They’re becoming less and less
risk-averse.”  The firm, which had $3.5 trillion in assets under
administration as of May 31, didn’t ask how much the
millionaires invested. There are 5.13 million U.S. households
with at least $1 million in investable assets, or 4.3 percent of
the population, according to a May  report  by the  Boston
Consulting Group .  Positive Outlook  Millionaires’ outlook for the future of the economy was the
most positive it’s been since the annual study started in 2006,
Oros said. Twelve percent said they would be willing to put
aside a large portion of their portfolio for risky investments,
compared with 8.2 percent three years ago in the wake of the
financial crisis.  The households surveyed had at least $1 million in
investable assets, excluding retirement savings and real estate,
and respondents weren’t necessarily Fidelity clients. The
average respondent was age 61 and had $3.05 million in
investable assets.  About 26 percent said they don’t feel wealthy and would
need a median of $5 million to feel rich. That compares with 42
percent of millionaires in 2011 who said they’d need $7.5
million.  “There’s been some recalibration with this group in terms
of what they need,” Oros said.  About 86 percent of the millionaires surveyed said they
were self-made, rather than born wealthy. That’s why the group
may be more comfortable with investing in U.S. stocks as many
have seen  capital appreciation  in their own experience, he said.  ‘Proxy’ Group  “The average investor would be wise to look at this group
as a proxy,” Oros said. “They are leading the way back in.”  The Tiger 21 investment network also is seeing wealthy
investors shift their portfolios toward riskier assets, albeit
to private equity, said Michael Sonnenfeldt, founder of the New
York-based group.  Its 192 members, most of whom have a net worth of at least
$10 million, on average had 18 percent of their investments in
private equity in the second quarter, a four percentage point
increase from the prior three months, according to a July 17
report.  Their allocation to equities remained at 22 percent and
their portion in fixed income, 13 percent, was the lowest since
the tracking began in 2007, the study showed.  “It’s so difficult to generate positive returns on
traditional investments,” Sonnenfeldt said in a phone interview
yesterday. “They’ve realized they have to take a little more
risk than maybe even is in their perfect comfort zone.”  ‘Nervous’ Tigers  Members still have a significant portion of their assets in
cash, or 13 percent as of June 30, because they are “very
nervous” as  Europe  struggles with the sovereign-debt crisis and
the  U.S. economy  remains sluggish, he said.  About 7 percent of millionaires surveyed by Fidelity said
they added alternative investments such as private equity and
structured products to their holdings.  Fidelity, the second-largest U.S. mutual fund company,
partnered with Bellomy Research Inc., based in Winston-Salem,
 North Carolina , to conduct the study via the Internet.  -- Editors: Josh Friedman, Larry Edelman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in  New York  
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  