-- Indian Stocks Climb on Policy Reform Speculation
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-07-19T05:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/indian-stocks-climb-on-policy-reform-speculation.html
Indian stocks climbed the most in a
week amid speculation the government will revive its economic
reform agenda after today’s presidential polls.  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, rose for
the first time in seven days.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the
largest power-equipment maker, gained for the second day.  Maruti
Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the biggest carmaker, plunged 7.2 percent
after violence at its factory. The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) 
added 0.6 percent to 17,282.67 at 10:44 a.m. in Mumbai.  Mamata Banerjee , the chief minister of West Bengal state
who has opposed key parts of Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
policy agenda, ended her opposition to the ruling Congress
party’s pick of Pranab Mukherjee to be India’s next president.
Lawmakers vote for the president today.  Ratan Tata , chairman of
Tata Sons Ltd., which manages India’s biggest business group,
said today Singh must restore the credibility of his government
and put the nation on a “growth path once again.”  “The focus is entirely on New Delhi right now,” Pratik Gupta, head of equities at Deutsche Equities India Pvt., told
Bloomberg UTV today. “A lot of policy steps need to be taken.
Some of these are politically sensitive, which can be taken once
the presidential election is out of the way. The coalition is
looking relatively more stronger now.”  Singh’s government has seen its agenda stymied by
opposition from its own allies, including Banerjee’s Trinamool
party, and last year suspended a plan to allow Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. and other overseas companies to open supermarkets. An anti-
corruption bill and proposals to allow foreign direct investment
in aviation and pensions are also stalled.  ‘Remove Roadblocks’  Singh needs to implement reforms, remove “roadblocks” to
growth, and control crony capitalism, Tata said in a  statement 
posted on his Twitter account. “For the sake of the country, we
all hope he will.” Tata blamed opposition parties and
corruption for bringing “government action to a standstill.”  Still, concerns linger that deficient monsoon rains may
curb farm output, stoking food costs and hampering efforts to
cool inflation that the central bank deemed too high last month
to reduce  interest rates  and boost an economy growing at the
weakest pace in almost a decade. Seasonal rainfall has been 22
percent below a 50-year average since June 1. Food prices
climbed 10.9 percent from a year earlier in June.  “With the poor start to this year’s monsoon threatening a
further ratchet effect on food prices, our base case remains for
the  Reserve Bank  of India to stand pat on rates at its upcoming
policy review,”  Richard Iley , analyst at BNP Paribas SA, wrote
in a note e-mailed today. The central bank meets on July 31 to
review monetary policy.  VIX Drops  India VIX, which measures the cost of protection against
losses in the S&P CNX Nifty Index, fell 3.3 percent to 16.86,
its lowest since June. The Nifty rose 0.7 percent to 5,252.55
and its July futures traded at 5,261.55. The BSE-200 Index rose
0.7 percent. Combined volume on the nation’s top two bourses was
802 million shares yesterday, 11 percent less than the 12-month
daily average of 903 million shares.  Tata Motors gained 1.6 percent to 225.1 rupees, ending a
six-day 10 percent tumble. Bharat Heavy surged 2.2 percent to
234.25 rupees.  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , the country’s second-biggest
lender, rose 1.3 percent to 951.4 rupees.  Infosys Ltd. (INFO) , the second-largest software exporter, rose
1.7 percent to 2,215.4 rupees.  Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. (STLT) ,
the biggest copper and zinc producer, climbed 1.5 percent to
104.9 rupees.  Manesar Violence  Maruti Suzuki plunged 7.2 percent to 1.138 rupees. One
person died and more than 70 management workers were injured
after violence erupted at the company’s factory at Manesar near
New Delhi, Gurgaon Police Commissioner K.K. Sindhu said in a
telephone interview today.  Hero MotoCorp Ltd. fell 0.7 percent to 2,099 rupees. The
motorcycle maker may report today net income of 6.35 billion
rupees ($115 million) in the quarter ended June 30, from 5.58
billion rupees a year earlier, according to the median estimate
of 37 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. (DRRD) , the second-biggest
drugmaker, may post profit of 3.67 billion rupees, compared with
2.63 billion rupees a year earlier, according to estimates by 23
analysts. The shares added 0.3 percent to 1,677.4 rupees.  The Sensex has gained 12 percent this year and trades at
13.5 times estimated earnings. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
trades at 10.2 times estimated profits.  Two out of five, or 40 percent, of companies on the Sensex
that have reported June-quarter results have missed analysts’
estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Foreign  investors  bought domestic shares for a 12th day on
July 17, the longest run of net purchases since February, data
from the regulator show. They have invested a net $10 billion in
Indian equities this year, the highest in  Asia  and a record for
the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Richard Frost at 
 rfrost4@bloomberg.net  