-- India to Review Farm-Exports, Curb Hoarding on Weak Rain
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-07-19T12:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/india-to-review-farm-export-rules-curb-hoarding-on-weak-monsoon.html
India , the second-biggest grower of
rice, wheat and sugar, will review its export rules and consider
curbing the amount of food crops that traders can stockpile as
the worst monsoon in three years fuels a rally in prices.  “I am concerned about the deficient rain,” Food Minister
K.V. Thomas told reporters after a meeting with Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  yesterday. “We will get a clear picture about
the situation after 15 days.”  Dry weather from the U.S. to  Australia  has parched fields,
pushing up global corn, soybean and wheat prices and curbing a
decline in food costs. El Nino weather conditions, which can
parch  Asia  and bring cooler weather to the U.S., may develop
during July to September, the  World Meteorological Organization 
said June 26. India extended a ban on exports of sugar, rice and
wheat in 2009, following the weakest monsoon since 1972.  “One of the big concerns about a repeat of the  food  crisis
is whether we are likely to see the export policy in key
producing and exporting countries changing,”  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an analyst at Barclays Plc in  London , said by
phone. “An underperforming Indian monsoon does raise concern
that potentially there could be some sort of export curbs.”  More than 235 million farmers depend on the monsoon for
crops such as rice, peanuts, soybeans and cotton. Sowing of
monsoon crops begins in June and harvesting starts in October.  Farm Output  Consumer-price inflation exceeded 10 percent in June to
remain the fastest among major economies. The consumer-price
index climbed 10.02 percent from a year earlier, compared with
10.36 percent in May, the Statistics Ministry said. Singh is
banking on higher farm output, which accounts for about 15
percent of gross domestic product, to curb food prices.  The monsoon, which represents more than 70 percent of
annual rainfall, was 22 percent less than the 50-year average
over June 1 to July 18, delaying sowing of corn and rice crops.
Weather in July, the wettest month in the June-September rainy
season, may miss a forecast of normal rain, L.S. Rathore,
director general of the  India Meteorological Department , said in
an interview on July 16.  Rain may revive over parts of  central and western India  in
the next three days, while the deficit in northwest India,
Gujarat, interior Karnataka and west Rajasthan may persist, D.S.
Pai, head of long-range forecasting division at the weather
bureau, said today.  ‘Hide and Seek’  India, also the world’s biggest sugar and palm oil
consumer, is studying the option of imposing a stockholding
limit on food crops, Thomas said yesterday.  “With the monsoon playing hide and seek, it is a challenge
for our farmers and scientists to maintain the food-grain output
achieved in the last two years,” Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar 
said July 16 in New Delhi. The country won’t ban exports of rice
and wheat as it has ample stockpiles, he said.  Soybeans on the National Commodity and Derivatives Exchange
Ltd. in Mumbai doubled in the past year, while sugar jumped 25
percent. Wheat has surged 17 percent in the past year, while
corn futures have jumped 34 percent.  Food-grain production reached a record 257.44 million tons
in the year ended June 30 after a second year of normal rains
boosted harvests, the farm ministry said. That prompted the
government to lift curbs on exports of rice and wheat last year.  Rice planting dropped 19 percent to 9.68 million hectares
(24 million acres) this year from 12.04 million hectares a year
earlier, the farm ministry said July 13. The oilseeds area
declined 22 percent to 6.77 million hectares from a year
earlier, while corn was sown over 2.17 million hectares, less
than the 3.13 million hectares a year earlier, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra in  New Delhi  at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  