-- Indonesia to Weigh Approval for Bank Stakes Exceeding 40%
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-07-19T06:12:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/indonesia-to-weigh-approval-for-bank-stakes-exceeding-40-1-.html
Indonesia ’s central bank said it
will consider letting banks own more than 40 percent of local
lenders under new rules that may allow  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) 
to proceed with its $7 billion  PT Bank Danamon Indonesia (BDMN)  bid.  Banks that want to own more than the threshold set by July
13 regulations may seek approval if they are publicly traded and
meet  capital requirements , according to a statement posted on
 Bank Indonesia ’s website. Foreign banks would need
recommendations from their local regulator.  Shares of DBS ,  Southeast Asia ’s largest lender, gained to
the highest since before its April 2 offer to buy a 67 percent
stake in Danamon from Temasek Holdings Pte as well as equity
held by minority  shareholders . Concern that Indonesia, Southeast
Asia’s biggest economy, may tighten ownership limits had led
some traders to bet that the transaction could unravel.  “The new rules will pave the way for DBS to buy Danamon,”
said Tjandra Lienandjaja, an analyst at PT BNP Paribas
Securities Indonesia. “There are exemptions” to the 40 percent
limit, “which we view as positive.”  DBS, in which  Singapore ’s state-owned investment company
Temasek has a controlling 29.5 percent stake, said it will pay
its biggest shareholder 45.2 trillion rupiah ($4.9 billion) in
new shares for the 67 percent stake in Danamon. DBS also plans
to buy the remaining stock for 21.2 trillion rupiah in the
region’s largest banking takeover.  Shares Rally  Shares of  DBS climbed  1.1 percent to S$14.49, the highest
since March 21, as of 2:02 p.m. in Singapore, where the
benchmark Straits Times Index rose 0.3 percent. Danamon gained
1.6 percent to 6,300 rupiah, the highest since April 27, at the
mid-day trading break in Jakarta.  DBS will review the new rules and will “continue to work
closely” with Bank Indonesia, said  Karen Ngui , a spokeswoman
for the lender.  An owner exceeding the 40 percent limit must have a Tier 1
capital ratio of at least 6 percent and be committed to owning
the bank for a “certain period of time,” according to the
regulations signed by Bank Indonesia Governor Darmin Nasution on
July 13. Within five years from an acquisition, at least 20
percent of the target bank’s shares must be publicly traded.  Corporate Governance  The ruling “seems to apply only to new acquisitions”
because existing banks will be exempt if they meet the
Indonesian central bank’s minimum  corporate governance  and
financial health requirements, Keith Wee, a Kuala Lumpur-based
analyst at OSK Research Sdn., said in a note to clients.  Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. owns 85.06 percent of PT Bank
OCBC NISP, according to an e-mail from the Singapore-based
lender, and  Malayan Banking Bhd. (MAY)  has a 95 percent stake in PT
Bank Internasional Indonesia, according to the Malaysian
lender’s  website . Qatar National Bank SAQ holds 69.59 percent of
PT Bank Kesawan, and Standard Chartered Plc owns 45 percent of
PT Bank Permata, data complied by Bloomberg show.  Non-financial companies may own as much as 30 percent of
Indonesian lenders and individuals may hold 20 percent,
according to the regulations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  