-- Interest Rates From Sweden to South Korea Under Scrutiny
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-07-19T15:35:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/interest-rates-from-sweden-to-south-korea-under-fresh-scrutiny.html
Regulators from  Stockholm  to  Seoul 
are re-examining how benchmark borrowing costs are set amid
concern they are just as vulnerable to manipulation as the
London interbank offered rate.  Stibor, Sweden’s main interbank rate, Sibor, the leading
rate in  Singapore , and Tibor in  Japan  are among rates facing
fresh scrutiny because, like Libor, they are based on banks’
estimated borrowing costs rather than real trades. In some cases
they may be easier to rig than Libor as fewer banks contribute
to their calculation, according to academics and analysts.  “Many of the ingredients which would make it easy to
manipulate Libor and collude are common in other benchmarks,”
said Rosa Abrantes-Metz, an economist with consulting firm
Global Economics Group and an associate professor at  New York 
University’s Stern School of Business. “Regulatory agencies are
starting to take a look at those and there is a growing sense
they need to change.”  Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest bank, was fined a
record 290 million pounds ($450 million) last month for
attempting to rig Libor and Euribor, its equivalent in euros, to
appear more healthy during the financial crisis and boost
earnings before it. At least 12 banks including  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  and Deutsche Bank AG are being investigated
for manipulating Libor.  Beyond Libor  Regulators and industry groups are now turning their
attention to whether other benchmark rates were manipulated in
the same way. Sweden’s central bank, the Japanese Bankers
Association, the Monetary Authority of Singapore and  South
Korea ’s Fair Trade Commission have all announced probes into how
their domestic rates are set.  Libor is determined by a daily poll carried out on behalf
of the British Bankers’ Association that asks banks to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. Three-month dollar Libor
was 0.453 percent on July 19.  Derivatives traders at Barclays asked colleagues who
inputted the rate each day to amend their submissions to benefit
their trading positions. They also contacted traders at other
banks to ask them to do the same. Traders at Deutsche Bank,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Societe Generale SA and Credit Agricole SA are
under investigation for interest-rate manipulation, a person
with knowledge of the matter said.  With 18 banks on the panel for U.S. dollar Libor and 43
banks for Euribor, only small moves can be achieved by making
deliberately high or low submissions. Manipulation becomes
easier when fewer banks are contributing, according to Abrantes-
Metz at Global Economics.  Collusion Ability  “Collusion typically occurs in markets with just a few
players,” Abrantes-Metz said. “All else being equal, the
smaller the group, the easier it is to collude.”  Stibor, the Stockholm interbank offered rate, is set by
five banks after RBS pulled itself off the panel on April 30. It
is calculated by Nasdaq OMX Stockholm every day for eight
maturities.  Riksbank, the Swedish central bank, said in its biannual
Financial Stability Report published June 1 that market
participants were concerned about Stibor, the basis for 40
billion Swedish krona ($5.8 billion) of loans and financial
contracts.  Stibor Questions  “Many market participants state in the Riksbank’s latest
risk survey that there are problems with the Stibor,” the
report stated. ”This refers to incentives for the banks to set
the Stibor at fair levels, the opinion that too few banks
determine the Stibor and the insufficient transparency of the
Stibor and its framework.”  The central bank was unavailable for comment because they
are on vacation, said spokeswoman Cecilia Roos Isksson.  Nibor, the Norwegian rate, is set by a panel of six banks.
Cibor, the Copenhagen rate, is based on a group of eight
lenders.  Tibor, the  Tokyo  interbank offered rate, is set by the
Japanese Bankers Association based on submissions from 16 banks
for yen and 15 lenders for euroyen, according to the industry
group’s website.  The association yesterday asked the banks to answer
questions on how they make their submissions, said spokesman
Hisanao Aoki. The reference banks, including lending units of
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas SA, must reply by Aug. 10.  Citigroup, UBS  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  were ordered to suspend some
operations in Japan last December after the Financial Services
Agency found their employees attempted to influence Tibor to a
“favorable level” for derivatives trading. Citigroup was
banned from trading tied to Libor and Tibor for two weeks, and
UBS received a one-week suspension.  Association officials today met with the ruling  Democratic
Party  of Japan’s finance committee, headed by former Morgan
Stanley banker Tsutomu Okubo, to explain how Tibor is set.  “Barclays’s fine is enormous and far above the rate of
such penalties typically imposed on Japanese financial
institutions for wrongdoing,” Okubo said at the meeting. “We
must strengthen investors’ trust in Tokyo’s financial market.”  Association Chairman  Yasuhiro Sato , who is also chief
executive officer of  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , said today
that while the process for setting Tibor is sound, he is open to
making changes based on the review.  South Korea’s antitrust agency this week expanded a probe
to see whether a key money-market rate was kept artificially
high. The Fair Trade Commission inspected 10 brokerages and nine
banks to determine if there was collusion on certificate of
deposit rates, the agency said in an e-mailed statement.  Under Pressure  The country’s 91-day  certificate of deposit rate  is a
benchmark for bank lending and borrowing as well as for
 interest-rate swaps . Quotes are collected twice a day by the
Korea Financial Investment Association from 10 brokerages.  “Korea is a relatively insulated system where the leading
banks are influential in the local market and were under
pressure to maintain their soundness and their profit margins
during the crisis,” said  David Marshall , an analyst at research
firm CreditSights Inc. in Singapore. Manipulation in Japan,
Singapore and  Hong Kong  is less likely, he said.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore said yesterday it will
look into how banks are setting “key market interest rate
benchmarks” amid similar reviews by regulators in several
markets. The Association of Banks in Singapore sets Sibor based
on submissions by 12 lenders. RBS said this week it decided to
withdraw from the panel following the January announcement of
changes to the Edinburgh-based lender’s strategic priorities. It
has also withdrawn from the Tokyo and Hong Kong interbank
offered rate-setting panels this year.  Hong Kong  In Hong Kong, the performance of banks in contributing to
set the benchmark Hibor rate is “reviewed regularly,” the Hong
Kong Association of Banks said in an e-mailed statement today.
The Hong Kong Monetary Authority said it hasn’t observed “any
anomaly” over the past 20 years and will monitor the industry
group’s review, according to an e-mailed statement. Hibor is set
daily based on quotations provided by 20 lenders, according to
the association’s website.  Barclays Plc (BARC) , Britain’s second-biggest lender by assets,
said this month it would pull out of the group of 12 banks in
the  United Arab Emirates  whose quotes determine the interbank
lending rate in the second biggest Arab economy. Dutch lender
Rabobank last month withdrew from the panels that set Libor in
 Japanese yen , the Canadian dollar, the Swiss franc, the Danish
krone and the Swedish krona. It continues to contribute toward
Libor in U.S. dollars, euros and pounds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  