-- Ireland Sticks to Plan for Bond Market Return by Early 2013
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-07-19T14:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/ireland-sticks-to-plan-for-bond-market-return-by-early-2013-1-.html
Ireland’s bond agency is sticking
with its plan to return to long-term debt markets by early 2013
as the government targets a deal with European leaders to ease
the cost of its bank rescues.  The  National Treasury Management Agency  said today it aims
to hold three or four more auctions of short-term debt this
year, after the sale of 500 million euros ($613 million) in
three-month bills on July 5. The burden from the rescue of the
country’s lenders remains a hurdle to selling bonds, Irish
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said at the NTMA briefing.  Noonan said he would ask European authorities to place a
significantly higher value on the nation’s investments in banks
than currently applies, in the event of a retrospective
recapitalization of the lenders. The  International Monetary Fund 
urged European leaders yesterday to deliver on their pledge to
break the link between governments and banks.  “A significant deal on bank debt would, of course, greatly
enhance the prospects of returning to the markets in a timely
and sustainable manner,” NTMA Chief Executive Officer  John Corrigan  said. A “sustainable re-entry” depends on Ireland
sticking to its bailout program and a resolution of the euro-
area financial crisis, according to Corrigan.  The NTMA also said it wants to diversify its sources of
funding through the first Irish sovereign issuance of amortizing
bonds and inflation-linked bonds. The NTMA may sell between 3
billion euros and 5 billion euros of the new debt instruments
during the next 18 months, as it targets domestic pension funds.  Bailout Cost  Ireland has pledged or injected about 64 billion euros to
save its financial system. The bailout cost is about 40 percent
of gross domestic product, accounting for about half the rise in
net public debt in recent years, according to the IMF.  Noonan said this week after a meeting with European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  that the country is “making
progress” in easing the terms of the rescue. The yield on
Ireland’s 5 percent security due in October 2020 rose 1 basis
point 6.27 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dara Doyle in Dublin at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net ;
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  