-- Ireland Bulldozes Ghost Estate in Life After Real Estate Bubble
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-07-19T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/ireland-bulldozes-ghost-estate-in-life-after-real-estate-bubble.html
Ireland is opting for bulldozers
rather than bankers as it starts to clear the legacy of the
housing boom whose collapse brought the economy to its knees.  About 1,850 housing developments, unfinished after the
bubble burst in 2008, pockmark the Irish landscape, according to
government figures. This week, Ireland’s National Asset
Management Agency, the state agency set up in 2009 to purge
banks of their most toxic commercial property loans, started the
destruction of an apartment block for the first time.  “There’ll be some places where the most sensible decision
that can be made will be to demolish,” Housing Minister Jan
O’Sullivan said in an interview in her Dublin office on July 10.
“If nobody wants to live in them, then the most practical thing
to do possibly will be to demolish what is there.”  The so-called ghost estates are the most visible scar left
by Western Europe’s worst real-estate crash, which led Ireland
to follow  Greece  in seeking international financial help. In
all, about 15 percent of Irish homes are vacant, the country’s
statistics agency estimates.  The death of a two-year-old who wandered into an unfinished
development in February underscored the problem of leaving the
estates empty. The building in Longford in central Ireland was
bulldozed on July 18 on safety grounds after a sewage-related
explosion in a home on the site earlier this year.  “The people that bought into a dream inherited a
nightmare,” said Peggy Nolan, a local lawmaker in Longford.
“The taxpayers have paid enough, as far as I am concerned,
shame on these developers.”  Out of Control  About 553,000 houses were built in the 10 years through
2005 in the country of about 4.5 million people, as homebuilding
expanded at twice the pace of the rest of  Europe . About 294,000
homes now lie empty, as prices halved. In Dublin, prices have
dropped 64 percent from the 2007 market peak, according to Irish
real estate agent Lisney in a report this week.  “There wasn’t proper planning, wasn’t proper control and
there wasn’t proper regulation of lending institutions,” said
O’Sullivan, 61, who took over as housing minister in December.
“We have had a very salutary and very hard lesson.”  The asset agency, known as NAMA controls or is linked to
about 10 percent of estates.  The agency this week demolished a 12-unit apartment block
at the Gleann Riada, about 115 kilometers (72 miles) from
Dublin. While 220 houses, and three apartment blocks were
planned for the site, only about 90 houses were completed and a
block in part.  Property Noose  The demolition was “great to see because it was an eyesore
and brought a lot of antisocial behaviour,” said Alan Hogan,
31, who is renting out his house elsewhere on the estate to
cover the mortgage. “For myself, I’d like to have that noose
around our necks gone.”  Concerns about the safety of such estates mounted after a
toddler drowned in a pool of water in an unfinished estate in
the Irish midlands earlier this year.  The government and  NAMA  have earmarked about 8 million
euros ($9.8 million) to address the most urgent safety issues.
Some 128 developments had been prioritized for action.  O’Sullivan is drawing together developers, local
authorities, banks, NAMA and residents to formulate “site
resolution plans” for each estate. The government envisages
that “substantially completed” developments will be finished
and potentially sold or used for social housing, O’Sullivan
said. Others will be demolished and returned for farming.  The plan is to “get rid of this blot on our landscape, and
this blot on our communities,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  