-- Is Regulating Lies the Next Campaign Reform?
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-07-19T22:40:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/is-regulating-lies-the-next-campaign-reform-.html
You know the U.S. presidential
campaign has entered its silly season when both sides have
settled into the longstanding summer tradition of  accusing the
other of lying .  Let’s assume for the sake of argument that each side is
serious -- each isn’t just saying the other is lying; each
earnestly believes that the other is lying. In a regulated
world, the obvious question is this: Why let them get away with
it?  It’s important to understand how serious an affront to
discourse lying is. When we claim that a candidate has lied, we
are not saying that he misspoke, or is poorly informed, or
misunderstands. We are saying that he is intentionally trying to
deceive the voters.  Intentional deceit is often a civil offense, sometimes even
a crime. You can go to prison if you deceive potential investors
about your company’s financial position. You might say that
elections are different because, as the  Supreme Court  has
repeatedly affirmed, in political campaigns we see the  “fullest
and most urgent application”  of the First Amendment. On the
other hand, the justices have also  warned us  that lying “is at
odds with the premises of democratic government.”  Public Trust  Just last year, in  Nevada Commission on Ethics v. Carrigan ,
the court ruled that there is no violation of the First
Amendment when a state prohibits an elected official from voting
on issues on which he has a conflict of interest. A legislator’s
vote isn’t speech, the justices explained, and is cast only as a
trustee for the public: “The legislative power thus committed
is not personal to the legislator but belongs to the people; the
legislator has no personal right to it.”  This line of thought raises an intriguing question: What
about the campaign itself? Does it belong to the candidate, or
to the people? The many limits we now place on how and when
candidates can raise or spend money, and what must be disclosed
in their advertising, strongly suggest a movement toward the
second conclusion -- that the campaign itself is also a sort of
public trust, to be waged in the public interest.  If we don’t believe this, we shouldn’t be so worried about
such matters as the influx of corporate and union dollars, or
semi-anonymous PACs. If, however, we do believe it, then we
should at least begin considering not only limits on what
candidates spend, but also limits on what they say. After all,
it is difficult to argue with a straight face that knowingly
false speech by a campaign is consistent with the public trust.  On the other hand, nowadays even false speech may receive
constitutional protection -- at least when the speaker doesn’t
gain by it. A few weeks ago, in  U.S. v. Alvarez , the Supreme
Court struck down the Stolen Valor Act, which punished people
who falsely claimed to have received military medals and other
honors. The justices dismissed the defendant’s lies as “a
pathetic attempt to gain respect.” They didn’t tell us whether
the result would have been the same had the defendant’s lies
been intended to bring him financial or other benefits.  Candidates who lie -- particularly about their opponents --
are expecting benefits. The benefits they expect are votes. The
legal scholar Eugene Volokh puts the question  this way : “Why
isn’t deceiving voters in ways that are relevant to their
casting a vote as harmful as deceiving contributors in ways that
are relevant to their contributing money to a charity?”  Special Character  Good question. One might answer that elections are more
important than the other activities we regulate -- but that
argument, in the current climate, might actually cut the other
way. Or even if we agree on the centrality of voting to
democracy ( not an uncontested point ), we actually allow lots of
restrictions on what candidates can do for just that reason --to
preserve the special character of elections. Many observers
would like to return to the days of restrictions on political
speech by private corporations, and perhaps by unions as well,
all to ensure the cleanness of campaigning.  Yet, as the legal scholar William Marshall has  pointed out ,
most of the corruption concerns that lead to regulation of
campaigns apply with considerable force to lies by the
candidates: Lies lead to misinformation, they lower the quality
of discourse, they foster voter cynicism. And, one might add,
with presidential campaigning now so expensive, the lies are
likely to drown out even serious news media efforts to correct
them.  If you don’t like the direction in which this analysis is
heading, you aren’t alone -- I don’t like it either. But I tend
to be a First Amendment absolutist. I am old-fashioned enough to
believe that the remedy for bad speech is better speech. I’m
with the Veterans of Foreign Wars, who responded to the Alvarez
decision by  promising  to “continue to challenge far-fetched
stories, and to publicize these false heroes to the broadest
extent possible as a deterrent to others.” As for corporations
or unions, if they want to waste money at election time, that to
me is a matter to be dealt with by furious shareholders or
members.  If, on the other hand, you’re not an absolutist -- if you
worry about the corrupting power of those nasty corporations or,
depending on your political sympathies, those nasty unions --
then you should be just as worried about the corrupting power of
intentional lies by the candidates themselves.  This year’s presidential nominees and their (wink, wink)
independent supporting groups may well spend upward of $2
billion, an amount that dwarfs any serious fears of what
unfettered corporations and unions might do. (By the way, just
to be clear, under the U.S. Agriculture Department  guidelines ,
$2 billion would provide more than 700 million free school
lunches.)  Defamatory Statements  Some states have statutes on the books that purport to
punish false campaign speech in certain instances; most scholars
doubt their constitutionality, but the final verdict isn’t in.
There are also cases in which the courts have permitted one
candidate to sue a rival for false and defamatory statements.  Of course, all of this matters only if one sees lies by
political candidates as a problem. Perhaps they aren’t. Maybe
they are rare, or harmless. Or so you presumably believe, if you
want to regulate the expression of opinions by campaign
outsiders but not lying by campaign insiders.  If the prospect of regulating lies by the campaigns
troubles you -- as it should -- then maybe you should consider
joining me over here in the shrinking corner of First Amendment
absolutists.  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 