-- Italian Parliament Gives Final Approval to Bill Ratifying ESM
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-07-19T12:04:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/italian-parliament-gives-final-approval-to-bill-ratifying-esm.html
The Italian Parliament gave final
approval to the European Stability Mechanism, the euro-region’s
permanent bailout fund.  The Rome-based lower house, or Chamber of Deputies, voted
325-53 in favor of the bill ratifying the ESM. The Senate passed
the bill on July 12.  The 500 billion-euro ($615 billion) fund still requires
German ratification before it can take effect. It needs
countries representing 90 percent of the voting weight of the 17
euro nations to give their approval. Italy represents nearly 18
percent of that measure.  Final approval by  Germany  is pending after a legal
challenge to the ESM prevented President  Joachim Gauck  from
signing off after parliament endorsed it last month.  Germany’s top court will take more than eight weeks to
decide whether to suspend the bailout fund, leaving  Europe ’s
anti-crisis coffers less than half full. The Federal
Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe will issue a ruling on bids to
halt Germany’s participation in the ESM on Sept. 12.  European leaders said last month that they may let the ESM
lend directly to banks if there’s a framework for common bank
supervision.  That would include an expanded role for the  European
Central Bank , they said. Olli Rehn, the European Union’s
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner, has said that the
commission will present a draft law by early September to create
such a single supervisor.  Even though the ESM “isn’t operational already by this
July, I don’t believe there is reason to worry,” Italian
Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli  said yesterday in testimony
before parliament. In the meantime, the European Financial
Stability Facility, the area’s existing bailout program, is
available, Grilli said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  