-- J.C. Penney Surges After Ackman Reiterates Belief in CEO
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-07-19T20:43:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/j-c-penney-surges-after-ackman-reiterates-belief-in-ceo-1-.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  rose after  Bill Ackman , the founder of Pershing Square Capital Management LP,
reiterated his confidence in Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ’s turnaround efforts.  The shares advanced 4.8 percent to $20.66 at the close in
New York. The Plano, Texas-based company has declined 41 percent
this year.  Ackman believes in Johnson’s “start-up mentality,” he
said yesterday at the Delivering Alpha conference in New York,
produced by CNBC and Institutional Investor Inc. He said he may
make 15 times his investment in the fourth-biggest U.S.
department store company. Pershing Square, with an 18 percent
stake, is the  biggest  shareholder.  The jump in the stock is partially because of the
presentation yesterday and “mostly due to Ackman’s
commitment,” said Steven Kiel, the founder of Annandale,
Virginia-based Arquitos Capital Management LLC, which holds J.C.
Penney shares.  Johnson, the former retailing chief of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , has
worked to transform J.C. Penney stores into collections of
branded shops and instituted a three-tiered pricing system to
wean customers off discounts. The strategy has met with
resistance from shoppers who crave coupons or are unfamiliar
with the new look, contributing to a 20 percent decline in
first-quarter  sales .  The CEO reiterated yesterday that his turnaround will take
four years and that he is sticking with his strategy for
“everyday low prices” in a presentation yesterday at the
Fortune Brainstorm Tech conference in Aspen, Colorado.  J.C. Penney, with more than 1,000 locations and $17.3
billion in sales last year, is expected to report second-quarter
earnings on Aug. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  