-- Jaguar Rally Fades as Tata Investors Look Beyond Evoque
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-07-19T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/jaguar-rally-fades-as-tata-investors-look-beyond-evoque.html
Three months ago, optimism over
Jaguar Land Rover was so high, its Indian parent’s shares were
up almost 80 percent this year, valuing  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)  more
than Porsche AG’s holding company. Reality may be setting in.  Tata Motors has fallen 30 percent in Mumbai trading since
the stock peaked on April 19, when it was the year’s best
performer among the world’s biggest carmakers. This week, the
company reported sales of Jaguar cars fell for the first time in
seven months. Deliveries of Land Rover sport utility vehicles --
excluding the sold-out Evoque -- dropped for a third month,
according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  The fading optimism is raising the pressure on Chief
Executive Officer Ralf Speth to revamp Jaguar’s aging designs
and increase the appeal of Land Rover models other than the
Evoque. Tata is committing to invest $12 billion in its British
luxury-vehicle unit over five years and is preparing to unveil
Jaguar’s first two-seat sports car in almost four decades.  “I definitely think that the euphoria over Jaguar Land
Rover has come down,” said Taina Erajuuri, a Helsinki-based
 money manager  at FIM Asset Management, which oversees about $1.2
billion, including Tata Motors shares. “Tata Motors has to
revamp Jaguar’s models and their strategy and brand.”  Jaguar CEO Speth was unavailable to comment.  Mounting signs of weakening non-Evoque sales at Jaguar Land
Rover led Abhijeet Naik, a Mumbai-based analyst at CLSA Asia-
Pacific Markets, to cut his rating and earnings projections for
Tata Motors on July 16.  Optimistic Analysts  Naik is in the minority. Of the 60 analysts tracked by
Bloomberg, 43 have the equivalent of a buy rating on Tata
Motors. Their average 12-month target price on the stock is
 293.52 rupees , or 41 percent higher than the consensus at the
beginning of the year and 31 percent more than Tata’s latest
close of 224.80 rupees.  The Evoque, which has a special edition styled by Victoria Beckham, went on sale in September 2011 and now accounts for
more than 21 percent of Land Rover-brand sales, in the year
ended March 31. Its popularity drove total June deliveries at
Jaguar Land Rover to climb 39 percent to 28,215 units. Excluding
the compact SUV, named by the Automotive Press Association in
January as the North American truck of the year, sales declined
6 percent, according to CLSA estimates.  “The only factor going for Tata Motors is JLR,” said
Basudeb Banerjee, an analyst with Quant Broking Pvt. in Mumbai.
“If JLR numbers continue to be under 30,000 in the coming
months, the stock will definitely see more corrections.”  ‘Getting Old’  Tata Motors is also facing mounting investor concerns
because all of the current models were designed before the
Indian company acquired the two British luxury marques from  Ford
Motor Co. (F)  for $2.4 billion in 2008, said  Deepesh Rathore , New
Delhi-based managing director of IHS Automotive. The next wave
of products will help investors determine whether Tata Motors
can keep Jaguar and Land Rover designs appealing, he said.  “All of Jaguar Land Rover’s models are getting old and the
next 24 months are crucial for the company,” said Rathore. “I
don’t think investors have much faith in Tata Motors keeping to
its deadlines. In the luxury car space especially, buyers will
quit the brand if they don’t see anything new.”  Jaguar’s XF, which accounted for 62 percent of Jaguar’s
total deliveries in the year ended March 31, was introduced in
2008. Mercedes-Benz redesigned the E Class a year later, while
BMW did the same with its mid-range product in 2010, and Audi in
2011.  Niche Player  Andrew Jackson , an analyst at Datamonitor in  London , said
Jaguar’s limited number of vehicle lines is holding back the
company’s ability to evolve from a niche player to a serious
competitor to  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi, BMW and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz, he said.  Jaguar’s current three-vehicle lineup consists of the high-
end XJ sedan -- positioned to compete with the BMW 7-Series,
Mercedes S-Class and Audi A8 -- and the mid-range XF saloon,
which vies against the 5-Series, E-Class and A6. Jaguar also
makes the XK, which is available as a four-seat convertible for
99,400 euros ($122,300) and was seen as the closest thing to an
E-Type successor when it was introduced in 1996.  “The one thing that Jaguar is crying out for is a 3-series
rival,” said Jackson, in reference to BMW’s low-end sedan.
“There is an absence of a volume vehicle that will give them
the ability to do the same that Land Rover has managed to do
with the Evoque.”  ‘Beautiful Car’  The carmaker, which in 1961 introduced the E-type --
described by Ferrari founder Enzo Ferrari as “the most
beautiful car ever built” -- will unveil a new sports car in
September. The two-seat F-Type will go on sale as early as next
April, and will help attract rich customers to its stores, said
Rathore.  In May, Tata Motors said it would spend 2 billion pounds
this year in capital expenditure as it looks to fund an
expansion that includes a pipeline of 40 new or upgraded vehicle
models over the next five years  Investors will be looking closely at those new designs.  “I think Jaguar has to look at design and they have to
bring in a new model that appeals to younger buyers,” said
Erajuuri at FIM Asset. “When I think of a Jaguar, I think of it
as a car that my father would drive, not something that I would
buy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  