-- Japan Bank Lobby Starts Review of Tibor Rate Submitters
-- B y   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-07-19T08:05:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/japan-bank-lobby-starts-review-of-tibor-rate-submitters-1-.html
The  Japanese Bankers Association  is
reviewing member banks to ensure they follow its guidelines for
submitting  Tokyo interbank offered rates  as global finance
regulators widen a probe into interest-rate manipulation.  The group yesterday sent questionnaires to the 16 reference
banks that submit yen-denominated Tibor rates to the association
and the 15 lenders that submit euro-yen Tibor rates, Hisanao
Aoki, a spokesman for the Tokyo-based lobbying group, said in an
interview, declining to elaborate details of the questions.
Banks have been given a deadline of Aug. 10 to respond, he said.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month was fined 290 million pounds ($454
million) for rigging London interbank rates, prompting
authorities in Europe, Asia and the U.S. to broaden inquiries
into manipulation of benchmark gauges for borrowing costs. Lobby
officials today met with the  Democratic Party  of Japan’s finance
committee, headed by former Morgan Stanley banker Tsutomu Okubo,
to explain how Tibor is set.  “Barclays’ fine is enormous and far above the rate of such
penalties typically imposed on Japanese financial institutions
for wrongdoings,” Okubo said in his opening remarks at the
panel’s meeting this morning. “We must strengthen investors’
trust in Tokyo’s financial market.”  Reference Banks  The reference banks, including the lending units of
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
Group Inc. (8316) ,  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , are responsible for submitting interbank
offered rates to the association, which compiles them and sets
the benchmark, according to the lobbying group’s  website .  Association Chairman  Yasuhiro Sato  said today that while
process for setting Tibor is sound, he is open to making changes
based on the review.  “There aren’t any problems with the structure of Tibor
setting,” Sato said at a news conference in Tokyo. “We will
examine the results of our ongoing review, and if there’s
anything we can do to improve Tibor setting and strengthen trust
in the benchmark, we would reform the structure.”  He also said no Japanese lenders were found to have been
involved in Libor manipulation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  