-- Japan Seeks to Criminalize Underwriters on Insider Breaches
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 2012-07-20T03:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/japan-ruling-party-seeks-to-criminalize-stock-information-leaks.html
Japan ’s ruling party is seeking
changes to insider-trading rules that would allow criminal
charges and fines for brokerages and bankers who leak stock
offering information, according to a document obtained by
Bloomberg News.  The  Democratic Party  of Japan’s 15-member working group,
led by former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  managing director  Tsutomu Okubo ,
discussed the draft today and will submit a final version to the
party by July 31, said Kazuya Kondo, a member of the group,
while declining to show the document. The DPJ will then submit a
proposal to the country’s Financial Services Agency.  Japan’s  Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission  has
uncovered five insider-trading cases since March related to
equity offerings in 2010. The watchdog has recommended fines for
traders who made short sales based on leaked information in
those cases, while underwriters who gave them the tips have
received no penalties, based on existing rules.  “Insider trading has destroyed credence in the Japanese
 capital market ,” Shinsuke Amiya, a DPJ lawmaker, said in
opening remarks at the conference this morning. Amiya is a
former vice chairman at  Merrill Lynch & Co. (BAC)  in Japan. “It’s
critical for us to devise policy recommendations to tackle the
issue.”  Hedge Funds  Other DPJ proposals include allowing lead underwriters to
market equity offerings under strict confidentiality agreements
before share sales are announced, according to the document. The
working group is also proposing that  pension funds  pledge not to
invest in hedge funds that have breached insider rules.  The SESC is continuing to inspect  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ,
Japan’s biggest brokerage, after finding that its employees gave
tips to traders on share sales it managed. As part of its
crackdown, the regulator this month asked Nomura,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  and 10 other brokerages to review how they handle
confidential information.  Nomura said on June 29 that it cut top executives’ pay,
forced two managers to step down and suspended some operations
following an internal probe into leaks ahead of 2010 equity
offerings by  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) ,  Inpex Corp. (1605)  and  Tokyo 
Electric Power Co.  Lawyers hired by Nomura to investigate the breaches said in
a report that sales staff appeared to have been “willing to do
anything to meet sales targets.”  Passing Tips  The regulators’ probe focuses on a glut of share offerings
made when companies replenished capital in the aftermath of the
global financial crisis. Japanese companies sold 5 trillion yen
($64 billion) of shares in 2010, the most in four years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Brokers faced the
challenge of marketing those equities to investors reeling from
 Europe ’s sovereign debt turmoil and other threats.  Investment bankers who managed share sales allowed, and in
some circumstances encouraged, the salespeople to pass on tips
to short sellers because they created demand by buying back the
stock during the public offerings, according to two bankers who
worked for equity divisions at firms in Tokyo and asked not to
be named because of confidentiality agreements.  Financial Services Minister Tadahiro Matsushita said last
week that his agency could be doing more and he ordered
officials to consider stiffer  insider-trading  penalties.  Regulators now impose fines based on profits made from
trades, with no punitive penalties attached, while tipsters
aren’t subject to fines. The FSA last month fined  Sumitomo
Mitsui Trust Holdings Inc. (8309)  130,000 yen after a former unit
traded shares for clients ahead of two public offerings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto in Tokyo at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  