-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Rise Amid Auto Plant Layoffs
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-07-19T12:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/jobless-claims-in-u-s-rise-as-auto-plant-layoff-effects-ease.html
More Americans than forecast filed
first-time claims for unemployment insurance payments last week,
reflecting volatility induced by the annual auto-plant retooling
period.  Applications for  jobless benefits  increased by 34,000 to
386,000 in the week ended July 14, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast 365,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey . The volatility
in the numbers was due to a change in the timing of annual
automobile plant layoffs, a Labor Department official said as
the data were released.  Determining whether the labor market is improving or
deteriorating has been more difficult in recent weeks because a
reduction in the number of auto-plant layoffs typical at this
point of the year has thrown the Labor Department’s seasonal
adjustment process out of line. It may take weeks to judge
the direction the labor market is taking.  “Seeing through the statistical noise, the labor market is
pretty soggy, and the claims numbers will reflect that once they
settle down,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at
Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York  and the best forecaster
of U.S. economic indicators in the two years through May,
according to Bloomberg data. “I don’t think next week is going
to be a clean read either, so you might have to wait a little
while longer.”  Stock futures climbed after the report. The contract on
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in September rose 0.3
percent to 1,372 at 8:39 a.m. in New York.  The yield on the 10-
year Treasury note rose to 1.51 percent from 1.5 percent late
yesterday.  Bloomberg Survey  Estimates for first-time claims ranged from 350,000 to
390,000 in the Bloomberg News survey of 47 economists. The Labor
Department initially reported the prior week’s applications at
350,000.  The timing of auto plant shutdowns to retool for the new
model year has been difficult to predict this year, making
adjusting the claims data for these seasonal variations more
challenging, the Labor Department official said. The official
said the adjustment process expected a decrease of about 7
percent in unadjusted claims. Instead claims rose about 2
percent. The official said it will take a couple of weeks for
the volatility to ease.  Chrysler, Ford  Chrysler Group LLC said in May that three U.S. plants would
skip normally their scheduled two-week midyear shutdowns to meet
increased demand, while two more plants would shut for one week
instead of two.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  said it would idle 13 plants for
one week instead of two as part of the company’s annual summer
shutdown. Nissan Motor Co. is also boosting hours, shifts and
payrolls to meet demand.  Last week included the 12th of the month, which coincides
with the period the Labor Department uses in its survey of
employers to calculate monthly payroll growth. The employment
report for July will be released on August 3  The four-week  moving average , a less-volatile measure, fell
to 375,500 from 377,000.  The number of people  continuing  to collect jobless benefits
increased by 1,000 in the week ended July 7 to 3.31 million. The
continuing claims figure does not include the number of workers
receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
85,000 to about 2.57 million in the week ended June 30.  Unemployment Rate  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, held at 2.6 percent in
the week ended, today’s report showed. Forty-four states and
territories reported an increase in claims, while nine reported
a decrease.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Apart from the volatility in claims, other indicators show
that job prospects have narrowed in the U.S. The Labor
Department reported on July 6 that employers added 80,000 jobs
to payrolls in June, fewer than economists forecast, while the
jobless rate was unchanged at 8.2 percent, the 41st consecutive
month above 8 percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told Senate
lawmakers earlier this week that progress in reducing
unemployment is likely to be “frustratingly slow” and repeated
that the central bank is ready to take further action to boost
the recovery, while refraining from pledging any new policies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  