-- Johnson Controls Falls on Pared Outlook
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-07-19T20:14:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/johnson-controls-falls-as-outlook-pared-on-global-softness-.html
Johnson Controls Inc. (JCI) , the largest
U.S. auto supplier, fell the most in six months after lowering
its forecast for profit for the fourth quarter because of
softness in global markets.  Johnson Controls slid 7.9 percent to $26.07 at the close in
 New York , the biggest decline since Jan. 19. Sales and profit in
the third quarter, which ended June 30, missed analysts’
estimates. The company said in slides contained in a filing it
may divest assets and cut jobs.  “Near term, the stock likely has limited upside versus the
market,”  David Leiker , an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.,
wrote in a report today lowering his rating to neutral from
outperform.  Profit in the three months ended Sept. 30 will be in a
range of unchanged to 5 percent higher, the company said today,
down from a gain of about 25 percent, a forecast it gave April
20. The average estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for profit to increase 21 percent. Automakers, including
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , are struggling to cut
losses in Europe, which is heading for its fifth straight year
of declining sales.  Johnson Controls’ shares have fallen 17 percent this year
after declining 18 percent in 2011.  Profit Rises  Net income in the quarter that ended June 30 rose 17
percent to $417 million, or 61 cents a share, from $357 million,
or 52 cents, Johnson Controls said today. Excluding $52 million
in pretax restructuring costs and a one-time tax benefit of $22
million, profit was 64 cents a share. The average estimate of 28
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a profit of 66 cents.  “While we saw a significant improvement in profitability
in the third quarter, sluggish demand in some of our key markets
along with a much weaker euro resulted in lower top line growth
than we expected,” Stephen Roell, chief executive officer of
the Milwaukee-based company, said in a statement.  Johnson Controls, in a slide presentation for its analyst
and investor conference call today, said it wants to “right-
size headcount” and may divest “underperforming” businesses’’
to improve profitability.  Unit Results  Sales in the quarter were $10.6 billion, compared with an
average estimate of $10.9 billion. Sales in the auto-parts unit
rose 6.8 percent to $5.46 billion, helped by higher auto
production in  North America  and  Asia . Profit for the unit, which
makes cockpits, seats and instrument panels, rose 42 percent to
$202 million.  Johnson Control’s building-efficiency unit’s sales fell 2.4
percent to $3.8 billion. Income for the unit rose 28 percent to
$264 million, as record high temperatures in North America
boosted residential air-conditioning sales. The company’s
efficiency business also includes controls and services for air-
conditioning and security in commercial buildings.  In automotive batteries, Johnson Control’s smallest and
most-profitable business, sales fell 2.7 percent to $1.32
billion; profit from that unit fell 8.6 percent to $149 million.
Johnson Controls said consumer demand for replacement batteries
in North America and batteries for new cars in  Europe  was lower
than it expected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  