-- Kayak Software Raises $91 Million, Prices IPO Above Range
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-07-19T22:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/kayak-software-raises-91-million-prices-ipo-above-range.html
Kayak Software Corp. (KYAK) , the online
travel company, raised $91 million in its initial public
offering, pricing the shares above its proposed range.  The company sold 3.5 million shares at $26 each, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Kayak, which will trade under the
ticker KYAK on the Nasdaq Stock Market, had planned to sell the
shares at $22 to $25 apiece.  Kayak, which first filed to go public in November 2010, is
the first U.S. consumer Internet company to go public since
 Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s troubled IPO in May. Norwalk, Connecticut-based
Kayak delayed its roadshow after Facebook shares tumbled and is
testing investor appetite for Web stocks now that the social-
networking company has regained some of its losses.  Revenue at Kayak jumped 39 percent in the first quarter to
$73.3 million, from $52.7 million a year earlier. The company
reported  net income  in the period of $4.1 million, following a
$6.9 million loss in the year-earlier quarter because of a
writedown related to its SideStep brand.  Kayak’s competitors in the online travel market include
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Microsoft Corp., which have both made
acquisitions to expand their businesses. Kayak also faces
competition from startups like  Hipmunk Inc.   The company was founded in 2004 by Chief Executive Officer
Daniel Stephen Hafner and Paul English, the chief technology
officer. They hold a combined 16 percent of the company’s voting
power. The biggest backers are General Catalyst Partners,
 Sequoia Capital , Accel Partners and  Oak Investment Partners .  Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG led the offering.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  