-- Kingfisher Second-Quarter Sales Rise on Increased Discounts
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-07-19T06:42:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/kingfisher-second-quarter-sales-rise-on-increased-discounts.html
Kingfisher Plc (KGF) , Europe’s largest
home-improvement retailer, said second-quarter revenue rose at
its B&Q chain as increased discounts on indoor products lured
enough shoppers to offset soggy weather in June and July.  Sales at U.K. and Ireland B&Q stores open at least a year
increased 1.6 percent in the 10 weeks ended July 7, the London-
based company said today in a statement, improving upon the 12
percent dip of the previous quarter. The average estimate of
seven  analysts  compiled by Bloomberg was for a decline of 0.2
percent. B&Q’s total sales rose 4.9 percent.  Kingfisher gets more than 40 percent of revenue from the
U.K. and Ireland, where record rainfall has kept gardeners
indoors. After the wettest June on record, England has already
had 150 percent of the normal amount of rain it usually gets in
July, the  Met Office  has said.  “Additional marketing and promotional activity helped
encourage customers to switch some of their activity to internal
repairs and projects, partially offsetting the weather-related
weakness, particularly in the U.K.,” Chief Executive Officer
Ian Cheshire said in the statement.  Gross margins at B&Q should narrow this quarter, hurt by
markdowns and sales promotions to attract shoppers, the company
said.  The retailer is seeking growth in countries including
 Poland  and Russia to help offset declines in Britain. Sales in
Poland rose 1.5 percent and revenue increased 49 percent in
Russia. In  France , where Kingfisher owns the Castorama chain,
sales declined 0.6 percent. Across all of Kingfisher’s banners,
sales dropped 0.4 percent at stores open at least a year.  Kingfisher shares rose 1.6 percent to 275.2 pence in London
 trading  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  