-- KKR Plans to Offer Two Retail Funds to Pursue Debt Deals
-- B y   J a s o n   K e l l y
-- 2012-07-19T20:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/kkr-plans-to-offer-two-retail-funds-to-pursue-debt-deals.html
KKR & Co. LP (KKR) , the private-equity
firm run by  Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , plans to open two
debt funds for individual investors, according to government
filings.  KKR will offer the KKR Alternative Corporate Opportunities
Fund and the KKR Alternative High Yield Fund, according to
 filings  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Both
funds will be managed by KKR Asset Management, the firm’s San
Francisco-based unit focused on public investments.  The funds, along with the existing  KKR Financial Holdings (KFN) 
vehicle, would bolster KKR’s efforts beyond leveraged buyout
funds, which require accredited investors to commit capital for
about a decade. Kravis and Roberts, who created New York-based
KKR in 1976 with Jerome Kohlberg, have expanded the firm’s
businesses in real estate, hedge funds and energy investing in
recent years.  The Alternative High Yield Fund is a mutual fund that plans
to buy non-investment grade debt, according to one of the
filings. The Alternative Corporate Opportunities Fund is a
closed-end fund that will pursue debt investments as well. While
some closed-end funds sell a fixed amount of shares to raise
money for investments and then trade on an exchange like stocks,
KKR’s version won’t be listed on an exchange. Liquidity will be
provided by quarterly repurchase offers, according to the
filing.  European Crisis  The firm cited turmoil in the financial industry and the
 European debt crisis  as providing opportunities to invest. The
filings, dated yesterday, don’t give details on the expected
sizes of the funds or minimum investments.  KKR created the asset management unit, known as KAM, in
2004, the firm said. Kravis and Roberts hired William Sonneborn,
who serves as the unit’s chief executive officer, in 2008 from
money manager TCW Group Inc. Sonneborn has overseen the opening
of KKR’s first equity hedge fund, as well as a pool dedicated to
mezzanine loans.  The filings for the new funds were reported earlier today
by the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Kelly in  New York  at 
 jkelly14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  