-- Korea Feed Group Asks U.S. to Curb Corn, Soybean Use in Biofuel
-- B y   J a e   H u r
-- 2012-07-19T08:09:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/korea-feed-group-asks-u-s-to-curb-corn-soybean-use-in-biofuel.html
South Korea ’s top grain importer has
urged the U.S. to consider cutting the use of corn and soybeans
in biofuel production to ensure stable food supplies as prices
soar amid the worst U.S. drought in decades.  “Purchases from  South America  and Eastern Europe aren’t a
solution and substitution is also not possible as most grain and
oilseed prices are surging,” said Kim Chi Young, director for
the purchasing division at the Korea Feed Association.  Soybeans reached a record today and corn rallied to the
highest level since June 2008. The drought is baking farms from
 Arkansas  to  Ohio , reducing yields, after frosts followed by
drought cut wheat harvests in the former  Soviet Union , prompting
the  United Nations  and the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  to
pare estimates for world grain harvests.  “The impact on domestic livestock and food industries will
come later this year or early next year as we’ve covered most of
our corn requirements,” Kim said. “For feed wheat and soybean
meal, buyers have covered their needs through November.”  South Korea’s feed industry used 5.7 million metric tons of
corn, 2.3 million tons of wheat and 2 million tons of soybean
meal last year. The U.S. supplies over 80 percent of South
Korea’s total feed-corn demand, Kim said.  Ethanol Drops  Ethanol production in the U.S. sank 2.3 percent to 802,000
barrels a day last week, the lowest level since the Energy
Department began tracking weekly data in 2010.  December-delivery corn gained as much 1.4 percent at $7.95
a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade, the highest for the
most-active contract in more than four years. Soybeans for
November delivery gained as much as 1.5 percent to a record
$16.445 a bushel.  Dimming corn-crop prospects in the U.S. may push  global
food costs  higher, the Food & Agriculture Organization said
earlier this month. South Korea,  Asia ’s biggest corn buyer after
 Japan , will import 8 million tons of corn for food and feed in
2012-2013, according to the July report by the USDA.  The rallies come at a time when compound feed output in
South Korea is expected to rise about 10 percent this year as
the hog population recovers from an outbreak of foot-and-mouth
disease last year, he said.  The country culled 3.32 million pigs, or 34 percent of the
total herd, and 151,000 cattle, or 4.5 percent of the total,
from late November 2010 through April 2011 because of the
disease, according to government data.  South Korea’s compound feed production may increase to more
than 18 million tons this year from 16.7 million tons last year,
according to the association. In the first six months, feed
output rose 9.6 percent to 9 million tons, the group said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  