-- Kumar Seeks Probation, Citing Help to Gupta Prosecutors
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-07-19T13:23:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/kumar-seeks-probation-citing-cooperation-in-gupta-prosecution.html
Former McKinsey & Co. partner Anil Kumar deserves probation for his role in an insider-trading
scheme because of his cooperation in the prosecutions of ex-
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  and fund manager
 Raj Rajaratnam , his lawyers said.  Since he agreed to plead guilty and cooperate with the
government, Kumar has given back to health institutions in the
U.S. and  India , including the Baylor College of Medicine in
 Texas  and Max Institute of Healthcare Education & Research in
India, his lawyer Greg Morvillo said in court papers unsealed
late last night in  Manhattan  federal court. Kumar is scheduled
to be sentenced today.  Kumar led a “law-abiding life” until he was pulled into
the insider-trading scheme with Rajaratnam, Morvillo said.
Rajaratnam is serving an 11-year prison sentence for  securities
fraud . Gupta, who was convicted of securities fraud in June,
hasn’t been sentenced yet.  According to the filing, Kumar had expected to be sentenced
after completing his testimony against Rajaratnam last year and
was “crushed” when told he would have to give evidence against
Gupta, the former head of McKinsey and Kumar’s mentor.  ‘High Esteem’  “He was a friend of Mr. Gupta and his family, and had held
him in high esteem as the CEO of McKinsey,” Morvillo said.
Kumar complied with his obligations during two days on the
witness stand in the Gupta case, Morvillo said.  The testimony was “grueling,” the lawyer said, “because
Anil knew that he could be partially responsible for helping to
convict someone with whom he and his family had deep and long-
lasting ties.”  Prosecutors have also cited Kumar’s “extraordinary”
cooperation. At Rajaratnam’s trial last year, Kumar’s testimony
“was nothing short of devastating,” prosecutors said July 16
in a letter to Denny Chin, the sentencing judge. In June, Kumar
told a jury how Gupta teamed up with Rajaratnam, co-founder of
the Galleon Group LLC hedge fund, in 2006 to try to raise $2
billion for an investment fund.  “Kumar’s cooperating with the government was absolutely
essential in two of the most important securities fraud trials
in history,” assistant U.S. attorneys Reed Brodsky and Richard
Tarlowe said in the letter.  Few other people ensnared in the insider-trading
investigation tied to Rajaratnam have cooperated with the U.S.,
the prosecutors said.  Guilty Plea  Kumar, who worked at McKinsey from 1986 until November
2009, pleaded guilty in January 2010 to one count of conspiracy
and one count of securities fraud. Under the statutes,
conspiracy is punishable by as long as five years in prison
while securities fraud carries a maximum term of as long as 20
years. Kumar also agreed to pay $2.6 million in forfeiture.  Adam Smith , a former Galleon fund manager who pleaded
guilty and testified against Rajaratnam, was sentenced in June
to two years’ probation after prosecutors called him a “key”
cooperating witness. He was sentenced by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff, who presided over Gupta’s case. Gupta is scheduled to be
sentenced Oct. 18.  Kumar testified that Gupta approached him in 2006 saying he
wanted to start an investment fund after his scheduled
retirement from McKinsey in 2007. Kumar said Gupta sought out
Rajaratnam, who was Kumar’s classmate at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School, because of his expertise as a
prominent hedge fund manager.  The case is U.S. v. Kumar, 10-cr-13, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  