-- Kuwait Names Cabinet, Appoints Al-Hajraf as Finance Minister
-- B y   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-07-19T13:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/kuwait-names-cabinet-appoints-al-hajraf-as-finance-minister-1-.html
Kuwait  formed a new Cabinet today,
its tenth since February 2006, amid tensions between the
opposition, which held a majority in the dissolved parliament,
and the government.  Hani Hussain was reappointed as oil minister and Nayef Al-
Hajraf was named minister of finance in the 14-member Cabinet.
The posts of defense, interior and foreign affairs were
unchanged and held by members of the ruling Al-Sabah family.  The new government includes one woman, U.S.-educated Rola
Dashti, who was appointed state minister for planning and
development. Dashti, a lawmaker elected to the 2009 parliament,
was also named state minister for parliamentary affairs, state
media reported. Anas Al-Saleh was reappointed minister of
commerce.  The Cabinet is headed by Prime Minister Sheikh Jaber al- Mubarak Al-Sabah, whose previous government resigned on June 25,
five days after the  Constitutional Court  dissolved the
parliament elected in February. The court reinstated the
National Assembly elected in 2009.  “Kuwait is trying to deal with its political differences
by buying more time,” Shafeeq Ghabra, a political science
professor at Kuwait University, said by phone today. “The real
issue is the new election and this is what society is waiting
for.”  The opposition has called for new elections.  Fourth Election  Sheikh Jaber was first appointed on Feb. 14 following
Kuwait’s fourth election in six years, which came in the wake of
an unprecedented campaign of protests against the administration
over corruption allegations. Opposition candidates won more than
30 of parliament’s 50 seats and vowed to push for the transfer
of more powers to the legislature.  Repeated clashes between lawmakers and the government over
how to share power have led to a series of parliamentary
dissolutions and Cabinet resignations in the country, the
fourth-biggest producer in the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries. That’s contributed to slower economic
growth and delays to key investment projects.  The opposition movement includes Islamists, liberals and
independents, as well as youth groups who draw inspiration from
last year’s Arab uprisings. Some groups demand a constitutional
monarchy and an elected government, while others say their focus
is fighting corruption.  Opposition lawmakers have accused the government of delays
in implementation of Kuwait’s $111 billion development plan,
which includes expanding oil and gas production and
infrastructure.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  