-- Nasdaq Will Learn From Facebook Mishandling, Knight’s Joyce Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-07-19T16:27:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/nasdaq-will-learn-from-facebook-mishandling-knight-s-joyce-says.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s botched initial
public offering was the fault of the Nasdaq Stock Market and the
exchange owner will learn from its mistakes, the chief executive
officer of  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG)  said.  Lawyers for Knight, whose equity wholesaling unit executes
orders from retail investors sent by discount brokers, remain in
contact with  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , Thomas Joyce, the CEO of the
Jersey City, New Jersey-based firm, said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview. Knight lost $35.4 million in trading
related to the May 18 debut, described by Nasdaq CEO  Robert Greifeld  as the “biggest IPO cross in the history of mankind.”  “Their technology failed and then there were a series of
decisions made after the technology failed that were
unfortunate,” Joyce said today. “Bob and that organization
will learn from what happened that day and I have no doubt will
improve upon it.”  A technical glitch with Facebook’s auction to set its first
price delayed the open while Nasdaq’s efforts to fix the problem
prevented trade reports from being disseminated for more than
two hours, spurring confusion among brokers and investors. Joyce
and competitors to the New York-based exchange, such as  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) , have blamed Nasdaq and called its mishandling of the
IPO a setback for the securities industry.  Nasdaq  is seeking Securities and Exchange Commission
approval of a plan to set aside $40 million for brokers whose
orders were mishandled.  Share Decline  Facebook shares have plunged 24 percent since the offering,
compared with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index’s 6.3 percent
gain. Greifeld told reporters in May that the IPO price of $42
was “proper with respect to volume and price.”  Knight reported  second-quarter earnings  yesterday that fell
79 percent, including the loss on the Facebook IPO. Without the
loss and excluding a pretax investment gain, profit would have
risen 5.3 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We have been in reasonably consistent dialogue with
Nasdaq,” Joyce said yesterday during the earnings call. “We’re
going to be all eyes and ears waiting to watch and read and hear
about what they suggest in their filing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
 Erik Schatzker  in New York at 
eschatzker@bloomberg.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at   lthomasson@bloomberg.net  