-- National-Security Leaks Not From Pentagon, McKeon Says
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-19T19:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/national-security-leaks-not-from-pentagon-mckeon-says.html
House Armed Services Committee
Chairman Howard P. “Buck” McKeon said after meeting with
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  that he’s convinced recent
national-security leaks didn’t come from the Pentagon.  McKeon, a California Republican, said Panetta and other
Pentagon officials who testified in a closed-door hearing today
assured lawmakers they are taking steps to limit the potential
for leaks amid accusations the Obama administration has
disclosed sensitive information. McKeon declined to say where he
thinks the leaks originated.  “They assured us that they have taken steps to put in
procedures to try and limit those leaks,” McKeon said. His
panel also heard today from Army General Martin Dempsey,
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and Jeh Johnson, the
Pentagon’s general counsel.  Conflict has developed between the Obama administration and
some Republicans in Congress, who say the White House engaged in
intelligence leaks to bolster President  Barack Obama ’s national-
security credentials ahead of the Nov. 6 election.  Among unauthorized disclosures were that the U.S. and
 Israel  created the Stuxnet computer virus that damaged Iran’s
nuclear centrifuges, that Obama personally approved targets for
drone attacks, and that a plot by al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula to bomb a U.S.-bound airliner was foiled because
intelligence officials had infiltrated the terrorist group.  Flowing Freely  McKeon declined to discuss the possible motive behind
leaks, and said there was no discussion at the hearing about
what might be causing them. The committee’s top Democrat,
Representative  Adam Smith  of Washington, told reporters he is
convinced the leaks stem from improvements in technology in the
age of the Internet.  “It’s just that information is flowing more freely,” he
said.  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the top Republican on the
Senate Armed Services panel, and other Senate Republicans last
month called for a congressional probe into the unauthorized
leaks. Republicans have said the Justice Department inquiry into
leaks won’t be independent.  Obama has denied that White House officials leaked
classified information, calling the notion that they would do so
“offensive.”  Attorney General Eric Holder has named two U.S. attorneys
to investigate the leaks. Director of National Intelligence
James Clapper said last month that the intelligence community’s
inspector general will lead an independent investigation of
certain unauthorized disclosures if the Justice Department
decides not to prosecute.  Senate intelligence committee Chairman  Dianne Feinstein , a
California Democrat, says she wants to wait until the  Justice
Department  investigation is completed and doesn’t think a
congressional investigation is necessary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  