-- NBCUniversal Brings NBC News, MSNBC and CNBC Under Same Boss
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-19T20:07:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/nbcuniversal-brings-nbc-news-msnbc-and-cnbc-under-same-boss.html
Comcast Corp.’s (CMCSA)  NBCUniversal is
creating a division that will bring NBC News, CNBC, MSNBC and
the Weather Channel under the same boss to improve collaboration
amid pressure on some of its flagship news programs.  The unit is called the NBCUniversal News Group, Comcast
Chief Executive Officer Steve Burke said today in an e-mail to
NBC employees. Patricia Fili-Krushel will run the division and
serve as its chairman.  NBCUniversal is trying to improve coordination among its
channels amid pressure on one of its most popular programs. Last
month, Ann Curry was removed as Matt Lauer’s co-anchor on
“Today” after the program ended its 16-year run as the most-
watched morning show when ABC’s “Good Morning America” topped
it in weekly audience Nielsen ratings.  “We are creating a structure that should help foster even
more cooperation,” Burke said in the memo.  NBCUniversal also purchased Microsoft Corp.’s half of
 MSNBC .com earlier this week, replacing it with NBCNews.com and
promising a new MSNBC website in 2013.  Network Coordination  NBCUniversal, controlled by Comcast, will coordinate
between news channels during the London Olympics, which begin
this month, showing the games on a number of its networks.  The news group will also help set NBC’s agenda during the
 U.S. presidential election  later this year, Burke said.  Fili-Krushel is an executive vice president at NBCUniversal
and heads several divisions of the company including business
strategy, legal and human resources. She reports directly to
Burke.  Before joining NBCUniversal, Fili-Krushel was  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s executive vice president of administration for about 10
years. She was CEO of  WebMD (WBMD)  from 2000 to 2001 and president of
ABC Television Network from 1998 to 2000.  Steve Capus, Mark Hoffman and Phil Griffin, the heads of
NBC News, CNBC and MSNBC, respectively, will continue in their
roles. Capus and Hoffman will report directly to Fili-Krushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  