-- Netanyahu Says Attack in Bulgaria Carried Out by Hezbollah
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d   a n d   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r
-- 2012-07-19T16:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/netanyahu-says-bus-attack-in-bulgaria-carried-out-by-hezbollah.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  said Lebanon’s Iranian-backed Hezbollah organization
was behind the bombing that killed at least five Israeli
tourists in Bulgaria and vowed to track down the perpetrators.  “Yesterday’s attack was committed by Hezbollah -- the long
arm of Iran,” Netanyahu told reporters in a press conference in
Jerusalem today. “We will continue to pursue the attackers and
exact a heavy price from those who support them.”  The suicide attack on a bus at the airport in Burgas, a
popular Bulgarian vacation spot on the  Black Sea , killed five
Israelis, the Bulgarian bus driver and the attacker, according
to the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry.  The incident comes amid heightened tensions between  Israel 
and  Iran  over the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program. The U.S.
has urged Israel to refrain from a threatened military attack on
Iran to give time for negotiations and economic sanctions
imposed by the U.S. and its European allies to work.  “Any retaliation against Hezbollah is likely to take the
form of a covert operation, which means it won’t be immediate as
these things take time to set up,” said Shlomo Brom, senior
research fellow at the Institute for Strategic Studies at Tel
Aviv University. “A direct strike against a Hezbollah target in
Lebanon is unlikely now because it would be a serious escalation
and the government wouldn’t want to forestall any possible
future action against  Iran’s nuclear program .”  Terrorist Acts  In Tehran, Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  accused Israel of charging “other countries with
delusionary accusations” and said Iran condemns all terrorist
acts.  Israeli analysts have said that a recent campaign of
attacks against Israel may be a response to the killings of
several Iranian nuclear scientists that Iran’s leaders have
blamed on Israel. The Bulgarian attack came on the 18th
anniversary of the 1994 bombing of a Jewish  community center  in
 Buenos Aires , which Argentinian officials have accused Iran and
Hezbollah of carrying out.  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said in an e-mailed
statement that Israel will use “all means” to find those
behind the attack.  Long History  Israel has a history of patiently tracking down and killing
terrorists who attacked Israel citizens and Jewish targets. Then
Israeli Prime Minister Golda Meir authorized “Operation Wrath
of God,” a more than decade long covert operation after
terrorists from the Palestinian group Black September took
members of Israel’s team at the Summer  Olympic Games  in Munich,
Germany hostage on September 5, 1972. Eleven Israelis were
killed.  Hezbollah commander Imad Mughniyeh was killed in Damascus
in 2008 by a car bomb that the group blamed on Israel. Mughniyeh
starting in 1983 played a leading role in the seizure of
American hostages in Lebanon and the bombing of the U.S. Marine
barracks and the American Embassy in Beirut. Israel accused him
of involvement in the attack against the Jewish center in
Argentina that killed more than 120 people.  Israel’s secret services warned their Bulgarian
counterparts of a possible terrorist attack on Israeli tourists
several weeks ago, Bulgaria on Air television reported, citing
unidentified intelligence officials.  Suicide Bomber  The explosion was caused by a suicide bomber, Bulgaria’s
Interior Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov said in a television
broadcast from Burgas today. Surveillance cameras at the airport
showed an unidentified man joining the tourists as they were
coming out of the arrivals terminal, he said. A fake U.S.
driver’s license from the state of Michigan was found among his
remains, he said.  Bulgarian and Israeli secret service experts in partnership
with the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  and the U.S. Central
Intelligence Service are working together to establish his
identity through DNA tests, Tsvetanov said.  Israel will file a complaint with the  United Nations
Security Council  and will ask for sanctions on Iran, including a
ban on travel abroad by holders of Iranian passports and a ban
on Iranian airlines seeking to land at foreign airports, Deputy
Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon said.  Bulgaria stepped up security measures at all hotels on the
Black Sea with Israeli tourists, synagogues and the Israeli
Embassy in Sofia, as well as in airports, bus and railway
stations, the  Interior Ministry  said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  