-- New Jersey Jobless Rate Jumps to 9.6% as Work Force Grows
-- B y   S t a c i e   S e r v e t a h
-- 2012-07-19T19:18:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/new-jersey-jobless-rate-jumps-to-9-6-as-work-force-grows.html
New Jersey’s  unemployment rate 
jumped to 9.6 percent in June, its highest in almost two years,
as more people entered the  labor force .  The jobless rate, up from 9.2 percent in May, climbed even
as the state added 9,900 jobs. Employment rose 24,300 in May and
June, the largest two-month gain in more than 12 years,
according to a statement from the state’s Labor Department.  Governor  Chris Christie , a Republican who has said New
Jersey’s economy is in a “comeback,” declined to comment on
the figures today at a Trenton news conference before the
department’s news release.  Kevin Roberts , a Christie spokesman,
said that the higher rate is mainly attributable to more people
looking for work.  “ New Jerseyans  understand the trajectory our state is on
and believe in the New Jersey comeback,” Roberts said in an e-
mail. “They are confidently re-entering the labor market at a
level we haven’t see in well over three years.”  New Jersey’s so-called labor participation rate is 66.1
percent, above the national rate of 63.8 percent, according to
Roberts.  Private-industry job gains were recorded in leisure and
hospitality, boosted by seasonal hiring. Other industries that
added jobs included education and health services, professional
and business services and finance. Losses occurred in trade,
transportation and utilities; manufacturing and construction.  “New Jersey employers have been adding jobs at rates not
seen in years, and at a faster pace than the nation as a
whole,”  Charles Steindel , chief economist for the state’s
Treasury Department, said in the jobs release.  The U.S. jobless level was unchanged at 8.2 percent last
month. New Jersey’s unemployment rate has been at 9 percent or
higher since June 2009, and last reached 9.6 percent in July
2010, labor department  data  show.  For  New York  state, June’s jobless rate was 8.9 percent,
highest since January 2010, and up from 8.6 percent in May.  New York City’s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate
jumped to 10 percent, matching a post-recession peak reached in
the six months through February 2010, the state Labor Department
said today. A growing labor force over the past 12 months helped
push up the rate, the department said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stacie Servetah in Trenton at 
 sbabula@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  