-- New Oriental Rebounds as Tal Education Sinks: Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-19T21:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/new-oriental-rebounds-as-china-unicom-rallies-china-overnight.html
New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  surged from a five-year low, leading gains in Chinese
stocks traded in New York, after rebutting Muddy Waters LLC’s
report that the company inflated financial statements.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. added 2.3 percent to 86.65 yesterday,
snapping a three-day slump. New Oriental jumped 18 percent after
a nine-day slide sent shares to the lowest since March 2007.  TAL
Education Group (XRS)  tumbled to a record low as it said it was
contacted by the New York Stock Exchange about ‘unusual market
activity.’  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  rallied the most in two
weeks as third-generation mobile users increased.  New Oriental,  China ’s largest private education services
provider, said yesterday that  Muddy Waters ’ allegations in a
July 18 report contained errors and was misleading. Its American
depositary receipts capped a 57 percent two-day slump after
short seller Muddy Waters, whose call on Sino-Forest Corp.
sparked a 74 percent drop, questioned the company’s accounting
practices and the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission said
it’s investigating the company. The slump sent Chinese stocks to
 trade  at the smallest premium versus peers on the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index in two months.  “Any time Muddy Waters comes in and they take down another
Chinese stock, well, you can go back to buy more of those golden
ones,” Erik Lam, director of Asian equity sales at Auerbach
Grayson & Co. in New York, said by phone yesterday. The
situation is “good for other ADRs that have proved
themselves,” Lam said.  China ETF Gains  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced 2.2 percent to a two-
week high of $33.71. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.3
percent to 1,376.51, its third day of gains amid speculation
that disappointing economic data will lead the  Federal Reserve 
to add stimulus.  New Oriental’s ADRs bounced back to $11.20 yesterday, from
$9.50 in the previous day which was the lowest level since March
2007. Shares surged as much as 37 percent yesterday.  The company owned 664 schools and learning centers by the
end of May, and Muddy Waters’ allegation that a large part of
them are franchised outlets is wrong, Beijing-based New Oriental
said in yesterday’s statement. The education service company has
never counted the 21 cooperation facilities it has and their
student enrollments as its own, it said.  In a  report  July 18, Muddy Waters questioned the ownership
of some of New Oriental’s schools and the consolidation of their
financial statements with the parent company. A day earlier, the
Chinese company said the SEC issued an order of investigation to
review the consolidated earnings of its subsidiaries.  TAL Sinks  TAL, which provides after-school tutoring services, tumbled
14 percent to $7.56, the lowest price since its IPO in October
2010.  Beijing-based TAL said in a statement yesterday the New
York Stock Exchange contacted it “in accordance with its usual
practice” and the company’s policy is not to comment on
“unusual market activity or speculative matters.”  “If unusual market activity or news about a listed company
occurs, we contact the company for verification,” Keara
Everdell, a press officer for the New York Stock Exchange, wrote
in an e-mailed in response to questions by Bloomberg News
yesterday.  21Vianet Group Inc. (VNET) , a Beijing-based Internet data-center
services provider, rose for a second day, increasing 6.7 percent
to $10.03, the biggest advance in a month.  Internet users  in China rose 24.5 million in the first half
of this year to 538 million, the  China Internet Network
Information Center  said in a report on its website yesterday.  China Unicom, China Telecom  China Unicom, the nation’s second-largest wireless
operator, added a net 3.03 million 3G users to a total 57.53
million, according to its filing to the  Hong Kong  Stock Exchange
yesterday. The increase compared with a 2.73 million gain in May
and was the biggest monthly addition since January.  The company’s ADRs jumped 6.2 percent to $13.07, the most
in two weeks. The ADRs traded 1.2 percent above its Hong Kong
stock, the widest  premium  in four days.  China Telecom Corp. (CHA) , the nation’s biggest fixed-line phone
carrier, surged 5.2 percent to $46.49, the steepest rally since
November.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU)  gained after its chief financial
officer said new advertising software will boost sales. Qihoo,
which develops security software as well as computer desktop
applications, rallied 2.8 percent to $15.29, the biggest
increase in two weeks.  A tool that charges advertisers for each computer-mouse
click by users on some Web listings posted on Qihoo’s hao.360.cn
page will generate additional revenue after it was introduced
this month, CFO Alex Xu said in a phone interview yesterday.
Users who access the company’s services on mobile phones have
doubled to more than 100 million as of June, from about 50
million at the end of last year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  