-- New York Fed Backs Withdrawal Limit for Money Funds
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-07-19T19:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/new-york-fed-says-withdrawal-limit-makes-money-funds-safe.html
The Federal Reserve Bank of  New York 
said money-market fund investors should be prohibited from
withdrawing all their assets at once as a way to make the $2.5
trillion industry “safer and more fair.”  Money funds should set aside a portion of every investor’s
balance as a “minimum balance at risk” that could only be
withdrawn with a 30-day notice, the New York Fed’s staff said
today in a  report . The provision would reduce systemic risk and
protect small investors who don’t pull out of a troubled fund
quickly, according to the report.  “The delay would ensure that redeeming investors remain
partially invested in the fund long enough to share in any
imminent portfolio losses or costs arising from their
redemptions,” the bank said today in a statement.  The idea, opposed by the funds industry, is already part of
a proposal before the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
that would force money funds to float their share value or build
capital cushions and impose withdrawal restrictions, a person
familiar with the plan said last month. The agency hasn’t made
the proposal public and hasn’t scheduled a meeting for
commissioners to vote on it.  Regulators have worked on money fund proposals since the
September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve Primary
Fund triggered an industry run, helping to freeze global credit
markets.  Schapiro’s Campaign  The SEC toughened regulations in 2010 by raising liquidity
requirements, reducing average maturities and imposing new
disclosure rules. SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro , backed by Fed
officials, has called for additional rules that fund companies
say would destroy the product’s attraction to investors and deny
short-term funding to companies, municipalities and states.  The Reserve Primary Fund suffered a loss on debt issued by
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The first investors to request
withdrawals after Lehman’s bankruptcy got all their money out.
Slower-moving investors were trapped when the fund closed,
getting back about 99 percent of their cash in stages over
several months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  