-- New Zealand Judge Who Freed Dotcom to Decide Extradition
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-07-19T03:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/new-zealand-judge-who-freed-dotcom-to-decide-extradition.html
The  New Zealand  judge who freed
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom from jail in February will
oversee a U.S. request for his extradition after the presiding
official quit for having criticized U.S. copyright rules.  New Zealand District Judge Nevin Dawson was named yesterday
to replace  David Harvey , Neil Billington, a spokesman at the
court, said today in an e-mail. Harvey stepped down after
telling a public conference on July 12 the U.S. was New
Zealand’s “enemy” on copyright issues.  “He recognizes that remarks made in the context of a paper
he delivered on copyright law at a recent Internet conference
could reflect on his impartiality and that the appropriate
response is for him to step down,” the court’s Chief Judge  Jan-
Marie Doogue  said in response to an inquiry yesterday, according
to Billington.  Dotcom, 38, is wanted in the U.S. on charges he
orchestrated the biggest copyright infringement conspiracy in
that country’s history with his Megaupload file-sharing website
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. An
extradition hearing has been tentatively scheduled for March 25.  Paul Davison, Dotcom’s New Zealand lawyer, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mailed request for comment.  U.S. Filing  Dotcom’s U.S. lawyer Ira Rothken yesterday in a filing in
 Virginia  federal court urged the judge to throw out the
government’s case, saying Megaupload wasn’t properly notified of
the charges, by being served.  “Requirement of proper service stands as a jurisdictional
hurdle” for the government, Rothken wrote. “Until the
government clears this hurdle” according to the law,
“dismissal is required,” he wrote.  U.S. District Judge Liam O’Grady hasn’t ruled on Dotcom’s
request.  Harvey stepped down from the New Zealand case after his
comments at a Trans-Pacific Partnership conference were widely
reported in the media.  “We have meet the enemy and he is U.S.,” Harvey said,
according to  Time  magazine, one of a number of publications to
have reported the statement. Harvey was remarking that while it
is currently legal in New Zealand to strip off the region
protection on DVDs, which ordinarily prevent the discs from
being shown in foreign markets, an 11-nation trade agreement
currently being negotiated would make it illegal, as is the case
in the U.S., Time said.  Luxury Cars  German-born Dotcom was arrested at his residence in late
January. When police raided the mansion in the Auckland suburb
of Coatesville they seized 18  luxury vehicles , including a Rolls
Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe and a 1959 pink Cadillac.  Dotcom spent four weeks in jail before Dawson allowed his
release on bail, restricting him to his rented NZ$30 million
($24 million) home in an Auckland suburb.  “A suspicion based only on the knowledge that the
applicant is very wealthy is not enough” to deny bail, Dawson
wrote in his Feb. 22 ruling. Dawson concluded Dotcom wasn’t a
flight risk.  Helen Winkelmann, the chief justice of the  High Court  of
New Zealand, which is an intermediate court, ruled on June 28
that warrants used by police to search Dotcom’s home and seize
his property were overly broad and invalid.  Dotcom was indicted in the U.S. on charges including
conspiracy to commit racketeering, conspiracy to commit
copyright infringement and conspiracy to commit  money laundering .
The racketeering and money laundering charges each carry a
maximum sentence of 20 years in prison.  The New Zealand case is between Kim Dotcom and Attorney-
General. Civ 2012-404-1928. High Court of New Zealand (Auckland).
The U.S. case is  United States of America  v. Kim Dotcom. 1:12-
cr-00003. U.S. District Court Eastern District of Virginia
(Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  