-- New York Falls to Third in Foreign Commercial Real Estate Buying
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-07-19T12:32:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/new-york-falls-to-third-in-foreign-commercial-real-estate-buying.html
New York  fell to the third-most
popular city for overseas commercial real estate buyers in the
second quarter, trailing  London  and Paris, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis failed to deter purchasers,  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc. said.  The U.K. capital topped the list, with foreign investment
rising 32 percent to $8.67 billion in the three months through
June, the broker said in a presentation today. Foreign buyers
spent $4.7 billion in Paris, about 50 percent more than a year
ago. New York, which topped the ranking a year ago, had a 43
percent drop to $4.34 billion.  London “is the most liquid market in the world,” Robert Stassen, a research director at Chicago-based Jones Lang, said
on a call with reporters.  The Shard, western Europe’s tallest building at 1,016 feet
(310 meters), was inaugurated in London July 5 and is among five
new skyscraper projects that will add about 3.8 million square
feet (350,000 square meters) of prime space within a mile of the
 Bank of England . Central London’s office vacancy rate fell to
5.4 percent from 5.8 percent through the first quarter of this
year, according to  Jones Lang .  “For the first time, with the global capital coming into
Europe, we actually see premiums for lot size” in London,
Stassen said. “The larger the lot size, the more money that’s
chasing it.”  Global Investment  Investors spent about 50 billion euros ($62 billion) on
European commercial real estate in the first half, 9 percent
less than a year earlier. For the year, investment will fall 10
percent from the 119.7 billion euros last year, partly because
of a stronger dollar, Jones Lang estimates. Investment globally
may meet last year’s total of $400 billion, Jones Lang said in
the presentation.  Overseas investors have been buying in Paris after tax
rules that favored domestic investors expired, Stassen said. The
amount of French buyers of income-producing buildings in their
home country “has fallen dramatically” to 40 percent compared
with as much as 70 percent last year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 