-- No Inflation With Record-Low Yields Boosting Emerging Bonds
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-07-19T14:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/no-inflation-with-yields-at-record-low-bolstering-emerging-bonds.html
Bond  yields  in  emerging markets  are
falling to record lows as inflation tumbles compared with
benchmark interest rates, providing policy makers with more
opportunities to lower borrowing costs.  The GBI-EM Global Diversified Index on emerging-market bond
yields declined 79 basis points, or 0.79 percentage point, this
year to 5.79 percent, the lowest since JPMorgan Chase & Co.
started to compile the data in 2003. Consumer price increases in
15 developing nations from  Brazil  to  China  slowed to an average
4 percent last month, even as central banks cut the mean policy
rate to 5.5 percent. The 1.5 percentage-point gap was the widest
since December 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slower inflation and weaker economic growth will prompt
policy makers to reduce interest rates further, spurring gains
in developing-nation bonds, according to GAM Investment and
JPMorgan Chase & Co. That’s a turnaround from four years ago,
when inflation exceeded benchmark borrowing costs and investors
fled emerging markets as the global economy sank into a
recession.  “Rates are coming down and there are no signs of
inflation, which is the classic bond bull market type of
territory,”  Paul McNamara , who oversees $6.5 billion in
emerging-market debt as a money manager at GAM Investment, said
in a telephone interview from London. “Emerging-market bonds
still offer pretty good value.”  Record Low  South Africa’s central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark
interest rate by half a percentage point today to 5 percent.
Yields on rand-denominated bonds due in 2021 fell 21 basis
points to a record low of 6.58 percent, extending their drop
this year to 137 basis points.  The JPMorgan GBI-EM Global Diversified Index returned 8.2
percent in local-currency terms this year.  U.S. government debt 
has gained 3.4 percent, with yields falling 20 basis points to
0.85 percent, according to Bank of America Corp.’s U.S. Treasury
Master Index.  Central banks in the U.S., the U.K. and the euro area have
reduced benchmark borrowing costs to levels at least 1.7
percentage points below inflation. In Brazil,  Russia  and China,
borrowing costs are more than 3 percentage points above
inflation, the highest real rates among the Group of 20 nations,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  With  global growth  slowing, emerging-market bonds have
tracked developed nations’ debt, a change from the past when
investors abandoned all but the safest assets during economic
disruptions. Investors are more confident that the countries can
repay debt and cut interest rates without igniting inflation,
according to Pioneer Investments.  Risk Perception  “In the past when there’s negative news, you want to sell
everything, the bonds, currencies and stocks” in developing
nations, Hakan Aksoy, who helps oversees 2.8 billion euros ($3.4
billion) in emerging-market debt at Pioneer, said in a telephone
interview from London. “Now, you don’t have the same feeling.
The perception of risk has changed.”  Average yields  on Brazilian bonds dropped 198 basis points
this year to 8.61 percent and reached a record low of 8.56
percent on July 16. China’s slid 30 basis points, or 0.30
percentage point, to 3.1 percent and hit a three-year low of 3
percent this month.  Brazil Rates  When global economic growth collapsed in 2001, yields on
 two-year Brazilian notes  jumped 425 basis points to 21.4 percent
as the central bank raised its benchmark  Selic rate  five times
to slow capital outflows, support the currency and combat
inflation.  Argentina  defaulted on $95 billion in bonds that
year. In 2008, the JPMorgan index’s yield surged to a record 9.7
percent after Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s bankruptcy
prompted investors to pull money out of emerging markets.  The JPMorgan index’s yield fell a record 61 basis points in
2010 as inflation allowed central banks to keep benchmark
interest rates close to record lows through the first half. The
gauge returned 11 percent that year, the most since 2004.  Depreciating emerging-market currencies have eroded returns
for foreign investors. The  JPMorgan index  advanced 1 percent
during the past year when translated into dollars, compared with
a gain of 13 percent in local-currency terms. Brazil’s real, the
South African rand and the Hungarian forint weakened at least 15
percent during the period.  Commodities Prices  Further currency declines and rising food prices may limit
bond gains, according to UBS AG, which advised its clients this
month against adding emerging-market securities. A food price
“shock” has the potential to “very quickly alter the
trajectory” of inflation, Bhanu Baweja, a London-based
strategist, wrote in a report yesterday.  Corn futures rose to a four-year high this week, while
soybean contracts became the most expensive on record and wheat
was the costliest since 2008 as a U.S. drought damaged crops.
Food and energy costs account for an average 36 percent of the
consumer price indexes in emerging markets, Bank of America said
in a December report.  The drop in yields is “stretched” as a second-half
rebound in economic growth may limit the scope for further
 interest-rate  cuts, said Peter Eerdmans, who oversees about $11
billion as head of emerging-market debt at Investec Asset
Management Ltd. The London-based money manager has been reducing
holdings of bonds in Mexico and South Africa as yields fall.  Weak Growth  “If we do see a pickup in growth in the second half of the
year, there’s no reason for central banks to cut rates,” said
Eerdmans.  Jan Loeys, the chief market strategist at JPMorgan in  New
York , says policy makers will keep reducing borrowing costs. He
sees “greater opportunities” for investors in emerging-market
bonds than in the developed world.  “Continued weak global growth and easier monetary policy
are ideal for fixed income,” Loeys wrote in a July 13 report.
He recommended holding more local emerging-market bonds than are
represented in benchmark indexes while hedging currency
movements.  The  European debt crisis  is eroding exports from developing
nations, curbing growth and keeping inflation in check. China’s
expansion has slowed for six straight quarters, dragging the
 consumer price index  to a 29-month low. Brazil’s retail sales
fell 0.8 percent in May, the biggest drop since November 2008,
while  inflation  declined to a two-year low of 4.92 percent last
month.  Brazil Outlook  Brazil cut its benchmark interest rate to a record 8
percent on July 11 and China reduced its one-year lending rate
for the second time in a month to 6 percent on July 6. Eighteen
developing nations have cut borrowing costs so far this year,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Brazil’s central bank signaled it will cut interest rates
at least once more even as it predicts that economic activity
accelerating during the remainder of the year, according to the
minutes of its July 10-11 meeting released today.  The Turkish central bank held its benchmark one-week repo
rate at 5.75 percent today, in line with the forecasts of all
eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Countries including China, India, South Korea,  Hungary ,
 Israel , Russia, Brazil and  Chile  will lower interest rates
further in 2012, according to Bank of America.  IMF Forecasts  Emerging markets should “stand ready to adjust policies”
as growth slows, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a July
16 report. The Washington-based lender cut its 2012 growth
forecast for developing economies to 5.6 percent from the
previous estimate of 5.7 percent in April.  “The slowing is at its initial stage yet and inflation is
not really a theme,” said Phillip Blackwood, who oversees $2.9
billion in emerging-market debt as a managing partner at EM
Quest Capital LLP in London. “We see the slowdown has further
way to go across the emerging markets, but we are not too
scared. That will at least give some further drops in bond
yields.”  Blackwood said  South Africa ’s local bonds are among his
favorites as they haven’t fully reflected “benign” growth.
Yields on JPMorgan’s Index of  South African securities  dropped
94 basis points this year and reached an all-time low of 7.02
percent on July 17. Citigroup Inc. said last month it would
include the debt in its World Government Bond Index, fueling
demand from money managers who track the gauge.  Boosting Returns  With 10-year U.S. Treasury and German bund yields falling
below 1.5 percent, investors are seeking alternatives to boost
returns. After accounting for inflation, U.S. benchmark debt has
a yield of negative 21 basis points.  The average yields  of
developing-nation bonds are 429 basis points higher than those
of 10-year U.S. Treasuries, compared with the average spread of
397 during the past five years.  Government debt in developing nations amounts to 36 percent
of this year’s gross domestic product, compared with 107 percent
for advanced economies, according to IMF estimates.  Bill Gross , who runs the world’s largest mutual fund at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said he favors Mexico’s bonds
over German bunds as the Latin American country has lower debt
levels and higher yields. Mexico’s BBB rating from  Standard &
Poor’s  is eight levels below that of  Germany , the largest
economy in  Europe .  “Let’s see: would I rather own German or Mexican 10-yr
bonds? 1.5% or 5.7%? Huge potential debt/GDP or half that of
U.S.?” Gross said in a posting on the Twitter website on June
18. “Duh.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ; 