-- Nokia Jumps Most Since 2008 as Lumia Sales Top Estimates
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-07-19T15:43:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/nokia-reports-lumia-sales-topping-estimates-as-losses-widen.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  jumped the most in 4 1/2
years after sales of its flagship smartphone exceeded analysts’
estimates, signaling the former global handset leader is making
progress with a plan to stem revenue and market-share declines.  Sales of the Lumia phone increased to 4 million units in
the second quarter from more than 2 million in the previous
period, Nokia said today. The Espoo, Finland-based company,
which lost its 14-year run as the phone-industry leader this
year, still projected continuing losses at its handset business.  Rising Lumia sales are a bright spot for a company
struggling to return to profitability as it reported a fifth
consecutive quarter of plunging revenue. Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Elop is betting on the Lumia running  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) 
software to halt gains by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets using
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, including  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy series.  “It’s good to see Nokia is still hanging in there,”
Riikka Tuominen, a credit analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Helsinki,
said in an interview. Still, “it’s hard to write off the
uncertainty.”  Nokia rose 12 percent to close at 1.54 euros in Helsinki,
the biggest jump since January 2008. The  stock  had slid 64
percent this year through yesterday to the lowest level since
1994. Nokia has lost about 95 billion euros ($116 billion) in
value since Apple introduced the iPhone in 2007 and now has a
market capitalization of 5.7 billion euros.  Elop’s Overhaul  Elop, a former Microsoft executive who took over in 2010,
has announced more than 20,000 job cuts and shuttered production
and research sites as part of his turnaround plan. He abandoned
Nokia’s home-grown operating system to bet on Redmond,
Washington-based Microsoft’s Windows Phone software.  “The market is reacting positively because of the Lumia
numbers,” said Sami Sarkamies, a Nordea analyst in Helsinki.
Analysts on average projected that Nokia would ship 3.8 million
Lumia phones, Sarkamies said.  Elop is counting on the Lumia to differentiate Nokia from
smartphone market leaders Apple and Android. Last week, the
price of the Lumia 900 was cut in half at  AT&T Inc. (T)  to $49.99
with a two-year contract in a sign the device is struggling to
pull customers away from iPhone and Android models.  The current Lumia versions risk becoming less attractive
because they can’t be upgraded to run the Windows Phone 8
software due out later this year. Elop said today new Lumia
activations have been “stable to up” since Microsoft announced
the new software last month. He said Nokia will keep selling
current versions even after the new software is rolled out.  New Features  “Because they will continue to get upgrades and new
capabilities, we expect to be selling a number of those for a
substantial period of time, including well after Windows 8
ships,” Elop told reporters on a conference call.  Elop also said Nokia is working with Microsoft on hardware
that uses Windows Phone 8, declining to say when the company is
planning to introduce its first product running the software.
The company has scheduled this year’s  Nokia World  event for
September, and it has used the occasion in the past to showcase
new products.  Nokia, whose long-term debt has a junk status by the three
largest rating services, said the adjusted operating loss at its
devices business was equivalent to 9.1 percent of revenue. The
margin for the current quarter will be within a range of 4
percentage points more or less than that level, Nokia said.  Net Cash  The second-quarter net loss widened to 1.41 billion euros
from 368 million euros. Analysts predicted a loss of 641.1
million euros, according to the average of  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue tumbled 19 percent to 7.54 billion euros,
compared with the 7.32 billion-euro estimate.  Nokia reported net cash of 4.2 billion euros. Analysts
projected about 3.7 billion euros on average, Sarkamies said.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the network-gear venture Nokia owns
with Siemens AG, returned to profit when excluding some items.
Adjusted operating profit at the business was 27 million euros
after a loss of 147 million euros in the first quarter.  The cost of insuring Nokia bonds using credit-default swaps
headed for the first decline in five days, falling as much as 28
basis points, or 2.2 percent, to 1,212 basis points, according
to Bloomberg prices. The insurance cost reached a record high of
1,240 basis points yesterday after having risen 249 percent this
year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Fallen Leader  Total smartphone sales fell 39 percent to 10.2 million
units and more basic handsets rose by 2.4 percent to 73.5
million units. Shipments continued to slump in Europe and  China 
while sales in  North America  were little changed from the first
quarter.  Nokia lost its position as the biggest maker of mobile
phones to Samsung this year, after the Suwon, South Korea-based
company sold 93.5 million units in the first quarter, according
to  Strategy Analytics .  Nokia needs to improve its devices’ features and consider
lower prices to become more competitive, said Mats Granryd, CEO
of  Tele2 AB (TEL2B) ,  Sweden ’s second-largest mobile carrier.  “We didn’t have a Nokia phone in our top 10 list this
quarter and we only had one model last quarter,” Granryd said
in a phone interview from  Stockholm  today. “Now, it is about 75
percent Samsung and iPhones that make the list. We would be
happy to see Nokia back in our top 10, but they have to work on
the user interface and pricing first.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  