-- Norway Banks See Tighter Lending Standards to Businesses
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-07-19T10:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/norway-banks-see-tighter-lending-standards-to-businesses.html
Norwegian banks predict they will
continue to tighten credit standards to businesses through
September, a  central bank survey  showed.  The banks will keep credit standard for households
unchanged in the third quarter after leaving them broadly
unchanged in the second quarter and tightening them earlier this
year, the survey also showed. Credit demand from households and
corporations is expected to remain steady in the third quarter
after increasing “slightly,” the survey showed.  Near record-low  interest rates  and falling unemployment
have fueled household credit growth and boosted  home prices  in
the world’s third-richest country per capita. Norway’s Financial
Supervisory Authority, which has said the overheated property
market is the biggest domestic threat to the economy, last year
pushed through guidelines for banks, urging them not to loan
more than 85 percent of a home’s value.  Stricter standards have so far failed to cool the  property
market  and prices rose an annual 7.7 percent in June, according
to the  Real Estate Brokers Association .  Growth High  “We still need to see the effect in the housing market
from this tightening,” Katrine Boye, senior economist at Nordea
Bank AB in Oslo, said by phone. “We still see quite strong
price growth and credit growth is also high.”  The central bank last month kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged at 1.5 percent, after two cuts since December.
The bank also signaled it may start raising rates as early as
the end of the year, earlier than previously projected.  The survey showed that demand for ordinary residential
mortgages, fixed-rate loans and home equity credit lines rose
last quarter while demand for first-home mortgages fell.  “Capital adequacy and FSA guidelines for prudent
residential mortgage lending were identified as factors
affecting credit standards,” according to the survey.  Norges Bank’s bank lending survey was conducted from June
29 to July 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Brussels at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  