-- Novartis Profit Beats Estimates as New-Drug Sales Climb
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-19T16:17:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/novartis-profit-beats-estimates-as-new-products-offset-generics.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  reported second-quarter
profit that declined less than analysts forecast, helped by
increasing sales of new products such as the Gilenya treatment
for multiple sclerosis and the Afinitor cancer drug.  Earnings excluding some costs fell 6 percent to $3.36
billion, or $1.38 a share, from $3.56 billion, or $1.48 a year
ago, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said in a statement
today. Analysts predicted profit of $1.33 a share, the average
of 14  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings fell because of
competition from generic drugs and the strength of the dollar.  Chief Executive Officer  Joe Jimenez  is banking on new
treatments to make up for declining sales of Diovan, for  blood
pressure , and Gleevec, a cancer treatment. The two drugs, the
company’s  biggest-selling products , generated revenue of $10
billion last year and may reap just $5.4 billion by 2015 after
losing patent protection.  “Our pipeline is delivering,” Jimenez said on a call with
reporters today. “Twelve months from now we will have most of
the Diovan patent expiration in our base and the company will
return to a growth trajectory that is consistent with its
underlying growth rate today.”  Novartis, Europe’s largest drugmaker by revenue, said it’s
“on track” to achieve its forecast for sales this year to be
in line with 2011 at constant exchange rates, while the
company’s core operating margin will be “slightly below” last
year’s.  Dollar Drag  Novartis rose 1.7 percent to 56 Swiss francs in Zurich,
giving the company a market value of 152 billion francs ($155
billion). The stock has returned 9 percent this year including
reinvested dividends,  compared with  a 15 percent return for the
Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceuticals Index of 19 companies.  Sales fell 4 percent to $14.3 billion, meeting the average
analyst  forecast . The company gets about  a third  of revenue from
Europe, and reports earnings in dollars. The U.S. currency’s
strength against the euro, franc and British pound since last
year’s second quarter stripped 5 percentage points from sales,
Novartis said.  The dollar index, which reflects the value of the dollar
against major world currencies, was on average 8.1 percent
higher in the second quarter than a year earlier.  If average exchange rates for June persisted for the rest
of the year, 2012 sales would be cut by about 4 percent and
operating income would be reduced 3 percent to 4 percent,
Novartis said. The company had previously said it expected an
impact from currencies of 2 to 3 percent for both sales and
operating income.  Diovan Plunges  Revenue in the pharmaceutical division fell 1 percent to
$8.3 billion. Excluding Diovan sales, which dropped 16 percent
to $1.3 billion after it started facing competition from cheaper
copycat pills in Europe in November, the division grew 8
percent. The pill loses U.S. patent protection in September.  Sales of Gilenya were $283 million, compared with $79
million a year ago, and are on track to exceed $1 billion this
year, Jimenez said. The drug was approved in the U.S. in 2010 as
the first oral treatment for multiple sclerosis, and cleared for
sale in Europe in March 2011. Revenue from the eye treatment
Lucentis advanced 12 percent to $604 million.  Afinitor, approved to treat cancers of the kidney and
pancreas, climbed 72 percent to $175 million. European
regulators recommended approval for Afinitor in  breast cancer 
last month and the company expects U.S. approval in the “near
term,”  David Epstein , head of the pharmaceutical division, said
on a call with analysts today. The drug may reap “well above $1
billion” in sales for breast cancer alone, Epstein said.  Extra Spending  Novartis plans to spend as much as $300 million this year
to increase sales of new drugs including Afinitor, Jimenez said.  “I just feel like it would be a mistake not to take
advantage of what we have in front of us,” he said on the
analyst call. “Not everybody in this industry has this level of
innovation.”  Sales of consumer-health products, which include the NoDoz
stimulant and Excedrin headache pills, plunged 24 percent to
$904 million. The company in January temporarily closed a
factory in Lincoln,  Nebraska , because of quality concerns.  ‘Prolonged Difficulties’  Novartis expects to resume sales in October of Excedrin,
the athlete’s foot gel Lamisil, and Sentinel, an anti-flea
product for dogs. Those three products account for about 30
percent of $1 billion in annual sales that the plant represents,
said Brian McNamara, the head of the consumer products division.  The “prolonged difficulties at the Lincoln plant are
disappointing,”  Alistair Campbell , an analyst at Berenberg Bank
in  London , said in an e-mail today. There’s “no room to raise
guidance” because of the continuing problems, he said.  Alcon, the eye health unit that is Novartis’s second-
biggest division, reported sales of $2.6 billion, up 1 percent.
Demand for allergy treatments declined because of a mild allergy
season in the U.S., Novartis said.  Sales in the generic drug unit Sandoz fell 13 percent to
$2.1 billion on greater competition for its version of Sanofi’s
Lovenox.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  