-- NYC Jobless Rate Climbs to 10%, Highest Since February 2010
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-19T19:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/nyc-jobless-rate-climbs-to-10-highest-in-more-than-two-years.html
New York  City’s seasonally adjusted
 unemployment rate  jumped to 10 percent in June, matching a post-
recession peak reached in the six months through February 2010,
the state Labor Department said.  The rate climbed from 9.7 percent in May, even as the
city’s private employers added about 11,500 jobs,  James Brown , a
labor department economist, said today in an e-mail. The rate is
up from 8.9 percent a year ago.  A growing city labor force over the past 12 months helped
push up the unemployment rate, which is an estimated ratio of
the people not working as a percentage of the total seeking
employment, the department said.  “Despite strong  job creation  by  New York City ’s
businesses, the number of city residents with jobs is
essentially flat over the prior 12 months,” Brown said.  The department recorded gains in professional, scientific
and technical services, and retail. Industries that showed
weakness include construction and wholesale trade, and leisure
and hospitality, which usually shows gains in June, Brown said.  The city came through the recession better than the rest of
the U.S. and has more private-industry jobs now than ever, Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  said in response to the report.  “As fast as New York City is creating jobs, people are
entering the labor market even faster, which indicates optimism
and confidence” in the city’s future, Bloomberg said in a
statement. “We will not be satisfied until everyone who is
searching for work finds it.”  For New York state, June’s jobless rate was 8.9 percent, up
from 8.6 percent in May, while the U.S. rate stood at 8.2
percent, the department said.  The mayor is the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent company Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  