-- Obama in Close Race With Romney in NY Times/CBS Poll
-- B y   D o n   F r e d e r i c k
-- 2012-07-19T00:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/obama-in-close-race-with-romney-in-ny-times-cbs-poll.html
Voter disapproval of President
 Barack Obama ’s handling of the economy is hindering his re-
election prospects and keeping close his race with Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney , a  New York  Times/CBS News national poll
shows.  Romney is backed by 47 percent in the survey released
today, Obama by 46 percent in figures that include voters who
said they leaned toward one of the candidates. Excluding those
voters, Romney led with 45 percent to 43 percent for Obama.  The results, while within the poll’s error margin of plus-
or-minus 3 percentage points, represent the first time Romney
has had an edge in the Times/CBS survey since he emerged as the
presumptive Republican nominee in early April.  Obama led by 3 percentage points in a Times/CBS poll in
March. The two were tied in an April survey with 46 percent
each.  Since that poll, voter attitudes toward Obama’s economic
record have declined. In the latest survey, 55 percent said they
disapproved of his handling of the economy, while 39 percent
expressed approval. In April, 48 percent disapproved and 44
percent approved.  In the latest poll, 49 percent said Romney would do a
better job in dealing with the economy and unemployment, while
41 percent said Obama would. In the April survey, 33 percent
said they saw improvement in the economy compared with 24
percent now.  Obama has an advantage on the question of concern for
average  Americans, with 63 percent saying the president does
care while 55 percent said that of Romney. The president’s
campaign has been focusing on depicting Romney as out of touch
with most Americans.  The poll of 982 registered voters was conducted July 11-16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Frederick in Washington at 
 dfrederick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  