-- Obama Appeals for Votes in Florida by Hitting Romney on Medicare
-- B y   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/obama-hits-romney-on-taxes-medicare-in-pitch-to-florida-voters.html
President  Barack Obama  took aim at
 Mitt Romney  on taxes and Medicare in making an appeal to voters
in  Florida , the biggest swing state prize, while the Republican
candidate pressed his case that Obama is hostile to business.  Obama yesterday began a two-day trip through Florida,
twinning criticism of Romney’s support for  tax cuts  to benefit
the top earners with a warning that the Republican’s proposals
would force those 65 and older to pay more for health care.  “It’s wrong to ask seniors to pay more for Medicare just
so millionaires and billionaires can pay less in taxes,” Obama
told a crowd of supporters in Jacksonville.  Romney countered with a brief appearance at a truck service
firm in his home state of  Massachusetts  and taped interviews
with three Florida radio stations. He repeated the accusation he
made earlier this week in Pennsylvania and  Ohio  that Obama
believes entrepreneurs should share credit for their success
with the government.  “The president is extraordinarily out of touch with how
the American economy works,” Romney said on Tampa station 820
News. “It is a foreign concept to think that government is the
center of America’s economy.”  Florida, with 29 electoral votes, plays a central role in
the strategies of both presidential campaigns. While Obama won
Florida by 2.8 percentage points in 2008, polls show him
deadlocked with Romney.  Economic Concerns  The economy is shaping the race in Florida as it is
nationally. The state’s  unemployment  rate was 8.6 percent in
May, down from a high of 11.4 percent in January and February
2010. By comparison, the rate nationally was 8.2 percent in June
and hit 10 percent in October 2009. Florida had the second
highest number of foreclosures, 92,000, for the 12 months ending
in May 2012, behind California, according to the real estate
data firm CoreLogic Inc.  Florida ranks 28th in economic health according to the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States from the first quarter
of 2011 through the first quarter of this year. The index is
based on the performance of local-company shares, tax
collections,  home prices , mortgage delinquencies, job growth and
personal income.  Romney Response  The Romney campaign sent out an e-mail to reporters listing
the number of jobs lost in the four cities the president is
visiting.  “Despite a pro-growth governor and legislature that is
laser-focused on  job creation , Florida -- like the rest of the
nation -- is saddled with President Obama’s job-killing and
business-discouraging economic policies,” the campaign said in
the statement.  Obama, seeking to deflect attacks, said in Jacksonville
that he expected the task of reviving growth following the
recession that ended in June 2009 would last beyond a single
term.  “Over the course of the next four months, the other side
will spend more money than we have ever seen in our lifetimes on
ads that tell you the same thing you’ve been hearing for
months,” Obama said of the prelude to November’s election.
“They know their plan isn’t going to sell so all they’ll keep
doing is saying ’the economy’s not where it should be and it’s
all Obama’s fault.’”  Medicare Debate  Obama aimed part of his remarks at older voters, a key
constituency in the state. Floridians age 65 and above comprise
17.6 percent of the state’s population, compared with the U.S.
average of 13.3 percent, according to Census Bureau data, and
they turn out to vote at proportionately higher rates than other
age groups.  Obama said Romney supports turning Medicare, the government
insurance program for those 65 years of age and older, into a
voucher program.  “So if that voucher isn’t worth enough to buy the health
insurance that’s on the market, you’re out of luck, you’re on
your own,” Obama said. He said one study said it would mean an
additional cost of $6,400 for Medicare, compared with today.  He also sought to assure Jewish voters of his support for
 Israel  in the aftermath of a terrorist attack in  Bulgaria  that
killed five Israelis and instability caused by upheaval in
 Syria .  “Now’s the time to make sure that we are doing everything
we can to protect Israel’s security, and I want you to know that
that’s something that should transcend politics,” he said in
 West Palm Beach . “That’s not a Republican or Democratic
issue.”  Key State  Obama’s itinerary took him to Jacksonville and West Palm
Beach yesterday, stops that included fundraisers, and he will be
in  Fort Myers  and  Orlando  today.  Illustrating the importance of the state, Obama is making
his 10th trip to Florida since declaring his re-election bid in
April 2011 and his seventh this year. Vice President  Joe Biden 
has been dispatched to the state three times since April. Since
declaring his candidacy in June 2011, Romney has visited Florida
13 times.  A Mason-Dixon Polling & Research survey released July 14
showed Obama with 46 percent of the vote among registered
Florida voters compared with Romney’s 45 percent. On the
economy, the overriding issue of the election, 35 percent say
the president’s policies have helped while 41 percent said
they’ve made it worse. The telephone survey of 800 registered
Florida voters was conducted July 9-11 and has a 3.5 percentage
point margin of error.  Negative Advertisements  Both campaigns are hammering each other with negative ads
in the state, according to data from Kantar Media’s CMAG, which
tracks campaign advertising. Obama’s campaign aired 11,586 ads
on Florida TV stations in the 30-day period ended July 16, of
which 81 percent were negative, and Romney’s campaign aired
4,863 ads on Florida TV stations, of which 4,765 were negative,
or 98 percent.  Most of Obama’s better than 2-1 advantage over Romney on
the Florida airwaves was offset by Republican-leaning outside
groups, including Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies, a
nonprofit group co-founded by Republican strategist  Karl Rove ,
and Americans for Prosperity, which has ties to Koch Industries
Inc. executives Charles and  David Koch . The two groups together
ran ads 4,101 times. Restore Our Future, a pro-Romney super-PAC,
ran ads 1,523 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kate Andersen Brower in West Palm Beach at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  