-- Odessa Joins U.S. Cities Boosted by Energy as Others Lag
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-07-19T18:27:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/odessa-joins-u-s-cities-boosted-by-energy-as-others-lag.html
Odessa,  Texas , driven by a resurgent
oil industry, will grow fastest this year among U.S. cities,
followed by energy boomtowns Lafayette, Louisiana, and Bismarck,
North Dakota, a new study shows.  Most cities will trail the nation’s 2 percent economic
expansion projected for this year, according to the study by IHS
Inc. for the  U.S. Conference of Mayors  in  Washington . The report
also warned of growing traffic congestion and its costs.  “Lafayette, Odessa and Bismarck will each see robust
activity in natural resources,” according to the IHS Global
Insight report, with energy industries fueling job growth in the
Louisiana city and oil production helping in West Texas and
North Dakota. Gains in manufacturing as the national economy
recovers are forecast to boost Rust Belt cities led by the
Elkhart-Goshen area of northern  Indiana .  While growth is projected to continue nationwide, the
outlook for most cities varies, with faster expansion in those
with economies rooted in professional, business, health and
education services, according to IHS. The average rate will be
1.8 percent for the 363 cities studied, with 70 percent
expanding 2 percent or less this year. Contractions are forecast
in dozens of cities from Reno,  Nevada  to Dalton,  Georgia .  Fracking Role  New oil- and gas-extraction techniques such as hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, have revived  output  in Texas, which
produces the most crude of any U.S. state. It is also fueling a
boom in North Dakota, where the Bakken shale-oil formation that
reaches into  Canada  may contain 4 billion barrels of reserves.  Growth is projected at 9.7 percent this year in Odessa, a
city of about 100,000 where employment is expected to rise 7.2
percent this year. Expansion is forecast at 7.5 percent in
Lafayette and 7.3 percent in Bismarck, according to the study.
The Elkhart-Goshen economy will increase 7.3 percent.  Expansion will test transportation facilities particularly
in the top 15 metro areas by population, according to IHS. The
 New York  region, leading the list with an economy larger than
Mexico’s, will grow 1.8 percent this year and add more than
900,000 jobs during this decade, the study shows. Employment in
second-largest  Los Angeles , where the economy will expand 1.7
percent in 2012, is forecast to increase by 500,000 by 2020.  Congestion Downside  “Congestion costs,” measured in time and fuel, for each
commuter exceeded $1,000 a year in the largest metro areas.  The Chicago area, with the highest congestion costs of
$1,568 per commuter, is forecast to experience a 16 percent
population increase to 11 million by 2042. The study projects
the fastest rates of  population growth , which will add to
clogged traffic, in cities in the South and Southwest, such as
 Orlando ,  Florida , and Phoenix.  Increased investment in transportation infrastructure will
help cities continue to lead the nation’s growth, according to a
group of mayors who briefed reporters on the report today in
Philadelphia. U.S. metro areas accounted for 84 percent of the
nation’s job gains since the bottom of the recession, according
to the study.  “When you invest in cities, you invest in the recovery of
America and put Americans back to work,” said Philadelphia
Mayor Michael Nutter, president of the conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  