-- Oil Rises to Two-Month High on Rising Mideast Tension
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-07-19T20:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/oil-rises-to-seven-week-high-on-geopolitical-risk-stimulus-bets.html
Oil advanced to the highest level in
two months on rising concern that instability in the Middle East
will disrupt supplies from a region responsible for about one-
third of world production.  Prices gained for a seventh day after Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  blamed Lebanon’s Iranian-backed
Hezbollah organization for yesterday’s killing of Israeli
tourists in  Bulgaria  and threatened a forceful response. In
Damascus, Syrian government forces battled rebels in retaliation
for a blast that killed three top anti-insurgency leaders.  “People are very concerned about what’s going on in the
Middle East and that’s giving oil a boost,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-
based energy consultant. “Iran is back in the spotlight and the
situation in  Syria  is deteriorating. It increases geopolitical
risk in the region.”  Crude for August delivery increased $2.79, or 3.1 percent,
to settle at $92.66 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The price has risen 10 percent in seven days of gains,
the longest such streak since Feb. 24. Prices are down 6.2
percent this year.  Brent oil for September advanced $2.64, or 2.5 percent, to
settle at $107.80 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  ‘Geopolitical Premium’  Five Israeli tourists, a Bulgarian bus driver and the
assailant were killed in the suicide attack yesterday at the
airport in Burgas, a popular holiday spot on the Black Sea
coast, the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry said on its website.
Netanyahu said in a statement broadcast from his office that
 Israel  will pursue and punish those who harm its citizens.  “You are seeing geopolitical premium with Netanyahu
basically blaming  Iran  for the bombing,” said Tariq Zahir, a
New York-based commodity fund manager at Tyche Capital Advisors.
“Fear about supply disruption is the main driver out there
today.”  The incident comes amid heightened tension over the Islamic
Republic’s nuclear program, which Israel says is intended to
produce weapons for use against the Jewish state. Iran has
threatened to close the  Strait of Hormuz , a transit point for
about 20 percent of the world’s traded crude, as the European
Union imposed sanctions on Iranian oil on July 1.  Iran Output  Iran’s crude output will fall by 1 million barrels a day by
the end of 2012 because of the EU sanctions, the U.S. Energy
Department estimated in its July 10 Short-Term Energy Outlook.
The country’s production fell to a 20-year low of 3.16 million
barrels a day in June, according to  Bloomberg estimates .  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will cut
shipments this month as the sanctions on Iran take effect,
tanker-tracker Oil Movements said in an e-mailed report.  “The  Middle East  is getting pretty ugly so you don’t
really want to be bearish on oil,” said Bill O’Grady, chief
market strategist at Confluence Investment Management in  St.
Louis , which oversees $1.4 billion. “Syria is starting to look
like it may just fall apart, and if Syria goes, potential for a
regional war goes up quite a bit.”  At least 77 people were killed today as forces loyal to
President Bashar al-Assad pounded rebel hideouts, the Local
Coordination Committees in Syria said in an e-mail. Among the
leaders killed yesterday were Assad’s brother-in-law, Assef Shawkat, and Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah.  The Middle East produced 27.7 million barrels a day of oil
in 2011, according to  BP Statistical Review of World Energy .  Stimulus Speculation  Oil also gained as U.S. stocks rose amid better-than-
estimated earnings and increased speculation that the U.S. and
 China  would move to support economic growth. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index advanced as much as 0.6 percent.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on July 17
policy makers are studying options for further easing that could
be deployed in case economic growth remains too feeble to
produce a lasting decline in unemployment.  China can allow the fiscal deficit to widen if necessary to
a size similar to 2009’s gap, Zhang Peng, a Beijing-based
researcher with the Fiscal Research Institute at the Ministry of
Finance, said in a telephone interview.  “People continue to speculate about stimulus,” said Phil Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures.
“You’ve got geopolitical events going on everywhere. You almost
have a small perfect storm going on for oil.”  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 602,757
contracts as of 3:15 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 550,320
contracts yesterday, 1.2 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.4 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  