-- Fans Will Follow London Olympics With Multiple Devices
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-19T21:16:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/olympics-fans-will-follow-games-with-multiple-devices-poll-says.html
Olympics fans keen to watch athletes
getting draped in medals will be fidgeting with hardware of
their own as the games get under way in  London .  Almost half, or 44 percent, of U.S. adults aged 18 to 44
plan to use two or more devices -- such as smartphones or
tablets -- to follow the 2012 Olympics, according to a  Harris
Interactive Inc. (HPOL)  survey. More men than women will use multiple
gadgets, according to the poll.  Audiences are taking advantage of the proliferation of
tablet computers and handsets that surf the Web to complement
their experience of televised sports and other programming. That
is influencing how companies tailor the marketing messages as
more consumers use social-media tools such as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
Twitter Inc. to interact while they watch.  “For brands that want to reach Olympic viewers, this is an
important finding as it highlights the ability to look beyond TV
and focus on secondary devices such as smartphones and
tablets,” Krishna Subramanian, chief marketing officer at  Velti
Plc (VELT) , the mobile-marketing technology provider that sponsored the
survey, said in a statement.  As many as 4 billion people worldwide could watch the 2012
London Olympics and Paralympic Games on television, according to
a guide produced by the organizers.  The survey also showed that about one-third of adults ages
55 and older will follow the Olympics on two or more devices.
Among respondents, 14 percent will juggle three or more devices.  “This survey reveals that a significant number of
Americans are choosing to get their Olympic updates on the go,
and while doing so, they’re overwhelmingly turning to mobile
browsers,” Subramanian said.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  NBC Universal  is providing live online
coverage of every Olympics event for the first time this year.
NBC is offering an initial four hours of access for anyone
seeking content -- with a temporary login -- per device. After
that, only pay-TV subscribers will be able to watch with their
tablets, PCs or mobile phones.  The poll was conducted during June and July, according to
Velti. The Olympics  opening ceremony  is scheduled for July 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  New York  at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  