-- On Its First Birthday, Consumer Bureau Flexes Its Muscle
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-07-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/on-its-first-birthday-consumer-bureau-flexes-its-muscle.html
One year after the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau began operating as an independent
agency, Director Richard Cordray says it has achieved one of its
chief goals: getting  Wall Street  to pay attention.  “I do think we’re keeping the industry on their toes,”
Cordray said in an interview before the agency brought its first
enforcement case yesterday -- a $210 million settlement with
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  for deceptive marketing.  The consumer bureau may be the most visible creation of the
Dodd-Frank Act, the overhaul of financial regulation that
President  Barack Obama  signed into law two years ago. Much of
the work mandated by the law remains incomplete, including
regulations with wide impact on the banking industry such as the
so-called Volcker rule banning proprietary trading.  During the past year the consumer agency went to work
laying the groundwork for oversight of banking products and
services. Beside its newly deployed enforcement powers, the
bureau is poised to set rules for areas including mortgage
servicing, mandatory arbitration and the billions of dollars in
fees customers pay each year for overdrawing checking accounts.  “I expect to see a lot more decisions and impacts on the
market in the coming year, and those will create some real
battles with the industry,” said Reid Cramer, who studies
banking services for low-income people at the Washington-based
 New America Foundation .  Obama has touted Dodd-Frank and the creation of the
consumer bureau as one of his administration’s key legislative
accomplishments.  Mitt Romney , the presumptive Republican
presidential nominee, has pledged to repeal the law if elected.  Republican Opposition  Banking lobbyists and Republican lawmakers opposed the idea
of the consumer agency when it emerged, arguing it would limit
choice in financial products and curtail credit. If Republicans
win control of the White House and Congress in the November
elections, they would be able to pass legislation they’ve
proposed to replace the director with a five-member commission
and restrict the agency’s funding.  The Republican-controlled House has also passed bills that
would delay, roll back or modify other parts of Dodd-Frank,
including rules governing swaps and insolvent banks. Opponents
of the regulatory law say it is too complicated, puts a costly
burden on banking workers and doesn’t reduce risk in the
financial system.  “Discussions about the economic burden of the Dodd-Frank
Act must continue,” Steve Bartlett, president of the Financial
Services Roundtable, said in a statement. “As we continue to
work our way out of the economic decline, surely there is more
useful work for these employees.”  Payday Lenders  The debate in Congress hasn’t yet changed the bureau’s
course. Last July it began supervision of banks with over $10
billion in assets for compliance with federal consumer-
protection laws. On Jan. 5, after Obama installed Cordray as the
bureau’s director, it began examining payday lenders, mortgage
originators and servicers, as well as private student lenders.  “We have access to their records,” Cordray said. “We see
what they are doing.”  Yesterday’s settlement gave a first look at the agency’s
enforcement agenda. Capital One agreed to pay $210 million to
settle claims from the bureau and the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency that the firm deceived consumers in marketing
credit card “add-on” products such as debt cancellation and
credit monitoring. The McLean, Virginia-based firm didn't admit 
or deny wrongdoing.  “We are putting companies on notice that these deceptive
practices are against the law and will not be tolerated,”
Cordray said during a conference call with reporters yesterday.  Warren Statement  Noting that other companies market similar products with
similar tactics, he promised in the interview that enforcement
actions would now come “at a fairly steady clip.”  The action was praised by  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard
professor whom Obama tapped to set up the agency before it
officially started work. “The new consumer agency is only one
year old, but it is fearless,” Warren, now running for the  U.S.
Senate  from  Massachusetts , said in a statement.  The bureau’s activities may already be changing some bank
practices. In July 2011 the agency started up a system for
collecting consumer finance complaints. Over the objections of
banking groups, Cordray in June announced that the complaints
would be open to public review. While the individual details are
blocked out, anyone can now see whether consumers have
criticized  Bank of America Corp.  or  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  over
issues with credit cards, mortgages or checking accounts.  An informal survey of banks published this month by the  law
firm  Mayer Brown found that 28 percent have altered their
complaint-resolution systems in response to the system. Also, 22
percent said they created new procedures for evaluating possible
consumer harm from their services.  ‘Most Accessible’  Before he decided to make the database public, Cordray,
along with other senior officials and the bureau’s staff,
attended industry conventions, met with bankers visiting
 Washington  and huddled with executives in  New York .  “To date this agency has been the most accessible of any
I’ve ever dealt with in this town,”  Richard Hunt , head of the
Consumer Bankers Association, said in an interview. “It’s not
even close.”  Hunt, a veteran congressional staffer and lobbyist, said
his group has been impressed with the information its members
have received. Bureau staffers have spent time outside their
formal meetings with members -- which include  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  -- explaining how they will
examine banks and enforce major laws, he said.  Travis Plunkett , the director of legislative affairs for
the  Consumer Federation of America , said before the bureau began
its work that it had a year to “make a difference” to ordinary
Americans.  Consumer Culture  “Maybe I was guilty of some hyperbole,” Plunkett said in
an interview, “but they are demonstrating very concretely that
they will improve the lives of consumers in financial services
in any number of ways.”  Plunkett said that a central accomplishment of the bureau
has been to anchor a regulatory culture focused on protecting
consumers, not banks.  For example, Cordray imported a practice that Raj Date, his
deputy, learned while an executive at Capital One Financial
Corp. Senior agency officials are now required each week to read
5 to 10 of the detailed complaints that consumers send to the
bureau about their experiences in the financial services market.  In months to come, few issues loom larger than the agency’s
probe of checking account overdraft practices, the source of
$31.6 billion in bank revenue, according to Moebs Services, a
Lake Bluff, Illinois-based research firm.  ‘We’re Listening’  The announcement early this year that the agency is mulling
new types of disclosures for checking accounts led some banks to
pause efforts to revamp their own paperwork.  “I think  Richard Cordray  is learning that when he talks,
we are listening,” Hunt said.  The bureau is examining whether banks are changing the
order in which transactions are completed to maximize the number
of overdraft fees. Deutsche Bank AG, in a July 6 study,
estimated that a regulatory crackdown could cost  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  $480 million per year, and JPMorgan $288 million.  So far, the agency has emphasized the need for better
disclosures to consumers. Consumer groups want the agency to go
further by limiting the fees for each overdraft -- which can
reach $35 per transaction.  “Telling somebody you’re going to rob them before you rob
them is not okay,” Plunkett said.  Cordray hasn’t provided details about the bureau’s plans He
said his staff will carefully study the data and will consult
with the banks as it evaluates what to do next.  “We will be working to do the right thing and we will make
people angry and happy on both sides,” Cordray said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Carter Dougherty in
Washington at   cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds43@bloomberg.net . 