-- Hong Kong Jobless Rate May Rise on Europe Crisis, Graduates
-- B y   C r y s t a l   C h u i
-- 2012-07-19T08:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/hong-kong-jobless-rate-may-climb-on-european-crisis-graduates.html
Hong Kong ’s  jobless rate  may rise on
weakness in the global economy and more graduates and school
leavers seeking work, the government said, even as the latest
data showed resilience in the labor market.  “The Hong Kong economy can hardly stay unscathed,” the
Financial Secretary’s Office said in an e-mailed response to
questions from Bloomberg News, citing  Europe ’s debt crisis and
the fragility of major advanced economies.  The jobless rate for the three months through June was
unchanged at a seasonally adjusted 3.2 percent, the government
said on its website today. That was less than the 3.3 percent
 median forecast  of six economists in a Bloomberg News survey and
compares with a rate of as much as 5.5 percent during the global
financial crisis.  “As the economy is slowing this year, it is likely that
the job market will follow suit,” said Joanne Yim, an economist
at  Hang Seng Bank Ltd. (11)  in Hong Kong, forecasting an increase to
a 4 percent jobless rate by year-end.  Hong Kong stocks rose on speculation  China  will take more
action to boost growth and after U.S. housing starts jumped to
the highest since 2008. The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced 1.7
percent.  The Financial Secretary’s Office cited a looming influx of
graduates and school leavers as also causing “upside risks”
for the  unemployment rate .  Tourists, Infrastructure  An increased jobless rate would add to pressure on Chief
Executive Leung Chun-ying, who took office July 1 and faces
public concern over housing costs, the gap between rich and
poor, and the conduct of public officials.  His development secretary resigned after the  Apple Daily 
reported he had misused government housing allowances.
Democratic Party lawmaker Albert Ho has asked a court to rule
that Leung’s election was invalid, saying that he misled the
public about illegal structures built at his home.  Tourist spending, domestic demand and infrastructure
projects have helped the city to maintain almost full
employment, the Financial Secretary’s Office said.  For now, job seekers are optimistic.  “I’m not too worried about not being able to find a job,”
said Sally Chu, 40, who was at a government job center in
Wanchai this week, looking for work as a domestic helper. “I
have a couple of offers already but I’m waiting for an offer
with better pay and working conditions.”  Echoing that view was Samuel Fung, 32, who wants a job as
an accounting clerk that pays more than HK$13,000 ($1,676) a
month. “There are a lot of job vacancies and it is not hard to
get an offer,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crystal Chui in Hong Kong at 
 tchui4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  