-- More Shareholders Are Just Saying No on Executive Pay
-- B y   N e l l   M i n o w
-- 2012-07-19T22:30:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/more-shareholders-are-just-saying-no-on-executive-pay.html
It is often said that social change
can’t occur until what was seen as misfortune is seen as
injustice. There is a corollary in the financial world. It says
change can’t occur until what was seen as immaterial is seen as
risky. That’s happening with executive compensation.  Investors are recognizing that excessive pay for chief
executive officers does more than shave a few cents off
earnings; it also provides important clues about the alignment
of executives’ and shareholders’ interests. Misalignment can be
very expensive.  More important, compensation provides crucial information
about the effectiveness of a board’s independent oversight. If
directors can’t say no to the CEO on pay, they probably can’t
say no to poorly designed strategy or head off operational
fiascos.  One important reason investors are looking at pay more
closely is that the question is being presented to them more
directly. For the second year, shareholders in 2012 had a “say
on pay,” a nonbinding vote on executive compensation, as
required by the Dodd-Frank financial-reform law. The key word
here is nonbinding. Even a 100 percent vote against a pay plan
imposes no obligation on the company’s board of directors to
make changes. Four companies whose shareholders rejected a pay
plan in 2011 got a second no vote this year.  Saying No  Shareholders said no to pay packages at about 50 of the
more than 3,000 companies that held votes this year. (The tally
excludes smaller companies and those on a two- or three-year
voting cycle.)  This year’s no votes included some big corporate names,
including  Citigroup Inc.  (The compensation committee members
were Alain Belda, former Alcoa Inc. chairman who is no longer on
the board; Michael E. O’Neill, the incoming Citigroup chairman
who has held senior positions at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Bank of
America Corp.; Richard D. Parsons, the outgoing Citigroup
chairman; Diana L. Taylor, managing director at Wolfensohn Fund
Management LP and the companion of  New York  Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , the founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP; and William S. Thompson Jr., the former CEO
of Pacific Investment Management Co.)  One of the most important lessons from this year’s proxy
season is that, even at companies where a pay plan wins majority
support, shareholder-approval votes are shrinking. Law firm
 Davis Polk   reported  that, as of mid-May, only 454 companies that
held say-on-pay votes got more than 90 percent in favor, down
from 540 companies last year. An additional 85 companies
received votes in the 80 percent to 89 percent range, down from
126 in 2011.  It is also clear that  proxy advisory firms  are increasingly
influential. Institutional Shareholder Services and Glass, Lewis
& Co. are the most prominent of the firms that make
recommendations to large investors after analyzing executive-
compensation plans and other matters on which shareholders can
vote.  When the proxy advisory firms recommend a no on pay, their
clients usually follow suit. The Davis Polk report found that 14
of the 15 no votes on pay also had recommendations to vote no
from Institutional Shareholder Services. When it recommended a
yes vote, shareholders agreed 92 percent of the time.  Improved Plan  Significantly, some companies are revising their pay
packages and disclosures to avoid a no recommendation. For
example,  Motorola Solutions Inc. , which had failed a say-on-pay
vote, won shareholder approval this year for an improved pay
plan. (The compensation committee members are William J. Bratton, the chairman of Kroll Inc.; Kenneth C. Dahlberg, the
retired chairman and CEO of Science Applications International
Corp.; David W. Dorman, the chairman of  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) ; and
Samuel C. Scott III, the retired chairman and CEO of Corn
Products International Inc.)  Other companies are heading off no votes by consulting
directly with investors to respond to International Shareholder
Services and to better explain compensation plans.  It is also apparent from this proxy season that
compensation committees can run, but they can’t hide. Dodd-Frank
gives companies the right to ask shareholders to allow votes on
pay every two or three years, rather than annually. Most
shareholders, especially in larger companies, prefer annual
reviews, but some companies have succeeded in getting approval
for votes every three years.  Cablevision Systems Corp. , for
example, didn’t hold a vote on pay this year because the company
is on a three-year cycle. But shareholders found a way to show
their concerns: A majority withheld support for members of the
board compensation committee. Like the pay vote, this no vote on
directors is advisory, yet it shows that shareholders with
concerns about pay will find a way to deliver that message.  Key predictors of a no vote are emerging. Shareholders are
more likely to vote against pay plans when shareholder returns
are below those of the market or a peer group, or when a company
has shareholder-unfriendly provisions, such as paying part of an
executive’s taxes. Other indicators include anti-takeover
clauses and high rates of dilution from the issuance of  stock
options .  Compensation-committee members with longer-than-average
tenure are associated with no votes, according to research from
Stephen M. Davis, a senior fellow at  Harvard Law School ’s
 Program on Corporate Governance , and Jon Lukomnik, executive
director of the Investor Responsibility Research Center
Institute.  The season’s most overlooked indicator isn’t the level of
pay or the board’s makeup but the percentage of stock held by
institutional shareholders. Broc Romanek, the editor of
TheCorporateCounsel.net, told me that shareholder composition is
more significant than the specifics of a compensation package.
Professional investors are more likely to vote against excessive
pay.  The U.K., which was ahead of the U.S. with legislation
requiring advisory votes in 2003, is now  moving to give
shareholders  the right to forbid excessive compensation. A
nonbinding no vote on pay at British insurer Aviva Plc was
considered such a powerful message of no confidence that it led
to the CEO’s departure in May.  In the U.S., if no votes against pay plans and compensation
committees continue to have no effect,  investors may seek  the
same right. Corporations could find that, finally, no means no.  (Nell Minow, the co-founder and director of GMI Ratings,
which evaluates governance risk at public companies, is co-
author of the textbook, “ Corporate Governance ,” now in its fifth
edition. This is the last in a three-part series on corporate-
governance issues. Read  Part 1  and  Part 2 . The opinions
expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  California ’s model  maternity-
leave program  and on  remodeling austerity  in the U.K.; Stephen
L. Carter on  lying politicians ; William Pesek on the  loss of
faith  in bankers;  Virginia Postrel  on  economic segregation ;
 Amity Shlaes  on how states can  remake the tax system ;  Jonathan
Weil  on the Barclays  Libor-rigging settlement ; Robert Boxwell on
one banker’s  exemplary testimony  to the U.K. Parliament.  To contact the writer of this article:
Nell Minow at  nminow@gmiratings.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net  