-- Morgan Stanley Shares Decline After Earnings Tumble 50%
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-07-19T20:16:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/morgan-stanley-shares-decline-after-earnings-tumble-50-.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  fell in New York
trading after reporting a 50 percent drop in earnings on the
biggest decline in trading revenue among Wall Street firms. The
company said it will cut headcount by 4,000 this year.  Morgan Stanley slid 5.3 percent to $13.25, the biggest
decline since March 6, after second-quarter net income decreased
to $591 million from $1.19 billion a year earlier. The stock’s
12 percent fall this year is the  largest  among the 10 biggest
U.S. banks.  The 48 percent drop in trading revenue, which plunged to
the lowest level since Chief Executive Officer  James Gorman , 54,
took over in January 2010, compares with an increase of more
than 11 percent at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. Clients shied away
from doing business with the firm while Moody’s Investors
Service weighed a credit-rating downgrade, Morgan Stanley said.  The fixed-income results were “very weak,” said Charles Peabody, an analyst at Portales Partners LLC in New York who
rates the stock sector perform. “Strength tends to beget
strength and weakness weakness, so I think on the fixed-income
side they’re going to end up being a loser.”  Excluding accounting adjustments, profit was 16 cents a
share, below the 29-cent average  estimate  of 20 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. On that basis, the firm’s return on
equity was about 2 percent, below Gorman’s goal of 15 percent.  Mayo’s Upgrade  Morgan Stanley shares pared their decline after Mike Mayo,
an analyst at Credit Agricole Securities (USA), raised his
rating to outperform from underperform. Mayo’s price target is
$16. The stock is 55 percent below where it traded when Gorman
took over, and is trading at about half the firm’s liquidation
value.  Morgan Stanley has already cut 3,272 jobs since the start
of 2012 and expects that number to climb to 4,000 by year’s end,
Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat said in an interview.
Reductions will be gradual and some may come from attrition, she
said. About 350 jobs were eliminated with the sale of U.K.
wealth manager Quilter Holdings Ltd. in April.  Revenue dropped to $6.95 billion from $9.21 billion a year
earlier. Book value per share rose to $31.02 from $30.74 at the
end of March.  Second-quarter revenue from fixed-income sales and trading,
which is run by Ken deRegt, along with commodity trading co-
heads Colin Bryce, and  Simon Greenshields , all 56 years old, was
$770 million, excluding the accounting gain. That missed
estimates of $1.1 billion from Citigroup Inc.’s  Keith Horowitz ,
and $1.39 billion from Barclays Plc’s  Roger Freeman .  Shrinking Unit  Gorman vowed to shrink the fixed-income division in order
to free up capital and improve returns. Risk-weighted assets in
the unit have already been cut 15 percent in the past nine
months, he said. The reduction will reach 25 percent by the end
of 2013, Gorman said on a conference call with analysts,
declining to provide the firm’s total risk-weighted assets,
known as RWAs.  The accounting gain is known as a debt-valuation
adjustment, or DVA. It stems from a decline in the price of the
company’s bonds, under the theory it would be cheaper to buy
back the debt. Morgan Stanley booked $2 billion of losses in the
first quarter as cost of repurchasing the debt rose.  Fixed-income  revenue  was down 70 percent from $2.59 billion
in the first quarter and 60 percent from $1.9 billion in the
second quarter of 2011.  Goldman Sachs (GS) ’s fixed-income revenue,
excluding DVA, climbed more than 40 percent from a year earlier
to $2.19 billion. Citigroup’s fell 4 percent to $2.82 billion,
while JPMorgan Chase & Co. posted a 17 percent decline to $3.49
billion.  Rating Cut  Porat said the results included a $225 million charge
related to $2.9 billion of collateral it had to post after
Moody’s cut the firm’s credit rating by two levels last month.
The ratings review also hurt client activity with the firm,
Porat said.  “As the speculation on the ratings outcome lingered,
clients did seem to take a wait-and-see approach,” she said.
“Having that ratings action addressed, now having clarity on it
and having that uncertainty gone, we’re seeing real relief among
clients. Clients have re-engaged, and it’s good to have it
behind us.”  In equities trading, headed by Ted Pick, 43, Morgan
Stanley’s revenue fell 36 percent from the year-earlier period
to $1.14 billion, excluding DVA. That was a 38 percent decline
from the first quarter’s $1.83 billion, and compared with $1.7
billion at Goldman Sachs, $1.04 billion at JPMorgan and $550
million at Citigroup. Brad Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein, had estimated revenue of $1.45 billion, while
Barclays’s Freeman estimated $1.38 billion.  Goldman Sachs  Citigroup on July 16 beat analysts’ estimates on revenue
from advising on mergers, corporate lending and underwriting
stocks and bonds. Goldman Sachs said the next day it plans to
cut $500 million in expenses after reporting the lowest first-
half revenue and earnings in seven years. Both companies are
based in  New York .  The two companies cited a decline in trading and merger
volume amid concern that  Greece  would leave the euro and the
region’s debt crisis would spread to nations including Spain and
 Italy .  Morgan Stanley’s credit-default swaps have fallen since
June 21, when Moody’s cut the firm’s credit rating two grades
instead of the threatened three levels. Morgan Stanley avoided
the biggest potential downgrade among U.S. firms because of
support from Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., its largest
shareholder, Moody’s said.  Collateral Call  The firm had to post collateral of $2.9 billion as a result
of the downgrade, the company said today. Counterparties have
called another $800 million so far in July, and the pace of
demands has been “measured,” Porat said.  Morgan Stanley generated $884 million in second-quarter
revenue from  investment banking , which is overseen by Paul J. Taubman, 51. That figure, down 40 percent from a year earlier,
included $263 million from financial advisory, $283 million from
equity underwriting and $338 million from debt underwriting.  Morgan Stanley was the second-ranked equity underwriter in
the quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It was the
lead underwriter on Facebook Inc.’s initial public offering,
which set a record for technology companies by raising more than
$16 billion. The stock has dropped 23 percent since the IPO,
leading to shareholder lawsuits claiming the company and its
underwriters overpriced Facebook at $38 a share.  Same Process  Morgan Stanley said it adhered to the same procedures it
follows for all IPOs and complied with all applicable
regulations.  Global  wealth management , overseen by  Greg Fleming , 49,
posted pretax income of $393 million, up from $317 million a
year earlier, as revenue fell 4 percent to $3.31 billion. The
division’s pretax profit margin rose to 12 percent from 9
percent in the second quarter of 2011.  Gorman said the bank finished the technology integration of
the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney brokerage this month. He has
previously said his target is a 20 percent pretax margin. The
figure was 11 percent in the first quarter, and Fleming has
vowed to raise the margin to “mid-teens” by the middle of next
year.  Morgan Stanley said in May it would exercise the option to
buy a 14 percent stake in the venture from Citigroup, increasing
its ownership to 65 percent. The two companies’ valuations of
the unit’s value were more than 10 percent apart, requiring a
third-party appraiser to complete the deal, Porat said in the
interview.  Asset management reported a pretax gain of $43 million,
down from $168 million in the previous year’s period.  Compensation and benefits decreased 21 percent from the
year-earlier quarter to $3.63 billion, or 52 percent of the
firm’s overall revenue. The ratio was higher than in the second
quarter of 2011, when the bank set aside 50 percent of revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  