-- Morgan Stanley Joins Citigroup in Job-Cut Push Amid Slump
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-07-19T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/morgan-stanley-joins-citigroup-in-job-cut-push-amid-slump.html
Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
are among Wall Street firms preparing to eliminate jobs as
first-half revenue dropped for a third straight year.  Headcount at Morgan Stanley will decline by about 700 in
the second half, bringing total 2012 staff reductions to 4,000,
Chief Financial Officer Ruth Porat, 54, said yesterday in an
interview.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Europe’s biggest lender by assets, 
is considering about 1,000 job cuts at its investment bank, 
while Citigroup plans to chop about 350, people with knowledge 
of the decisions said this week.  Trading and investment-banking revenue at the five largest
Wall Street firms fell 18 percent in the second quarter as deal
and trading volume dropped amid concern that  Greece  would leave
the euro and the region’s sovereign-debt crisis would spread to
other nations including Spain. The decline led to questions
about whether banks could cut costs to improve returns.  “All of these earnings that came out, none of them changed
the fundamental problem, which is Europe is in disarray and
nobody is taking risk,” Brad Hintz, a Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. analyst, said on Bloomberg Television. “You have an
environment where the Street can only tighten its belt.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the second-biggest  U.S. bank  by
assets, plans to trim $3 billion in annual expenses from its
investment-banking, trading and wealth-management units. The
Charlotte, North Carolina-based lender didn’t say how many jobs
it would be eliminating.  Junior Employees  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  plans to cut $500 million of
expenses this year, mostly from compensation, after reporting
the lowest first-half revenue and earnings in seven years. Chief
Financial Officer David A. Viniar said the firm’s headcount
would feature a greater proportion of junior employees by the
end of the year.  “We’re controlling the levers that we can, which are
expenses and capital,” Viniar, 57, said this week on a
conference call with analysts.  The cuts announced over the past week may be a precursor to
more staff reductions by banks, said analysts including Charles Peabody of Portales Partners LLC in  New York .  “It’s tough to make money in this environment, and so I
think there’s going to be a further round” of cuts, Peabody
said in a phone interview.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, is planning the
cuts in its securities division, which includes investment
banking and trading, according to a person with knowledge of the
matter. The firm previously disclosed plans to eliminate 1,200
jobs from the unit.  “We are not oblivious to the fact that our cost structure
cannot be justified by our current revenue,” Chief Financial
Officer  John Gerspach  said in January. “While much of the
current difficulty reflects market conditions, we equally have
some management and execution challenges.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  