-- Mortgage Rates Fall to Record Lows With 30-Year at 3.53%
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-07-19T14:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/mortgage-rates-fall-to-record-lows-with-30-year-at-3-53-.html
U.S. mortgage rates fell, with 30-
year loans reaching a record low for a fifth straight week, amid
an uneven recovery in the housing market.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage dropped to
3.53 percent in the week ended today, the lowest in Freddie Mac
records dating to 1971, from 3.56 percent. The average 15-year
rate declined to 2.83 percent, also a new low, from 2.86
percent, the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-finance company
said today in a statement.  An  unemployment  rate stuck above 8 percent and stricter
lending standards are limiting a rebound in property purchases,
even with borrowing costs at record lows. Sales of previously
owned homes declined 5.4 percent in June to an eight-month low,
data from the National Association of Realtors showed today.  “There is underlying improvement under way in housing
demand in the U.S.,”  Paul Diggle , property economist for
Capital Economics Ltd., said today in a telephone interview from
 London . “We always knew it would proceed with fits and starts,
and the report today is consistent with that.”  New U.S. home  construction  rose 6.9 percent in June to the
highest level in almost four years, the Commerce Department
reported yesterday. An index of builder  confidence  from the
 National Association of Home Builders /Wells Fargo climbed in
July by the most since September 2002.  Low borrowing costs are pushing homeowners to reduce their
monthly payments. An index of applications for  refinancing 
surged 21.6 percent in the week ended July 13, the most since
January, the Washington-based  Mortgage Bankers Association  said
yesterday. The group’s  purchase  gauge was little changed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in  New York  at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  