-- Los Angeles Fuel Rises on Tesoro Refinery Work
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-07-19T23:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/los-angeles-fuel-rises-on-tesoro-refinery-work.html
Spot gasoline in  Los Angeles 
advanced for the first time in three days after  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Carson
refinery was said to be performing work on benzene-stripping
equipment in the crude unit and  Phillips 66 (PSX) ’s Rodeo plant
reported a pump fire.  The 266,000-barrel-a-day Carson refinery in  Southern
California  shut equipment that strips residual benzene from the
crude unit for about three weeks of maintenance, a person
familiar with operations at the plant said. Phillips 66
extinguished a fire on a pump at the 76,000-barrel-a-day Rodeo
plant,  Rich Johnson , a company spokesman in Houston, said.  California-blend, or Carbob,  gasoline  in Los Angeles
advanced 3 cents to a discount of 4 cents a gallon against
gasoline futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The same fuel in San Francisco
also added 3 cents to 9 cents below gasoline futures.  “There were no injuries, no impact to the surrounding
community and no impact to operations associated with the
fire,” Johnson said in an e-mailed statement regarding the fire
at Rodeo.  California-blend diesel, or CARB diesel, in Los Angeles
strengthened 0.25 cent to a premium of 4.25 cents a gallon
versus heating oil futures traded on the Nymex.  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  plans to shut a catalytic cracker at the
279,000-barrel-a-day El Segundo refinery near Los Angeles for a
maintenance turnaround in the first quarter of next year, two
people with knowledge of the schedule said. The work is
scheduled to begin Jan. 13 and last as many as 43 days, one of
the people said.  Chevron Maintenance  An alkylation unit will also be shut as part of the
turnaround, one person said.  San Francisco CARB diesel dropped 1.25 cents to 1.5 cents a
gallon above futures.  CARB diesel inventories increased 465,000 barrels, or 22
percent, last week to 2.54 million barrels, the state Energy
Commission said in an e-mailed report yesterday.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland ,  Oregon , was
unchanged at a premium of 1 cent a gallon versus Nymex gasoline
futures. Low-sulfur diesel  there  gained 1 cent to 23 cents above
heating oil futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  