-- Wiggins Lets Himself Think of Tour Win After Last Mountain Stage
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-19T22:17:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/tour-de-france-leader-wiggins-says-win-in-sight-as-nibali-fails.html
Tour de  France  leader Bradley Wiggins said he almost cried as he allowed himself for the first
time to contemplate victory when his closest rival, Vincenzo
Nibali, faltered on the last mountain stage.  Spain ’s Alejandro Valverde won yesterday’s 143.5-kilometer
(89-mile) stage in the Pyrenees to the Peyragudes ski resort.
Wiggins was third, just behind Team Sky teammate Chris Froome.
Together, they surged up the last climb and out of reach of
Nibali, who finished 18 seconds back.  Wiggins, who beat Nibali by more than two minutes to win an
earlier time trial, would become the first British winner of the
race that started in 1903.  “It was the first time in the whole of the race that I
thought I’d won the Tour,” Wiggins told reporters. “There were
almost tears in my eyes.”  Wiggins has a  2-minute, 5-second  lead over Froome in the
overall classification. Froome hasn’t challenged the advantage
of his fellow Briton during the race and twice slowed down for
Wiggins to catch up yesterday.  Nibali, an Italian with the Liquigas team, is 2:41 behind
Wiggins in third. There is a 138-mile flat stage today between
Blagnac and Brive-La-Gaillarde, and a time trial tomorrow before
the final ceremonial ride to Paris on July 22.  “Wiggins was very strong,” Nibali said as he rested his
arms on his bike’s handlebars after crossing the finishing line
yesterday. “He will be a deserved winner.”  Final Climb  After a rolling first half of the ride, cyclists climbed
the Port de Bales, a mountain that has an average 7.7 degree
gradient, and then scaled the Col de Peyresourde and the final
uphill climb to Peyragudes.  Europcar’s  Thomas Voeckler  was part of an early breakaway
as he sought to defend his polka-dot jersey as top climber
against closest rival Fredrik Kessiakoff of Astana. Voeckler
crossed the first mountain pass, Col de Menthe, first and then
the smaller Col des Ares.  Valverde and Movistar teammate Rui Costa led the field over
the Port de Bales. Costa misjudged a turn on the descent and
went into a run-off zone, leaving Valverde alone.  The Spaniard held off Froome and Wiggins to win the stage
by 19 seconds.  With two miles left, Wiggins accelerated away from Nibali
and fourth-place Jurgen van den Broeck of  Belgium . The Briton
clenched his teeth as he rode up the final incline that was
shrouded in mist and crowded with thousands of fans, some of
them waving British flags.  Froome followed Wiggins and then set the pace himself to
gain more time on Nibali.  “We said ‘he’s nailed, he’s finished,”’ Wiggins said.
“That was an incredible feeling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff at Peyragudes, France at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 