-- House Passes Defense Measure With Weapons Obama Hasn’t Sought
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m   a n d   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/house-passes-defense-bill-supporting-weapons-not-sought-by-obama.html
The U.S. House set the stage for a
partisan fight over defense spending, passing legislation to
give the Pentagon $607.1 billion in fiscal 2013 for weapons
purchases, personnel and war operations in  Afghanistan .  The 326-90 vote yesterday in the Republican-run chamber
sets up a fight with the White House and the Democratic-
controlled Senate, both of which want less defense spending.  The House defense appropriations bill would provide $24.5
billion less than current expenditures, reflecting the military
drawdown in  Iraq , and $2 billion more than President  Barack Obama  requested. Still, the House passed, 247-167, a bipartisan
amendment trimming $1.1 billion from the version of the measure
sent to the floor by the Republican-led House Appropriations
Committee.  The sponsors of the amendment, Representative Mick Mulvaney, a South Carolina Republican, and  Barney Frank , a
 Massachusetts  Democrat, said they wanted to freeze Pentagon
spending at the current year’s level.  “When we are discussing cutting even the most basic social
safety net programs, we think increasing the defense base budget
makes all our exhortations about the deficit ring hollow,”
Mulvaney and Frank said in a letter to colleagues before the
vote. “You may want to keep this letter. The chances of
receiving one from a more unlikely pair of your colleagues in
your time in Congress are probably pretty low.”  Their amendment won support from 158 Democrats and 89
Republicans.  Destroyer, Drones  The legislation rejects Obama administration proposals to
delay or terminate several military programs, while providing
funding for weapons the Defense Department has said it doesn’t
want and didn’t request, including $1 billion for the Navy to
build a third DDG-51 Aegis-class destroyer and $182 million for
the  Air Force  to buy 21 RQ-4 Global Hawk Block 30 drones.  “As we continue to face threats to our safety and way of
life, we must deal with the costs of war, keep our military at
the ready and stay constantly vigilant,”  Appropriations
Committee  Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky Republican, said on
the House floor.  White House officials have  threatened  a veto, saying in a
June 28 statement of administration policy that  House
Republicans  aren’t abiding by a deal on spending caps reached
last year as part of a deal boosting the  U.S. debt ceiling .  Higher spending than Obama sought will force cuts to
domestic programs to stay within the limits, the administration
said.  ‘Unrequested Funding’  “By adding unrequested funding for defense, the  House of
Representatives  departs from the bipartisan understanding
reached a year ago,” the administration said, citing “negative
consequences that will, for example, cost jobs and hurt average
Americans, especially seniors, veterans and children -- as well
as degrade many of the basic government services on which the
American people rely, such as air traffic control and  law
enforcement .”  Some Democrats have criticized the idea of spending more on
defense because the government faces budget deficits and because
military spending is scheduled for an automatic cut of $55
billion on Jan. 2 unless Obama and Congress reach agreement to
avert it.  The budget cut, known as sequestration, is set to occur
because talks failed last year on a bipartisan plan to curb the
nation’s  debt .  ‘Canyons of Cash’  “Despite sequestration, despite budget pressures, despite
the fragility of the economy, the Republicans still want to
increase defense spending,” Democratic Representative Ed Markey
of Massachusetts said on the House floor. Republicans are
determined to lavish “canyons of cash” on outdated weapons
systems that reflect the needs of the Cold War era, he said.  Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said any fiscal 2013 funds
put under contract, or obligated, by Jan. 2 wouldn’t be subject
to sequestration.  Among amendments adopted on the House floor was one from
Texas Republican Ted Poe that would reduce military aid to
 Pakistan  by $650 million, half the amount in the bill for the
South Asian country.  Poe said the Pakistani government hasn’t been aggressive
enough in fighting terrorists. “By continuing to provide aid to
Pakistan, we are funding the enemy, endangering Americans and
undermining our efforts in the region,” he said in a statement.  Certification Needed  The bill’s remaining funding for Pakistan would be withheld
until the secretaries of defense and state certified that the
Pakistani government is cooperating with the U.S. in
counterterrorism efforts, including against the Haqqani Network.  Other adopted amendments would:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  