-- How the Elites Built America’s Economic Wall
-- B y   V i r g i n i a   P o s t r e l
-- 2012-07-19T22:36:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/how-the-elites-built-america-s-economic-wall.html
For a century, incomes became
increasingly equal across the U.S., as poor states such as
 Alabama  caught up to rich places like California.  Economists have long taught this history to their
undergraduates as an illustration of the growth theory for which
 Robert Solow  won his  Nobel Prize  in economics: Poor places are
short on the capital that would make local labor more
productive. Investors move capital to those poor places, hoping
to capture some of the increased productivity as higher returns.
Productivity gradually equalizes across the country, and wages
follow. When capital can move freely, the poorer a place is to
start with, the faster it grows.  “That’s one of the central relationships in
macroeconomics,” says  Daniel Shoag , an economist at Harvard
University’s  Kennedy School of Government . “It’s an extremely
strong one, and we teach it in introductory macro because it’s
one of the few macro facts that are predicted by a model that
isn’t a tautology and that holds extremely well.”  Or at least it used to. Over the past 30 years, the
convergence has largely stopped. Incomes in the poorer states
are no longer catching up to incomes in rich states.  Mobile Labor  In a new  working paper , Shoag and  Peter Ganong , a doctoral
student in economics at Harvard, offer an explanation: The key
to convergence was never just mobile capital. It was also mobile
labor. But the promise of a better life that once drew people of
all backgrounds to rich places such as  New York  and  California 
now applies only to an educated elite -- because rich places
have made housing prohibitively expensive. (Shoag and Ganong
visualized these changes in a  series of excellent animated
graphics .)  The states with the highest incomes also used to have the
fastest-growing populations, as Americans moved to the places
where they could earn the most money. Over time, that movement
narrowed geographic income differences. In 1940, per-capita
income in  Connecticut  was more than four times that in
 Mississippi . By 1980, Connecticut was still much richer, but the
difference was only 76 percent. In the two decades after World
War II, Shoag and Ganong find, migration explains about a third
of the convergence of average incomes across states.  But migration patterns changed after 1980. “Instead of
moving to rich places, like  San Francisco  or New York or Boston,
the  population growth  is happening in mid-range places like
Phoenix or  Florida ,” Shoag says. Lower-skilled people, defined
as those with less than 16 years of education, are actually
moving away from high-income states.  The problem isn’t that they can’t find “good-paying” jobs.
Even people without college degrees still make more in high-
income states. But that money buys less than it would elsewhere.
The high cost of  housing  more than eats up the extra earnings a
mechanic, medical-billing clerk or hairdresser can make in a
place such as New York or Los Angeles. More-educated people also
pay more to live in such cities, but their higher salaries mean
that housing costs consume a smaller percentage of their income.
They still come out ahead.  “My brother-in-law is a waiter,” Shoag says, “and he could
earn a lot more money being a waiter in Boston than he could in
Ohio. But it’s so expensive here that it doesn’t make sense to
move to Boston if you’re going to do a job that doesn’t require
a degree.”  Land Use  Housing prices have always been steeper in high-income
places, but the difference is much greater than it used to be.
In their paper, the economists set out to measure the cause of
the change. They create an index of regulation based on how
often the phrase “land use” occurs in state appellate court
cases over time. This proxy turns out to predict housing prices
well. It also closely matches results from surveys of regulation
from 1975 and 2005, suggesting that it’s picking up real changes
in the legal environment, not merely word choice.  The news isn’t all bad. Less-educated workers may not have
the opportunities they once had in places such as California and
New York, but they can still raise their real incomes, factoring
in housing costs, by migrating to states like Nevada, Florida
and  Texas . “Places that didn’t have this increase in regulation
still have the old process that worked,” Shoag says, “where
people move to the richer areas, human capital levels converge,
incomes converge -- the whole chain that used to exist for the
whole country is still true if you focus just on the areas that
haven’t had as large an increase in regulation.”  As I have  argued elsewhere , there are two competing models
of successful American cities. One encourages a growing
population, fosters a middle-class, family-centered lifestyle,
and liberally permits new housing. It used to be the norm
nationally, and it still predominates in the South and
Southwest. The other favors long-term residents, attracts highly
productive, work-driven people, focuses on aesthetic amenities,
and makes it difficult to build. It prevails on the West Coast,
in the Northeast and in picturesque cities such as Boulder,
 Colorado  and Santa Fe,  New Mexico . The first model spurs income
convergence, the second spurs economic segregation. Both create
cities that people find desirable to live in, but they attract
different sorts of residents.  This segregation has social and political consequences, as
it shapes perceptions -- and misperceptions -- of one’s fellow
citizens and “normal” American life. It also has direct and
indirect economic effects. “It’s a definite productivity loss,”
Shoag says. “If there weren’t restrictions and you could build
everywhere, it would be productive for people to move. You do
make more as a waiter in LA than you do in Ohio. Preventing
people from having that opportunity to move to these high-income
places, making it so expensive to live there, is a loss.” That’s
true not only for less-educated workers but for lower earners of
all sorts, including the artists and writers who traditionally
made places like New York,  Los Angeles  and Santa Fe cultural
centers.  Lost Landscape  In their paper, Shoag and Ganong don’t look at why high-
income states tightened their regulations, thereby increasing
segregation by education level. One possible explanation is that
as people get richer and cities get more crowded, the tradeoffs
between cheaper housing for newcomers and a pleasant (or at
least stable) environment for current residents look different.
When postwar developers were turning California orange orchards
into suburbs, residents focused on the new houses rather than
the lost landscape. Now opposition to new construction is not
only common but institutionalized. Well-organized residents fear
losing the amenities that attracted them in the first place.  Another consideration is the difference between housing as
consumption -- a nice place to live -- and housing as an
investment, promising high returns over time. Making it hard to
build new housing in a place people want to live drives up the
price of the existing housing stock. Old-timers reap  capital
gains . Regulation, Shoag notes, “takes what should be the gain
for the worker who wants to move in and turns it into the gain
for the owner of the house.”  Finally, there’s the never-mentioned possibility: that the
best-educated, most-affluent, most politically influential
Americans like this result. They may wring their hands over
inequality, but in everyday life they see segregation as a
feature, not a bug. It keeps out fat people with bad taste.  Paul Krugman  may  wax nostalgic  about a childhood spent in the suburbs
where plumbers and middle managers lived side by side. But I
doubt that many of his fervent fans would really want to live
there. If so, they might try Texas.  ( Virginia Postrel  is a Bloomberg View columnist. She is the
author of “The Future and Its Enemies” and “The Substance of
Style,” and is writing a book on glamour. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on California’s model  maternity-
leave program  and on  remodeling austerity  in the U.K.; Stephen
L. Carter on  lying politicians ; William Pesek on the  loss of
faith  in bankers;  Amity Shlaes  on how states can  remake the tax
system ;  Jonathan Weil  on the Barclays  Libor-rigging settlement ;
Robert Boxwell on one banker’s  exemplary testimony  to the U.K.
Parliament;  Nell Minow  on the U.S.’s budding shareholder revolt
over  excessive corporate pay .  To contact the writer of this article:
Virginia Postrel at  vp@dynamist.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net  