-- Lloyds May Book Loss of $1.8 Billion on Branch Sale to Co-Op
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-07-19T10:12:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/lloyds-agrees-to-sell-632-bank-branches-to-co-operative-group.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s
biggest mortgage lender, may post a loss of as much as 1.15
billion pounds ($1.8 billion) on the sale of 632 branches to Co-
Operative Bank Plc almost three years after the European Union
ordered it to find a buyer.  Lloyds agreed to sell the branches for an initial 350
million pounds to comply with its government bailout. Co-Op will
pay a further 400 million pounds based on the performance of the
unit, London-based Lloyds said in a statement today. Lloyds may
provide 1.5 billion pounds of equity capital to complete the
sale by November 2013.  Lloyds was forced to sell the branches to comply with EU
state-aid rules after receiving a 20.3 billion-pound rescue
following the 2008 credit crisis. The bank selected Co-Op, a
customer-owned lender, as preferred bidder in December over  NBNK
Investments Plc (NBNK) , which offered about 1.5 billion pounds for the
branches.  The sale “has been an albatross around the necks of
Lloyds’s management ever since the EC state-aid sanctions were
first announced,” said  Ian Gordon , an analyst at Investec
Securities in  London  in a note to investors. The loss “reflects
Lloyds’s uncomfortable status as a forced seller and may
underwhelm,” he said.  Lloyds is selling about 24 billion pounds of assets, down
from 68 billion pounds originally planned, which will reduce the
potential loss of earnings following the sale, Credit Suisse
Group AG analyst Carla Antunes-Silva said today.  The shares gained 0.4 percent to 29.9 pence at 10:32 a.m.
in London trading, valuing the bank at 21 billion pounds.  Market Share  Co-Op will acquire 4.8 million customers with 3.1 million
checking accounts, providing the combined company with 7 percent
of the consumer account market, Lloyds said. Upon completion,
Co-Op will have almost 1,000 branches. The division will be led
by Paul Pester, who currently oversees the unit being sold by
Lloyds, Co-Op said in a separate statement.  Co-Op has been working with the Financial Services
Authority to reassure the regulator it is a “good home for the
business,” Co-Op Chief Executive Officer  Peter Marks  told
Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move” with  Francine Lacqua .
“We still have work to do with the FSA, but have a high level
of confidence that they will be satisfied,” said Marks.  The sale plan was welcomed by Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne  as “another step towards creating a new banking
system for Britain,” in a statement today. The sale creates a
“new challenger bank,” he said. U.K. taxpayers still own about
40 percent of Lloyds.  The government-sponsored Independent Commission on Banking
in September said the consumer banking market would “be much
improved by the creation of a strong and effective new
challenger by way of the Lloyds divestiture.”  “Today’s agreement is an important step in meeting our
obligations under the mandate sale of branches,” Lloyds CEO
Antonio Horta-Osorio said in the statement. “In agreeing to
move ahead with the Co-Op we provide a greater certainty for our
customers and our shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in 東京 at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  