-- Palo Alto Raises $260.4 Million, Pricing IPO Above Range
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n   a n d   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-07-20T00:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/palo-alto-raises-260-4-million-pricing-ipo-above-range.html
Palo Alto  Networks Inc. and  Kayak
Software Corp. (KYAK)  raised a combined $351.4 million, pricing their
initial public offerings above the proposed ranges  and  tapping
renewed investor demand for technology shares.  Palo Alto, a maker of Internet firewalls, raised $260.4
million selling 6.2 million shares at $42 apiece, it said in a
statement today,  after  offering the shares for $38 to $40.
Kayak, an online travel company, raised $91 million selling 3.5
million shares at $26 apiece, a dollar more than the top end of
the marketed range, according to a company statement.  Palo Alto and Kayak join  Five Below Inc. (FIVE)  and Durata
Therapeutics Inc. in raising more than $600 million combined
this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The IPOs
followed a monthlong drought in the wake of  Facebook (FB)  Inc.’s
disappointing May debut and may indicate renewed investor demand
for companies that promise growth, according to Jayson Noland,
an analyst with Robert W. Baird & Co.  “There’s an appetite for innovation and growth out there
and there’s going to be a premium placed on growth, whether it’s
tech or anywhere else,” said Noland by telephone. “We’ve seen
a pretty steep discount on companies that are facing a secular
decline.”  Palo Alto initially said it would offer the shares for $34
to $37 and raised the range this week. The stock will start
trading tomorrow, listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange under
the symbol PANW.  Trading Tomorrow  Kayak, which will list under the symbol KYAK on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, had planned to sell the shares at $22 to $25
apiece. The offering values Kayak at about $1 billion, based on
its 38.6 million shares outstanding.  Palo Alto’s IPO price values it at about $2.8 billion, or
almost 13 times sales of $220 million in the 12 months through
April 30, Bloomberg data show. That’s double the average
multiple of 6.4 for similar-sized peers such as  Juniper Networks
Inc. (JNPR)  and  Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. (CHKP)  Larger
competitor  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  trades at a multiple of 2, and
Intel Corp. trades at 2.4 times.  Palo Alto’s offering follows the successful debut by
 ServiceNow Inc. (NOW)  last month, which opened the gates for other
IPOs after the flop of Facebook’s $16 billion initial share sale
froze the U.S. market for more than a month.  Emerging Force  While shares of Internet companies such as Facebook,
 Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  and  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)  have declined since their IPOs in
the past year, some technology firms that sell services and
products to companies have fared better. In addition to
ServiceNow, which sells technology-management software,  Splunk
Inc. (SPLK) , a data-analytics company, has risen 72 percent since its
IPO on April 18.  Palo Alto is an emerging force in the market for corporate
anti-hacking technology. Revenue at the company, led by Chief
Executive Officer Mark McLaughlin, has surged at least 57-fold
since 2008 as more businesses invest to shield their networks
from outside threats.  The company, founded in 2005, offered 4.69 million shares,
while existing holders offered 1.5 million, according to the
statement. Venture firms Greylock Partners and Sequoia Capital
didn’t plan to sell shares and will own more than 41 percent of
the company after the IPO, according to regulatory filings.  Over-Allotments  Palo Alto also said it has granted the underwriters a 30-
day option to purchase up to an additional 930,000 shares of
common stock to cover any over-allotments.  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  led Palo Alto’s
share offering.  The company’s sales in the three months ended April 30 were
$65.7 million, more than double the $31.2 million a year
earlier, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. Net income in
the nine months ended April 30 was $5.34 million, compared with
a loss a year earlier, with sales for that period approaching
$180 million, the company said in a  filing .  The global market for enterprise network security may rise
to $12.5 billion by 2015 from $10 billion this year, Palo Alto
said in its filing, citing IDC.  Kayak, which first filed to go public in November 2010, is
the first U.S. consumer Internet company to go public since
Facebook’s IPO in May. Norwalk, Connecticut-based Kayak delayed
its roadshow after Facebook shares tumbled.  Revenue at Kayak jumped 39 percent in the first quarter to
$73.3 million, from $52.7 million a year earlier. The company
reported net income in the period of $4.1 million, following a
$6.9 million loss in the year-earlier quarter because of a
writedown related to its SideStep brand.  Five Below, the teen and pre-teen retailer that sells
merchandise for less than $5, raised $163.5 million pricing its
IPO at the top end of the marketed range. Including an
overallotment option for underwriters to buy additional shares,
the company raised $188 million. Durata Therapeutics raised
$67.5 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  