-- Paper Mills Join JPMorgan as U.S. Probes Power-Market Games
-- B y   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-07-19T21:14:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/paper-plants-join-jpmorgan-as-u-s-probes-power-market-gamblers.html
The U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission proposed penalties of $29.8 million for alleged
manipulation of New England’s power market in the agency’s
expanding investigations that also ensnared  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Rumford Paper Co. and Lincoln Paper and issue LLC, two
paper mills, along with consultant Competitive Energy Services
LLC and an employee were ordered to pay fines and give up
financial gains made by claiming “phantom” cuts in electricity
use in 2007-2008, according to documents released July 17.  Since January 2011, the agency announced 11 investigations
of alleged manipulation in electricity and natural-gas markets
and reached a record $245 million settlement with Constellation
Energy Group Inc. this year. The agency on July 2 sued New York-
based JPMorgan to release e-mails in a probe of possible gaming
of power markets in  California  and the Midwest. The company
denies the FERC allegations.  “It does show their vigilance and their focus on
identifying market manipulation,” said Patrick M. Gerity, a
Hartford, Connecticut-based senior counsel at law firm Day
Pitney LLP, said of the FERC action, noting he isn’t familiar
with the JPMorgan case. “Market manipulation can occur.”  Rumford, part of NewPage Corp., and Lincoln own and run
paper mills in  Maine . The companies curtailed generating their
own electricity and bought more power from the grid to inflate
their usage while the operator was measuring average customer
demand. After the review period, Rumford resumed onsite
generation, cut demand from the grid and was rewarded under a
program aimed at reducing use, the FERC documents showed.  ‘Strongly Disagree’  The alleged violations occurred from July 2007 to February
2008. Competitive Energy Services and employee Richard Silkman
aided Rumford, according to FERC documents. The companies have
30 days to response to the agency’s action.  “We strongly disagree with FERC’s allegations,” Keith Van Scotter, chief executive officer at the Lincoln plant, said in
an interview. “We’re just a small manufacturer. How can we
manipulate power markets?”  “Competitive Energy Services and Dr. Silkman deny that
they did anything improper or unreasonable,” Peter Brann, a
spokesman for the Portland, Maine-based company, said by phone
today. “They did not involve in any market manipulation.”  NewPage spokeswoman  Shawn Hall  declined to comment on the
agency’s action.  J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp. allegedly made bids that
resulted in at least $73 million in improper payments to
generators, according to the FERC. The investigation came to
light when the FERC went to court seeking internal e-mails from
JPMorgan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kasia Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  