-- Pelata Says Leaving Renault After ‘No Job in Sight’ at Carmaker
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-07-19T13:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/pelata-says-leaving-renault-after-no-job-in-sight-at-carmaker.html
Patrick Pelata , who stepped down
from his post as  Renault SA (RNO) ’s chief operating officer in 2011
following a botched espionage investigation, said he’s leaving
the carmaker because he wasn’t given enough responsibilities.  “I’m leaving because, after one year, there’s no job for
me in sight,” Pelata said in an e-mail to Bloomberg today.
“I’ve done strategic studies over the last 12 months but can’t
participate in their operational implementation. I therefore
concluded that I had to go on elsewhere.”  Pelata plans to join a technology company in  California ,
according to a person familiar with the matter, who declined to
be identified because the new position hasn’t been announced.  The auto executive, whose last day is Aug. 16, is currently
working at the carmaker’s alliance with Nissan Motor Co. Pelata
was appointed as Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn ’s second-
in-command in October 2008 and resigned in April 2011 after
Renault mishandled a spy investigation that led to the wrongful
dismissal of three senior managers and sparked a national outcry
in France.  Pelata has been a close associate of Ghosn, who also heads
Nissan, for more than a decade. The 56-year-old executive, who
ran day-to-day affairs at France’s second-largest carmaker,
graduated from the country’s elite Ecole Polytechnique in 1974
in the same class as Ghosn. He joined Renault as head of
bodywork assembly at the carmaker’s plant in Flins, west of
Paris.  In 1999, when Ghosn was sent by then CEO  Louis Schweitzer 
to rescue Nissan from near-bankruptcy, he took Pelata with him
and the two have worked closely together since then.  The shares  rose  as much 1.32 euros, or 3.9 percent, to
34.82 euros and were up 3.5 percent as of 3:36 p.m. in Paris
trading. The stock of the Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based
company has jumped 29 percent this year, valuing Renault at 10.2
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  