-- Penn State Evaluating School’s Culture After Child-Sex Coverup
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-19T17:51:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/penn-state-evaluating-school-s-culture-after-child-sex-cover-up.html
Pennsylvania  State University Board
Chairwoman Karen Peetz said a special  task force  is “evaluating
the fundamental culture” of the school after an investigation
found university officials covered up a child sex-abuse scandal
involving a former assistant football coach.  “As we move forward, we will work to rebuild a culture
that will be shaped by the highest commitment to academics and
athletics --- but ultimately, a culture of transparency and
accountability,” Peetz, vice chairwoman of  Bank of New York
Mellon Corp. (BK) , said in a e-mailed letter to alumni.  A report released last week by former  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation Director  Louis Freeh  said the school’s top
executives, including former university President  Graham Spanier 
and football coach  Joe Paterno , concealed sexual abuse of
children by ex-assistant coach Jerry Sandusky to protect the
school from “bad publicity.”  The National Collegiate Athletic Association -- college
sports’ governing body -- is awaiting a response from Penn State
officials before determining on penalties for the athletic
program. NCAA President  Mark Emmert  has said no sanctions are
off the table, including a shutdown of football or the athletic
department. Penn State President Rodney Erickson said two days
ago that the university would officially respond to the NCAA’s
request for information within days.  “Penn State needs to figure out how they’re going to right
this ship, and if it is shutting down football for a year or two
to figure it out for themselves, then they need to do it,” said
Jason Lanter, a professor of psychology at Pennsylvania’s
Kutztown University and former president of the Drake Group, a
professors’ alliance to defend academic integrity from the
sports industry.  ‘Death Penalty’  Erickson has said he doesn’t want to “jump to any
conclusions” about whether possible NCAA sanctions might
include the so-called death penalty, which could shut down  Penn
State ’s athletic program for ethics violations.  Lanter said university officials need to take bigger steps
than putting aside money for child abuse and renovating the
showers in the athletic complex, where incidents of abuse by
Sandusky were alleged to have taken place.  “I’d like to see Penn State put the hammer down and say,
‘We understand it’s going to do damage to the NCAA, to the Big
Ten, to Penn State, but we need to throw football on the back
burner for a year or two to figure stuff out,’” Lanter said in
a telephone interview. “Anything Penn State does helps them in
the NCAA’s eyes, but it needs to be strong and swift.”  The 68-year-old Sandusky, who spent 31 seasons as a
defensive assistant under Paterno, was convicted last month on
45 criminal counts tied to the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year
period and is awaiting sentencing.  Football Record  Paterno, who was fired in November after charges were filed
against Sandusky, won a Division I record 409 games over 46
years as the Nittany Lions’ coach. He died of  lung cancer  in
January at the age of 85.  Freeh, in a July 12 news conference in Philadelphia, said
the most saddening finding in his investigation was the “total
disregard for the safety and welfare of Sandusky’s child victims
by the most senior leaders at Penn State.”  Emmert, in a July 16 interview with the Public Broadcasting
Service, didn’t say whether NCAA penalties would be targeted at
the football program or the entire athletic department, since
then-athletic director Tim Curley was allegedly involved in the
cover-up.  Financial Hit  If Penn State’s football program were shut down, the
financial losses would probably be debilitating, leaving non-
revenue teams without funding and saddling the program with debt
for years. In the fiscal year ending in 2010, the football
program generated $63.3 million of the department’s $106.6
million operating revenue and turned an operating profit of
$49.2 million, according to the school’s revenue and expenses
report for that year.  Peetz, in her letter to alumni, said the release of the
Freeh Report marked one of the most sorrowful days in what has
been the most difficult chapter in the university’s history.  The Board of Trustees accepts full responsibility for the
failures cited in the Freeh Report, Peetz said, and with the
cooperation of the administration, will “take every action to
ensure that an event like this never happens again in our
University community.”  Peetz, a Penn State graduate, and Erickson appointed a task
force composed of board members and senior university
administrators to ensure the recommendations in the Freeh Report
are enacted. The report was commissioned by the trustees.  “At the same time, progress will be about much more than
responding to recommendations, but about evaluating the
fundamental culture that is Penn State,” Peetz wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  