-- Peregrine, Madoff, Comerica, Doral Financial: Compliance
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-07-19T12:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/peregrine-libor-madoff-comerica-doral-financial-compliance.html
The trustee liquidating Peregrine
Financial Group Inc., who is seeking to return “specifically
identifiable property” to customers, said only about 11 of
24,000 futures clients have such property eligible to be
returned, according to a filing in bankruptcy court.  Peregrine’s founder, Russell R. Wasendorf Sr., 64, admitted
stealing at least $100 million from the Cedar Falls, Iowa-based
firm, according to an FBI affidavit accompanying a criminal
complaint unsealed upon his July 13 arrest. The National Futures
Association reported July 9 that Peregrine appeared to be
missing at least $200 million in client funds. Wasendorf
attempted suicide outside the firm’s headquarters that day.  Wasendorf established the firm as Wasendorf & Son Inc. in
1980, renamed it Peregrine 10 years later and opened a Chicago
office, according to its website. It filed for Chapter 7
bankruptcy protection in that city on July 10.  The trustee, Ira Bodenstein, said the assets he is seeking
to return are defined as securities, warehouse receipts, cash
and other assets that are registered in the name of that
customer and are not transferable.  The 11 eligible customers are mostly holding warehouse
receipts for precious metals, he said.  Customers of the futures brokerage who have a right to
return of property won’t necessarily get 100 percent of their
assets, as bankruptcy rules for liquidating the brokerage
require him to distribute property pro rata to each class of
customer accounts, Bodenstein said.  Customers with returnable metals warehouse receipts may
have to post a deposit in order to receive the receipts, he
said. Notice requirements letting eligible customers know they
must request return of property will be sent in writing to those
customers, he said.  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  Compliance Action  Ex-JPMorgan Banker Wright Pleads Guilty in Muni Bond Probe  Former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  banker Alexander Wright pleaded
guilty to conspiring with a former UBS AG broker in 2002 to rig
bids on a bond deal involving a New Jersey hospital.  Wright, 45, pleaded guilty to a single count of conspiring
to commit wire fraud in a hearing before U.S. Magistrate Judge
Frank Maas in federal court in Manhattan yesterday. Rebecca
Meiklejohn, a lawyer with the Justice Department’s Antitrust
Division, told Maas that Wright will testify in the criminal
trial of three former UBS bankers, including Gary Heinz, whom
Wright identified as his partner in the conspiracy.  Wright told Maas that in June 2002 he and Heinz agreed to
fix the bidding for a transaction involving a New Jersey
hospital, which he didn’t name. Wright submitted a low bid, then
raised the bid to a price suggested by Heinz, so he would win on
behalf of JPMorgan.  “I knew at the time that my actions were wrong and against
the law,” Wright told Maas.  Wright will pay $29,600 in victim restitution under the
terms of his plea agreement with prosecutors. He faces as long
as five years in prison when he’s sentenced.  Peter Ghavami, former co-head of UBS’s municipal
derivatives group, Heinz and Michael Welty are scheduled to be
tried July 30 on bid-rigging charges.  Wright was released on $100,000 bond.  Sinaloa Gold Must Pay Over 1 Million Pounds to U.K. Regulator  Sinaloa Gold Plc was ordered to pay more than 1 million
pounds ($1.56 million) to the U.K. financial regulator after a
London judge said it sold millions of worthless shares through a
so-called boiler room.  Sinaloa Gold, a Utah-based miner, sold 1 penny shares to
investors at prices between 70 and 85 pence. More than 1 million
pounds was invested in the company by U.K. businesses, the
Financial Services Authority said in court documents.  “Sinaloa was a sham operation that was being operated in
breach of a number of regulations,” Judge John Jarvis said in
court yesterday.  Boiler rooms are operations without regulatory approval
that promote and sell stock through cold calls, mail and the
Internet. The shares that are sold aren’t necessarily listed on
a recognized stock exchange, so investors have difficulty
selling the shares.  A phone number for Sinaloa Gold in London was disconnected
and the company’s website was no longer in operation. The FSA
said it will distribute any money recovered to investors.  The company, which searched for gold in Mexico, was founded
in Layton, Utah, incorporated in London in May 2010 and later
listed in Frankfurt, according to its website in January 2011.  Sinaloa’s assets were frozen in 2011 by a U.K. judge.  What investors bought “was just paper,” James Purchas, a
lawyer for the FSA, said at a hearing yesterday. “The entire
scheme is fraudulent, and it has been designed in order to
persuade individuals to pay far more for the Sinaloa shares than
what those shares are in fact worth.”  Sinaloa wasn’t represented in court following a December
hearing when it was banned from defending itself when it failed
to comply with a court order.  Glenn Hoover, a director of Sinaloa, earned 188,486 pounds
from selling the shares, the FSA said in court documents. Jarvis
ordered Sinaloa and Hoover to repay the full amount lost by
investors to the FSA.  The case is The Financial Services Authority v. Sinaloa
Gold Plc and Glen Lawrence Hoover, High Court of Justice,
 Chancery Division , HC10C04532.  SEC Says Mizuho Securities to Pay $127.5 Million in Settlement  The Securities and Exchange Commission said the U.S.
investment banking subsidiary of Japan-based Mizuho Financial
Group agreed to pay $127.5 million to settle claims that it
misled investors by obtaining false crediting ratings for
collateralized debt obligation.  The SEC claims that Mizuho Securities USA Inc. and three
former employees misled investors in a collateralized debt
obligation by using “dummy assets” to inflate the deal’s
credit ratings. The three ex-workers also agreed to settle the
SEC’s actions against them, the agency said.  Deutsche Bank and HSBC Traders Probed for Rate Collusion  Traders at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are under investigation for
interest-rate manipulation in a global probe that led to a
record fine for  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month, a person with knowledge
of the matter said.  Investigators are focusing on their links to Philippe
Moryoussef, an ex-trader at Barclays, which was fined $451
million for rigging the euro and London interbank offered rates,
the person said.  Barclays employees tried to manipulate Euribor and Libor
for profit, while managers instructed rate-setters to make
artificially low submissions to avoid the perception the lender
was under stress amid turmoil in credit markets in 2007 and
2008. At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide for rigging the rate, and regulators from Stockholm to
Seoul are re-examining how benchmark rates are set amid concern
they are just as vulnerable to manipulation as Libor.  At least 34 traders have been caught up in the scandal,
either being fired or suspended by their employers or put under
investigation by U.K. or U.S. authorities. That includes
employees from  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc.,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , UBS AG,
Citigroup Inc., Barclays and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Libor scandal has also ensnared officials from the Bank
of England, who have been accused of encouraging banks to
communicate about their rates. Three top Barclays executives --
Chairman Marcus Agius, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond 
and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier -- have resigned
following pressure from regulators and Parliament.  Stibor, Sweden’s main interbank rate, and Tibor in Japan
are among rates facing renewed scrutiny because, like Libor,
they are based on banks’ estimated borrowing costs rather than
real trades. The Japanese Bankers Association yesterday asked
the 16 banks that contribute to the rate answer questions on how
they make their submissions.  Compliance Policy  EU Lawmakers Target Libor Fixing With Market-Abuse Amendments  Manipulating interbank lending rates like Libor may be made
a criminal offense across the European Union under draft
proposals published by EU lawmakers.  The European Parliament proposed that anyone who gave
“false or misleading information on the value of interest
rates, currencies or indexes” would be punished for market
manipulation, according  to a document  published on its website.  Members of the parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee intend to add the measure to a draft law against
market abuse published last year by European Union Financial
Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier . The move would ensure
regulators can seek jail sentences and other criminal sanctions
for people found guilty of rigging interbank lending rates.  Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by assets, was
fined 290 million pounds ($452 million) on June 27 for rigging
the London interbank offered rate, a global benchmark, for
profit. Chairman Marcus Agius, Chief Executive Officer Robert
Diamond and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier
subsequently resigned.  The record fine provoked renewed calls for tougher
oversight of the financial system and pushed regulatory probes
into interbank lending rates to the top of the political agenda.  Barnier backs the plans to amend his proposals in light of
the scandal, he said July 8. Draft laws proposed by the
commission must be approved by the parliament and by national
governments before they can take effect.  In the Courts  Madoff Trustee, California’s Harris to Hold Talks on Suit  California Attorney General  Kamala Harris  and the
liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s defunct firm will hold talks
seeking to end a deadlock over Harris’s $270 million lawsuit
against an alleged beneficiary of the Ponzi scheme.  The two sides will use mediation to pursue a settlement,
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  said yesterday at a hearing
in Manhattan. Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  had asked Lifland to
stop Harris’s suit against  Stanley Chais ’s estate, saying only
the trustee can collect money for Madoff’s Ponzi victims. Harris
contends her suit can proceed because she’s using her state
policing power to protect consumers from fraud.  The combatants portray their fight in court filings as a
clash between federal bankruptcy law, which describes a
trustee’s powers in fraud cases, and state law, governing a
state’s top law enforcer. Picard didn’t publicly protest in June
when, in New York, Attorney General Eric Schneiderman struck a
$410 million settlement with Madoff feeder fund operator  Ezra
Merkin .  Picard declined to explain why he sued Harris and not
Schneiderman. “We don’t talk publicly about our strategy,” he
said in an interview.  Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, said he couldn’t
immediately comment.  The Harris case is Picard v. Hall, 12-01001, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
brokerage liquidation case is Securities Investor Protection
Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-
ap-1789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Comerica Customers May Sue Bank as Class for Overdraft Fees  Comerica Inc. (CMA)  customers may sue the bank as a class over
claims that banks wrongly charged overdraft fees, a federal
judge ruled.  More than 30 banks have been sued by customers claiming the
banks reordered their overdrafts to maximize the fees they paid.
Comerica is the seventh bank to lose a bid to force the
customers to pursue their claims individually.  “Surely you’re not saying the bank would welcome 50,000
cases in small claims court,” U.S. District Judge James
Lawrence King told the attorney for Dallas-based Comerica
yesterday in Miami federal court. “This is a question of
whether there’s a suit or none at all.”  The judge added that “there wouldn’t be lawyers to take
the cases and it would just go away.”  Several banks have already agreed to settle the claims,
with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  agreeing to pay $410 million, the
highest settlement. The cases have been consolidated in Miami
for pretrial proceedings.  Comerica spokesman Wayne J. Mielke said the bank
anticipated the ruling and will continue fighting the lawsuit.  The case is In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-md-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Florida
(Miami).  Doral Financial’s Levis Wins Reversal of One Criminal Count  Mario “Sammy” Levis, a member of the family that founded
Puerto Rican bank-holding company  Doral Financial Corp. (DRL) , won
reversal of one of three criminal convictions.  Levis, formerly Doral’s treasurer, was convicted in 2010 of
two counts of wire fraud and one count of securities fraud for
lying to investors about the value of mortgage-related
securities held by the company. He was sentenced to five years
in prison.  A federal appeals court in New York yesterday threw out one
of the wire fraud charges, ruling that the trial judge should
have let Levis argue that Doral used a hedging strategy that he
reasonably believed limited Doral’s financial risks.  Prosecutors claimed Levis manipulated the value of
mortgage-related assets to inflate the price of  Doral stock . In
March 2005, the Levis family owned 8.2 percent of the company’s
shares, prosecutors said.  Doral, based in San Juan, Puerto Rico, said in September
2005 that it would restate its finances to the end of 2004 and
cut shareholder equity by $720 million because of overvalued
assets. The company eventually paid $129 million to settle an
investor  lawsuit  and a $25 million fine to the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission.  The case is U.S. v. Levis, 10-CR-4819, Second U.S. Circuit
Court of Appeals (Manhattan).  Interviews and Speeches  FDIC’s Norton Says U.S. Regulators Miscalibrated Rules for Banks  Jeremiah O. Norton, a U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.
director, said the government may have saddled the financial
industry with overly burdensome regulations that don’t work well
with each other.  “I’m not sure that we calibrated that right as a
government,” Norton said in remarks at his first public event
since starting the job in April. “It worries me that we’re not
seeing the whole picture as a government.”  Banks are experiencing a “profitability challenge,”
squeezed by “regulatory headwinds” from the 2010 Dodd-Frank
Act and Federal Reserve indications that interest rates will
stay low, Norton said yesterday at a meeting of the Exchequer
Club in Washington.  Norton is a former JPMorgan Chase & Co. banker and deputy
assistant Treasury secretary who was sworn in as one of two
Republicans on the five-member FDIC. The other Republican is
 Thomas Hoenig , who is awaiting confirmation as the board’s vice
chairman and has drawn attention for pushing a return to Glass-
Steagall Act separations of banking functions. Norton declined
to comment on Hoenig’s proposals.  The bank regulator said that working out the international
cooperation for his agency’s Dodd-Frank authority to dismantle
systemically significant firms is a “vital, critical element.”
He also said that so-called living wills required from the big
banks “could become a very expensive exercise” if they don’t
prove useful in helping regulators dismantle large banks in case
of bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 