-- Peregrine Trustee to Have Payout Estimate in 14 Days
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-19T20:38:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/peregrine-trustee-to-have-payout-estimate-in-14-days.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.’s
bankruptcy trustee will tell some former clients within 14 days
about how much they have to put on deposit so they can redeem
specific property claims against the defunct futures brokerage.  Robert Fishman, a lawyer for the trustee, today told U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Carol Doyle in Chicago that the preliminary
estimate -- a percentage of the properties’ value -- was needed
as a guide for processing 11 potential claims, primarily from
owners of warehouse receipts for precious metals held by the
collapsed  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based firm.  “We’ll be pretty conservative,” Fishman told reporters
after the hearing, in which Doyle gave the trustee permission to
notify the clients about their property. The notices will be
sent today by overnight mail, Fishman said in an interview.  Clients will have 14 days from when they are notified to
say whether they want to reclaim that property, mostly warehouse
receipts for precious metals. Because claimants in the same
class must be treated equally, each one seeking the return of
property must deposit a percentage of its cash value, to be held
for ultimate pro rata distribution to claims class members.  The percentage estimate will apply for now only to members
of this group, Fishman said.  Missing Millions  Peregrine filed for liquidation under Chapter 7 of the U.S.
 Bankruptcy Code  on July 10, one day after the  National Futures
Association , an industry self-regulator, said the firm’s bank
accounts were short more than $200 million.  Russell Wasendorf Sr., Peregrine’s founder and chief
executive officer, has been charged with making false statements
to the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission. He’s in
federal custody pending a bail hearing set for July 27 in  Cedar
Rapids ,  Iowa .  The trustee, Ira Bodenstein, notified the court July 17 of
11 of about 24,000 futures customers with specifically
identifiable property eligible to be returned to them.
Bodenstein was chosen by the U.S. Trustee’s Office, the Justice
Department arm that oversees bankruptcy cases.  “This is just the first bucket we’re dealing with,”
Fishman told the judge today. “There’s lots more buckets to
come.”  Customer Lawsuits  The trustee’s office is establishing a website, Bodenstein
said outside the court, at  www.pfgchapter7.com , as well as a
toll-free phone line for making inquiries at 877-465-1849.  Two Peregrine clients separately have sued Wasendorf and
other company executives in federal court in  Chicago , accusing
the firm of breaching provisions of the federal Commodity
Exchange Act.  One of those customers, Michael LaSalvia of Naperville,
Illinois, today asked U.S. District Judge Sharon Johnson Coleman
to consider granting group status to all current and former firm
clients whose deposited money was commingled with firm funds.  Johnson is scheduled to hear arguments on the request on
July 31.  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-00131, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  