-- Pfizer Wins Patent Ruling, Exclusive Sales for Lyrica
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-07-20T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/pfizer-wins-patent-ruling-exclusive-sales-for-lyrica-drug-1-.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, convinced a U.S. judge that its patents for the pain-
drug Lyrica are valid and infringed, giving it exclusive sales
rights until 2018.  Pfizer, based in  New York , sued competitors including Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA in federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware , in
April 2009, contending their sales of generic Lyrica would
infringe the patents and cause irreparable harm.  “The defendants are enjoined, based on this infringement,
from commercially manufacturing, using, offering for sale, or
selling” their product, and the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  is prohibited from approving the generic drug
applications until the patents expire, U.S. District Judge
Gregory M. Sleet wrote in a 133-page opinion released yesterday.  “The court’s decision recognizes the infringement and
validity of our Lyrica patents and affirms the value of Lyrica
as a distinct and important innovation for patients,” Amy Schulman, Pfizer’s general counsel, said in a statement.
“Protecting our intellectual property is vital to our ability
to develop new medicines that save and enhance patients’
lives.”  FDA Approval  Lyrica, approved by the FDA in 2004 to treat pain, also has
been used by doctors to treat anxiety, epilepsy and restless-leg
syndrome. Pfizer logged $3.7 billion in Lyrica sales last year.  Denise Bradley, a spokeswoman for defendant  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s biggest generic
drugmaker, said in an e-mailed statement that the Israeli
company had no comment on the ruling.  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI) , the parent company of  Bonita
Springs , Florida-based defendant Cobalt Laboratories, hasn’t
decided whether it will appeal, Charlie Mayr, a spokesman for
Watson, said in an interview.  Uday Baldota, a spokesman for Mumbai-based defendant Sun
Pharma Industries Ltd., wasn’t immediately available to respond
to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Wockhardt USA  Andrew Watson , a spokesman for Parsippany, New Jersey-based
defendant Wockhardt USA LLC, wasn’t immediately available to
comment on yesterday’s decision.  A phone call to Morristown, New Jersey-based Actavis Inc.’s
media relations office seeking comment on the decision wasn’t
immediately returned.  Nina Devlin, a spokeswoman for Mylan Inc., of Canonsburg,
 Pennsylvania , parent of a defendant, didn’t immediately return a
call for comment.  Caryn C. Borg-Breen, defense attorney for Baltimore-based
Lupin Pharmaceuticals Inc., didn’t immediately return a call for
comment.  The case is Pfizer Inc. v. Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, 09-
cv-307, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patents in the lawsuit, click: 5,563,175;
6,001,876; 6,197,819.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David E. Rovella at   drovella@bloomberg.net . 