-- TPG Said to Seek Oregon Partnership as Fundraising Looms
-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-07-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/tpg-said-to-seek-oregon-partnership-as-fundraising-looms.html
TPG Capital, trailing rivals that
struck partnerships with large U.S. public pension funds, is
seeking to secure its own big-ticket investor, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter.  For the past year, TPG co-founder  Jim Coulter  has been
meeting with officials from pensions to win a large backer for a
separate account, said one of the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. The firm has talked to
the  Oregon  Investment Council about such a deal, though an
agreement isn’t certain, said the people.  TPG, which plans to start raising its next buyout fund in
12 to 18 months, is seeking to join other buyout firms in
securing more permanent capital from a large backer as buyout
funds are shrinking for the first time in the industry’s
history.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , Carlyle Group LP,  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and
 Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  have all paired up with at least
one major U.S. pension, drawing commitments as large as $3
billion. In such deals, investors write big checks and back
multiple strategies at one firm in exchange for better terms
such as lower fees.  “Ideally, it’s a way for firms to get permanent capital,
and a lot better than having to raise it all the time,” said
Michael Forestner, who helps advise large institutions at New
York-based Mercer LLC. “Managers realize that pensions will ask
for special terms and fee breaks anyway, why not get something
out of it?”  Courting Pensions  Fort Worth , Texas-based TPG would use the money from a
future partner to invest in opportunities outside of its
existing funds, according to one of the people. TPG, known for
investments in companies such as Burger King and J. Crew Group
Inc., has about $51.5 billion under management, according to its
website.  Michael Mueller, the interim chief investment officer at
the Oregon pension, declined to comment on whether the pension
has discussed a separate account with TPG. The fund is regularly
in talks with firms over potential investments, he said.  Owen Blicksilver , a spokesman for TPG declined to comment.  TPG’s 2008 fund hadn’t produced a profit for investors as
of March 31, according to data from the Oregon pension fund.
That fund and its 2006 predecessor, whose holdings are valued
below cost, are suffering from a 2008 investment in failed
lender Washington Mutual Inc. In total, TPG’s funds lost about
$1.3 billion when the bank was bailed out that same year at the
peak of the credit crisis.  Funds Shrink  Among TPG’s top-performing funds is the pool it raised in
2000, which has produced a 2.45 times return on invested
capital, according to data from Oregon.  Separately managed accounts are reshaping the model for the
biggest private-equity firms, which traditionally pooled money
into funds with the same terms for multiple investors, such as a
2 percent management fee and as much as 20 percent in a share of
profits known as carried interest.  Those funds are shrinking for the first time as investors
have become more selective about which firms to back since the
2008 financial crisis. There is also more competition for a
smaller pool of investor money, with 1,872 private-equity firms
collectively seeking $801 billion from investors, according to
data from London-based Preqin.  KKR is seeking $10 billion for its newest flagship fund, 43
percent less than it raised for its predecessor. Blackstone has
finished raising its latest buyout fund at $16.2 billion, a
fifth smaller than the prior fund.  Investor Caution  Separately managed accounts can allow private-equity firms
to deploy investors’ capital into deals outside existing funds.
Joncarlo Mark, formerly a senior portfolio manager at  California
Public Employees’ Retirement System , said investors should be
aware of potential risks.  “Typically, investment mandates in big buyout funds are
broad enough that managers can invest in almost anything,” said
Mark, founder of advisory firm Upwelling Capital Group in
 Sacramento ,  California . “Since there’s a lot of flexibility
already, investors should be cautious about whether separate
account money goes toward investments that are consistent with
their risk-adjusted return expectations. One bad deal could eat
all the fee savings of the separate account.”  Calpers, the largest U.S. public pension plan, pioneered
the model of special partnerships with managers a decade ago.
The earliest of these deals resulted in Calpers owning a stake
in the managers themselves. By 2008, Calpers had amassed
ownership shares in  Silver Lake Partners , Apollo and Carlyle.  ‘Tremendous Benefit’  After getting the account from Calpers in 2008,  Silver Lake 
co-founder  Glenn Hutchins  said the arrangement provided
“tremendous benefit to Silver Lake and our limited partners by
bringing important long-term funding.”  Last year, TPG sold stakes of its management company to
Asian and Middle Eastern investors in separate transactions.  Public pensions, struggling to achieve the 7 percent or 8
percent annual return on investment necessary to meet future
liabilities as bond yields have shrunk to historic lows, are
agreeing to the deals in hopes of meeting their return
thresholds.  Apollo’s  Leon Black  and KKR’s  George Roberts  earlier this
year told  Texas ’s largest public pension it can meet an 8
percent annual return target by investing in distressed European
assets and commodities. Texas Teacher Retirement System agreed
in November to invest $3 billion each with Apollo and KKR in
separately managed accounts.  Early Backer  Oregon has backed TPG since its first fund in 1994,
investing outside the firm’s mega-buyout strategy as the firm
diversified. When TPG started a business dedicated to smaller
deals, Oregon committed money to the venture.  Apart from smaller deals, TPG has raised capital for other
strategies outside traditional buyouts, such as pools that focus
on credit-related investments, lending to mid-sized companies
and growth equity. The firm is also seeking to expand into areas
such as energy and real estate.  David Bonderman , 69, and Coulter, 52, founded TPG in 1992
after working for the Bass family together. Shortly after
setting out on their own, the two led a leveraged buyout of
Continental Airlines in 1993. The transaction netted investors
more than 10 times their money. TPG has about 278 employees in
14 offices around the world.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  