-- Polish Rates Show Mistrust of Cheap Money, Adviser Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-07-19T13:34:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/polish-rates-show-mistrust-of-cheap-money-adviser-says.html
Poland ’s central bank should stay
wary of “cheap money” and eschew negative interest rates even
if portfolio investors accuse it of being too conservative, an
adviser to Governor  Marek Belka  said.  “Negative rates are the wrong way to stimulate the economy
and our policy is to mistrust cheap money,” Halina Wasilewska- Trenkner said in an interview in Warsaw yesterday. “Poland is
being described as conducting a conservative or even academic
monetary policy simply because we’re taking the elementary
precaution of avoiding negative real interest rates.”  While central banks across the world are undertaking the
broadest reduction in borrowing costs since 2009 to avert a
global slump stemming from  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis, the
Narodowy Bank Polski is keeping  interest rates  at their highest
since 2009 for a second year.  The bank raised its  interest rates  by a quarter-point in
May to 4.75 percent after keeping it unchanged for almost a year
following a combined 1 percentage-point increase. Still, Polish
consumer prices are rising at the second-fastest pace in the 27-
nation EU, even as the European Commission forecasts the
nation’s  economic growth  will slow to 2.7 percent this year from
4.3 percent in 2011.  “Borrowing costs can’t be absurdly high, but real interest
rates in Poland, while positive, they’re also close to zero,”
said Wasilewska-Trenkner, an adviser to Belka who was  on the
rate-setting Monetary Policy Council from 2004 to 2010.  Growth Concerns  The zloty traded at 4.1565 per euro at 3 p.m. in Warsaw,
rising for a fifth session and gaining 5.8 percent since the
start of June. The zloty is the fourth-best performer among 25
 emerging markets  currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on
the government’s 10-year bond was at 4.865 percent, near the
lowest level since March 2006.  Concern about economic growth has overshadowed inflation, a
“short-term” perspective dominant on financial markets,
Wasilewska-Trenkner said. Low inflation helps ensure investment
returns and policy should be aimed at avoiding a sharp slowdown
in the economy in the long term, she said.  Poland’s central bank on July 4 cut its forecast for
 inflation , saying it will slow to near its target next year from
4.3 percent in June and will be at 3.9 percent at the end of
this year. That means consumer-price growth will exceed the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target for at least 27 months.  “Poland is a small, open economy that is vulnerable to
huge external shocks through both the trade and financial
channels,” Wasilewska-Trenkner said. “This dependency means we
need to pick our policy tools according to the situation and
that is why the MPC is justified in retaining its language about
the possibility of another rate increase should the inflation
outlook deteriorate.”  Foreign Investors  Poland relies on the euro area to buy more than half its
exports, while the parent banks of five of its seven largest
lenders are based in the 17-nation currency bloc. Investors
turning to emerging markets for higher returns boosted non-
resident holdings of Polish debt to 30.7 percent of 523 billion
zloty ($104.5 billion) in outstanding debt at the end of April,
up from 25 percent at end-2010, the latest data show.  “Because the Council is striving to bring inflation back
to the target, bank depositors know that their savings are being
protected and investors can feel more secure about their
anticipated rate of return,” Wasilewska-Trenkner said.
“Efforts to stabilize the currency don’t make it easy to
speculate, so our vigilance isn’t popular with short-term
financial investors. And not well understood.”  Bond Yields  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on official
borrowing costs, are showing a quarter-point rate reduction
within three months for the first time since 2009, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Poland’s 10-year zloty bond yields
tumbled 61 basis points in the last two months to a six-year low
of 4.86 percent yesterday, widening the discount relative to
comparable Italian euro-denominated notes to a six-month high of
115 basis points on July 16, the data show.  “We don’t really need to look much backward to see that
market expectations were wrong for most of the past 12 months,”
Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at the Warsaw unit of  Societe
Generale , said by the phone today. “There isn’t any
justification for immediate reversing of rate policy.”  Vote Breakdown  Eight of the 10 members on the Monetary Policy Council,
including Belka, supported the May rate increase. Since then,
only Elzbieta Chojna-Duch and Andrzej Bratkowski, who both
rejected the motion, have repeatedly urged reversing the
decision as early as September.  Policy makers also voted on a rate-increase motion at their
July 3-4 meeting, Chojna-Duch said in TVN CNBC yesterday. A
breakdown of the balloting will be available on Aug. 16,
according to the central bank.  Speaking in Beijing on July 12, Governor Marek Belka said
that because the Polish central bank doesn’t expect a pickup in
price growth, it is free to use interest-rate cuts to stimulate
the economy if needed. Central banker Andrzej Kazmierczak, in a
July 16 interview, acknowledged policy makers had “moderated”
their rhetoric since the May increase, “but the bank’s new
inflation forecast alone doesn’t warrant a rate cut.”  Jan Winiecki told TVN CNBC on July 13 he sees no reason to
lower interest rates for now as he “isn’t convinced that the
country’s inflation has started slowing.”  ‘Irresponsible’ Approach  Anna Zielinska-Glebocka, another policy maker, told TVN
CNBC today that “it would be irresponsible” for the central
bank to commit to cutting borrowing costs solely in response to
an economic slowdown, as it must consider a wider range of
indicators as well as global economic uncertainty.  “We still expect a majority of the Council will be
reluctant to ease monetary policy before year-end, unless the
risks of a more substantial slowdown intensify,”  Piotr Kalisz ,
chief economist at Citi Handlowy in Warsaw, said by phone today.  Wasilewska-Trenkner said Polish policy makers currently
have a “neutral” bias and may opt to increase or cut rates.  “The real baseline scenario is being set by the day-to-day
decisions being taken at the U.S. Federal Reserve and the
 European Central Bank ,” she said. “That means rate decisions
in Poland will be determined not just by the economic data, but
by a single political event abroad that could sway us one way or
the other.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  