-- Pressure on Lockheed Over F-35 Mandatory, General Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-19T20:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/pressure-on-lockheed-over-f-35-mandatory-general-says.html
President  Barack Obama ’s nominee for
Air Force chief of staff said today it’s “mandatory” that the
Pentagon put pressure on  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  to control costs
for its F-35 fighter jet.  “ Our manufacturing process, our assembly line, is not up
to speed and running to the level we’d hope it would be at this
point in time,” General  Mark Welsh  told the Senate Armed
Services Committee today at his confirmation hearing.  This means “we have not been able to build and deliver
jets on schedule or on an accurately predicted cost,” Welsh,
now commander of the U.S. Air Force in  Europe , said today.  Welsh is familiar with weapons acquisition as a former
chief of Air Force fighter and bomber programs. In 2003 and
2004, he oversaw the F-22’s development when that Lockheed jet
had software failings that had to be overcome before full
production.  Pentagon officials have promised Congress they would get
tougher in negotiations with Bethesda, Maryland-based Lockheed
Martin, the world’s largest defense contractor. The first four
contracts for 63 F-35s are exceeding their combined target cost
by $1 billion, according to congressional auditors.  “Cost is a major concern,” Welsh said today of the $395
billion development and acquisition program, the Pentagon’s most
expensive weapons project.  ‘Stay Focused’  “If we can’t clearly identify how much this airplane will
cost to buy and to fly after we acquire it, then we really have
no idea how many airplanes we can afford or how many we should
expect to receive,” he said.  “Pressure on the company, on the acquisition process
internal to the department is mandatory,” Welsh said. “We have
to stay focused and if confirmed, that would be a daily event
for me,” said Welsh.  Even so, Welsh listed the F-35 as the service’s top
modernization priority, along with the  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s KC-46 tanker
and the new Long Range Strike bomber.  “There’s some good things happening,” he said. “The
aircraft that have been delivered, we’ve flown almost 1,900
hours” and the F-35 Air Force variant “is performing very well
in the test programs,” he said. “I am excited about the
airplane.”  The Air Force plans to buy more than 1,700 of the planned
2,443 production aircraft, which include versions for the Navy
and Marine Corps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  