-- Russia Could Lose Last Arab Ally as Assad Regime Teeters
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-07-19T21:40:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/putin-faces-loss-of-last-arab-ally-as-assad-s-regime-teeters.html
Vladimir Putin  is being caught on
the wrong side of the Arab Spring as the threat to Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime raises the prospect that
 Russia  may be left with  Iran  as its only friend in the region.  The day after a bomb decapitated Assad’s security command
as fighting engulfs Damascus, Russia teamed up once more with
China yesterday to block United Nations sanctions against Syria.  “The Kremlin has pushed itself into a corner that it can’t
get out of, and it should have been smarter about the new order
in the Middle East,”  Theodore Karasik , director of research at
the Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis in Dubai,
said in a phone interview yesterday. “Losing its last Arab ally
and alienating all other former Arab partners, particularly
 Qatar  and Saudi Arabia, is a huge strategic loss for Russia.”  Putin’s decision to stick by the Soviet-era alliance with
Syria means that Russia faces isolation in the region,
jeopardizing efforts to win contracts in Saudi Arabia, which
holds one-fifth of global oil reserves, and Qatar, the world’s
No. 2 natural-gas exporter. The shielding of Assad by President
Putin also has prompted the Obama administration to say Russia
helped speed Syria’s slide into civil war.  Russia and China, among five nations that hold veto power
on the  Security Council , yesterday blocked a Western-drafted
resolution that called for an arms embargo and other sanctions
on Syria. While the draft wouldn’t have authorized military
action, Russia said it left the door open.  Russian Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov  said yesterday that
supporting the measure would “mean direct support for the
revolutionary movement.” It’s the third time Russia has used
its veto to protect Assad.  Putin’s Return  Putin is alienating himself in the Middle East as his
return to the presidency this year, which sparked unprecedented
street protests against his rule, risks exacerbating strains in
Russia’s relations with the U.S. and western  Europe .  In the face of the Obama administration’s eagerness to
“reset” relations with Russia, disagreements over Syria, how
to rein in Iran’s nuclear ambitions and a planned missile-
defense shield in eastern Europe have worsened as Putin
reclaimed the Kremlin after a four-year stint as prime minister.  Syria built an alliance with the Soviet Union after Hafez al-Assad, Bashar’s father, took over the presidency following a
1970 coup, receiving weapons and financial support during the
 Cold War .  Weapons Sales  That relationship has continued. Since 2006, Syria has
signed about $5.5 billion in arms contracts with Russia,
according to estimates by the  Centre for Analysis of Strategies
and Technologies  in Moscow, which advises the defense ministry.
Russia has its only military base outside the former Soviet
Union in the Syrian port of Tartus, which also gives it access
to the Mediterranean and the  Suez Canal .  Russia, which has refused to halt weapons sales to Syria
even as more than 10,000 people died in 17 months of fighting,
dispatched 11 military ships to the Mediterranean Sea on July
10, some bound for Tartus.  Putin may have thought Arab leaders would respect his
decision to stand by Assad, despite their distaste for him,
after the U.S. abandoned Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak , said
 Dennis Ross  of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy who
was a Mideast expert in multiple American administrations.  If so, Putin miscalculated, as he did if he compared the
Syrian regime’s military strength to that of the opposition and
concluded that Assad would prevail, Ross said in an interview
yesterday,  Saudi Response  Instead, Russia’s defense of Assad is irritating some of
the Middle East’s richest nations. Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said in June that Russia should change its stance
on Syria to avoid harming its relations with Arab nations. Saudi
Arabia and Qatar have sent weapons to the Syrian rebels,
according to Syrian and Russian officials.  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, has sought
contracts to build nuclear power stations and railway lines in
Saudi Arabia, as well as Saudi and Qatari investment in Russian
natural-gas projects.  Putin in 2007 became the first Russian leader to visit
Saudi Arabia in a diplomatic breakthrough for the two countries
that had no ties for more than 50 years until 1990. In the
1980s, Saudi Arabia and the U.S. supported the Mujahedeen in
 Afghanistan  in their battle against Soviet occupation.  In 2008, Russia joined with Qatar and other gas producers
to form a club similar to the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries.  Gulf Rift  The rift over Syria between Russia and Qatar and Saudi
Arabia, along with competition from shale-gas changing the
energy market landscape, has quashed hopes of cooperation worth
“billions of dollars” for now, said  Chris Weafer , the chief
strategist at Moscow-based  Troika Dialog (TRDOBNK) , a unit of state-run
 OAO Sberbank. (SBER)   “There has been a noticeable sea change in the rhetoric
between Russia and the Gulf Arab energy producers,” Weafer said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “Relations between Russia
and the Gulf countries are as bad as they have ever been.”  Saudi Arabia on July 15 condemned Russian criticism of
clashes between security forces and protesters in its majority
Shiite Eastern Province as “blatant interference” in its
internal affairs.  Downgrading Ties  Russia downgraded diplomatic ties with Qatar last year
after an assault on its ambassador and two embassy employees by
security and customs officials at Doha airport who were trying
to confiscate a diplomatic pouch.  That would leave Russia with Iran as its only friend in the
region. Russia built Iran’s first nuclear power plant and sells
it some arms. As a mediator in international talks on the
Iranian nuclear program, Russia has opposed unilateral U.S. and
European sanctions while pressuring Iran to agree to UN controls
that would ensure it couldn’t seek to build atomic weapons.  At the same time, Saudi Arabia and Qatar are likely to get
over their dispute with Russia and continue to do business once
the dust has settled, said Jamie Ingram, a London-based Middle
East analyst at IHS Global Insight.  “Both are pragmatic and recognize that Russia’s relations
with Syria are geostrategic rather than ideological, and the
fact that Russia remain a significant global power will prevent
them from damaging relations,” said Ingram.  Backing Assad  Russia is sticking by Assad because Putin won’t gain
anything from backing the campaign to topple him as its Soviet-
era influence in the region declines, said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an
analyst at the Moscow-based Council on Foreign and Defense
Policy.  “Even if Russia had made a 180-degree turn and supported
the revolutions, it would still have been labeled as the power
that supported the ousted dictators,” he said in a phone
interview yesterday.  Putin has vowed to avoid a repeat of the unseating of
 Libya ’s Muammar Qaddafi. His rule of more than 40 years ended
after the North Atlantic Treaty Organization launched a bombing
campaign authorized by the UN Security Council to protect
civilians, with Russia abstaining from the vote.  Russia lost $4 billion in weapons deals with Libya,
according to Sergey Chemezov, head of the state-run Russian
Technologies Corp. OAO Russian Railways had to suspend a $1.5
billion railway contract.  Russia accuses Western powers of abusing the UN mandate in
Libya and has warned that similar efforts to oust Assad would
spark widespread sectarian violence, as the U.S.-led invasion of
 Iraq  did in 2003.  Putin Criticism  “We are all the more worried when we see attempts by some
actors in international relations to maintain their traditional
influence, often by resorting to unilateral action that runs
counter to the principles of international law,” Putin said in
a July 9 speech to Russian diplomats in Moscow. “We see
evidence of this in so-called humanitarian operations, the
export of bomb and missile diplomacy and intervention in
internal conflicts.”  “We see how contradictory and unbalanced the reform
process is in North Africa and the  Middle East , and I am sure
that many of you still have the tragic events in Libya before
your eyes,” Putin said. “We cannot allow a repeat of such
scenarios in other countries, in Syria, for example.”  Nevertheless, said Lukyanov, “It’s impossible to preserve
Russia’s strategic position in the region, as it was all
inherited from Soviet times. That era is over now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  