-- Racial Disparities Persist in Mortgage Industry, Report Finds
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-07-19T22:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/racial-disparities-persist-in-mortgage-industry-report-finds.html
Black and Latino homeowners received
significantly more government-backed loans than white homeowners
in 2010, suggesting that racial discrimination persists in the
mortgage industry, according to a joint report by seven
community development advocacy groups.  Black and Latino borrowers and people buying homes in
predominantly non-white communities received
“disproportionately fewer conventional mortgages” than white
borrowers, the study found. Residents of those minority
neighborhoods were 2.1 times more likely on average to receive
 Federal Housing Administration  and other government-backed
mortgages as residents of mostly white communities.  “Although FHA lending is a vital source of credit for
borrowers of color, the disproportionate prevalence of FHA loans
in communities of color raises fair lending flags,” the authors
wrote in their sixth annual report, “Paying More for the
American Dream.”  Black and Latino borrowers were, respectively, 2.1 and 1.8
times more likely on average to receive government-backed
mortgages than white borrowers in the seven cities studied:
Boston;  Chicago ;  Cleveland ;  Los Angeles ;  New York ;  Charlotte ,
 North Carolina  and Rochester, New York. Los Angeles had the
highest discrepancies for residents of non-white communities
while New York had the highest discrepancies for Latino and
black borrowers.  Government-backed mortgages are insured by the FHA or
guaranteed by the Department of  Veterans Affairs . They often
require smaller down payments and lower credit scores, but can
be more expensive and take longer to get approved, according to
the study.  ‘Pointing Fingers’  While the authors are “pointing fingers” at large
financial institutions for not sufficiently lending to black and
Latino home buyers, the data do not conclusively identify racial
discrimination as the cause of the lending disparities,
according to Kevin Stein, associate director of the California
Reinvestment Coalition and one of the study’s contributors.  The study used loan data provided through the Home Mortgage
Disclosure Act and did not directly study so-called redlining,
or discrimination by lenders based on a borrower’s neighborhood.
Given the history of racial discrimination by conventional
lenders, however, it is likely that redlining is at play, the
authors wrote.  “The fact there are disparities in the markets should
always raise concerns to us, and we need to investigate why this
is the case,” Stein said in a telephone interview.  To combat the disparities and investigate redlining, the
study’s authors recommended prompt implementation of rules in
the Dodd-Frank Act intended to enhance HMDA data and help
regulators identify lending discrimination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  