-- Rajoy Sets Course Against Spanish Protests as Investors Flee
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-07-20T08:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/rajoy-sets-course-against-spanish-protests-as-investors-flee.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will
begin mapping out  Spain ’s economic path through the next 18
months today in the face of mounting pressure from protesters
and investors, who pushed bond yields above 7 percent.  Rajoy will approve spending limits for 2013, the first
stage of the budgeting process, and forecast the impact of
austerity on the economy at a Cabinet meeting at 10 a.m. in
Madrid. European finance ministers will also sign off on a 100
billion-euro ($123 billion) rescue package for Spain’s banks.  Tens of thousands of protested across the country late
yesterday against a 65 billion-euro austerity package that
failed to stem a surge in the government’s borrowing costs.
Investors are shunning assets in  indebted  euro nations while
accepting negative yields on debt from  Germany ,  Finland  and the
Netherlands on concerns the currency union is creaking.  “We may look back on this two-, three-week period as the
time when people just said ‘that’s it,’” said  Gary Jenkins ,
founder of Swordfish Research Ltd. near  London . “They’ve almost
given up on Spain. It’s going to have to be restructured in some
way, shape or form so you just don’t want to touch it.”  Bank Bailout  Spain is planning to complete the European-funded
recapitalization of its banks by June, the  Economy Ministry  said
yesterday. Banks will receive mostly bonds issued by the
European Financial Stability Facility rather than cash, and the
fund will be able to seek collateral from Spain’s bank rescue
facility as a condition, the ministry said.  The  yield  on Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond rose 2 basis
points to 7.04 percent at 9:40 a.m., pushing the gap over
equivalent German securities to 582 basis points.  “They can’t survive for long with this sort of pressure,”
said Jose Carlos Diez, chief economist at Madrid-based brokerage
Intermoney SA. “There is still more fear than anger on the
streets but the demonstrations are increasing and as
unemployment increases, it will get worse.”  About 40,000 people demonstrated yesterday in Barcelona,
where police arrested one protester, said an official at the
regional police force, who asked not to be named in line with
policy. In  Madrid , 15 people were arrested and 39 injured in
clashes, said an official at the national police force, who also
declined to be identified.  Parliament Shielded  Rajoy didn’t attend the debate yesterday on austerity
measures in Parliament, leaving Budget Minister Cristobal
Montoro and Economy Minister Luis de Guindos to defend the plan
as the assembly building was protected by metal barriers. The
decree was ratified with 180 votes, indicating none of the
opposition in the 350-seat chamber supported it.  “From a strategic point of view, it makes sense for Rajoy
to spread the pain across his ministers, as he already announced
the most painful measures last week,”  Antonio Barroso , a
political analyst at Eurasia Group in London, said in a
telephone interview.  After breaching election pledges by cutting  unemployment 
benefits and raising  sales tax , Montoro told lawmakers the
government is planning to change the “unfair” tax treatment of
 capital gains  made by “speculators.”  Referendum Call  Spain’s two biggest unions led the demonstrations
yesterday, calling for a referendum on the measures they
described as an attack on public workers, pensioners and the
unemployed. Oscar-winning actor  Javier Bardem  was pictured at
the demonstration in Madrid.  “They are wrecking the future of a generation,” El Pais
cited the star of “No Country for Old Men” as saying. “It’s
an injustice to take responsibility away from the banking
industry and attack the unemployed, the sick and the poor.”  Supporters marched through the center of the capital amid
heightened security, with armed police guarding the ruling
People’s Party’s headquarters.  “There are no jobs behind this plan,” Ignacio Toxo,
leader of the Comisiones Obreras union said in a televised press
conference. “This is just the destruction of the fabric of our
economy.”  The government will offer forecasts today on the impact of
austerity on output. In April it said the economy would contract
by 1.7 percent this year and grow by 0.2 percent in 2013, before
the EU pushed Rajoy to pass his fourth austerity package in
seven months. De Guindos said yesterday the new estimates
wouldn’t show a “significant change.”  The  International Monetary Fund  said July 16 Spain’s
recession will stretch through next year with a 0.6 percent
contraction. The Washington-based lender sees output declining
1.5 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  