-- South Africa Bond Yields Plunge as Rand Weakens on Rate Cut
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-07-19T15:16:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/rand-gains-for-fifth-day-on-speculation-bank-will-hold-rates.html
South African bonds surged, sending
benchmark yields to the lowest on record, and the rand weakened
after the central bank unexpectedly cut its benchmark interest
rate, citing lower inflation and risks to economic growth.  Yields on the nation’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 dropped
as much as 35 basis points to 5.42 percent. The notes yielded
5.46 percent as of 4:51 p.m. in Johannesburg, a record low on a
closing basis, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rand
retreated 0.3 percent to 8.1868 per dollar, reversing a gain of
0.5 percent in earlier trading.  The Monetary Policy Committee of the South African  Reserve
Bank  lowered its repurchase rate to 5 percent from 5.5 percent,
the first cut since November 2010. Sixteen out of 18 economists
in a Bloomberg survey expected Governor Gill Marcus to leave the
rate unchanged. Policy makers cut the repurchase rate for the
first time since November 2010, joining central banks in  India ,
 Brazil ,  China  and  Europe  in reducing borrowing costs this year
to protect their economies from slower global growth.  “The market started racing as if it is pricing in another
rate cut,” Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic
research at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by
phone. “There is no doubt that they’re emphasizing a much
bigger risk for the economy than there is to inflation.”  Marcus was provided the room to ease monetary policy after
 inflation  eased to a 10-month low in June, slowing further from
the top end of the 3 percent to 6 percent target range.  Inflation  Inflation slowed to 5.5 percent in June from 5.7 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office said yesterday. At the same
time, export demand is coming under pressure amid a debt crisis
in Europe, undermining growth in  Africa ’s biggest  economy . The
government cut its forecast for economic growth this year to 2.7
percent, the slowest pace since a recession in 2009. The Reserve
Bank also lowered its forecast to 2.7 percent for this year.  “The MPC is concerned about the increased downside risks
posed to the domestic economy from global developments,” Marcus
said in a televised statement. “The MPC also considered the
inflation environment to have improved somewhat.”  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on  interest
rates , indicate investors are pricing in another rate cut by
year-end. Contracts starting in December dropped 39 basis points
to 4.82 percent, the lowest on record, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The rate implies about a 36 percent
chance of another cut.  “They got so bearish so fast on the spill over of the euro
zone economy,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
Plc in  London , said in a telephone interview after the decision.
“They have clearly been surprised by the downside of inflation
and with the external growth worries, that has opened the door
for cuts now.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  