-- Travelers Says Profit Goal Not Realistic in Near Term
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-19T13:54:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/travelers-says-profit-goal-not-realistic-in-near-term.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV) , the lone insurer in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , said its goal of mid-teens
return on equity isn’t realistic in the near term as disasters
fuel claim costs and low bond yields hurt investment income.  “Achieving mid-teens ROE is not currently achievable in
the short term,” Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman said on a
conference call today. “That means right now, and likely for
the immediate future.”  Fishman has said his goal is to meet the target “over
time,” and that the standard is unachievable every quarter
because of fluctuations in weather-related claims. Still, the
New York-based company has fallen short for years, with average
annual operating ROE of about 12.9 percent from Jan. 1, 2005
through June 30 of this year, the company said in a  presentation 
today. The figure was 11.8 percent for the first half.  Fishman, 59, has been increasing rates charged to clients
for coverage after weather claims exceeded historical norms,
including damage from hurricanes, tornadoes and hail storms.
Insurers are increasingly relying on underwriting as near
record-low yields limit returns from bond portfolios. Travelers’
second-quarter investment income fell to $589 million from $606
million a year earlier, the company said today.  “We continue to embrace our long-term financial objective
as an aspirational goal,” Fishman said today. “And in that
regard we will continue to take the steps necessary to meet that
goal, as it is stated, over time.”  Travelers slipped 0.8 percent to $63.47 at 9:48 a.m. in  New
York . The company has advanced about 7.3 percent this year.  Net income was $499 million, or $1.26 per share, compared
with a loss of $364 million, or 88 cents, a year earlier, the
insurer said today. Operating profit, which excludes some
investment results, was $1.26 per share, missing the $1.31
average estimate of 22 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  