-- Travelers Posts $499 Million Profit; Disaster Costs Fall
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-19T11:50:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/travelers-posts-499-million-profit-disaster-costs-fall.html
Travelers Cos. (TRV) , the lone insurer in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , posted a second-quarter profit
on lower costs tied to natural disasters.  Net income was $499 million, or $1.26 per share, compared
with a loss of $364 million, or 88 cents, a year earlier, the
New York-based insurer said today in a statement. Operating
profit, which excludes some investment results, was $1.26 per
share, missing the $1.31  average estimate  of 22 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Jay Fishman, 59, has been raising
prices for coverage as near record-low  interest rates  put
pressure on investment income and U.S. storms fuel claims.
Tornadoes in last year’s second quarter cost Travelers more than
 Hurricane Katrina , the 2005 storm that led to widespread
flooding in  New Orleans  and killed about  1,200 people .  “The year-ago quarter was the worst second quarter ever
for U.S. losses,”  Mark Dwelle , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets , said in a phone interview before the results were
announced. “This quarter lacked some of the severity, but there
was a reasonable amount of frequency” of storms and other
events that caused insurance claims, he said.  Catastrophes cost Travelers $357 million in the quarter
after tax and net of reinsurance, compared with $1.09 billion a
year earlier. The losses were primarily the result of wind and
hailstorms in the U.S., the costliest of which struck Illinois,
Indiana, Kentucky,  Missouri  and Texas in April.  Book Value  Travelers’ book value per share, a measure of assets minus
liabilities, rose to $64.90 from $63.81 at the end of March. The
insurer has climbed 8.2 percent this year to $64 through
yesterday in  New York  trading, compared with the 5.7 percent
rise in the 30-company Dow average.  Policy sales climbed to $5.87 billion from $5.82 billion a
year earlier, as the insurer continued to lift rates and change
policy terms. Prices paid by renewing customers in Travelers
business insurance segment climbed by more than 7 percent.  Travelers is “actively and selectively seeking rate and
improvements in terms and conditions given the persistent low
interest rate environment and continuing unusual weather
patterns,” Fishman said in the statement.  Property-casualty insurers increased rates by 4 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, according to MarketScout
data compiled by Bloomberg. Natural disaster losses and low
interest rates on investments led underwriters to charge higher
prices in 2011, reversing six years of declines.  Investment Income  Net investment income fell to $589 million from $606
million a year earlier. Falling yields for fixed-income
securities have hurt insurers’ returns as proceeds from maturing
bonds are reinvested at lower rates. Ten-year Treasuries fell
below 1.5 percent for the first time on June 1.  Chubb Corp., an insurer of commercial property and high-end
homes, said pretax losses from catastrophes in the quarter could
reach $240 million.  Hartford Financial Services Group Inc. (HIG) 
projected its claims at as much as $300 million. Both insurers
report full quarterly results in the next two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  