-- Treasury 30-Year Bonds Fall as Fed Stimulus Speculation Rises
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-07-19T21:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/treasuries-pare-losses-as-u-s-jobless-claims-more-than-forecast.html
Treasury 30-year bonds fell as
speculation increased that the  Federal Reserve  will provide more
monetary stimulus after manufacturing and unemployment-claims
reports added evidence the economy is slowing.  The U.S. sold 10-year inflation-indexed securities at a
record  negative yield  for a fourth consecutive auction of the
securities as investors sought a hedge against the risk of
rising consumer prices. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday during a second day of testimony in  Washington  that
central bankers are ready to act if needed.  “The market is projecting at some point in the near future
that the Fed does act,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-rate
strategist in New York at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of 21
primary dealers that trade with the central bank. “I don’t
think it happens in the next meeting, but the signs are pointing
to further stimulus.”  The yield on the 30-year  bond  rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage points, to 2.61 percent at 5 p.m. in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 3 percent note
due in May 2042 fell 11/32, or $3.44 per $1,000 face value, to
107 31/32. Benchmark  10-year yields  rose one basis point to 1.51
percent.  The Treasury sold $15 billion in 10-year Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities at a so-called high yield of negative 0.637
percent, the fourth auction of the securities where investors
were willing to pay the U.S. to hold their principal. Five-year
TIPS have also been sold at negative yields at the past five
auctions of the securities.  Leading Indicators  Treasury trading  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , rose to $246
billion, the highest since July 11. Trading averaged $242
billion this year.  Purchases of existing homes decreased 5.4 percent to a 4.37
million annual rate last month from a revised 4.62 million in
May, figures from the National Association of Realtors showed
today in Washington. The median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News called for a 4.62 million pace.  The Conferences Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months decreased 0.3 percent after a revised 0.4
percent increase in May, the New York-based group said today.
Economists projected the gauge would drop by 0.1 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Leading indicators rolled over -- this isn’t a
particularly optimistic period,” said  Dan Greenhaus , chief
global strategist at the broker-dealer BTIG LLC in New York.
“There’s a bit of a higher probability that the U.S. is in a
recession right now. It’s a slightly higher probability than
some believe.”  ‘Quantitative Easing’  Applications for  jobless benefits  increased by 34,000 to
386,000 in the week ended July 14, Labor Department figures
showed. Economists forecast 365,000 claims, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The volatility in
the numbers was due to a change in the timing of annual
automobile plant layoffs, a Labor Department spokesman said as
the data were released.  “The Fed is going to put on some type of quantitative
easing as we go forward,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in  New York  of government- and agency-debt trading at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. Bernanke “did not address the timing
and the details, so we have some softness because of that.”  The Fed has purchased $2.3 billion of mortgage and Treasury
debt in two separate rounds of asset purchases intended to
stimulate the economy, known as quantitative easing. While
policy makers refrained from introducing a third round of
purchases last month, Bernanke indicated this week in two days
of Washington testimony that it remains an option.  Inflation, Deflation  The central bank purchased $1.8 billion of bonds due from
February 2036 to May 2042 today as part of another program known
as Operation Twist. The Fed is swapping short-term Treasuries in
its holdings for longer maturities to put downward pressure on
long-term borrowing costs.  “The fear of the Fed is not of inflation, it’s of
deflation,” said  Charles Comiskey , head of Treasury trading at
primary dealer  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  in New York. “There’s a
better chance of falling into deflation.”  TIPS have handed investors a 5.8 percent return this year,
compared with a 2.7 percent gain for conventional Treasuries,
according to indexes compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  U.S. inflation-protected notes pay interest on a principal
amount that increases at the same rate as the Labor Department’s
consumer price index.  Consumer Prices  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help guide
monetary policy, was 2.4. The figure compares with 2012’s high
of 2.78 percentage points and the average of 2.75 percent for
the past decade.  U.S. consumer prices rose 1.7 percent in June from the year
before, the Labor Department reported on July 17. A Bloomberg
survey of economists projected 1.6 percent, which would have
been the lowest level in 17 months.  The U.S. will sell $35 billion of two-year notes, the same
amount of five-year securities and $29 billion of seven-year
debt over three days starting July 24, the Treasury announced
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  