-- Treasury Auctions 10-Year TIPS at Record Low Negative Yield
-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-07-19T19:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/treasury-sells-15-billion-of-tips-at-record-low-negative-yield.html
The Treasury sold $15 billion in 10-
year inflation-indexed notes at a record negative yield as
investors sought a hedge against rising consumer prices amid
speculation the  Federal Reserve  will add more stimulus.  The Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, or TIPS, were
sold at a so-called high yield of negative 0.637 percent, the
fourth consecutive auction of the securities where investors
were willing to pay the U.S. to hold their principal. Five-year
TIPS have also been sold at negative yields at the past five
auctions of the securities.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony before the
 House of Representatives  yesterday that economic activity
decelerated during the first half of the year, adding that
policy makers are prepared to take further action as needed. The
central bank bought $2.3 trillion in debt in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing, beginning in November 2008, to avert
a prolonged decline in prices, or deflation, and to boost the
economy from the recession that ended in June 2009.  “You’re seeing additional accommodation out of all the
central banks,” said Brett Rose, an interest-rate strategist in
New York at Citigroup Inc., one of 21 primary dealers that are
required to bid at government-debt auctions. Additional Fed
stimulus this year “is a high-likelihood event,” Rose said.  The securities pay interest at lower rates than regular
Treasuries on a principal amount that’s adjusted based on the
Labor Department’s consumer price index.  Consumer Prices  The cost of living in the U.S. was unchanged in June, as
energy prices declined. The consumer-price index climbed 1.7
percent for the 12 months ended June, matching the slowest pace
since January 2011, down from 3.9 percent for the 12 months
ended September 2011, the Labor Department said July 17. The so-
called core measure, which excludes food and energy costs,
climbed 0.2 percent.  The  European Central Bank , the People’s Bank of  China  and
the  Bank of England  each moved to bolster their economies on
July 5 as global economic growth has shown signs of faltering.  The ECB and China’s central bank cut their benchmark
borrowing costs, while the BOE raised the size of its asset-
purchase program. The central banks acted two weeks after the
Fed said it would extend a policy known as Operation Twist, in
which it sells short-term securities and uses the proceeds to
buy longer-term debt to $667 billion from $400 billion.  Auction Results  The bid-to-cover ratio for the notes, which gauges demand
by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.62,
compared with an average of 2.75 at the past 10 auctions of the
securities.  Indirect bidders, a category of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 44.2 percent of the securities at
the sale today, compared to an average of 40.7 percent at the
past 10 auctions.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 16.1 percent of
the securities, versus an 12.6 percent average at the past 10
auctions.  Every issue of inflation-indexed debt sold by the Treasury
with maturities up to 2029 is trading at a negative yield. The
U.S. inflation-protected debt with the highest yield is 2.125
percent bond maturing February 2042, which reached as high as
0.36 percent.  Break-Even Rate  Oil advanced to the highest level in eight weeks on rising
concern that faltering stability in the  Middle East  will disrupt
supplies from a region responsible for about one-third of world
production.  “The backdrop of potential Fed easing, of crude that seems
resurgent today, of commodities, is conspiring in a way to move
expectations of headline inflation higher,” said Aaron Kohli,
an interest-rate strategist BNP Paribas in New York, a primary
dealer.  U.S. inflation-linked debt maturing in 10 or more years has
returned 10.2 percent this year, compared with a 5.9 percent
gain in the broader TIPS market and a 2.7 percent gain in the
overall Treasury market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes
show.  The difference between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
comparable TIPS, a gauge of expectations for inflation during
the life of the debt known as the  break-even  rate, was 2.11
percentage points. The average during the past decade is 2.15
percentage points.  “Our expectation has been that the Fed’s going to do
another QE program, it’s a matter of when,” said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York ,a
primary dealer. “You have the market thinking you’re going to
have 2 percent headline inflation over the next decade. That’s
not exactly high.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  