-- Treasuries Decline as Stocks Rally on Earnings
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-07-19T11:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/treasury-yield-is-near-record-low-after-bernanke-speech.html
Treasury 10-year yields were within
six basis points of a record low before a government report that
economists said will show claims for jobless benefits rose last
week, underpinning demand for the safest assets.  Yields on 10-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
were four basis points from the least ever before the U.S. sells
$15 billion of the notes today. Two-year  note yields  dropped to
the lowest level since January as Morgan Stanley, the sixth-
biggest  U.S. bank , reported a 50 percent drop in earnings and
after Spanish borrowing costs increased at a debt sale.  “There’s a supportive environment for Treasuries,” said
 Vincent Chaigneau , global head of interest-rate strategy at
Societe Generale SA in Paris. “We also have a global economic
slowdown, the situation in  Europe  remains very difficult and
there are still many risks around.”  The benchmark  10-year yield  was little changed at 1.49
percent at 7:26 a.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note due in May 2022 traded at
102 10/32. The yield fell to a record 1.4387 percent on June 1.  Two-year yields declined one basis point to 0.21, the
lowest level since Jan. 31.  Applications for jobless benefits increased to 365,000 in
the week ended July 14 from 350,000 the previous week, according
to a Bloomberg News survey before the Labor Department report.  Economists say other figures today will show sales of
existing homes rose, an index of leading economic indicators
fell, and manufacturing in the Philadelphia area shrank,
according to separate Bloomberg surveys.  Morgan Stanley  Morgan Stanley’s second-quarter profit declined to $591
million from $1.19 billion a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today. Excluding accounting adjustments tied to the
company’s own credit spreads, profit was 16 cents a share, below
the 29 cent average estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Spain  sold five-year notes at an average yield of 6.46
percent, up from 6.07 percent at the previous auction on June
21. Investors bid for 2.06 times the number of securities
allotted, versus 3.44 last month. The nation also sold two- and
seven-year debt.  U.S. TIPS yielded negative 0.65 percent, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The  difference  between the inflation-protected
yield and the benchmark rate, a gauge of trader expectations for
consumer prices, was 2.08 percentage points.  Inflation Outlook  “People think inflation will be around 2 percent in the
long term, lending some support to TIPS,” said Tomohisa Fujiki,
a strategist at BNP Paribas Securities Japan Ltd. in  Tokyo .
“It’s natural that yields on TIPS are negative because all
Treasury yields are falling.” BNP’s U.S. unit is one of the 21
primary dealers that trade directly with the Fed.  U.S. inflation-protected notes pay interest on a principal
amount that increases at the same rate as the Labor Department’s
consumer price index.  TIPS have handed investors a 5.9 percent return this year
through yesterday, compared with a 2.7 percent gain for
conventional Treasuries, according to indexes compiled by Bank
of America Merrill Lynch.  The previous 10-year TIPS sale on May 17 drew a record low
auction yield of negative 0.391 percent. Investors  bid  for 3.01
times the amount of debt offered, the most since April 2010.
Indirect bidders, which include foreign central banks, bought
50.7 percent, the highest level since November 2010.  Break-Even Rate  The five-year, five-year forward  break-even rate , a measure
of inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help guide
monetary policy, was 2.4 percent as of July 16. The figure
compares with 2012’s high of 2.78 percentage points and the
average of 2.75 percent for the past decade.  U.S. consumer prices rose 1.7 percent in June from the year
before, the Labor Department reported on July 17. A Bloomberg
survey of economists projected 1.6 percent, which would have
been the lowest level in 17 months.  The Fed is swapping short-term Treasuries in its holdings
for longer maturities to put downward pressure on long-term
borrowing costs. The central bank plans to buy as much as $2
billion of bonds due from February 2036 to May 2042 today as
part of the plan, according to the Fed Bank of  New York   website .  Treasury 10-year yields may fall to a record 1.25 percent
in the next several months as the  U.S. economy  struggles to
grow, said Marc Fovinci, head of fixed income at Ferguson
Wellman Capital Management Inc. in  Portland ,  Oregon , which has
$3.1 billion in assets.  “Our economy certainly isn’t moving anywhere fast,”
Fovinci said. “That’s going to keep a flight-to-quality bid.”  The U.S. will announce today the sizes of three auctions
due next week. It will sell $35 billion of two-year notes, the
same amount of five-year securities and $29 billion of seven-
year debt over three days starting July 24, according to
Wrightson ICAP LLC, an economic advisory company in  Jersey City ,
 New Jersey .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  