-- REC Leads OBX Higher as Profit, Costs Beat Estimates: Oslo Mover
-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 2012-07-19T09:13:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/rec-leads-obx-index-higher-as-quarterly-earnings-beat-estimates.html
Renewable Energy Corp. (REC) , the solar-
energy group grappling with falling demand, gained the most in
almost three months in Oslo after its earnings beat estimates
and it said it will continue cutting costs to improve profit.  Shares in REC gained as much as  11 percent , the most since
April 25, and traded 9.7 percent higher at 2.15 kroner as of
9:55 a.m. in the Norwegian capital, making it the biggest gainer
on the Oslo stock exchange’s benchmark OBX index today.  REC posted second-quarter earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization excluding items of 230 million
kroner ($38 million), beating the 122 million kroner average
estimate of six analysts in a Bloomberg survey. The result was
boosted by higher sales and lower costs, even as overcapacity
curbed prices, which fell 8 percent in the quarter, REC said.  The company’s silicon unit was “especially strong, with
continued cost improvement and higher than expected volumes,”
Pareto Securities ASA analyst Eirik Vegem Dahle said in an e-
mail. “Solar was also decent, with strong volumes but costs
slightly above our expectations.”  REC, whose shares have fallen 99 percent since listing six
years ago, is trying to improve its finances as excess capacity
and weakening demand cut profit. The company, like its European
peers Solarworld AG and Q-Cells SE, is under pressure from
Chinese rivals that expanded capacity just as demand slowed,
causing wafer and cell prices to plummet. Demand also shrank as
France, Italy and  Germany  reduced subsidies to cap booming solar
installations.  Takeover Candidate  REC is “definitely one of the better takeover candidates”
because it’s competitive in terms of costs, ABG Sundal Collier
Holding ASA analyst Andreas Strand said by phone from Oslo.
“It’s always a matter of price but right now we haven’t seen
any major activity in M&A in the solar market.”  While “there are always approaches” in terms of mergers
and acquisitions, REC hasn’t seen anything “concrete,” Chief
Executive Officer Ole Enger said in an interview in Oslo today.
“There aren’t many companies that can afford to spend money on
mergers and that’s holding it back,” he said, without
commenting further.  REC cut the cost of producing wafers and modules during the
quarter and announced plans for further reductions, “which is
supportive to our investment case,” Pareto’s Dahle wrote. “We
reiterate our buy rating and target of 3.3 kroner.”  Debt Worry  Solar energy companies including REC have cut costs and
reduced capacity to align their operations with falling demand.
REC, based at Sandvika near Oslo, earlier this month raised 1.3
billion kroner through a share offer even after failing to
persuade holders of its convertible bonds to accept changes to
their agreements.  “Operationally the report was good but still the  cash flow 
compared to the major debt installments in 2014 are worrying
us,” ABG’s Strand said. REC has 2.4 billion-kroner of euro
bonds and 650 million-kroner of kroner bonds due to  mature in
2014 , according to its second quarter report.  Strand’s hold recommendation on REC is under review, he
said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  