-- Red Sox Owners See Profit Beyond New England in Liverpool Soccer
-- B y   R o g e r   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-19T21:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/red-sox-owners-see-profit-beyond-new-england-in-liverpool-soccer.html
On a steamy night in April, Fenway
Park is gussied up with bunting as the Boston  Red Sox  prepare to
host the  Texas Rangers .  The owner’s box is a mix of corporate and academic types,
including hedge-fund managers and the president of a nearby
liberal arts college. Red Sox co-owner  Tom Werner  holds court,
recounting the experience of witnessing one of the two other
teams he co-owns win a big title, Bloomberg Businessweek reports
in its July 23 issue.  “People say it must have been fun, but watching the game
was hell,” Werner said. “The fun came later.”  The trophy his players captured in February was the Carling
Cup and the team is Liverpool Football Club of English soccer’s
Premier League. Although the tournament lacked the prestige of a
Premier League title, the win helped fans warm to the team’s new
custodians.  As chairman of Fenway Sports Group, Werner and his partner
 John Henry  took control of Liverpool in October 2010 for a cut-
rate price after paying off about $300 million worth of the
club’s debt.  While Henry conceded they knew “virtually nothing” about
the Premier League or soccer before buying the club, recognizing
the global reach and moneymaking potential of the sport didn’t
require much expertise.  U.S. Owners  The U.S., soccer resistant for so long, is now home to the
owners of five of the 20 clubs in  England ’s top tier.  Manchester
United , owned by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers’ Glazer family, is the
most valuable sports team in the world, according to a Forbes
estimate. Arsenal, controlled by St. Louis Rams owner  Stan Kroenke , is the fourth-richest club. Liverpool, winner of 18
English league championships, is the eighth.  On July 25, Werner will preside over a rare collision of
worlds as Fenway’s pitcher’s mound and foul lines are replaced
with penalty areas and soccer goals.  In one of 39 games being played in  North America  this
summer by high-profile foreign clubs, Liverpool will battle
 Italy ’s Roma, which happens to belong to a Red Sox minority
owner, Thomas DiBenedetto.  While Werner and Henry weren’t exactly welcomed by Boston
fans in 2002 when they bought the Red Sox and  New England  Sports
Network for $700 million, their methodology of sourcing untapped
streams of commercial revenue helped secure top talent and usher
in the franchise’s most successful era since the early 1900s.  World Series  The Red Sox won the  World Series  in 2004 and 2007, helping
the number of corporate sponsors jump to 95 from 35 in the past
decade.  Werner and Henry “spent money, reorganized the team, and
fixed a ballpark that everyone said couldn’t be fixed,” said
Bill Simmons, Massachusetts-born editor-in-chief of ESPN’s
online review Grantland.  “They couldn’t have been better owners coming out of the
gate,” Simmons said.  (The author is a regular contributor to Grantland.)  Starting in 2007, Fenway began expanding its portfolio,
buying a 50 percent stake in Nascar’s Roush Racing for
$50 million. Seeking an acquisition with more “worldwide
appeal,” Werner said, it turned to Liverpool, a club near
bankruptcy because of debt piled up by North American owners  Tom Hicks  and  George Gillett .  “Someone mentioned Liverpool’s games against Manchester
United draw an estimated 500 million global television
audience,” said Werner. “Coming from MLB, we simply could not
relate to that number.”  Each game in the 2011 World Series was watched by
16 million people on average.  Free Market  Werner was also attracted to the fact that the Premier
League operates without the salary restrictions, player drafts
and revenue sharing of U.S. sports leagues.  “In baseball, when you acquire a franchise, you are one-
thirtieth of an industry,” he said. “If we sell a Liverpool
jersey to a supporter in Jakarta, we keep 100 percent of that.”  Sam Kennedy, president of Fenway Sports Management, said
the Liverpool deal opens new markets to the company’s corporate
partners, including Boston-area based companies such as New
Balance and  Dunkin’ Donuts .  “Red Sox Nation can only expose a sponsor to six states,”
he said.  By enabling FSG to expand its corporate relationships
worldwide, Liverpool can act as a global amplifier.  In January, Liverpool announced the most lucrative jersey
deal soccer has ever seen, a $40 million-a-year partnership with
a New Balance subsidiary called Warrior.  Added Heat  The final piece of Fenway’s worldwide marketing strategy
came in April 2011 with the signing of  LeBron James . In exchange
for acting as James’s global marketing representative -- the
Miami Heat star may be divisive at home but is widely beloved in
 Asia  -- FSG offered him a minority ownership share in Liverpool.  Asked why James eschewed more traditional agencies, his
business manager, Maverick Carter, said: “They don’t own sports
franchises last time I checked.”  Liverpool is far removed from its glory days. Beginning in
the 1990s, the historically great club struggled to adapt to the
globalization of English soccer and was eclipsed by Manchester
United both on the field and commercially.  Werner is confident he, using the methodologies perfected
at Fenway, can restore Liverpool’s fortunes -- even though he’d
never been to a Liverpool game before buying the team.  On-Field Failure  Results have been mixed so far. Before the 2011 season,
Fenway splashed $179 million on a crew of underperforming
players who failed to qualify Liverpool for the elite European
tournament, the  Champions League . In May, the club posted an
$80 million loss for 2011.  “No supporter will take pleasure where we are right now,”
said Werner.  Henry said the past 18 months have been humbling.  “Our first year and a half was spent learning as much as
we could,” he said. “We’re just now really beginning to
understand what we have to do differently.”  Over the past three months, Fenway overhauled Liverpool’s
management team. They fired manager  Kenny Dalglish  and hired
 Brendan Rodgers .  “I genuinely think a club of our status and value to the
football world, we can go (win) again,” said Rodgers. “But
it’s going to take time, and whether it will be in my time, I’m
not so sure.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Bennett via Julian Sancton in  New York  at   jsancton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Keenan  Mayo in New York at 
 kmayo3@bloomberg.net  