-- Report Finds FBI Shortcomings in Probing Fort Hood Shooter
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 2012-07-19T22:41:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/report-finds-fbi-shortcomings-in-probing-fort-hood-shooter-1-.html
The FBI failed to recognize the
threat posed by U.S. Army Major Nidal Hasan before he allegedly
killed 13 people at Fort Hood,  Texas , because poor organization,
overwork and concern about a “politically sensitive” case all
led to an assessment that was “belated, incomplete and
rushed,” according to an independent report.  “The attack could have been prevented” if the Defense
Department and FBI “had acted sensibly and responsibly based on
the evidence they had of Hasan’s radicalization to violent
Islamist extremism,”  Joseph Lieberman , a Connecticut
independent who heads the Senate  Homeland Security  and
Governmental Affairs Committee, said today after the release of
the report.  The review, led by former Federal Bureau of Investigation
Director William Webster, makes 18 recommendations for policy
and procedural changes at the agency and the  Justice Department .
It was based on more than 50 formal interviews, meetings and
briefings, as well as more than 10,000 pages of documents and
input from more than 300 people.  Republican lawmakers had criticized the FBI after the 2009
rampage, which also injured 42 at the Army base, for not
pursuing Hasan earlier because it might have been overly
concerned with offending Muslims.  ‘Politically Sensitive’  The report includes the account of a telephone call between
a member of the antiterrorism task force in the FBI’s San Diego
field office and another in  Washington . On that call, according
to one of the agents, it was said that Hasan wasn’t interviewed
by the agency’s Washington field office because it was
“politically sensitive,” the report said.  Hasan had been communicating by e-mail with Anwar al-
Awlaki, a U.S.-born radical cleric who was part of al-Qaeda in
Yemen. Al-Awlaki was killed in a U.S. drone strike last year.  U.S. Representative  Peter King  of  New York , chairman of the
House Committee on Homeland Security, said the report was “a
stark reminder” of the threat of radicals inside the U.S.
“that absolutely must be addressed head-on by the federal
government without concern for political correctness.”  “Individuals who handled the Hasan information made
mistakes,” according to the report. “We do not find, and do
not suggest, that these mistakes resulted from intentional
misconduct or the disregard of duties.”  The report also found that an agent in the San Diego field
office, who reviewed an e-mail in which Hasan told al-Awlaki
“suicide is permissible,” decided it was “not a product of
interest” for the investigation.  While not singling out any agents by name for criticism,
the report urged the FBI to create better policies to guide
investigations. The agents weren’t named in the unclassified
version of the report that was released.  “We constantly strive to improve our policies and
procedures, and I appreciate the final report’s acknowledgment
of the actions that the FBI has taken since the shootings,” FBI
Director  Robert Mueller  said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  