-- Rising Oil Prices to Bolster Demand for Clean Energy, EDP Says
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-07-19T08:42:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/rising-oil-prices-to-bolster-demand-for-clean-energy-edp-says.html
EDP Renovaveis SA (EDPR) , the renewables
unit of  EDP-Energias de Portugal SA , expects higher  oil prices 
to boost demand for cleaner and cheaper sources of energy.  “The renewable energy business model is based
fundamentally on the need to produce cleaner and cheaper
energy,” Chief Executive Officer Joao Manso Neto said in an
interview in Lisbon yesterday. “The bigger the rise in oil
prices the more it becomes evident that this tendency for the
medium term is correct.”  Oil advanced for a seventh day in  New York , the longest run
of gains since February, to $90.65 a barrel in electronic
trading. EDP, which says its renewable energy unit is the
world’s third-biggest wind power producer, is investing in dams
and wind turbines to cut reliance on fossil fuels.  While EDP Renovaveis expects to carry out a plan to invest
3.2 billion euros ($3.9 billion) through 2015 on wind capacity
and expand to eastern  Europe  and Brazil, the Lisbon-based
company will have no problem adjusting these investments if
market conditions change, Manso Neto said.  “If profitable investment opportunities are not there or
financing conditions are worse than expected we will have no
problem adjusting” the program, he said.  The plan will help add 2.3 gigawatts of wind generation in
markets such as Poland, Romania and Brazil, EDP Renovaveis said
May 22. The company had 7.5 gigawatts of capacity at the end of
2011.  “Spain, the U.S. and  Portugal  are our most important
markets,” Manso Neto said. “The sources of growth for the next
phase of this plan will mainly be high-growth markets in eastern
Europe and  Brazil .”  EDP Renovaveis rose 0.4 percent to 2.706 euros as of 9:30
a.m. in Lisbon, giving the company a market value of 2.36
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  