-- Roche’s Secret Heart Drug Moves Toward Late-Stage Trial
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-07-20T15:45:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/roche-cholesterol-drug-moves-toward-late-stage-trial.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  is planning a
final-stage trial of a drug that taps into a gene mutation to
lower cholesterol and heart attack risk beyond what statins such
as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s $9.6 billion-selling Lipitor can do.  The experimental treatment RG7652, developed by the Swiss
drugmaker’s Genentech unit, has been tested in enough people to
show it reduces bad cholesterol as expected, said  Hal Barron ,
the company’s chief medical officer. Roche hasn’t published data
on RG7652 or mentioned it in news releases.  The effort puts Roche into the middle of one of the most
promising and competitive areas of  drug development . High
cholesterol is a leading contributor to  cardiovascular disease ,
the No. 1 cause of death in the world. Cholesterol-lowering
treatments were a $38.7 billion market in 2011, according to IMS
Health. Sanofi and partner  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. (REGN) ,  Amgen
Inc. (AMGN)  and Pfizer are among the companies working on similar
medicines targeting the PCSK9 gene.  “These drugs allow us to go where no one has gone
before,”  Steven Nissen , chairman of the Department of
Cardiovascular Medicine at the  Cleveland Clinic  in  Ohio , said by
phone a few hours after a meeting with Amgen about the design of
another study. “There’s a tremendous amount of interest among a
broad range of makers of pharmaceuticals to get involved.”
Nissen isn’t involved in Roche’s research.  Roche’s Timing  Roche, based in Basel,  Switzerland , is enrolling patients
in a mid-stage trial of the drug. Next year, the company plans
to begin the third and usually final phase of clinical testing
needed before seeking regulatory approval to sell the new
medicine, according to an article in an internal Roche
newsletter.  This timing would put Roche about 12 to 15 months behind
Sanofi and Regeneron and nine months to a year behind Amgen,
Eric Le Berrigaud, a Paris-based analyst for Bryan Garnier &
Co., wrote in a note to clients today.  Roche hasn’t talked about the project publicly because
anti-PCSK9 research is very competitive, said Robin Snyder, a
Genentech spokeswoman, in an e-mail. Executives plan to discuss
it at a presentation to analysts and investors in London in
September.  The company, Europe’s second-largest drugmaker by sales
after  Novartis AG (NOVN) , doesn’t have a cardiovascular medicine among
its  10 biggest-selling products . The company in May abandoned an
effort to develop dalcetrapib, a treatment to increase so-called
good cholesterol, after an independent group of experts said
patient trials didn’t show clinically meaningful efficacy.  Mutated Gene  The PCSK9 gene makes a protein that disrupts the ability of
liver cells to strip bad cholesterol out of the blood. About 3
percent of people have a mutated version of this gene, resulting
in less accumulation of bad cholesterol. The experimental
medicines may extend that benefit to people who don’t have the
mutation. Most of the drugs are given as a once- or twice-
monthly injection.  Anti-PCSK9 drugs could help some 1.5 million Americans who
aren’t able to take statins, or as many as 11 million people
including those whose cholesterol doesn’t go low enough on a
statin, Regeneron Chief Financial Officer Murray Goldberg said
in June.  Sanofi (SAN)  and Regeneron said in March that their drug cut
levels of LDL, the bad cholesterol, by as much as 72 percent on
top of Lipitor in a 183-person trial. Tarrytown, New York-based
Regeneron and its Paris-based partner said today they are
enrolling more than 22,000 patients in more than 10 late-stage
trials. The program includes an 18,000-person test of their
drug’s effect on outcomes such as heart attacks and strokes.  ‘As Expected’  Regeneron’s results shouldn’t have surprised anyone who
understands the science behind the project, Barron said in an
interview last week at Genentech’s South San Francisco
headquarters.  “If this didn’t work, we should all go home,” he said.
“It behaved exactly as expected.”  What’s unclear is exactly what companies will need to do to
get an anti-PCSK9 drug approved in an environment where so many
patients are already taking statins, he said. Companies may need
to show whether their drugs help prevent heart attacks, not just
that they lower cholesterol more than statins, he said.  “It’s not incredibly intuitive that it’s just going to be
a linear relationship: the lower the lower the lower, the better
the better the better,” Barron said. “There may be a ceiling
effect.”  ‘Geared Up’  While only the  Food and Drug Administration  can say for
sure what kinds of testing will be required, the agency will
probably approve the drugs based on their cholesterol-lowering
properties and a “very good demonstration of safety,” as long
as companies promise to follow up with studies that look at
disease and death rates, Nissen said. The cardiologist is a
former chairman of the agency’s CardioRenal Advisory Panel.  The Roche corporate executive committee gave the go-ahead
in February for the drug to move toward phase three, which is
usually the last of the stages of patient trials, according to
the newsletter. Nothing has been decided about the design of
that study, said Snyder.  “Phase three is being geared up,” said Richard Scheller,
 Genentech ’s chief scientific officer, in a separate interview
last week at the unit’s headquarters. He said he expects Roche
will need to show the outcome of treatment with the drug and
whether it’s effective at helping people.  Showing Safety  “The early part of the trial goes very quickly, because
you can just measure cholesterol and see that it goes down,” he
said. “But then again you have to show it’s effective, which it
will be, because it lowers cholesterol, and you have to show
that it’s safe, again a major deal for drugs in areas outside
oncology.”  Anti-PCSK9 is less risky than dalcetrapib, the drug that
failed to boost good cholesterol, or HDL, Scheller said.  “It’s considerably less risky because it’s approaching a
proven -- a proven in tens of millions of people proven --
target, versus HDL, which was in a number of ways a more
innovative target, but much greater risk,” Scheller said.  Amgen is testing its anti-PCSK9 drug in five second-stage
trials, the  Thousand Oaks , California-based company said this
week. New York-based Pfizer said this week its compound is in
late phase two development.  Also researching in the area are  Merck & Co. (MRK) , based in
 Whitehouse Station ,  New Jersey ; New York-based  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY) ; and  Alnylam Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY) , based in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  Roche fell 0.4 percent to close at 171 Swiss francs in
Zurich.  ‘Blockbuster Potential’  If anti-PCSK9 drugs prove to be safe and effective, “it
will be hard for me to imagine them not having blockbuster
potential,” Alnylam Chief Executive Officer John Maraganore
said in a telephone interview, meaning drugs with more than $1
billion a year in sales.  The future for anti-PCSK9 drugs may be in showing how they
fit together and which has the most desirable characteristics,
Barron said.  “There may never be -- or at least not in the near future
-- a class of drugs with the impact of statins,” Nissen said.
“But this is a big one. This is a very promising class of
drugs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  