-- Romance Novelists Sue Harlequin Over E-Book Royalty Claims
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-07-19T19:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/romance-novelists-sue-harlequin-over-e-book-royalty-claims-1-.html
The relationship between novelists
and romance-book publisher Harlequin Enterprises has soured over
royalty fee contracts for electronic books.  Three authors sued Toronto-based Harlequin Enterprises, the
world’s largest publisher of romance novels, today in federal
court in  Manhattan , alleging the company has exploited a
technicality in their contracts to pay them 21 percent less in
royalties.  At issue is whether Harlequin Enterprises, a unit of
newspaper and book publisher  Torstar Corp. (TS/B) , is the publisher of
the books, or whether it has licensed its Fribourg, Switzerland-
based subsidiary, Harlequin Switzerland, to distribute the
e-books, according to the complaint.  The agreement with Harlequin specifies that the authors are
entitled to 50 percent of the publisher’s net receipts from both
the e-books and the hard copies, according to the complaint. The
publisher receives 50 percent of proceeds from the sales,
meaning the authors would receive 25 percent of the cover price
in royalties, according to the complaint.  Instead, the writers alleged, Harlequin claims to have
licensed the publishing rights to Harlequin Switzerland,
entitling the writers to only 50 percent of what the Swiss
company receives -- 6 to 8 percent, which reduces the writers’
fee to 3 to 4 percent for each book.  ‘Unjust Acts’  The writers have asked the court to certify a class action
on behalf of what they estimate is 1,000 similarly affected
authors worldwide.  “Harlequin Enterprises’ domination and control of
Harlequin  Switzerland  has been used to commit wrongs and unjust
acts that have injured plaintiffs and the other class members,”
the authors said in the complaint.  David B. Wolf, the attorney representing the authors,
declined to comment on the suit or give an estimated amount of
lost royalties.  “Our authors have been recompensed fairly and properly for
their work, and we will be defending ourselves vigorously,”
Donna Hayes, publisher and chief executive officer of Harlequin,
said in a statement.  Harlequin  publishes more than 110 titles monthly and has
more than 1,200 authors around the world, it said in its
statement.  The case is Barbara Keiler v. Harlequin Enterprises
Limited, 12cv5558, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New
York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  