-- Romanian Panel Says Premier Ponta Didn’t Plagiarize Thesis
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-19T18:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/romanian-panel-says-premier-ponta-didn-t-plagiarize-thesis-1-.html
A Romanian ethics board set up by
the Economy Ministry said Prime Minister Victor Ponta didn’t
plagiarize his doctoral thesis, contradicting a ruling made by
another panel last month.  The board said Ponta followed rules from 2003 when he
completed his PhD, according to a statement published on its
 website today . A third panel set up by the University of
Bucharest, which granted Ponta his degree, is due to deliver a
report on the plagiarism allegations tomorrow around noon,
according to an e-mailed statement.  “In my opinion,” the ethics board’s report “means that
this is a closed case,” Education Minister Ecaterina Andronescu
said in a speech broadcast on public television TVR Info.  Ponta, 39, became the eastern European country’s third
premier this year on May 7. He is also at least the third
political leader in  Europe  to face questions about preparations
for a doctoral title.  Plagiarism accusations prompted former Hungarian President
Pal Schmitt to resign in April after losing his doctoral title
in sports, while German Defense Minister Karl-Theodor zu
Guttenberg quit his Cabinet post in March last year amid
allegations of plagiarism.  Allegations Published  Ponta said  Romania ’s ethics committee is the only panel
entitled to rule on the plagiarism allegations published in
 Nature  magazine and  Germany ’s Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung.  Documents provided by an unidentified source to Nature
showed that more than half of Ponta’s 432-page dissertation on
the  International Criminal Court  for the doctorate he received
in 2003 from the University of Bucharest was copied, without
proper reference notes.  Ponta said on June 19 that the only mistake in preparing
his thesis was that he didn’t put the source of the information
in the footnotes of the page, though they were included in the
work’s bibliography.  The ethics board said it “noted that the bibliographical
references were mainly mentioned at the end of the thesis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  