-- Romney and Obama in Statistical Tie in NY Times/CBS Poll
-- B y   D o n   F r e d e r i c k
-- 2012-07-19T12:24:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/romney-and-obama-in-statistical-tie-in-ny-times-cbs-poll.html
Voter disapproval of President
 Barack Obama ’s handling of the economy is hurting his re-
election prospects and improving the outlook for Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney , a  New York  Times/CBS News national poll
shows.  Romney is backed by 47 percent and Obama by 46 percent in
the survey, released yesterday. The numbers include voters who
said they leaned toward one of the candidates. Excluding those
voters, Romney led Obama, 45 percent to 43 percent.  The results, while within the poll’s margin of error of
plus or minus three percentage points, represent the first time
Romney has had an edge in the Times/CBS survey since he emerged
as the presumptive Republican nominee in early April.  Obama led by three percentage points in the Times/CBS poll
in March. In the April survey, the two were tied with 46 percent
each.  Since then, voter attitudes toward Obama’s economic record
have declined. In the latest survey, 55 percent said they
disapproved of his handling of the economy, while 39 percent
expressed approval. In April, 48 percent disapproved and 44
percent approved.  In the latest poll, 49 percent said Romney would do a
better job in dealing with the economy and unemployment, while
41 percent said Obama would. In April, 33 percent said they saw
improvement in the economy, compared with 24 percent now.  As for the president’s overall job performance, more people
disapprove (46 percent) than approve (44 percent) in this poll,
a reversal of the findings in April. Only about a third of those
surveyed view the two candidates favorably -- 36 percent for
Obama, 32 percent for Romney.  Obama has an advantage on the question of concern for
average Americans; 63 percent said the president does care,
while 55 percent said that of Romney. The president’s campaign
has been focusing on depicting Romney as out of touch with most
Americans.  On that point, 53 percent of those surveyed said they felt
that policies in a Romney administration would favor the rich,
while 21 percent said they felt that way about Obama
administration policies.  The telephone poll of 982 registered voters was conducted
July 11-16, the Times said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Frederick in  Washington  at 
 dfrederick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  