-- Rothschild Anoints Alexandre Heir as Family Cements Reign
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-07-19T21:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/rothschild-anoints-alexandre-heir-as-family-cements-reign.html
Alexandre de Rothschild said his
father always told him to “do what you want -- if you want to
play tennis, go ahead.” Alexandre, now 32, did not devote his
life to perfecting his serve, breeding horses, or the other
pursuits one might imagine are available to a scion of the
world’s biggest family-owned bank.  Instead, he took jobs at other financial firms before
joining the family business four years ago, becoming the seventh
generation of a banking dynasty that can be traced to the 18th
century.  Today, as the firm undergoes a generational shift to
younger bankers, he’s being groomed to run Rothschild and
succeed his 69-year-old father, David, within five years,
according to three people with direct knowledge of the plan.  “Whether it’s chairman, CEO, one, the other, both -- it
could take various forms and there’s no timing pressure,” said
Alexandre in his first interview. His father, David de Rothschild, isn’t worried about his readiness. “What I observe
of Alexandre’s attitude and behavior and what colleagues tell me
is very comforting,” he said. “But again, he’s not under
pressure to be more visible or add titles. Things are
progressing as they should.”  The comments by David and Alexandre are the most explicit
yet to spell out succession plans at Rothschild, a storied name
in finance that reported revenue of 1.14 billion euros ($1.42
billion) last year and ranks 10th among banks worldwide in
advising on deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
advised Nestle, the world’s biggest foodmaker, on its $11.9
billion takeover of Pfizer’s infant nutrition unit this year.  Presumed Ascension  Alexandre’s presumed ascension is part of his father’s
long-sought goal to establish a new corporate structure that
cements control of the firm within the Rothschild family. The
plan, approved by shareholders on June 8, converted Paris
Orléans, the holding company for Rothschild operations in
 France , the U.K., and elsewhere, into a limited partnership. The
family now has 56 percent of  voting rights , though its ownership
stake is 47 percent. About 38 percent of the group’s shares will
be listed on the Paris exchange.  Combining operations gives Rothschild a central balance
sheet where it can book fees from advising on mergers. That will
enable the creation of a global profit statement -- meaning less
infighting over fees and more incentive to work together,
according to Olivier Pecoux, co-chief executive officer of
Rothschild’s financial advisory unit alongside Nigel Higgins.  Balance of Power  The consolidation further shifts the balance of power to
Paris, where David and Alexandre are based, along with 150 of
Rothschild’s 900 investment bankers. “They became very
decentralized, and it’s a good thing this is happening,” said
 Niall Ferguson , a professor of history at Harvard, who wrote  The
House of Rothschild: The World’s Banker 1849-1999 . The
Rothschild business model, he said, “will look more and more
attractive as the age of global megabanks comes to an end.”  Like other banks, Rothschild has been rocked by the
slowdown in deals. About 70 percent of its revenue comes from
advising on takeovers, restructurings, and other transactions --
and that revenue is down about 30 percent since 2007. Rothschild
also oversees private equity investments. It doesn’t underwrite
debt or equity or lend to companies.  “The business is taking a lot of knocks from the economic
climate, and there’s nothing to suggest it will change soon,”
said Anis Bouayad, chairman of Strategie Alliance, which advises
companies and banks.  A Strong Team  Bouayad suggested Alexandre will need a strong team to
succeed. “The key for their diversification as a family firm
will be to bring the right people in alongside Alexandre,” he
said.  After graduating from the Ecole Supérieure du Commerce
Extérieur outside Paris, Alexandre worked at Bear Stearns as an
analyst in the mergers and acquisitions group for two years. He
spent the next two years at Argan Capital, a European private
equity firm that was spun off from Bank of America.  On joining Rothschild, Alexandre was charged with helping
to set up and build the bank’s private equity unit. Thanks in
part to his efforts, private equity revenue rose 37 percent last
year to 78.5 million euros, just under 7 percent of the firm’s
total.  His father also tapped him to play a role in the
restructuring, sending him to  Hong Kong  before he even joined
the firm to “get to know” long-time shareholder  Jardine
Matheson Holdings Ltd. (JM) , an investment firm, Alexandre said. He
then helped negotiate with Jardine to swap its shares for  Paris
Orleans SA (PAOR) ’s.  Recent Recruits  “In normal market conditions, someone at that age coming
in with a view to taking over would have been ludicrous,” said
 Jason Kennedy , CEO of Kennedy Group, a recruiting firm. “But
given the state of banking today, older doesn’t necessarily mean
wiser.”  In France, the bank has in recent years recruited a handful
of bankers in their 30s and 40s, often with ties to the French
political establishment. They include Gregoire Heuze, 39, who
handled this year’s $10.2 billion buyout of International Power
Plc by  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA. He was an adviser to former Prime Minister
Dominique de Villepin. Sebastian Proto, 34, once a director 
under former president  Nicolas Sarkozy ’s budget minister, may 
return to the bank, people familiar with the matter said.  Rebuilding Rothschild  David, born in the U.S. after his parents fled the Nazis,
has wanted to rebuild and protect the family firm ever since
then-President François Mitterrand nationalized the French arm
in 1982. David established a new French bank in the same year
and in 2004 took managerial control of the U.K. side of the
business after his cousin Evelyn de Rothschild retired. While
under the same corporate umbrella, the group largely remained a
collection of regional banks, sometimes leading to tension among
bankers.  One point of contention arose this year with the Nestle-
Pfizer deal. Rothschild’s Paris bankers, who secured the deal,
feel they should reap more of the fees than their U.S.
colleagues, according to a banker at the firm. Co-CEO Pecoux
denied any dispute and said none of the bankers have brought the
issue to his attention.  For now, Marc-Olivier Laurent, a 19-year veteran of the
bank who runs the private equity unit, is Alexandre’s boss. The
two helped raise a 600 million-euro fund in 2010 called Five
Arrows Principal Investments, after the five sons of Mayer
Amschel Rothschild, who sent them across  Europe  to set up
banking activities in the 18th century. Alexandre is the great-
great-great-great-grandson of Mayer Amschel Rothschild.  Retirement Plans  The bank’s private equity team typically buys minority
stakes in European companies worth as much as 500 million euros,
putting in 20 million to 60 million euros, and plans to raise
money for a new debt fund.  David is noncommittal on his own  retirement plan . “I’m in
good health and active at 69,” he said. “As soon as I feel I
am declining, I don’t want to fall into a trap of wandering the
halls where people are saying, ‘I wish he’d leave.’ Some days I
say I’ll retire in seven years, other days three. Suffice to
say, I won’t hang around longer than reasonable.”  Alexandre, who is married to Olivia Bordeaux-Groult and has
three sisters, is the only family member of the younger
generation with an operational role at the bank. “What I’d
really like is for another family member to join,” Alexandre
said. His cousin James works at a Washington D.C. private
investment and advisory firm.  His youth can be an asset. Using his friendship with John Elkann, 36, an heir to the Agnelli family of  Italy , Alexandre
got the family, which controls the Fiat carmaking empire, to
invest in Paris Orleans.  When talking about succession, Alexandre is careful to
state that his ascension would happen only with the backing of
the bank’s top managers.  “The last thing I want to do,” he said, “is impose
myself as a leader and CEO just because I carry the name.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  