-- S&P-Linked Note Sales Reach Record Even as Total Issuance Falls
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-07-19T17:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/s-p-linked-note-sales-reach-record-even-as-total-issuance-falls.html
Sales of structured notes tied to
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index have surged 48 percent to a
record this year even as overall issuance dropped.  Banks have sold $5.77 billion of the securities tied to the
benchmark, up from $3.89 billion from a year earlier, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Almost 60 percent of all notes
issued this month through July 13 are tied to the gauge, the
highest level since at least January 2010, Bloomberg data show.  Lower  interest rates  have made for less compelling features
on notes that promise a return of principal, so more investors
are buying securities that don’t make such guarantees, such as
certain products tied to equities, said Deryk Rhodes, vice
president of structured products trading at Incapital LLC in
 Boca Raton ,  Florida . Notes linked to interest rates, which
generally return principal, have plunged 36 percent this year,
while overall sales slumped 18 percent to $21.5 billion.  “In this rate environment, more people are turning to non-
principal protected structures,” Rhodes said in a telephone
interview.  The five-year swap rate, a benchmark for borrowing costs,
has averaged 1.1 percent this year, down from 2.2 percent over
the same period in 2011, Bloomberg data show. When rates
decline, the zero-coupon bonds used to create structured notes
become more expensive. That makes it hard to offer attractive
terms on principal-protected notes.  Well-Known Index  Linking a security to the  S&P 500  makes sense because
“you’re tying it to something investors already understand,”
said John Tessar, senior vice president and head of structured
products at JVB Financial Group LLC. “Half the battle of
selling a structured product is done if you use a very well-
known index.”  The  S&P 500 Index , a market capitalization-weighted measure
of 500 companies, climbed 12 percent in the first quarter and
has fallen 2.5 percent since then, Bloomberg data show.  Structured notes tied to the S&P 500 tend to be simpler
than others, with less complex formulas and payout scenarios,
making them easier to fit into  investment holdings , said Scott
Miller Jr., a managing partner at Blue Bell Wealth Management
LLC. The securities also have good protection against market
losses right now, he said.  “The buffers are really in the sweet spot in terms of
pricing,” Miller said.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  sold $1.11 billion of notes tied to
the gauge this year, the most of any issuer, followed by Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. at $986.2 million, Bloomberg data show.  Biggest Deal  The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank issued $118.5
million of 14-month notes on May 24, the largest offering tied
to the index this year, Bloomberg data show. The securities
yield three times any gains capped at 21 percent, with investors
at risk of losing their principal, according to a prospectus
filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Bank of
America distributed the notes for a 2 percent fee.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 