-- Home Sales to Factories Point to Second-Half Weakness: Economy
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o   a n d   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-07-19T20:38:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/sales-of-existing-u-s-homes-unexpectedly-decreased-in-june.html
Sales of existing U.S. homes
unexpectedly dropped and manufacturing in the Philadelphia
region contracted for a third month, showing economic weakness
is extending into the second half of the year.  Home  purchases  slid 5.4 percent in June to a 4.37 million
annual rate, an eight-month low, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today in Washington. The Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index was minus
12.9 in July after minus 16.6 the month before. Readings of less
than zero signal contraction.  The figures underscore Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
concerns that growth may be too feeble to reduce  unemployment 
stuck above 8 percent since February 2009. Other reports today
showed consumer confidence weakened, claims for  unemployment
benefits  rose and an index of leading economic indicators
declined more than forecast.  “We’ll have very slow growth,” said  Joshua Shapiro , chief
U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc. in  New York  and the
best forecaster of U.S. economic indicators in the two years
through May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. “The
excess supply of homes will weigh on housing for quite some
time. Manufacturing is starting to suffer a bit. The labor
market remains pretty soggy.”  Stocks rose amid better-than-estimated earnings. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.3 percent to a two-month
high of 1,376.51 at the close in New York. The yield on the 10-
year Treasury note was little changed at 1.51 percent.  U.K. Economy  In the U.K., retail sales last month rose less than
economists projected, reducing expectations Britain was able to
recover from recession in the second quarter. Purchases
including auto fuel gained 0.1 percent from May, the  Office for
National Statistics  said today in  London . The median forecast of
18 economists in a Bloomberg survey was for a 0.6 percent
increase.  The median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News called for a 4.62 million pace of existing home sales.
Estimates ranged from 4.42 million to 4.75 million.  Slower job growth, stricter lending standards and
competition from cheaper distressed properties may be impeding
the market even with  mortgage rates  at all-time lows. The drop
in home values since the last recession has also left many
owners owing more than their property is worth, limiting their
ability to relocate.  “Given that hiring has slowed down over the last few
months, I don’t think it’s surprising we’re seeing sales
soften,” said  Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s
Analytics Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “Buyers are
hesitant because they didn’t want to buy a home and see it
depreciate within a year.”  2005 Peak  Existing-home sales, which are tabulated when a contract
closes, have strengthened since reaching a low of 3.39 million
at an annual rate in July 2010. In the buildup to the subprime
lending collapse and recession, purchases reached a peak of 7.25
million in September 2005.  Economists forecast the Philadelphia manufacturing gauge
would improve to minus 8, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. The region covers eastern Pennsylvania,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  Manufacturers are seeing slowing demand for exports as the
 European debt crisis  and slowing growth in China and Brazil take
a toll on overseas demand. At the same time, elevated
unemployment is restraining  consumer spending , while a drought
in the Midwest threatens sales of  farm equipment  made by
companies such as Deere & Co.  Nationwide Manufacturing  Economists monitor the Philadelphia factory report and
other regional indexes for clues to the  Institute for Supply
Management ’s national figures on manufacturing. The ISM will
release its next report on Aug. 1. Manufacturing unexpectedly
shrank in June for the first time in three years, the group
said.  “The  U.S. economy  has continued to recover, but economic
activity appears to have decelerated somewhat during the first
half of this year,” Bernanke said in testimony to Congress this
week. The Fed is “prepared to take further action as
appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery,” he said.  The  Conference Board ’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months decreased 0.3 percent after a revised 0.4
percent increase in May, the New York-based group said today.
Economists projected the gauge would drop by 0.1 percent,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Labor Market  Limited wage gains and unemployment stuck above 8 percent
risk further slowing  consumer spending  and leaving the U.S. more
vulnerable to the global slowdown. Employers added 80,000 jobs
to payrolls last month, fewer than economists forecast, while
the jobless rate was unchanged at 8.2 percent. Retail sales
unexpectedly fell for a third month in June, Commerce Department
data showed this week.  “The economy in North America continues to be fragile as
consumer confidence lags and job growth remains anemic,” Vernon Nagel, chairman and chief executive of  Acuity Brands Inc. (AYI) , a
lighting fixture maker, said during a July 2 earnings call. “We
expect the macroeconomic environment for the balance of 2012 to
continue to be influenced by external concerns, including fiscal
and monetary policy in the U.S. and European debt crisis.”  More Americans than forecast filed  first-time claims  for
unemployment insurance payments last week, reflecting volatility
induced by the annual auto-plant retooling period.  Applications for jobless benefits increased by 34,000 to
386,000 in the week ended July 14, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists forecast 365,000 claims, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey. The volatility in the
numbers was due to a change in the timing of annual automobile
plant layoffs, a Labor Department official said as the data were
released.  Consumer Confidence  The slowdown in hiring is dimming  consumer confidence  as
the third quarter begins. The number of Americans who see the
economy getting worse was the largest in six months in July,
according to a Bloomberg survey of consumers.  The  share  of households viewing the U.S. as heading in the
wrong direction rose to 36 percent, the highest since January,
from 33 percent in June. The Bloomberg  monthly expectations 
gauge was minus 11, matching June as the lowest level since
January. The weekly Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to
minus 37.9 in the period ended July 15, the lowest in a month.  Two of the three components of the weekly consumer comfort
index deteriorated. A measure of  personal finances  declined to a
four-week low of 0.7 from 1.9, and an index of the  buying
climate  eased to minus 41.7 from minus 41.5. A measure of
Americans’ views of the state of the economy held at minus 72.8.  Political Divide  The Bloomberg consumer comfort readings underscore the U.S.
political divide over the fiscal cliff looming at year-end, when
tax cuts on wages,  capital gains , dividends and estates are
scheduled to lapse, today’s report showed. Democrats’ confidence
exceeded Republicans’ for a record 17th consecutive week.  The comfort index for Democrats rose to minus 23.6 last
week, while the gauge for Republican voters fell to minus 42,
the lowest since February. The difference between the two groups
is the widest on record. Among  independents , a key swing group
in this year’s presidential election, the measure dropped to
minus 48.7, the weakest this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net ;
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  