-- Sales of Previously Owned U.S. Homes Probably Climbed in June
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/sales-of-previously-owned-u-s-homes-probably-climbed-in-june.html
Sales of previously owned U.S. homes
probably rose in June, a report may show today, a sign the
recent pickup in demand will be sustained.  Purchases climbed 1.5 percent last month to a 4.62 million
annual rate, matching April as the fastest since January,
according to the median forecast of 76 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Jobless claims increased last week, another
report may show.  Mortgage rates  at all-time lows and a drop in prices have
made properties more affordable for Americans with access to
credit. At the same time, the recovery in the housing market
will take time as the economy is slow to create jobs and
lingering foreclosures put more homes on the market.  “We’re past the bottom and slowly recovering,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “We might have one more bout of price
weakness ahead when the foreclosure pipeline empties later in
the year, but investor demand is strong and we’ll absorb that.”  The report from the National Association of Realtors is due
at 10 a.m. in Washington. Bloomberg  survey  estimates ranged from
4.46 million to 4.75 million.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among those who
say the housing market is improving.  Growth in  construction  and “historically low mortgage
rates” are among “modest signs” of a housing recovery, even
as some buyers show concern about personal finances and the
broader economy and have difficulty meeting lending standards,
Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee this week.  2010 Low  Existing-home sales, which are tabulated when a contract
closes, have climbed since reaching a low of 3.39 million at an
annual rate in July 2010. In the buildup to the subprime lending
collapse and recession, purchases reached a peak of 7.25 million
in September 2005.  Borrowing costs remain attractive. The average  rate  on a
30-year, fixed mortgage declined to 3.56 percent last week, the
lowest in data going back to 1972, according to McLean,
Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  The pickup in residential real estate may reinforce
projections the industry will contribute more to economic growth
this year. Housing starts climbed to a 760,000 annual rate in
June, the fastest since October 2008, Commerce Department
figures showed yesterday.  Another report this week showed confidence among
homebuilders climbed in July by the most since September 2002.
An index of  builder sentiment  from the  National Association of
Home Builders /Wells Fargo increased by 6 points in July to 35.  Builder Shares  Signs the housing market is improving have boosted share
prices. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilding Index (S15HOME) ,
which includes D.R. Horton Inc. and PulteGroup Inc., has climbed
50 percent this year, outpacing a 9.2 percent gain in the
broader  S&P 500 Index .  At the same time, faster progress may prove difficult
without an acceleration in job growth. June concluded the worst
quarter for corporate hiring since the first three months of
2010, Labor Department figures showed.  Another report today may show jobless claims rebounded last
week after falling in the week ended July 7, which reflected the
volatility of applications during the annual auto-plant
retooling period. The Labor Department will issue the figures at
8:30 a.m. in Washington.  Foreclosures also are hindering the housing rebound.
Initial notices, the start of the process, jumped 6 percent in
the second quarter from a year earlier, the first annual
increase since 2009, according to RealtyTrac Inc., a real estate
data provider in  Irvine ,  California .  February Settlement  The rise may reflect February’s $25 billion settlement
among 49 state attorneys general and the five major mortgage
servicers for improper and fraudulent paperwork related to
foreclosures, according to a Bloomberg Government study.  Home prices  are stabilizing. The S&P/Case-Shiller  index  of
property values adjusted for seasonal variations rose 0.7
percent in April, the third straight gain.  “This quarter, we continued to see urgency in customers
making the buying decision, and rising prices helped create this
urgency,” Jonathan Jaffe, chief operating officer of
homebuilder  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , said on a June 27 earnings call.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  