-- Samsung Asks to Limit Apple References to Jobs at Trial
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/samsung-seeks-to-limit-apple-refering-to-steve-jobs-at-trial-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  asked a
federal judge to restrict references by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s lawyers  to
the company’s late founder Steve Jobs at a  jury trial  scheduled
for July 30 over mobile-device patents.  Harold McElhinny, a lawyer for Apple, told U.S. District
Judge Lucy Koh in  San Jose , California, yesterday that he plans
to show jurors two slides of Jobs during opening statements in
the case. The slides include one when Jobs announced the release
of the iPhone in 2007 -- an “announcement that went around the
world,” the lawyer said.  “I don’t want to see an opening statement where jurors see
15 images of Steve Jobs,” Charles K. Verhoeven, a Samsung
attorney, told Koh.  “Whether Mr. Jobs made a presentation is not relevant to
their case” and excessive use of his image is “prejudicial to
the jury,” Verhoeven said. “It shouldn’t be a popularity
contest.”  The dispute over the use Apple plans to make of its iconic
founder came at the conclusion of arguments and rulings over
pretrial issues. In the lawsuit, Suwon, South Korea-based
Samsung and Cupertino, California-based Apple, the world’s two
biggest makers of high-end phones, have accused each other of
copying designs and technology for mobile devices. The companies
are fighting patent battles on four continents to retain their
dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone market.  “I’m not doing a complete prohibition of  Steve Jobs , but
it needs to be relevant,” Koh said, adding that she wants to
see the images Apple wants to display before she issues a final
ruling.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  