-- Sany Heavy Said to Delay $2 Billion Hong Kong Stock Sale
-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-07-20T03:59:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/sany-heavy-said-to-delay-2-billion-stock-sale.html
Sany Heavy Industry Co. (600031) ,  China ’s
biggest machinery maker, postponed a $2 billion share sale in
Hong Kong after struggling to attract investors, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  The company, which had planned to start marketing shares
this month, may instead revive the offering next year, said the
people, who asked not to be identified as the information is
private. Investors were reluctant to subscribe for stock at
valuations acceptable to Sany Heavy, the people said.  With large  Chinese companies  delaying share sales in Hong
Kong, the average size of first-time offerings in the city has
fallen to a nine-year low, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. China Everbright Bank Co., People’s Insurance Company
(Group) of China and  Inner Mongolia Yitai Coal Co. (900948)  have reduced
or postponed offerings. Among the four, only Yitai Coal has
completed its sale.  Sany Heavy, based in Changsha city and already traded in
Shanghai, has lowered its sales forecast for excavators as
slowing economic growth and government property market curbs sap
demand, Vice Chairman Xiang Wenbo said in an interview on July
11. The company has completed preparations for the stock offer
and was waiting for the “right time” to start it, he said last
week, without providing a timetable for the offering.  Sany Heavy’s board secretary Xiao Youliang didn’t answer
calls to his mobile phone seeking comment on the deal’s timing.  Sales Decline  The company tried to raise as much as $3.3 billion in  Hong
Kong  in September last year by selling 1.34 billion shares. That
offering was postponed amid a stock market rout that left Sany
Heavy’s shares down 11 percent that month. Sany Heavy then
lowered its fundraising target to about $2 billion and planned
to sell stock equivalent to about 10 percent of its enlarged
share capital, people with knowledge of the matter said in May.  Unit sales of excavators may increase 10 percent this year,
slower than a previous target of 40 percent, Xiang said in the
interview last week. Sany will still outperform the industry,
which may see a fall in demand, he said.  “Given the low utilisation of existing construction
machinery fleet in addition to the measured pace of fiscal and
monetary easing, we believe sales recovery is still far out and
will be modest when it happens,” Song Yang, an analyst at
Credit Suisse AG, said in a note to clients yesterday.  Past Attempts  Companies have raised an average $132 million in first-time
offers in Hong Kong so far in 2012, the lowest since 2003 and
down from $300 million last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. With share sales totaling $5.4 billion, 2012 is on track
to be the slowest year for equity fundraising since 2009, the
data show.  Everbright Bank, which shelved a $6 billion Hong Kong
offering last August, cut its fundraising target to about $2
billion and planned to restart the deal this month, people with
knowledge of the matter said. The company has delayed the sale
again, the people said.  PICC, which had planned a $5 billion initial public
offering in Hong Kong and  Shanghai  for this month, delayed the
sale to September at the earliest, people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Yitai Coal, the biggest coal producer in the Chinese region
bordering Mongolia, raised $900 million in Hong Kong this month
after cutting its fundraising target from $1.5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  