-- HSBC Reminds Us Why Anger at Bankers Is the Norm
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-07-19T21:00:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/hsbc-reminds-us-why-anger-at-bankers-is-the-norm.html
You have to love the chutzpah at
HSBC Holdings Plc. At the very moment it’s asking the courts to
remove a ragged band of  Occupy Wall Street  protesters encamped
under its Hong Kong headquarters, the largest European bank is
also  reminding the world why many people are so angry at
bankers.  The subject of the anti- Wall Street  crusade isn’t much to
behold: A few dozen 20-somethings living in tents, lounging on
shabby sofas, strumming guitars and handing out pamphlets. Their
notoriety is all about location, location, location -- the plaza
beneath one of  Asia ’s most iconic buildings in the heart of  Hong
Kong (HSI) ’s financial district.  Turns out, HSBC is a more deserving target for the 99
percent than we knew. While it obsesses over a few
demonstrators, HSBC has been cited for helping terrorists, drug
cartels and other criminals launder money, according to a U.S.
Senate investigation. That includes, among others, transactions
involving North Korea, Myanmar and Sudan, an axis of evil
customers.  It wasn’t long ago that the U.S. was lecturing Asia about
another evil: crony capitalism. Officials in Washington harped
loud and long about how incestuous ties between finance and
government led to crashes in Indonesia,  Malaysia ,  South Korea 
and  Thailand . Each day brings fresh evidence that Asia’s
cronyism is quaint compared with the West’s.  Please Explain  The latest reminder is how  Stephen Green , HSBC’s former
leader and now U.K. trade minister, has some serious explaining
to do. Green’s boss,  David Cameron , sure didn’t need this as the
prime minister battles claims that he’s  Rupert Murdoch ’s poodle.  The Libor-fixing scandal that is ensnaring Barclays Plc
must fill Indonesia’s tycoons with envy. The worst that most of
them did 15 years ago in Jakarta was get preferential financing
from government-backed banks, and get breaks dealing with some
red tape. In London, traders were cooking the global interest-
rate system. Asians sure did think small.  As is often the case with hubris, the U.S. does it best. It
takes a lot to shock scandal-weary global investors hardened by
Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc. The corruption at the root of the
subprime crisis did just that.  Jon Corzine ’s sudden flameout
surprised Asians less than the deferential treatment that the
U.S. government still accords the former Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. co-chairman and U.S. senator.  “Government Sachs” conspiracy theories still abound in
Asia. In recent years, even finance ministers wondered why the
U.S. couldn’t seem to find a senior Treasury official who wasn’t
a Goldman alumnus. Same for the lack of punishment after
revelations that Goldman Sachs helped Greece fudge its way into
the euro.  Cronyism also figures in Jamie Dimon’s comeuppance at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. His success in lobbying against stronger
banking-industry regulation was predicated not just on
perceptions that he was America’s best banker, but also on his
cozy political ties.  This predicament brings the Occupy Wall Street and Tea
Party movements full circle. Last October, former Alaska
Governor Sarah Palin, a Tea Party favorite, made headlines in
Seoul when she decried the “growing collaboration between big
business, big finance, big government and big union bosses” in
America. Like her or not, who would say she’s wrong?  Contrast that with Asia’s treatment of its financial
industry. For all the concern about the Wild East,  Singapore  and
 Hong Kong  look clean compared with London and New York and are
cracking down on wrongdoing. In Hong Kong, two billionaire
property developers and the city’s former No. 2 official have
been charged with bribery-related offenses, the richest and most
senior figures indicted in 38 years. Who’s going to prison over
Wall Street’s crash? Where’s the accountability?  Western Decline  There are a couple of ways Asia might benefit from the
West’s corruption and decline. One is how Asian banks will
increasingly come into their own, underwriting local stock and
debt sales that in times past would have necessitated Western
bankers parachuting in. Another is China’s development.  The second-biggest economy is only now figuring out its
banking laws and regulations. Doing so in this climate makes it
easier for the conservatives to clamp down on speculative
trading and shadow banking. All of these foreign scandals may
lead to draconian safeguards in the short run, but ultimately a
more stable economy.  An underappreciated aspect of the downfall of  China ’s
Politburo bigwig Bo Xilai is how Western banking’s murky
practices -- inconsistent disclosure rules and kiss-and-don’t-
tell offshore tax jurisdictions -- enable China’s ruling elite
to enrich themselves, while obscuring this from the masses.
Media scrutiny is being directed at the family of Xi Jinping,
the man in line to be China’s next president. China has ample
Western examples of what not to do.  That’s the key lesson for Asia: a little less chutzpah, a
lot more accountability. It’s something the West could profit
from, too.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on California’s model  maternity-
leave program  and on  remodeling austerity  in the U.K.; Stephen
L. Carter on  lying politicians ;  Virginia Postrel  on  economic
segregation ;  Amity Shlaes  on how states can  remake the tax
system ;  Jonathan Weil  on the Barclays  Libor-rigging settlement ;
Robert Boxwell on one banker’s  exemplary testimony  to the U.K.
Parliament;  Nell Minow  on the U.S.’s budding shareholder revolt
over  excessive corporate pay .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  