-- Scalia Says He Had No ‘Falling-Out’ With Roberts on Health Care
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-07-19T03:14:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/scalia-says-he-had-no-falling-out-with-roberts-on-health-care.html
Justice  Antonin Scalia  said he
hasn’t had a “falling-out” with Chief Justice  John Roberts ,
dismissing reports of a rift over the U.S. Supreme Court ruling
that upheld President  Barack Obama ’s health-care law.  Roberts cast the deciding vote in the case, breaking with
his fellow Republican appointees, including Scalia. Days after
the June 28 ruling,  CBS News , citing unnamed people, said that
Roberts had switched sides during the court’s internal
deliberations and that his conservative colleagues felt
betrayed.  In an interview yesterday on  CNN ’s “Piers Morgan
Tonight,” Scalia said he remained on good terms with the chief
justice.  “No, I haven’t had a falling-out with Justice Roberts,”
said Scalia, a 1986 appointee of President  Ronald Reagan . Among
the justices, “there are clashes on legal questions but not
personally,” Scalia said.  The 5-4 ruling gave Obama an election-year triumph and
preserved the core of a law designed to expand insurance to at
least 30 million people. Roberts joined the court’s four
Democratic appointees in saying the law’s centerpiece, a
requirement that people either get insurance or pay a penalty,
was valid under Congress’s constitutional power to levy taxes.  Scalia said reports about the court’s internal
deliberations were inherently suspect.  ‘Not Reliable’  “You should not believe what you read about the court in
the newspapers because the information has either been made up
or given to the newspapers by somebody who is violating the
confidence, which means that person is not reliable,” he said.
Scalia said he was out of the country when reports about Roberts
were published.  Scalia also defended the court’s 2010 ruling that
corporations can spend unlimited sums on political campaigns,
reiterating his contention that political spending is
constitutionally protected speech. At the same time, he
underscored a qualification, saying Americans had a right to
know who is paying for advertisements.  “I think, as I think the framers thought, that the more
speech is better,” Scalia said. “Now you are entitled to know
where the speech is coming from -- information as to who
contributed what. That’s something else. But whether they can
speak is I think clear in the First Amendment.”  Republicans have opposed proposals that would broaden
disclosure requirements. This week, Senate Republicans twice
blocked legislation requiring nonprofit groups such as
Crossroads GPS and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce to reveal who is
paying for their political ads.  Scalia gave the interview in conjunction with the
publication of his new book, “Reading Law: The Interpretation
of Legal Texts,” co-written with Bryan A. Garner.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  