-- LSE Gains in U.S. Over-The-Counter Trading on Merger Speculation
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-07-19T20:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/lse-gains-in-u-s-over-the-counter-trading-on-merger-speculation.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
shares trading over the counter in the U.S. awoke from seven
days of inactivity to rise almost 10 percent on speculation the
company is in merger discussions.  The  stock , quoted in the U.S. on an off-exchange venue
operated by OTC Market Inc., climbed 9.8 percent to $16.75 on
volume of 20,600 shares. Prior to today, the equities hadn’t
traded since July 9. LSE’s London-listed  securities  closed up
2.1 percent to 1,023 pence earlier.  Magnus Bocker, the chief executive officer of  Singapore
Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , had a series of informal conversations with LSE
CEO Xavier Rolet in recent weeks, the Telegraph newspaper in
 London  reported, without saying where it got the information.
Victoria Brough, a spokeswoman for LSE, declined to comment.
Carolyn Lim and Joan Lew of  Singapore Exchange  couldn’t be
reached outside of normal business hours.  “Exchanges talk to each other all the time,” Sang Lee,
managing partner at Aite Group LLC in  Boston , said in a phone
interview. “I don’t know how much of this is reality or if it’s
just very preliminary in its discussions. Every year we seem to
run into a potential mega-deal. I would consider it a huge deal,
but it still seems very much in its initial stages, if at all.”  Both bourses had failed international mergers last year.
LSE scrapped its $3.4 billion bid for TMX Group Inc., owner of
the Toronto Stock Exchange, in June 2011 after failing to win
support from TMX shareholders. SGX’s $8.8 billion bid for ASX
Ltd. collapsed after Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan said in
April 2011 the deal wasn’t in the national interest.  Diversifying Business  Rolet has been diversifying the exchange’s business away
from traditional equities after losing market share. In
December, LSE agreed to buy the 50 percent of FTSE International
Ltd. it didn’t own from  Pearson Plc (PSON)  for 450 million pounds. In
March, LSE announced it would purchase a majority stake in
LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd.  The London and Singapore bourses announced an agreement
July 11 that would allow the largest and most actively traded
stocks from each market to trade in the other. London investors
will be able to trade 36 SGX-listed companies on LSE’s so-called
“International Board.” Singapore’s members will be able to
trade FTSE 100 securities on the Asian bourse’s GlobalQuote
Board, LSE said in statement that day.  The trading of SGX-listed shares on LSE will probably start
next quarter, while LSE-listed securities are expected to start
trading on SGX in the first half of 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in  Hong Kong  at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  