-- Seasonal Drought Outlook for July 19 to Oct. 31, 2012 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-07-19T18:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/seasonal-drought-outlook-for-july-19-to-oct-31-2012-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - Dryness and drought, exacerbated by
above-normal temperatures, have been increasing both in extent
and intensity across much of the central and northern U.S. Based
upon the July 10 U.S. Drought Monitor, nearly 61 percent of the
contiguous U.S. was in drought (D1-D4), the highest such value
for the U.S. Drought Monitor since its inception in 2000. The
drought and heat arrived at a critical time for Midwestern
agriculture, especially corn. The combination of heat and
dryness has severely reduced the quality and quantity of the
corn and soybean crop, with 38 percent of the corn and 30
percent of the soybeans rated as poor or very poor as of July 15
by NASS/USDA. Some states, such as  Kentucky ,  Missouri , and
 Indiana , had over 70 percent of their corn adversely rated.
Unfortunately, drought is expected to develop, persist, or
intensify across these areas, and temperatures are likely to
average above normal. Some widely-scattered relief may come in
the form of cold front passages or organized thunderstorm
clusters (MCSs), but widespread relief for much of the area is
not expected. In the Southeast, recent widespread thunderstorm
activity has slightly eased drought there, and the 3-month
outlook favors increased odds for above normal precipitation
along the central Gulf. This is due to the greater likelihood of
a tropical system affecting these areas and from sea-breeze
triggered thunderstorms. Therefore, some improvement is expected
across the Deep South, from coastal Texas eastward to  South
Carolina . Across the Southwest, the odds favor an active (wet)
southwest monsoon in both the 1- and 3-month precipitation
outlooks. As a result, improvement is anticipated across much of
 Arizona  and western New Mexico as the summer monsoon continues,
with some improvement in other parts of the region. Drought
persistence is the best bet across the remaining portions of the
Western U.S. since late summer and early fall are typically dry.
In  Hawaii , subnormal seasonal rainfall is expected which should
maintain drought on the leeward (west) sides while expanding it
toward the windward (east) sides. Lastly, an El Niño Watch
continues, with the forecaster consensus reflecting increased
chances of an El Niño beginning in July-September.  Discussion for the Seasonal Drought Outlook  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for August
2012 and the long lead forecast for August through October 2012,
various medium- and short-range forecasts and models such as the
6-10 day and 8-14 day forecasts, the most recent 384-hour GFS
total precipitation amounts, the soil moisture tools based on
the Constructed Analog on Soil (CAS) moisture, the Climate
Forecast System (CFS, versions 1 and 2), the four-month Palmer
drought termination and amelioration probabilities, climatology,
and initial conditions.  After receiving heavy to excessive rains (1 to 3 feet) from
Tropical Storms Beryl and Debby, drought was alleviated from
most of  Florida  and southern  Georgia  by late June. Since then,
rainfall totals have decreased to more typical amounts (1 to 3
inches) during the past few weeks. In the remainder of the
Southeast, June was mostly dry with near or slightly below
normal temperatures. Since July 1, however, widespread
thundershowers have dropped moderate to heavy rains from the
Carolinas to  Tennessee  and on the lower Mississippi Valley,
producing some drought relief. The extended-range forecasts (6-
10 day and 8-14 day) anticipate elevated odds of subnormal
median rainfall across the Southeast, although the 384-hour GFS
predicts decent rains for the mid-Atlantic and southern Atlantic
Coast. Though CPC’s updated August outlook calls for Equal
Chances (EC) of below-, near-, and above-median precipitation
across much of the Southeast (except for below normal odds for
 Arkansas  and western Tennessee), the seasonal outlook for
August-October, as well as the CFSv2 model, favors wetter-than-
median conditions over the central Gulf Coast region. In
addition, the odds for at least some improvement are elevated
closer to the coast which is often affected by sea-breeze
induced thunderstorms and the “wild card factor” - tropical
systems - where ASO are usually the peak months. In addition, it
is difficult to sustain a drought in an area where the normal
annual precipitation is 40 to 50 inches (e.g. Georgia,  Alabama ,
and Tennessee) and evenly distributed per month. Monthly and
seasonal temperature outlooks also favor above-normal
temperatures, especially in northern regions, with decreasing
odds as one heads south and east to the Gulf and Atlantic. In
short, drought should persist in the north and show some
improvement in the south. Forecast confidence for the Southeast
(including lower Mississippi and Tennessee Valleys) is moderate.  During the past 2 weeks, light rainfall (1-2 inches) in the
Northeast and mid-Atlantic, combined with triple-digit heat in
the later region, have caused some deterioration (D0 and D1) in
both areas. The Delmarva Peninsula remained in D2 as significant
precipitation continued to bypass this area in both the long and
short term. Although the short and medium-term models predict
some moderate to heavy rain amounts in the mid-Atlantic and
lower temperatures, there are no clear indications in the August
and ASO precipitation outlooks for dry or wet odds (equal
chances). But since most of the D0 and D1 have recently
developed in the Northeast and mid-Atlantic (short-term), a
brief period of wet weather could alleviate the accumulated
deficiencies (2 to 4 inches at 30- and 60-days) - hence the Some
Improvement label. Farther west, however, the deficits are
larger, and the August and ASO temperature outlooks favorably
tilt toward above-normal temperatures and subnormal
precipitation. Accordingly, development was added to the far
eastern Ohio Valley and central Appalachians. Forecast
confidence for the Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions is
moderate.  Since July 1, much of the Midwestern Corn Belt experienced
subnormal rainfall and abnormal warmth, further increasing the
drought and adversely impacting agriculture. 17-day deficits
ranged between 1.5 to 3 inches from the central Great Plains to
the eastern Ohio Valley, and temperatures averaged well above
normal. Triple-digit heat was common during the first week of
July. Current NLDAS soil moisture anomalies (Ensemble Mean LSM,
total column) reveal widespread moisture deficits on the order
of 5 to 8 inches. Current root-zone (top 1-meter) soil moisture
deficits range from 3 to 6 inches across this region. The CPC 6-
10 day, 8-14 day, August, and ASO Outlooks call for enhanced
chances of below-median rainfall and above-normal temperatures
for most of the region. An exception is the upper Midwest which
may see decent rains in the short-term. Unfortunately, the self-
perpetuation of regional drought conditions, with very dry soils
and very limited evapotranspiration, tends to inhibit widespread
development of or weaken existing thunderstorm complexes. It
would require a dramatic shift in the weather pattern to provide
significant relief to this drought, and most tools and models do
not forecast this. Accordingly, drought was maintained across
the Midwest, and expanded northward and eastward to encompass
parts of the Dakotas, upper Midwest, and extreme eastern Ohio
Valley. Forecast confidence for the Midwest (including Ohio
Valley) is moderate.  During the past 2 weeks in the Plains, surplus rainfall was
limited to the extreme southern Great Plains (southern and
southeastern  Texas ), central High Plains (eastern  Colorado ), and
portions of the northern Plains (central Dakotas and
southeastern  Montana ). During the last 60 days, most of the
Plains (except the Dakotas, parts of Colorado, and Texas
Panhandle) recorded subnormal precipitation, with deficits of 4
to 8 inches (locally even greater) accumulated from extreme
southern Texas northward into north-central  Kansas . For the
first 5-days of this outlook, an upper-air ridge will continue
to steer moisture and storms around its periphery, resulting in
little to no rainfall for the central and southern Plains.
Instead, the arc-shaped moisture corridor favors monsoonal
moisture heading northward through the southern and central
Rockies and northeastward across the Dakotas and upper Midwest.
The CPC extended-range precipitation forecast maintains
unfavorable odds for rainfall in the southern half of the Great
Plains. CPCs 30-day outlook favors a slight tilt in the odds for
subnormal precipitation in the central and northern Great
Plains, with equal chances elsewhere. CPCs 90-day precipitation
outlook has no odds either way (equal chances).
Climatologically, the northern and southern Plains reach their
normal wet time of the year during the late spring and early
summer, so by the fall their precipitation is waning.
Unfortunately, all indicators (short and medium-term, August,
and August-October) favor above normal temperatures. With much
of the Plains already in drought, above normal temperatures
expected into the fall, and a dry short-term and 30-day
forecast, the drought should persist, with some possible
development in the northern Plains. Forecast confidence for the
Plains is moderate.  In the Southwest and southern High Plains, the June-September
period is critical for producing monsoonal rains. In parts of
Arizona,  New Mexico , western Texas, and eastern Colorado, a
large majority of its normal annual precipitation occurs during
these 4 months. Therefore, a forecast for above normal monthly
and seasonal precipitation during this period may bring drought-
relieving rains. Since July 1, the southwest monsoon has been
generous across much of the Southwest, with most areas also
reporting surpluses out to 30-days, and some portions (most of
Arizona and southeast  California ) out to 60 and 90 days. CPCs
precipitation outlook suite for the extended-, monthly-, and
seasonal ranges (including the seasonal CFSv2 forecast) all
favor near- to above-median rainfall across this region. With
most tools and models in agreement, improvement is forecast for
Arizona and western New Mexico, with some improvement for the
remainder of the Southwest. Forecast confidence for the
Southwest is moderate to high.  Widespread moderate to severe drought covers the rest of the
western U.S. except for the Northwest. While the southwestern
monsoon can bring moisture throughout the Four Corners States,
southeastern California, and southern  Nevada , the summer is
climatologically dry across the Great Basin, the rest of
California, and the Northwest. In addition, persistent wet
weather in the Northwest during the past several months has
accumulated surpluses at 1 to 6 months out, making it difficult
for drought to develop anytime soon. CPCs extended range
forecasts strongly tilt toward subnormal precipitation, while
the monthly and seasonal outlooks favor slightly enhanced odds
of below-median precipitation over the Northwest, and equal
chances in the Great Basin and northern Rockies. Therefore the
seasonal drought forecast calls for the existing drought to
continue without any areas of improvement or new development.
Forecast confidence for the West is high.  The summer months are climatologically dry in Hawaii, but as the
fall commences rainfall normally increases. The latest Hawaiian
monthly and seasonal outlooks (from dynamical models) slightly
tilt toward subnormal rainfall. Therefore, drought is expected
to persist in existing areas (mainly leeward sides), and slowly
spread eastward (toward the windward sides), especially later in
the period. The exception is Kauai where D1 covers the eastern
portion, with drought development expected to push westward.
Forecast confidence for Hawaii is moderate to high.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  