-- SEC in Pact for Real-Time System on Order, Trade Data
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-07-20T14:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/sec-in-pact-for-real-time-system-on-order-trade-data.html
(Correcting third paragraph below Monitoring Markets
subhead to remove incorrect reference to Cayman Islands Stock
Exchange in story from July 19.)  The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission took a step toward improving its oversight of equity
and options markets, contracting for a system that collects
quote and trade data that is sold mainly to private users.  Regulators will be able to tap into real-time feeds of
orders, quotes and transactions that are generated by exchange
companies such as  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  and were,
until now, used primarily by banks and automated trading firms.
Tradeworx Inc., a high-frequency firm and technology vendor in
 Red Bank ,  New Jersey , will deliver a platform this year that can
compile the data under an SEC contract.  The initiative to enhance access to trading-related data is
separate from a much broader market oversight project known as
the consolidated audit trail that SEC commissioners voted to
mandate last week. That plan, years away from implementation,
will let regulators monitor an order’s “life cycle,” including
information circulated before it gets to an exchange or another
venue, or is canceled. That project, which will capture
information the morning after it occurs, will also identify the
firms making trading decisions.  The new system will give the SEC the “same speed, ease and
reliability of data collection and analysis that is available to
sophisticated market participants,” the commission wrote in its
 initial specifications report . “The solution shall allow SEC
staff to collect, store, aggregate, monitor, query, manipulate
and analyze equity and equity option data.”  The fee for the market-data system is $2.5 million for the
first year, Manoj Narang, CEO of Tradeworx, said in an e-mail.  Monitoring Markets  The new market-data project, for use by as many as 100
people at the agency, will allow the SEC to monitor trading and
hunt for abusive activity. The SEC may generate hundreds of
daily queries about trading activity, the regulator told vendors
in response to questions last year. It asked companies
submitting bids to ensure that data feeds from the  futures
markets  could be integrated into the system.  Securities Technology Monitor, a trade publication, first
reported the SEC’s selection of Tradeworx for the platform.  Under the program, real-time trade and so-called depth-of-
book data will be collected from all 13 U.S. stock exchanges and
the Options Price Reporting Authority, according to the SEC’s
initial specifications. Depth-of-book data refers to quotes and
orders at prices inferior to the best levels on each market and
includes the number of shares or contracts available at those
prices. Public quote and trade data would also be captured.  The SEC said it wanted the ability to analyze data at
intervals such as 1 thousandth of a second, 1 second or 1
minute. The SEC’s division of trading and markets and the
division of risk, strategy and financial innovation will use the
system, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 