-- Senators Split More on Who Gets Tax Cuts Than on Size
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-07-19T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/senators-split-more-on-who-gets-tax-cuts-than-on-size.html
Democrats and Republicans in the
 U.S. Senate  differ more on whose tax cuts should be extended
into 2013 than on how large the reduction should be.  The Democratic proposal, scheduled for a vote next week,
would cost the government about $272 billion in lost revenue
while the Republican plan would cost $301 billion, according to
the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation. The $29 billion
difference is about 1.2 percent of the government’s projected
receipts this year.  The parties differ in two major ways that reflect their
priorities. Republicans want to continue income tax cuts for
taxpayers at all levels, while Democrats want to let the George
W. Bush-era tax cuts lapse for income of individuals of more
than $200,000 and married couples exceeding $250,000.  Also, Democrats want to continue tax credits for college
tuition and low-income families that were created as part of the
2009 economic stimulus law and extended at the end of 2010.  To Republicans, the Democrats’ willingness to risk
expiration of all the tax cuts over what happens at the top of
the income scale is misguided.  “The American people deserve better than to have the
president and his allies threaten to melt down our economy for
what amounts to less than three days of federal spending,”
Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the top Republican on the Finance
Committee and author of the Republican plan, said in a
statement.  Republicans’ Reluctance  Democrats are emphasizing Republicans’ reluctance to extend
the tax credits for lower-income families while seeking tax cuts
for top earners. President  Barack Obama  has said Congress should
pass what it agrees on and fight about the rest after the Nov. 6
election.  “Nobody likes to raise taxes on anybody,” Senator  Charles Schumer , a  New York  Democrat, said today. “But we believe that
the highest-income people, it’s better to raise their taxes a
little bit and not slash things that help the middle class.”  The expiring tax cuts are part of $607 billion in automatic
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to begin taking effect
in January. The House plans to vote on Republicans’ plan the
week of July 30.  In its estimates, the Joint Committee on Taxation
considered a modified version of the Republican proposal that
would prevent the expansion of the alternative-minimum tax for
one year. The actual Republican plan, unlike the Democratic
alternative, would limit the AMT’s reach for two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  