-- Serb Central Bank to Boost Oversight as Criticism Hardens
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-19T12:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/serb-central-bank-to-boost-oversight-as-criticism-hardens.html
Serbia ’s central bank said it will
step up oversight of lenders after identifying expanding risks
in the second quarter following the collapse of Agrobanka AD
late last year.  To boost financial stability, “the Council of the Governor
supports the National Bank of Serbia’s initiative to
additionally intensify controls in all banks which have a high
level of credit risk and whose ownership structure” may impede
shareholders’ ability to oversee management, the five-member
council said in an e-mailed statement today from Belgrade.  The announcement comes amid stepped-up public criticism
over the central bank’s failure to prevent Agrobanka’s collapse
in December, which President Tomislav Nikolic’s Progressive
Party today called ’’the most serious financial scandal.’’ The
bank’s foreign shareholders said on July 16 that the lender’s
closure amounted to “the expropriation of property worth more
than 70 million euros” ($86 million).  Authorities fired Agrobanka’s management on Dec. 29 and
placed it in receivership after inspectors discovered its
capital didn’t match the risk it had assumed. Agrobanka, in
which the government held a 20 percent stake, had an unaudited
2011 loss of 29.7 billion dinars ($311.4 million) following a
full-year pretax profit of 1.18 billion dinars in 2010 and a
loss of 2.27 billion dinars at the end of September 2011. The
central bank revoked Agrobanka’s licence on May 26.  Expanding Risks  Risks in the banking industry are expanding “as a
consequence of the deteriorating situation in the economy and
Serbia’s public finances, as well as problems in banking sectors
in neighboring countries,” the council said.  While lenders in Serbia face no solvency risk, the
currency’s weakness and an expanding bad-loan portfolio could
require some banks to boost capital, the central bank said on
July 16, presenting the Financial Stability Report and results
of stress tests that showed at least seven and a maximum of nine
needing to add cash to meet requirements this year.  Serbia’s new ruling coalition of Progressives, the
Socialists of Prime Minister-Designate Ivica Dacic and the
United Regions of Serbia of Finance Minister-Designate Mladjan Dinkic has already signalled it wants to replace governor Dejan Soskic. Dacic has said his Cabinet will consider removing Soskic
if he acts in discord with the government, which will seek to
stimulate growth.  Milenko Dzeletovic, a senior Progressive Party official,
listed four central-bank failures in an op-ed published today in
the Belgrade-based newspaper  Politika , including Agrobanka,
above-target inflation in 2011, a weakening dinar and Soskic’s
salary amounting to 17 times the average wage.  Past Dismissals  Soskic vowed on July 16 not to resign, meaning he could be
removed only through constitutional procedures. Since the fall
of  Slobodan Milosevic  in 2000, two central bank governors have
been dismissed when new governments took office and changed
laws, while one resigned over a disagreement on expansionary
fiscal policies and the lack of necessary public-sector reforms.  The governor is elected to a six-year term after being
nominated by president and confirmed by Parliament. He can be
replaced if permanently incapacitated for health reasons,
sentenced and jailed for a crime, or if it’s established that
his “unprofessional” performance and “serious misconduct”
keeps the bank from “accomplishing of its primary objective,”
according to the central bank law, which sets  price stability  as
the primary goal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  