-- Shale Energy Splits French Government, May See Ban Lifted
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-07-19T22:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/shale-energy-divides-french-government-putting-ban-in-question.html
Shale gas, an energy game changer in
the U.S., is dividing the French government, raising the
possibility the country may lift a ban on its exploration.  “It’s not a banned subject,” Industry Minister  Arnaud Montebourg  said yesterday in Paris. “We must confront it. For
the moment, there is no government position.”  Montebourg, who is charged with reversing job losses and a
decline in French industrial production, was speaking at a
conference attended by top executives of some of the country’s
biggest companies, including energy explorer Total SA, a shale
gas producer in the U.S. whose permit was revoked in  France  by
the previous government.  Montebourg’s comments contradict those of Environment and
Energy Minister Delphine Batho, who told the French Senate
earlier this week that a year-old ban on hydraulic fracturing,
the technology known as fracking needed to extract natural gas
and oil from shale rock deep underground, would not be lifted
because of health and ecological risks.  France last year became the first country in the world to
ban fracking, which uses water, sand and chemicals to open
fissures in rocks and release gas and oil. Following passage of
the law in parliament, the previous government suspended the
rights of energy companies to explore for shale gas around Paris
and in southern France.  Oil companies  including  Total (FP) , the
nation’s largest, and Toreador Resources Corp. had been awarded
licenses for exploration.  U.S. Prices  The new government will keep the ban because the drilling
technique carries “considerable risks” and pollutes, Batho
told senators. The ban is “not open” for discussion.  “That’s her opinion,” Montebourg said in an interview
yesterday. “The debate will take place. It has consequences for
the environment that we must observe, measure, evaluate and
surmount. It’s a fundamental democratic choice for our
country.”  U.S. energy companies are developing vast reserves of
natural gas using fracking at a rate that’s filling up the
nation’s storage depots earlier than usual this year. The output
has sent gas prices down about 38 percent in the past year,
benefiting industries such as chemicals manufacturers.  As French factory closures such as by  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) 
grab headlines at home, French oil services provider Technip SA
is buying Shaw Group Inc.’s energy and chemicals business in the
U.S. to expand in the growing petrochemicals industry there.  Job Creation  “The U.S. has created 600,000 jobs in three years,” on
the shale boom, Patrick Pouyanne, head of refining and chemicals
at Total, said yesterday. “The petrochemicals industry has
announced the creation of four giant new complexes that will get
nearly $20 billion in investment. Within five years they’ll be
exporting petrochemical products to  Europe  at competitive
prices.”  Total explores and produces shale gas in the U.S. through
its partnership with  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  The French explorer
had also planned to look for shale at home and  Poland , the two
countries in Europe with the biggest potentially recoverable
reserves of shale gas, according to the  International Energy
Agency .  While Poland is speeding up shale gas exploration to lessen
its dependence on Russian imports, the previous French
government put on the brakes last year ahead of parliamentary
and presidential elections.  ‘Industrial Renewal’  The ban came after it awarded permits, most of them in 2010,
for unconventional oil and natural gas exploration. More than
half a dozen companies won the rights including Toreador
Resources, which merged with  ZaZa Energy Corporation LLC (ZAZA)  in
February, and Vermilion Energy Inc. in the Paris Basin and
Schuepbach Energy LLC and Total in southern France.  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) 
was in talks with Schuepbach on taking stakes in two permits.  Vermilion, based in Calgary, used hydraulic fracturing in
two existing vertical wells in the Paris Basin before stopping
the practice when the ban was imposed. Toreador, which billed
itself as the “most aggressive” explorer in France, had said
the region around Paris may have 100 billion barrels of oil and
has geology similar to the Bakken Shale in  North Dakota , where
explorers used fracking to release oil from underground rock.  “How can we not want to know if our land has these
resources? ” Total’s Pouyanne asked. “Our country may have
these resources. If it does, it would indisputably represent
industrial renewal. We must have confidence in the ability of
our country’s industry to develop these resources and respect
strict environmental rules.”  Opening Dialogue  French energy executives including Total Chief Executive
Officer Christophe de Margerie and GDF Suez’s  Gerard Mestrallet 
have criticized the French ban because it took effect before
anything was known about the potential in domestic shale.  The French law banning fracking allows for experiments into
the procedure overseen by a national commission that must report
back to the government annually. It’s not clear whether the new
government will install this commission.  The French ban came at a politically sensitive time when
lawmakers feared local protests against shale drilling would
hurt their chances for re-election. Anti-shale campaigners
including Greenpeace and activist Jose Bove criticized the
attribution of exploration permits without public consultation.  The new government has promised a national debate will
begin as early as September on energy including shale oil and
natural gas as well as the country’s dependence on nuclear power.  “We are very far from a major policy change on shale,”
Jean-Louis Schilansky, head of Paris-based Union Francaise des
Industries Petrolieres, or UFIP, which represents companies
including Total and Exxon Mobil Corp., said in an interview.
“For the moment, all we are asking for is dialogue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  