-- Sicily Swap Losses Burden Debt Amid Liquidity Crunch
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-07-19T11:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/sicily-swaps-losses-burden-debt-of-region-amid-liquidity-crunch.html
Sicily, Italy’s poorest region,
faces increasing losses on about 860 million euros ($1.1
billion) of derivatives that are weighing on its debt as the
local administration faces a liquidity crisis.  Contracts with six banks led by  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  have lost money for
the local government since 2008 and future losses will wipe out
earlier gains, Italy’s state auditor warned in a June 29  report. 
The regulator urged Sicily to “seek protection” against losses
on the contracts.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  approved 400 million
euros of funds for Sicily, which faced a liquidity shortage, a
government official who asked not to be identified said
yesterday. Monti July 17 warned that he had “serious concerns
about the possibility Sicily could default.” Sicily’s 5.3
billion euros of debt increased last year as the region hired
staff, and mark-to-market losses on its swaps may add to its
future obligations. Sicily joins governments from  Greece  to
Jefferson County,  Alabama , that bought derivatives that offered
the promise of cost savings while being stacked in the favor of
banks.  “It’s the usual problem of having contracts whose costs
and economic benefits aren’t clear,” said Umberto Cherubini, a
financial mathematics professor at the University of Bologna,
 Italy . “The issue is one of transparency.”  Maximize Savings  Six calls to the region’s finance chief, Gaetano Armao,
weren’t answered. Governor Raffaele Lombardo said July 17 he
plans to reassure Monti about the “sustainability” of the
region’s finances when they meet July 24. Officials at the state
auditor in Rome didn’t return calls seeking comment on the
matter.  Sicily last year began talks with its derivatives banks to
“simplify the contractual clauses and in an effort to maximize
savings” and may restructure the contracts, the region’s
finance department said in a Feb. 19 report. The local
government said then that it expected talks to be completed by
the end of the year, though it didn’t give details about the
contracts.  The region paid about 41.1 million euros on interest rate
swaps in 2011, eroding the local government’s gains since 2005
to about 15 million euros, state auditor data show. The so-
called mark-to-market on the swaps was about 359 million euros
in the banks’ favor as of April 30, according to the national
accountant.  Derivative Contracts  Sicily’s biggest derivatives counterparty is Nomura,
followed by Bank of America and Deutsche Bank, according to the
region’s filings published on its website. The banks provided
swaps on loans Sicily took out with state-controlled lender
Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA, which was its biggest creditor
along with the central government, according to year-end
figures. Sicily has borrowed about 2.5 billion euros from each.  The region also owes Dexia SA’s Italian unit about 147
million euros, the  European Investment Bank  about 347 million
euros and has outstanding bonds for 225 million euros, according
to the region’s filings. Sicily also has derivative contracts on
a so-called sinking fund that sets aside cash to repay the
bonds.  Officials for Nomura, Bank of America and Deutsche Bank
declined to comment. Officials for Bank Dexia, and the EIB
didn’t immediately return calls.  Sicily’s debt increased 13 percent last year and the ratio
of debt to gross domestic product also rose last year, according
to the state auditor. Debt per capita more than doubled in four
years to 1,050 euros in 2011 from 438 euros in 2007. Moody’s
Investors Service on July 16 downgraded the region’s rating two
levels to Baa2 from A3, matching Italy’s recent sovereign
downgrade.  Bond Spread  Italy’s 10-year bond yield spread with German bunds widened
to a six-month high of 495.2 basis points on July 16 and was at
478.8 basis points as of 1:31 p.m. in Milan.  The prime minister, who came to power in November, is
facing rising borrowing costs and is seeking to assure bond
investors that Italy’s debt of nearly 2 trillion euros is
sustainable. At the same time, he’s trying to impose rigor on
each of Italy’s 20 regions.  The Cabinet approved this month 2.7 billion euros of cuts
in funding to regional governments over the next two-and-a-half
years, including staff reductions of 10 percent. The measures
are part of Monti’s plan to reduce total government expenditures
by 26 billion euros in three years.  “We think there are substantial wastes and spending
excesses” in Sicily’s public accounts, Elisabetta Olivi, a
spokeswoman for Monti, said July 17 by telephone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Frye in  Rome  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  