-- Siemens Wins $3.56 Billion Deal for Turbines Off U.K.
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-07-19T15:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/siemens-to-supply-300-wind-turbines-off-u-k-to-dong.html
Siemens AG (SIE)  won an agreement to
supply 300 offshore  wind turbines  to Denmark’s state-owned
utility  Dong Energy  A/S in a deal that industry analysts said
may be worth as much as 2.9 billion euros ($3.56 billion).  Dong Energy will receive 300 of Siemens’ 6-megawatt
machines and plans to install the first turbines at its
Westermost Rough farm off the U.K. early next year, Carsten Krogsgaard Thomsen, acting chief executive officer at
Fredericia-based Dong, said today by phone from Copenhagen.  The agreement envisions turbine installations beginning in
2014 once financing and further investment decisions are in
place, making this a conditional order that doesn’t yet
translate into revenue for Siemens. The “framework accord”
shows developers preparing to meet targets set by the British
and German governments, which are targeting a 10-fold expansion
of sea-based wind farms.  Denmark ’s  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s biggest wind
turbine maker, is the only manufacturer with an unconditional
order in place this year.  “The deal is a vote of confidence for the 6-megawatt-
turbine Siemens has offered in the U.K.,” William Mackie, an
analyst at Berenberg Bank in London, said today.  “It should strengthen their position to expand in other
markets around the world using these projects in the U.K. and
northern  Europe  as a reference, and counterbalance some of the
pressures in the onshore wind market,” Mackie said by phone.  ‘Attractive Price’  The order for turbines to be installed in the U.K. from
2014 to 2017 could be worth 2.6 billion euros to 2.9 billion
euros based on previous contracts, Bloomberg New Energy Finance
wind analyst Fraser Johnston estimated.  “We believe we have got an attractive price which will
support our work on developing offshore wind in the U.K.,”
Dong’s Krogsgaard Thomsen said, declining to give a figure.
Siemens declined as well to specify terms of the agreement.  Dong plans to make an  investment decision  on the Westermost
Rough project this year, Krogsgaard Thomsen said. The park 8
kilometers (5 miles) off the Yorkshire coast in northern  England 
has about 200 megawatts in capacity.  Siemens and Dong work together on about 2,000 megawatts of
offshore wind projects including the 270-megawatt Lincs venture
and the 1-gigawatt London Array, according to Dong.  Siemens, which installed the most offshore turbines last
year, and Vestas, developing a 7-megawatt machine, dominate the
offshore wind market.  ‘Standard’ of Industry?  “We expect the 6-megawatt machines to become the standard
for the offshore wind sector,” Eva-Maria Baumann, a Siemens
spokeswoman, said today. She declined to comment on the
valuation of the deal.  Larger turbines capture more energy, requiring fewer
positions, saving costs on related components such as cables,
Krogsgaard Thomsen said. Siemens’ machines, which don’t have
gearboxes, require less maintenance, he said. Dong also has an
agreement with Vestas to test its  7-megawatt  turbine.  “Our target is to drive down the cost of offshore wind to
about 100 pounds ($157) per megawatt-hour” for projects with
final investment decisions in 2020, Krogsgaard Thomsen said.  Siemens will manufacture, supply and install the turbines.
The agreement includes performance warranties and Dong must pay
a fee if projects are cancelled, according to the statement.  Siemens shares rose 1.3 percent to 70.12 euros today in
German trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net  