-- Sigourney Weaver’s Faux-Hillary Rates More Votes: Review
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/sigourney-weaver-s-faux-hillary-rates-more-votes-review.html
Is “ Political Animals ” just too
Hillary?  USA (IACI) ’s political soap opera stars the terrific  Sigourney Weaver  as a Secretary of State with a philandering ex (ex-
husband, ex-president).  The Sunday debut earned mediocre ratings despite campaign-
style publicity and decent reviews. That’s a shame. The six-part
miniseries deserves a vote of confidence.  Created by Greg Berlanti (“Brothers and Sisters,”
“Dawson’s Creek”) and producer Laurence Mark (“Julie &
Julia”), it’s often silly, always melodramatic and saddled with
one performance that ranks among the hammiest on TV.  “Political Animals” is also a hoot, the television
equivalent of a beach read. Breezy, maybe, but never stupid.  Weaver plays Elaine Barrish, the Madame Secretary who, like
her real-life inspiration, once ran for the same Oval Office
that her womanizing husband inhabited.  She’s a feminist icon with a frosty image, and savvier than
any man in her orbit. That includes husband Bud Hammond (Ciaran
Hinds, the above-mentioned ham).  Man Woes  Her kindred spirit is younger journalist Susan Berg (Carla Gugino), who won a Pulitzer Prize covering Bud’s infidelities.
Elaine and Susan, despite their antagonism, seem to be bonding
over their man problems.  Perhaps  HBO (TWX) ’s two similarly-themed summer series -- the
tonier, more pretentious “ The Newsroom ” and Julia Louis- Dreyfus’s deadpan “ Veep ” -- curbed viewer appetite for
cocktails mixing politics and media.  Or maybe potential viewers were put off by the too-familiar
Clinton premise. Been there, seen that for two decades. As
Elaine tells Bud, “Please don’t give me that crap about how the
people would love me if they just knew me. It’s been 20 years,
OK? They know me.”  Those Billary parallels are too on-point for credible
dialogue and too roman-a-clef to make a case for originality.
To its credit, “Political Animals” wasted little time veering
from that hook, starting with Elaine’s divorce from Bud.  And troubled Barrish scion Thomas “T.J.” (Sebastian
Stan), openly gay, cocaine snorting and occasionally suicidal,
will continue his descent in this week’s episode, troubling his
high profile family in ways never imagined by a certain Chelsea.  Cookie Tossing  Nor does Douglas, the other Barrish son, played by James
Wolk, resemble any actual First Child we’ve known. He’s Mom’s
chief of staff, upright, loyal, a bit hot-headed and engaged to
a perfect, lovely young woman who discreetly disappears to
vomits those fancy dinners.  Even at its soapiest, “Political Animals” is well-played,
if not always well-penned. Wolk and Stan are appealing actors,
holding their own with the excellent Weaver.  Gugino still has time to prove herself. The dynamic between
the pol and the journalist is the centerpiece of the series, and
should be (but isn’t) as fair a fight as the Glenn Close/Rose
Byrne rivalry on “ Damages .”  Still, Gugino at least seems to inhabit the same universe
as her costars. Hinds, as the Bill stand-in, plays Bud like a
cross between J.R. Ewing and Foghorn Leghorn. His appeal to
Elaine and the American voter is unfathomable.  The writing doesn’t help. Says Bud: “I am the most popular
Democrat since Kennedy had his brains splattered across the
Dallas concrete.” No one could sell a phony, ugly line like
that.  Well, maybe  Ellen Burstyn  could. As Elaine’s protective
mother Margaret (think  Barbara Bush  with an ever-present
margarita), Burstyn has her share of groaners (her crude, sexual
put-down of the reporter wouldn’t be out of place on “Two and a
Half Men”). But Burstyn’s acid delivery is hard to resist.  “Political Animals” clearly loves its women (casting the
great  Vanessa Redgrave  in the July 29 episode, unavailable for
review, is inspired).  Like any good soap, the heroines of “Political Animals”
are true survivors. No veering from the Clintons there.  “Political Animals” airs Sunday on USA at 10 p.m.  New
York  time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  tech .  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 