-- Silicon Valley Surgeons Risk ‘Moral Authority’ for 200% Returns
-- B y   P e t e r   W a l d m a n
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/silicon-valley-surgeons-risk-moral-authority-for-200-returns.html
The anesthesiolgists’ ball in
December 2010 was already raging when Dr. Thomas Elardo and his
wife arrived. It was 11 p.m., and the Opera House in downtown
 Los Gatos ,  California , was packed with nurses and doctors
dancing to ’80s covers by The Microbes, an all-doctor band.
Elardo climbed the stairs to the mezzanine bar and was
immediately gladhanded by Bobby Sarnevesht, a local
entrepreneur, and orthopedist Samir Sharma, who pulled Elardo
aside.  Elardo had known Sharma for years, but the orthopedist had
never given him the time of day. That night was different -- he
had something to show Elardo. At the bar, Sharma flaunted a
$960,000 check, Elardo recalls. Sharma said it was for his work
as a surgeon and investor in an outpatient surgery  center  in Los
Gatos, operated by Sarnevesht.  “They were saying, ‘This is the kind of money you can
make. You’ve gotta come in!” recalls Elardo. “I was
speechless.”  Sharma and Sarnevesht worked the room that night. In the
days afterward, word of Sharma’s check raised eyebrows and
spurred debate among local physicians about the surgery center
chain operated by Bay Area Surgical Management LLC of Saratoga,
California, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its July 23 issue.  The facilities count some of the area’s best doctors as
partners, including Michael Dillingham, a longtime  San Francisco 
49ers orthopedist who now works with the  San Francisco Giants .
By rejecting the discounted contracts that participating in-
network providers sign with insurers, the surgery centers bill
insurance companies at their own out-of-network rates, which are
5 to 35 times as much as the in-network facilities charge, and
make a killing.  $53,000 Bunion  Knee arthroscopies that cost $3,000 in  Aetna Inc. (AET) ’s network
earn nearly $20,000 in facility fees at Bay Area’s surgery
centers, according to Aetna, the Hartford, Connecticut-based
health insurer. A bunion repair that costs $3,700 in-network got
almost $53,000 for Bay Area Surgical Group, one such center. A
disc surgery for lower-back pain, called a laminectomy, costs
about $6,000 in network yet reaps nearly $120,000 for Bay Area
Surgical.  The company pays profits to some 60 surgeon-partners at
rates of return that often exceed 200 percent a year. The
doctors who buy into the centers get the return on their
investments plus fees for performing surgeries. Patients pay
little -- the chain sometimes waives or reduces their co-pays --
and high-quality care keeps the chain’s reputation intact.  Declined Opportunities  “You feel like an idiot for not doing it,” says Nathaniel
Cohen, a Los Gatos orthopedist who attended the party. Both
Cohen and Elardo, who each declined opportunities to invest in
Bay Area Surgical Management facilities because of legal and
ethical concerns, own shares in competing centers that have
network contracts with insurers.  Founded by Sarnevesht and his mother, Julia Hashemieh, Bay
Area Surgical Management has marshaled decades of doctor rage
against insurance carriers into a profitable business.
Hashemieh, the boss of the operation, likens herself to Robin
Hood, pursuing justice in a medical community seething with
discontent. She takes from rich insurers, keeps 15 to 25 percent
of the profit, and gives the rest to surgeons -- whom she calls
“the poor slaves” of managed care. Her seven Silicon Valley
surgery centers, plus an eighth in Doral, Florida, collect about
$100 million a year in revenues, according to Sarnevesht.  “I always tell Bobby, America is good to us and we’re
going to pay them back,” says Hashemieh, a 55-year-old Iranian
immigrant.  “Health plans don’t pay on the basis of billed charges,
unless they determine that the billed charges are reasonable,”
Sarnevesht said in an e-mail.  Facility Fees  While insurance companies don’t pay all of the centers’
bills in full, they pay enough so that Hashemieh’s facilities
typically collect four to seven times what participating
providers receive for the same services, according to data cited
by  Cigna Corp. (CI)  and Aetna. The facility fees, which cover use of
space, drugs and surgical equipment, are charged in addition to
the surgical fees doctors receive.  Nationally, Aetna spent more than $500 million on out-of-
network surgeries in 2011, an increase of more than 20 percent
since 2009. The added cost helped drive up health-insurance
premiums 9 percent in 2011, according to the  Kaiser Family
Foundation . It contributed to a 4.4 percent rise in U.S. health-
care costs -- already the highest in the world at $2.6 trillion
a year.  ‘Exorbitant Prices’  While insurance companies are often pilloried for driving
up health-care costs as middlemen, in this case it’s doctors who
are “using deceptive tactics to exploit unsuspecting
patients,” says David Lansky, president of the  Pacific Business
Group on Health  in San Francisco, a coalition of corporate
health-insurance buyers. “These exorbitant prices are
ultimately taken out of everyone’s wages and contribute to the
continuing escalation of health-care premiums.”  Fed up, Aetna sued Hashemieh and partners in February,
claiming they gouge on rates, pay surgeons excessive
compensation for referrals and defraud health plans. The insurer
alleges that Bay Area’s facilities lured patients by routinely
waiving their 20 percent to 50 percent co-pay responsibility for
out-of-network care. Waiving co-pays wipes out patients’
incentive to use insurers’ discounted providers, undermining the
cost-saving purpose of managed care, Aetna argues. The legality
of waiving co-pays is in dispute, lawyers say, with
contradictory legal rulings in several states.  No Obligation  Sarnevesht says Bay Area Surgical has no obligation to
collect co-pays since it has no contract with the insurer.
“This is not a statement about our practices; it is a statement
about legal obligations,” he wrote in an e-mail Wednesday.  Aetna also filed a separate complaint with the Medical
Board of California that could shut the centers down and
jeopardize the surgeons’ licenses. The insurer’s executives say
they’re going after Hashemieh and a few providers in  Texas ,  New
York  and New Jersey to send a signal that out-of-network pricing
is out of control. “We intend to take a very hard line,” says
Carl King, Aetna’s head of national networks and contracting.  Hashemieh denies wrongdoing, insisting she is saving
America’s doctors from corporate consolidation by helping them
earn a respectable living. Sarnevesht says the chain’s surgeon-
partners earn such high rates of return because he and his
mother take out small management fees.  “It’s not rocket science,” he says. “We provide great
service and charge physicians less.”  Dividend Check  In Hashemieh’s telling, the check Sharma waved around at
that holiday party was for six months of dividends, and it
couldn’t have been for $960,000 because she never wrote a check
for that amount. (Recollections of the amount vary. Doctors who
saw the check place it in the range of $700,000 to $960,000.)  One thing is clear: Hashemieh’s centers have brought a lot
of doctors a lot of wealth. “I worry that situations like this
cause doctors to lose our moral authority,” says Cohen. He
shares an office with Ronald Joseph, an orthopedist who invested
$40,000 in Hashemieh’s Knowles Surgery Center. The two remain
friendly partners despite their differences over the centers.  “Doctors, like everybody else, want to make money,”
Joseph said. “If they see an investment that they think is
legal, what’s wrong with that? I had a chance to buy  Google (GOOG)  at
$100 a share. Why miss the boat?”  Family Partners  A statuesque grandma with long brown hair and a thick
Persian accent, Hashemieh landed in the U.S. in 1978 as a 21-
year-old single mom fleeing the revolution in  Iran . She earned a
master’s degree in economics and held a series of jobs: owning a
grocery store, running an all-you-can-eat buffet and selling
used cars and life insurance. She put her son to work at age 12,
carving roast beef in the family restaurant. He’s been at her
side ever since, acting as her partner in a string of real
estate deals and early Internet startups that sold computer
parts and compact discs.  Sarnevesht, 36, is a natural salesman whose charm has made
him equally loved and loathed in Silicon Valley. He has become
the face of the family surgery business, and it’s paid off:
Sarnevesht has a $4.3 million home on an old vineyard in the Los
Gatos hills.  In 2003, Hashemieh was short on cash for spec homes she was
building. Her sister and brother-in-law, a doctor, told her they
were pulling in $10,000 a pop for colonoscopies performed out-
of-network in a rented doctor’s office. Hashemieh was hooked.
She and her son tapped out their  credit cards  and mortgages,
raising about $400,000 from the tightknit Iranian-American
community to start their own surgery center. They hired Bobby’s
father, Nader, estranged from Hashemieh, to remodel a drafty
warehouse in Santa Clara, California.  Tenacious Entrepreneur  “I had my doubts Julia could pull this off,” says Edward
Tennant, who helped start Bay Area Surgical Management and is
now an executive at  HCA Holdings Inc. (HCA) , one of the nation’s
largest surgery-center operators. “But she’s the epitome of
tenacious.”  Hashemieh spent months camped out in government offices
obtaining permits, Tennant says. When state health inspectors
delayed the center’s final walk-through, she told them that
she’d shoot herself and leave a note blaming them for tying up
her assets, he says. Sarnevesht says his mother was kidding. She
got the permit.  In its first year, 2005, the Santa Clara center, named Bay
Area Surgical Group, did only 54 surgeries and lost more than
$400,000, according to state regulatory filings. “I was thrown
out of a hundred doctor’s offices” pitching his facility,
Sarnevesht says. “You learn a lot about life getting tossed on
the street.”  Free Building  Then he and his mother figured out how to recruit doctors.
In 2006, Sarnevesht approached several orthopedists with a
proposal to give them, free of charge, a medical office building
he was developing in Campbell, California, if they would do
surgeries at Bay Area Surgical Group, according to three doctors
who declined the offer.  “It seemed fishy,” said one of them, pediatric
orthopedist Jeffrey Kanel, who now co-owns a competing center.  Sarnevesht negotiated the $4 million sale of the Campbell
building in the summer of 2006, says Erik Hallgrimson, the real
estate agent for the seller. The deed shows the buyer was
Silicon Valley Center for Sports Medicine LLC, which belongs to
Sarnevesht and a group of doctors that includes two of the
busiest surgeons in the Valley, orthopedist Daniel Haber and
spine surgeon Jeffrey Coe. They moved their medical offices into
the building after Sarnevesht remodeled it, city records show.
Sarnevesht “was trying to create an opportunity for doctors to
participate in the ownership of the building,” Hallgrimson
says.  New Partners  Around the time of the Campbell building transaction, Haber
bought a 5 percent stake and Coe took a 3 percent interest in
Hashemieh’s Bay Area Surgical Group in  Santa Clara  and they
began bringing their patients there, according to Bay Area
Surgical Group accounting documents. Sarnevesht says Haber’s
involvement was “a godsend.” The facility went from break-even
in 2006 to nearly $9 million in profit in 2009, according to the
latest state regulatory filings. Its revenue-per-surgery doubled
every year, reaching $21,293 in 2009.  Haber says the office building arrangement was entirely
separate from his decision to invest in Bay Area Surgical and
has no bearing on where he sends patients. “I take my cases
where I think is ideal for my patients,” he said.  Sarnevesht also says the real estate deal was not related
to the surgery center and that the doctors who participated put
up money for the building’s down payment, as did he.  Word Spreads  Word of Hashemieh’s returns spread through local operating
rooms, making recruiting easier. The busiest doctors in the
Valley were offered 1 percent stakes in Bay Area Surgical Group
for $10,000. Each 1 percent returned $24,000 in annual
distributions in both 2007 and 2008, according to internal
documents. In 2009, profits tripled.  By 2009, the company’s surgeon-investors were a Who’s Who
of Silicon Valley doctors, including Dillingham, who operated on
 Joe Montana ’s elbow,  Steve Young ’s shoulder and  Jerry Rice ’s
knee during their Super Bowl years. Another Bay Area physician-
investor, Kenneth Akizuki, performed surgery on San Francisco
Giants catcher Buster Posey last year and helped reconstruct
Giants closer  Brian Wilson ’s pitching elbow. Another Hashemieh
surgeon, gynecologist Camran Nezhat, pioneered the use of
laparoscopy, a minimally invasive technique that has
revolutionized abdominal surgeries.  Plentiful Benefits  Elite doctors attract patients with generous health plans
that cover a high proportion of out-of-network bills. According
to investors, surgeons direct patients with hefty insurance
benefits to Hashemieh’s centers and others are steered away. One
former investor, orthopedist Terence Delaney, says his equity
was terminated by Hashemieh and Sarnevesht after he failed to
refer enough patients with plentiful out-of-network benefits.
Delaney is now an investor in competing surgery centers.  “Simple rule of thumb is Aetna, United, Cigna and Blues
with no daily max,” texted Sarnevesht to Delaney last year,
exhorting the surgeon to bring in more sought-after patients. In
addition to Aetna and Cigna, he was referring to  UnitedHealth
Group Inc. (UNH)  and Blue Cross & Blue Shield plans.  Hashemieh’s firm sued Delaney on July 10, claiming that he
breached a non-disclosure agreement “that has resulted in
lawsuits being filed against Bay Area over erroneous
information.”  In their single-story suburban headquarters in Saratoga,
Hashemieh and Sarnevesht inveigh against their adversaries while
defending their practices. Sarnevesht denies their centers
routinely waive co-pays -- a practice that their lawyers argue
in court briefs is perfectly legal anyway.  Charging In-Network  Still, callers to the chain’s SOAR Surgery Center are told
they’ll be billed as if Hashemieh’s centers are in-network. “We
will get paid out-of-network from your insurance company, but
whatever your benefits are for in-network coverage, that’s what
we will charge you,” explained Christa Luchetti, office manager
at the center, in response to a phone inquiry.  Ramon Deras, a patient of Coe’s, had lower back surgery in
2009 that resulted in a $148,600 bill for Anthem Blue Cross &
Blue Shield. Deras, 31, was supposed to pay a 20 percent co-pay,
but Coe assured him he wouldn’t be charged, says Deras, an
electrical-component salesman for  Rexel SA. (RXL)  “The doctor took
care of everything,” Deras says. Coe didn’t respond to a
request for comment. “There must have been a
misunderstanding,” Sarnevesht said in an e-mailed response.  Marketing Handout  In March 2010, Mark Reynolds, the president of Aetna’s
Northern California operations, was attending a meeting of
surgery center owners when one of them slipped him a Bay Area
marketing handout. For $10,000, surgeons could buy 1 percent
shares of National Ambulatory Surgery Center in Los Gatos,
entitling them to projected monthly payouts of $6,709 a share,
according to the document.  That comes to an annual return of 805 percent -- “pretty
outrageous,” says Laura Jackson, an Aetna in-house lawyer.
Hashemieh’s centers were already on Aetna’s radar for billing
high; the handout, by offering such an extraordinary rate of
return, “suggested there was this implicit notion that the
doctors would refer their insured cases to the centers” in
exchange for exorbitant profits, Jackson says.  The setup appeared to Jackson to violate state and federal
laws against physician kickbacks and self-referrals, which are
designed to ensure that doctors don’t make medical decisions
based on money.  Fair Value  The laws bar doctors from accepting any compensation,
including free or discounted office space, in exchange for
providing patient referrals. The statutes do allow physicians to
send their own patients to surgery centers they invest in,
provided the doctors pay “fair market value” for their shares
and only receive dividends in proportion to their ownership and
“commensurate” to the value of center’s services.  After a yearlong investigation, Aetna filed a complaint
with the California  medical board  in November accusing
Hashemieh’s “renegade centers” of charging “unconscionable”
fees, and subverting quality of care “as physicians seek
financial gain over patient safety.”  Aetna, the nation’s third-largest health insurer, cited the
case of Lena Pho, a 38-year-old woman who bled to death last
June at Hashemieh’s Forest Surgery Center after a plastic
surgeon perforated her liver in a liposuction procedure,
according to the Santa Clara County medical examiner’s report.  “It is highly likely” that Pho was referred for the
surgery “as part of an elaborate insurance gouging kick-back
scheme,” the complaint said. Sarnevesht says the charge is
ridiculous -- health plans don’t pay for liposuction.  Aetna’s Claims  Aetna pressed its claims in its lawsuit this February,
saying the company paid Hashemieh’s centers $23 million from
2008 through 2011 for procedures that would have cost just $3
million at in-network facilities. In June, UnitedHealth filed
suit against Hashemieh’s centers, accusing them of submitting
inflated and fraudulent bills and paying doctors to refer
patients.  The Bay Area Surgical partners countered in a separate suit
filed against Aetna on July 3 in which more than six dozen
doctors, led by the California Medical Association, accused the
insurer of illegally pressuring physicians and patients not to
use out-of-network facilities. All three cases are pending.  Hashemieh sees the clash with Aetna as an Old World feud
between herself and Mark Bertolini, the insurer’s chairman and
chief executive officer. She rattles off Bertolini’s pay from
memory ($10.6 million in 2011), how much Aetna spends on the
CEO’s personal use of corporate aircraft ($217,000 in 2011), and
how much its net  income  rose in 2011 from 2010, (12 percent, to
$2 billion, or $5.22 a share.)  “The only way his profit can grow 12 percent is by paying
doctors less than the  Roto Rooter (CHE)  man,” Hashemieh says.  ‘They’re Bloodsuckers’  She arrived in America with nothing, she says, and now
Bertolini wants to deny her what she’s earned. “They’re
bloodsuckers,” Hashemieh says. “I could not be more honored to
have come here penniless with a sick child, and now to be sued
by a Fortune 500 company for helping doctors earn a decent
living and not taking patients’ money. I’m not going to throw my
doctors into the ditch. I’ll fight for them to the last drop of
my blood.”  Hashemieh’s partners are just as loyal. Urologist Shahram
Gholami owns shares and does surgeries in two of her centers,
and is the landlord of one. “Julia and Bobby have put their
heart and soul into protecting doctors,” says Gholami, who
bought a $4.5 million home with an infinity pool in Monte
Sereno, California, in 2010. “We don’t do this for the money.”  Growing Prosperity  Ronald Joseph, the Los Gatos orthopedist, waited three
years before deciding to invest his $40,000 in Hashemieh’s
Knowles Surgery Center. He initially declined to join because
the profits seemed too good to be true. Finally, in December, he
couldn’t ignore the growing prosperity of the surgeons who
signed on.  “I’m sitting there saying, ‘If it’s a good deal, what am I
doing sitting on the sidelines?’” says Joseph, 70, who has
practiced medicine in Silicon Valley since 1981. With his
medical fees falling in recent years and his overhead costs
rising, Joseph needed extra income to shore up his retirement,
he says.  “Every doctor I spoke to said the quality of care in her
centers was high,” he says. “After three years, I felt if
something were wrong, the government would have stopped it. The
test of time said maybe it’s not illegal.”  120% Return  Since investing in Knowles, Joseph has earned $4,000 a
month in dividends for an annualized rate of return of 120
percent. Still, the Aetna suit, and the chance of civil action
against Hashemieh’s partners, spooked him.  “I don’t need the risk,” Joseph said in March, explaining
that he was planning on dismantling his partnership with
Hashemieh and Sarnevesht. As of mid-July, he hadn’t.  The cases are Aetna Life Insurance Co. v. Bay Area Surgical
Management LLC, 112CV217943, Santa Clara County Superior Court;
United HealthCare Services Inc. v. Bay Area Surgical Management
LLC, 112CV226686, Santa Clara County Superior Court; and Los
Angeles County Medical Association v. Aetna Health of California
Inc., BC487670, Los Angeles County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Peter Waldman in San Francisco at 
 pwaldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gary Putka at   gputka@bloomberg.net . 