-- Singapore Exchange Tightens Mainboard Listing Standard
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2012-07-19T02:21:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/singapore-exchange-tightens-mainboard-listing-standard.html
Singapore  Exchange Ltd., operator of
 Southeast Asia ’s biggest bourse, will introduce new listing
rules next month that raise the bar for companies seeking to
list shares on the mainboard as the city seeks to boost its
reputation as a financial hub.  Companies seeking to list on the mainboard must have a
minimum market capitalization of S$150 million ($119 million)
and have been profitable in the previous financial year, the
bourse operator said in a statement. The exchange currently
requires a minimum market capitalization of S$80 million for
mainboard listings.  “The enhanced admission standards will increase
Singapore’s attractiveness for companies and investors, further
strengthening its position as an international financial
center,” Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  said in a
statement.  Regulators around the world have stepped up oversight of
 capital markets  after coming under scrutiny during the global
financial crisis in 2008. The Monetary Authority of Singapore
set up a 13-member council in 2010 with a goal to boost
corporate governance standards and investor confidence.  The bourse will allow mainboard listing of companies that
have had only operating revenue in the previous financial year
to list on the mainboard as long as their market capitalization
is not less than S$300 million, according to the statement.
Those with a minimum consolidated pre-tax profit of S$30 million
and an operating track record of at least three years can also
list on the mainboard.  Retail Investors  The new rules, which would also require a bigger proportion
of initial public offerings allocated to retail investors and a
minimum price of 50 Singapore cents a share, will take effect on
Aug. 10,  Singapore Exchange  said.  “Retail investors will reap significant benefits in terms
of having wider access to new IPOs,” said David Gerald,
president of the Securities Investment Association of Singapore.
“At the same time, they can be better assured that companies
listed on SGX are of good standing and quality. Investors can
look forward to a more attractive market that has a higher level
of corporate governance overall.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  