-- TSMC Revenue Outlook Beats Estimates, Sales to Drop Next Quarter
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-07-19T07:43:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/tsmc-posts-highest-profit-in-six-quarters-on-smartphones-1-.html
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing
Co. (2330) , the world’s largest contract manufacturer of chips, said
sales may rise to a record this quarter, beating estimates,
before dropping amid growing inventories and a worsening
economic outlook.  Revenue in the three months ending Sept. 30 may be NT$136
billion ($4.5 billion) to NT$138 billion, the Hsinchu, Taiwan-
based company said today, compared with the NT$134.8 billion
average of 22 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Second-
quarter operating income rose 23 percent to NT$46.7 billion,
beating the NT$45 billion average of 15 estimates.  TSMC projects sales of leading 28-nanometer production
technology to double this quarter on demand for chips used in
mobile devices from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Samsung Electronics Co. and
Amazon.com Inc. A worsening global economy and rising
inventories will crimp the company’s sales in the final three
months of the year and the first quarter of 2013, it said.  “We are now seeing a dip in our revenue in the fourth
quarter,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Morris Chang 
told investors today in Taipei. “The outlook certainly has
deteriorated within the last three to six months” in terms of
the global economy, he said.  Second-quarter net income rose to NT$41.8 billion, missing
the NT$42.2 billion average of 19 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. The earnings result included a NT$2.68 billion charge
for its 5.6 percent stake in Shanghai-based  Semiconductor
Manufacturing International Corp. (981) , TSMC said.  Revenue Increase  Consolidated revenue, reported earlier, rose 16 percent
from a year earlier to NT$128.1 billion, beating the NT$127.2
billion average of analyst estimates and surpassing the
company’s own forecast of NT$126 billion to NT$128 billion.  Inventories climbed to three days above seasonality at the
end of June and will widen to 12 days by the end of the current
quarter, Chang said today. A cut in orders will help that figure
narrow to eight days above normal seasonal levels in the fourth
quarter, he said.  “We continue to expect demand headwinds and inventory
correction to lead to a weaker outlook for the foundry sector,”
Michael Chou and  Kevin Wang , who rate the stock buy at Deutsche
Bank AG in Taipei, wrote in a July 10 report. “However, we
anticipate 28nm to enable TSMC to deliver relatively resilient
earnings.”  One nanometer, equal to one billionth of a meter, measures
the size of connections within a chip. A smaller number implies
more advanced technology, allowing semiconductors to be smaller
and more powerful.  Qualcomm, Intel  TSMC  climbed  3.6 percent to NT$77.50 at the close of trade
in Taipei, before the earnings were announced. The stock has
gained 2.2 percent this year, outpacing a 1.1 percent increase
in  Taiwan ’s benchmark Taiex index, of which it’s the largest
component.  Client Qualcomm Inc., the world’s biggest designer of
mobile-phone chips, expects a strong December quarter after its
second-quarter sales and third-quarter outlook lagged behind
estimates because of a shortage in supply of leading-edge
manufacturing capacity, CEO  Paul Jacobs  said yesterday.  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest semiconductor maker, whose
chips are used in about 80 percent of computers, cut its full-
year revenue forecast by about half on July 17, saying sales may
climb 3 percent to 5 percent, compared with a previous forecast
of a high-single-digit gain.  Dedicated Fabs  TSMC, whose  clients  also include Nvidia Corp., Advanced
Micro Devices Inc. and Broadcom Corp., may consider putting
aside some of its own factories for any client that may grow big
enough to require specific capacity.  “It makes complete sense to dedicate a whole fab, or two
whole fabs, in fact, to just one customer,” Chang said today.
He didn’t name any clients it may offer a whole factory to or
say whether it has immediate plans to do so.  TSMC will spend a record $8 billion to $8.5 billion this
year, it said in April. It’s still in “active negotiations”
with Veldhoven, Netherlands-based  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  to join Intel
in taking a stake in the equipment maker, Chang said. Intel
agreed last week to invest as much as $4.1 billion in ASML to
gain a stake and accelerate development of new chipmaking
technology. Samsung is also in talks, ASML said.  Higher costs for its more advanced technologies will prompt
TSMC to narrow its gross margin, a key measure of profitability
that tracks sales less the cost of goods sold, to 46 percent to
48 percent this quarter from 48.6 percent in the prior quarter,
it said. The average of 18 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey is for a gross margin of 48.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  