-- South Africa Unexpectedly Cuts Benchmark Lending Rate
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-07-19T14:05:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/south-africa-unexpectedly-cuts-benchmark-lending-rate.html
South Africa’s central bank
unexpectedly cut its benchmark  interest rate  by half a
percentage point to help bolster the economy as inflation stayed
within the bank’s target range.  The repurchase rate was lowered to 5 percent, Governor Gill Marcus told reporters today in  Pretoria , the capital. Only two
of the 18 economists surveyed by Bloomberg predicted a
reduction, with the rest expecting the rate will stay unchanged.
The decision was unanimous after a “particularly robust”
discussion, she said.  Policy makers cut the repurchase rate for the first time
since November 2010, joining central banks in India, Brazil,
China and  Europe  in reducing borrowing costs this year to
protect their economies from slower global growth. Marcus was
provided the room to ease monetary policy after  inflation  eased
to a 10-month low in June, slowing further from the top end of
the 3 percent to 6 percent target range.  “They got so bearish so fast on the spill over of the euro
zone economy,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
Plc in London, said in a telephone interview after the decision.
“They have clearly been surprised by the downside of inflation
and with the external growth worries, that has opened the door
for cuts now.”  Slower Growth  Inflation slowed to 5.5 percent in June from 5.7 percent a
month earlier, the statistics office said yesterday. At the same
time, export demand is coming under pressure amid a debt crisis
in Europe, undermining growth in Africa’s biggest  economy . The
government has cut its forecast for economic growth this year to
2.7 percent, the slowest pace since a recession in 2009. The
 Reserve Bank  also lowered its forecast to 2.7 percent for this
year.  “The MPC expects inflation to remain in the target range
over the forecast period and sees the risks to the inflation
forecast to be relatively balanced,” Marcus said. “In the
light of these developments the MPC views the prevailing
conditions to be appropriate for further monetary policy
accommodation in the economy that will not undermine the
inflation outlook.”  Investors began increasing bets two months ago that Marcus
would cut rates, driving down yields on forward-rate agreements.
The yields on the contracts due in December dropped 37 basis
points, or 0.37 percentage point, in the past month to 4.85
percent after today’s announcement.  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ,  First National Bank (FNBB) ,  Absa Group
Ltd. (ASA)  and  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  cut their prime lending rates to 8.5
percent.  Outlook Threatened  “Despite some moderate employment creation over the past
year, the economic growth outlook appears to be threatened by
global developments and deteriorating business and  consumer
confidence ,” Marcus said.  Inflation peaked at an average 6.1 percent in the first
quarter and will average 5.6 percent this year, less than the
previous estimate of 6 percent, Marcus said. Consumer price
increases will average 5.1 percent next year, down from a
previous forecast of 5.5 percent, she said.  A weaker rand this year is adding to pressure on inflation.
The rand has slumped 8.7 percent against the dollar since the
beginning of March, the second-biggest drop of 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after  Brazil ’s real.  The rand weakened 0.4 percent to 8.1959 per dollar at 3:50
p.m. in Johannesburg. The yield on the rand bond due in 2015
dropped 26 basis points to a record low of 5.51 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  