-- Southwest Quarterly Profit Climbs as Fuel Prices Decline
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-07-19T21:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/southwest-quarterly-profit-climbs-as-fuel-prices-decline.html
Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , the biggest
low-fare carrier, said second-quarter profit rose 42 percent as
record revenue muted higher spending for fuel.  The profit of $228 million, or 30 cents a share, increased
from $161 million, or 21 cents, a year earlier, the Dallas-based
airline said in a statement today. Adjusted earnings of 36 cents
a share, excluding $45 million in one-time items, exceeded the
33-cent average of analysts’  estimates .  While passenger traffic was unchanged, Southwest’s average
fare rose 4.9 percent, easing the effects of a 3.3 percent
increase in jet fuel costs. In addition to sales, the company
set records for net income, operating income and revenue from
each seat flown a mile.  “The goal this year is clearly to have record earnings,”
Chief Executive Officer  Gary Kelly  said in an interview. “This
at least puts us in a position where that is an achievable
target.”  Revenue climbed 4.7 percent to $4.62 billion, beating the
average  analysts’ estimate  of $4.59 billion.  Kelly reiterated that Southwest plans no fleet expansion
through at least 2013 as it works to attain a 15 percent return
on invested capital. The airline, which bought AirTran Holdings
Inc. in May 2011, earlier deferred deliveries of 30 jets by
about four years to help curb growth and reduce  capital spending 
from this year to 2014 by $1 billion.  Fragile Economy  “The fundamentals are very strong and getting a lot
stronger,” said  Michael Derchin , an analyst with CRT Capital
Group LLC. “They’ve got the strongest balance sheet in the
industry and their cash exceeds their debt.”  Southwest fell 2.9 percent to $9.15 at 4:15 p.m. in  New
York . The shares have gained 6.9 percent this year.  The airline is monitoring the “fragile economic
environment,” although it has not yet seen a decline in demand,
Kelly said.  “It doesn’t feel to me like our revenue trends are
strengthening in the third quarter,” he said. “I wouldn’t be
surprised if growth didn’t slow a little bit. Business travel
was very solid in the second quarter.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  