-- Spain Insists $15 Billion Aid for Regions Won’t Swell Debt
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s   a n d   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-07-20T13:28:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/spain-insists-15-billion-aid-need-for-regions-won-t-swell-debt.html
Spain ’s plan to offer cash-strapped
regional administrations emergency loans leaves the Treasury
with 12 billion euros ($15 billion) of additional funding needs
that the government says won’t affect its borrowing plans.  The central government will tap the lottery for part of the
18 billion-euro fund for regions, leaving 12 billion euros for
the Treasury to finance. While Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
said yesterday that the plan won’t affect the nation’s borrowing
program, economists including Jose Carlos Diez at Intermoney SA
say it will be hard to sustain without selling more debt.  “Where will it come from?” said Diez, chief economist at
the Madrid-based brokerage, which is Spain’s biggest bond
trader. “In the end it has to add to their financing needs.”  Spain’s Cabinet approved the creation of the fund on July
13 to help regions that have lost access to markets meet debt
redemptions and finance deficits. The  decree  states that the
facility will be funded with public debt and the Treasury’s
borrowing program will “incorporate the amounts” needed.  Valencia, the second-most indebted region, said today it
was preparing to tap the fund as it faces a liquidity squeeze.  Other Options  “Unless they sell public companies, I don’t see any other
way to do it without tapping the bond markets,” said  Rafael
Pampillon , an economics professor at  Madrid ’s Instituto Empresa
business school. “There are no other options.”  De Guindos is already pushing for the government to
privatize publicly-owned real estate, and a July 11 austerity
plan included measures to sell off air, rail and maritime
transport services.  Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond yield rose yesterday above
the 7 percent level that prompted sovereign bailouts in euro
nations including  Greece , and traded at 7.24 percent as of 3:20
p.m. in Madrid. Debt maturing in 2020 issued by Catalonia, the
biggest regional economy, yielded 13.24 percent, compared with
6.95 percent on similar notes issued by the central government.  De Guindos yesterday said the region’s funding mechanism
won’t add more stress to the market, at a time when foreign
investors are reducing their holdings of Spanish debt.  “The mechanism will be financed without the need to modify
the Treasury’s calendar for debt sales so the creation of this
fund won’t mean additional stress on the market,” de Guindos
said in Parliament.  Treasury’s Cash  An official at the ministry, who asked not to be named in
line with policy, said the borrowing program hadn’t changed and
the 12 billion euros would come from the Treasury’s cash. She
declined to comment further.  “They’ve probably got a war chest,” said Edward Hugh, an
independent economist based in Barcelona who publishes research
for Roubini Global Economics. “It’s a lot of money but it’s not
the end of the world.”  The Treasury’s cash account with the Bank of Spain stood at
44 billion euros in April, according to data on the debt
agency’s website.  The Economy Ministry said yesterday that the medium- and
long-term issuance needs for this year were 85.9 billion euros,
unchanged since the regional bailout was approved. The agency
has already sold 69 percent of that amount, the ministry said.  Another factor which might affect debt-sale plans is an
extension the European Union gave Spain on its budget-deficit
targets, softening the goal for this year to 6.3 percent of
gross domestic product from 5.3 percent targeted in the budget.
The wider deficit points to gross bond issuance of 96 billion
euros this year, instead of 85.9 billion euros, said  Gianluca Salford , a fixed income analyst at JPMorgan Chase in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  