-- Spain Struggles to Sell Debt as French Yields Fall to Record
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-07-19T14:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/spain-struggles-to-sell-debt-as-french-yields-fall-to-record.html
Spain ’s five-year borrowing costs
surged as the government pushed through spending cuts in the
face of public protests, while  France  paid record-low yields of
less than 1 percent to sell securities of the same maturity.  Spanish five-year notes yielded an average 6.459 percent at
auction today, up from 6.072 percent a month ago. French yields
fell to 0.86 percent, almost half last month’s level. Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy , who didn’t turn up to defend his cuts in
parliament, secured passage of the plan with 180 votes,
indicating none of the opposition in the 350-seat chamber
supported it.  The premier, who asked other euro nations for as much as
100 billion euros ($123 billion) last month to bail out banks,
is fighting to maintain access to  capital markets . Lawmakers in
 Germany , where borrowing costs have turned negative as investors
opt for the safest assets, are set to vote on the Spanish
bailout agreement today.  “The danger to the financial sector in Spain can turn into
danger for the financial stability of the euro area,” German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  told lawmakers in Berlin
today as they prepared to vote on aid to Spain.  10-Year Yields  Spain’s 10-year benchmark bond yields surged through the 7
percent threshold that prompted sovereign bailouts in  Greece ,
Ireland and  Portugal . The debt traded at 7.018 percent at 3:22
p.m. in Madrid. While the Treasury sold 2.98 billion euros of
notes, in line with its maximum target, demand for two-year
securities was 1.9 times the amount sold, compared with 4.26
times at a sale last month.  “Nothing looks good,”  Ioannis Sokos , a fixed-income
strategist at  BNP Paribas (BNP)  in  London , said in a telephone
interview. “Spanish banks have been much less aggressive in
buying domestic bonds” as the effect of 1 trillion euros of
unlimited three-year loans by the European Central Bank fades.  Spanish banks have been propping up the domestic  bond
market  and increased their holdings in the first quarter as they
channeled ECB funds into government debt. They scaled back in
April and May, while non-resident investors continued to reduce
their holdings, Treasury data show. The ECB has also resisted
calls from Rajoy to lend money to Spain.  Italian Approval  The Italian Parliament today gave final approval to the
European Stability Mechanism, the euro-region’s permanent
bailout fund. The emergency lender is still being held up by a
legal challenge in Germany’s constitutional court.  Rajoy said yesterday the 65 billion euros of spending cuts
and tax increases announced last week are necessary to prove to
investors that Spain is a credible borrower. The measures
include an increase in  sales tax , reductions in jobless benefits
and a pay cut for public workers.  “There’s no money in the public coffers,” Budget Minister
Cristobal Montoro told lawmakers today as Treasury officials
prepared to offer government debt to investors at the auction.
“There’s no money to pay for public services.”  Rajoy campaigned against raising sales tax in last year’s
election and pledged not to touch jobless benefits. The U-turns
have prompted protests and strikes. Unions called demonstrations
across the country later today. Police erected  barriers around
Parliament and guarded the emblematic city hall building with
three vans.  Street Protests  “Taking to the streets is about defending Spain and
defending the rights of Spaniards,” Tomas Gomez, leader of the
Socialists in  Madrid , said in an e-mailed statement. “Rajoy
never fronts up. He’s leading into absolute ruin and he still
won’t face up to Parliament.”  Police stationed a riot wagon and six officers armed with
handguns and batons outside the PP’s headquarters in central
Madrid. On a bench along the street from Rajoy’s political base,
a woman covered in dirt and surrounded by bags was eating yogurt
with her finger. An old man sat on the sidewalk next to a
handwritten sign begging passersby for change.  “They are sacrificing the rights of the people, of the
citizens to rescue the privately owned banks,” Francisco
Jorquera, a lawmaker from the Galician Nationalist Party, told
reporters.  Rajoy is implementing the fourth austerity package since
coming to power in December, after the second recession since
2009 and a 25 percent jobless rate made his previous three
rounds of austerity insufficient.  “We are acting out of necessity, necessity determines the
road to follow,” Montoro said. “That’s why some of our ideas
have been left by the wayside.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  