-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Cameroon (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-19T17:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-cameroon-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Cameroon:  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation with Cameroon  On July 13, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Cameroon on a lapse
of time basis.  Background  The economic rebound observed in 2010 strengthened in 2011, with growth
reaching 4.2 percent (compared with 2.9 percent in 2010), despite a decline
in oil output. This decline reflected aging equipment and postponement of
some investments following the 2008-09 global financial crisis. Average
inflation edged up to 2.9 percent in 2011 (from 1.3 percent the year before)
mostly reflecting a rise in food prices. External balances in 2011 benefited
from positive developments in commodity prices, but the current account
deficit (including grants) widened from 3.0 percent to 4.1 percent of gross
domestic product (GDP), following a 16 percent increase in the volume of
imports.  The government’s fiscal situation remained difficult in 2011. Non-oil revenue
performance was characterized by lower-than-budgeted value-added tax (VAT)
receipts, mostly caused by parastatals not being able to meet their VAT
obligations. The shortfall in non-oil revenue was offset by an oil revenue
windfall generated by the surge in international  oil prices . On the
expenditure side, budget execution was affected by the need to settle
outstanding payment orders from previous years, pressure from fuel subsidies,
and overruns on other current transfers. Consequently, the non-oil primary
deficit, on a cash basis, deteriorated from 5.7 percent to 8.5 percent of
non-oil GDP, and the overall fiscal deficit, on a cash basis, reached 3.4
percent of GDP versus 2.3 percent the year before.  Conditions in the banking system remained worrisome. This reflected financial
distress in four (and possibly five) of the country’s 13 commercial banks,
excessive concentration in bank credit, inadequate resources for the regional
supervisory agency, and  weaknesses in the current framework for dealing
with distressed banks. Financial sector soundness indicators deteriorated
in 2011 and nonperforming loans increased by about 17 percent. At the same
time, the number of banks in violation of the main prudential ratios continued
to increase.  Over the longer term, Cameroon has maintained macroeconomic stability, and
debt relief under the Heavily Indebted Poor Countries (HIPC) and Multilateral
Debt Relief (MDRI) Initiatives considerably reduced the debt burden. However,
there has been almost no growth in per capita income during the last five
years, despite a relatively diversified productive base.  Economic growth is now expected to increase moderately under current policies
which would imply positive per capita growth of over 2 percent in 2012.
Staff projects real GDP to increase gradually from 4.2 percent in 2011 to
5½ percent in 2016. Non-oil growth is to be supported by ongoing efforts to
boost agricultural productivity and competitiveness; major public investment
projects; and measures to improve the business environment. The oil sector is
expected to boost real GDP growth in 2012-17, reflecting the coming on-stream
of ongoing investments, following successful exploration efforts.
Inflation is expected to remain below the regional convergence criterion
of 3 percent.  Executive Board Assessment  In concluding the 2012 Article IV consultation with Cameroon, Executive
Directors endorsed staff’s appraisal, as follows:  Economic growth continues at a moderate pace, and measured inflation remains
within the regional convergence limit of 3 percent. There are, however, risks
to the outlook arising from a potential downturn in the global economy,
particularly in  Europe ; increasing financial sector vulnerabilities and
the impact of the increase in fuel subsidies and the stock of domestic
arrears on fiscal sustainability.  There is a need to address the substantial challenges facing the 2012 budget
if a further deterioration of the fiscal situation is to be avoided. These
result from underbudgeting fuel subsidies, further arrears accumulation in
2011, and contingent liabilities of public enterprises and distressed banks.
Safeguarding fiscal sustainability over the medium-term will require
corrective measures including improving non-oil revenue mobilization;
containing expenditure on fuel subsidies and avoiding accumulation of
domestic arrears; and rebuilding fiscal buffers.  There is continuing concern regarding public financial management performance.
The ongoing audit of arrears should be finalized and a plan adopted for the
settling of audited arrears. Public expenditure management should also be
reinforced by strengthening control of the expenditure chain and better
tracking of the flow of funds.  There are risks to financial sector stability arising from the increasing
number of distressed banks and the delays in restructuring them, the
concentration of bank credit to the national oil refinery, and the
spillover from arrears accumulation.  Lasting financial stability can
only be achieved through an effective regional framework and better
cooperation between national and regional bodies. As the largest economy
in the CEMAC region, Cameroon should take a proactive stance in pressing
toward the necessary regional reforms in the financial sector.  A key policy priority for Cameroon is achieving higher and more inclusive
growth through addressing the significant infrastructure gaps and improving
the business climate. Accelerating Cameroon’s recent moderate economic
growth performance will require the full implementation of a major program
of public investment. Competitiveness in Cameroon remains challenged by
structural factors. Improving the business climate will require that the
authorities tackle governance issues, deepen dialogue with private sector
interests, take measures to increase the level of financial intermediation,
and improve access to credit.  Cameroon’s risk of debt distress remains low. Nonetheless, reducing domestic
arrears and maintaining a prudent borrowing policy are essential to
preserving debt sustainability. Total public debt indicators have
deteriorated since 2011 owing to the impact of domestic arrears on
domestic debt and the need to cover fiscal financing gaps through
increased securitization. There are further signs of vulnerabilities
emerging from increasing quasi-fiscal liabilities of state-owned
enterprises and distressed banks, and external borrowing at nonconcessional
terms. Reform of the fuel subsidy mechanism, improved commitment control,
and external borrowing at concessional terms to the extent possible would
help to maintain overall debt sustainability.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 