-- Statement by the IMF Mission to Zambia (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-19T15:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-zambia-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the  International Monetary Fund  visit to Zambia:  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation with
Zambia  On June 13, 2012, the Executive Board of the International Monetary
Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with Zambia.  Background  Zambia has achieved high and sustained growth and macroeconomic stability
over the past decade, but poverty remains high. Real gross domestic product
(GDP) growth averaged 5.2 percent in 2000-10 (or 3.1 percent per capita);
inflation declined from 30 percent to single digits; debt declined sharply;
and international reserves increased to comfortable levels.  Economic conditions remain favorable and there has been little impact to
date from the European crisis. Real GDP growth is estimated to have been
strong in 2011, driven by a record maize harvest and strong expansion in
bank credit, which has surpassed pre-crisis (2008-09) levels. Inflation
continued to decline, broadly in line with the authorities’ target of 7
percent. Despite copper prices rising to record highs, the external current
account surplus narrowed significantly, mainly reflecting a strong expansion
in imports and a decline in grants. However, gross international reserves
rose above $2 billion for the first time, equivalent to 3 months of
prospective imports. Preliminary data suggest that the fiscal deficit of
the central government remained flat at around 3 percent of GDP in 2011,
as a large expansion in election-related spending was offset by a one-off
payment of mining tax arrears.  In 2012, real GDP is projected to rise by 7.7 percent, reflecting strong
growth in copper production and non-maize agriculture, and an expansionary
fiscal policy. The 2012 budget targets a deficit of 4.1 percent of GDP
and a significant increase in investment. More than half of budget
financing is expected to come from a US$500 million sovereign  bond issue ,
and net domestic financing is targeted to remain low at about 1 percent of
GDP. Inflation is projected to remain close to its current level of around
6 percent in 2012. The Bank of Zambia (BOZ) recently changed its monetary
policy framework from reserve money targeting to the use of a policy rate
as the main monetary policy tool.  Executive Board Assessment  Executive Directors commended the authorities for their sound macroeconomic
management and welcomed Zambia’s strong economic performance in recent
years. Directors noted that while the outlook for the economy is favorable,
it is subject to risks arising from volatility of copper prices and delays
in implementing measures needed to meet the 2012 budget deficit target.
To safeguard macroeconomic stability and to make growth more inclusive,
they stressed the need for continued commitment to strong policies and
implementation of structural reforms.  Directors agreed that fiscal policy should aim at prioritizing growth
enhancing expenditures and mobilizing revenues to create the space needed
to achieve the fiscal objectives. They emphasized the importance of
implementing reforms to maize marketing and pricing, fertilizer subsidies,
and public sector pension funds. These measures should help restore fiscal
sustainability and correct market distortions that have created
overdependence on maize production. Directors noted that revenue enhancing
measures, including strengthening tax administration and reducing
subsidies and incentives will also be critical for achieving the fiscal
targets. In addition, the reinstatement of the automatic petroleum price
adjustment mechanism and the implementation of the multi year electricity
tariff framework are needed to minimize fiscal risks associated with the
current pricing below cost recovery.  Directors underscored that public financial management reforms are essential
to improve budgetary planning and execution and prioritizing spending.
They welcomed the plan to complete the implementation of the Treasury Single
Account and urged the authorities to continue to strengthen their investment
and debt management capacity. These measures would support the planned
scaling up of infrastructure spending and increased use of non-concessional
financing.  Directors endorsed the plans to further enhance the monetary policy
framework in support of a low inflation objective. They encouraged the
authorities to remain vigilant to inflationary pressures and tighten policy
if needed. Directors agreed that the introduction of the monetary policy
rate, combined with use of a broad set of economic indicators to assess the
monetary policy stance, should make monetary policy more flexible and
forward looking and enhance liquidity management. Directors noted that the
flexible exchange rate regime has helped Zambia weather external shocks.
They highlighted that increasing the reserve coverage would also provide an
added buffer.  Directors welcomed the authorities’ efforts to strengthen the financial
sector and improve access to financial services. They urged the authorities,
however, to work closely with key stakeholders to minimize any risks to
the financial sector stemming from the implementation of the new minimum
capital requirement for commercial banks and the redenomination of the
local currency.  Directors emphasized that structural reforms will be critical to achieve
economic diversification and make growth more inclusive, in order to tackle
the high rate of poverty and unemployment. In this context, they encouraged
the authorities to formulate a broad based reform strategy for the  agriculture
sector , and to strengthen formal sector development, in particular by
improving the business climate.  SOURCE: International Monetary Fund 