-- Statement by the IMF Mission to United Kingdom (Text)
-- B y   A i n h o a   G o y e n e c h e
-- 2012-07-19T14:11:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/statement-by-the-imf-mission-to-united-kingdom-text-.html
Following is the text of the mission
statement from the International Monetary Fund visit to  United Kingdom :  IMF Executive Board Concludes 2012 Article IV Consultation with
the United Kingdom  On July 16, 2012 the Executive Board of the International
Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded the Article IV consultation with
the United Kingdom.  Background  The UK’s economic recovery has been sluggish, as the needed
hand-off from public to private demand-led growth has not fully
materialized. Economic activity is projected to gain modest momentum
going forward, but the pace of expansion is expected to be weak
relative to the scale of underutilized resources. As a result, the
output gap is projected to remain sizeable for an extended period,
keeping unemployment (currently over 8 percent) elevated and raising
the risk that sustained cyclical weakness reduces the economy’s
productive capacity. Inflation has been on a downward trend since
peaking in September 2011 and is expected to decline below the 2 percent
target over the medium term, as the large output gap exerts disinflationary
pressure. Risks to this central scenario are large and predominantly to the
downside, including from further setbacks to the euro area crisis and
larger-than-expected headwinds from public and private sector
deleveraging.  Current polices aim to assist economic rebalancing and financial sector
healing. Substantial progress has been made toward achieving a more
sustainable budgetary position and reducing fiscal risks, with
structural fiscal adjustment of about 4¾ percent of GDP over the last
two years. The pace of consolidation is expected to ease to ½ percent
of GDP in FY2012/13, reflecting the authorities’ decision not to
undertake additional discretionary tightening in the short term in
response to substantial downward revisions to potential GDP.  Under current fiscal plans, the pace of consolidation is expected to
accelerate next year to around 1½ percent of GDP.
Bold monetary stimulus has been provided to help counteract the weak
economy and rising risks of undershooting the inflation target.
Specifically, the Bank of England resumed its purchases of  government
bonds  (quantitative easing) in late 2011, with additional purchases
announced in February and July 2012. Despite this monetary easing, credit
conditions remain tight due to elevated  risk aversion , an incomplete
process of financial repair, and rising bank funding costs associated
with intensified stress in the euro area. More recently, the authorities
announced credit easing measures to more directly lower private-sector
borrowing costs, including through broader provision of bank funding and
liquidity. The financial regulatory structure is also being revamped.
A Financial Services Bill toprovide a permanent legal basis for the
new regulatory framework is expected to come into force in early 2013,
and a  White Paper  on Banking Reform has been published with proposals
for additional loss absorbency capacity and ringfencing of retail
operations.  Executive Board Assessment
Executive Directors welcomed the authorities’ efforts aimed at economic
rebalancing, including bold monetary stimulus, financial sector policies
to build buffers and strengthen oversight, and major progress toward a
more sustainable fiscal position. However, they cautioned that a
stalling recovery, high unemployment, and uncertain external conditions
continue to present significant challenges.  Directors welcomed recent announcements to implement additional monetary
Stimulus via further quantitative easing, and most Directors believed that
further easing may be needed, including consideration of a cut in the
policy rate. However, a number of Directors cautioned that scope to provide
more stimulus through rate cuts and standard quantitative easing may be
limited, given that  interest rates  on government debt are already very low.
Noting that elevated bank funding costs have limited lending to the
private sector, Directors welcomed recent measures aimed at lowering
private-sector borrowing costs through broader provision of bank funding
against collateral. They considered that, depending on the use and
performance of these new programs, further credit easing measures may
be needed. Directors underscored that such measures should be complemented
with regulatory policies to ensure that banks do not become dependent on
such facilities.
Directors considered that deeper budget-neutral reallocations could also
Support recovery, including greater investment spending funded by property
tax reform or spending cuts on items with low multipliers. They emphasized
that automatic stabilizers 3 should continue to operate freely, and
underscored the need for shielding the poorest from the impact of
consolidation.  Looking ahead, Directors commended the authorities for their strong
commitment  To achieve fiscal sustainability over the medium term.
Many Directors supported the authorities’ prudent approach toward
further fiscal easing, emphasizing the importance of not undermining
fiscal sustainability and hard-won credibility, and noting the potential
negative feedback loops between public finances and the financial sector.
Many Directors also noted the difficulty of setting a specific timetable
for potential future fiscal policy actions in the current uncertain
environment. However, a number of other Directors considered that fiscal
consolidation should not be accelerated as planned if growth does not
build momentum even after further monetary and credit easing measures,
noting that persistent weak growth that hinders achievement of fiscal
targets might also pose risks to credibility. These Directors noted that
any adjustment to the path of consolidation should be in the context of a
multi-year plan and ideally accompanied by deeper long-run entitlement
reform to help preserve credibility.  Directors stressed the importance of continuing with efforts to bolster
financial stability to anchor a strong and durable recovery, reduce the
risk to taxpayers, and limit spillovers from shocks that are transmitted
through the UK’s financial system. They emphasized that policies should
focus on strengthening bank balance sheets by building capital
rather than reducing assets to balance stability and growth
considerations. Directors also welcomed the review of banks’ liquidity
guidelines to account for the availability of  Bank of England  liquidity
insurance.  Directors emphasized the need to address expeditiously the issue of
“too big to fail.”
They welcomed the progress in developing a more flexible resolution
framework, “living wills” for major institutions, and reform proposals
by the Independent Commission on Banking. Directors also agreed that
a broader macroprudential toolkit for the Financial Policy Committee
is desirable, including powers to limit loan-to-value and loan-to-income
ratios.  Directors supported efforts to intensify supervision and stressed that
provision of adequate resources will be key to achieving this objective.
They also considered that greater authority over financial holding
companies than currently envisaged in the draft Financial Services Bill
will be essential for the future  Prudential Regulatory Authority .
They emphasized that international collaboration on key regulatory and
Supervisory issues will further support financial stability, and they
encouraged the authorities to continue their vital and constructive role
in this regard.  SOURCE:  International Monetary Fund  