-- Suddenlink Agrees to Buyout Led by Management, BC, CPP
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-19T20:50:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/suddenlink-agrees-to-buyout-led-by-management-bc-cpp.html
BC Partners  Ltd. and Canada’s
second-biggest pension fund agreed to buy U.S. cable operator
Suddenlink Communications for $1.99 billion from a group of
investors that includes  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc.  BC Partners is making the purchase together with Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board and a management team led by
Suddenlink Chief Executive Officer Jerry Kent, according to a
statement from Cequel Communications Holdings LLC, which does
business as Suddenlink. Including debt, the deal has an
enterprise value of $6.6 billion, Cequel said.  Suddenlink, based in St. Louis, is the seventh-largest
cable system operator in the U.S., according to the statement.
In the 12 months ending March 31, the company generated $1.96
billion in revenue and $743 million in adjusted earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. In addition to
Goldman Sachs, the sellers include Quadrangle Group LLC and
Oaktree Capital Group LLC.  “Suddenlink is one of the most attractive cable companies
in the U.S. today, with a world-class infrastructure,” Raymond Svider, BC Partners co-chairman and managing partner, said in
the statement. Svider also is chairman of Luxembourg-based
Intelsat SA.  Cable Stocks  The deal helped drive up the price of other cable stocks
today, including  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-largest
U.S. cable provider. Cablevision shares rose 5.8 percent to
$14.16 at the close in  New York , its biggest one-day gain in
nine months. Charter Communications Inc., the fourth-largest
cable operator, gained 2.6 percent to $74.81.  Suddenlink’s buyers will assume net debt that stood at
$4.09 billion as of March 31, as well as $500 million of
“incremental debt,” according to the statement. Moody’s
Investors Service held Suddenlink’s corporate family rating
steady at B1, four levels below investment grade.  Total private-equity takeovers are happening at a slower
clip than in 2011. The acquisitions have reached $61 billion
worldwide this year, compared with $144 billion for all of 2011,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  BC Partners, the British private-equity owner of gym
operator Fitness First Ltd., teamed up with Blackstone Group LP
to bid for Iglo Foods Group Ltd. in June. Iglo’s owner, Permira
Advisers LLP, called off the sale this month after deeming the
bids too low, people familiar with the matter said.  Credit Suisse  A newly formed subsidiary of Suddenlink has entered into a
commitment letter with  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  for $500 million
of senior unsecured bridge loans, according to the statement.
Suddenlink expects to use the proceeds to fund a portion of the
purchase price.  Suddenlink offers television, high-speed Internet and
telephone services to more than 1.4 million residential and
commercial customers, primarily in Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas,
Louisiana,  North Carolina  and West Virginia.  The deal follows  Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA) ’s agreement to buy
Atlantic Broadband, which operates cable systems in
 Pennsylvania , Florida,  Maryland ,  Delaware  and South Carolina,
for $1.36 billion. That purchase will let Cogeco expand into the
U.S. after a failed attempt to gain a foothold in Europe.  The Suddenlink acquisition values the company at 8.5 times
2012 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg
Industries. The Cogeco deal valued Atlantic at 8.3 times.  Both multiples are “far above public equity valuations,”
according to  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co. in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  