-- Svenska Cellulosa Gains Most Since January on Tissue Earnings
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-07-19T11:47:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/svenska-cellulosa-gains-most-since-january-on-tissue-earnings.html
Svenska
Cellulosa AB (SCAA) ,  Europe ’s biggest tissue maker, rose the most in
more than six months after earnings beat analysts’ estimates and
it closed an acquisition.  SCA gained as much as 6.1 percent, the most since Jan. 17,
and was up 4.7 percent at 116.2 kronor as of 1:35 p.m. in
 Stockholm , where the company is based. The share has gained 14
percent this year, valuing the company at 82 billion kronor
($11.9 billion).  “The result was better than expected both in tissue and
personal care, that’s the main driver of the share gain,”
Markku Jarvinen, an analyst at Evli Bank Plc in Helsinki who
recommends investors buy SCA’s shares, said by phone. “The
closure of the Georgia-Pacific unit acquisition was a positive
as well.”  Second-quarter net income fell to 1.3 billion kronor from
1.38 billion kronor a year ago, the company said today in a
statement. That beat the average estimate of 1.28 billion kronor
in a Bloomberg  survey  of nine analysts. Sales fell 0.7 percent
to 20.3 billion kronor.  SCA today completed the purchase of Georgia-Pacific LLC’s
European tissue operations for 1.32 billion euros ($1.62
billion) to add brands including Lotus. Approval of that deal
had been pending since it was first announced in November.  SCA, which is Europe’s biggest private forestry owner, has
increased its focus on consumer hygiene products, enabling it to
skirt the epidemic that’s gripped much of the Nordic  paper
industry . In January it agreed to sell most of its packaging
operations to  DS Smith Plc (SMDS)  for 1.7 billion euros, a deal that
closed July 2.  About 80 percent of SCA’s business is now in hygiene.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  