-- Swiss Stocks Advance on Earnings, Jump in Watch Exports
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-07-19T15:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/swiss-stocks-advance-on-earnings-jump-in-watch-exports.html
Swiss stocks  climbed to a four-month
high as results from drugmakers  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) 
beat analyst estimates and watch exports jumped.  Novartis, the second-biggest listed company in Zurich,
increased to the highest level in 18 months. Actelion, the Swiss
maker of the Tracleer blood-pressure drug, soared 5.7 percent.
 Swatch Group AG (UHR)  and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA rallied more
than 2 percent after watch exports jumped 22 percent in June.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  rose 0.9 percent to 6,323.64 at the
close in in Zurich, the highest since March 19. The gauge has
rallied 11 percent from its 2012 low on June 4 amid easing
concern the euro-area debt crisis is hurting the economy. The
broader Swiss Performance Index added 1 percent today.  “Investors have probably been calmed by reasonable
corporate earnings,” Torben Hoeyer, the chief equity adviser at
Nordea Private Bank in Copenhagen, wrote in a note to clients.
“Equity markets will remain uneasy, but the underlying
sentiment has become more positive, and we believe there is a
good chance stocks could gain even more in the near future.”  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate” pace
in June and early July, as retail sales and manufacturing cooled
in some regions, the  Federal Reserve  said late yesterday in its
Beige Book business survey.  “Manufacturing activity continued to expand slowly in most
districts,” the Fed said in the survey, which is based on
reports from its 12 district banks. “Employment levels improved
at a tepid pace.”  Novartis Climbs  Novartis rose 1.7 percent to 56 Swiss francs, the highest
since Dec. 29, 2010. The company, which has a  19 percent
weighting in the SMI , reported second-quarter profit that
declined less than analysts forecast, helped by increasing sales
of new products such as the Gilenya treatment for multiple
sclerosis and the Afinitor cancer drug.  Earnings excluding some costs fell 6 percent to $3.36
billion, or $1.38 a share, from $3.56 billion, or $1.48 a year
ago, the Basel, Switzerland-based company said. Analysts had
predicted profit of $1.33 a share, the average of 14 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Actelion advanced 5.7 percent to 43.60 francs, the largest
gain since April. Second-quarter product revenue rose 1.3
percent to 445.9 million Swiss francs ($456 million), topping
the 434.8 million-franc average of 10 analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Actelion Forecast  Core earnings, or sales minus cash operating expenses and
excluding currency effects, will  increase  in a “mid single-
digit” percentage range, the Allschwil-based company said. The
drugmaker had expected earnings to remain unchanged from 2011
figures.  Swatch, the biggest Swiss watchmaker, rose 2.1 percent to
372.80 francs while  Richemont (CFR) , the owner of the Cartier and Mont
Blanc brands, advanced 3.1 percent to 53.90 francs.  Swiss watch exports jumped 22 percent in June from a year
earlier, according to the Federation of the Swiss Watch
Industry. Citigroup Inc. analysts also said some global luxury
companies, including Richemont, may benefit from the rebalancing
of the Chinese economy to focus more on  consumer spending  than
investment.  The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the SMI was 48 percent higher than the average of the last 30
days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  