-- Syms Asks Court Permission to Auction Florida Property
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-07-19T19:57:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/syms-asks-court-permission-to-hold-auction-for-florida-property.html
Syms Corp. (SYMSQ) , the bankrupt discount
clothing chain, and its Filene’s Basement LLC are seeking court
permission to sell a Miami property at auction with an opening
offer of $4.5 million.  Syms will ask a judge to approve bidding procedures for the
proposed auction at a hearing set for July 31, according to
documents filed July 17 in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,
 Delaware . The company plans to hold the auction on Aug. 14,
followed by a hearing to approve the sale on Aug. 16, according
to court papers. All bids would be due by Aug. 13.  “The sale represents its best opportunity under the
circumstances to maximize the value of the property,” lawyers
for Syms said in court papers. The sale is “crucial” to Syms’s
effort to confirm a restructuring plan by mid-September,
according to the filing.  Syms selected Florida-based Independent Living Systems LLC
as the so-called stalking horse, or lead bidder, with a
$4.5 million bid after marketing the property since February,
according to court papers. Independent’s offer would set the
floor for other potential buyers to beat.  Syms, based in Secaucus,  New Jersey , last week won court
approval of its disclosure statement, an outline of the
reorganization plan, allowing the company to send the proposal
to creditors for a vote. The company seeks to reorganize around
Syms’s real estate assets, valued at about $147 million. Syms is
scheduled to seek court approval of the plan on Aug. 29.  The lead case is In re Filene’s Basement LLC, 11-13511, U.S
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  