-- Syria’s Collapse Would Reverberate Throughout the Mideast
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-07-19T22:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/syria-s-collapse-would-reverebate-throughout-the-mideast.html
The assassination of three Syrian
military leaders loyal to President Bashar al-Assad may hasten
the end of his family’s four-decade rule, an upheaval that would
affect the security and influence of  Israel ,  Iran ,  Saudi Arabia ,
Jordan, Lebanon and other neighboring states.  Nabil el-Arabi, secretary-general of the  Arab League ,
expressed anxiety among  Syria ’s neighbors over the regional
fallout from the crisis when he warned July 18 of “a collapse
in the situation not only in Syria, but for the whole region.”  If Assad’s regime is toppled, the ensuing power struggle
might bring with it revenge killings by or against his minority
Shiite Alawite sect, which controls the military and the
economy, said  Aaron David Miller , a fellow at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars in  Washington .  Instability and sectarian violence could bleed into
neighboring states such as Jordan, Lebanon, and Iraq. Already,
125,000 Syrian refugees have fled the violence to neighboring
states, with the greatest number to camps in  Turkey , the U.S.
State Department said yesterday.  No one knows whether the bombing July 18 inside a heavily
guarded military compound in the capital of Damascus is the
beginning of the end for the Assad family’s authoritarian
regime, or what new government or chaos might follow it.  Assad’s closest allies, Iran and  Russia , would be the
likely losers if power shifts to Assad’s rivals. Lebanon, Jordan
and Israel would benefit if Syria’s new leadership ceases to
provide a conduit for arms and assistance from Iran to terrorist
groups in Lebanon and along the Israeli border, such as
Hezbollah, officials and analysts said.  Israel’s Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu yesterday said
Hezbollah was behind a bombing that killed at least five Israeli
tourists in Bulgaria.  Power Vacuum  If Syrian power brokers don’t agree to an orderly political
transition, U.S. and Israeli intelligence officials worry that a
power vacuum may provide an opening for terrorists or radical
Islamists.  “Over the next 24 to 48 hours, either the regime and the
security apparatus will rally or real divisions will begin to
manifest that would usher in even further instability,” said
Aram Nerguizian, a visiting fellow at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in Washington.  Nerguizian cautioned in an interview against making
premature assumptions about what might follow Assad. “Even if
the regime were to collapse, splinter or change, Syria is likely
to be a source of regional instability for at least a decade,
and there is no way to map out next phases in the crisis, which
are likely to be even more sectarian in nature as the Alawites
try to ensure their autonomy and political survival,”
Nerguizian said.  End Game  Miller, who was a  Middle East  policy maker in a succession
of U.S. administrations, said in an interview that the “end of
Assad is not the end game,” whenever it comes. Rather, it will
be the first in “a series of transitions.”  Miller said external meddling will continue from regional
actors such as Iran, which has supported the Assad regime, and
Saudi Arabia, which has armed his opponents.  Likewise, internal tensions -- the split among minority
Alawites who control much of the country’s wealth and military
assets, majority Sunnis who support the opposition, and minority
Christians and Kurds “who will be asking where their future
rests” -- will keep the situation unstable, he said.  “How do you share power in a country that is riven with
sectarian differences against a backdrop of 17,000 dead?”
Miller asked.  Retribution Ahead  In March 2011, the Syrian government began its brutal
crackdown on protesters who were inspired by democratic
uprisings across the Middle East. The conflict morphed into
clashes between security forces with heavy weaponry and unarmed
citizens, as well as the armed opposition Free Syrian Army,
which has been aided by Saudi Arabia and Qatar.  Whoever the winners, the major concern is, “When is the
retribution going to come?” Miller said.  Many Sunnis will want to take revenge against Alawites and
Christians who backed Assad, said  David Schenker , director of
the program on Arab politics at the Washington Institute for
Near East Policy.  “You can have a violent and bloody situation at home that
creates continued refugee flows into Jordan and Turkey, and
instability and sectarian tension in Lebanon,” where the Shiite
Hezbollah militia, long backed by Syria and Iran, will face an
emboldened Sunni and Christian population.  Hezbollah ‘Pinched’  “Hezbollah will feel pinched,” said Schenker. At least in
the short run, that will benefit Israel, which will have a
weaker enemy on its northern border, he and other analysts said.  The divisions among sectarian and religious groups make
 Andrew Tabler , author of “In the Lion’s Den: An Eyewitness
Account of Washington’s Battle with Syria,” worry that
“there’s increasingly a chance the country is going to break
into pieces.”  That makes it critical, Tabler said in an interview, that
the U.S. “lay down some red lines,” making it clear that it
will not tolerate mass atrocities or the use of Syria’s chemical
weapons, the largest arsenal in the region.  Miller said he doubts Syria will break apart. “The Arab
world doesn’t offer up any example of a state that has
fragmented,” he said. “It may be more like Lebanon and Iraq --
a nominal state riven by factional, sectarian and political
struggles for power.”  If the current struggle continues for another year, Miller
said, Saudi Arabia is likely to support the armed Sunni
opposition even more actively, while Iran and Hezbollah will try
to prop up Assad and the Russians “hedge their bets and try to
avoid” an American-determined transition plan.  Golan Heights  The Israelis worry about security on the Golan Heights that
they captured from Syria in the 1967 Mideast war and the rise of
any extremist elements. Yesterday, Israel limited all military
leaves to guard against growing instability in Syria.  On July 17, Major General Aviv Kochavi, chief of Israeli
military intelligence, told Israeli lawmakers in a closed-door
session that he is concerned about an influx of global jihadists
into the Golan Heights, as the Syrian regime moves its forces
out of the border region and into the cities to fight unrest,
according to a statement from the office of the Knesset
committee’s spokesman.  In a post-Assad Syria, Russia stands to lose its only
presence in the Mediterranean Sea, a naval facility at Tartus,
which analysts said is also a key intelligence-gathering
operation for Russia in the region. Russia also could lose
billions of dollars in arms sales to Syria.  Advanced Weapons  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  told U.S. Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta  on July 18 that Israel believes “that
the removal of the high-ranking Syrian officials will catalyze
the fall of the Assad regime. In addition, we are vigilantly
watching the developments and the possibility that Hezbollah
might attempt to transfer advanced weapons systems or chemical
weapons from Syria to Lebanon,” Barak said, according to his
office.  Martin Indyk , a former U.S. ambassador to Israel, said a
major concern for Israel is what happens to Syria’s large store
of chemical weapons, which the White House has said it believes
is still under the regime’s control.  Positive Consequences  The uprising against Assad has positive consequences for
Israel, Lebanon, Jordan and other U.S. allies in the region that
have seen less interference by Syria and its terrorist proxies
while Assad has been consumed by a revolt at home, he said in an
interview.  “Certainly there is the potential for a deluge” after
Assad, said Indyk, director of  foreign policy  at the  Brookings
Institution , a Washington-based think tank. “But there’s also
some upside: the removal of a horrendously brutal regime and the
potential for a different Syria to emerge out of this, one that
will be in favor of democracy, and dare I venture the thought:
peace.”  Indyk, a former assistant U.S. secretary of state for the
Middle East, said the fall of Assad’s regime will be “a
profound strategic setback for Iran, regardless of what happens
afterwards. There’s no way that the next regime going to be pro-
Iran, given the role Iran has played in defense of the Assad
regime.”  Iranian Conduit  Syria has been a conduit for Iranian influence into Lebanon
and as far as the  Gaza Strip . Iran “was able to engineer
Hezbollah’s takeover of the Lebanese government and turn
southern Lebanon into base for potential Hezbollah attacks on
Israel, arming Hezbollah with 40,000 rockets via Syria,” said
Indyk, co-author of “Bending History:  Barack Obama ’s Foreign
Policy.”  A collapse in Syria could create blowback as far as the
Persian Gulf, analysts said. Iran, angry at losing its key ally,
might retaliate against Saudi Arabia’s support for the Syrian
opposition by fomenting sectarian trouble in Bahrain or Saudi
Arabia’s oil-rich and majority Shiite Eastern Province. “The
Iranians may decide to play payback,” Indyk said.  The weaker the Syrian regime gets, said Indyk, the more
Lebanon, Jordan and Israel may benefit -- so long as whatever
comes next isn’t worse for them. Sunni extremists are unlikely
to take over in Damascus, he said, because “they’re a small
part of the opposition” in a country where Islamists have been
“systematically and brutally repressed and shipped out, so they
don’t have the kind of grassroots political network that the
Muslim Brotherhood has in Egypt.”  Marina Ottaway , a senior associate at the Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace in Washington, said in an
interview that it’s futile to predict the regional impact of a
new Syrian government because “we don’t have the faintest idea
what comes next.”  Outsiders know “very little about the resistance inside
the country, and they are the ones most likely to take over if
Assad goes,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  