-- Russian UN Veto Shields Assad As Violence Rages in Syria
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-19T17:48:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/syrian-forces-pound-rebel-hideouts-after-damascus-bomb-attack.html
As violence in Damascus intensifies,
 Russia  dealt a potential death blow to international efforts to
end an 18-month conflict by using its veto at the  United Nations 
for the third time to shield President Bashar al-Assad.  Russia, whose ties with  Syria  date to the Soviet era, and
 China  today blocked a Security Council resolution threatening
sanctions on the Syrian regime unless Assad complied in 10 days
with a UN peace plan he has flouted until now.  As diplomatic avenues on Syria reached a dead end, Syrian
security forces loyal to Assad pounded rebel hideouts in
Damascus today in retaliation for yesterday’s blast that killed
three of Assad’s top deputies fighting the insurgency. With the
UN’s decision-making body powerless to take action, Assad’s fate
will probably be decided on the Syrian streets amid apprehension
over whether he’ll unleash chemical weapons on his opponents.  “The potential for this regime to consider using chemical
weapons against its own people should be a concern for us all,”
U.S. ambassador envoy  Susan Rice  told the council.  Labeling Russia’s veto “dangerous and deplorable,’ the top
American diplomat at the UN said the scene was set for a “proxy
war that could engulf the region.”  Sarin, Cyanide  Syria has a stockpile of sarin nerve agent, mustard gas and
cyanide, in what is probably the largest and most advanced
chemical warfare program in the Arab world.  Other governments in the region have used chemical weapons
against domestic opponents -- Yemen during its civil war in the
1960s, and Iraq against Kurdish and Shiite rebels in 1988 and
1991, so such a scenario isn’t implausible in Syria, Michael Eisenstadt of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy said
in a research paper this week.  Russia will be perceived as “having direct responsibility
if he uses chemical weapons or unleashes more firepower from the
air,” said  George Lopez , a former UN sanctions investigator who
now teaches at the Kroc Institute for International Peace
Studies at the University of  Notre Dame  in  Indiana .  Western diplomats today attacked Russia for putting first
its historic links and economic interests with Assad. Syria is
an arms customer and hosts Russia’s only military base outside
the former  Soviet Union  in the port of Tartus.  “The effect of their actions is to protect a brutal
regime,” U.K. Ambassador to the UN Mark Lyall Grant told the
council after the vote. “They have chosen to put their national
interests ahead of the lives of millions of Syrians.”  ‘Wrong Side’  U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , said
the double veto puts Russia and China on the “wrong side of
history.” Traveling with Obama to  Florida , he told reporters
“it’s a mistake prop up that regime as it comes to an end.”  Countering that criticism, Russian UN envoy Vitaly Churkin
accused the U.S. and its European allies of refusing to exclude
military intervention from its “biased” draft resolution and
“pushing its own geopolitical designs.”  The Western-drafted resolution specifically called for non-
military measures such as an embargo on supplying arms to the
Syrian military and the freezing of assets.  At least 77 people were killed across Syria today,
including 38 people in Damascus and its suburbs, the Local
Coordination Committees in Syria said in an e-mail. It said at
least 130 people were killed in the shelling of a funeral
yesterday in the Sayyeda Zainab area on the outskirts of
Damascus.  “It pains me to say, but we are not on the track for peace
in Syria, and the escalations we have witnessed in Damascus over
the past few days is a testimony to that,” said Major General
Robert Mood, commander of the UN observer mission in Syria.  No Peace  About 300 unarmed peacekeepers are set to return soon from
Syria after a UN monitoring mission that failed to quell
escalating violence in a country torn by a civil war pitting
majority  Sunni Muslims  against a leadership class drawn from the
Alawite minority affiliated with Shiite Islam.  The  Security Council  is poised to vote tomorrow on a 30-day
extension of the mission. The U.S. has objected to keeping
monitors in the country because they are unable to carry out the
job they were given and because of the risks they run.  In the capital of Damascus, Assad’s power base, Syrian
troops used helicopters and heavy artillery against the rebels,
while snipers took up positions on rooftops on the outskirts of
the city, the  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights  said in an e-
mailed statement. “Explosions are heard throughout the
capital,” it said.  ‘Mad’ Regime  “The regime has gone mad,” Rima Flaihan, spokeswoman for
the Local Coordination Committees in Syria, said in a telephone
interview today from Jordan. “The regime is in a horrid state
of savagery, seeking revenge for the killings of the military
leaders.”  The explosion yesterday targeted members of Assad’s
military establishment as they met at the national security
headquarters in Damascus. Three people were killed, according to
state-run media: Assad’s brother-in-law, Assef Shawkat; Defense
Minister Dawoud Rajhah; and the vice president’s military
adviser, Hasan Turkmani. Other officials including the interior
minister were injured, state television said. Shawkat served as
deputy defense minister and deputy chief of staff for security.  They were the most senior officials to die since the
uprising began in March 2011.  Assad Surfaces  State-run Syrian television aired the first footage of
Assad more than 24 hours after the attack. Dressed in a dark
blue suit and tie, he greeted the new defense minister and
attended his swearing-in. The broadcast didn’t indicate where
the brief ceremony took place. By late today, state media hadn’t
aired footage of the attack as is customary when such bombings
occur.  Rebel fighters, mostly armed with light weapons, have been
pushing into the capital this week and battling government
forces armed with tanks, artillery and attack helicopters.  The fighters are mostly led by Sunni Muslims, who form the
majority of Syria’s population. Assad and many of his top
officials come from the country’s Alawite minority, an offshoot
of the Shiite branch of Islam that stands to lose privileges,
property and even lives if his regime falls.  The Free Syrian Army, a loose collection of deserters and
armed youths, claimed responsibility for yesterday’s attack.  “The person who carried out the operation is in a safe
place now, and he is a person very close to the regime,”
Brigadier General Mustafa al-Sheikh, head of the Supreme Council
of the Free Syrian Army, told  Al Jazeera . “It was not a suicide
mission, just explosives that were placed in a small room.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  