-- U.K. Stocks Advance as Earnings Exceed Estimates
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-07-19T15:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/u-k-stocks-rise-to-two-week-high-on-u-s-earnings.html
U.K. stocks  rallied to an eleven-
week high as U.S. and European companies reported earnings that
topped analysts’ estimates.  Burberry Plc gained 4.6 percent after Hermes International
SCA reported second-quarter profit that surpassed projections.
Halfords Group Plc climbed 4.3 percent after Chief Executive
Officer David Wild resigned.  Kingfisher Plc (KGF)  fell 1.3 percent
after saying margins at its B&Q chains will narrow in the
current quarter.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  rose 28.42, or 0.5 percent, to 5,714.19 at the
close in  London , the highest since May 3. The index has advanced
8.6 percent from its 2012 low on June 1 as central banks
announced measures to boost economic growth. The broader FTSE
All-Share Index gained 0.6 percent and Ireland’s ISEQ Index
added 0.7 percent today.  “The earnings from the U.S. were more positive than people
were expecting,” said Gerard Lane, a strategist at Shore
Capital Group Ltd. in Liverpool,  England . “In an environment
where short-interest ratio is relatively high, the good news is
squeezing the market higher.”  Second-quarter earnings have exceeded analyst estimates at
72 of the 102 companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that
have reported results so far, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Profit Scorecard  International Business Machines Corp. yesterday raised its
full-year earnings forecast after second-quarter profit topped
estimates. EBay Inc., the world’s largest Internet marketplace,
said revenue rose 23 percent to $3.4 billion, exceeding the
average forecast of $3.36 billion. Profit excluding some items
was 56 cents a share, higher than the 55 cent-prediction by
analysts.  The  U.S. economy  expanded at a “modest to moderate” pace
in June and early July, the Fed said in its Beige Book survey
late yesterday..  “Manufacturing activity continued to expand slowly in most
districts,” the Fed said in its Beige Book business survey,
which is based on reports from its 12 district banks.
“Employment levels improved at a tepid pace.”  In the U.K.,  retail sales  grew in June at a slower pace
than expected, a report showed. Sales including auto fuel rose
0.1 percent last month, following a revised 1.5 percent a month
earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said today. The
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey called
for a 0.6 percent gain.  Libor Probe  Central bankers will join  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  in September for a meeting on the possible future of the
London Interbank Offered Rate.  Discussions will begin on September 9 and continue with
“supervisors, regulators, central banks and treasuries” at the
Financial Stability Board, said  Jeremy Harrison , spokesman for
Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney , who is also chairman of the
FSB.  HSBC Holdings Plc is among banks whose traders are under
investigation for interest-rate manipulation in a global probe
that led to fines of 290 million pounds ($454 million) for
Barclays Plc last month, a person with knowledge of the matter
said.  Burberry, U.K.’s largest luxury-goods company, added 4.6
percent to 1,289 pence after Hermes, the French maker of silk
scarves and  leather goods , reported second-quarter sales that
beat estimates.  Halfords Jumps  Halfords, a U.K. retailer of bicycles and car parts,
climbed 4.3 percent to 205.8 pence. Wild, who joined as CEO in
2008, resigned after same-store retail revenue fell 7.5 percent
in the fiscal first quarter ended June 29, the company said in a
statement.  Ricardo Plc (RCDO)  gained 2.9 percent to 350 pence after giving a
trading update for the year through June 2012. The company said
its full-year profit will show “solid growth” and will be at
the upper end of analyst expectations. Analysts in a Bloomberg
News survey forecast a pretax profit in the range of 16.2
million pounds to 16.7 million pounds. Ricardo will publish the
results on Sept. 20.  Afren Plc, a U.K.-based explorer focused on Nigeria and
Iraq, jumped 7.7 percent to 128 pence after saying its Simrit-2
exploration well in Kurdistan, Iraq, found more oil.  Kingfisher lost 1.3 percent to 271.6 pence after Europe’s
largest home-improvement retailer said gross margins at B&Q will
narrow this quarter, hurt by markdowns and sales promotions to
attract shoppers.  G4S Plc (GFS) , the security company criticized by lawmakers over
its failure to deliver adequate staff for the London  Olympic
Games , declined 0.6 percent to 243.5 pence, its fifth decrease
in six days. The U.K. government should review the company’s
ability to deliver policing contracts before signing any more
deals with it, Labour Party leader  Ed Miliband  said in a speech
in London today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  