-- U.K. Reshuffle Is Chance to Dial Back Austerity
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-19T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/u-k-reshuffle-is-chance-to-dial-back-austerity.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
appears set to reshuffle his Cabinet after Parliament’s summer
break. That’s a traditional displacement activity for battered
British leaders, and Cameron readily qualifies: His Conservative
government could use a reset.  Recent setbacks have weakened Cameron at a time when severe
tests lie ahead for his government. He leads a coalition --
unusual in British politics -- and his Liberal Democratic
partners are talking rebellion. The Tories’ public support has
fallen, and the  Labour Party , written off for dead after the
recession began on its watch, shows signs of life. Meanwhile,
economic policy, constitutional reform and the future of the
U.K. in Europe all demand decisive action.  The economy is the most pressing issue. Cameron’s Tories,
alarmed by the country’s surging budget deficits, made fiscal
austerity their main response to the British recession. The
policy was brave and more defensible than critics allow: Further
fiscal expansion is a riskier proposition for the U.K. than for
the U.S., which is in the happy position of being able to print
the world’s main reserve currency. Nonetheless Cameron overdid
it, aiming for too much austerity too soon. The recovery
stalled, and a shrinking tax base has made a mockery of the
Tories’ fiscal targets.  Fiscal Space  Today the International Monetary Fund -- whose middle name
is fiscal conservatism -- called on the U.K. to adopt “more
expansionary demand policies,” and said the pace of planned
fiscal tightening will need to slow if the Bank of England’s
recent moves to spur credit don’t work. “The U.K. has the fiscal
space to make such adjustments,” the IMF said.  A course-correction rather than a U-turn is called for. The
government has just announced added support for infrastructure
spending, mainly in the form of loan guarantees. That’s good,
but too timid: public-spending constraints, more than lack of
financing, are holding up feasible projects. Cameron should ease
those constraints in the short term, while affirming his
commitment to longer-term fiscal control.  The expected Cabinet reorganization could help. A cautious
fiscal relaxation would be easier to do if  George Osborne ,
chancellor of the exchequer, and  William Hague , foreign
secretary, were to swap jobs. Hague is less tied to the
government’s flawed fiscal policy.  The center-left Liberal Democrats are unlikely to oppose
greater fiscal flexibility. The disagreements they have with
their Tory partners on constitutional reform and Britain’s place
in Europe will be harder for Cameron to manage. When  Nick Clegg ,
deputy prime minister and the Liberal Democrats’ leader, allied
his reluctant party with the Tories, he and his supporters
believed that constitutional reform would be the prize. They
were wrong.  First, the party’s hopes for electoral reform came to
nothing when a proposal to change the voting system was heavily
defeated in a referendum last year. Then, this month, a promised
reform of the House of Lords to create a mostly elected second
chamber was scuppered by a Tory backbench revolt. Rather than
risk a humiliating parliamentary defeat, Cameron chose not to
put it to a vote.  The issue hasn’t gone away and isn’t likely to. Rank and
file Liberal Democrats are asking why they joined the coalition
in the first place. They’re threatening to retaliate against the
Tories by blocking plans for changes to constituency boundaries
that might give the Conservatives 20 more seats in a future
vote. All that binds the partners together between now and the
next election -- in 2015 at the latest -- is their dismal
standing in the opinion polls. An early election, which would
follow if the alliance collapsed, is an outcome both sides dread
yet looks increasingly possible.  Suffering Allies  Cameron should try harder to bring his party around to
reform the House of Lords. It’s a worthy cause, even if only to
remove the last of the  hereditary peers , the worst anomaly in
Britain’s constitutional arrangements. Cameron owes his long-
suffering allies some payback, and he’ll need their help on the
third and most momentous issue he must confront: The U.K.’s
place in  Europe .  Cameron’s party is divided on this unending controversy. A
significant Tory faction blames the country’s economic troubles
on the European Union. These MPs support a referendum on the
terms of British membership in the EU, and perhaps on whether
the U.K. should be in or out. Cameron, by Tory standards, is a
Europhile. He has said he would never campaign for the U.K. to
leave the EU, though he favors the idea of an adjusted
settlement. A renegotiation of the U.K.’s membership terms would
make sense if the euro-area countries move closer to political
union -- as they may have to -- and a two-speed EU is the
result.  In pressing for the U.K. to remain a fully engaged member
of the EU, Cameron would benefit from having Clegg and his
instinctively pro-European party as allies. So far, the Liberal
Democrats have almost nothing to show for their pact with the
Tories. Cameron would be smart to change that, for Britain’s
sake, as well as his own. It’s something for the prime minster
to think about as he choreographs the coming round of musical
chairs.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  California ’s model  maternity-
leave program ; Stephen L. Carter on  lying politicians ; William
Pesek on the  loss of faith  in bankers;  Virginia Postrel  on
 economic segregation ;  Amity Shlaes  on how states can  remake the
tax system ;  Jonathan Weil  on the Barclays  Libor-rigging
settlement ; Robert Boxwell on one banker’s  exemplary testimony 
to the U.K. Parliament;  Nell Minow  on the U.S.’s budding
shareholder revolt over  excessive corporate pay .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 