-- U.K. Less-Than-Forecast Retail Sales Hit Recovery Hopes: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-07-19T11:06:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/u-k-retail-sales-rise-less-than-forecast-as-weather-hits-food.html
U.K.  retail sales  rose less than
economists forecast last month, reducing expectations that
Britain was able to exit a recession in the second quarter.  Sales including auto fuel gained 0.1 percent from May, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London. The median
 forecast  of 18 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
0.6 percent increase. Excluding fuel, sales were up 0.3 percent.
Food sales dropped 0.7 percent.  The U.K. had the most rain for a June since 1910 last
month, curbing food sales, while an extra public holiday for the
queen’s jubilee celebrations didn’t give a major boost to
demand. The continued weakness in  consumer spending  is hindering
Britain’s recovery after  the economy  shrank in the last quarter
of 2011 and the first three months of this year.  It’s “another death knell for already low hopes that the
economy avoided a third successive quarter of contraction,”
said  Howard Archer , an economist at IHS Global Insight in
London. “Conditions remain tough for consumers with inflation
still above earnings growth, the jobs outlook uncertain and
tighter fiscal conditions affecting many people.”  In the three months through June, overall U.K. retail sales
fell 0.7 percent, the weakest quarterly performance since
January-March 2010. A separate report from the  Council of
Mortgage Lenders  showed gross mortgage lending fell 5 percent in
June from the previous month.  The pound erased gains against the dollar after the
reports, dropping to as low as $1.5637, before recovering. It
traded at $1.5684 as of 11:36 a.m. in London, up 0.2 percent on
the day. U.K. government bonds stayed lower, with the yield on
the 10-year gilt rising 3 basis points to 1.5 percent.  Jubilee Effect  The statistics office said the extra public holiday for the
jubilee last month “appears not to have had a significant
impact on retail sales.” The previous jubilee in 2002 also
failed to boost consumer spending, it said.  Mitchells & Butlers Plc (MAB) , the owner of the All Bar One
chain, said today that trading conditions “remain challenging
with a difficult consumer environment.”  Gasoline sales fell 2.2 percent in June from May, according
to today’s report. Sales of clothing and shoes rose 2.5 percent
as stores brought forward summer discounts that traditionally
happen in July and August, the statistics office said. Primark,
the clothing retail chain owned by  Associated British Foods Plc (ABF) ,
had “good” trading in the quarter through June 23, it said
this month.  From a year earlier, sales were up 1.6 percent in June.
Excluding fuel, retail sales rose 0.3 percent in June from May
and increased 2.2 percent from a year earlier.  U.K. Inflation  U.K.  gross domestic product  probably shrank 0.2 percent in
the three months through June, the National Institute of
Economic and Social Research said last week.  The  Bank of England  said this week that economic growth
this year will be “roughly flat.” It also said it’s “less
likely” inflation expectations will become ingrained in the
economy. Data this week showed  U.K. inflation  unexpectedly
slowed to 2.4 percent in June from 2.8 percent in May, moving
closer to the central bank’s 2 percent target.  According to today’s report, shop prices as measured by the
retail sales deflator rose an annual 0.3 percent in June, the
least since October 2009. The monthly price deflator was down
1.3 percent, the biggest decline since December 2008.  Spain Auction  Elsewhere,  Spain  sold 2.98 billion euros ($3.66 billion) of
notes today, in line with its maximum target, and its borrowing
costs surged as demand for the securities weakened.  The Madrid-based Treasury sold notes due in 2014 at an
average yield of 5.204 percent, compared with 4.335 percent when
they were last sold on June 7. It sold five-year notes at 6.459
percent, compared with 6.072 percent on June 21 and seven-year
securities at an average yield of 6.701 percent.  Swiss  exports , adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings,
were unchanged in the second quarter from the first, when they
climbed 0.2 percent, the Federal Customs Office in Bern said.
Imports also held steady after rising 1.1 percent in the first
quarter and the  trade surplus  widened.  In  Australia , businesses grew less optimistic about near-
term prospects, signaling a slowdown in the fastest-growing
developed economy that economists predict will force the central
bank to cut  interest rates  again.  The business conditions index for the next three months
dropped to 5, the lowest reading since the second quarter of
2009. The second-quarter confidence index slipped to minus 2,
the lowest since the third quarter last year.  U.S.  initial jobs claims  rose to 365,000 in the week ended
July 14, while June house sales increased 1.5 percent, reversing
a decline in May, according to Bloomberg surveys. The Conference
Board’s index of leading economic indicators probably fell after
a gain in May, another survey showed.  The Labor Department will issue the jobs claims figures at
8:30 a.m. in  Washington , while the report on house sales from
the National Association of Realtors is due 90 minutes later.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  