-- U.S. House Has Bipartisan Deal to Normalize Russia Trade
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-07-19T21:11:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/u-s-house-has-bipartisan-deal-to-normalize-russia-trade.html
A bipartisan agreement on
legislation to grant permanent normalized U.S. trade relations
with  Russia  was announced by the chairman and top Democrat on
the House Ways and Means Committee.  The agreement increases the likelihood that Congress will
enact the measure before lawmakers leave for their August
recess. That would allow U.S. businesses such as  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT) ,  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  General Electric Co. (GE)  to take full advantage
of Russia’s admission to the World Trade Organization next
month.  The deal also cleared the way for inclusion of a provision
to impose U.S financial and travel sanctions on Russian human-
rights violators. That legislation, approved by another House
committee and included in a Senate version of the trade bill, is
a source of friction between Russia and the U.S.  U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  praised the agreement.  “More exports to Russia will mean more American jobs here
at home,” Kirk said in a statement. “We look forward to
working with Congress to put a final bill on the president’s
desk as soon as possible.”  Without permanent normalization of Russia’s trade status,
U.S. exporters couldn’t seek protection of WTO rules.  The deal was announced the same day as Russia vetoed a
United Nations resolution to impose sanctions on Syria as
violence in the capital of Damascus intensified. Several
Republican senators said Russia’s veto may complicate a pending
Senate vote on the trade issue. Still, they said withholding
favorable trade status would hurt U.S. exporters, not Russia.  Political Component  Trade normalization “needs to be advanced”
notwithstanding Russia’s veto because most people recognize that
the political “component of our relationship needs to be kept
separate from the trade component,” said Republican Senator
 John Thune  of South Dakota.  U.S. businesses are those “that get hurt” by withholding
normalized trade status from Russia, said Thune, a member of the
Senate Republican leadership team.  Under the agreement announced today, the House Ways and
Means Committee will draft legislation next week that will
“mirror” the version approved yesterday by the Senate Finance
Committee, said a statement by the House panel’s chairman,
Michigan Republican  Dave Camp , and top Democrat  Sander Levin ,
also of Michigan.  Normalized trade relations “will ensure that U.S. workers,
employers, farmers and ranchers have an even playing field when
competing for business in Russia,” Camp said in a statement.  Human Rights  Camp said he will urge House leaders to include the human-
rights provision approved by the House Foreign Affairs Committee
in the trade measure.  Yesterday, the Senate Finance Committee unanimously
approved legislation to normalize trade relations with Russia
and repeal the 1974 Jackson-Vanik law that barred favorable
trade status because the former  Soviet Union  wouldn’t allow
Jewish citizens to emigrate.  The Senate measure included the human-rights provision
similar to the one approved by the House Foreign Affairs
Committee.  Another member of Senate Republican leadership,  Roy Blunt 
of Missouri, said Russia’s veto at the UN is “not helpful,”
nor is President Vladimir Putin’s “view of suppressing
freedom.”  Still, “we benefit from a trade agreement, and
particularly if it can have the right amount of human rights
protection we should do it,” Blunt said.  The Finance Committee yesterday rejected by a 16-8 vote an
amendment by Texas Republican  John Cornyn  to allow normalized
trade relations only if the president certified that Russia had
stopped selling arms to Syria and other state sponsors of
terrorism.  Before the House deal was announced, Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said he didn’t know whether a
Senate vote could be scheduled before the August recess.  “It’s important we do it,” Reid said. “I just don’t want
to start some crazy debate on war in Pakistan or Syria.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  