-- U.S. House Gives Vote of Support to Military Sponsoring Nascar
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2012-07-19T03:42:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/u-s-house-gives-vote-of-support-to-military-sponsoring-nascar.html
If National Guard recruiters want to
keep sponsoring Dale Earnhardt Jr.’s racing team, the U.S. House
is willing to keep providing millions of dollars for the right
to back No. 88.  An effort to ban the military from spending $72.3 million
on sponsorships was defeated on a bipartisan vote of 216-202 --
a victory for  Nascar , the  National Football League  and the
 National Basketball Association , which lobbied against the
proposal.  “I say let the military run the recruiting as they have
done successfully for all these years,” said Representative
Bill Young of  Florida , chairman of the  House Appropriations
Defense Subcommittee .  “When we start micromanaging advertising programs that try
to recruit National Guard members, we’ve sort of slipped into
the absurd,” said North Carolina Republican  Patrick McHenry .
“This is a huge return for the buck. This is why Fortune 500
companies actually advertise through Nascar.”  The vote didn’t fall along party lines. The dispute was
between backers of the sponsorships and lawmakers who said they
are a luxury the nation can’t afford.  It would be “irresponsible and outrageous” for Congress
to continue allowing the Pentagon to sponsor sports while
cutting funding for services that aid struggling families and
communities, said Minnesota Democrat Betty McCollum.  “We can spend this money a lot better than we are today,”
said Georgia Republican Jack Kingston, who offered the defeated
amendment.  Army Decision  The Army has said that it doesn’t intend to sponsor a
Nascar team after this year, saying the spending can’t be
justified.  Sports marketing is the “most efficient tool” to reach
potential recruits, the sports industry said in a July 16 letter
to House leaders.  “As major companies and nonprofits know well, sports
marketing is a unique opportunity to reach young adults,” the
organizations wrote. “Given the success of the military’s use
of professional sports to reach out to the American people, we
encourage you to support the U.S. Armed Forces and enable them
to continue to have the same access to media and venues as world
leading businesses and nonprofits.”  The sponsorship debate came as the House works on
legislation that would provide $608.2 billion for the U.S.
military next year.  The bill number is  H.R. 5856 .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  