-- U.S. Corporate Borrowing Costs Fall To Record Below 4%
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-07-19T16:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/u-s-corporate-borrowing-costs-fall-to-record-below-4-.html
Yields on U.S. corporate bonds of
all ratings fell below 4 percent for the first time as  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis boosts demand for U.S. assets deemed safer
even with a slowing economic recovery.  Average borrowing costs for companies from  General Electric
Co. (GE)  to junk-rated  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  dropped yesterday to an
unprecedented 3.98 percent for investment- and speculative-grade
debt, from 4.02 percent on July 17, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Corporate & High Yield Master index.
The gauge was at 4.81 percent at year-end and 4.59 percent a
year ago, the index data show.  Yields are declining as European policy makers struggle to
resolve a more than two-year-old debt crisis that’s pulled Spain
and Greece into recession and as the  Federal Reserve  keeps its
benchmark  interest rate  near zero to boost economic growth that
increased at a 1.9 percent pace in the first quarter.  “The bond market is more focused on trying to find secure
assets that offer some value,” Jody Lurie, a corporate credit
analyst at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in
a telephone interview. Investors “want to make sure that
they’re protected against anything that’s going to happen in
Europe,” and dollar-denominated corporate debt offers an
alternative, she said.  The extra yield investors demand to own the bonds instead
of government securities has dropped 14 basis points this month
to 2.85 percentage points yesterday, the narrowest since May 10.  Average borrowing costs on U.S. investment-grade bonds fell
to a record low 3.096 percent yesterday, compared with 3.37
percent at the end of June, the index data show. High-yield
debt, rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower
than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s, is yielding 7.66 percent, the
least since May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in  New York  at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  