-- U.S. July Philadelphia Business Outlook Report (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-19T14:06:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/u-s-july-philadelphia-business-outlook-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Philadelphia area manufacturing activity from the  Federal
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Jul-12  Firms responding to the July Business Outlook Survey continued
to report weak business conditions. Although the survey’s
indicators for general activity, new orders, and shipments
improved from June, they remained negative this month,
suggesting overall declines in business.  Firms also reported
declines in employment this month and shorter work hours.  The
manufacturers reported near-steady input and output prices this
month. The survey’s indicators of activity over the next six
months remained positive but moderated somewhat from June.  Indicators Suggest Continued Decreases  The survey’s broadest measure of manufacturing conditions, the
diffusion index of current activity, increased from a reading of
-16.6 in June to -12.9. This marks the third consecutive
negative reading for the index. Nearly 32 percent of the firms
reported declines in activity this month, exceeding the 19
percent that reported increases. Indexes for new orders and
shipments remained negative but increased 12 and 8 points,
respectively.  Labor market conditions at the reporting firms deteriorated this
month. The current employment index decreased 10 points, to -
8.4, its second negative reading in three months. The percent of
firms reporting decreases in employment (18 percent) exceeded
the percent reporting increases (10 percent). Firms also
indicated fewer hours worked this month: The average workweek
index increased 2 points but posted its fourth consecutive
negative reading.  Price Indexes Reflect Steady Prices  Indexes for prices paid and prices received both increased
slightly from their readings in June but suggest near-steady
prices this month. The prices paid index, which turned negative
last month, increased from -2.8 to 3.7.  Sixty-five percent of
the firms reported steady input prices, and the 19 percent
reporting higher prices was nearly offset by the 15 percent
reporting declines. Firms also reported near-steady prices
received for their own products. While slightly more firms
reported an increase in product prices (13 percent) than
reported a decrease (11 percent), 76 percent reported steady
prices.  The prices received index rose from -6.9 to 1.6.  Six-Month Indicators Moderate  The future general activity index remained virtually unchanged
at 19.3 this month (see Chart 1). The percentage of firms ex-
pecting increases in activity over the next six months (37
percent) is significantly higher than the percentage expecting
de-creases (18 percent). The indexes for future new orders and
shipments remained positive but fell back notably, decreasing 12
and 19 points, respectively. The future employment index
declined 7 points, although the share of firms expecting to
increase employment still outnumbered those expecting to
decrease employment 2:1.  In special questions, firms were asked about recent demand for
their own goods and to characterize reasons for slowing.  The
percentage indicating that demand had decreased over the past
two months (37 percent) was higher than the percentage reporting
an increase (30 percent). Of those firms that experienced some
slowing, the most frequently cited reasons were increased
uncertainty about the economy (65 percent) and about future tax
rates and  government regulation  (52 percent).  Firms were also
asked to forecast production in the third quarter compared to
the second quarter.  The median and average forecasts call for
virtually flat to slight declines in levels of production during
the third quarter. Nearly 22 percent expect decreases of greater
than 4 percent; 12 percent expect increases greater than 4
percent.  Summary  The July Business Outlook Survey suggests that firms in the
regionï¿½s manufacturing sector are continuing to experience
declines in overall activity. More firms reported declines in
new orders, shipments, and employment than reported increases.
Prices, on balance, were near steady this month. The outlook
among reporting firms, while not as optimistic as last month,
suggests that firms believe that activity will rebound over the
next six months.  Special Questions (July 2012)  1. Over the past two months, how would you characterize the
demand for your manufactured products?  %       Subtotal  Increased significantly        4.1
Increased moderately          26.0  30.10%  No change                     21.9  Decreased moderately          34.2
Decreased significantly        2.7  36.90%  2. If you have experienced a recent slowing in growth in demand,
to what do you attribute the slowdown? (Choose all factors that
apply.)  %  Increased uncertainty about the economy            65 Increased
uncertainty about future tax rates or government regulations
52
Seasonal factors                                   39
A slowing in export demand                         22
The lack of federal government spending             9
The lack of state and local government spending     7
Cost factors and pricing associated with energy, commodities, or
transportation                                   7  3. What percentage change do you anticipate for production in
the third quarter over the second quarter?  %      Subtotal  Increase of more than 4%   12.3
Increase of 2-4%           16.4
Increase of 0-2%            6.8  35.50%  No change                  15.1  Decline of 0-2%            13.7
Decline of 2-4%            11.0
Decline of more than 4%    21.9  46.60%  Average: -0.5%, Median: 0  Notes: (1) Items may not add to 100 percent because of omission
by respondents. (2) All data are seasonally adjusted. (3)
Diffusion indexes represent the percentage of respondents
indicating an increase minus the percentage indicating a
decrease. (4) Survey data reflect information received through
July 17, 2012. 