-- U.S. Senate Democrats Drop Estate Tax Provision From Plan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-19T22:27:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/u-s-senate-democrats-said-to-drop-estate-tax-provision.html
Faced with possible dissent in their
party, U.S. Senate Democrats are dropping estate tax language
backed by President Barack Obama from their proposal to extend
most George W. Bush-era tax cuts through 2013.  Senate leaders plan to bring the tax measure to a vote next
week. The core of the plan would extend the Bush tax cuts
through 2013 for 98 percent of households while letting the tax
reductions expire for individuals’ income exceeding $200,000 and
married couples’ income of more than $250,000.  Some Senate Democrats had said they were undecided about
the measure because of the estate tax provision. Senator  Dick Durbin , an Illinois Democrat, said he hoped the decision to
leave that issue out of the bill would prevent defections.  Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, last week
expressed confidence about his ability to persuade a majority of
Senate lawmakers to support Obama’s plan.  “The majority leader wanted to focus on middle-class tax
relief, and he felt it was best to keep it focused on that
exclusively,” said Durbin, the second-ranking Senate Democrat.
He said his party is divided on the estate tax.  While 60 of the Senate’s 100 votes may be required to pass
the tax-cut bill, Democrats are trying to show majority support
for the measure so they can blame Republicans for using Senate
procedures to block it.  53 Senate Votes  Democrats control 53 Senate votes, and two of those
lawmakers --Virginia Democrat  Jim Webb  and Connecticut
independent  Joe Lieberman  -- have said they will vote against
the Obama tax plan.  In interviews this week, Democrats Mark Pryor of Arkansas
and  Kay Hagan  of  North Carolina  said they were undecided on
Reid’s plan at least in part because of the estate tax proposal.  “I would prefer to leave the estate tax as is,” Pryor
said yesterday in an interview.  “I’m personally concerned about the estate tax,” Hagan
said today, adding that protecting the middle class from tax
increases was her priority.  Democrats  Ben Nelson  of Nebraska and  Joe Manchin  of West
Virginia said today they too were undecided on Reid’s bill.  Nelson said he would prefer to extend all of the expiring
tax cuts and could consider a $1 million threshold. He hasn’t
expressed an opinion about the $200,000 and $250,000 cutoffs.  “I’m looking at it very carefully, because we certainly
want to extend as many tax cuts as we can,” Nelson said. He
questioned Democratic leaders’ contention that Congress should
act now on what members can agree on and work on the other
issues later. “It’s an argument that very often becomes an
argument for then doing nothing later,” Nelson said.  Per-Person Exclusion  Under current law, the estate tax has a $5.12 million per-
person exclusion and a 35 percent top rate. The earlier version
of the Democratic plan had a $3.5 million per-person exclusion
and a 45 percent top rate, the parameters that were in effect in
2009.  If Congress does nothing, in 2013 the exclusion would drop
to $1 million and the top rate would rise to 55 percent. That
may open Democrats to criticism that they favor raising estate
taxes for people with as little as $1 million in assets.  The estate tax has often divided Democrats, some of whom
support Republican proposals for higher exclusions and lower
rates.  In April 2009, 10 Democrats supported the provision that
ultimately took effect for 2011 and 2012 that Republicans want
to extend. They included eight current senators:  Maria Cantwell 
and  Patty Murray  of Washington,  Max Baucus  and Jon Tester of
Montana, Pryor, Ben Nelson,  Bill Nelson  of Florida and  Mary Landrieu  of Louisiana.  $40.5 Billion  If Congress doesn’t act on the estate tax, 52,500 taxable
estates would pay $40.5 billion in taxes in 2013, according to
the Tax Policy Center, a nonpartisan research group in
Washington.  With the Republican plan, 4,000 taxable estates would pay
$13.5 billion, according to the center. The Democratic plan
eliminated from the latest version of the bill would have
generated more than $21 billion in taxes from more than 7,000
estates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in  Washington  at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  