-- Amonix Closes U.S.-Backed Solar-Panel Facility in Nevada
-- B y   J u s t i n   D o o m
-- 2012-07-19T18:23:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/u-s-backed-amonix-solar-plant-closes-las-vegas-review-journal.html
Amonix Inc., a closely held maker of
solar panels that qualified for $21.5 million in federal
subsidies, closed its 214,000-square-foot plant in  Nevada .  The company, based in Seal Beach,  California , plans to
restructure its operations and will vacate the factory by early
August, according to an e-mailed statement today. It also has a
research lab in Torrance, California, and an office in
Singapore, according to its  website .  Amonix said the decision to close the plant was based on
“challenging” pricing for solar panels and low demand for its
concentrated photovoltaic systems, according to the statement.  “We looked at several options and were really hoping that
we could keep the North Las Vegas manufacturing facility, but it
is not economically possible,” the company said.  Amonix was offered a U.S. tax credit of $5.9 million and
received a $15.6 million grant from the U.S. Energy Department
in  2007 , according to Jen Stutsman, an agency spokeswoman. It
didn’t receive a loan guarantee under the program that backed
the failed solar manufacturers Solyndra LLC and Abound Solar
Inc.  “The global solar industry is facing significant
challenges,” Stutsman said today in an e-mail. “While today’s
news is disappointing, the  United States  simply can’t afford to
cede America’s role in the growing, highly competitive solar
energy industry.”  Unused Credit  Amonix “has not realized taxable income to utilize” the
$5.9 tax million credit it was offered, the company said.
Concentrated photovoltaic systems use lenses that focus sunlight
on solar cells to boost efficiency.  “Amonix plans to restructure its operations to build a
successful long-term future,”  Rhone Resch , chief executive
officer of the Solar Energy Industries Association, said today
in an e-mailed statement. “Amonix has been supported with great
hope by an array of private investors as well as Republican and
Democratic policy makers, who all understand our need to invest
in this growing industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Justin Doom in  New York  at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  