-- Huawei’s Cheap Deals Pressure Samsung in Smartphone Arena
-- B y   P e t e r   B u r r o w s
-- 2012-07-19T01:41:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/huawei-s-cheap-deals-pressure-samsung-in-smartphone-arena.html
Huawei Technologies Co., a Chinese
company with little name recognition in the U.S., is poised to
challenge  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and eventually even  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
in the $219.1 billion market for smartphones. Its strategy:
inexpensive handsets.  Already  China ’s largest telephone- network equipment  maker,
closely held Huawei probably leapfrogged  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  and  Research
In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  in the second quarter to become the world’s
third-biggest seller of smartphones, said Horace Dediu, founder
of equity-research firm Asymco.  Huawei, based in Shenzhen, China, entered the mobile-phone
market in the past decade by selling bare-bones handsets to
price-sensitive buyers in emerging economies. Now, as it focuses
on models with better screens and faster chips, Huawei will
probably widen its lead over smaller manufacturers and siphon
users away from Samsung, Dediu said.  “They’re the guys that don’t get a lot of respect, because
they’re not big in the U.S.,” said Dediu, who’s based in
Helsinki. “Samsung ought to be looking over its shoulder.”  While Huawei trails Apple and Samsung by a wide margin,
it’s working to narrow the gap by selling handsets through U.S.
carriers  AT&T (T)  Inc. and T-Mobile USA Inc. AT&T began selling
Huawei’s Impulse smartphone in September for $30. Deutsche
Telekom AG’s U.S. unit said on July 11 that Huawei would make
two models in its MyTouch line of handsets.  Huawei’s devices carry many of the features found on more
expensive smartphones and provide access to the compendium of
apps available at Google Inc.’s  online store .  ‘Affordable Smartphones’  Carriers benefit from pairing with Huawei because low phone
prices help them win bargain-hunting shoppers, and because
Huawei has historically been willing to support their own
marketing efforts rather than pushing its own brand.  “We essentially made the market for affordable
smartphones,”  Bill Plummer , a U.S. spokesman for Huawei, said
in an interview. “We’re in a good position, because we’ve
established ourselves as a trusted partner to carriers.”  Huawei’s annual smartphone sales are expected to triple to
60 million units this year, compared with 134.1 million for
Apple and 207.2 million for Samsung, according to Dediu.  Huawei owes much of its success to Google’s Android
software for smartphones, said Mike Morgan, an analyst at  ABI
Research . While rivals such as Samsung,  HTC Corp. (2498)  and Google’s
Motorola Mobility Holdings focused on adding their own software
and features to command higher prices, “Huawei just slapped
Android on some hardware and it shipped it,” Morgan said.  That’s made Huawei a leader in sales of sub-$200
smartphones, a corner of the market that Morgan expects to grow
at a faster pace in the coming years, taking share from higher
end devices in the range of $200 to $400.  Huawei’s Competition  Wireless carriers typically pay manufacturers full price
for the phones and sell them more cheaply to customers in
exchange for multiyear-contract commitments.  High-end devices, such as the iPhone and Samsung’s Galaxy
line, which cost the carrier more than $400, are expected to
hold steady, at about a quarter of the market. The market for
mid-tier handsets will drop, Morgan said.  Succeeding in smart phones isn’t optional for Huawei if it
wants to remain a fast-growing company. Founded in 1987 to sell
telecommunications gear to China’s phone companies, it grew that
business to $18 billion in fiscal 2010.  Huawei has been competing against  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) ,  Ericsson
AB (ERICB)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in the market for telecommunications
gear and Internet switches and routers during the past decade.  Cisco sued Huawei in 2003 for copying software and
infringing patents. That lawsuit was settled in 2004 after
Huawei agreed to stop selling some products and alter some
designs.  U.S. Hurdles  Concerns about the company’s intellectual-property
practices and ties to the Chinese government have hurt its
ability to sell sophisticated network equipment to U.S.
carriers, said Jeff Heynen, an analyst at Infonetics Research.
While buying smartphones carries a lower security threat,
questions over Huawei’s reputation create an added obstacle to
its campaign to gain U.S. market share.  Huawei’s carrier-equipment business is under pressure as
Chinese carriers rein in spending, said Simon Leopold, an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates Inc.  “Huawei has experienced a lot of slowing in its core
networking business,” Leopold said. “They’ve made the easy
gains there, and handsets are the next logical front.”  While Huawei is poised to take share from weaker rivals, 
catching No. 2 U.S. player Samsung will be more difficult. 
Although both have adopted Android as the smartphone software,
Samsung has a cost advantage because it makes many of the 
screens, chips and other components used in its phones. 
Samsung also has bolstered its brand, partly with advanced 
features, such as face recognition and motion-sensing tools.  No Jetpacks  Samsung said on June 25 that its latest flagship phone, the
Galaxy S III, will help mobile earnings surpass the first-
quarter record with sales of more than 10 million units by the
end of July since it went on sale in May.  Even with its size and market-leading share of 30 percent
of global smartphone sales, Samsung remains vulnerable because
it doesn’t control a software platform of its own, like Apple,
Google or Micr osoft Corp., sa id Dediu. That limits its ability
to differentiate product or lock-in customers, especially versus
a lower-cost competitor.  “The story of the last year has been the rise of
Samsung,” Dediu said. “But I’ve never felt they had a
strategically strong position.”  Because of lower labor and marketing costs and booming
smartphone sales in China, Huawei can make money when rivals
such as Nokia and RIM suffer losses as they invest to maintain
brands and woo application developers.  “They’re coming at the smartphone business with a low-cost
model,” said ABI’s Morgan. While higher-cost rivals develop
products to command a premium to cover their investments, Huawei
can do just fine selling good-enough products at lower prices.  “Their devices don’t have to have jetpacks to do 90
percent of what most people need,” Morgan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Burrows in  San Francisco  at 
 pburrows@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  