-- UBS Americas Chairman Wolf Leaves to Start Advisory Firm
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-07-19T21:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/ubs-americas-chairman-wolf-leaves-to-start-advisory-firm.html
Robert Wolf , the chairman of  UBS
AG (UBSN) ’s Americas unit and one of Wall Street’s top supporters of
U.S. President  Barack Obama , is leaving the Swiss bank after 18
years to start an advisory firm.  Wolf, 50, will continue to work on Zurich-based  UBS (UBS) ’s
current mandates and on generating new bank business from his
company,  32 Advisors LLC , according to an employee memo, a copy
of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. At UBS, Switzerland’s
largest lender, he has served as president and chief operating
officer of the investment bank and as head of fixed income,
among other roles.  Wolf, who joined UBS in 1994 after 10 years at Salomon
Brothers in fixed-income sales and trading, wrote in the memo
that he’s “pleased to remain engaged with UBS and continue
contributing to the company’s growth and progress.” His
departure was reported earlier today by the Wall Street Journal.  UBS was shaken by the discovery of a $2.3 billion loss from
unauthorized trading in September, which resulted in the
departure of Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel . The firm’s
new CEO,  Sergio Ermotti , is shrinking UBS’s investment bank by
almost half as stricter capital requirements and Europe’s debt
crisis put pressure on profit.  Obama Fundraiser  The bank has also faced key departures. Matthew Koder left
as head of global capital markets to join Bank of America Corp.
in March. Cary Kochman, co-head of mergers and acquisitions, and
Kevin Cox, head of industrials, left to join New York-based
Citigroup Inc. last year. London-based Pat Guerin and Liam
Beere, co-heads of European M&A, left to join Citigroup and
Moelis & Co., respectively.  Wolf is among President Barack Obama’s top Wall Street
donors, signing on during his 2008 primary race against then-
Senator  Hillary Clinton . The website for Obama’s 2012 campaign
lists Wolf as having raised more than $500,000 for the
president’s re-election effort.  He’s played golf with Obama in Martha’s Vineyard,
Massachusetts, basketball in Washington and has been a guest at
White House social events from state dinners to the president’s
50th birthday party last year.  He’s also played a central role in Obama’s outreach to the
business community, attending jobs summits and serving as a
member of Obama’s initial jobs council that was headed by former
Federal Reserve Chairman Paul Volcker and the current panel led
by General Electric Co. CEO  Jeffrey Immelt .  “Being that Wall Street friend of the president isn’t so
easy,” Wolf said in a Jan. 17 interview on Bloomberg
Television, when asked about the president’s proposals to
increase taxes on  capital gains  and carried interest. “Since
1776, after every war, there’s taxes,” he said. “We’ve had a
10-year war.”  Wolf received a bachelor’s degree from the University of
Pennsylvania in 1984.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  