-- Mukherjee Is Favorite as India Lawmakers Vote for Next President
-- B y   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2012-07-19T04:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/mukherjee-is-favorite-as-india-lawmakers-vote-for-next-president.html
Lawmakers in  India  vote today for a
new president with former finance minister  Pranab Mukherjee  set
to be elected head of state, ending a four-decade political
career with elevation to what is mostly a ceremonial role.  Mukherjee, 76, is pitted against Purno A. Sangma, 64, a
former speaker of the lower house of parliament. Counting of
ballots will take place July 22. The president is chosen by
legislators from the states and both houses of the federal
assembly. Voting began at 10 a.m. and ends at 5 p.m.  The ruling United Progressive Alliance of Prime Minister
 Manmohan Singh  is backing Mukherjee, as are regional groups
including the Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samaj Party which
dominate politics in India’s most populous state,  Uttar Pradesh .
Sangma is supported by the main opposition  Bharatiya Janata
Party  and most of its allies.  Mukherjee’s victory “is almost certain as he enjoys the
support of at least 65 percent of the electoral college,” said
Satish Misra, an analyst at the New Delhi-based Observer
Research Foundation. The  president  is the supreme commander of
the armed forces, oversees the creation of a government in the
event of a hung parliament and can in rare circumstances send
some bills back to lawmakers for reconsideration. The next
general election is due by early 2014.  The elevation of Mukherjee would be a “morale booster for
Congress” following two years during which it has been dogged
by allegations of corruption, most notably over a 2008 sale of
mobile-phone licenses, and defeated in polls for key regional
assemblies, said Misra.  Troubleshooter  Mukherjee has been the Congress party’s troubleshooter in
managing conflicts with allies including  Mamata Banerjee , leader
of Trinamool Congress, who has repeatedly blocked Singh’s
attempts to open up the economy to more foreign investment. An
isolated Banerjee agreed to support Mukherjee’s candidature July
17 after opposing it for weeks.  Singh, an economist who as finance minister in the 1990s
scripted India’s market opening, has taken charge of the
portfolio as economic growth has slowed to a nine-year low.  Married with two sons and a daughter, Mukherjee, who was a
teacher and journalist before entering politics, has had stints
in charge of India’s foreign, defense, commerce and steel
ministries. Singh was serving as governor of the  Reserve Bank of
India  when Mukherjee ran a closed economy as finance minister
from 1982 to 1984.  The winner of the presidential vote will succeed President
Pratibha Devisingh Patil, whose five-year term ends July 24.
Elections for the post of vice president will be held on Aug. 7.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bibhudatta Pradhan in  New Delhi  at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  