-- Human Genes as Company Property Tested by Myriad Patent Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2012-07-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/human-genes-as-company-property-tested-by-myriad-patent-case.html
As scientists successfully decode
and isolate human DNA in the race for new drugs, the ability to
protect and profit from what they find has yet to be mapped.  A federal appeals court is poised to tie that loose end
when it hears arguments tomorrow on whether it should be legal
to obtain U.S. patents on genetic material and on methods of
using that DNA for medical diagnoses and treatments.  Myriad
Genetics Inc. (MYGN)  has already built a business around the practice,
part of an industry that has staked a claim to as much as 20
percent of known human protein-coding genes.  Madeleine Ball, a Harvard University geneticist, said
entire regions of the human genome are at risk of becoming
inaccessible to anyone who can’t afford to pay for patent
licenses, stifling the information-sharing that’s vital to
scientific progress. For personalized medicine companies like
Optimal Medicine Ltd., the patents are about protecting billions
of dollars invested in years of research.  “This isn’t three guys getting together in a garage,”
Optimal founder Robert N. McBurney said in a phone interview.
“It’s an industry that absolutely depends on intellectual
property to underpin the work that develops from research.”  Both sides will be watching to see where the line is drawn.
The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit sided with
Salt Lake City-based Myriad last year in saying that isolated
DNA -- where unneeded information is stripped out of genetic
strands -- is eligible for patent protection.  Supreme Battle  Scientific groups appealed to the  Supreme Court , which in
March determined in a separate case that there should be some
limits on patents for diagnostic tests using genetic material.
The high court ordered the Federal Circuit to reconsider the
Myriad dispute in light of that decision.  The high court ruling was so sweeping and jumbled that the
lower court may stand by its original position, said Kathleen Williams, a lawyer with Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP in  Boston ,
whose clients include McBurney.  “The Federal Circuit is more likely than not to go head-
to-head with the Supreme Court on this issue” of what can be
patented, Williams said in a telephone interview.  Aspects of seven Myriad patents were being challenged by
the American Society of Human Genetics, the  American Medical
Association  and other scientific groups. They argue that
isolated DNA is the same thing as what is in the human body. The
Supreme Court in March said that patents cannot be obtained on
things that prevent others from the use of a natural law.  God’s Creation  “Patents are always a double-edged sword -- they benefit
and harm society,” said Daniel Ravicher, president of the
Public Patent Foundation in  New York , which, along with the
 American Civil Liberties Union , is representing the researchers
challenging Myriad’s patents. “The question is, do they
foreclose the storehouse of knowledge that God gave us?”  Gene databases and technology to analyze them are being
pursued by Myriad and other companies as the keys to future
medical discovery, as well as new methods of agriculture and
industrial processes. Annual U.S. spending on medical DNA
testing will rise to $25 billion in the next decade from $5
billion in 2010, according to  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the
biggest for-profit health insurer in the nation.  Myriad, which holds more than two dozen patents for a
genetic test that indicates a hereditary risk of breast and
ovarian cancers, reported $363 million in revenue in the first
nine months of the year. Myriad’s BRACAnalysis genetic cancer
test accounted for 81 percent of total revenue in its fiscal
third quarter ended March 31, according to a company statement
from May.  Cancer Tests  “If the patents are upheld, we might be in violation,”
said Ball, who is working on the Personal  Genome Project , a
Harvard effort to put the full DNA sequences of individuals,
along with their medical records, in the public sphere to speed
genetic research. “Patent holders might not choose to enforce
against us, but it would be more reassuring if the genes weren’t
patented in the first place.”  DNA sequencing machines from San Diego-based  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) 
and Carlsbad, California-based  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE)  that
analyze an entire human genome in days are spurring wider
interest in the technology’s medical applications, such as
predicting cancer risk. Increasing numbers of medical centers in
the U.S. -- in Boston,  Milwaukee  and  Kansas City  -- are offering
medical diagnostic services that look at the entire human
genome, including patented regions.  Genomic Health Inc. (GHDX)  is making tests to determine the
likelihood of recurrence of  breast cancer ,  Quest Diagnostics
Inc. (DGX) ’s Celera sells test kits for cystic fibrosis and  Alnylam
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY)  is developing a treatment for a rare
genetic disorder that causes a harmful accumulation of protein
in the heart, nervous system and gastrointestinal tract.  2,800 Patents  “The patent office has almost 2,800 patents out there on
isolated DNA,” Williams, the Edwards Wildman patent lawyer,
said. “That’s considerable pressure in having consistency in
what they do.”  While a 2005 study in the journal Science estimated that
about 20 percent of known human protein-coding genes had been
patented, other researchers have said that the portion under
legal control is probably much smaller. Whatever the correct
percentage, doctors who sequence genes may still trip over
restricted areas.  Ravicher said the Association for Molecular Pathology and
other researchers aren’t challenging every patent claim Myriad
owns, including ones that cover the use of the isolated DNA with
something else to come up with a new product. He said the group
only wants to curb some of the claims on isolated DNA.  Patent Exclusivity  The  Biotechnology Industry Organization  supports Myriad,
saying the patent protection is key to funding more research
into personalizing medicine.  Protection of valid patents on inventions is vital to the
biotechnology industry, said Dan Vorhaus, a lawyer who
specializes in genetic issues for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based  Robinson Bradshaw & Hinson . Exclusivity also encourages
companies like Myriad to invest in their products and related
services without worrying that their advances will be quickly
duplicated by competitors, he said.  In that vein, Myriad has worked to increase its
understanding of the health implications of mutations in breast
cancer genes, he said.  “They’ve been working this patch for more than two
decades,” Vorhaus said. “They’ve acquired a unique and
valuable set of data, and they did this -- and were able to do
this -- because of the patent exclusivity they have.”  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad,
10-1406,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit
( Washington ). The lower court case is Association for Molecular
Pathology v. U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office , 09cv4515, U.S.
District Court for the District of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  