-- Syria Rebels Fight for Control of Border Crossings
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r   a n d   D a n a   E l   B a l t a j i
-- 2012-07-20T11:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/un-fails-on-syria-as-rebel-border-push-provokes-assad-ire.html
Syrian rebels fought for control of
some of the country’s border crossings as the government held
funerals in the capital for top security officials killed in a
bomb attack two days ago.  At the  United Nations  in  New York ,  Russia  and  China  blocked
a proposal to sanction President Bashar al-Assad’s government. A
Russian diplomat said Assad has accepted the need to cede power
in a “civilized manner.”  Opposition fighters won control of three border crossings
with neighboring Turkey and one with Iraq, Al Arabiya television
reported. Rebels and government troops clashed in Damascus for a
fifth day yesterday. State television said today that security
forces have “purged” the al-Midan district of the capital,
where some of the heaviest fighting took place, and showed
pictures of captured fighters.  The conflict in  Syria , which began in March last year with
protests against Assad, escalated this week when a bomb killed
four top security officials. The civil war is splitting the
country on increasingly sectarian lines, with a Sunni Muslim-led
opposition confronting a government whose top officials are
drawn from the Alawite sect, affiliated to Shiite Islam.  Security chief General Hisham Ikhtiar died as a result of
his injuries sustained in the bombing, state television reported
today. Funerals were held in Damascus for the other victims of
the July 18 blast: Assad’s brother-in-law, Assef Shawkat;
Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah and the vice president’s military
adviser, Hasan Turkmani, it said. They were the most senior
officials to die since the uprising began.  Syrians Flee  More than 30,000 Syrians fled to Lebanon via the Masnaa
border in the last 48 hours, with cars backed up for a kilometer
and Lebanese security officials waiving the usual paperwork
requirements, the Beirut-based  Daily Star  reported.  About 125,000 Syrians have left the country since the
conflict began, and as many as 500,000 people still in Syria
have been displaced from their homes, the U.S. State Department
said yesterday.  At least 180 people were killed yesterday by security
forces,  Al Jazeera  television reported, citing the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights .  Adnan al-Assadi, Iraq’s deputy interior minister, told Al
Jazeera that Iraqi border guards had witnessed the Free Syrian
Army take control of a border outpost, detain a Syrian army
lieutenant colonel, and then cut off his arms and legs.  Border Executions  “Then they executed 22 Syrian soldiers in front of the
eyes of Iraqi soldiers,” Assadi said. “If this situation
continues, we are going to close the entire border with Syria.”  The Western-drafted resolution at the UN Security Council
excluded military action such as the UN-authorized NATO air
strikes that helped to oust  Muammar Qaddafi  in Libya. It called
for measures such as an embargo on supplying arms to the Syrian
military and the freezing of assets.  U.S. officials criticized the veto by Russia and China, a
repeat of their earlier opposition to sanctions.  “It’s a mistake to prop up that regime as it comes to an
end,” President  Barack Obama ’s spokesman,  Jay Carney , told
reporters yesterday.  Susan Rice , the U.S. ambassador to the UN, told the
security council that the risk Assad may use chemical weapons
against the rebels “should be a concern for us all.”  Russian UN envoy Vitaly Churkin accused the U.S. of
“pushing its own geopolitical designs” in the region as it
seeks to curb  Iran’s nuclear program .  ‘All About Iran’  “It’s all about  Iran ,” Churkin told reporters yesterday.
“A major geopolitical battle is being fought on the fields of
Syria, and which has nothing to do with the Syrian people.”  In Paris, Russian Ambassador Alexander Orlov  told  Radio
France International that Assad accepts the need for his
eventual departure under an international agreement reached on
June 30 in Geneva that called for a political transition.
Syria’s Information Ministry said the suggestion that the
president was ready to depart was “baseless.”  The  Security Council  is due to vote today on a 30-day
extension of the UN monitoring mission in Syria, sent to observe
a cease-fire that has failed to halt the violence. The U.S. has
objected to keeping monitors in the country because they’ve been
unable to carry out the job they were given.  Rooftop Snipers  In Damascus, which until recently had been spared the worst
of the carnage experienced in cities such as Homs and Hama, the
military is deploying helicopters and heavy artillery against
the rebels. Snipers have taken up positions on rooftops on the
outskirts of the city, the  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights 
said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The escalation came after the bomb attack at the national
security headquarters.  Assad made his first appearance since the attack yesterday
when state television showed him, dressed in a dark blue suit
and tie, greeting the new defense minister and attending his
swearing-in. It wasn’t clear where the brief ceremony took
place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in  Beirut  at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net ;
Dana El Baltaji in Dubai at 
 delbaltaji@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 