-- Union Pacific Profit Tops Estimates as Auto Volumes Rise
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-07-19T12:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/union-pacific-profit-exceeds-estimates-as-auto-shipments-rise.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the biggest
North American railroad, posted second-quarter profit that
topped analysts’ estimates as automotive and chemical shipments
increased.  Net income  advanced 28 percent to $1 billion, or $2.10 a
share, from $785 million, or $1.59, a year earlier, the Omaha,
Nebraska-based company said today in a statement. The  average  of
26 estimates compiled by Bloomberg was $1.97.  Union Pacific benefited from gains of 15 percent in
automotive shipments and 12 percent in chemical cargoes, which
include material used in hydraulic fracturing for natural gas.
The railroad overcame a drop of 17 percent in volumes for coal,
its biggest freight category, amid low prices for natural gas.
Prices for gas have dropped because of the increased supply from
so-called fracking.  “It was a very, very strong quarter,” Brad Delco, a
 Little Rock , Arkansas-based analyst with Stephens Inc., said in
a phone interview. “Based on where their network is located
around the Gulf, they have one of the strongest chemical
networks and so combined low natural  gas prices  likely is
driving a lot of activity in the chemical business.”  “Volume growth across many of our market sectors offset
the 17 percent decline in coal volumes,” Chief Executive
Officer Jack Koraleski said in the statement. “The net result
was our best-ever quarter by nearly every financial measure.”  Sales gained  7.5 percent to $5.22 billion, in line with
analysts’ estimates. Revenue a year earlier was $4.86 billion.  Union Pacific climbed 2 percent to $120.98 at 8:46 a.m.,
before the start of regular trading in  New York . The shares
previously gained 12 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  