-- Union Pacific Rises Most Since March as Profit Tops $1 Billion
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-07-19T15:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/union-pacific-rises-most-since-march-as-profit-tops-1-billion.html
Union Pacific Corp. (UNP)  rose the most in
four months after the biggest North American railroad exceeded
$1 billion in quarterly profit for the first time, beating
analysts’ estimates on higher automotive and chemical shipments.  Union Pacific  gained  3.3 percent to $122.54 at 11:42 a.m.
in  New York  after earlier rising to $123.35, the biggest
intraday increase since March 15 and the highest price in
Bloomberg data dating to July 1980. The shares had risen 12
percent this year through yesterday.  Automotive shipments rose 15 percent while chemicals, which
include material used in hydraulic fracturing for natural gas,
increased 12 percent, the Omaha, Nebraska-based company said
today in a statement. That helped Union Pacific overcome a drop
of 17 percent in volumes for coal, its biggest freight category,
amid low prices for natural gas. Prices for gas have dropped
because of the increased supply from so-called fracking.  “It was a very, very strong quarter,” Brad Delco, a
 Little Rock , Arkansas-based analyst with Stephens Inc., said in
a telephone interview. “Based on where their network is located
around the Gulf, they have one of the strongest chemical
networks and so combined low natural  gas prices  likely is
driving a lot of activity in the chemical business.”  Net income  advanced 28 percent to $1 billion, or $2.10 a
share, from $785 million, or $1.59, a year earlier. The  average 
of 26 estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of $1.97 a
share.  Sales gained  7.5 percent to $5.22 billion, in line with
analysts’ estimates. Revenue a year earlier was $4.86 billion.  “The net result was our best-ever quarter by nearly every
financial measure,” Chief Executive Officer Jack Koraleski said
in the statement.  Growth in other markets should continue to offset the coal
decline and “we are forecasting volumes to be on the positive
side of the ledger for the full year,” Chief Financial Officer
Robert Knight said during a conference call today.  “The only thing you have to worry about with UNP right now
is that it is hitting all-time highs,”  Jason Seidl , a New York-
based analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co., said in a telephone
interview. “In the near term are some investors going to look to
take some profits with all of the uncertainty that’s out there?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net  