-- UnitedHealth CEO Says Profit Pressures Squeezing Plans
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-07-19T20:12:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/unitedhealth-profit-rises-as-medicare-plan-increase.html
UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest
U.S. health insurer, declined after Chief Executive Officer
Stephen Hemsley said profit margins are being squeezed in its
Medicare and Medicaid plans.  UnitedHealth, the first large health plan to report second-
quarter earnings this year, slipped 2.4 percent to $54.99 at the
close in New York.  While UnitedHealth raised its 2012 profit  forecast , the
company is still coping with “minimal” rate increases in
Medicare, the U.S.-backed plan for the elderly and disabled,
Hemsley told analysts today on a conference call. He said the
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based insurer may also consider pulling
out of Medicaid markets in states where rates “aren’t
sustainable.”  “There continues to be more downward than upward pressure
across the health-care landscape,” Hemsley said. “We expect
this environment to prevail for some time” given the country’s
“employment malaise and imminent regulatory changes.”  The insurer forecast full-year profit of $4.90 to $5 a
share in a statement before the call, raising guidance for the
second time this year. The company also said second-quarter  net
income  rose 5.5 percent to $1.34 billion, or $1.27 a share,
beating analyst estimates.  “There was enough discussion on the call about pricing and
budget pressures to spook some folks,” said  David Windley , a
Jefferies & Co. analyst in Nashville,  Tennessee , who reiterated
his buy rating today. “I don’t think it should be trading down,
but it is.”  Insurers’ Decline  The company led a 1.7 percent drop in the Standard & Poor’s
Managed Care  Index (S5MANH) , which consists of the top six health
insurers.  UnitedHealth said the percentage of premiums it spends on
customers’ care was little changed, continuing a trend that has
helped insurers as people have cut back on treatment amid the
weak economy. Enrollment in UnitedHealth medical plans rose 5
percent to 35.9 million, according to its statement.  The  enrollment  growth was led by Medicare plans, where
membership jumped 18 percent, and by the Medicaid business,
which increased by 11 percent, the company said. Medicaid is the
joint federal-state health plan for the poor.  “We anticipate continued steady growth next year as well,
because of the ongoing entrance into Medicare of millions of
 baby boomers  and our expanding market presence,” Hemsley said.  Competitive Pricing  Hemsley said some competitors in the commercial market were
offering lower prices on the assumption that medical costs would
stay depressed, an estimate UnitedHealth isn’t making. He also
said Medicaid rates in some areas were too low for companies to
pay their bills.  “If we see situations where we believe the state isn’t
prepared to sustain in a particular market, we will withdraw or
reposition,” the CEO said. “Discipline has to prevail.”  The company spent 81.3 percent of premiums it collected on
benefits, down from 81.4 percent a year earlier, results that
show “health-care utilization remains largely unchanged or
potentially even lower” compared with prior quarters, said
 Jason Gurda , a Leerink Swann & Co. analyst in New York.  Per-share earnings beat by 8 cents the $1.19 average of 19
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Second-quarter sales
climbed to $27.3 billion, from $25.2 billion a year earlier.  Sales also rose 4 percent at the company’s Optum division,
which provides consulting and data analysis for companies
seeking to lower health-care costs and manages pharmacy benefits
for employers. Optum revenue climbed to $7.3 billion, despite
increased costs related to expanding the drug-benefits business.  UnitedHealth shares have fallen 6.2 percent since the U.S.
Supreme Court upheld President  Barack Obama ’s health-care
overhaul on June 28. Indianapolis-based  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , the
second-biggest insurer, has declined 4.9 percent. It’s due to
report earnings on July 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net 
1000L US <Equity>
AET US <Equity>
AGP US <Equity>
CI US <Equity>
ESRX US <Equity>
HUM US <Equity>
UNH US <Equity>
WLP US <Equity> 