-- Turkey Central Bank Keeps Rates Unchanged to Counter Inflation
-- B y   B e n   H o l l a n d
-- 2012-07-19T11:00:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/turkey-central-bank-keeps-rates-unchanged-to-counter-inflation.html
Turkey ’s central bank kept both ends
of its interest-rate corridor unchanged, declining to loosen
policy in response to lower-than-expected inflation, signs of an
economic slowdown and plunging bond yields.  The bank in Ankara held its benchmark one-week repo rate at
5.75 percent, in line with the  forecasts  of all eight economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. It also kept the top rate for  overnight
loans  at 11.5 percent, upsetting predictions of a cut by banks
including Commerzbank AG and DZ Bank AG.  Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci varies rates within the
range on a daily basis to balance above-target inflation, a
slowing economy and a volatile currency. He has favored the
lower end in recent weeks, pushing bank funding costs to a
three-month low. Still, inflation at almost double the year-end
target limits the bank’s room for cuts.  “Caution now is clearly warranted in order not to be
forced to reverse course later,”  Tevfik Aksoy , chief economist
for the region at Morgan Stanley in  London , said in an e-mailed
report before today’s announcement. By easing now, the bank may
“give a false impression that it is giving up on the ambitious
CPI target.”  The bank’s year-end goal is 5 percent. Inflation
accelerated to 8.9 percent last month, though it stayed below
the expectations of all nine economists surveyed by Bloomberg,
helping extend a rally in the  bond market .  Inflation Risk Easing  Yields on benchmark  two-year lira debt  have dropped more
than 1.2 percentage points in the past month. The bonds were
trading to yield 7.8 percent at 11:30 a.m. in Istanbul today,
close to a 10-month low.  Basci said on July 6 that inflation risks are easing as oil
prices decline, and that the year-end figure may be closer to
the 5 percent target than previously expected.  Those comments, coupled with signs of a slowdown in
Turkey’s $800 billion economy, led some economists to predict
that the central bank will switch its focus to propping up
growth.  Commerzbank forecast a 1 percentage-point cut to the rate-
corridor ceiling. It said that diminished concerns about
inflation would make the central bank more relaxed about the
weakening in the lira that such a move would probably trigger.  The currency, the world’s worst performer in 2011, has
gained about 5 percent against the dollar this year. It traded
at 1.8036 at midday in Istanbul, little changed from yesterday.  Shrinking Output  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  aims for an expansion
of 4 percent in the economy this year, almost double the 2.3
percent predicted by the  International Monetary Fund .  Turkey’s main export markets in  Europe  have been hurt by
the debt crisis there. Auto production slumped 13 percent in
June from a year earlier and the central bank’s manufacturing
confidence index slid to a four-month low. Gross domestic
product  shrank  0.4 percent in the first quarter from the
previous one, the first contraction in three years.  Whatever the central bank decides today, in the longer term
“the direction of  interest rates  is to the south,” Istanbul-
based brokerage Tera said in an e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ben Holland  in Istanbul at 
 Bholland1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 