-- Turkey Yields Drop 4th Day on ‘Extra Tightening’ Policy Change
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-07-19T12:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/turkey-yields-drop-fourth-day-as-central-bank-meets-on-rates.html
Turkish bond  yields  declined for a
fourth day to the lowest since September after the central bank
omitted a reference to “extra tightening” in a statement it
released after leaving  interest rates  unchanged at a policy
meeting.  Yields on two-year benchmark debt fell four basis points,
or 0.04 percentage point, to 7.79 percent, the least since Sept.
9, extending this month’s decline to 68 basis points. The lira
weakened less than 0.1 percent to 1.8033 per dollar, the first
time in five days.  The bank held its benchmark one-week repo rate at 5.75
percent, in line with forecasts of all eight economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. It kept the overnight rate at 11.5 percent, while
increasing the proportion of lira reserves lenders keep with the
central bank in foreign exchange to 55 percent from 50 percent.
The change, effective from Aug. 3, may add $2.9 billion to
reserves and bring an additional 2.8 billion liras ($1.6
billion) to the market, a statement on the bank’s website said
today.  “The monetary policy committee has dropped” the reference
to “additional tightening compared to the previous release in
June, which is positive for the market,” Ibrahim Aksoy, an
economist at Seker Securities in Istanbul said in an e-mailed
note.  The bank added a phrase saying it would preserve
flexibility in monetary policy given uncertainty in the global
economy, supporting speculation of a rate cut later this year.  “We expect the Turkish central bank to ‘officially’ cut
the upper level of the interest rate corridor by 100 basis
points from 11.5 percent in the second half,” Aurelija Augulyte, an analyst at  Nordea Markets  in Copenhagen, said in an
e-mailed note.  The central bank varies its funding rate daily, maintaining
borrowing costs within a 5.75 percent to 11.5 percent interest-
rate corridor introduced last year to control  inflation and
reign in the current-account deficit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  