-- Verizon Profit Grows as It Adds More Users Than Estimated
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2012-07-19T20:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/verizon-profit-grows-as-it-adds-more-users-than-estimated.html
Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , the
second-largest U.S. phone company, reported a 19 percent gain in
profit after heftier mobile-phone bills helped make up for
sluggish growth of its land-line businesses.  Second-quarter net income rose to $4.29 billion from $3.6
billion a year earlier, the New York-based company said today in
a statement. Earnings per share attributable to Verizon was 64
cents. That matched the average estimate of analysts, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales grew 3.7 percent to $28.6
billion, also in line with estimates.  The shift to smartphones, which let users surf the Web and
watch videos, has helped boost the size of subscribers’ phone
bills. Still, Verizon’s corporate sales and its FiOS business,
which provides television and Internet access over fiber-optic
lines, didn’t fare as well, said Mike McCormack, an analyst with
Nomura Securities in  New York .  “The wireless side looks really good,” said McCormack,
who has the equivalent of a buy rating on Verizon. “FiOS TV and
Internet numbers were far below our expectations. And there was
significant weakness in global enterprise.”  Verizon’s stock fell 2.9 percent to close at $44.54 at in
New York.  The shares  have climbed 11 percent this year.  Wireless Users  Verizon Wireless  added 888,000 contract customers in the
quarter, compared with 1.3 million a year ago. While that
reflects an industrywide slowdown in growth, the number beat the
724,000 estimated by analysts. The profit margin on those
customers, excluding some items, climbed to a record 49 percent.  The average revenue per contract user rose 3.7 percent to a
record $56.13. Analysts predicted that the so-called postpaid
ARPU figure would be $55.82.  Verizon Wireless sold 5.9 million smartphones in the second
quarter, according to a company  presentation  today, down 6.3
percent from the first quarter. The decline in part is due to a
slowdown in the upgrade rate to 7 percent from 8 percent in the
first quarter as fewer subscribers traded in old phones for new
phones.  Of the smartphone total,  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Android-operated
devices accounted for 49 percent or 2.9 million, and  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
iPhones were 46 percent of the total, or 2.7 million. Most of
the 300,000 remaining smartphones were  Research In Motion (RIMM) 
BlackBerries.  Speedier Phones  Verizon Wireless said 50 percent of its monthly contract
customers have smartphones, up from 47 percent in the first
quarter. Verizon also expanded the availability of long-term
evolution, or LTE, a network standard that allows for speedier
phones.  Verizon Wireless has LTE service in 337 cities and plans to
cover more than 400 markets by year-end, according to a
statement yesterday. LTE devices increased to 12.2 percent of
total phones, plug-in wireless modems and tablets from 9.1
percent in the first quarter.  Last month, Verizon Wireless introduced a shared-data plan
offering customers various prices for data allocations to use on
as many as 10 smartphones and tablets. The push is to get people
to buy more devices and ultimately pay for more expensive data
plans.  As Verizon Wireless tries to capitalize on heavier data
users, it also has started to extract more money from renewing
customers. Starting April 22, it imposed a $30 upgrade fee on
all customers buying new smartphones.  AT&T Inc. (T) , its biggest
rival, charges $36 for upgrades, and  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  has an
$18 fee plus an additional $10 monthly smartphone charge.  Subsidy Expenses  These moves will help defray the phone subsidy costs that
cut into the carriers’ profit margins. For example, telephone
companies pay Apple an estimated $600 per iPhone and then offer
it to customers for $199.  Verizon co-owns Verizon Wireless, its mobile-phone carrier
unit, with the U.K. phone giant  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Vodafone’s investors have been waiting for Verizon Wireless
to issue them a dividend -- something that’s expected by the end
of the year.  Verizon Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo said today that
the dividend issue is not on the agenda for Verizon Wireless’s
board meeting next week, though a decision isn’t required until
year-end.  Land-Line Unit  Verizon added 120,000 FiOS TV customers, a 35 percent
decline from the 184,000 added a year earlier. New FiOS Internet
customers totaled 134,000, down 29 percent from the 189,000
added a year earlier.  Total revenue for the land-line business was $9.93 billion,
down 3.1 percent from $10.25 billion a year ago, because of flat
business spending in the U.S. and declining demand for network
services in  Europe , Shammo said in an phone interview.  “The weak spot for Verizon is in enterprise,” said
Nomura’s McCormack. “Verizon has European exposure, and
domestically they aren’t really seeing a pickup among companies
below the top tier. This affects revenue growth,” he said.  Capital spending  was $2.05 billion, compared with $3.57
billion in the first quarter and $2.67 billion a year ago.
Shammo told investors on an earnings call that total capital
spending would be flat to down from the $16.2 billion level in
2011.  Separately, Verizon’s two largest unions -- the
 Communications Workers of America  and the International
Brotherhood of Electrical Workers -- said they have requested a
federal mediator to resolve contract talks.  Rich Young , a
company spokesman, declined to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  