-- Vodacom to Boost Sales Contribution From Beyond South Africa
-- B y   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a
-- 2012-07-19T15:32:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/vodacom-to-boost-sales-contribution-from-outside-south-africa.html
Vodacom Group Ltd. (VOD) , the largest
provider of mobile services to  South Africans , plans to almost
double the share of revenue from other countries within four
years, according to Chief Executive Officer Pieter Uys.  “We’re running our African businesses much better than two
years ago,” Uys said in a phone interview from Johannesburg
today. “That is now paying off.”  Vodacom, 65 percent-owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , spent
37 percent more on capital investments in the year through March
to expand capacity on its networks. Sales from Tanzania, the
 Democratic Republic  of Congo,  Mozambique  and  Lesotho  should
increase to 30 percent of total revenue by 2016, from 18 percent
now, the CEO said.  The provider of wireless services said today that it
boosted customer numbers 29 percent to 50 million in the fiscal
first quarter even as smaller competitors tried to lure away
business in its home market by offering discounts. Sales
advanced 9.3 percent to 17 billion rand ($2 billion) in the
three months through June compared with a year earlier.  Vodacom  rose  2 percent to 91.84 rand, the biggest increase
in almost two months, at the close of trading in Johannesburg.  Vodacom has said it plans to maintain capital expenditure
at 11 percent to 13 percent of revenue for the next four years.
The strength of the network fends off competitors offering lower
prices, and will help the company grow outside its home market,
Uys said today.  Turnaround Success  “Over the last couple of years we’ve worked hard turning
around those businesses,” Uys said. “We’re increasing our
investments in those markets and growing.”  Vodacom intends to lead a doubling of mobile-phone
penetration in the Congo, where only 20 percent of people use
wireless devices, Uys said. The company is fighting a court-
enforced order to confiscate and sell its 51 percent stake in a
Kinshasa-based subsidiary. Vodacom increased its Congo customer
base by 47 percent in the last quarter from a year earlier, to
6.2 million users.  Vodacom and MTN Group Ltd. are facing price competition
from smaller operators such as Cell C (Pty) Ltd. and  Telkom SA
Ltd. (TKG) ’s 8ta mobile division that are using discounts to attract
customers.  The network’s “quality and capacity both set Vodacom apart
and give us the means to compete with targeted value
promotions,” Uys said today.  Discount Competition  Cell C, headed by a former Vodacom chief executive officer,
introduced low-cost voice packages in May in an attempt to boost
market share. Telkom’s 8ta, which started in 2010, said last
month that it more than tripled mobile-phone subscribers in the
year ended March 31 to 1.5 million customers. It plans to win 15
percent of the market by 2016.  “Those have not had an effect on our voice business” Uys
said today.  Vodacom said 15.7 million customers are actively using
data, a 43 percent increase from a year ago. Data sales
contributed 15.4 percent to total service revenue. The company
increased its M-Pesa money transfer customers by 121 percent to
3.6 million in Tanzania, it said.  Uys, who has worked at Vodacom since its founding in 1993,
announced July 5 that he will leave the company in March 2013.
Shameel Joosub, the CEO of Vodafone Spain, will become co-CEO
this September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 sikonathim@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  