-- Walgreen Gains After Renewing Pact With Express Scripts
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-07-19T20:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/walgreen-reaches-express-scripts-deal-ending-dispute-1-.html
Walgreen Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S.
drugstore chain, surged the most since 2008 after renewing a
contract to provide  Express Scripts  Inc. customers with
prescriptions, ending a dispute that contributed to an 11
percent decline in the retailer’s quarterly profit.  Walgreen, based in Deerfield,  Illinois ,  surged  12 percent
to $34.62 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  for the biggest gain since
Oct. 28, 2008. Express Scripts  rose  1.9 percent to $58.76.  Walgreen will become part of the network of pharmacies
available to Express Scripts clients as of Sept. 15, the
companies said today in a statement. Terms weren’t disclosed.  The agreement ends a standoff that centered on
reimbursement rates and caused Walgreen to lose customers to  CVS
Caremark Corp. (CVS) ,  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other drugstore rivals.
The contract with Express Scripts, which ended on Dec. 31, had
generated $5.3 billion in annual  sales  for Walgreen.  The pact “removes significant overhang for Walgreen,”
 Ross Muken , an analyst at International Strategy & Investment
Group LLC in New York, wrote today in a note. He rates the
shares as underweight, equivalent to a sell recommendation.  Rival drugstore chains CVS  fel l 6.5 percent to $45.43 and
 Rite Aid Corp. (RAD)   declined  6.3 percent to $1.20. Walgreen shares
have slumped 20 percent from June 21, 2011, when it announced it
didn’t plan to renew its contract with St. Louis-based Express
Scripts.  Impact on CVS  CVS said today in a statement that it expects to boost
profit by about 5 cents a share in the third and fourth quarters
from the impasse between Walgreen and Express Scripts. It
anticipates retaining at least half of the business taken from
Walgreen in the fourth quarter.  CVS, based in Woonsocket,  Rhode Island , raised its full-
year earnings forecast in May and projected a benefit of as much
as 4 cents a share in the second quarter from the dispute.  The revenue generated from Express Scripts represented
about 7.3 percent of Walgreen’s $72.2 billion in  sales  in fiscal
2011.  Express Scripts manages pharmacy benefit programs for
private employers, unions and government health plans. The
dispute revolved around reimbursement rates for 88 million
prescriptions, or 10 percent of Walgreen’s pharmacy business.
Wal-Mart, CVS and Rite Aid had stepped up marketing to grab
Walgreen’s prescription customers amid the impasse.  Earlier this month, Walgreen agreed to buy the owner of the
USA Drug chain for about $438 million to add stores in the
southern U.S. In June, Walgreen entered into a pact to purchase
a 45 percent stake in Alliance Boots GmbH for $6.7 billion to
create a global chain of pharmacies. Alliance is the U.K.’s
largest drugstore-chain company.  Walgreen last week named retired  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  Chief
Executive Officer James Skinner as nonexecutive chairman,
replacing Al McNally as part of the board’s rotation of
directors. Skinner, 67, has served as a Walgreen director since
2005.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Callan at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  