-- Weakest Monsoon Since 2009 to Shrink India Rice Harvest
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2012-07-20T11:23:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/weakest-monsoon-since-2009-to-shrink-india-rice-harvest.html
The rice harvest in  India , the
world’s second-biggest producer, is set to drop from an all-time
high as the weakest monsoon in three years slows planting,
potentially boosting global prices. Futures climbed for the
first time in four days.  “It will be difficult to match last year’s record rice
production,” said Samarendu Mohanty, a senior economist at the
 International Rice Research Institute  in  Manila . Output was
104.3 million tons in the year ended June 30.  A 22 percent shortfall in monsoon rains delayed sowing of
crops from rice to cotton, stoking a rally in commodity prices
and threatening to accelerate India’s inflation that exceeded 7
percent for a fifth straight month in June. Dry weather from the
U.S. to  Australia  has parched fields, pushing up corn, wheat and
soybean prices on concern global supplies will be curbed. Costly
rice, staple for half the world, may increase global food prices
forecast by the  United Nations  to advance this month.  “The whole grains complex of wheat, corns, soybeans are
forcing rice prices higher as well,” said  Jonathan Barratt , the
chief executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-
markets newsletter in Sydney. “Indian production is very
important for the market.”  Rice planting in India dropped 10 percent to 14.5 million
hectares (35.8 million acres) this year from 16.1 million
hectares a year earlier, the farm ministry said today. The
country is estimated to export 8 million tons of rice in
2011-2012, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture ,
accounting for about 25 percent of the global trade.  FAO Forecast  World  grain production  will be lower in 2012 than expected
a month ago, the United Nations’ Food & Agriculture Organization
said July 5. Farmers across the world will harvest 2.4 billion
tons of grain this year, 23 million tons less than forecast on
June 7, it said. A drop in the Indian harvest “will have an
impact on global prices” this year, Mohanty said in an e-mail.  Rice for September delivery rose 1 percent to $15.65 per
100 pounds on the Chicago Board of Trade by 4:50 p.m. in Mumbai.
Futures, which reached a two-month high of $15.765 on July 16,
have advanced 5.3 percent this year.  A smaller Indian crop and potential curbs on exports may
help  Thailand , the world’s biggest shipper, boost sales, rice
institute’s Mohanty said.  Thailand’s government has bought 9.5 million tons of
unmilled rice from farmers between March 1 and July 9 under a
state purchase program, the ministry of commerce said July 10.  Export Review  India will review its farm-good export rules after 15 days
and consider setting limits on food crops that traders can
stockpile to check a rally in prices of oilseeds and grain, Food
Minister K.V. Thomas said July 18.  “With the monsoon playing hide and seek, it is a challenge
for our farmers and scientists to maintain the food-grain output
achieved in last two years,” Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said
July 16 in  New Delhi . The country won’t ban exports of rice and
wheat as it has ample stockpiles, he said.  Monsoon, which accounts for more than 70 percent of India’s
annual rainfall, is the worst since 2009 when showers were 22
percent less than a 50-year average. Rainfall in July, the
wettest month in the June-September rainy season, may miss a
June forecast for a normal rain, L.S. Rathore, director general
of the  India Meteorological Department , said July 16.  Food-grain production reached a record 257.44 million tons
in the year ended June 30 after a second year of normal rains
boosted harvests, the farm ministry said July 17. That prompted
the government to lift curbs on exports of the grains last year.
Non-basmati shipments totaled 5.25 million tons since September,
according to the food ministry.  ‘Happy Situation’  State reserves of rice are more than double the amount
required to run welfare programs and emergencies and the
government should take advantage of the price-rally to boost
exports, said  Atul Chaturvedi , chief executive of Adani Wilmar
Ltd. Rice inventory was 30.7 million tons, compared with 26.9
million tons a year earlier, government data showed.  “In this scenario of rising prices, India is actually in a
happy situation,” Chaturvedi said. “India should sell more
rice and wheat in the global market to benefit from the rally in
prices. The government should not ban exports.”  More than 235 million farmers depend on the monsoon for
crops such as rice, peanuts, soybean and cotton. Sowing of
monsoon crops begins in June and harvesting starts in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  