-- Wealthy Philanthropist Goes Bust, Nora Flirts: U.K. Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-07-19T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/wealthy-philanthropist-goes-bust-nora-flirts-u-k-stage.html
A man showers his banker friend with
gifts. Later, he requests a loan from him. “This is no time to
lend money,” says the shocked banker.  “Timon of  Athens ,” by Shakespeare and Thomas Middleton,
was written 400 years ago. It feels like it was penned now.  In a lavish production at the  National Theatre  in  London ,
director  Nicholas Hytner  updates the action to contemporary
London. Wealthy philanthropist Timon (Simon Russell Beale) gives
extravagant banquets and entertainments. His many friends lap up
his luxurious hospitality.  When Timon finds that his funds are exhausted he turns to
his circle for help. Lucullus works in a sleek banking office
with a view of the HSBC tower (sets by Tim Hatley). Politician
Sempronia is in the Palace of Westminster. Ventidius is a young
playboy in a trendy club. One by one they rebuff him.  Timon is reduced to living on the streets, wheeling his few
possessions in a shopping cart. When he unexpectedly finds a
stack of gold, he gives the money to the violent class-activist
Alcibiades to wreak revenge against his fairweather friends.
“Let not thy sword skip one,” says Timon.  Edgy Parable  As a parable of the cost to be paid for a society living
beyond its means, it couldn’t be more timely. In making
Alcibiades part of the “Occupy London” group of tent dwellers
who recently camped on the steps of  St. Paul’s Cathedral , Hytner
also taps into a very contemporary fear about London’s
stability. It feels edgy, energetic and real.  The director works wonders with the rarely performed play,
which is an oddity in the Shakespeare canon. It’s a schematic
piece, more concerned with a pattern of ideas than psychology,
and there are some loose plot strands.  The director makes plenty of sensible cuts, changes the
gender of several roles (Flavius becomes “Flavia,” Sempronius
is “Sempronia” and so on), and keeps the action swift and
clear.  In Beale, he’s blessed with a superb actor who makes Timon
a complex and sympathetic figure. Timon loves to be surrounded
by people, and yet shrinks and cringes when hugged. Beale makes
it clear that Timon’s gifts are a way of maintaining the human
contact he both craves and fears.  Pained Soul  Beale’s performance stops the production feeling like a
parable about politicians’ greed and bankers’ corruption. The
cynic Apemantus says to Timon, “The middle of humanity thou
never knewest, but the extremity of both ends.” Beale’s acting,
now vulnerable, now bitter, shows a soul in torment.  The rest of the large cast is excellent, especially Tom
Robertson as the preening young trustafarian Ventidius, and Tim
Hatley’s cool revolving sets are a visual feast. The current
lending crisis has never looked so good. Rating: ****.  At the  Young Vic , Carrie Cracknell’s production of Ibsen’s
“A Doll’s House” emphasizes the feminist aspects of the piece.  The play tells of Nora (Hattie Morahan), a loving wife and
mother, who once forged a signature on a bond to save her
husband’s life. The lender, who needs a favor, threatens to
expose her.  Nora is shown constantly to be performing. She instantly
changes her tone whenever her husband Torvald enters the room.
She can turn on a flirtatious mode with the suddenness of a
light switch when her admirer Doctor Rank visits.  Nervy Nora  Morahan does a terrific job as Nora. She’s nervy, on edge,
now girlish, now serious. She pushes the final confrontation
with her husband to powerful extremes. Dominic Rowan is great as
Torvald, and makes the character’s limited emotional vocabulary
sympathetic rather than alienating.  Some of the rest of the acting isn’t as nuanced, and
sometimes Cracknell’s direction feels too insistent and
monochrome, as if she doesn’t trust the audience to get the
feminist angle and has to spell it out for us.  Designer Ian MacNeil creates a cramped late-19th-century
apartment on a revolve, and Gabrielle Dalton’s stylized period
costumes cleverly show just how corseted and constricted Nora’s
life is. Rating: ***.  Director Daniel Slater creates a surprising and thoughtful
production of Tchaikovsky’s “Yevgeny Onegin” at  Opera Holland
Park . The early scenes, in which cynical Onegin rejects the love
of unworldly young Tatyana, are set just before the Russian
revolution. It’s a nostalgic world of wealth, delicate muslin
dresses and laboring peasants.  Years later, when Onegin meets and falls in love with
Tatyana, everything has changed. She’s now the wife of a Soviet
general. In such an oppressive society, Onegin’s final cry of
despair feels even more bitter than usual.  Dark Sound  Alexander Polianichko’s conducting ranks among the best
heard at  Holland Park . He hews a dark, soulful, Slavic sound
from the orchestra, and keeps the drama taut and energized.  If Mark Stone (Onegin) doesn’t have the most secure Russian
accent, he has a warm, passionate sound to compensate, and tenor
Peter Auty makes a superb heart-on-sleeve Lensky. The role of
Tatyana usually requires a soprano with some heft to her voice
and in this respect light-voiced Anna Leese is an odd casting
choice. In other respects, her beautiful, even-toned sound is a
pleasure. Rating: ***.  “Timon of Athens” is in repertory at the National Theatre
through Nov. 1, and the final performance will be broadcast live
in the U.K. and abroad. Information:
 http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or +44-20-7452-3000; “A
Doll’s House” is at the Young Vic,  http://www.youngvic.org  or
+44-20-7922-2922; “Yevgeny Onegin” is in repertory at Opera
Holland Park, which is sponsored by Investec Wealth &
Investment,  http://www.operahollandpark.com  or +44-300-999-1000.  Muse highlights include  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend
and  Lewis Lapham  on history.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 