-- Twitter Appeals Order That It Turn Over Protester’s Posts
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-07-19T18:44:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/twitter-appeals-order-that-it-turn-over-protester-s-posts-1-.html
Twitter Inc. is appealing a judge’s
order to turn over information about an  Occupy Wall Street 
protester’s posts, saying it’s committed to “fighting for our
users.”  A notice of appeal was filed in  New York  criminal court
July 17, seeking to overturn a June 30 decision by State Supreme
Court Judge Matthew A. Sciarrino Jr. Sciarrino denied Twitter’s
request to quash a subpoena from  Manhattan  District Attorney
Cyrus Vance Jr. and said the company must turn over tweets by
protester Malcolm Harris, from Sept. 15 to Dec. 30.  “At Twitter, we are committed to fighting for our users,
Twitter’s legal counsel Ben Lee said today in an e-mailed
statement. ‘‘Accordingly, we are appealing this decision which,
in our view, doesn’t strike the right balance between the rights
of our users and the interests of  law enforcement .”  Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Vance, declined to comment.  The case will determine whether Twitter faces the burden of
responding to subpoenas for its users, the San Francisco-based
company has said. The outcome is significant throughout the U.S.
as law enforcement becomes more aggressive in seeking
information about what people do and say on the Internet, the
 American Civil Liberties Union  said in a May 31 court filing.  ‘To Yourself’  “What you give to the public belongs to the public,”
Sciarrino said in his ruling. “What you keep to yourself
belongs only to you.”  Sciarrino said the duties of Twitter and other social media
companies are similar to those of witnesses to street crimes.  Twitter provides real-time messaging and allows users to
make posts that are broadcast to people who sign up to follow
them.  Twitter had asked Sciarrino to reverse an April ruling
denying Harris’s request to quash a subpoena from Vance.
Sciarrino ordered Twitter instead to comply with the subpoena,
saying its users don’t have standing to argue the issue, while
the company does  After the judge’s April 20 decision, Twitter updated its
terms effective May 17 to say that users retain their right to
any content they submit, post or display.  The ACLU had said Harris should be able to argue against
the subpoena because his First Amendment right to free speech
and his Fourth Amendment right to privacy are implicated.  ‘Untenable Position’  Twitter said that if the  district attorney  can subpoena it
for user information, the company would be “put in the
untenable position of either providing user communications and
account information in response to all subpoenas or attempting
to vindicate its users’ rights by moving to quash these
subpoenas itself.”  Vance’s subpoena seeks past Twitter posts and user
information linked to the “@destructuremal” account of Harris,
who was arrested with about 700 protesters on the Brooklyn
Bridge on Oct. 1, according to court filings.  The information sought covers about 3 1/2 months, including
Harris’s arrest date, as well as  Internet Protocol  addresses
corresponding to each post -- something that would allow
prosecutors to see Harris’s location at the time the posts were
sent.  Twitter said prosecutors can’t argue that Harris’s posts
are “public” because they can’t access his old posts
themselves.  “Otherwise the government would have already obtained the
subject’s tweets itself and avoided wasting all the time and
resources it has trying to enforce an unlawful subpoena issued
to Twitter,” the company said in court papers.  The case is People of the  State of New York  v. Harris,
11-80152,  Supreme Court  of the State of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  