-- Snedeker Leads Scott, Woods Entering British Open 3rd Round
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-21T12:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/woods-lawrie-scott-share-early-lead-at-golf-s-british-open.html
Brandt Snedeker takes a one-stroke
lead over  Adam Scott  into today’s third round at the British
Open, with  Tiger Woods  four shots behind.  Snedeker shot a 6-under-par 64 yesterday to reach 10 under
at Royal Lytham & St. Annes in northwest  England . The 31-year-
old American’s 36-hole total of 130 tied the Open record set by
 Nick Faldo  at Muirfield in  Scotland  in 1992. His 64 also equaled
the tournament mark for Lytham shared by Tom Lehman in 1996 and
Scott in the first round.  “Typically when I get going I have no problem going low,”
said Snedeker, who’s yet to make a bogey. “I feel good. I
played pretty well the first two days.”  Scott, from  Australia , is 9 under after shooting 67
yesterday, with Woods in third place at 6 under following a 67
in which he birdied two of the final three holes, including one
from a greenside bunker on No. 18.  “I’m very pleased at where I’m at,” Woods, seeking his
15th major title and first in four years, told reporters.
“We’re at the halfway point and I’m right in the mix.”  Snedeker and Scott tee off at 3:20 p.m. local time, ten
minutes after Woods and Denmark’s Thorbjorn Olesen. Among those
on the course, Masters champion  Bubba Watson  is even par through
four holes and even for the tournament.  Snedeker, who missed the cut in his three previous
appearances in golf’s oldest major championship, finished the
second round with six birdies. The Nashville, Tennessee, native
hasn’t hit any of the 206 bunkers on the course.  “To hit it in no bunkers around here you have to get
lucky,” he said. “I don’t expect that stat to hold up over the
weekend.”  Scott’s Round  Scott was even par through nine holes yesterday before
making two straight birdies. After six pars, he had a final
birdie to complete his 67.  “Very pleased with the round today,” he said. “I didn’t
take any unnecessary risks and kept the ball in play pretty
well. Kind of stress free.”  Woods was 2 under after 10 holes yesterday before making
his only bogey at the 11th. He rolled in a 15-foot birdie putt
at No. 16, then chipped in from the sand on the 18th for another
birdie.  “I was on the upslope,” Woods said. “So just threw it up
there. I played about a cup outside the left and it landed on my
spot and rolled to the right.”  Olesen closed with two birdies for a 66 that moved him into
fourth place at 5 under. The 22-year-old is looking forward to
being paired with Woods, who he said was his idol.  “I walked down 18, I knew if I made a birdie here I had a
chance to play with Tiger,” Olesen said. “That was amazing.”  1999 Champion  Scotland’s  Paul Lawrie , the 1999 champion; Northern
Ireland’s Graeme McDowell; Americans  Matt Kuchar  and  Jason Dufner , and South Africa’s Thomas Aiken are at 4 under. Another
South African, three-time major champion Ernie Els, is 3 under.  Northern Ireland’s Rory McIlroy is 3 over through 11 holes
in his round to fall to 5 over. U.S. PGA Champion Keegan Bradley
shot 68 today and England’s  Lee Westwood  had 71.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  