-- Yahoo’s Mayer Could Inspire Better Leave Policy for Moms
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-19T22:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/yahoo-s-mayer-could-inspire-better-leave-policy-for-moms.html
In announcing that she would soon be
a new mother,  Marissa Mayer , the new chief executive officer of
 Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , made one thing perfectly clear: She wouldn’t be
taking maternity leave.  More precisely,  Mayer said  she would grab just a few weeks
away from the office and would work at home the whole time. Many
been-there-done-that moms  scoffed . Just wait until she
experiences the labor, the every-two-hours feedings and the
moments of intense joy in between, she’ll change her mind.  This would not be a bad thing, if only to demonstrate to
the rest of the U.S. the privilege that Mayer, as a Californian,
enjoys. Her state is one of the few to guarantee paid maternity
leave.  Its program  is a successful model for other states to
follow, just as Mayer will be an example for women in her
company, her industry and across the country.  The U.S. is the only major industrialized country not to
guarantee paid parental leave nationwide. The federal  Family and
Medical Leave Act  passed in 1993 allows workers as much as 12
weeks of leave without losing their jobs or benefits, but it
doesn’t protect wages.  California  was the first state to institute a program
filling the gap. The state has long allowed women to receive
 temporary disability insurance  payments in the four weeks
leading up to their due dates and in the six weeks or more after
giving birth. Since 2004, the state’s Paid Family Leave program
has enabled both parents to take off an additional six weeks and
be paid 55 percent of their usual wages, up to a cap of $1,011 a
week in 2012.  Broad Eligibility  The program is financed through a 1 percent state payroll
tax. Almost all workers in the private sector are eligible for
the leave. That’s in contrast to FMLA, which covers about half
of American workers. (Mayer wouldn’t qualify, as FMLA
protections start only when employees have been in their jobs
for a year.)  Parents who have used California’s program say it works. In
a  2010 survey  of California employees and employers published by
the liberal Center for Economic and Policy Research, more than
80 percent of workers in low-paying jobs said they received at
least half of their usual pay while on leave -- and 91 percent
said the leave was good for their children.  It’s been good for employers, too. Despite initial fears
about the price tag, 87 percent of companies in the same survey
reported that they incurred no additional costs. Almost 9
percent reported saving money because turnover costs dropped,
with workers in low-paying jobs more likely to return to their
employers after taking paid leave. (The actual figure may be
much higher because 60 percent of companies coordinated their
private leave plans with the public program.)  There are other benefits:  A study  released in December 2011
by the  National Bureau of Economic Research  found that
California mothers who took the paid time off immediately after
giving birth worked up to two to three more hours each week
between their child’s first and fourth birthdays.  Indeed, longer maternity leaves seem to benefit the health
of mother and child. The number of weeks mothers breastfed their
children doubled when they participated in the paid-leave
program, the 2010 survey found. A  national study  in 2008
reported a drop in symptoms of depression among mothers when
average leave time doubled from nine weeks to 18.  Limited Awareness  The only problem -- and here’s where a high-profile figure
like Mayer could be particularly helpful -- is that too few
prospective parents in California know about their paid-leave
privileges. More than half of the eligible workers interviewed
for the 2010 survey were unaware of the program. In addition,
more than a third of the eligible workers who did know about it
chose not to take part for fear they would upset their employer
or hurt their career advancement.  Other states also seem unaware of California’s success.
Only  New Jersey  has a similar program, which began paying
benefits in 2009. It offers a more generous two-thirds wage
replacement but with a lower cap.  Hawaii ,  New York  and  Rhode
Island  offer some leave through temporary disability programs.
Washington state passed a paid-leave program in 2007 that would
provide a flat benefit of $250 a week to parents who had been
working full time. But it hasn’t been financed and put in place.  President  Barack Obama  has sought a grant program to help
states experiment with paid leave, but Congress didn’t approve
his requests for $50 million in 2011 and $23 million in 2012.
His 2013 budget seeks just $5 million.  That is a worthy investment to make in the millions of
parents who lack the resources of someone as successful as
Mayer, yet would nevertheless like to combine parenthood with a
fruitful career.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 