-- Yahoo CEO Mayer Eligible for Pay as High as $59 Million
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-07-19T23:20:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/yahoo-ceo-mayer-eligible-for-compensation-as-high-as-59-million.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  Chief Executive Officer
 Marissa Mayer  stands to receive as much as $59 million in
compensation over the coming years after agreeing to leave
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  to run the troubled Web portal.  The total includes $3 million in salary and potential bonus
and $12 million in restricted stock units and stock options,
according to a filing today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. She is also set to receive $30 million in
one-time retention awards and $14 million to make up for stock-
based compensation she would have received at Google.  Mayer, 37, took the helm July 17, the day Yahoo reported
second-quarter sales that were little changed from a year
earlier. The results underscored the challenge Mayer faces as
the fifth CEO in three years who’s attempting to revive growth
at Yahoo. The company lags behind  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and Google in
luring the online advertising that makes up most of sales.  “You have to build in sort of a risk premium,” said David
Larcker, a  professor  at Stanford University’s Graduate School of
Business. “She has to change the strategy and redeploy assets -
- make it work. And she’s a very well-known person, aggressive,
successful. You’re going to have to pay a sizable wage.”  Mayer will juggle her role as CEO with being a new mother.
She said on her Twitter page that she and her husband, Zachary
Bogue, are expecting a baby boy.  Past Pay  Yahoo set  Scott Thompson ’s potential compensation as high
as $27 million before he stepped down in May over inaccuracies
in his resume.  Carol Bartz , his predecessor at the Sunnyvale,
California-based company, stood to earn about $10 million during
her last year on the job. She was fired in September amid
frustration among investors such as  Daniel Loeb  over her
handling of strategy.  Mayer followed  Ross Levinsohn , who ran Yahoo on an interim
basis after Thompson resigned.  Yahoo edited language in its offer letter since the one it
gave Thompson in January. Mayer’s requires her to affirm that
“all information provided to Yahoo! or its agents with regard
to your background is true and correct,” while Thompson’s
stated only that the offer is contingent on a background check.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  