-- Yuan Forwards Advance on Stimulus Speculation; Spot Weakens
-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 2012-07-19T09:07:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/yuan-trades-near-one-week-high-on-china-stimulus-speculation.html
Yuan  forwards in  Hong Kong  gained on
speculation that  China  will soon announce measures to revive
economic growth as inflation eases. The spot rate in  Shanghai 
snapped a three-day advance.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  will probably cut banks’ reserve
requirements and encourage corporate lending as the cabinet
meets to discuss boosting growth, the swap market indicates.
Nomura Holdings Inc. said the State Council may detail easing
measures this week. Inflation in July may climb less than 2
percent, the slowest pace since January 2010, China Securities
Journal said in a front page commentary today. Foreign direct
investment dropped 3 percent in the first six months from a year
earlier, the commerce ministry said July 17.  “Given reviving growth is a priority, China has to
implement policies that encourage investment, which could spur
some demand for the yuan,” said  Daniel Chan , executive vice-
president at Glory Sky Global Markets Ltd. in Hong Kong. “Yet,
the yuan won’t appreciate much because the government also wants
to safeguard export growth.”  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards climbed 0.04 percent
to 6.4135 per dollar as of 4:58 p.m. in Hong Kong, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The contracts are at a 0.6 percent
discount to the spot rate in Shanghai.  The yuan weakened 0.05 percent to close at 6.3734 per
dollar in the onshore market, according to the China Foreign
Exchange Trade System. One-month implied volatility, a measure
of exchange-rate swings used to price options, was unchanged at
1.35 percent.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan was
steady at 6.3720 per dollar.  Overseas investment in the world’s second-largest economy
has declined as China’s growth cooled to the slowest pace in
three years in the second quarter. Gross domestic product
expanded 7.6 percent from a year earlier, official data showed
July 13.  The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s  reference
rate  0.02 percent stronger at 6.3126, raising it for the fourth
day to the highest level since July 4. The currency is allowed
to trade as much as 1 percent on either side of the fixing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  