-- Zynga Adds Diversity to Board With Yahoo Veteran Ellen Siminoff
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-07-19T20:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-19/zynga-adds-diversity-to-board-with-yahoo-veteran-ellen-siminoff.html
Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest developer of
games for social-networking websites, named former  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) 
executive Ellen Siminoff as its first female director, as
boardrooms at top Silicon Valley companies become more diverse.  Siminoff, 44, who held various roles at Yahoo from 1996 to
2002, joins eight men on Zynga’s board, the San Francisco-based
company said today in a statement. She is currently chief
executive officer of education startup Shmoop University Inc.  Zynga follows other tech companies, including  Facebook Inc. (FB) 
and Yahoo, in adding a female director, answering calls of
concern that governance at large corporations is too male-
dominated. Facebook appointed Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg as its first female director last month, while Yahoo
named  Marissa Mayer  as chief executive officer and a director
this week.  “There is something to be said for boards having people
who are representative of their customers,” Siminoff said today
in a telephone interview. Zynga’s “core demographic right now
is women who are middle-aged, and I fit into that demographic.”  Siminoff also serves on the boards of  Journal
Communications Inc. (JRN) , Mozilla Corp.,  Solarwinds Inc. (SWI) , and U.S.
Auto Parts Network Inc. Prior to joining Shmoop, a company her
husband founded in 2007, Siminoff was CEO of Efficient Frontier,
a search-engine marketing company later acquired by  Adobe
Systems Inc. (ADBE)   At Yahoo, she rose to become senior vice president,
overseeing units including the Web portal’s entertainment
division. Her focus at one time included Yahoo Games, an early
online gaming site, an experience that may inform her role on
the board of Zynga, she said.  Male Only  “They have a lot of users, they have high engagement, and
they have figured out a revenue model,” Siminoff said of Zynga.
“I think there’s a huge opportunity for them.”  Zynga’s board includes founder and CEO Mark Pincus, chief
operating officer John Schappert, venture capitalists Reid
Hoffman and Bing Gordon, and Jeffrey Katzenberg, CEO of
 DreamWorks Animation SKG Inc. (DWA)   Just 11.3 percent of the Fortune 500 had male-only boards
last year, according to Catalyst, a New York-based nonprofit
organization that researches women’s progress in business.  Zynga  fell  1.2 percent to $4.56 at the close in New York.
The shares have dropped more than 50 percent since its initial
public offering in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  