-- Japan Adopts Stealth Intervention as Yen Gains Threaten Exporter Earnings
-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 2012-02-07T05:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/-stealth-intervention-in-yen-shown-in-japanese-finance-report-for-quarter.html
Japan  used so-called stealth
intervention in November as the government sought to stem yen
gains that hammered earnings at makers of exports ranging from
cars to electronics.  Finance Ministry  data  released today showed Japan conducted
1.02 trillion yen ($13.3 billion) worth of unannounced
intervention during the first four days of November, after
selling a record 8.07 trillion yen on Oct. 31, when the yen
climbed to a post World War II high of 75.35 against the dollar.
The currency’s strength has eroded profits at exporters such as
Sharp Corp. and   Honda Motor Co. , just as faltering global
growth undermines demand.  “Japan has clearly shown its intention to stop a further
appreciation of the yen, and there is a high chance” for more
yen selling, said Hideki Shibata, a senior strategist for rates
and foreign exchange at Tokai  Tokyo  Research Center Co.
“Caution against intervention has increased in markets.”  November’s unannounced yen sales were the most effective
strategy to weaken the currency, said a Japanese official who
spoke to reporters in Tokyo today on condition of anonymity.
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said he won’t rule out any options to
curb the yen’s appreciation and that he will take action
whenever necessary.  Exporting ‘Nearly Impossible’  His comment came a week after Sharp, Japan’s largest maker
of LCD panels, forecast its worst annual loss since its founding
a century ago, with its president saying exporting is “nearly
impossible” with the strong yen. Panasonic Corp., Japan’s
biggest appliance maker, forecast a 780 billion yen loss, the
worst since the Osaka-based company was established in 1918.  Honda , the nation’s third-largest automobile maker,
forecast on Jan. 31 net income for the 12 months ending March
will decline to a three-year low of 215 billion yen. The company
estimates its operating income is cut by 15 billion yen for
every one yen gain against the dollar.  The  Bank of Japan  last month lowered its forecast for
economic growth to 2 percent in the year starting in April from
an October estimate of 2.2 percent, citing a slowdown overseas
and the stronger yen.  The U.S. Treasury Department criticized Japan in a December
 report  for unilaterally selling its currency in August and
October, saying the Asian nation should focus on steps to
“increase the dynamism of the domestic economy.” Intervention
is an option if the yen moves excessively,  Naoyuki Shinohara , a
deputy managing director at the  International Monetary Fund ,
said in an interview in Tokyo on Feb. 3.  U.S. Criticism  “Coming under growing criticism from overseas, Japan
couldn’t openly intervene in the markets,” said Junichi Ishikawa, an analyst in Tokyo at IG Markets Securities Ltd.
“Japan had to choose stealth intervention from the very few
options to deal with increasing pressure within the country.”  Intervention is defined as “stealth” when it’s done
without any finance ministry announcement, he said.  The yen sale in October was the biggest intervention on a
monthly basis in data going back to 1991, while sales totaled
14.3 trillion yen in 2011, the third-largest annual  amount ,
ministry data also showed.  No New Tactics  “We do not believe that the intervention over a period of
several days by Japanese authorities signals a significant shift
in tactics compared to previous interventions,”  Osamu Takashima , Issei Suzuki and  Todd Elmer , foreign-exchange
strategists at Citibank Japan Ltd. in Tokyo, wrote in a note to
clients today. “Investors may be inclined to sell into any
renewed bout of intervention on USDJPY on a breakdown beneath
recent range lows.”  The first intervention of 2011 was a 692.5 billion yen sale
on March 18, when the Bank of Japan led a coordinated effort
with Group of Seven nations to counter a jump in the yen after a
record earthquake struck Japan a day earlier, stoking
speculation companies would repatriate overseas assets to pay
for rebuilding. Current Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda , who was
finance minister at the time, ordered the nation’s central bank
to intervene again unilaterally on Aug. 4.  The yen reached 76.03 per dollar on Feb. 1, the strongest
since Oct. 31. It traded at 76.72 as of 2:33 p.m. today in
Tokyo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at   myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  