-- A Bar May Be the Place to Understand Markets: Buchanan
-- B y   M a r k   B u c h a n a n
-- 2012-02-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/a-bar-may-be-best-place-to-understand-markets-commentary-by-mark-buchanan.html
The aftermath of the Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. bankruptcy in 2008 was a scary time: One measure
of stock-market volatility, known as the  VIX  or the “fear
index,” reached a peak daily closing price of more than 80,
compared with about 18 today. Scarier is the knowledge that
we’ll be there again sometime. That’s how markets go: Unexpected
chaos is the rule.  Economists have wondered for decades why markets have
“excess volatility” -- that is, why prices move up and down
more than they should by any sensible reckoning of assets’
fundamental value. We routinely have things like the crash of
1987, or the Flash Crash of May 6, 2010, shocking events that
seem to strike out of nowhere.  Yet the nature of this chaos might not be as mysterious as
it seems. From the right perspective -- not that of mainstream
economics -- it looks like a natural consequence of a market
game that often deludes investors into thinking they know how it
works.  The idea comes by way of a silly  thought experiment 
invented in 1994 by Brian Arthur, an economist then at  Stanford
University . Imagine a college bar with music and cheap drinks
every Thursday night. Naturally, lots of students want to go.
Trouble is, it’s a tiny place, and they will enjoy it only if 60
percent or fewer of them go. Otherwise, they will suffer
miserably in the cramped heat. Hence, each week, every student
faces a tricky decision: How to do what most other people will
not do. (No cheating -- everyone has to decide at the same
time.)  Game Theory  By tradition, economists analyze situations like this using
game theory, which attempts to explain strategic interactions.
It assumes that every student will think hard about the best
strategy, and remain aware that others will do the same,
everyone taking into account everyone else’s likely actions. By
this method, the bar problem is devilish. Deductive thinking
can’t give a good solution because if everyone chose one
“best” solution, all students would go to the bar or stay at
home, and be miserable either way. Strict reasoning falls down.  Drawing on psychology, Arthur argued that people might make
decisions in more practical terms using simple theories or
hypotheses. For example, a person might think, “crowded last
week, should be less crowded this week,” and choose to go.
Another might think differently, “crowded two weeks in a row,
likely to be crowded again,” and stay at home. Psychologists
have shown that people often make decisions by holding a handful
of such theories in their minds, using whichever one seems
recently to be working best.  Looking at the bar puzzle this way, Arthur found, you can
quickly see how what happens at popular nightspots might
fluctuate quite randomly from night to night. He used a computer
to simulate a group of people using various theories about
whether to go to the bar, and learning by trial and error. Quite
quickly, the weekly attendance settled at an average of about 60
percent. But -- and this is the significant point -- the number
didn’t settle down to 60. Rather, it kept fluctuating above and
below in a random way, as people changed their tactics from week
to week, responding to others who were also changing theirs.  Notice that there’s no “equilibrium” here of the kind
that economists often like and expect. There’s no state of
unchanging balance into which things settle. Lots of surprises
emerge from a completely static situation: people just trying to
solve the same problem week after week.  OK, cute puzzle. So what?  With a few small adjustments, this game can be used to
describe the stock market. Replace “go” with “buy” and
“stay at home” with “sell,” and suppose the difference in
the number buying and selling drives a price change up or down.
The bar game then takes a step toward the kind of thing that
John  Maynard Keynes  had in mind when he suggested that markets
resemble a beauty contest  in which people guess whom they think
most others will choose as the most beautiful. In the markets,
Keynes suggested, we must “devote our intelligences to
anticipating what average opinion expects the average opinion to
be.”  Ecological Models  Two decades later, the bar game now looks more profound
than anyone would have imagined it could. Step by step, a
handful of physicists, computer scientists and economists have
transformed this curiosity into what are now arguably the most
realistic models of markets. Such models treat markets as ever-
evolving ecologies of investors who aim to profit on the basis
of strategies they keep updating as they learn, or at least try
to learn, from the past. Among other things, these ecological
models reproduce the same kind of “excess” price fluctuations
and sporadic upheavals we see in real markets.  In reality, of course, markets are often whacked by
external events such as  bank failures  and policy announcements.
But in these models, tumultuous market plunges can also emerge
from nothing more than a chance momentary concentration of
investors’ strategies -- a crowd-like similarity in thinking and
behavior. There are periods when many market participants see
patterns they interpret similarly. As a result, they react
similarly and in concert, yet in a way that no one sees coming
in advance.  This kind of natural herding leads to the so-called fat-
tailed statistics of markets, reflecting their susceptibility to
large crashes and rallies over minutes, hours and months. It
also leads to many other more subtle, but realistic, features of
real markets, such as their “long memory” -- an episode of
high market volatility now has measurable effects lasting as
long as 10 years into the future. None of these things emerges
in any natural way from traditional equilibrium models.  Of course, no one working on these models would claim that
they offer anything more than a crude picture. But the picture
gets a few things right, and takes a first step into seeing the
consequences of real human behavior in all its adaptive,
changeable and less-than-rational glory. (I’ve given some
further detail on market models of this kind on my  blog .)  No theory of markets will ever come to a final set of
elegant equations, like one often finds in physics.
Understanding markets, like understanding evolution or the
weather, means dealing in approximations, in decent but flawed
models, and exploring any scheme that helps make sense of a very
chaotic and changeable reality. Even if it does start off as a
silly game about a bar.  (Mark Buchanan, a theoretical physicist and the author of
“The Social Atom: Why the Rich Get Richer, Cheaters Get Caught
and Your Neighbor Usually Looks Like You,” is a Bloomberg View
columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Mark Buchanan  at  buchanan.mark@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at   mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 