-- Acer Sues Former Chief Lanci in Italy Over Non-Compete Clause
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-02-07T19:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/acer-sues-former-chief-lanci-over-non-compete-clause-1-.html
Acer Inc.  sued former president and
chief executive officer Gianfranco Lanci in an Italian court
seeking damages for breach of a non-compete clause, the Taipei-
based company said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Lanci left Acer last year after helming the company for
more than six years.  Lenovo Group Ltd.  said in September Lanci
would join the company as a consultant, and last month named him
head of its newly-created  Europe , Middle-East and Africa unit.  Acer Chairman J.T. Wang and Lanci met March 28 last year to
agree on the terms of the Italian’s departure after they
couldn’t resolve disagreements over the company’s direction,
Wang said in a May interview. Lanci’s resignation was announced
three days later, exposing a rift over product strategy and
internationalization at the Taiwanese company. Lanci confirmed
accounts of that meeting in a separate interview.  “We believe Mr. Lanci has breached his non-compete
measures agreed into willingly by both parties when he left
Acer,” the company said in yesterday’s statement. “We are
taking legal action against him in order to protect Acer’s
rights and interests.”  Calls to Lanci’s Italian mobile phone and e-mail to his
personal account weren’t immediately answered yesterday.  Acer, which climbed to second place in the global computer
market, behind  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) , under Lanci’s tenure, has
fallen to  fourth place  after writing off inventories accrued in
Europe during Lanci’s final year at the company.  The suit was filed in Milan because Lanci is Italian and
resides in the country, Acer  said  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  