-- Lagardere to Take 2011 Impairment Loss as Fourth-Quarter Sales Fall 9.1%
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-07T12:46:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/lagardere-to-take-2011-impairment-loss.html
Lagardere SCA  dropped the most in
three months in Paris trading after saying it will record losses
of about 900 million euros ($1.2 billion) to reflect the lower
value of its sports-marketing and pay-television units.  The impairment losses, equivalent to almost a third of
Lagardere’s market value, were made as the Paris-based company
expanded into sports business through the Unlimited division
championed by Chief Executive Officer  Arnaud Lagardere .  France 's largest publisher fell as much as 6.3 percent to 
21.68 euros, the steepest decline since Nov. 9, and traded at 
21.84 euros as of 1:38 p.m. in the French capital, giving the 
company a market value of 2.9 billion euros.  “It was impossible to imagine that they would go another
year without impairment losses,” said  Conor O’Shea , an analyst
at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris. “The important thing is
that they’ve confirmed their 2011 guidance.”  Under Arnaud Lagardere, whose father Jean-Luc built the
company, the publisher of Elle magazine sold its international
magazines business last year and has targeted its Canal Plus
France unit for disposal. A planned initial public offering of
the pay-TV stake was put on hold last year after an earthquake
in  Japan  roiled financial markets.  ‘Not Easy’  “The main direction is still to go for an IPO,” Dominique
D’Hinnin, co-managing partner of  Lagardere , said on a conference
call today. “We are talking to some potential third-party
acquirers in order to consider a sale. It’s not an easy job
because this is not liquid and a minority position.”  While there are “interested parties,” there is “nothing to
be expected in the next days or weeks, D’Hinnin said.  Lagardere, citing “the weak environment in global economy
and in stock markets” and prospects for Unlimited, said the
impairment losses will hurt 2011 earnings scheduled for release
March 8. The publisher confirmed its forecast for 2011 recurring
operating profit in its media business to decline by a range of
5 percent to 12 percent excluding currency swings. Lagardere cut
its forecast for the business in November.  Fourth-quarter sales fell 9.1 percent to 1.95 billion
euros, in line with analyst estimates. Advertising revenue fell
about 5 percent in January and February, while March “looks
better,” D’Hinnin said.  Vivendi SA , which owns 80 percent of  Canal Plus , has
indicated it isn’t interested in buying the rest of the company,
Anthony Mellor, Lagardere’s head of  investor relations  said on
Nov. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  