-- Ageas Reduces Earnings Swings Assuming More Payments to BNP
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s   a n d   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-02-07T13:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/ageas-reduces-earnings-swings-assuming-more-payments-to-bnp.html
Ageas , the majority owner of
 Belgium ’s biggest life insurer, expects to pay additional
compensation to  BNP Paribas SA  assuming the French bank will be
successful in buying more of  Fortis Bank SA/NV (FBAVP) ’s hybrid bonds.  Ageas (AGS) , based in Brussels and Utrecht, will pay 287 million
euros ($377 million) to BNP Paribas after the Paris-based bank
acquired almost 63 percent of the floating-rate, undated
convertible notes sold by Fortis Bank in 2007, according to a
statement today. BNP Paribas spent 896.9 million euros buying
the notes for 47.5 percent of face value and exchanged those for
Ageas shares valued at 131.3 million euros based on yesterday’s
closing price.  The discounted buyback of the so-called CASHES was part of
a settlement aimed at resolving some of Ageas’s remaining
liabilities from its Fortis legacy. The insurer said today that
it will assign a minimum value of 169 million euros to the
liability arising from the remaining Fortis Bank notes. That
corresponds to the compensation payment that is due should  BNP
Paribas (BNP)  be able to win over all the remaining bondholders for
its discounted offer.  “It basically means Ageas has the intention to further
indemnify BNP so the liability is likely to further decrease
over time,” Benoit Petrarque, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, wrote in an investor note today. “Condition is of
course that BNP will succeed in buying back more CASHES at 47.5
percent.”  Quarterly Interest  Ageas, which was created out of the insurance remains of
Fortis, pays quarterly interest to Fortis Bank to compensate its
former banking unit for the relative decline in the value of
Ageas shares underlying the convertible notes. Fortis Bank is
now  controlled  by BNP Paribas, which bought a 75 percent stake
from the Belgian state in May 2009.  Assigning a minimal valuation to the liability will make
Ageas’s  earnings  less volatile as swings in the value of the
shares or the convertible notes were so far reflected in the
insurer’s quarterly accounts. Quarterly interest payments will
be proportionally lower in case the liability is valued at less
than 169 million euros, according to today’s statement.  The insurer declined 1 cent to 1.65 euros at 1:28 p.m. on
Euronext Brussels, valuing the company at about 4.33 billion
euros. The shares have gained 14 percent since the announcement
of the settlement with BNP Paribas was made on Jan. 26.  Stock Buybacks  Ageas said its cash holdings, less of debt, will increase
by 666 million euros as of March 26 because the settlement also
involved a 1 billion-euro reimbursement by Fortis Bank of
perpetual subordinated notes it sold in 2001, most of which are
held by Ageas since Sept. 26.  The insurer may use the additional cash to resume stock
 buybacks  following approval by shareholders at the annual
meetings at the end of April, Petrarque said.  Ageas spent 250 million euros buying back almost 7.33
percent of its outstanding stock in the five months through Jan.
25 and plans to cancel those shares, offsetting the dilution of
per-share earnings following BNP Paribas’s exchange of the
Fortis Bank notes for about 78.9 million Ageas shares.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  