-- Mahindra Profit Misses Estimates as Raw Material Costs Climb
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-02-07T18:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/mahindra-profit-misses-estimates-as-raw-material-costs-climb.html
Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM) , India’s
largest maker of  sport utility vehicles  and tractors, reported
profit that missed analyst estimates for a  fourth straight
quarter  as rising raw material costs offset higher sales.  Net income , excluding subsidiaries, fell to 6.62 billion
rupees ($134 million) in the three months ended Dec. 31 from
7.35 billion rupees a year earlier, the Mumbai-based company
said yesterday. That compares with the 6.84 billion-rupee median
of 32 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed
37 percent to 83.3 billion rupees.  The maker of Xylo and Scorpio vehicles spent 45.8 billion
rupees, or 21 percent more on raw materials in the quarter,
according to the statement. Mahindra, which raised prices by as
much as 3 percent last month, said yesterday it expects margins
will continue to be under pressure.  “Higher costs of inputs like rubber and steel have dented
profit  margins ,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst at Brics
Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “Margin pressure is likely to
continue, especially because of high prices of steel.”  Mahindra  fell 2.9 percent to 689.65 rupees at the close in
Mumbai trading. The stock had the  biggest  percentage drop on the
10-company BSE  India  Auto Index. The benchmark BSE India
Sensitive Index dropped 0.5 percent.  ‘Material Costs’  Operating margin, which tracks the percentage of sales less
operating costs, was 12.2 percent last quarter, Mahindra said.  “We have not been able to pass on the increase in raw
materials costs to customers entirely,”  Pawan Goenka , the
president of Mahindra’s automotive business, said at a press
conference in Mumbai. “The way material costs have moved has
impacted our profitability.”  Steel prices increased by an average of 3.5 percent in the
quarter ended Dec. 31, according to data from Steel Business
Briefing.  The utility-vehicle maker, which introduced the XUV500
sport-utility vehicle last year to compete in the premium SUV
market, said yesterday bookings for the model had exceeded
25,000. Priced between 1.1 million rupees and 1.36 million
rupees, the XUV500 initially received 8,000 orders in 10 days.  Mahindra, which sold 51,702 passenger utility vehicles in
the quarter, or a 23 percent jump from a year earlier, said
sales of its tractors in India grew 12 percent to 62,342 units,
compared with an industrywide increase of 12.7 percent.  ‘Product Mix’  “The product mix is inherently not improving as the
company sold fewer tractors which are higher margin products,”
 Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst with Fortune Equity Brokers India
Ltd. who has a “hold” rating on Mahindra, said. “Going
forward, price increases will help improve margins.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India raised key  interest rates  13
times since the start of 2010 to rein in inflation, driving down
demand for vehicles in a country where about 80 percent of such
purchases are funded by loans.  The  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  last month
cut its annual local passenger-car sales forecast, the third
such reduction, projecting deliveries may not grow for the first
time in nine years after higher borrowing costs damped demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  