-- Air France Aims to Offer 60% of Long-Haul Flights Tomorrow
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-02-07T18:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/air-france-aims-to-offer-60-of-long-haul-flights-tomorrow.html
Air France  said it expects to fly at
least 60 percent of its long-haul routes tomorrow as pilots and
other workers stage a third day of walkouts in protest of a
proposed change in union laws.  Short-and medium-haul services will be about 70 percent of
normal levels, the French unit of  Air France-KLM Group  said in
an e-mail. The airline said today’s international flights ran at
70 percent, better-than-anticipated, while medium- and short-
haul flights were at the same level, less-than-expected.  Union pilots, cabin crew and ground workers are protesting
a bill to be considered by the French Senate that would require
each employee planning to strike to give companies 48 hours’
notice. The walkouts that started Feb. 6, and planned to extend
through Feb. 9, come less than three months after Alexandre de Juniac became Air France  chief executive officer , succeeding
Pierre-Henri Gourgeon, who left amid financial losses.  The parent airline will post a loss of “several hundred
million euros” for 2011 after fuel costs increased, de Juniac
told French legislators Jan. 25.  Air France-KLM (AF)   fell  0.2 percent to 5.11 euros in Paris
today. The stock dropped 63 percent in the past 12 months, while
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index declined 8.7 percent.  Air France had said earlier in the day that it aimed to
serve “more than 50 percent” of overseas flights today, and 75
percent of short- and medium-haul flights.  “The number of flight cancellations depends on several
factors other than the number of staff striking, such as
regulatory constraints, crew rest periods and the geographical
position of the aircraft,” the Paris-based airline said.  Customers scheduled to travel during the walkout dates will
be allowed to modify or postpone their journeys, and the airline
advised that passengers try to postpone their plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse, France, at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  