-- Akcansa, Cimsa Plan to Buy Cement Companies Outside Turkey
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y
-- 2012-02-07T14:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/akcansa-cimsa-plan-to-buy-cement-companies-outside-turkey-2-.html
Akcansa Cimento Sanayi & Ticaret AS ,
and  Cimsa Cimento Sanayi & Ticaret AS , Turkish cement makers,
plan two separate acquisitions abroad this year, said Mehmet
Gocmen, head of  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding AS ’s cement group.  Akcansa, owned by  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI)  and Sabanci Holding,
and Cimsa, with a combined 20 percent share in Turkey’s cement
production, are looking at companies in Turkey’s geographical
region, Gocmen told a news conference in embargoed comments late
yesterday. The targets could be based in central and southern
 Europe  to the Caucasus and  Middle East , he said.  Akcansa and Cimsa each have sufficient equity to make the
acquisitions without any borrowing, Gocmen said. “Should
shareholders add some more financing, bigger acquisitions are
also possible,” he said.  Cimsa is also waiting for the result of an auction in which
its bidding to buy Turkish cement maker  Afyon Cimento Sanayi TAS 
from İtalcementi SpA’s  Ciments Francais SA , Gocmen said.  Turkish Market  Akcansa and Cimsa plan inorganic growth both in  Turkey  and
abroad because regulations don’t allow a single company to
control more than 25 percent of the domestic market, Gocmen
said. About 20 international and local cement producers,
including  Italcementi  and  Cimpor Cimentos de Portugal SGPS SA ,
operate in Turkey. Akcansa and Cimsa are also interested in
opportunities domestically, Gocmen said.  Cimsa rose 1.4 percent to 8.78 liras and Akcansa was
unchanged at 7.40 liras at 4:34 p.m. in Istanbul. The main share
index gained 0.2 percent.  Turkey, where cement makers run at almost full capacity,
can produce 70 million metric tons annually and cement
consumption is expected to grow 4.5 percent this year after
growing an estimated 11 percent to 56.1 million tons in 2011,
Gocmen said. The remaining output was exported last year, with
exports dropping 4.5 million tons from 2010, he said. Cement
exports, mostly to  Russia ,  Argentina  and  Brazil , will probably
decline further in 2012, Gocmen said.  Sabanci Holding’s cement division expects this year’s sales
at 2 billion liras ($1.1 billion), after an estimated 20 percent
growth last year, according to Gocmen. Akcansa will invest 125
million liras this year and Cimsa 100 million liras, excluding
any possible acquisitions, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  