-- Alberto Contador Has Place on Saxo Cycling Team If He Wants, Manager Says
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-02-08T11:07:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/alberto-contador-has-place-on-saxo-cycling-team-if-he-wants-manager-says.html
Alberto Contador , stripped of his
2010 Tour de France title in a doping case, will be welcome back
on the Saxo Bank team when he returns from a ban in August
because he didn’t take performance-enhancing drugs on purpose,
team manager  Bjarne Riis  said.  The Court of Arbitration for Sport on Feb. 6 rejected
Contador’s argument he tested positive for clenbuterol because
he ate a contaminated steak. The panel said it was more likely
the stimulant detected in his body during the race came from a
tainted food supplement.  Contador, 29, got a two-year suspension from the Lausanne,
Switzerland-based tribunal, the world’s top sports court. The
ban was backdated and he can race beginning Aug. 5, near the end
of the season that is getting under way.  “The ruling states it’s very unlikely this has anything
to do with conscious cheating, the most likely reason is
accidental intake of a substance,” Riis told a news
conference last night with Contador in the Madrid suburb of
Pinto. “Our trust in Alberto is still 100 percent intact.”  While Contador’s current contract is no longer valid
because of his suspension, “if he wishes to continue with the
team, our intention is the same,” Riis said.  “We’ll sit down and talk,” Riis said. “August is a long
time away.”  Fran Contador, the rider’s brother and manager, told
Television Espanola “our priority is Saxo Bank” and he will
“definitely” stay with the team, citing the support they had
received from officials and sponsors.  ‘Real Agony’  The court said submissions by the sport’s ruling body, the
International Cycling Union, and the  World Anti-Doping Agency 
that Contador might have re-infused his own blood to boost
performance, leaving traces of clenbuterol, were as unlikely as
his tainted-steak claim.  The tribunal handed down the sanction because under WADA
rules athletes are responsible for what they ingest. The ruling
ended an 18-month inquiry.  “It has been real agony,” Contador told the news
conference in a hotel near his house. “It’s been a year and a
half that I wouldn’t wish on anyone. There has been speculation,
leaks. Even though I am feeling low, I will be stronger in the
future.”  Contador, who was cheered and applauded by fans during the
news conference, said he had done everything to try to prove his
innocence, including a five-hour lie-detector session. His
lawyers are exploring an appeal to a civil court, Contador
added.  “We are going to carry on fighting until the end,”
Contador said.  Money Manager  Saxo Bank A/S, a Danish online trader and money manager,
said it was also standing by Contador and the team it has
sponsored since 2008, according to e-mailed comments by Chief
Executive Officer Lars Seier Christensen.  “I personally sympathize with Alberto because I’m sure he
hasn’t done anything wrong,” Christensen said.  John Fahey, president of Montreal-based WADA, said he
welcomed the penalty for Contador.  “It demonstrates clearly the robust nature of our code,”
Fahey told reporters in Lausanne. “The onus is on athletes to
ensure they do not take” banned substances, Fahey said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  