-- Aluminum Over Copper for Cables Helps Rusal, Alcoa: Commodities
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-02-08T10:37:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/aluminum-over-copper-for-cables-helps-rusal-alcoa-commodities.html
Copper has climbed to almost four
times the price of aluminum, a record ratio that’s accelerating
a switch by manufacturers to using the cheaper metal in electric
cables and wires, a  United Co. Rusal (486)  executive said.  Demand for copper is shrinking by about 400,000 tons a year
through substitution, or 2 percent of global use, according to
Oleg Mukhamedshin, deputy chief executive officer of Rusal, the
world’s largest aluminum producer, who cited market data the
company uses in its forecasts.  “More than half of this loss is to aluminum,”
Mukhamedshin said in an interview in Moscow. “With copper
prices at a record, further substitution is expected.”  The shift is helping the silver-colored metal rise this
year after its average price slid 7 percent since 2006. That
should increase revenue for producers from Rusal to  Alcoa Inc. (AA) ,
the largest U.S. producer, in the $100 billion market for the
material used in aircraft, building materials and beer cans.  The current aluminum price is below the cost of production
for about 30 percent of the world’s producers, according to
Rusal’s data. Alcoa,  Rio Tinto Group (RIO)  and their global
competitors are cutting production after aluminum prices
declined almost 30 percent by the middle of December to $1,962 a
ton from the peak of $2,797 a ton in May. Alcoa reported its
first loss in two years in January, while Rusal said it may cut
6 percent of its output in 18 months.  The price of copper, half of which is used in wiring, has
more than doubled since 2005 to $8,300 a ton and is more
profitable for its producers, while aluminum has remained at
about $2,200 a ton in the period.  High Voltage  The light metal will have the biggest annual demand
increase among industrial metals through 2015,  Paul Robinson ,
non-ferrous metals group manager at London-based researcher CRU
said in October. Aluminum demand is set to rise on average 7.6
percent a year versus 4.3 percent annual growth for copper, CRU
said. Aluminum will drive copper replacement in high-voltage
energy cables, according to CRU.  Aluminum prices are less than 5 percent higher than average
production costs of about $2,100 a ton, while copper, which is
in more limited in supply, trades at twice the $4,200 cost of
producing each ton, said Eric Danemar, a Moscow-based analyst
with Deutsche Bank AG.  Alcoa estimates the metal may displace about 20 percent of
copper usage, eroding demand for 3.8 million metric tons of its
reddish substitute. In developed countries 8 percent of aluminum
produced is currently used in electrical applications, including
cables and wiring, according to Rusal’s data on its  website .  Aluminum Surplus  “Aluminum supply will be in surplus of about 500,000 tons
this year, meaning that even relatively small additional demand
from the markets, which were traditionally for copper, may
support light-metal prices,” Dmitry Smolin, a Uralsib Capital
analyst said.  Copper may be in deficit by 160,000 tons this year,
encouraging substitution, which may take place not only in
wiring, but also in production of equipment for cars, he said.  London Metal Exchange aluminum forward contracts show that
traders forecast the aluminum price to reach $2,530 per ton by
the middle of 2015 and $2,900 in a decade. Copper forwards show
the opposite trend, with the prices starting to fall by the end
of the third quarter of 2013 after reaching $8,500 per ton.
Copper may fall to $7,600 per ton in a decade, forwards show.  The ratio of copper’s price to aluminum has jumped to 3.7
from 1 in 1987, tempting customers to switch to the cheaper
material, Danemar said.  Copper’s Properties  Copper is at least 65 percent more effective than aluminum
in three key properties: electrical conductivity, thermal
conductivity and ductility, according to Deutsche Bank. This
implies that copper should cost 1.65 times more than aluminum.
When that ratio climbs to 2-to-1, an economic incentive to
substitute copper with aluminum arises, according to the bank.  About 3 million tons of annual copper demand has been
switched to substitutes including plastics, fiber optic and
aluminum in 2004 to 2011, according to estimates from the
International Copper Association and Deutsche Bank.  “Despite the copper-aluminum ratio rising, the rate of
substitution declined post-2007, as most easy-to-accomplish
applications have been converted,” Deutsche Bank said in a
report last month. Still, there is room to replace copper with
aluminum for high-voltage cables and low-voltage use in
commercial property and building cladding, according to Alcoa.  Power Lines  Rusal is testing an aluminum-zirconium alloy to provide a
substitute for copper in the construction of power transmission
lines, Mukhamedshin said. The new product will allow the lines
to be more resistant to weather conditions, such as low
temperatures and heavy snowfalls, he said. Demand for it may
come from  Russia ’s Siberia and the U.S., which needs to
modernize its power grids, Mukhamedshin said.  Even so, analysts are cautious about forecasting a quick
comeback.  “Aluminum is plagued by oversupply and we forecast that
2012 will see the sixth consecutive year of supply surplus,”
Royal Bank of  Scotland  said in a report last month. Meanwhile,
the copper market “remains in firm supply deficit and it is
hard to see this changing within the next one to two years.”  The metal “remains around its cheapest relative to copper
in decades,”  Nick Moore , head of commodity research at RBS,
said in a report last month. “Consumers have, where possible,
been substituting away from copper to aluminum in certain
applications such as heat exchangers, cabling and solar panel
tubing.”  Better Conductor  Vladimir Zhukov , head of the Russian equity research team
at HSBC Holdings Plc, said the copper market “is not in
danger.”  China , the largest consumer of both metals, is still a
pure exporter of aluminum, while importing copper, he said.  “Aluminum producers have been talking substitution for 30
years, and a lot of the substitution has already taken place,”
Peter Hickson, a strategist at UBS AG in  Hong Kong , said by
phone Feb. 7. “The reality is that aluminum just doesn’t
conduct heat or electricity anywhere near as well as copper
does.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  