-- Americans Gaining Energy Independence With U.S. as Top Producer
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r ,   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-02-07T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/americans-gaining-energy-independence-with-u-s-as-top-producer.html
The U.S. is the closest it has been
in almost 20 years to achieving energy self-sufficiency, a goal
the nation has been pursuing since the 1973 Arab oil embargo
triggered a recession and led to lines at gasoline stations.  Domestic oil output is the highest in eight years. The U.S.
is producing so much natural gas that, where the government
warned four years ago of a critical need to boost imports, it
now may approve an export terminal.  Methanex Corp. (MX) , the world’s
biggest methanol maker, said it will dismantle a factory in
Chile and reassemble it in  Louisiana  to take advantage of low
natural gas prices. And higher mileage standards and federally
mandated ethanol use, along with slow economic growth, have
curbed demand.  The result: The U.S. has reversed a two-decade-long decline
in energy independence, increasing the proportion of demand met
from domestic sources over the last six years to an estimated 81
percent through the first 10 months of 2011, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg from the U.S. Department of Energy. That
would be the highest level since 1992.  “For 40 years, only politicians and the occasional author
in Popular Mechanics magazine talked about achieving energy
independence,” said  Adam Sieminski , who has been nominated by
President Barack Obama to head the U.S. Energy Information
Administration. “Now it doesn’t seem such an outlandish idea.”  The transformation, which could see the country become the
world’s top energy producer by 2020, has implications for the
economy and national security -- boosting household incomes,
jobs and government revenue; cutting the trade deficit;
enhancing manufacturers’ competitiveness; and allowing greater
flexibility in dealing with unrest in the Middle East.  Output Rising  U.S. energy self-sufficiency has been steadily rising since
2005, when it hit a low of 70 percent, the data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Domestic crude oil production rose 3.6 percent
last year to an average 5.7 million barrels a day, the highest
since 2003, according to the Energy Department.  Natural gas 
output climbed to 22.4 trillion cubic feet in 2010 from 20.2
trillion in 2007, when the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
warned of the need for more imports.  Prices have fallen  more
than 80 percent since 2008.  At the same time, the efficiency of the average U.S.
passenger vehicle has helped limit demand. It increased to 29.6
miles per gallon in 2011 from 19.9 mpg in 1978, according to the
National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.  The last time the U.S. achieved energy independence was in
1952. While it still imported some petroleum, the country’s
exports, including of coal, more than offset its imports.  Environmental Concern  The expansion in oil and natural gas production isn’t
without a downside. Environmentalists say hydraulic fracturing,
or fracking -- in which a mixture of water, sand and chemicals
is shot underground to blast apart rock and free fossil fuels --
is tainting drinking water.  The drop in natural gas prices is also making the use of
alternative energy sources such as solar, wind and nuclear power
less attractive, threatening to link the U.S.’s future even more
to hydrocarbons to run the world’s largest economy.  Still, those concerns probably won’t be enough to outweigh
the benefits of greater energy independence.  Stepped-up oil output and restrained consumption will
lessen demand for imports, cutting the nation’s trade deficit
and buttressing the dollar, said Sieminski, who is currently
chief energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  Washington .  Cutting Trade Deficit  With the price of a barrel of oil at about $100, a drop of
4 million barrels a day in oil imports -- which he said could
happen by 2020, if not before -- would shave $145 billion off
the deficit. Through the first 11 months of last year, the trade
gap was $513 billion, according to the Commerce Department.
Crude for March delivery settled at $96.91 a barrel yesterday on
the  New York  Mercantile Exchange.  The impact on national security also could be significant
as the U.S. relies less on oil from the Mideast. Persian Gulf
countries accounted for 15 percent of U.S.  imports of crude oil 
and petroleum products in 2010, down from 23 percent in 1999.  “The past image of the United States as helplessly
dependent on imported oil and gas from politically unstable and
unfriendly regions of the world no longer holds,” former
Central Intelligence Agency Director John Deutch told an energy
conference last month.  Arab Oil Embargo  That dependence was underscored in October 1973, when Arab
oil producers declared an embargo in retaliation for U.S. help
for Israel in the Yom Kippur war. The  U.S. economy  contracted at
an annualized 3.5 percent rate in the first quarter of the next
year. Stock prices plunged, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropping more than 40 percent in the year following the embargo.  Car owners were forced to line up at gasoline stations to
buy fuel. President Richard Nixon announced in December that
because of the energy crisis the lights on the national
 Christmas tree  wouldn’t be turned on.  Today, signs of what former North Dakota Senator Byron Dorgan says could be a “new normal” in energy are
proliferating. The U.S. likely became a  net exporter  of refined
oil products last year for the first time since 1949. And it
will probably become a net exporter of natural gas early in the
next decade, said  Howard Gruenspecht , the acting administrator
of the EIA, the statistical arm of the Energy Department.  Cheniere Energy Partners LP (CQP)  may receive a construction and
operating permit as early as this month from the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission for the first new plant capable of
exporting natural gas by ship to be built since 1969 in the U.S.
Houston-based Cheniere said it expects the $6 billion plant to
export as much as 2.6 billion cubic feet of gas per day.  Mitchell the Pioneer  The shale-gas technology that’s boosting U.S. natural gas
production was spawned in the Barnett Shale around Dallas and
 Fort Worth  by George P. Mitchell, who was chairman and chief
executive officer of Mitchell Energy & Development Corp.  Helped by a provision inserted in the 1980 windfall oil
profits tax bill to encourage drilling for unconventional
natural gas, the Houston-based oil man pursued a trial-and-error
approach for years before succeeding in the late-1990s. The
fracking method he devised cracked the rock deep underground,
propping open small seams that allowed natural gas trapped in
tiny pores to flow into the well and up to the surface.  Recognizing that Mitchell was on to something, Devon Energy
Corp. bought his company in 2002 for about $3.3 billion and
combined it with its own expertise in directional drilling, a
method derived from offshore exploration.  Hunting for Oil  Traditional vertical drilling bores straight down, like a
straw stuck straight in the earth. Directional drilling bends
the straw, boring horizontally sometimes a mile or more through
the richest layer of rock, allowing more of the trapped fuel to
make it into the well. This slice of rock is like the kitchen,
where ancient plants and creatures came under so much pressure
that they cooked into natural gas and oil.  The oil boom a century ago tapped reservoirs of fuel that
rose out of those layers and got trapped in large pockets closer
to the earth’s surface, or used vertical wells that could get
out only a portion of the fuel stored in the rock. The new
technology has Devon and its competitors hunting beneath
decades-old oil plays long thought depleted.  About an hour’s drive north from where Devon’s soon-to-be-
completed new glass headquarters towers 50 stories above
downtown Oklahoma City, the company is exploring for oil in the
Mississippian and other formations, where oil majors once made
their fortunes. It’s racing companies such as Chesapeake Energy
Corp. and SandRidge Energy Inc. to buy leases and drill wells.  North Dakota Booming  Crude production in the U.S. is already increasing. Within
three years, domestic output could reach 7 million barrels a
day, the highest in 20 years, said  Andy Lipow , president of
Lipow Oil Associates in Houston, a consulting firm. The U.S.
produced 5.9 million barrels of crude oil a day in December,
while consuming 18.5 million barrels of petroleum products,
according to the Energy Department.  North Dakota -- the center of the so-called tight-oil
transformation -- is now the fourth largest oil-producing state,
behind Texas, Alaska and California.  The growth in oil and gas output means the U.S. will
overtake Russia as the world’s largest energy producer in the
next eight years, said Jamie Webster, senior manager for the
markets and country strategy group at PFC Energy, a Washington-
based consultant.  While U.S. consumers would still be susceptible to surges
in global  oil prices , “we’d end up sending some of that cash to
North Dakota” rather than to Saudi Arabia, said Richard Schmalensee, a professor of economics and management at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology in Cambridge.  1.6 Million Jobs  The shale gas expansion is already benefiting the economy.
In 2010, the industry supported more than 600,000 jobs,
according to a  report  that consultants IHS Global Insight
prepared for America’s Natural Gas Alliance, a group that
represents companies such as Devon Energy and Chesapeake Energy.  More than half were in the companies directly involved and
their suppliers, with the balance coming at restaurants, hotels
and other firms. By 2035, the number of jobs supported by the
industry will rise to more than 1.6 million, IHS said. Some
360,000 will be directly employed in the shale gas industry.  The oil boom is also pushing up payrolls. Unemployment in
North Dakota was 3.3 percent in December, the lowest of any
state. Hiring is so frantic that the McDonald’s Corp. restaurant
in Dickinson is offering $300 signing bonuses.  State governments are reaping benefits, too. Ohio is
considering a new impact fee on drillers and increasing the tax
charged on natural gas and other natural resources extracted,
Governor John Kasich has said.  In Texas, DeWitt County Judge Daryl Fowler has negotiated
an $8,000-per-well fee from drilling companies to pay for roads
in the district, southeast of  San Antonio .  Lot of Traffic  “It takes 270 loads of gravel just to build a pad used for
drilling a well, which means a lot of truck traffic on a lot of
roads that nobody except Grandpa Schultz and some deer hunters
may have used in the past,” said Fowler, whose non-judicial
post gives him administrative control over the county.  The federal government will see tax payments from shale gas
rise to $14.5 billion in 2015 from $9.6 billion in 2010,
according to IHS. Over the period 2010 to 2035, revenue will
total $464.9 billion, it said.  Manufacturing companies, particularly chemical makers, also
stand to win as the shale bonanza keeps natural gas cheaper in
the U.S. than in Asia or  Europe .  Dow Chemical Co., which spent a decade moving production to
the  Middle East  and Asia, is leading the biggest expansion ever
in the U.S. The chemical industry is one of the top consumers of
natural gas, using it both as a fuel and feedstock to produce
the compounds it sells.  First Since 2001  Midland, Michigan-based Dow is among companies planning to
build crackers, industrial plants typically costing $1.5 billion
that process hydrocarbons into ethylene, a plastics ingredient.  The new crackers will be the first in the U.S. since 2001,
said John Stekla, a director at Chemical Market Associates Inc.,
a Houston-based consultant.  Vancouver-based Methanex said last month it plans to take
apart the idled Chilean factory and ship it to Louisiana to
capitalize on natural gas prices.  The shift to increased energy independence is also the
result of government policies to depress oil demand.  “Vehicles are getting more efficient, and people who
travel won’t be driving more miles,” said Daniel Yergin,
chairman of IHS Cambridge Energy Research Associates.  Automakers have agreed to raise the fuel economy of the
vehicles they sell in the U.S. to a fleetwide average of 54.5
miles per gallon by 2025 under an agreement last year with the
Obama administration.  No ‘Silver Bullet’  The 2008-09 recession helped lower oil demand, and
consumption has lagged even as the economy has recovered, said
Judith Dwarkin, director of energy research for ITG Investment
Research in Calgary. Coupled with higher domestic output, “this
has translated into an import requirement of some 15.4 barrels
per person per year -- about on par with the mid-1990s.”  She cautioned against thinking that rising oil and gas
production is a “silver bullet” for solving U.S. economic
woes.  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  in New York, agreed, saying in a Jan. 20 note to clients
that oil and gas output accounts for just 1 percent of gross
domestic production and isn’t likely on its own to be able to
pull the economy into above-trend growth.  Cooling on Wind  Some companies are hurting from the shale gas glut. With
abundant supplies making it the cheapest option for new power
generation,  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  scrapped plans to expand capacity at
two nuclear plants, while Michigan utility  CMS Energy Corp. (CMS) 
canceled a $2 billion coal plant after deciding it wasn’t
financially viable.  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) , the largest U.S. wind
energy producer, shelved plans for new U.S. wind projects next
year.  Investors also are cooling on wind investment, partly
because of falling power prices. T. Boone Pickens, one of wind
power’s biggest boosters, decided to focus on promoting natural
gas-fueled trucking fleets after dropping plans for a Texas wind
farm in 2010.  “Wind on its own without incentives is far from economic
unless gas is north of $6.50,” said Travis Miller, a Chicago-
based utility analyst at Morningstar Inc. Natural gas for March
delivery settled at $2.55 per million British thermal units on
 New York Mercantile Exchange  yesterday.  When Obama lauded increased energy production in his State
of the Union speech on Jan. 24, he drew criticism from some
environmentalists opposed to fracking.  Waning Confidence  “We’re disappointed in his enthusiasm for shale gas,”
said Iris Marie Bloom, director of Protecting Our Waters in
Philadelphia. Obama “spoke about gas as if it’s better for the
environment, which it’s not.”  Deutch, who headed an advisory panel on fracking for the
Energy Department, voiced concern that public confidence in the
technology will wane if action isn’t taken to address
environmental concerns. The potential positive impact of
increased North American production are “enormous,” he said.  Higher U.S. output lessens the ability of countries like
Iran and Russia to use “energy diplomacy” as a means of
strengthening their influence, Amy Myers Jaffe, director of the
Baker Institute Energy Forum at Rice University, and her
colleagues wrote in a report last year.  While the U.S. will still have to pay attention to issues
such as Israel’s security and Islamic fundamentalism in the
Mideast, which could affect oil prices, it won’t have to be as
worried about its supplies.  Positive ‘Shock’  Carlos Pascual, special envoy and coordinator for
international energy affairs at the State Department, suggested
at a Council on Foreign Relations conference in December that
the increased production in the U.S. and elsewhere gives
Washington more “maneuverability” in using sanctions to deal
with Iran and its nuclear aspirations.  The increased U.S. production of oil and natural gas is a
“positive supply shock” for the economy and for national
security, said Philip Verleger, a former director of the office
of energy policy at the Treasury Department and founder of
PKVerleger LLC, a consulting firm in Aspen, Colorado.  “We aren’t there yet, but it looks like we’re blundering
into a solution for the energy problem,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clark Hoyt in Washington at  choyt2@bloomberg.net  