-- ANC Proposes State, Unions Pool Pensions on Mine Stakes, Business Day Says
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-02-07T07:01:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/anc-proposes-state-unions-pool-pensions-on-mine-stakes-business-day-says.html
A study commissioned by  South
Africa ’s ruling African National Congress on state intervention
in the mining industry proposes that government and labor unions
pool stakes in mining companies held by their pension funds,
 Business Day  said, citing the report.  It also proposes the creation of a sovereign wealth fund
financed by a 50 percent tax on “super profits” earned by
mines, the Johannesburg-based newspaper said. The report, which
dismisses calls for the nationalization of mines, recommends the
merger of six existing government departments, it said.  Trevor Manuel , the head of South Africa’s National Planning
Commission, yesterday said nationalizing mines would not be a
“smart strategy” for South Africa and changes to taxes or
ownership will only be made after extensive consultation with
the industry.  The ANC first commissioned the mining study after calls by
it youth wing, led by  Julius Malema , for nationalization. The
youth league said the country’s black majority isn’t benefiting
enough from the industry that is the world’s biggest producer of
platinum, chrome and manganese.  Anglo American Plc ,  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Plc own assets in the country.  A Ministry of the Economy should be created to oversee the
pooled mining stakes and should encompass departments of trade
and industry, mineral resources, energy, public enterprises,
economic development and science and technology, Business Day
said, citing the report. The report also seeks changes to the
Mining Charter to increase black ownership in mining companies
to 30 percent from 25 percent, according to the newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net 
AAL LN <Equity>
EXX SJ <Equity>
OPT SJ <Equity>
XTA LN <Equity>
BIL SJ <Equity>
RIO LN <Equity> 