-- Mine Nationalization Will Be Unmitigated Economic Disaster, ANC Study Says
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 2012-02-07T15:56:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/anc-study-says-nationalization-would-be-economic-disaster-1-.html
A study commissioned by South
Africa’s ruling  African National Congress  said nationalizing the
country’s mines would be disastrous and increased taxes on the
industry should be considered instead.  “Nationalization without compensation would require a
constitutional change and would result in a near collapse of
foreign investment and access to finance, as well as widespread
litigation by foreign investors,” according to a copy of the
study obtained by Bloomberg. “This route would clearly be an
unmitigated economic disaster for our country and our people.”  The ANC undertook the study under pressure from its youth
wing, which has said the black majority doesn’t benefit
adequately from the country’s mine resources. The proposals are
due to be considered at party conferences in June and December.  South Africa  is the world’s biggest producer of platinum,
chrome and manganese.  Anglo American Plc ,  Xstrata Plc ,  Rio Tinto
Group Plc  and  BHP Billiton Ltd.  have operations in the country.
Buying the country’s publicly traded mining companies would cost
almost 1 trillion rand ($132 billion), more than the national
government’s annual budget, the study says.  Mines Minister Susan Shabangu declined to comment on the
contents of the report. She confirmed that it argues against
nationalization and said its findings may not necessarily be
implemented.  “That’s a study,” she said in an interview in  Cape Town 
today. “We have got our own internal process. We have to have a
tax which would be competitive, especially in relation to other
mining jurisdictions. For the past decade we talk about having
missed the previous mining boom.”  Government-Labor Cooperation  The study recommends the government consider working with
labor unions to exert greater control over key mining companies.  While the state and unions have significant stakes in
mining companies, union holdings are “generally managed by
private sector fund managers, giving little scope for direct
influence,” according to the study.  “The unions should pool their mineral holdings with the
state in a special purpose vehicle that would then have a major
influence on the mining companies,” according to the study’s
proposals. “For strategic minerals, where majority state
control might be necessary, this holding could be increased to a
controlling holding but this will require compensation at market
value.”  Resources Rent Tax  The document proposed the introduction of a “resources
rent tax” on all mining operations triggered once they are
earning returns in excess of about 15 percent annually.  Such a tax at a rate of 50 percent would earn about 40
billion rand at current prices, the study said, recommending
that the proceeds “be kept in an offshore sovereign wealth
fund” to ease the strengthening of the rand during commodity
booms.  Other recommendations include a 50 percent capital gains
tax on the transfer of mineral prospecting rights and the
imposition of a 30 percent “mineral foreign shareholding
withholding tax” on companies based in foreign  tax havens .
Mining deposit concessions should be allocated through a public
tender process rather than allocated on a first-come, first-
served basis, the study said.  It called on the National Treasury to delay plans to
introduce a carbon tax, because it may discourage mining.  The study also proposed that the ministries of mineral
resources, energy, trade and industry, public enterprises,
economic development and science and technology be merged into a
“super economic ministry” to ensure management of the economy
is better aligned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  