-- Lance Armstrong Lawyer Says FBI Pursued Cyclist’s Complaint of Media Leaks
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-08T05:02:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/lance-armstrong-lawyer-says-fbi-sought-information-on-probe-leak-complaint.html
FBI agents and U.S. prosecutors asked
lawyers for seven-time Tour de France winner  Lance Armstrong 
about the cyclist’s complaint of alleged leaks about a grand
jury probe of his team, one of his attorneys said.  Elliot Peters , an attorney in San Francisco at Keker & Van
Nest LLP, said four members of Armstrong’s legal team, including
himself and attorney John Keker, were interviewed in December by
agents from  Las Vegas  about allegations that members of the
“investigation’s inner circle” may have leaked information
about the strategy of a grand jury investigation in Los Angeles
and possible charges.  “The FBI came to speak with us, asking us about our
complaints about leaks and what we knew about who had leaked,”
Peters said yesterday in a phone interview. “They had already
spoken to the investigative team.”  The complaints stemmed from media reports containing
information that Peters says only investigators could have
known.  The U.S. Attorney’s office in  Los Angeles  announced Feb. 3
that a criminal investigation of Armstrong’s team was closing
without charges being brought. Armstrong, a cancer survivor who
rode for the U.S. Postal Service-sponsored professional cycling
team, has denied using banned performance-enhancing drugs and
and has passed almost 500 tests over 20 years of competition,
one of his attorneys has said.  Las Vegas  Natalie Collins, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney’s
office in Las Vegas, said she couldn’t confirm or deny whether
prosecutors had interviewed Armstrong’s attorneys about alleged
leaks. An e-mail sent to the Las Vegas Federal Bureau of
Investigation press office wasn’t immediately returned
yesterday.  Tom Mrozek, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s office in
Los Angeles, declined to comment.  Peters and Keker alleged that purported details of the
grand jury investigation were deliberately leaked in violation
of grand jury secrecy rules, according to a July filing in
federal court in Los Angeles.  “The leaker(s) have made it abundantly clear that these
leaks come from the investigation’s inner circle,” Keker said
in the filing. The leaking was similar to what happened in a
federal investigation of steroid use among Major League Baseball
players, he said. Armstrong’s attorneys asked for a court order
directing investigators to show why they shouldn’t be held in
contempt for violating grand jury secrecy rules.  Prosecutors filed a response under seal in August,
according to filings by Armstrong’s attorneys. Peters declined
to comment on the status of Armstrong’s request, saying the case
was under seal. The leaks stopped after last year’s request for
a contempt of court finding, Peters said.  An attorney who represented the vice president of the Bay
Area Laboratory Cooperative, a California lab at the center of a
federal steroids probe, pleaded guilty in 2007 to leaking
baseball player  Barry Bonds ’s grand jury testimony to a
newspaper reporter for the  San Francisco  Chronicle and was
sentenced to 2 1/2 years in prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  