-- Apple Results Distorting S&P 500 Earnings, Golub Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-02-07T18:17:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/apple-results-distorting-s-p-500-earnings-golub.html
Record profit from iPhone and iPad
maker  Apple Inc.  is masking weakness at other Standard & Poor’s
500 Index companies during the fourth-quarter reporting season,
according to UBS AG’s  Jonathan Golub .  The degree to which S&P 500 earnings beat the average
analyst estimate drops by about two-thirds when Apple is
excluded, New York-based Golub in an interview today on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. He is the chief U.S.
market strategist at UBS.  The world’s largest company by market capitalization said
on Jan. 24 that profit in the quarter ended Dec. 31 was $13.1
billion, 36 percent more than the average analyst projection,
while revenue  beat forecasts  by $7.3 billion, the most ever. The
Cupertino, California-based company single-handedly erased a
drop in S&P 500 earnings for the October-to-December period,
turning a 4.2 percent decline into a 4.4 percent gain.  Apple’s report “obfuscates the fact that the underlying
earnings trend is really weak,” Golub said. “It’s a terrific
company, but it’s also important you get a sense of how the
average stock, the average company is doing. You want to make
sure you don’t distort that view.”  Analysts project income for S&P 500 companies climbed 4.9
percent in the fourth quarter, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Out of 280 companies that have  reported since  Jan. 9,
68 percent have exceeded analysts’ estimates by an average 2.9
percent, while profit has gained 3.5 percent.  The S&P 500’s fourth-quarter income growth rate was 1.6
percent, excluding Apple, Golub wrote in a Feb. 2 report.  Faster growth overseas, higher  oil prices  and a  weak dollar 
have boosted the perceived success of U.S. corporations in the
past year, Golub said during today’s interview.  “Now that those things are rolling off and becoming
effectively headwinds not tailwinds, and then you take out the
Apple numbers, you just see how weak the underlying trend is,”
he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  