-- Apple Offers Clues to Where Sony Needs to Head: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-02-07T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/apple-offers-clues-to-where-sony-needs-to-go-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Kazuo Hirai, charged with halting
 Sony (6758)  Corp.’s downward spiral, could be excused for asking: Do I
really want this job?  Last week, the consumer-electronics giant said it expects a
$2.9 billion  loss  in the year ending March 31, putting it on
course for an unprecedented fourth consecutive year in the red.
It’s a stunning reminder of the depths to which the onetime
pride of  Japan (TPX)  Inc. has plunged in the  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  age.  Thirty-three years after unleashing the Walkman revolution,
Sony is playing catch-up to the upheaval wrought by  Steve Jobs ’s
iPod, iPhone and iPad. When Hirai, 51, takes control in April,
he must succeed where Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer ,
69, failed. To restore Sony to anything approaching its past
glory, Hirai needs a new offering of products that consumers
view as game changers.  Indications that Hirai, a Sony lifer, is already tamping
down expectations are troubling. The clearest sign is his vow to
focus on streamlining the company to restore profitability. The
same goes for perpetuating Stringer’s obsession with selling
televisions when  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co. and LG
Electronics Inc. are steadily gobbling up market share.  Hirai faces three immediate decisions that Stringer has
largely punted forward since taking the top job in 2005.  Scrap TV  One, scrap the television unit or fix it. Apple is making a
push into TV. If its offerings create even a fraction of the
buzz generated by Apple’s phones and tablets -- a safe bet --
can Sony really compete? It has been a decade since Jobs, who
died in October, unveiled the iPod, and Sony still hasn’t come
up with a globally competitive digital music player. Should
investors trust a better outcome with TVs?  Hirai has given signs that he will be the third CEO to
pursue an integration strategy. This initiative emerged during
the tenure of Nobuyuki Idei, who stepped down in 2005, and
gained greater clarity under Stringer, who pledged to tear down
the “silos.” These cultural barriers between divisions prevent
Sony from marrying content from the acquisitions of  Columbia
Pictures  and CBS Records to its hardware.  It may be time to admit defeat and let others have the TV
market. It would free up Sony’s design engineers, once the jewel
of the tech world, to focus on other things -- like what comes
after flat screens, portable media players and smart phones.  Two, how to thrive in spite of  Japan ’s moribund economy.
Amid China’s rise, Japan is grappling to retain the prestige
built during its postwar boom. An impressive stable of globally
known enterprises such as Toyota Motor Corp., Sharp Corp. and
Sony is mainly what keeps  Japan (TPX)  on investors’ radar screens.  Yet 2011 was a uniquely dismal year: a record earthquake, a
deadly tsunami and Thai floods disrupted supply chains at the
same time that deflation deepened, demand fell and the surging
yen hurt exports. Political paralysis in Tokyo added to
corporate Japan’s woes. Domestic demand will probably be further
depressed by a doubling of consumption taxes to 10 percent in
the near future.  Japan’s answer lies overseas. The most-celebrated Japanese
name of the moment doesn’t make cars, TVs or industrial robots,
but low-cost made-in- China  apparel. Fast Retailing Co.’s  Uniqlo 
understands that deflation and a shrinking population are long-
term trends. Sony should be more aggressive about looking abroad
not only to assemble goods more affordably, but to tap new
markets.  Finding Inspiration  Three, how to surprise us. Few companies can streamline and
cost-cut their way to inspiration. To thrive in the Apple age,
Sony needs to reclaim its roots as an incubator of ideas and
creativity. Hirai must empower his key deputies to think about
destroying old paradigms and divining where the future of
technology and entertainment lies. He must act on that vision
and do so with the kind of drive and passion that elevated Sony
to such lofty heights.  A key question is whether a Japanese leader can thrive
where a foreigner didn’t. Stringer was always a Carlos Ghosn
experiment. The hope was that the first non-Japanese chief would
turn around Sony the way Ghosn, a Brazilian-born Frenchman, did
at Nissan Motor Co. No such magic came from the gambit. Instead,
Stringer, a Welsh-born U.S. citizen, presided over a 60 percent
decline in Sony’s value. If Hirai is to succeed, he must plot a
new course and do so amid a corporate culture that is averse to
change.  Sony has the talent and the innovative DNA to return to its
former glory. Hirai needs to locate it and harness it.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in  Tokyo  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  