-- Arabs Seek Safety in Dollars as Uprisings’ Euphoria Fades
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e ,   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   S a l e h   S a r r a r
-- 2012-02-08T13:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/arabs-seek-safety-in-dollars-after-uprising-euphoria-collides-with-reality.html
As he watched  Egypt ’s revolt turn
into a financial crisis that devoured 50 percent of the nation’s
foreign-currency holdings last year, Ahmed El-Rifai started
charging some clients in U.S. dollars.  The 32-year-old owner of Egyweb, a Web-development company
in Cairo, says he may also buy real estate with his Egyptian
pound savings, concerned that the loss of reserves will lead to
a devaluation. That has already sent the pound down 3.8 percent
since the start of last year.  Iraq ’s central bank says its
dollars are fueling Syria’s black market. In Tripoli, Libya,
dozens are queuing every morning at banks to buy the U.S.
currency.  A year after popular protests from Tunisia to Egypt to
 Libya  toppled rulers, transitions marked by violence have failed
to lift economic hardship. Almost two thirds of Egyptians see
the economy as the country’s biggest challenge, according to a
survey by the New York-based  International Peace Institute  in
September. Promised Western aid has yet to arrive, savings in
foreign currencies have grown and government borrowing costs
have surged.  “There is a distinct possibility that we get regression
before we see progression,” Florence Eid, the London-based
chief executive officer of Arabia Monitor, which provides
studies on the economies and financial markets of the  Middle
East  and North Africa, said by phone Jan. 11. “People are
frustrated because the reasons that they revolted against to
begin with are still there. Whoever said this was going to be
smooth was naive.”  Exchange Rate ‘Pressure’  In  Syria , where an uprising against President Bashar al- Assad’s rule is still raging, demand for dollars is so high that
Mudher Salih, the deputy central bank governor of neighboring
Iraq, said Jan. 10 that traders were buying dollars in his
country to sell them illegally next door.  Since the ouster of President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali more
than a year ago, the Tunisian dinar, which is pegged to a basket
of currencies, has lost 3.9 percent. A balance of payments
deficit of about 7 percent of economic output may lead to
“pressure on the exchange rate,” central bank Governor
Mustapha Kamel Nabli said in an interview at the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , on Jan. 27.  ‘Not a Revolution’  Time savings and foreign-currency deposits in Tunisia rose
8.3 percent in the first 11 months of 2011, according to
International Monetary Fund  data on Bloomberg . The benchmark
 stock index  fell 7.6 percent last year, the first annual loss
since 2002. The market now has a capitalization of $9.6 billion,
compared with $353 billion for  Saudi Arabia , the biggest Arab
bourse, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In Libya, where rebels killed  Muammar Qaddafi  in October,
the dinar tumbled 20 percent against the dollar on the black
market last year because of the central bank’s inability to sell
enough foreign currency, the IMF said in a Jan. 26 report after
a visit to the holder of  Africa ’s biggest oil reserves.  Egypt is in an “uprising, not a revolution, because change
hasn’t been complete,” said El-Rifai. Foreign-currency deposits
in local banks rose 15 percent in 2011 after the ouster of
President  Hosni Mubarak ,  central bank data  show.  The pound may weaken 16 percent in the next 12 months,
according to non-deliverable forward contracts, which provide
guidance for investors’ expectations. Economic growth slowed to
0.2 percent in the third quarter from 5.5 percent a year
earlier, amid clashes between security forces and protesters
seeking an immediate handover of power from the military to
civilians.  Stock Slump  Foreigners sold $7.5 billion in Egyptian Treasury bills and
bonds in the first nine months of 2011 after buying $8.6 billion
the previous year, according to the most recent central bank
data. The country’s international reserves tumbled 50 percent in
2011 to $18.1 billion. They fell to $16.4 billion in January,
according to central bank data released Feb. 7.  The  benchmark stock index  plummeted 49 percent last year,
the worst since 2008. While the stock market has started to
recover, government borrowing costs have continued to increase,
with the yield on the one-year treasury bills rising 532 basis
point, or 5.32 percentage points, since the start of the
uprising to a record 15.91 percent.  The EGX 30 Index has gained 30 percent this year. The yield
on the 5.75 percent dollar bonds due April 2020, which touched a
record 8.79 percent on Jan. 11, has dropped to 7.16 percent
today after the country inaugurated its first elected parliament
following Mubarak’s ouster and the government requested a $3.2
billion IMF loan that the interim military rulers rejected last
year.  Libyan Spreads  The spread between the official and parallel exchange rates
in Libya has narrowed to below 10 percent as of Jan. 15, the IMF
said, after Western governments started to release the country’s
foreign holdings, frozen after the start of the rebellion. The
yield on  Tunisia ’s 6.25 percent dollar bond due February 2013
fell 31 basis points this year to 4.38 percent, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg, after the country staged
parliamentary and presidential elections.  “There is a general long-term investor trust in Tunisia,”
Philippe Dauba-Pantanacce, Dubai-based senior economist at
Standard Chartered Plc, wrote in an e-mail. “We share that view
and are confident that the return of political stability will
lay down the foundation for an economic recovery.”  Ennahda, an Islamist party that was banned under Ben Ali,
won parliamentary elections in Tunisia. Prime Minister Hammadi
Jebali sought to reassure investors at the World Economic Forum
by stressing that the government will ensure freedom and an
independent judiciary. Authorities are targeting an economic
growth rate as high as 4.5 percent, Nabli, the central bank
governor, said in Davos last month.  Job Creation  Still, the pace of expansion will only lead to little  job
creation , Nabli said, adding that unemployment was probably more
than 18 percent in a country that had an uprising in part due to
joblessness.  Global aid hasn’t been forthcoming. Interim Prime Minister
Kamal el-Ganzouri said on Jan. 30 Egypt has yet to receive
Western aid pledged to Egypt and Tunisia by the Group of Eight
major economies in May last year. Saudi Arabia and Qatar have
provided $1 billion of at least $7 billion that was promised by
Arab donors, he said.  One reason why aid has remained scarce is “political
uncertainty,” Liz Martins, a Dubai-based senior economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc, said in an e-mailed answer to questions Jan.
31. “How do you lend over the long term to a government that
may not be there in a few months?”  Mobilizing Aid  After its summit in Deauville,  France  last year, the Group
of Eight set up a “partnership” with the countries in the
region to help the transition toward democracy. A U.S.
government delegation said in Cairo last month America, the
current G8 head, was looking forward to an Egyptian economic
program that has popular support to help mobilize aid, Egypt’s
 Finance Ministry  said in a Jan. 12 statement.  Relations between the two countries have since soured after
Egypt sent 43 people working for non-governmental organizations,
including 19 Americans, to trial over charges they have received
illegal funding. Egypt’s actions “could have consequences” for
American aid to Egypt, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said
Feb. 6. Egypt has received an average of $2 billion a year from
the U.S. since signing a peace treaty with  Israel  in 1979.  As it awaits foreign aid, the country is planning to raise
at least $2 billion from the sale of Islamic bonds and
certificates of deposits to citizens abroad within the next two
weeks, Finance Minister Momtaz El-Saieed said by phone Feb. 6.  Arab Support  Tunisia and Egypt are also anticipating more Arab support.
Saudi Arabia is ready to provide Egypt with more assistance, the
kingdom’s Finance Minister Ibrahim Al-Assaf said in a Jan. 27
interview at the World Economic Forum. Tunisia will seek about
$5 billion in external financing in 2012, of which $500 million
may come from the sale of dollar-denominated treasury bills in a
private placement to the government of Qatar, Nabli said.  In the meantime, Mohamed Saidi, 37, who runs a clothing
business, says he buys euros from unofficial dealers at as much
as 13 percent above the official exchange rate. After the
revolt, “currency traders have been wandering freely” in
Tunis, he said in an interview. Nabli disputed the assertion and
said banks have no restrictions on selling foreign currencies.  In neighboring Libya, people seek dollars from banks, some
for business purposes, others to sell on the black market.  ‘Hard Work’  Mohamed El-Atrash, a 45 year-old owner of a textile
factory, says he has to line up for hours to get dollars he
needs to import raw materials. Ali Hadiya, a 35 year-old
government employee, says he waits every day to buy dollars and
sell them in the black market for profit “because my salary
isn’t enough.”  As in Tunisia and Egypt, the revolts in Libya boosted
Islamists persecuted under the former regimes.  For Egypt’s El-Rifai, the victory of Islamist groups in
parliament elections has him concerned about “the direction the
country is heading into.”  “I worry that they will abuse power to stay forever,” he
said. The  Muslim Brotherhood , whose party won the most seats,
has repeatedly said it will stick to democracy.  Some aren’t taking chances. Abdulkadir Alroubaiy, a 65
year-old Lebanese doctor, flew to Cairo in December to pull out
470,000 Egyptian pounds he had deposited at the state-owned
National Bank of Egypt to benefit from  interest rates  that are
higher than in Lebanon.  After four days the bank, the Arab country’s biggest by
assets, gave him the approval to take the money out in two equal
installments separated by two months.  “This money is all I have from years of hard work,” he
said by phone. “No one at the bank could explain to me why it
has to take so long to get my money, but I am glad I was able to
salvage what I did.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net 
Saleh Sarrar in Tripoli via the Dubai newsroom  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  