-- Arbabsiar in Talks for ‘Disposition’ of Saudi Ambassador Bomb-Plot Case
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-07T01:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/arbabsiar-in-talks-for-disposition-of-saudi-ambassador-bomb-plot-case.html
A lawyer for the Iranian-American car
salesman accused of plotting to assassinate the Saudi ambassador
to the U.S. lost a bid for a delay in the case to discuss a
possible resolution.  U.S. District Judge John Keenan in  Manhattan  rejected a
request for a 30-day adjournment in the prosecution of Manssor
Arbabsiar sought by Sabrina Shroff, his court-appointed
attorney. She said the request was made “with the consent of
the government.”  Shroff said in a letter to the court dated Feb. 5 that the
postponement would allow both sides to prepare for trial and
give time to “continue discussions regarding a possible
disposition” of the criminal case.  “Excluding time will best serve the ends of justice and
outweigh the best interests of the public and the defendant,”
Shroff said in the letter. Keenan rejected Shroff’s request
without explanation.  Arbabsiar and Gholam Shakuri, who the U.S. said was a
member of  Iran ’s Qods Force, were charged in a five-count
indictment filed Oct. 20 with plotting to hire someone from a
Mexican drug cartel to kill Ambassador Adel Al-Jubeir in the
U.S. The man they approached was actually a U.S. informant,
prosecutors said.  Qods Force  The U.S. State Department has described the Qods Force as
an arm of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. Others
from the Qods Force in Iran were also involved and helped
bankroll the plot, which was to have cost $1.5 million and be
carried out in the U.S., prosecutors said.  Arbabsiar has pleaded not guilty. He’s the only defendant
in U.S. custody. Prosecutors said Shakuri is at large.  At Arbabsiar’s October arraignment, Keenan said there would
probably be an extensive pretrial exchange of evidence,
including secretly taped conversations made by investigators
working with the U.S. Drug Enforcement Administration and the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation . Some of the documents needed to
be translated.  Keenan said some material included statements that
Arbabsiar made.  “There are alleged admissions of guilt which may be
challenged,” he said.  Needs Time  Shroff said in the letter that the government had produced
most statements Arbabsiar made to authorities after his arrest
and she needed time to review them with her client.  She didn’t return voice-mail or e-mail messages at her
office after business hours seeking comment on the ruling.
Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for the Manhattan U.S.
Attorney’s Office, declined to comment.  The person Arbabsiar and Shakuri recruited to kill the
ambassador was secretly working for the DEA, prosecutors said in
October. Arbabsiar told the informant his cousin was a “big
general” in Iran who focused on matters outside of that
country, they said.  The two men discussed killing the ambassador by blowing up
a restaurant that he frequented, prosecutors said. Other targets
included “foreign government facilities associated with  Saudi
Arabia  and with another country,” the U.S. said.  The case is U.S. v. Arbabsiar, 11-cr-00897, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  ---Editors:  Andrew Dunn , Glenn Holdcraft  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 