-- ArcelorMittal in Line With Estimates, Sees Better First Half
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-02-07T18:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/arcelormittal-earnings-in-line-with-estimates.html
ArcelorMittal , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, posted fourth-quarter profit that was in line with
analyst estimates and forecast an improvement in the first half.  Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization fell to $1.71 billion from $1.85 billion a year
earlier, compared with the $1.68 billion median  estimate  of 16
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. First-half Ebitda is likely to
exceed results in the prior six months, while still being lower
than a year earlier, the company said today in a statement.  “Looking ahead to 2012, the situation in Europe remains a
live concern,” Chief Executive Officer  Lakshmi Mittal  said in
the statement. “Despite the continued uncertainty in this
market, however, we are seeing an improvement in sentiment
compared with the fourth quarter.”  ArcelorMittal (MT) ’s guidance implies first-half Ebitda of $4.1
billion to $6 billion. The  shares  rose 3.3 percent to 16.69
euros at the close in Amsterdam.  The company posted its lowest quarterly profit in two years
as cooling economies in  China  and Europe sapped demand for
steel, sending prices lower. Nippon Steel Corp.,  Japan ’s largest
producer, reported its first loss in three quarters last month
and forecast declining use of the alloy.  Prices Decline  Prices for hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark product used
in vehicles and buildings, have fallen for three straight
quarters and slumped to the lowest in 13 months in December,
according to Steel Business Briefing’s global price index.  ArcelorMittal has “temporarily suspended” an increase in
steel capital spending to focus its projected $4 billion to $4.5
billion of investment in 2012 on mining growth. The company has
put two steel-plant expansions in  Brazil  on hold because of a
“strong” Brazilian currency and weaker growth than forecast,
Chief Financial Officer  Aditya Mittal  said today on a conference
call. The company also delayed an expansion at its Canada unit.  Global steel consumption will rise 4.5 percent this year,
less than the 5.4 percent forecast in October by the World Steel
Association, according to the median estimate of 14 steelmakers,
analysts and traders surveyed by Bloomberg. Growth may be as low
as 1.2 percent, Bloomberg Industries analysis shows.  China Vs Europe  ArcelorMittal said steel demand growth may slow to as
little as 4.5 percent in 2012 from 6.3 percent in 2011. Chinese
consumption is likely to rise at 5.2 percent, while European
demand is forecast to decline by 1.3 percent in 2012, he said.  Europe  is in a “recessionary environment,” he said. “We
expect overall apparent demand to be down due to the
recessionary macroeconomic situation.”  Steel shipments fell 2.4 percent in the fourth quarter from
the prior three months to 20.6 million metric tons. First-half
shipments will be similar to those a year earlier, while mining
volumes will exceed those in the comparable period,
ArcelorMittal said.  Net debt fell by $2.4 billion in the fourth quarter to
$22.5 billion. A further reduction is anticipated from “non-
core” asset sales, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  