-- ArcelorMittal South Africa Falls After Wider-Than-Expected Full-Year Loss
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-02-07T16:33:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/arcelormittal-south-africa-posts-loss-of-6-9-million-for-the-year-in-2011.html
ArcelorMittal South Africa Ltd. , the
continent’s biggest steelmaker, declined for a third day in
Johannesburg trading after posting a worse-than-expected loss.  The shares  slid  1.9 percent to 66.30 rand, closing at its
lowest level since Dec. 20. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index
was 0.6 percent lower. The full-year loss excluding one-time
items was 13 cents (1.7 U.S. cents) a share, from a profit of
3.43 rand a year earlier, the Vanderbijlpark-based company said
today in a statement. The result missed the average estimate of
10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg for a profit of 64 cents.  “It was a terrible fourth quarter, worse than expected,”
Mohamed Kharva, an analyst at Nedgroup Securities Ltd., said by
phone from  Cape Town . “There are no shining stars on the
horizon for this company in the next six to nine months.”
Kharva recommends investors sell the stock.  While there are signs local sales are improving, the South
African construction outlook is “bleak,” Chief Executive
Officer Nonkululeko Nyembezi-Heita said in a presentation to
investors. Construction and building accounts for about 61
percent of domestic steel consumption, the company said.  Capital spending  may drop to about 1 billion rand from 1.2
billion rand last year, Nyembezi-Heita said. The company had a
loss excluding one-time items of 260 million rand in the final
quarter of 2011, after a 497 million-rand loss a year earlier.  “Operating costs were severely affected by significant
price escalations for raw materials and electricity,” the
company  said . “A major structural failure of the blast furnace
dust catcher at Newcastle negatively impacted production.”  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, is the
largest shareholder of the South African company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  