-- Argentina to Raise U.K. ‘Militarization’ of Falklands at UN
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-08T11:41:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/argentina-to-protest-u-k-s-military-presence-near-falkland-islands-to-un.html
Argentina will lodge a complaint with
the  United Nations Security Council  over the U.K.’s
“militarization” of the southern Atlantic Ocean around the
Falkland Islands, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said.  The Foreign Ministry will protest Britain’s decision to
send one of its newest destroyers, HMS Dauntless, to the
islands, to replace an older ship at the same time Prince
William was deployed to the archipelago, Fernandez said late
yesterday in Buenos Aires. The president has rounded up fresh
support in  Latin America  for her position in recent weeks.
Britain’s government rejected the charge.  “This is a regional and global issue because they are
militarizing the South Atlantic once again,” Fernandez, 58,
told an audience at the presidential palace that included her
Cabinet and the nation’s military chiefs. “There is no other
way to interpret the decision to send a destroyer, a huge and
modern destroyer, to accompany the royal heir, whom we would
have loved to see in civilian clothing instead of a military
uniform.”  The dispute between  Argentina  and the U.K., which went to
war over the islands in 1982, deepened in 2010 after four
British companies announced plans to search for oil around the
Falklands, located about 480 kilometers (280 miles) from the
South American mainland. The explorers are targeting 8.3 billion
barrels in the waters this year, three times the U.K.’s
reserves.  ‘Posture Remains Unchanged’  “We’re not militarizing the South Atlantic,” Prime
Minister  David Cameron ’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told
reporters in  London  today. “Our defense posture remains
unchanged.”  Sheriff said that “the people of the Falklands choose to
be British. Their right to self-determination is a principle
enshrined in the UN charter.”  Cameron told lawmakers on Jan. 18 that Argentina’s behavior
toward the islands is “like colonialism.”  London-based  Borders & Southern Petroleum Plc  will drill
the Stebbing prospect this month, one of three Falkland areas
that Morgan Stanley ranks among the world’s top 15 offshore
prospects this year.  Rockhopper Exploration Plc (RKH) , based in Salisbury,  England , is
seeking partners for the $2 billion development of its Sea Lion
field, the islands’ first economically viable oil find.  Military Pilot  Tensions between the two countries escalated over William’s
arrival at the islands last week for a tour of duty as a
military pilot. Argentina’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement
last week that Argentines regret that William traveled to the
islands with the “uniform of a conqueror.”  “We are people that have suffered too much violence in our
country, we are not attracted by games of guns and wars,”
Fernandez said at the ceremony, in which she ordered a three-
decade old report on the war to be reviewed and declassified.  In a show of support for Argentina’s claim,  Brazil ,
Uruguay,  Paraguay ,  Nicaragua , Cuba and Antigua and Barbuda have
agreed to ban ships flying the Falkland Islands flag from their
ports.  Argentina traces its ties to the Falklands to 1820 when
Colonel David Jewett claimed possession of the islands in the
name of the United Provinces of the Rio de la Plata. Britain
assumed military control of the archipelago in 1833, evicting
Argentine authorities the following year.  Argentine military dictator Leopoldo Galtieri ordered the
invasion of the Malvinas, as the Falklands are known in
Argentina, on April 2, 1982. Argentine troops were defeated by
British forces on June 14 that year. The war bolstered the
government of U.K. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, known as
“The Iron Lady,” and helped her win re-election in 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  