-- Arming the Opposition Is Wrong Way to Unseat Syria’s Assad: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-07T00:15:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/arming-the-opposition-is-wrong-way-to-unseat-syria-s-assad-view.html
The veto by Russia and China of a
United Nations resolution urging a political transition in  Syria 
and an end to the bloodshed there was, as U.S. Secretary of
State  Hillary Clinton  rightly put it, “a travesty.” The
challenge now is to stop travesty from turning into tragedy.  President  Barack Obama  has seemingly ruled out “outside
military intervention” for now. But given the Bashar al-Assad
government’s murderous assaults, the outcome of Saturday’s UN
vote has created a powerful temptation to arm Syria’s
opposition, with the legitimate goal that its members should be
able to defend themselves against a murderous regime.  After all, Qatar and other allies armed the Libyan
opposition during its revolt last year, which was followed up
with direct allied air support. And as Khalid Al Attiyah,
Qatar’s minister of state for foreign affairs, so acidly put it,
 Russia  and China have now given the Syrian regime “a license to
kill.”  That temptation to arm the opposition, however, should be
resisted. Syria is not Libya. High on the list of differences:
the  fault lines  in Syrian society are sectarian. If the  Arab
League , the U.S. or the North Atlantic Treaty Organization were
to arm the rebels, that could accelerate the downfall of Assad,
but it would also ensure a much broader civil war. Syria’s Sunni
majority might mark its victory by taking revenge on the
minority Alawites and Christians who have largely stood with the
regime. Those who armed them would bear some of the
responsibility.  Moreover, although Syria doesn’t have a significant amount
of oil, it is far more strategically important than  Libya . Syria
borders not just Iraq, Lebanon and  Turkey  -- countries that have
important Sunni-Shiite, or Sunni-Alawite divides -- but also
Israel and Jordan. It has close ties to Hezbollah and  Iran , and
hosts a Russian naval base at the Mediterranean port of Tartus.  In other words, unlike Libya’s Muammar Qaddafi, Syria’s
dictator has powerful allies. It’s why NATO and the U.S. have
long ruled out direct Libya-style military intervention in
Syria. It’s why Turkey has been reluctant, despite fervent
prompting from the Syrian opposition, to create a buffer zone on
its border with Syria. Opposition activists in Syria think
Assad’s military would disintegrate as soon as deserters knew
they had a safe place to go, but for the Turks that would mean
either arming the Syrian opposition or sending the Turkish
military to war to maintain the zone. There are also practical
concerns: The Syrian rebels, unlike in Libya, are widely
dispersed and don’t control a geographic area, meaning that
Western air support would be of little efficacy.  Complexity is no excuse for inaction. And the failure of
the Security Council resolution doesn’t absolve its members of
their “ responsibility to protect ” -- the principle, gaining
traction within the UN, that the international community must
respond collectively when a state wages war on its own
population.  Short of military intervention, there are many things that
can be done to apply that emerging consensus to Syria. We
support the creation of a contact group that would coordinate
pressure on the Syrian regime, and think that, as part of that
process, the U.S. should designate (as it did in Libya) a formal
liaison with Syrian opposition groups. We urge the European
Union’s Foreign Affairs Council to tighten sanctions on Syria at
its meeting this month, and the  U.S. Senate  to speedily consider
the Syria sanctions legislation now before it.  Lost in the defeat of the Security Council resolution was
news of its support by  South Africa  and  India , two countries
known for their reluctance to back foreign interventions. Now
 China  and Russia must be brought round to the right side of
history; already, they have felt pushed by public opinion to
defend their vetoes.  The attacks on civilians in Syria are barbaric. Yet as
morally compelling as arming the Syrian opposition might seem,
doing so at this stage would just be a prelude to a greater
slaughter and transform an Arab Spring uprising into a divisive
proxy war over geopolicy. Strengthening the coalition against
Assad is the key to forcing his ouster without risking the mass
killing of even more innocent people.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 