-- Harper Seeks China Access for Canada Finance With Oil as Lever
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-02-07T17:10:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/harper-seeks-china-access-for-canadian-finance-with-oil-providing-leverage.html
Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  begins
the official part of his second visit to China in just over two
years today as Canada seeks to deepen energy ties and win
business for companies such as  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC)   Harper, who is leading a delegation of more than 40
Canadian executives, will meet Premier Wen Jiabao today in
Beijing, hold talks with President Hu Jintao tomorrow and meet
local Communist Party officials over the next four days as he
seeks to assure Chinese leaders the Asian country is welcome to
invest in Canadian natural resources. Harper will also push for
greater access to China for Canadian banks, insurers and firms
such as Bombardier Inc., a Montreal-based plane and train maker.  Harper will be “impressing upon the Chinese government and
firms Canada’s openness to Chinese investment in our economy,”
Andrew MacDougall, a spokesman for Harper, said in an interview.
He will also seek “to expand and deepen the strategic
partnership between our two countries, including by discussing
opportunities to improve the investment climate for Canadian
firms operating in  China .”  Harper, who last month called diversifying Canada’s energy
exports a “national priority,” is seeking to reduce the
country’s reliance on the U.S., after President  Barack Obama 
rejected TransCanada Corp.’s $7 billion Keystone XL pipeline to
ship Canadian oil to the  Gulf Coast .  Executives in Delegation  Harper’s delegation includes Patrick Daniel, head of
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB) , the pipeline company that plans to build a link
between  Alberta ’s oil reserves and the Pacific coast; Tim Gitzel, chief executive of Cameco Corp., the world’s largest
uranium producer; Marcel Coutu, chief executive officer of
Canadian Oil Sands Ltd., which holds a stake in the Syncrude oil
venture along with China Petrochemical Corp.; and executives
from Scotiabank and Manulife.  Harper will meet a group of Canadian executives today
before seeing Wen at Beijing’s Great Hall of the People.  Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister  John Baird , Natural
Resource Minister Joe Oliver, Agriculture Minister Gerry Ritz
and Trade Minister Ed Fast are also on the trip.  Harper’s Beijing itinerary also includes a meeting tomorrow
with Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  and an address to the Canada-China
Business Forum. The Canadian leader flies on Feb. 10 to
Guangzhou, capital of Guangdong, the nation’s most populous
province, where he’ll meet Communist Party Secretary Wang Yang
and give the keynote address at a dinner organized by Canadian
chambers of commerce in the region.  On Saturday, Harper flies inland to the municipality of
Chongqing, where he will meet local Party officials, and visit
the city’s port and zoo, before departing for Ottawa.  ‘Market Access Issues’  “As with all partnerships and trading relationships, there
are challenges,” Harper said in an interview last week with
Xinhua, according to a transcript provided by the  news agency .
“There are several market access issues for Canadian companies
that I hope can be resolved in the near future.”  John Manley , head of  Canada ’s Council of Chief Executives,
said in a Nov. 21 speech in Beijing that China should ease
restrictions in sectors such as financial services and mining.  “This lack of openness is an obvious source of frustration
for Canadian investors, particularly given the recent dramatic
increase in Chinese investment in Canada,” Manley  said .
“Canadian investors ought to be afforded the same access to
China that Chinese investors are afforded.”  ‘State Capitalism’  China has also faced criticism from the U.S. and the
European Union for protecting state-owned enterprises and
domestic industry, prompting U.S. Ambassador to China  Gary Locke 
to accuse it last year of “embracing state capitalism more
strongly each year.”  In the Xinhua interview, Harper called on China to follow
through on pledges made at the Group of 20 meeting in November
to allow its currency to trade more freely.  “China committed to move more rapidly toward a market-
determined exchange rate system, enhance exchange rate
flexibility to reflect underlying fundamentals, and refrain from
competitive devaluation of its currency.” Harper said. “It is
important for the credibility of China’s policy makers and the
G-20 that China follows through on its commitments.”  Economic ties between China and Canada, which holds the
world’s third-largest oil reserves, have been lopsided and
meager on investment. Canadian direct investment in China was
C$4.8 billion ($4.8 billion) in 2010, less than 1 percent of
Canada’s total, and about one-third the level of investment in
Canada by Chinese firms, Statistics Canada data show. With 99
percent of oil exports going to the U.S., Canada’s trade deficit
with China was C$147.5 billion from 2006 to 2010,  Industry
Canada  says.  Cooler Ties  Relations between Canada and China cooled in 2006 after
Harper criticized China’s human-rights record, telling reporters
that promoting trade shouldn’t require the government “to sell
out important Canadian values.” A year later, new foreign
investment rules, which put additional scrutiny on state-owned
entities, raised questions about whether Canada was targeting
China. Harper then chose to skip the 2008 Beijing Olympics.  The relationship began to improve in 2009 with trips to
China by Canadian government officials including Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty , Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  and
chief bank regulator Julie Dickson, to promote the country’s
banks and insurers.  Minority Stakes  Canadian financial institutions have tried to expand in
 Asia ’s largest economy, with investment mainly limited to joint
ventures and minority stakes, such as  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS) ’s
C$719 million purchase of 20 percent of Bank of Guangzhou.  The bank bought a minority stake in Xi’an City commercial
bank with International Finance Corp. in 2004, which grew to
14.8 percent in 2009. At the end of 2011, Scotiabank increased
its stake further to 18.1 percent.  “It behooves them to try to get in there as the middle
class is starting to get a little bit more sophisticated on its
savings,” said  John Aiken , a bank and insurance analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in Toronto. “In a perfect world, I’m fairly
certain that they’d love to go in, set up their own proprietary
shop and grow from there but the nature of China, the
regulators, they preclude them from doing such.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  