-- Stocks in U.S. Advance as Euro Strengthens on Greece Debt-Rescue Optimism
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-02-07T21:14:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/asia-stocks-climb-on-earnings-rba-rate-decision.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  to the highest level since May 2008,
while Treasuries fell and the euro strengthened as  Greece ’s
government made progress on measures to secure international
aid. Crude oil led gains in commodities.  The Dow increased 33.07 points, or 0.3 percent, to close at
12,878.2 at 4 p.m. in New York and the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index increased 0.2 percent  after slipping  as much as 0.6
percent earlier. Ten-year Treasury yields increased seven basis
points to 1.98 percent and the euro advanced 0.9 percent to
$1.3248, its strongest level in almost two months. Oil rallied
1.5 percent, the most in three weeks, to $98.41 a barrel.  Greece’s government and international creditors are working
on the final draft of an agreement on budget and structural
measures needed to free up a second aid package, a Greek
official said. Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  plans to convene
the nation’s political leaders tomorrow morning to seek
consensus on the required measures, as unions called a strike to
protest and European leaders pressed Greece to reach a deal.  “Greece is on the front page again,” Paul Zemsky, the New
York-based head of asset allocation for ING Investment
Management, said in a telephone interview. His firm oversees
$160 billion. “It’s been the theme for at least a year that you
had to take these governments near the edge of the abyss and
look into it before they would agree to additional cuts or
fiscal tightening or other types of concessions to get money.”  Six-Month High  The  S&P 500  closed at a seven-month high. The index is up
more than 7 percent so far in 2012 and has rallied almost 23
percent from last year’s low in October amid improving economic
data and better-than-estimated earnings.  Coca-Cola Co.  helped lead gains in the Dow today after the
world’s largest soft-drink maker reported fourth-quarter profit
that topped analysts’ estimates as teas and juices boosted sales
in Asia.  Yum! Brands Inc. , owner of the KFC and Taco Bell fast-food
chains, climbed 2.6 percent after reporting a 30 percent
increase in profit. McDonald’s Corp., which is scheduled to
report same-store sales tomorrow, rose 1.4 percent.  Walgreen
Co. (WAG) , the largest U.S. drugstore chain, slipped 2.4 percent after
Citigroup Inc. cut its  recommendation  for the shares.  Walt Disney Co. was among seven companies in the  S&P 500 
scheduled to  release earnings  after markets close today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profits have beaten
estimates at about 68 percent of the 280 companies in the S&P
500 that have released results since Jan. 9, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Earnings-per-share have increased 3.5 percent
for the group on a 6.5 percent increase in sales.  Treasury Auction  U.S. Treasuries remained lower after the U.S. sold $32
billion of three-year notes in the first of three auctions this
week totaling $72 billion. Existing three-year yields increased
three basis points to 0.34 percent. The dollar weakened against
13 of 16 major peers.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  repeated that the
job market is still far from healthy after signs of economic
improvement over the past year, and he called on U.S. lawmakers
to reduce the long-term  budget deficit .  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” Bernanke said in
testimony prepared for the Senate Budget Committee that is
identical to remarks he gave on Feb. 2 to the House Budget
panel. “Particularly troubling is the unusually high level of
long-term unemployment.” The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to
8.3 percent in January, a government report showed last week.  Commodities Gain  Silver, aluminum and gold climbed at least 1.4 percent for
the biggest gains, after oil, among the 24 commodities tracked
by the S&P GSCI Index. The commodities gauge increased 0.7
percent to the highest level since August. Corn fell for a
second day and soybeans dropped for the first time in a week as
rain improved prospects for crops in Argentina and  Brazil  that
have been hurt by unusually dry weather.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  slipped 0.3 percent, paring a
loss of as much as 1 percent. Swatch Group AG sank almost 4
percent after the largest Swiss watch maker reported 2011
operating profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Alfa Laval AB ,
the world’s biggest maker of heat exchangers, sank 7.1 percent
as fourth-quarter orders declined from the previous three months
because of contraction in the shipbuilding industry.  Greek Talks  Greek Prime Minister Papademos will meet with the leaders
of the three parties supporting his government tomorrow morning,
instead of tonight as previously scheduled, a spokeswoman for
his office said. Papademos will meet later today instead with
the heads of the so-called troika, who represent the European
Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund , to put the final touches to a document on terms
required from Greece to qualify for a second rescue package, the
spokeswoman said.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  added 0.1 percent as gains
in Brazil and Colombia were offset by declines in  Asia . The Hang
Seng  China  Enterprises Index of mainland companies listed in
 Hong Kong  dropped 0.6 percent. The Shanghai Composite Index slid
1.7 percent, the most in six weeks, after China’s government
said industrial output growth is likely to slow this quarter as
the world economy cools and  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens.  ‘Hard Landing’  A “hard landing” for China is a key risk for the global
economy,  Andrew Colquhoun , the Hong Kong-based head of Asia-
Pacific ratings for  Fitch Ratings , said in an e-mail.  The yen weakened versus all 16 most actively traded peers
after Finance Ministry data released today showed  Japan 
conducted 1.02 trillion yen ($13.3 billion) worth of unannounced
intervention during the first four days of November, after
selling a record 8.07 trillion yen on Oct. 31, when the yen
climbed to a post World War II high of 75.35 per dollar.  The Australian dollar appreciated 0.7 percent to $1.0804
after the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  signaled optimism global
economic growth will strengthen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  