-- Asia Stocks at Five-Month High as Greece Drags on Global Outlook
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-02-07T11:52:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/asian-stocks-little-changed-as-greece-starts-second-round-of-bailout-talks.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the regional
benchmark index trading near a five month high, as Greek
lawmakers worked to secure a bailout amid warnings  Europe ’s
crisis threatens global demand.  Japan Tobacco Inc. paced advancing shares after the company
raised its earnings forecast. Cochlear Ltd., maker of the
world’s top-selling ear implant, rose the most in seven weeks in
Sydney trading after posting a narrower-than-estimated first-
half loss.  Chinese stocks  dropped as the Ministry of Industry
and Information Technology said the world’s second-largest
economy faces more uncertainty at home and abroad.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  rose 0.1 percent to 124.98 at
8:48 p.m. in  Tokyo  after falling as much as 0.2 percent and
rising as much as 0.3 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index
slipped 0.1 percent while Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average 
retreated 0.1 percent at the close. The broader Topix Index
advanced 0.4 percent.  “Things aren’t great but it’s getting better,” said  Angus
Gluskie , who oversees about $350 million as managing director at
White Funds Management in Sydney. “Investors have been very
pessimistic about Europe and we are starting to see some small
incremental positives.  Greece  is reasonably critical for the
market, at this stage we all think they will come up with some
sort of agreement.”  In Australia, the S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 0.5 percent after
the nation’s central bank unexpectedly kept its benchmark
 interest rate  unchanged. South Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 0.4
percent today.  Negotiations  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  began a second round
of negotiations with international creditors in  Athens  to stave
off default as political leaders waver on budget measures. The
country still needs to detail 600 million euros ($787 million)
of fiscal measures for 2012, a government official said in
Athens yesterday.  Japan  Tobacco gained 5.5 percent to 406,500 yen in Tokyo
after the company raised its annual profit forecast as sales
recovered faster than expected after the March earthquake. Full-
year revenue is expected to rise 4.4 percent.  Japanese shipping companies also advanced after the Baltic
Dry Index, a gauge of cargo rates, climbed for the first time
since Dec. 12. Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd. advanced 1.3 percent
to 157 yen, Nippon Yusen K.K. increased 2.4 percent to 218 yen
and Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd. gained 2.2 percent to 329 yen.  Cochlear Ltd. jumped 7.6 percent to A$62.52 in Sydney after
the maker of the world’s top-selling ear implant reported a
first-half loss of A$20.4 million, smaller than analyst
estimates.  China Growth Threat  Shanghai ’s Composite Index fell 1.7 percent as Zhu Hongren,
spokesman for the Ministry of Industry and  Information
Technology , told a press briefing in Beijing that  China ’s
industrial output growth is likely to slow.  “The global economy is slowing down, Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis is deepening and the downside risks to the world
economy are rising with international demand still slack and
global commodities and financial markets continuing to be
volatile,” the ministry said in a statement issued before
today’s briefing.  The comments come a day after the  International Monetary
Fund  estimated China’s economic expansion could slow by 4
percentage points from the fund’s current projection of 8.2
percent this year should Europe’s crisis worsen.  Copper, Banks  Jiangxi Copper Co. declined 1.9 percent to HK$20.30,
leading commodity producers lower as copper retreated on the
London Metal Exchange.  Elsewhere, National  Australia  Bank Ltd. lost 4 percent to
A$23.21 after Chief Executive Officer Cameron Clyne said
earnings were hurt by lower lending margins and a jump in bad
debts in the U.K. The bank today reported cash profit for the
three months ended Dec. 31 of A$1.4 billion ($1.5 billion).
That’s up 7.7 percent from a year earlier.  HTC Corp. lost 6.9 percent to NT$513 in Taiwan, the worst
performer on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index, after the region’s
second-largest smartphone maker forecast first-quarter revenue
that missed analyst estimates as it faces tougher competition in
the U.S.  Of the 291  companies  in the MSCI Asia Pacific gauge that
have reported earnings since Jan. 9, more than half have failed
to meet analysts estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in Sydney at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  