-- Australian Dollar Advances to Six-Month High as Reserve Bank Holds Rates
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2012-02-07T15:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/australian-dollar-advances-to-six-month-high-as-reserve-bank-holds-rates.html
Australia ’s dollar climbed to the
highest in six months versus its U.S. counterpart after Reserve
Bank policy makers unexpectedly left  interest rates  unchanged
and signaled optimism global economic growth will strengthen.  The Aussie climbed against all of its 16 most-traded peers
after central bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said sentiment in
financial markets had “generally improved” since December. New
Zealand’s dollar rose to a three-month high versus the yen as
Greece’s government and international creditors worked on the
final draft of an agreement on budget and structural measures
needed to free up a second aid package, a Greek official said.  “Leaving the cash rate at 4.25 percent was a big surprise
to consensus, so it’s not surprising to see Aussie jumping,”
said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Canada in  Hong Kong . “The RBA has left the door open for a rate
cut going forward, but the onus is going to be on the data.”  Australia’s dollar rose 0.7 percent to $1.0799 at 10:27
a.m. New York time. It touched $1.0823, the strongest level
since Aug. 2. The currency climbed 1 percent to 82.95 yen.  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, was 0.1 percent
stronger at 83.47 U.S. cents and advanced 0.4 percent to 64.09
yen. It reached 64.22 yen, the highest level since Oct. 31.  “With growth expected to be close to trend and inflation
close to target, the board judged that the setting of monetary
policy was appropriate for the moment,” Stevens said in a
statement accompanying the decision.  The RBA lowered its benchmark  interest rate  by a quarter-
percentage point on Nov. 1 and again on Dec. 6. Only three of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted policy makers
would leave rates unchanged today.  Greek Talks  The Greek document is being drafted at a meeting between
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos and representatives of
 Greece ’s creditors and will be discussed by political leaders
later in the day, a government official told reporters in  Athens 
today on customary condition of anonymity.  New Zealand’s economic outlook has deteriorated since a
pre-election update was published in November amid an escalation
of  Europe ’s debt crisis, the Treasury Department said in a
report on its website. The economy probably expanded 0.6 percent
in the three months ended Dec. 31, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  