-- RBA Growth Girl Warns Overvalued Aussie Hurting Economy as Stevens Pauses
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-08T13:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/australia-to-welcome-growth-girl-to-rba-after-holding-fire-on-rate-cut.html
Incoming Australian central bank
board member  Heather Ridout  aims to bring more attention to the
nation’s overvalued exchange rate as she joins the policy debate
amid deliberations on lowering  interest rates .  “There’s too much froth in the Australian currency,”
which economic fundamentals indicate ought to be worth 90 to 95
U.S. cents, Ridout, outgoing head of the Australian Industry
Group, said in an interview yesterday. She said “speculative”
buying stoked by rate differentials had spurred the local
dollar, which traded at $1.0834 at 8:08 a.m. in  New York .  Ridout, 58, will bring the perspective of the country’s
manufacturers to the  Reserve Bank  of Australia, which
unexpectedly left its benchmark rate at 4.25 percent yesterday.
She will also boost its diversity, becoming the fourth woman to
serve on the 52-year-old board.  “I’m a growth girl, but I’m not a stupid one,” Ridout
said in Sydney. “Sometimes we underestimate our capacity for
growth in this country,” she said, adding  Australia  had been
“quite conservative” on the issue.  Investors are pricing in a 60 percent chance the central
bank will lower borrowing costs when it meets next month,
according to Bloomberg calculations based on cash-rate futures.  Asked if she was a so-called dove, the word used to
describe a policy maker who leans toward economic growth over
fighting inflation, Ridout agreed she is.  Manufacturers’ ‘Voice’  “The market’s perception of her is that she is going to be
a voice for the manufacturing industry,” said  Sean Keane , an
analyst in Auckland at financial advisory group Triple T
Consulting and a former head of Asia-Pacific rates trading at
Credit Suisse Group AG. “The market will expect that she’ll
certainly argue against interest-rate hikes and argue for a more
dovish policy stance.”  The Australian dollar, the world’s fifth-most-traded
currency, has increased 5.7 percent this year. It soared to
$1.0823 yesterday after the central bank defied the forecasts of
24 of 27 economists for a rate cut.  “I do think monetary policy has been given an awful lot of
support in Australia by the high dollar and it does need to be
factored in,” Ridout said in the interview three hours before
the central bank decided against a rate cut. “I’m sure the bank
does. But I will be making those points pretty strongly when I
sit at that table.”  RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  trimmed the nation’s benchmark
interest rate by a quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent on
Nov. 1 and to 4.25 percent Dec. 6 to help revive household
demand and hiring.  Safe Haven  Even after the reductions, Australia has the highest
benchmark borrowing cost among major developed nations. Policy
rates in Japan and the U.S. are near zero, while the  European
Central Bank  has its benchmark at 1 percent.  “We used to be a proxy for world growth, now we’re a safe
haven because we’re well regulated,” Ridout said. “I think
Australia hasn’t had this argument with itself.”  The so-called Aussie has appreciated 56 percent since the
end of 2008, helping contain import prices while hurting the
competitiveness of exporters.  “It is very worrying,” Ridout said. “We have to have a
big think about the sort of economy that we’ll have if we stay
in this range of $1.05 or even $1.10-plus for an extended period
of time. It’s very, very tough.”  ‘Softer Year’  Ridout, who steps down in April after about eight years as
chief executive officer of the Australian Industry Group, said
that the nation’s manufacturers are proving “incredibly
resilient” and trying to boost productivity to cope with the
currency shock. The industry she represented contracted for most
of 2011.  “Certainly for 2012 our reports of our members would
suggest they expect a softer year than last year, and a tough
year,” she said. “But at the same time, they are investing in
new technology, they are investing in research and development,
and they are renewing their business models.”  Asked about the RBA board adjusting borrowing costs without
publicly revealing members’ votes -- an anomaly relative to the
standard followed by peers in nations from the U.S. to  Japan  to
 Poland  -- Ridout said she supported the current process.  “It’s a collegial decision in the end,” she said. “On
boards you’re basically all meant to agree and that’s how I
operate. I don’t think a proper board would operate saying Mrs.
Ridout supported it, Mr. so-and-so didn’t, the governor said
this -- I don’t see much purpose in that.”  Three Women  Ridout will bring to three the number of women on the RBA’s
nine-member board, joining Jillian Broadbent and Catherine Tanna. The central bank’s imbalance of women mirrors the
boardrooms of Australia’s biggest public companies, where about
13 percent of directors are female.  Ridout said that while representation remains low in
corporate Australia, it is improving as companies recognize the
benefits.  “Fifty-percent plus of the population are women, 75
percent of the buying choices on cars, etcetera, are made by
women, so why you wouldn’t have this diversity of view
represented around your board table confounds me,” she said.
“It’s changing but there’s still an awfully long way to go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  