-- Australia Reopens Solar Funds Bid as BP Fails to Get Finance
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-02-07T07:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/australia-reopens-solar-funds-bid-as-bp-fails-to-get-finance.html
Australia reopened a solar funding
competition to  AGL Energy Ltd. , TRUenergy Holdings Pty Ltd. and
Suntech Power Holdings Co. after the winning venture that
includes BP Plc failed to meet a financing deadline.  The government invited the companies to update their
applications seeking grants to build solar-power projects,
Energy Minister Martin Ferguson said in a statement today.
London-based BP,  Fotowatio Renewable Ventures  and Pacific Hydro
Pty were awarded A$306.5 million ($330.3 million) in funds last
year to build the Moree solar farm in New South Wales state.  “The government is committed to the deployment of large-
scale renewable energy technologies in Australia,” Ferguson
said in the e-mailed statement. “However, we must also ensure
that taxpayer money is spent prudently.”  The solar industry is facing declining costs of products,
as Chinese manufacturers increased production last year, leading
to excess capacity after European governments cut back on
subsidies. The price declines have led some companies including
Trina Solar Ltd. to predict that solar technology is nearing
parity with fossil fuels to supply power to national electric
grids at a competitive price.  Suntech and its partner,  Infigen Energy (IFN) , had lost in the
first round of the competition. AGL and  CLP Holdings Ltd.  unit
TRUenergy had also sought government solar grants last year.  BP’s withdrawal from the solar business and a drop in
prices of solar photovoltaic panels in the past year are
“pretty good reasons to go back and retest the market on
this,” John Grimes, chief executive officer of the  Australian
Solar Energy Society , said by phone today.  “By going back to the market we’ll reap the savings of
that reduced cost of solar PV,” said Grimes, whose Sydney-based
group represents solar-power companies. “We’d like to see the
funding maintained and for bigger plants to be built, so that
you will actually get more bang for your buck.”  Supply Agreements  BP,  Europe ’s second-largest oil company, and its partners
in the proposed A$923 million photovoltaic plant haven’t signed
power-supply agreements needed to advance with the project and
failed to meet a Dec. 15 deadline for reaching a financial
close, it said in December. The company said at the time that it
would stick with the planned 150-megawatt solar project after
deciding to exit the business globally amid a glut.  The Moree venture will be eligible to bid for the funds and
have a chance to show that it “is still the most meritorious
project,” Ferguson said. The government expects a decision in
the second quarter, he said.  The venture hasn’t met its obligations under the funding
agreement and has proposed “substantial changes” to the plant,
according to the statement.  ‘More Time’  “We remain confident that if granted a little more time
financial close will be achieved,” Moree partner Pacific Hydro
said in an e-mailed statement today. Discussions with retailers
“hold very strong prospect for completion” of a power-supply
agreement, while a group of lenders are committed to the
project’s development, according to the statement.  “Large infrastructure projects are difficult to finance
globally, and it is appropriate that they are given additional
time to put in place the finance arrangements they need to make
these viable,” the Solar Energy Society’s Grimes said. “But
this money has to be well-spent and spent soon. We need to
maintain urgency on these projects.”  Australia , which has set a target of generating 20 percent
of its power from renewable energy sources by the end of the
decade, also said last June it would provide A$464 million to a
solar project in Queensland led by a unit of Paris-based Areva
SA. That venture proposed a 250-megawatt solar-thermal and gas
hybrid power plant, according to the government.  The government has given that project, Solar Dawn, until
June 30 to reach a financial close, Ferguson said. “Solar Dawn
remained the best value solar thermal project,” Ferguson said.  Solar-thermal technology produces steam from sunlight for
conventional turbines. Photovoltaic technology uses panels that
convert sunlight directly into electricity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  