-- Australia Pausing Rate Cut on European Progress Spurs Currency: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-07T07:11:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/australia-unexpectedly-holds-benchmark-interest-rate-at-4-25-.html
Australia  unexpectedly kept  interest
rates  unchanged as two cuts late last year help the economy
weather Europe’s debt crisis, sending the nation’s currency
soaring to a six-month high.  “Much remains to be done to put European sovereigns and
banks on a sound footing, but some progress has been made,”
Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a statement today
announcing the official cash rate target will stay at 4.25
percent, the highest level among the world’s major developed
economies. “Financial  market sentiment , though remaining
skittish, has generally improved since early December.”  Stevens’s first rate decision of the year reflects
confidence the U.S. and Chinese economies will withstand a
European recession and domestic unemployment will stay close to
5 percent as A$456 billion ($492 billion) in resource projects
boost hiring. He signaled today a willingness to lower borrowing
costs if conditions warrant an easing of monetary policy.  “The bias is still to cut, that much is clear,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at ICAP Australia Ltd., a
unit of the world’s biggest interdealer broker, who predicted
today’s decision. “But they’ve tied it to a weakening in demand,
which is appropriate.”  Carr was one of three economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
to predict a pause. The other 24 forecast a quarter-percentage-
point reduction.  Stocks Steady  Asian stocks swung between  gains and losses . The MSCI  Asia 
Pacific Index rose 0.2 percent at 3:51 p.m. in  Tokyo .
Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index slipped 0.5 percent in Sydney
today, erasing earlier gains of as much as 0.4 percent.  Australia’s currency strengthened to as much as $1.0811 in
Sydney, the highest since Aug. 2, compared with $1.0705
immediately before the decision was announced. The Australian
dollar, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, has increased
5.7 percent this year.  Interbank cash-rate futures for March were yielding 4.115
percent, indicating traders expect Stevens to lower rates that
month.  Stevens trimmed the nation’s benchmark interest rate by a
quarter percentage point to 4.5 percent on Nov. 1 and to 4.25
percent Dec. 6 to help revive household demand and hiring.  Even after the reductions, Australia’s borrowing costs are
higher than other industrial nations. Policy rates in  Japan  and
the U.S. are near zero, while the  European Central Bank  has its
benchmark at 1 percent.  ‘Easier’ Policy  “Should demand conditions weaken materially, the inflation
outlook would provide scope for easier monetary policy,”
Stevens said in the statement today.  Elsewhere in Asia, the Indian government said today
economic growth probably slowed to 6.9 percent in the year
through March from 8.4 percent in 2010-2011. The forecast is
less than the 7 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of 15 economists.  Chinese stocks fell after the country’s Ministry of
Industry and  Information Technology  said industrial output
growth is likely to slow this quarter as the world economy cools
and  Europe ’s debt crisis worsens. The Shanghai Composite Index
tumbled 1.7 percent at the close today.  Taiwan may say today exports fell 17 percent last month
from a year earlier, after increasing 0.6 percent in December,
according to the median estimate of 11 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The island’s Ministry of Finance is scheduled to
announce trade data, including imports and total  trade balance ,
at 4 p.m. in Taipei.  European Industry  Germany ,  Denmark ,  Norway  and the Netherlands will be among
European nation releasing industrial production data today.
Output probably stagnated in December from a month earlier in
Germany and the Netherlands, and climbed at a faster pace in
Denmark, according to the median estimates by economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., an index of economic optimism probably rose to
48.6 this month from 47.5 in January, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists before the release by Investors Business
Daily and TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence. A reading below 50
signals a negative outlook.  For Australia’s central bank, Chinese demand for the
nation’s commodities is helping propel the domestic economy even
as global expansion slows.  “Growth in  China  has moderated as was intended, but on
most indicators remained quite robust through the second half of
last year,” Stevens said today. “Commodity prices declined for
some months to be noticeably off their peaks, but over the past
couple of months have risen somewhat and remain at quite high
levels.”  Australia’s trade surplus soared to a record in 2011 on
coal and iron ore shipments, a Feb. 2 government report showed,
as exports outpaced imports by A$19.3 billion.  Demand for Australian resources and rates that were 2.25
percentage points higher than any other developed nation spurred
the Australian dollar to $1.1081 on July 27, the highest level
since it was freely floated in 1983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  