-- Credit VROOMs: Auto Loans in 30 Seconds
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/auto-loans-in-30-seconds-drive-accelerating-vehicle-sales-cars.html
Three years ago, credit was so tight
that the owner of a legal firm with a $400,000 salary and a very
good credit score of more than 700 couldn’t get financed to buy
the car he wanted from Michael Mosser’s dealership.  “The world is upside-down compared to then,” said Mosser,
general manager of Chevrolet and Cadillac stores in  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan. “Today, somebody with a 500 credit score, I can get
approved and in a Malibu,” which starts at $22,110.  Lenders resisted extending credit to car buyers when the
mortgage market collapsed in 2008, helping push General Motors
Corp. and Chrysler LLC into bankruptcy and sending U.S. sales to
the lowest point in almost three decades. Amid a slow housing
market, auto demand is rebounding, spurring lenders from  Bank of
America Corp.  to  Capital One Financial Corp.  to approve buyers
faster and at better rates to compete for a piece of an
expanding market.  “Banks have had to look elsewhere for growth
opportunities, and auto has been one of the nice spaces over the
last couple years,” Curt Beaudouin, a bank analyst for Moody’s
Investors Service in  New York , said in a phone interview. “The
credit experience in terms of losses has been very good in
recent times. It’s never gotten out of hand. Right now, it’s
basically good for everybody in the industry.”  U.S. light-vehicle sales rose 10 percent to 12.8 million
last year. That momentum continued as automakers sold cars and
trucks in January at the fastest  pace  since the U.S.
government’s “cash for clunkers” program in August 2009,
according to Autodata Corp.  Capital One  Capital One boosted new-vehicle loan originations by 35
percent in the third quarter and 75 percent in each of the first
two quarters of 2011 from the year-earlier periods, according to
data provider Experian Automotive. That put Capital One ahead of
Bank of America in market share for new-vehicle loan volumes and
closer to  Ally Financial Inc . and  Wells Fargo & Co.   Capital One revamped a program for select dealers late last
year that gives them perks such as faster approvals and
exceptions for customers with borderline credit scores, said
Kevin Borgmann, president of the McLean, Virginia-based lender’s
auto-finance unit.  The company’s speed is “a big competitive advantage for
us,” Borgmann said in a phone interview. Capitol One decides
“the majority of applications for any dealer that does business
with us within 30 seconds. Dealers find a lot of value in that
because they can go out and sell the next car.”  Capital One is among several large banks creating dealer-
specific programs to take advantage of a market with growing
sales and still-low delinquency rates, said Melinda Zabritski,
director of automotive credit for Experian Automotive.  Fast Decisions  “You’ve got pretty fast decisioning going on in the
market,” Zabritski said in an interview. “When the market
pulled back, the instant decisions really slowed down. You had
more manual reviews. That’s one of the things you’re starting to
see change is you’re going back to the automatic approvals. For
a while, you really were only doing automatic declines.”  Lenders also are protected by a strong  wholesale market ,
Zabritski said. Used-vehicle prices, which are near record highs
because of short supplies, may increase 1.8 percent this year,
according to Jonathan Banks, an analyst with the National
Automobile Dealers Association’s Used Car Guide. Higher prices
for used-cars reduce the loss a lender takes in the event of
reselling a repossessed vehicle.  Faster decisions on auto-loan applications is “clearly
something you would expect as credit becomes looser,”  Don Johnson ,  General Motors Co. ’s vice president of U.S. sales, said
in an interview. “Consumers are deleveraging, their scores are
getting better, so those automated systems logically should be
turning more positive with more and more yesses.”  Aggressive Competitors  The ratio of borrowers who fall behind on their auto loans
by 60 days or more will remain  the same  this year as 2011,
according to TransUnion LLC. Delinquencies may have fallen to
0.51 percent at the end of last year, from their peak of 0.86
percent during the recession, TransUnion said in a report.  GM Financial, formerly known as AmeriCredit Corp., the
subprime lender that GM acquired in 2010, has provided
competition for  Ally Financial , GM’s former financial arm under
the name GMAC Inc.  Wells Fargo  also is “aggressively going
after our dealers’ business,” Johnson told analysts and
reporters on a Feb. 1 conference call.  Subprime borrowers are considered to be a higher-than-
normal credit risk.  ‘Almost Zero’  Ally, the top lender in new-vehicle financing this year,
let its market share go to “almost zero” when liquidity dried
up in 2008, Chief Executive Officer  Michael Carpenter  said in an
interview.  “There were months in 2009 where our share of retail was
zero because we simply couldn’t fund it,” he said. “If you
roll the clock forward and get to the middle of 2010, we were
back with higher share than we ever had as a captive” lender to
GM.  AutoNation Inc. , the largest retailer of new vehicles in
the U.S., is forecasting U.S. auto sales will rise to about 14
million this year.  Mike Jackson , chief executive officer of the  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida-based company, said in an interview last
month that available financing combined with better selection of
cars from Japanese automakers and customers wanting to replace
aging vehicles will spur demand.  The average age of U.S. cars and trucks has risen to a
record 10.8 years, according to R.L. Polk & Co.  Contrast With Mortgages  “People pay for their cars before they pay for their
houses,” Mike Maroone, Autonation’s chief operating officer,
said in a phone interview. “They couldn’t afford to lose
transportation because it ties right to their ability to work.”  Wells Fargo,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and Bank of America are
among the lenders with whom AutoNation works most closely on
financing customers with prime and near-prime credit, Maroone
said. GM Financial has been among the most aggressive in lending
to subprime borrowers, he said.  Bond offerings linked to automobile loans and leases, such
as GM Financial’s $1 billion sale announced on Jan. 31, are set
to dominate the asset-backed  debt market  for the fourth straight
year in 2012, according to Wells Fargo Securities LLC estimates.  Sales of the securities may jump 11 percent to $63 billion
this year, accounting for about 55 percent of bonds tied to
consumer borrowing, the bank said. About $57 billion of bonds
tied to auto debt were sold in 2011, or 54 percent of new deals.  The strength of the auto lending market differs from that
of mortgages, where offerings of bonds without government
guarantees backed by such loans may total just $5 billion this
year, compared with peak originations of about $1.2 trillion in
both 2005 and 2006, according to JPMorgan analysts.  No `Blank Check'  Ally, based in  Detroit , has told investors it won’t file
for an initial public offering until issues tied to faulty home
loans are resolved and that it won’t give a “blank check” to
its mortgage unit, which has teetered near bankruptcy.  Mosser, the Chevy and Cadillac dealer, said his daughter is
struggling to buy a $105,000 condo. While she’s putting 20
percent down and he’s going in on the mortgage with her, it has
taken more than 30 days for the bank to approve.  “I could walk out of this dealership in 20 minutes with a
brand-new, $80,000 Escalade,” he said. “And you’re going from
a car loan, which is somewhat unsecured, to a home, a property,
which is secured. It’s kind of crazy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 