-- Bank of England Says to Evaluate Fossil-Fuel Investment Risk
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-02-07T12:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bank-of-england-says-to-evaluate-fossil-fuel-investment-risk.html
The  Bank of England  will evaluate
whether the U.K.’s exposure to investments in greenhouse gas-
emitting industries poses a risk to financial stability,
Governor  Mervyn King  said.  Responding to a Jan. 19 letter from Climate Change Capital
Ltd. and more than 20 other investors, academics and campaign
groups urging a probe, King said that while there is a
“question” about whether any danger exists, he’ll try to
investigate investments in polluting industries further.  “There is clearly a scope for further evaluation of these
issues,” King wrote in his Feb. 1 reply, posted on the Climate
Change Capital  website  and confirmed by the bank. “We will
endeavor to include this in the list of topics we regularly
discuss with market participants to assess whether or not this
is a risk of which they are aware and the extent to which they
are taking it into account in their investment decisions.”  Banks, funds and institutional investors may end up with
“stranded assets and poor returns” because of investments in
industries with high  carbon emissions , Climate Change Capital
said in the earlier letter to the bank.  The signatories, who included Aviva Investors Chief
Executive Officer Paul Abberley noted that five of the 10
biggest companies in the U.K.’s benchmark stock index, the FTSE
100, were “almost exclusively high-carbon.”  The value of U.K. pensions could be at risk because of
investments that may lose value as “policy and technology work
consistently over time to reduce returns in high carbon areas
while supporting low carbon ones,” according to the first
letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  