-- Barclays Seen Needing Deeper Cuts to Reach Profit Target
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-02-07T16:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/barclays-seen-needing-deeper-cost-cuts-to-reach-profit-target.html
Barclays Plc , the only U.K. consumer
bank not to have scrapped its profitability target amid Europe’s
debt crisis, will struggle to reach the goal without cutting
costs as revenue from  investment banking  falls, analysts said.  Unlike his U.K. competitors  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc , Barclays Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  has stuck to the 13 percent return on
equity target he set for 2013 a year ago, even as the sovereign
debt crisis and tougher rules on capital erode revenue.  He may have now to cut jobs and sell assets to reach the
goal, or scrap it, after return on equity totaled 6.9 percent in
the third quarter, analysts said. Barclays will be the first of
Britain’s five-largest banks to report earnings this week.  Diamond “is going to have to wriggle out of somehow,”
said Julian Chillingworth, who helps manage 15 billion pounds
($24 billion), including Barclays shares, at Rathbone Brothers
Plc in  London . “He requires  capital markets  to be reasonable to
achieve this. It’s going to be pretty tough to get there.”  Barclays  is scheduled to report full-year earnings on Feb.
10 at 7:00 a.m. local time. The London-based bank’s full-year
net income will decline 12 percent to 3.14 billion pounds ($4.95
billion) from 3.56 billion pounds a year earlier, according to
the median estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Investment-banking revenue fell 15 percent to 2.25 billion
pounds in the third quarter. It may decline to 2 billion pounds
in the fourth quarter, down from 3.5 billion pounds in the year-
earlier period as fixed income, currencies and commodities
trading revenue slows, Chris Manners, an analyst at Morgan
Stanley wrote in a Feb. 3 report to investors.  Consumer Unit  Barclays’s U.K. consumer and business division may post a
profit of 1.7 billion pounds for 2011, while the European unit
will probably post a loss of 200 million pounds, according to
 Mike Trippitt , an analyst at Oriel Securities Ltd. in London.  “The biggest challenge will be when asked about their
future return on equity targets and whether or not it’s credible
without restructuring Barclays Capital more aggressively,” said
Tom Rayner, an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London. “Either
revenue has to go back to pre-crisis levels with the same cost
base or costs have got to be adjusted in line with a weaker
revenue environment.”  Barclays gained 2.3 percent to 236.8 pence in London
trading today. The stock has declined 24 percent in the past 12
months, valuing the bank at 28.9 billion pounds. The FTSE 350
Banks Index, which tracks the performance Britain’s five biggest
lenders, has dropped 22 percent. Barclays spokesman Giles Croot
declined to comment.  HSBC Sales  HSBC Holdings Plc ,  Europe ’s biggest bank, has announced
sales of divisions and assets valued at $5.07 billion in the
past year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The lender
also said it would meet only the “softer end” of its 12
percent to 15 percent ROE target.  Lloyds said in November it may not meet some its medium-
term financial targets until beyond 2014. The bank had said in
June it planned to reach an ROE of 12.5 percent to 14.5 percent
by 2014. Edinburgh-based RBS said in November it may no longer
meet its ROE target of 15 percent.  “I’d like to see a little more progress on Diamond’s
strategic restructuring, where he has a target of selling,
restructuring or winding down businesses that don’t get by 2013
13 percent return on equity target,” said Matthew Czepliewicz,
a London-based analyst at Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc.
“Whereas at HSBC we’ve seen some pretty steady progress from
 Stuart Gulliver , at Barclays we haven’t seen a lot yet.”  Job Cuts  Barclays plans to sell at least $1.36 billion of financial
assets, including a $628.5 million holding in real estate
company Archstone, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Barclays might consider selling its 19.9 percent stake in
 BlackRock Inc . said Oriel’s Trippitt.  The bank said in October that it had already eliminated
3,500 jobs in 2011. The bank was “on track” to exceed its 1
billion-pound cost-reduction package, Finance Director Chris Lucas said at the time.  Barclays Capital, which employs about 24,000 people may
eliminate about 5 percent of its senior bankers, two people with
knowledge of the talks said last week. The lender plans to
reduce compensation for employees at the investment banking unit
by as much as 30 percent, said the people who declined to be
identified because the plans haven’t yet been made public.  Lloyds has already started to cut 15,000 jobs, while  RBS 
announced about 4,800 job cuts last month in addition to the
2,000 it made in August.  Cost-Income Ratios  Barclays’s cost-income ratio, a measure of efficiency,
stands at 61 percent, behind HSBC’s 55 percent and Lloyds’s 52
percent, according to company filings. It’s only exceeded by
RBS’s 68 percent.  Cutting jobs or selling parts of  Barclays Capital  may mean
dismantling the division Diamond built himself from the
remainder of the Barclays de Zoete Wedd operation that wasn’t
sold in 1997. Barclays bought the North American unit of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. amid the 2008 financial crisis and then
added more than 2,000 bankers in Europe and  Asia  in equities and
mergers and advisory to expand the bank.  Some analysts say it may be too soon for Diamond to give up
on the bank’s profitability target. The size of Barclays’s
investment banking unit may allow it more leeway in reducing
risk in preparation for incoming Basel III rules, said  Neil Smith , an analyst at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf,  Germany .  “The investment banks are able to reduce their risk
profile more quickly than a traditional bank with loans,” Smith
said. “Often there you have to either sell the loans or run
down your book.”  Positive Surprise?  Smith said markets are changing too quickly to determine
whether Diamond’s target is attainable. He’s more focused on how
Barclays will reduce its risk-weighted assets to meet the latest
rules set by the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision .  “I suspect there might be a bit of cautious optimism for
first-quarter investment banking revenues,” Smith said.  Deutsche Bank AG, Germany’s largest lender, said last week
fourth-quarter profit fell 76 percent, more than analysts
estimated, as Europe’s debt crisis curbed trading and the
company wrote down holdings. The investment bank posted a 422
million-euro ($552 million) pretax loss. Anshu Jain, who takes
over as co-CEO with Juergen Fitschen in May, told reporters at a
Feb. 2 press conference in  Frankfurt  that January was “more
gratifying” for the investment bank than the second half of
2011.  The following is a table of estimated full-year earnings
and the year-earlier results. The last column shows the number
of analysts in the consensus. All figures are in millions of
pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  