-- Sen. Baucus Eyes Inherited IRAs for $4.6B
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-07T23:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/baucus-eyes-inherited-iras-to-raise-4-6-billion-for-treasury-over-decade.html
U.S. Senate Finance Committee
Chairman  Max Baucus  said he would back off an immediate effort
to impose tougher requirements on inherited individual
retirement accounts.  The changes that Baucus proposed earlier today would raise
$4.6 billion for the Treasury over the next decade by requiring
younger beneficiaries to pay taxes over five years instead of
spreading them over their lifetimes, according to the Finance
Committee. Baucus, a  Montana  Democrat, had wanted to use the
money to help pay for a highway bill the panel is debating.  Under pressure from Republicans, Baucus said he would work
with them to find replacement revenue. During the committee
meeting, he didn’t provide details about alternatives.  Baucus’s proposal would curtail a tax-planning technique
that allows the buildup of tax-deferred gains inside inherited
retirement accounts. Currently, holders of inherited IRAs can
take required taxable distributions over their anticipated
lifespan.  “IRAs are intended for retirement,” said Baucus, who said
the current law is being abused. “They’re being used by some
taxpayers to give tax-free benefits” to future generations.  Financial advisers and tax lawyers said Baucus’s proposal
would significantly alter retirement and estate planning.  Change ‘Playing Field’  “It would really change the whole playing field for
retirement planning,” said Ed Slott, an IRA adviser in
 Rockville Centre , New York. “That would make things simpler,
but it would really put a crimp in the whole legacy planning
people do for IRAs.”  The proposal includes exceptions for an account owner’s
spouse, beneficiaries within 10 years of age of the account
owner, and disabled and chronically ill people, according to a
 summary  by the nonpartisan Joint Committee on Taxation. Children
would be exempt from the new five-year rule until they reach
adulthood.  Owners of regular IRAs must begin taking taxable
distributions at age 70 1/2, and they must be taken according to
a life-expectancy calculation.  Baucus’ proposal would take effect for people who die
starting in 2013.  Late Starter  Senator  Jon Kyl , an Arizona Republican, said members of his
party found out that the IRA provision would be included early
this morning and said it showed that senators’ attempts to limit
highway funding sources to items related to transportation and
energy had fallen apart.  “I think we’ve lost the opportunity to have a truly
bipartisan package,” he said during the committee meeting. He
later praised Baucus for his willingness to find a replacement
for the provision.  “Perhaps this provision and the subject can be taken up in
 tax reform ,” Baucus said.  Depending on how the language is written, beneficiaries in
some cases might be able to use rollovers into their IRAs to
avoid the required distributions, said Mary Ann Mancini, who
leads the private client group at  Bryan Cave LLP  in  Washington .  Mancini said many of her clients don’t use IRAs as an
estate-planning tool because beneficiaries often want to spend
their inheritances.  “If you can keep it in the IRA with tax-free growth, the
longer you can keep it in the IRA, people can come out with
millions,” she said. “The problem is people don’t keep it in
the IRA. Young people want the money.”  ‘Too Much Invested’  Baucus’s proposal would return IRAs to their intended
purpose as a retirement savings tool and not an estate-planning
tool known as a stretch IRA, Slott said. The change, if enacted,
would cause people to spend the money in their IRAs rather than
leave it as an inheritance for their children, he said.  “It sounds good, but I think it’s a nonstarter,” Slott
said. “There’s too much invested in the whole stretch IRA
concept.”  John Olivieri, a partner in the private clients group at
 White & Case LLP  in  New York , said the change could increase the
taxable income of heirs each year for five years and may push
them into a higher income tax bracket, he said.  Another potential benefit to the federal government is
that, because distributions would be taken out faster, there
would be less time for the money to accumulate in the IRA tax-
free, Olivieri said.  “Once the money is out of the account, it can no longer
grow tax-free,” he said. “That’s where the government may be
planning to get the most benefit from this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at   jschneider50@bloomberg.net  