-- BBVA Sells First Spanish Senior Unsecured Bonds Since October
-- B y   E s t e b a n   D u a r t e   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-07T13:27:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bbva-sells-first-spanish-senior-unsecured-bonds-since-october.html
Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA  is
selling senior, unsecured bonds in the first benchmark offering
of the debt from a Spanish bank since October.  The 2 billion-euro ($2.6 billion) offering of 18-month
notes will yield 193 basis points more than the benchmark swap
rate, according to a banker with knowledge of the matter. That’s
less than the 250 basis points that BBVA,  Spain ’s second-largest
bank, offered on similar-maturity notes it sold in October.  BBVA is selling the bonds as European policy makers pump
cheap funds into the economy, fuelling demand for higher-
yielding assets. The European Central Bank, which gave financial
firms 489 billion euros of 1 percent three-year loans in
December, will offer unlimited funding on Feb. 29 in its second
longer-term refinancing operation.  “LTRO money is renewing the demand for peripheral issuers
including for some senior unsecured debt,” said Phil Milburn,
an Edinburgh-based  fund manager  at Kames Capital, which manages
about 27 billion pounds of assets.  Telefonica SA , Spain’s largest phone company, is also
selling bonds, seeking 1.5 billion euros from six-year bonds
yielding 300 basis points more than the swap rate, according to
a banker with knowledge of the deal. Madrid-based oil company
 Repsol YPF SA (REP)  and  Banco Espanol de Credito SA , a unit of Banco
Santander SA, are also selling debt today, according to people
familiar with the transactions.  BBVA’s 750 million-euro sale of unsecured debt on Oct. 28
was the last benchmark offering of the debt by a Spanish bank,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A benchmark-sized deal
is typically at least 500 million euros.  Barclays Capital , HSBC Holdings Plc, Natixis and Societe
Generale SA are managing the sale of the new bonds for the
Bilbao-based lender. BBVA is rated Aa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and one step lower at A+ by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esteban Duarte in  Madrid  at 
 eduarterubia@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin in  London  at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  