-- Beane to Remain Athletics’ General Manager Through 2019, Owner Wolff Says
-- B y   J o n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-02-07T20:42:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/beane-to-be-athletics-g-m-through-2019-wolff-says.html
General Manager Billy Beane and
President Michael Crowley will remain with the  Oakland Athletics 
through the 2019 season, club owner Lew Wolff said today in an
interview with Bloomberg Television’s “Bloomberg West.”  Wolff said in San Francisco that the two executives have
reached agreements to stay with the Major League Baseball team
and that he expects them to sign contract extensions within 30
days.  Beane and Crowley both are limited partners in the A’s,
with Wolff the managing partner. Wolff is chairman and chief
executive officer of Wolff Urban Development LLC, a Los Angeles-
based real estate firm.  “I view them as partners as well as executives,” Wolff
said. “So if they are here another 30 years, that is fine with
me. I may not be here to see it, but that will be fine.”  Beane, 49, has been the team’s general manager since the
end of the 1997 season. He is the subject of  Michael Lewis ’s
2003 book on baseball economics, “Moneyball,” which was made
into a film starring  Brad Pitt  as Beane. Lewis is a columnist
for Bloomberg View.  Wolff, 76, discussed the extensions as part of an interview
about his desire to build a new stadium in  San Jose ,  California ,
and to move the team there in the next few years.  “Somebody said the reason I am doing it is I want one or
the other to be able to wheel me into the new stadium,” Wolff
said.  Crowley took over as team president at the end of the 1998
season.  Beane was traveling and unavailable for comment today.
Crowley didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment made
through A’s spokesman Bob Rose.  The Athletics were 74-88 last season and haven’t made the
playoffs since 2006.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Erlichman in New York at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  