-- Berbatov to Sign for Another Year at Manchester United, Sun Says: Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-02-07T10:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/berbatov-to-sign-for-another-year-at-united-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Berbatov Extension  Manchester United  will give striker  Dimitar Berbatov  a
one-year contract extension,  the Sun said.   The Bulgarian was planning to leave the club after the
season because he’s struggling to get into the lineup, the
newspaper said. United have activated a clause that extends the
31-year-old’s contract at the same 100,000 pounds ($158,000) a
week salary, the Sun said.  Jousting for Jovetic  United, Chelsea and Manchester City are trying to sign
Fiorentina striker Stefan Jovetic,  the Daily Star said.   The clubs all sent scouts to the Italian side’s last match
to watch the Montenegro national team player, who has a 40
million-pound buyout clause, the newspaper said. He would
probably cost 10 million less, the Star said.  Jovetic’s contract lasts until 2016, but his agent is
telling teams that he’s ready to move, the newspaper said.  Terry Wants to Play  Chelsea defender  John Terry  still wants to play for the
national side this year,  the Daily Mail said.   Terry was stripped of the England captain’s job because of
accusations that he racially abused an opponent. He told coach
 Fabio Capello  that he would be available to play in the European
Championships this summer, the newspaper said.  Hazard Fight  Arsenal will try to beat Chelsea to the signature of Lille
winger Eden Hazard after the season,  the Sun said.   Gunners manager  Arsene Wenger  expressed his interest in the
player, who would cost 30 million pounds, the newspaper said.
The manager said he liked the 21-year-old’s “creative ability,
his talent for unbalancing opponents, his vision of the game,”
the Sun said.  The Bill  Former Queens Park Rangers coach  Neil Warnock  will meet
with the club’s management today to try to end a 1 million-pound
pay dispute,  the Mail said .  Warnock was fired last month and replaced by former Fulham
and Manchester City manager  Mark Hughes , and he wants the west
London club to pay the rest of his salary, the newspaper said.
He had 18 months left on his agreement when he was fired, the
Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  