-- Bernanke Says 8.3% Unemployment Understates Weakness in U.S. Labor Market
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-07T19:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bernanke-says-8-3-unemployment-understates-weakness-in-u-s-labor-market.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the 8.3 percent rate of unemployment in January
understates weakness in the U.S. labor market.  “It is very important to look not just at the unemployment
rate, which reflects only people who are actively seeking
work,” Bernanke said today in response to questions at a
hearing before the Senate Budget Committee in  Washington .
“There are also a lot of people who are either out of the  labor
force  because they don’t think they can find work” or in part-
time jobs.  The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 8.3 percent in
January, a government report showed on Feb. 3. Bernanke’s
remarks indicate that his view that the labor market is a “long
way” from returning to normal hasn’t changed since he used the
same phrase when he testified to the House Budget Committee on
Feb. 2.  “The 8.3 percent no doubt understates the weakness of the
labor market in some broad sense,” Bernanke said today, while
noting that some job indicators are improving.  Bernanke said the Fed’s forecast suggests the economy will
grow fast enough to absorb new entrants into the workforce while
“not making sharp improvements on the  unemployment rate .”  Fed officials last month estimated that the world’s largest
economy will grow 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent this year,
according to the central tendency estimate, while the
unemployment rate will average 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent in the
fourth quarter.  ‘Long Way’  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” Bernanke said earlier in
prepared testimony that was identical to his Feb. 2 remarks.
“Particularly troubling is the unusually high level of long-
term unemployment.”  The economy added 243,000 jobs last month, according to the
report, exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg
News survey of economists.  While the jobless rate has dropped for five consecutive
months, it remains above the 5.2 percent to 6 percent that Fed
officials say is consistent with maximum employment. The
percentage of the unemployed who have remained without work for
27 weeks or more rose to 42.9 percent in January from 42.5
percent in December, the Labor Department said.  Bernanke reiterated that the benchmark  interest rate  will
probably stay near zero at least through late 2014, while saying
the economy is vulnerable to shocks. The  Federal Open Market
Committee  on Jan. 25 extended its horizon for low rates from an
earlier date of at least mid-2013.  Progress in Greece  Stocks rose as  Greece ’s government made progress on
measures to secure international aid. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  climbed 0.2 percent to 1,347.33 at 1:56 p.m. in  New York .
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.98 percent from
1.91 percent late yesterday.  A Labor Department report today showed job openings in the
U.S. increased in December by the most in almost a year, showing
employers are gaining confidence the economy will keep growing.  The number of positions waiting to be filled climbed by
258,000, the biggest gain since February 2011, to 3.38 million.
Excluding government agencies, openings at private employers
climbed to the highest level since August 2008.  Bernanke repeated his call on lawmakers to reduce budget
deficits.  ‘Sustainable Path’  “To achieve economic and financial stability, U.S. fiscal
policy must be placed on a sustainable path that ensures that
debt relative to national income is at least stable or,
preferably, declining over time,” Bernanke said.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said last week
it expects the  deficit  to narrow to $1.1 trillion this fiscal
year from $1.3 trillion last year. The gap would reach $1.5
trillion by 2022, CBO estimated, and the debt would rise to
levels unseen since the government was paying off its World War
II expenses.  “On current, reasonable expectations about policy that the
U.S. federal deficit will be unsustainable within 15 or 20 years
at the most,” Bernanke said. “Possibly some of those effects
will be brought forward by markets, for example,” he said during
testimony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  