-- Bernanke’s Helpful Reminder, One Job Jump Isn’t a Recovery: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-07T17:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bernanke-s-helpful-reminder-that-one-good-job-report-isn-t-recovery-view.html
     Feb. 7 (Bloomberg) - Last week’s encouraging news on jobs
hasn’t much changed the  Federal Reserve ’s sobering assessment of
the  U.S. economy . That was Chairman  Ben Bernanke ’s message to
Congress today.  Bernanke is right. One month’s numbers do not make a
recovery, and the economy still faces severe difficulties.
Recent indicators have been mixed. It’s good that employers
added 243,000 jobs last month, and that the  unemployment rate 
fell to 8.3 percent. Manufacturing growth picked up in January,
too. But  consumer confidence  slipped. The housing market is
still on its back. The Fed has lowered its forecast for growth
this year and still thinks downside risks outweigh the upside.  We’ve said it before, but it bears repeating: Further
monetary easing is needed and abrupt fiscal tightening should be
put on hold. The alternative would be to risk another round of
one step forward, two steps back.  The Fed, you could argue, is doing all it can. Last week
the central bank  said  it expected to keep  interest rates  close
to zero for almost three years, a newly extended timeframe that
amounts to a subtle loosening of monetary conditions. Bernanke
then went even further.  The central bank has an inflation target of 2 percent, he
said -- a firmer statement than before and an upward tweaking of
the Fed’s inflation goal (previously, 2 percent was the top end
of an implicit target range). Bernanke tweaked it again by
saying the Fed’s dual mandate to maintain full employment as
well as  price stability  implied patience in bringing inflation
back down when the economy is very weak.  Smoke Signals  Whether these smoke signals amount to a substantial easing
of policy is debatable. From a market psychology point of view,
the Fed’s gloom roughly cancels out the comparatively timid
steps it is taking to loosen its policy. To be effective, the
Fed must be bolder.  It ought to do two things. Much as we have written about
the dangers of unleashing inflation, it should affirm that,
under exceptional circumstances, it would permit a period of
higher-than-target inflation. Last week, under questioning by
House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , Bernanke felt
compelled to walk back from previous comments on this. “We will
not tolerate higher inflation,” the Fed chairman said firmly.
The real question, he said, is how quickly above-target
inflation should be brought back down. We sympathize with
Bernanke in his dealings with Congress, but this is an invisibly
fine distinction, and it leaves investors unsure of Fed policy.  When unemployment is high, short-term interest rates near
zero and inflationary pressures diminishing, a rise in expected
inflation -- so long as it is carefully controlled -- is not a
problem to be avoided but a necessary part of the solution.
Under those conditions, showing patience in bringing inflation
back down to the target would have the effect of raising
inflation expectations. So be it. Last week, Bernanke hinted
he’d be patient, but the Fed needs to explain this logic without
equivocating, and Congress needs to let it.  Second, the Fed should embark on another round of bond
buying, known as quantitative easing, to put more cash into the
economy. Together these steps would provide effective monetary
easing -- though not necessarily, one should note, lower nominal
bond yields. Indeed, if nominal long-term interest rates keep
falling, inflation expectations are subsiding and the policy
isn’t working.  In reading Bernanke’s work as a scholar, and between the
lines of his statements and testimony, there is little doubt he
agrees. But the political hazards of moving openly in this
direction are clear. The Republican-controlled Congress would
erupt. It doesn’t help that the Fed’s board is  split  on these
questions. As a practical matter, the next round of QE might
have to wait for an alarming economic setback. If so, that’s a
pity, and the economy will suffer needlessly.  Support the Recovery  This puts extra weight on another of the chairman’s
favorite themes -- and here we agree without reservation. Fiscal
policy needs to better support the recovery. Again, this comes
in two familiar and inseparable parts: First, avoid premature
fiscal tightening; second, make credible commitments to
stabilize public borrowing in the medium term.  As with  monetary policy , the problem is politics. The
Republican-controlled House is itching to cut government
 spending  immediately, making adequate short-term stimulus
impossible. The president and his Democratic allies are fine
with postponing talk of longer-term budget retrenchment. In an
election year, it’s a task they’d rather not take up.  Scope remains for smaller measures that will help. No
question, the payroll tax cut needs to be extended for the rest
of the year -- and without offsetting cuts in spending that
neutralize the fiscal effect.  We also urge Congress to take up the administration’s
latest plan to help the  housing  market. The idea is to support
mortgage refinancings at prevailing low interest rates, and not
just for loans backed by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac . Under
previous plans, only home loans owned or guaranteed by the
housing-finance companies were eligible. The administration says
this would reach an additional 3.5 million households, costing
as much as $10 billion. The administration wants to recoup this
with a tax on banks. Congress seems likely to balk.  The plan deserves support. The idea is flawed only because,
like earlier efforts, it’s still too timid. As we have
previously argued, stabilizing the housing market will probably
require reductions in mortgage principal as well as access to
lower interest rates. The cost of an ambitious plan would run
into the hundreds of billions. It would be money well spent, but
we recognize it isn’t likely to happen.  Hemmed in by politics, monetary and fiscal policies aren’t
doing what they could. Monetary policy is too cautious. Fiscal
policy is overly stringent in the short-term and silent on what
comes later. These problems are fixable. Let’s hope it doesn’t
take another recession to fix them.  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg  View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 