-- Bernanke: Labor Market ‘Long Way’ From Normal
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-07T16:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bernanke-reiterates-u-s-labor-market-is-long-way-from-return-to-normal.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  repeated that the job market is still far from healthy
after signs of economic improvement over the past year, and he
called on lawmakers to reduce the long-term  budget deficit .  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” Bernanke said in
testimony prepared for the Senate Budget Committee that is
identical to remarks he gave on Feb. 2 to the House Budget
panel. “Particularly troubling is the unusually high level of
long-term unemployment.”  The jobless rate unexpectedly fell to 8.3 percent in
January, a government report showed on Feb. 3. Bernanke’s
testimony today indicated that his views on the health of the
labor market haven’t changed, even though he didn’t refer to the
January data. The economy added 243,000 jobs last month,
according to the report, exceeding the most optimistic forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  In response to a question, Bernanke said the  unemployment
rate  of 8.3% understates the weakness of the labor market. He
said it’s important to also look at other gauges of the labor
market, including underemployment.  While the jobless rate has dropped for five consecutive
months, it remains above the 5.2 percent to 6 percent that Fed
officials say is consistent with maximum employment. The
percentage of the unemployed who have remained without work for
27 weeks or more rose to 42.9 percent in January from 42.5
percent in December, the Labor Department said.  ‘Gradually Recovering’  “Over the past two and a half years, the  U.S. economy  has
been gradually recovering from the recent deep recession,”
Bernanke, 58, said today. “While conditions have certainly
improved over this period, the pace of the recovery has been
frustratingly slow, particularly from the perspective of the
millions of workers who remain unemployed or underemployed.”  Bernanke reiterated that the benchmark  interest rate  will
probably stay near zero at least through late 2014, while saying
the economy is vulnerable to shocks.  Stocks rose as  Greece ’s government made progress on
measures to secure international aid. The  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index  climbed 0.1 percent to 1,346.21 at 11:27 a.m. in  New York .
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose to 1.97 percent from
1.91 percent late yesterday.  A Labor Department report today showed job openings in the
U.S. increased in December by the most in almost a year, showing
employers are gaining confidence the economy will keep growing.  Waiting to Be Filled  The number of positions waiting to be filled climbed by
258,000, the biggest gain since February 2011, to 3.38 million.
Excluding government agencies, openings at private employers
climbed to the highest level since August 2008.  Bernanke repeated his call on lawmakers to reduce budget
deficits.  “To achieve economic and financial stability, U.S. fiscal
policy must be placed on a sustainable path that ensures that
debt relative to national income is at least stable or,
preferably, declining over time,” Bernanke said.  The nonpartisan  Congressional Budget Office  said last week
it expects the deficit to narrow to $1.1 trillion this fiscal
year from $1.3 trillion last year. The gap would reach $1.5
trillion by 2022, CBO estimated, and the debt would rise to
levels unseen since the government was paying off its World War
II expenses.  Congress should “take care not to unnecessarily impede the
current economic recovery,” Bernanke said. Replying on Feb. 2
to lawmakers’ questions, he declined to voice his views on
policies such as the payroll tax cut and  unemployment benefits .  Private Payrolls  Private payrolls, which exclude government agencies, rose
257,000 in January after a revised gain of 220,000 the prior
month, marking the biggest back-to-back gain since March-April.
They were projected to climb by 160,000.  The  unemployment  rate, derived from a separate survey of
households, was forecast to stay at 8.5 percent, according to
the median of a Bloomberg survey. The drop in the jobless rate
reflected a 381,000 decrease in unemployment at the same time
250,000 Americans entered the  labor force .  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said after the jobs
report that economic news “has been surprising to the upside.”  “I need to see significant deterioration in the economy
and some threat of deflation or inflation moving significantly
below our inflation target before” backing more bond buying by
the Fed, he said in a Bloomberg News interview.  Fed policy makers see inflation declining in 2012 to below
their 2 percent target, with most expecting prices to rise 1.4
percent to 1.8 percent this year, according to forecasts
released Jan. 25. Bernanke said he expects inflation to “remain
subdued.”  Price Gauge  The price gauge preferred by the Fed, the personal
consumption expenditures index, increased 2.4 percent in
December from a year earlier, down from 2.6 percent the previous
month. The pace of so-called  core inflation , which excludes food
and energy, increased to 1.8 percent in December from 1.7
percent the month before.  Companies such as  Procter & Gamble Co ., Kimberly-Clark
Corp. and Darden Restaurants Inc. have been cutting prices,
offering coupons and emphasizing “affordability” in promotions
such as an $8.95 “Never Ending Pasta Bowl” at Darden’s Olive
Garden restaurant chain. The companies have found that
consumers, who have experienced little wage growth, are
resisting price increases.  The central bank has kept interest rates close to zero
since December 2008 and expanded its balance sheet by buying
$2.3 trillion in bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  