-- Bertelsmann Names New RTL Heads as Zeiler Leaves for Time Warner
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bertelsmann-names-schaeferkordt-de-posch-as-rtl-co-ceos-2-.html
Bertelsmann AG (BTG) , Europe’s biggest
media company, named Anke Schaeferkordt and Guillaume de Posch
to jointly head its television unit  RTL Group SA (RTL) , replacing
Gerhard Zeiler who is joining  Time Warner (TWX)  Inc.  Zeiler, 56, is leaving April 18 after nine years as chief
executive officer, RTL said yesterday. He will become president
of the international unit of Time Warner’s Turner Broadcasting
System.  Zeiler became RTL CEO in March 2003 and made the business
Bertelsmann’s most profitable unit. European TV operators such
as Luxembourg-based RTL, which owns 47  television  channels and
29  radio stations  in 10 countries, need to focus on expanding
the company’s pay-TV and digital businesses, said  David Joyce ,
an analyst at Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York .  “Europe is still behind the U.S. in terms of penetration
of pay-TV,” Joyce said in a phone interview. New Internet
offerings are also necessary to keep and win viewers as
consumers increasingly watch TV shows via the Web, he said.  Schaeferkordt, 49, is currently the CEO of RTL’s German
unit and will replace Zeiler on  Bertelsmann ’s executive board.
De Posch, responsible for RTL’s international business, will
join Bertelsmann’s management committee, a body giving the
executive board advice on corporate strategy.  Streaming Competition  Turner, whose businesses include  CNN , TNT and Cartoon
Network, said Zeiler will oversee all entertainment and kids’
networks as well as media services outside  North America . He
will also handle distribution and commercial operations of CNN’s
international services, and Turner’s international joint
ventures, licensing and merchandising activities. He will report
to Phil Kent, head of Turner Broadcasting.  RTL, which in November said third-quarter profit excluding
some items rose 8.3 percent on higher advertising revenue and
strong ratings for its “X Factor” and “Got Talent” shows,
faces increased competition from video-streaming companies such
as Netflix Inc. and Amazon.com Inc.’s Lovefilm unit.  Netflix CEO Reed Hastings last month forecast the company
will attract millions of subscribers within a few years to the
Internet film and television service it started in the U.K. and
Ireland.  RTL, in which Bertelsmann owns 91 percent according to
Bloomberg data, dropped 1.2 percent to 73.24 euros in Brussels
yesterday, before the management changes were announced, valuing
the company at 11.3 billion euros ($15 billion). In the last 12
months, the stock has declined less than one percent while the
19-member Euro Stoxx Media Index dropped 20 percent.  Digital Expansion  Media businesses such as Bertelsmann, whose assets also
include  Europe ’s biggest magazine publisher Gruner + Jahr, are
trying to bolster revenue from digital and Web assets to make up
for slower growth at traditional newspaper, magazine and
printing services.  Thomas Rabe, who was finance chief of RTL from 2000 to
2005, became Bertelsmann CEO on Jan. 1 and has been tasked to
expand the company’s digital business. Bertelsmann is looking
for acquisitions after it returned to profit last year helped by
rising advertising sales at RTL.  Schaeferkordt joined Bertelsmann in 1988 and became a
strategy executive at RTL in 1991. In 2005, she was appointed as
head of RTL’s German unit.  Zeiler is leaving Bertelsmann and RTL by “mutual and
amicable consent,” the company said. Zeiler, who joined RTL in
November 1998, began his career as a freelance journalist and
has also worked as CEO of Austrian public broadcaster ORF in
Vienna.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  