-- BHP Billiton First-Half Profit Drops 5.5% on Slide in Base Metals Earnings
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n   a n d   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-02-08T05:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bhp-billiton-first-half-profit-drops-5-5-on-slide-in-base-metals-earnings.html
BHP Billiton Ltd. (RIO) , the world’s
biggest mining company, reported a 5.5 percent drop in first-
half profit, the first decline since 2009, as rising costs and
lower output and prices cut base-metals earnings by half.  Net income  fell to $9.9 billion in the six months through
December from $10.5 billion a year earlier, the Melbourne-based 
company said in a statement. That compares with the $10 billion 
average  estimate  of seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Metal prices in  London  declined 20 percent in the half on
reduced demand in  Europe  and slowing industrial production in
 China , the world’s largest metals buyer. BHP, which is spending
$80 billion over the next five years to boost output of iron ore,
copper and coal, remains “cautious” on the market outlook,
Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  told a conference call.  “Their first half was characterized by a lot of
interruptions to production and that has an impact, not only on
volumes, but also in terms of cost so you would incur a higher
fixed cost,” Ray Chantry, a Melbourne-based resources analyst
at EL&C Baillieu Stockbroking Ltd. said by phone.  BHP (BHP)  shares fell 0.4 percent to A$37.75 at the close of
Sydney trading, compared with a 0.4 gain in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index. It will pay a dividend of 55 cents a share,
compared with 46 cents a year earlier. That compares with a
 projected dividend  of 53 cents a share, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Persisting Volatility  BHP has 16 “buy” and four “hold” recommendations,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company may post
full-year net income of $20.6 billion in fiscal 2012, according
to the median of 22 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “We expect volatility in commodity markets to persist as
the European sovereign debt crisis and general weakness in the
manufacturing and construction sectors across key markets are
expected to weigh on customer behavior and sentiment,” BHP said
in the statement. “We expect underlying demand growth rates to
remain robust, so long as the macroeconomic policy setting of
the developing world retains a growth bias.”  Lower production at BHP’s Australian coal operations
because of floods and strikes and lower copper output at  Chile ’s
Escondida mine, the world’s biggest, cut underlying earnings
before interest and tax by $484 million, the company said.  Lower Grades  “A temporary reduction in copper production at Escondida,
as a result of lower grades and industrial action, was the
primary driver of the decline, while industrial action and the
remnant effects of wet weather continued to constrain the
performance of our leading Queensland coal business,” BHP said.
Higher costs cut underlying earnings by $1.6 billion, while
lower prices reduced earnings in the base metals and stainless
steel materials units by $857 million, the company said.  Production at Escondida, managed by BHP, will improve
“significantly” beyond fiscal 2012 from accessing higher-grade
copper ore in the main pit, BHP said.  BHP’s base metal division underlying EBIT fell 54 percent
to $1.6 billion, while stainless steel underlying earnings
dropped to $1 million. The aluminum division made an underlying
loss of $67 million as costs increased. Record  iron ore 
production saw the unit’s earnings rise 36 percent to $7.9
billion, the company’s biggest profit generator. Petroleum
earnings gained 38 percent to $3.9 billion following the
purchase of U.S. shale assets.  “Key divisional under-performers were copper and coking
coal,” Morningstar Inc. analyst  Mark Taylor  said in an e-mailed
note. “The petroleum division produced better-than-expected
EBIT. Ironically, this division was where we had greatest
concern, given very low U.S. domestic gas prices -- that concern
apparently misplaced.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net ;
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net . 