-- Bidders Seen Overpaying at Brazil Airport Auction Leaves Losers as Winners
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-02-07T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bidders-seen-overpaying-at-brazil-airport-auction-leaves-losers-as-winners.html
Some of the world’s biggest airport
operators came away empty-handed after  Brazil  auctioned licenses
to run three of its busiest hubs. With the concessions fetching
five times the minimum bid, their caution may have been wise.  Brazilian contractors teamed up with companies in
Argentina, France and  South Africa  to bid 24.5 billion reais
($14 billion) yesterday for leases to Sao Paulo’s Guarulhos
international airport and two other facilities. The auction
marked an about-face for President Dilma Rousseff’s Workers’
Party, which abandoned its opposition to private investment in
the country’s airports as Brazil struggles to upgrade aging
terminals in time for the 2014  World Cup .  Shares in the only listed company among the winners, TPI -
Triunfo Participacoes e Investimentos, fell as investors saw the
premium it offered to pay as too high, while the leaders of two
losing consortiums rose. Groups including  Flughafen Zuerich AG (FHZN) ,
 Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide (FRA)  and operators of
 London ’s Heathrow and  Singapore ’s airport were also outbid.  “They certainly overpaid, particularly for Guarulhos, well
beyond what can be considered fair value,”  Daniela Bretthauer ,
an equities analyst with  Raymond James , said by telephone from
Sao Paulo.  Rousseff’s government was seeking to raise a minimum of 5.5
billion reais from the auction for the rights to operate the
three airports that last year accounted for about a third of
Brazil’s 179 million passengers last year and 57 percent of its
air cargo.  Political Pressure  Investimentos e Participacoes em Infra-Estrutura SA teamed
up with Airports Co. South Africa to bid 16.2 billion reais for
a 20-year lease of Guarulhos. That’s almost 4 billion reais more
than the second-highest bid by a group that included Fraport,
operator of  Frankfurt ’s airport, the world’s ninth busiest,
according to the Montreal-based  Airport Council International .  The dominance in the Invepar consortium of employee pension
funds linked to state-run companies also raises concern over
potential government meddling in the airport’s management, said
Mauro Rochlin, professor of economics at the IBMEC business
school in  Rio de Janeiro .  Rousseff has vowed to keep a safe distance from the
airports’ management, and yesterday’s auction was Brazil’s
boldest attempt at privatization since the 1990s, when it sold
off roads and utilities that suffered from decades of
underinvestment. Still, the state will maintain a 49 percent
stake in each consortium and via loans from state development
bank BNDES will fund much of the improvements.  “The question is how much political pressure the new
operators will face,” Rochlin said by telephone.  High Premiums  Sao Paulo-based Engevix Engenharia SA and Corporacion
America, which operates  Argentina ’s airports, offered the
biggest premium -- more than seven times the 582 million reais
minimum bid -- to run the airport in the capital Brasilia for 25
years. The two companies are building an airport near the
northeastern city of Natal after winning last year Brazil’s
first attempt to attract private investors to the industry.  Shares in Triunfo, which together with Paris-based Egis
Avia offered 3.8 billion reais to run Viracopos near Sao Paulo
for 30 years, fell 3.3 percent yesterday. In contrast, losing
bidders CCR SA and  Obrascon Huarte Lain Brasil SA (OHLB3) , both of them
Sao Paulo-based builders, rose 2.5 percent and 5.3 percent
respectively as the benchmark  Bovespa  index remained flat.  “It removed a heavy weight off the stocks,” Victor
Mizusaki, a transportation equities analyst at UBS AG in Sao
Paulo, said about the losing bidders. “The market was worried
about what would be the returns if they had won.”  Losing Bidders  Madrid-based  Ferrovial SA (FER) , which owns the company operating
Heathrow, and Changi Airport Group, which manages Singapore’s
main airport as well as projects in  China  and  Europe , made
losing bids through eight other groups.  Company spokesmen from Invepar, Engevix and Triunfo
declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News, while
Johannesburg-based ACSA didn’t respond to messages seeking
comment. Egis Avia couldn’t be reached after market hours.  Investments in Brazil’s aging airports have struggled to
keep pace with air travel that has doubled in the past decade as
incomes in Latin America’s biggest economy have risen. Last
year, as the world’s fifth-biggest country by land mass trailed
only the U.S. and China in volume of domestic air travel, 1 of
20 flights were canceled compared with 1 in 50 in the U.S.  To put an end to crowded hallways and busted escalators,
the winning operators are required to invest a total of 16.1
billion reais in the three airports, including building a new
terminal in Guarulhos to handle 7 million passengers a year. The
government is also weighing the possibility of leasing Rio de
Janeiro’s international airport and other travel hubs expected
to see a surge in traffic.  “Today’s auction was an important first step but still
insufficient,” Robson Andrade, head of the National Industry
Confederation, said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .
“More needs to be done to stimulate private sector
participation. There are many airports that require heavy
investments.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  