-- Billion-Ton Coal Market Looms as India Increases Sea Cargoes
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-07T11:48:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/billion-ton-coal-market-looms-as-india-increases-sea-cargoes.html
Coal may become the third commodity
to surpass annual shipments by sea of 1 billion metric tons,
joining crude oil and iron ore, as India raises imports of the
solid fuel to feed new  power plants .  Seaborne coal trade will expand 4 percent to 956 million
tons this year as Indian purchases gain 12 percent and imports
into China climb 8 percent, according to data from Clarkson
Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker. Deliveries may exceed 1 billion tons if Chinese
power plants buy extra, cheaper foreign thermal coal, according
to Calum Kennedy, a senior analyst with Clarkson in  London .  “Before, the iron-ore market was driving shipping
markets,” said Ole Henry Senne, chief commercial officer of
Singapore-based SIVA Bulk Ltd., whose vessels transport
Indonesian coal to India. “Now it’s India and China with their
coal needs. If you took away the coal from India and the coal
imported to  China , there probably wouldn’t be a market.”  SIVA Bulk is a unit of Chennai, India-based  SIVA Group . Its
annual Indian coal shipments came to 7.5 million tons in 2011,
up fivefold in two years, and accounted for 150 voyages, Senne
said by phone Jan. 31. China is the biggest global coal
consumer, and  Indonesia  is the largest exporter of the variety
burned to generate electricity.  Second-Largest Increase  Indian imports of coal burned for power will have this
year’s second-strongest growth among all the 3.7 billion tons of
global dry-bulk commodities shipped by sea, according to
Clarkson. The shipbroker projects a 17 percent increase to 104.2
million tons as Indian buying of coal used to make steel falls
3.4 percent. The fastest-growing trade is U.S. iron-ore imports,
predicted to jump 33 percent to 1.6 million tons.  Crude shipments by sea topped 2 billion tons in 2010, and
iron-ore transportation surpassed a billion tons for the first
time that year, Clarkson data show. Seaborne trade in coal
exceeded 1 billion tons last year, according to Simpson, Spence
& Young Ltd., the second-largest shipbroker, which predicts
further expansion in 2012.  India  relies on coal to meet 54 percent of its energy
needs, according to Nigel Bell, who books vessels to carry the
fuel to the country as managing director of Petersfield,
England-based shipbroker Bell Shipping. Total Indian demand will
top 645 million tons in the year through June, Bell said, citing
research prepared for his company by London-based Drewry
Shipping Consultants Ltd.  Imported Coal  The South Asian nation planned as of January 2010 to have
52 coal-fired power stations, of which 42 were to rely solely on
imported fuel, Bell said.  Coal-carrying vessels made 2,184 port calls in India in
2010, according to Drewry. Paradip on the eastern coast
accounted for the most, followed by Vizag and Haldia.  China would need to add 44 million tons of cargo to raise
global coal trade to 1 billion tons from Clarkson’s current
forecast. That equates to about four months’ imports.  Buying Australian coal and transporting it to China is now
profitable for traders, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Cargoes shipped to Beilun and Qingdao cost about $12 a ton less
than domestic prices, data show.  Australia  is the largest
shipper of steelmaking coal and also leads in terms of total
deliveries of the raw material.  Power coal will trade between $110 and $120 a ton this year
on average, Morgan Stanley forecasts. The benchmark Chinese
price for the fuel with an energy value of 5,500 kilocalories a
kilogram (2.2 pounds) was unchanged as of Feb. 5 in a range of
775 yuan ($122) to 785 yuan a ton after three months of
declines, figures released yesterday by the China Coal Transport
and Distribution Association showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  