-- Parcells’s Hall Snub Comes as Coughlin Rides in Super Parade
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-02-07T13:32:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bill-parcells-s-hall-snub-comes-as-tom-coughlin-rides-super-bowl-success.html
Bill Parcells , who led the  New York
Giants  to two Super Bowl titles and mentored coaches such as  Tom Coughlin  and  Bill Belichick , was unfairly left out of the  Pro
Football Hall of Fame ’s Class of 2012, former players said.  The 70-year-old Parcells, the only coach to lead four
different National Football League franchises to the playoffs,
wasn’t among the six candidates elected to the Hall of Fame on
Feb. 4. The voting came one day before current Giants coach
Coughlin won his second Super Bowl title, helping his own case
for entrance to the Canton, Ohio-based Hall and setting the
stage for today’s victory parade up the “Canyon of Heroes” in
lower  Manhattan .  Phil Simms, the former Giants quarterback who was the Most
Valuable Player in the team’s 1987 Super Bowl victory against
the  Denver Broncos , said Parcells “absolutely deserves to be in
the Hall of Fame.”  “I thought he was a shoo-in,” Simms, 57, said yesterday
in a radio interview with WFAN’s Mike Francesa in New York.
“There were a lot of people in the NFL very surprised too.”  The Giants’ 21-17 victory against the  New England Patriots 
two days ago was the second Super Bowl victory for Coughlin, who
joins Parcells as the only coaches to win a pair of NFL titles
in New York. Coughlin’s latest victory, four years after he led
the Giants to a 17-14 win against the Patriots in the 2008
championship game, should ensure his future place in the Hall of
Fame, according to team co-owner John Mara.  “With all the adversity he’s been through, to continue to
work so hard, I think he just earned a spot in Canton,” Mara
said in an interview on the field following the win.  Coaching Tree  Coughlin, at 65 the oldest coach to win a Super Bowl, was a
wide receivers coach under Parcells from 1988-1990. Parcells,
who was 172-130 in 22 NFL seasons, also has mentored Super Bowl-
winning coaches including Belichick, who has three NFL titles
with the Patriots, and Sean Payton of the  New Orleans Saints ,
who has one. Parcells last coached in 2006 with the  Dallas
Cowboys .  Each year’s Hall of Fame class is decided by a group of 44
media members from around the country, and each candidate needs
80 percent approval for election. Simms, whose own candidacy has
been debated, said Parcells’s brusqueness may have unfairly
played a role in the coach’s lack of votes.  “Now we’re talking about personality?” Simms said. “It’s
pitiful.”  Joe Horrigan, a spokesman for the Hall of Fame, didn’t
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the Parcells decision
and the efficacy of the voting process. Sports Illustrated
writer  Peter King , a member of the committee, wrote today that
the panel discussed Parcells for 57 minutes, longer than any
other candidate.  Super Bowls  Parcells took over as coach of the Giants in 1983, winning
Super Bowl titles following the 1986 and 1990 seasons. He
retired following the second title due to health reasons, and
returned to coaching in 1993 with the Patriots, leading them to
the Super Bowl following the 1996 season where they lost to the
 Green Bay Packers .  Parcells left  New England  for the  New York Jets  in 1997 and
retired again three years later, after going 29-19 with a
conference championship appearance. He was eligible for
induction into the Hall of Fame in 2001 and 2002, before
returning to the NFL as coach of the Dallas Cowboys in 2003. He
retired for the third time in 2006 after two playoff losses and
no postseason victories with the Cowboys.  Former Jets running back Curtis Martin, who was elected to
the Hall of Fame this year, said he would have given up his
candidacy if it meant Parcells got in.  “There’s God and then there’s Parcells, as far as the
meaning they’ve had on my career,” Martin said in a conference
call after the voting. “He was almost like a father figure.”  -- With assistance from Amanda L. Gordon in Indianapolis.
Editors: Larry Siddons, Jay Beberman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  