-- Biotech Crops Expand 8.1% as Brazil Farmers Plant More Soybeans
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-02-07T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/biotech-crops-expand-8-1-as-brazil-farmers-plant-more-soybeans.html
Global genetically modified crop
plantings rose 8.1 percent last year as Brazilian farmers grew
more herbicide-tolerant soybeans while their U.S. counterparts
raised more biotech corn and cotton, a non-profit group said in
an annual report.  The aggregate planted area grew to 160 million hectares
(395 million acres) from 148 million hectares in 2010, the
 International Service for the Acquisition of Agri-Biotech
Applications  said in the report published today. The ISAAA works
to alleviate hunger and poverty by sharing crop biotechnology,
according to its  website . It’s funded by governments,
foundations and companies including  Monsanto Co. , the world’s
biggest seed company.  Biotech plantings have risen every year since their
introduction in 1996, the U.S.-based group said.  Developing
countries  boosted plantings 11 percent in 2011 and matched
biotech plantings in industrialized countries for the first
time, the ISAAA said. Modified crops were grown by 16.7 million
farmers in 29 countries last year, it said.  Soybeans are the most popular biotech crop, with 82 percent
of the worldwide crop last year engineered to tolerate
applications of St. Louis-based Monsanto’s Roundup herbicide,
according to the report. At least 68 percent of all cotton was
modified to tolerate Roundup or produce Bt protein, a naturally
occurring insecticide, the ISAAA said. Almost one-third of corn
was engineered to tolerate herbicide or kill insects, it said.  U.S. Record  The value of engineered seeds climbed 13 percent to $13.3
billion, accounting for 35 percent of the $34 billion commercial
seed market, the ISAAA said, citing biotech consultant
 Cropnosis .  The U.S. accounted for 43 percent of global biotech
plantings with a record 69 million hectares, 3.3 percent more
than in 2010, the largest increase outside  Brazil , the ISAAA
said. Biotech corn plantings increased by 2 million hectares in
the U.S. and cotton added 1 million hectares, while biotech
soybeans dropped 1 million hectares.  Brazil planted 30.3 million hectares of engineered crops, a
20 percent increase, as farmers planted more biotech soybeans
and corn. Brazil is benefiting from Chinese demand and a
regulatory system that is accelerating approvals, the ISAAA
said. Brazil in September approved a virus-resistant soybean,
the first biotech crop developed by a public institution in a
developing nation, according to the report.  Argentina  planted 23.7 million hectares of modified soy,
corn and cotton. India remained the fourth-biggest biotech crop
grower with 10.6 million hectares of insect-resistant cotton,
the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  