-- Bird-Watching Chief Gupta Pursues 12% Return as DBS Group Expands in Asia
-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 2012-02-08T03:39:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bird-watching-ceo-gupta-chases-returns-as-dbs-expands-in-asia.html
Piyush Gupta, chief executive officer
of  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , Southeast Asia’s largest bank,
picked banking over a passion for bird-watching three decades
ago. Now his plans for regional expansion are taking flight.  Gupta, who joined the Singapore-based lender in 2009 after
a 27-year career at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , is positioning DBS to take
advantage of rising wealth in Asia and to reduce reliance on its
home market.  The shift in strategy has delivered profit of more than
S$700 million ($560 million) in four of the last five  quarters ,
a level last reached in mid-2004. Fourth-quarter results will be
announced Feb. 10, with analysts predicting net income of S$704
million, the average of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “Over the past year and a half, you can see that DBS has
become a much more dynamic organization,” said Yasmin Krishan,
a client director who specializes in the financial industry at
 EMA Partners , a London-based executive search firm. “Before,
they were regarded as a clumsy giant. You never thought of DBS
as this exciting place.”  Gupta, 52, has focused on building DBS’s wealth-management
business to reach rich Asians, particularly in  China ,  India  and
 Indonesia . He has hired new management, introduced products
including Chinese yuan-denominated investments and pledged to
spend S$250 million to expand over the next five years. He also
set a 2013 target for the bank of 12 percent return on equity,
which was 10.8 percent in the third quarter of last year.  Paying Off  The effort is paying off. Revenue in China for the first
nine months of 2011 rose 47 percent from a year earlier, helped
by the purchase of  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s retail-and
commercial-banking business in the country. It was up 35 percent
in Indonesia, 34 percent in India and 18 percent in Taiwan. Fee
revenue from  wealth management  jumped 58 percent.  Gupta also spent the last two years “putting the basics
into place,” he told the  Foreign Correspondents’ Association  in
 Singapore  in November. That meant standardizing management
processes and strengthening technology and infrastructure. It
included improving operations at its  Hong Kong unit , the former
Dao Heng Bank Group Ltd. acquired in 2001 for $5.4 billion.  “When I took a deep look at the business, it appeared to
me that we had never put in place the plumbing or the
architecture required to run a multinational company,” he said.  Uniform Practices  Before Gupta took over at DBS, managers didn’t know whether
a branch or a customer was profitable, and they lacked uniform
practices, Gupta said. He cited an example of an employee who,
to prove a point, ran a credit application through the systems
in  Hong Kong  and Singapore. It was approved in Hong Kong and
declined in Singapore.  Gupta said he found striking differences from the
procedures, customer focus and information systems at Citigroup,
notwithstanding the New York-based bank’s $45 billion government
bailout in 2008. Gupta, who grew up in New Delhi and earned a
Master’s of Business Administration from the Indian Institute of
Management in Ahmedabad, joined Citigroup in 1982, rising to
head its Southeast  Asia ,  Australia  and New Zealand operations.  “There’s no question that a large part of what I learned
at Citi is what we’re trying to implement at DBS,” Gupta said
in an interview in November.  He set about cutting turnaround time for credit
applications and new accounts, shortening wait times at the DBS
call center and making branches and ATMs more efficient.  “He’s been a sharp executor,” said Sachin Nikhare, a
Singapore-based banking analyst at IIFL Capital Pte.  Corporate Banking  Gupta said he wants DBS to be seen as a strong player in
corporate banking in Asia, including in trade financing, cash
management and treasury services.  “We want to move from being a loan house, and we were
heavily a loan house, to being a diversified corporate bank,”
Gupta said.  Gupta is seeking to lower Singapore’s contribution to the
bank’s total revenue to 40 percent from 60 percent in five years
by growing faster abroad than at home. Greater China and south
and  Southeast Asia  would each account for 30 percent, DBS said.
For the first nine months of 2011, revenue from Singapore was 62
percent of the total, unchanged from a year earlier.  At a media event in October, Gupta said the bank will
continue to build the Singapore consumer franchise, which it
inherited when it bought Singapore’s Post Office Savings Bank
and its subsidiary Credit POSB Pte in 1998.  Government Stake  DBS was established in 1968 as a government-controlled
development bank to spur Singapore’s industrialization three
years after the country’s founding.  Temasek Holdings Pte (TMSK) , the
state-owned  investment company , controls 27 percent of  the bank .
Peter Seah Lim Huat, chairman of DBS, is a member of Temasek’s
advisory panel. Temasek Deputy Chairman Kwa Chong Seng sits on
the board of DBS.  Gupta said DBS was a local commercial bank until the end of
the 1990s, run mostly by people seconded from the government.
DBS then departed from this by hiring CEOs with deal-making
experience or  investment-banking  backgrounds, he said.  From the early 2000s, DBS was run “almost more as an
investment bank than a commercial bank,” said Matthew Smith, an
analyst at Macquarie Capital Securities Singapore Pte.  When DBS hired Gupta’s predecessor, Richard Stanley, who
ran Citigroup in China, the bank touted his deal-making skills.
Stanley, who died in April 2009 after being diagnosed with
leukemia, had replaced Jackson Tai, who joined from New York-
based JPMorgan Chase & Co., where he was a managing director in
the investment-banking division.  Gupta was appointed for his “strategic, yet detail-
oriented” approach, according to a release announcing his
appointment in September 2009.  Lack of Boundaries  Gupta has kept revenue from investment banking at the same
level as his predecessors -- it was 2.7 percent in the first
nine months of 2011, the same as in 2007 -- even as deal-making
and capital-raising has declined since its 2007 peak.  A lack of “boundaries” under his predecessors meant the
bank ended up with a lot of “hobby businesses” in the  Middle
East , Britain and the U.S., Gupta said. DBS had to write down
more than S$1 billion in 2009 for nonperforming corporate loans
in these areas as it turned its attention to Asia operations.  Revenue from what DBS calls the rest of the world dropped
to 3.6 percent for the first nine months of 2011 from 5.1
percent at the end of 2009.  Clear Vision  Like his predecessors, “Piyush also has ambitions of being
a regional bank, but what he has done differently is that he has
clearly articulated the vision, quantified it and has been a
sharp executor,” said Nikhare of IIFL Securities. “While
others would say, ‘We want to be a regional bank with a large
Asia presence,’ he has firstly acknowledged, ‘We are a
Singaporean bank with a regional presence.’”  DBS said in November 2010 it was aiming for “double-
digit” percentage growth in the wealth-management business
annually from  emerging markets  over the next few years, and to
increase managed assets to $50 billion over three years. Managed
assets grew $2 billion to $37 billion by the end of November,
according to DBS.  To help reach the goal, DBS hired Su Shan Tan from Morgan
Stanley to head the private banking unit in 2010 and started a
special business unit last year for clients with investable
assets of at least S$1.5 million, a separate tier from the
bank’s services for people with more than S$5 million to invest.
The lender also ran its first advertising campaign in Hong Kong
and Singapore aimed at wealthy depositors last year.  Getting Aggressive  “The private bank is getting very aggressive,” said
Krishan of EMA Partners. “They’re recruiting. They’re coming up
with products. They’re doing a lot more in that space.”  DBS’s private bank ranked 10th by assets in Asia in 2010,
according to a Private Banker International survey, ahead of
Bank of Singapore, the private-banking arm of  Oversea-Chinese
Banking (OCBC)  Corp. Asia’s top three wealth managers were  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
Citigroup and HSBC Holdings Plc, according to the survey.  Asia-Pacific millionaires outnumbered those in  Europe  for
the first time in 2010, according to a survey by Capgemini SA
and Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch Global Wealth
Management. Asia’s 3.3 million high-net-worth individuals had
$10.8 trillion in assets compared with the $10.2 trillion
accumulated by their 3.1 million counterparts in Europe,
according to the report published last June.  Before today, DBS had risen 1 percent in Singapore trading
since Gupta took over on Nov. 9, 2009, while the benchmark
Straits Times Index has gained 11 percent. Rivals  United
Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  and Oversea-Chinese Banking lost 1.3 percent
and gained 10 percent, respectively. OCBC has a larger presence
in more profitable loan markets such as Malaysia and Indonesia.
DBS rose 0.4 percent to S$13.57 as of 11:33 a.m. in Singapore.  ‘Extremely Energetic’  “One reason for the underperformance of DBS is where we
are in the interest-rate cycle, and DBS’s larger presence in
low-margin markets such as Singapore, Hong Kong and Taiwan,”
said Macquarie’s Smith, who has a  neutral rating  on DBS. “If
 interest rates  were to rise, DBS could be the biggest
beneficiary, aided by their low-cost funding base in
Singapore.”  People who know Gupta say he has what it takes to reach the
goals he has set for the bank.  “Whatever he puts his mind to, he does it well,” said
Krishan of EMA Partners, who has known Gupta since a 1986 picnic
outing with a group of friends in Mumbai including her to-be
husband who was a Citibank colleague of Gupta’s. “Even outside
of the bank, he is an extremely energetic person, very creative.
He writes poetry -- fun, humorous, witty stuff.”  While still pursuing his passions for poetry and bird-
watching, Gupta advised the 2011 graduating class at the
National University of Singapore to find a professional calling
as well.  “Going through life with ‘bird-watcher’ on my visiting
card,” he said, “just didn’t seem like a tenable option.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in Singapore at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  