-- BofA Stalls Refinance Work as Wells Is ‘Open for Business’
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-02-08T15:05:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bofa-said-to-put-off-loan-refinancing-clients-as-u-s-relief-spurs-demand.html
Bank of America Corp ., struggling to
handle mortgage refinancing after a U.S. program boosted demand,
is telling some customers to wait 90 days before starting an
application, said two people with knowledge of the policy.  The firm began a reservation system last week that asks
those who call during high-volume times if they wish to be
contacted again in 60 to 90 days, said two people who requested
anonymity because the measure hasn’t been announced.  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co., the biggest U.S.
mortgage lenders, said they aren’t stalling customers.  The delays may push borrowers to other lenders or
discourage them from taking advantage of record low  interest
rates . The government’s Home Affordable Refinance Program, which
helps homeowners lower payments, has increased refinance
applications and strained capacity at Bank of America, which
exited some mortgage lines last year. The U.S. program, now
dubbed HARP 2, was broadened in 2011 so more people qualify.  “The HARP 2 program is a much bigger deal than people
thought, and Bank of America is dysfunctional to begin with,”
 Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets Corp., said in an
interview. “This is a result of getting out of the business at
the exact time they should be getting into the business.”  Customers with Bank of America checking accounts or who
apply at a branch aren’t subject to the delay, said one person.  ‘Deficit of Trust’  President  Barack Obama  made jolting the housing market from
its doldrums a focus of his State of the Union address last
month, when he proposed a separate program to help more
borrowers take advantage of low interest rates. The proposal
would let homeowners who are current on their payments save
$3,000 a year through refinancing into lower-interest loans
guaranteed by the  Federal Housing Administration .  “No more red tape; no more runaround from the banks,”
Obama said in his Jan. 24 address to Congress. “A small fee on
the largest financial institutions will ensure that it won’t add
to the deficit, and will give banks that were rescued by
taxpayers a chance to repay a deficit of trust.”  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  told employees
last month he was proud the firm stuck with clients during the
tumult of 2011, when it sold assets to repair the balance sheet.  “What we didn’t do is what a lot of people are doing
around the world, which is walk away from their customers,”
Moynihan, 52, said during a Jan. 19 staff meeting.  ‘Strong Demand’  The move is the latest by Bank of America, once the biggest
mortgage lender and now No. 4, to prioritize who it serves as
the firm scales back mortgage operations. Last month, the
company suspended refinancings that allowed homeowners to
extract cash from their properties. Bank of America’s policies
may be reversed if demand falls or as more employees are added,
one person said.  “We’ve had strong demand, especially from the
implementation of HARP 2, and we’re working hard to satisfy that
demand as capably as we can,” said  Terry Francisco , a spokesman
for the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank.  Bank of America lost about three-quarters of its market
share in U.S. home mortgages since 2007 while grappling with
defective loans inherited from its acquisition of Countrywide
Financial Corp., falling to 5.6 percent of originations in the
fourth quarter, according to Miller. Refinancing makes up about
80 percent of all mortgage lending in the U.S., he said.  ‘Open for Business’  By some measures, the lender trails peers including
 JPMorgan (JPM)  and San Francisco-based Wells Fargo in aiding troubled
homeowners with HARP. Prepayment speeds for the high-rate
mortgages serviced by Bank of America and targeted by the
program run at levels that retire as much as 15 percent less
debt annually than similar JPMorgan-managed loans, according to
a December report from Morgan Stanley.  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. mortgage lender, hasn’t
limited refinance applications or discouraged borrowers,
according to Franklin Codel, head of mortgage production.  “We are open for business,” Codel said yesterday in a
phone interview. “We have not constrained inflows in any way.”  JPMorgan, the largest  U.S. bank  and second-biggest mortgage
lender, has also seen an increase in applications with the
expanded eligibility requirements under HARP and interest rates
near historic lows,  Tom Kelly , a spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “We have steadily increased capacity, which is helping us
to maintain our turnaround times and customer satisfaction,”
Kelly said.  Please Hold  No. 3  Citigroup Inc. (C)  is “experiencing longer hold times
but we continue to serve our customers with refinance
opportunities,”  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for the New York-
based bank, said yesterday in an e-mail, without elaborating.  Last year, Bank of America asked the  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , the overseer to  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , to
change parts of the HARP program that the firm deemed difficult
to implement. HARP, which started in 2009, covers loans
guaranteed by the two government-supported firms.  Obama urged changes to the program for borrowers with
little or no home equity to spur more  refinancing  and help boost
the economy. HARP has helped less than a quarter of the 4
million to 5 million borrowers projected when the program was
announced in February 2009, and delays may restrict the push to
bolster  housing  and consumer spending.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  