-- BP Raises Dividend After Quarterly Earnings
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-02-07T17:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bp-quarterly-earnings-gain-on-oil-prices-lifts-dividend.html
BP Plc , Europe’s second-biggest oil
company, raised its dividend after earnings beat analyst
estimates on higher crude prices.  Fourth-quarter earnings, adjusted for one-time items and
changes in inventory, were $5 billion, compared with $4.36
billion a year earlier, exceeding larger rival Royal Dutch Shell
Plc. The average  estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for profit of $4.9 billion on that basis.  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  boosted the payout by
14 percent to 8 cents a share, the first increase since the
company resumed dividends a year ago after the Macondo well
disaster led to the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.
Net  cash flow  in 2014, with  oil prices  at around $100 a barrel,
will be around 50 percent higher than in 2011, the company said.  “BP is on the turn and has been since the third quarter,”
said Stuart Joyner, an analyst at Investec Securities. The
dividend increase is “very much a starter of where the company
wants to go post-Macondo.”  Net income rose to $7.7 billion from $5.6 billion in the
fourth quarter of 2010, the London-based company said today in a
statement. Settlements from some partners allowed BP to register
a $4.1 billion credit for spill costs in the fourth quarter.  “This is a first good step for investors,” Dudley said in
a television interview. “You can look to BP to have a
progressive dividend policy.”  ‘Broadly Flat’  BP, which expects production to be “broadly flat” this
year, plans to increase investment in projects by about 16
percent to $22 billion. It plans to sell assets worth $38
billion by the end of next year, with about 120,000 barrels of
oil equivalent capacity a day to be sold this year.  Production slipped 5 percent from a year ago to 3.49
million barrels of oil equivalent a day, mainly due to lower
output in the  Gulf of Mexico . That’s still higher than output in
the third quarter.  BP’s earnings were also supported by a lower-than-expected
effective tax rate of 27 percent, said  Jason Kenney , an analyst
at Banco Santander SA. “BP’s medium-term upstream volume
outlook is steady despite divestments,” he said.  Output suffered for more than a year after the Gulf of
Mexico spill forced the company to shut down fields for safety
reviews and sell assets to raise cash.  Trial Start  The company is set to start a nonjury trial on Feb. 27 to
determine liability and apportion fault for the Macondo
disaster.  Dudley said the company was prepared to reach a settlement
beforehand if the conditions are right.  “With a reasonable settlement, we will settle,” he said.
“If it’s not a reasonable settlement, we’ll go to court.”  BP shares remain about a third lower than before the spill.
The stock fell 0.6 percent to 486.5 pence as of the 4:30 p.m.
close in London.  The company reached agreements with well partners  Anadarko
Petroleum  Plc and  Mitsui & Co ., as well as with  Cameron
International Corp ., the maker of the blowout prevention
equipment for the well. It has yet to reach agreements with
 Transocean  Ltd., the owner of the Deepwater Horizon rig that
exploded and sank, or cement maker  Halliburton Co .  The company plans to dispose of the Texas City and Carson
refineries by the end of this year.  Shell, Dividend  Shell,  Europe ’s largest energy company, last week reported
a drop in net income to an adjusted $4.8 billion and also
announced plans to increase the dividend.  Exxon Mobil Corp ., the
world’s biggest producer, said Jan. 31 that sales missed analyst
expectations as production dropped.  BP’s refining profit was supported by “strong operations”
at its refineries. Replacement cost profit before interest and
tax for refining and marketing fell to $564 million in the
quarter from $964 million in the year-earlier period.  Shell’s profit was hampered by a $278 million loss in its
refining operations. BP’s refining market margin, a generic
measure of profitability, slipped to $9.10 per barrel in the
fourth quarter from $9.98 a year earlier.  Brent crude prices climbed to $109.02 a barrel on average
in the fourth quarter, 25 percent higher than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in  London  at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  