-- Brazil Police Strike Leads to Murder Spree in Carnival Center of Salvador
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i
-- 2012-02-08T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/brazil-police-strike-leads-to-murder-spree-in-carnival-center-of-salvador.html
A surge in homicides as a result of a
police officers’ strike in northeastern  Brazil  is causing
travelers to cancel their Carnival holidays and may spread to
the country’s party capital Rio de Janeiro.  About 1,000 soldiers sent by the federal government
yesterday continued to surround the Bahia state assembly in
Salvador, which hundreds of officers and their families have
occupied for a week to demand higher wages. The homicide rate in
the city of 2.7 million, Brazil’s third-largest, has more than
doubled to leave 100 dead since Jan. 31, when a third of Bahia’s
30,000 police walked off the job, according to the state
government.  TV images of masked bandits holding up buses at gunpoint
and troops  firing tear gas  at protesters caused a 10 percent
fall in hotel reservations in Bahia, said Pedro Galvao, head of
the state’s travel agents association.  The strike is renewing concerns about public security as
Brazil prepares to host hundreds of thousands of tourists during
the 2014  World Cup  and the Olympics two years later. Several
cities, such as Recife and Rio, have among the world’s highest
homicide rates, and human rights groups, such as  Amnesty
International , have repeatedly criticized the use of excessive
force by Brazilian police.  “It’s very disconcerting,” Galvao said by telephone from
Salvador, which in less than two weeks will host Brazil’s
second-biggest carnival celebration. “Tourism is very sensitive
to these things.”  Fiscal Challenge  Police in the states of Rio, which begins its world-
renowned, four-day Carnival on Feb. 19, and Espirito Santo, will
decide over the next week whether to go on strike as well. All
are demanding the approval of a constitutional amendment that
would establish a national minimum salary for uniformed forces.  That’s a challenge for many of Brazil’s cash-strapped
states, whose ability to raise revenue and sell debt are limited
by federal law enacted a decade ago to rein in public spending
that for decades fueled inflation.  “In a poor state revenues are smaller and the weight of
the payroll is higher,” Raul Velloso, an economist specializing
in public finance, said by telephone from Brasilia. “Police are
seeing the economic boom and none of it is going into their
pockets.”  In Rio, the entry-level salary for police officers is
1,137 reais ($661) per month.  “The world’s sixth-largest economy can’t continue to pay a
miserable wage to those who risk their lives for the Brazilian
people,” reads the website of the movement calling for a
nationwide  police strike  in favor of the amendment.  U.S. Travel Warning  Salvador ’s homicide rate in 2010 was 55.5 per 100,000
inhabitants, according the  Map of Violence  published by the
Instituto Sangari, a Sao Paulo-based think tank. By comparison,
the  murder rate  in  New York  is 6.5 per 100,000, according to a
2011 United Nations study.  The U.S. Embassy in Brasilia advised U.S. citizens to avoid
non-essential travel to Salvador, citing “a risk of violence”
and reports of increased  looting  and car thefts.  Jacques Wagner, Bahia’s governor, has offered to increase
wages by 6.5 percent to match last year’s inflation rate. Backed
by President Dilma Rousseff’s government, he’s also issued an
arrest warrant for strike leaders, saying that instigating
violence is unacceptable. Strikes by security forces in Brazil
are illegal, according to a 2009 Supreme Court decision.  Amid the threats of a strike by some police officers in
Rio, security officials have tried to reassure residents that
security will not be affected during Carnival. Governor Sergio Cabral is also pushing lawmakers to approve this week a bill to
raise wages for uniformed officers by 39 percent over the next
two years.  “We’re making a big budgetary effort to start right now in
February to raise wages,” Regis Fichtner, the Governor’s chief
of staff, told state lawmakers yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Chiarini in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  