-- Brazil Said to Consider Smaller Budget Cuts Than Economists Are Seeking
-- B y   A r n a l d o   G a l v a o
-- 2012-02-07T20:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/brazil-said-to-consider-smaller-budget-cuts-than-economists-are-seeking.html
Brazilian policy makers are
considering cutting the 2012  budget  by less than 50 billion
reais ($29 billion), two people familiar with the plan said. The
amount is less than some local economists expect, prompting 
yields on long-term  interest rate  futures to rise.  The government is trying to balance the need to contain
spending while it increases public investment to spur growth,
said the two people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because
the proposal must be approved by President Dilma Rousseff.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said last month the budget
cut would be enough to ensure the government would fully meet
this year’s fiscal target. The plan, he said, was to keep in
place a “solid” fiscal policy to make room for lower interest
rates. On Jan. 26, the central bank said there was a high
probability it would cut the benchmark interest rate to less
than 10 percent from 10.5 percent.  To fully meet its target for a  budget surplus  before
interest payments of 139.8 billion reais, the government would
need to reduce the budget by about 60 billion reais, said
 Roberto Padovani , chief economist at Votorantim Corretora, in a
telephone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Room for Maneuver  “A smaller budget cut reduces the government’s ability to
convince people inflation will converge to target this year,”
Padovani said. “The debate over whether  Brazil  has room to keep
interest rates at one digit will only increase.”  The yields on interest rate futures contracts maturing
January 2021 reversed earlier losses and rose 2 basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 11.39 percent.  Most analysts are expecting a budget cut of 60 billion
reais,  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank.  “The government will have to explain how less than 50
billion reais can be enough,” he said.  The size of the budget cut hasn’t been decided yet, Mantega
told reporters in Brasilia today.  Credit Suisse said in a Feb. 3 report the government would
be more likely to meet its fiscal target if it reduced the 2012
budget by 60 billion reais.  Inflation will slow back to its 4.5 percent target this
year from 6.44 percent in the 12 months through mid-January,
central bank President Alexandre Tombini said Feb. 2 in Mumbai.  Brazil’s consumer prices will rise 5.3 percent this year,
according to the median forecast in a Feb. 3 central bank  survey 
of about 100 economists published yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arnaldo Galvao in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 agalvao1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriana Arai at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net  