-- Bush Tells Dealers He Avoided ‘Gamble’ in Bailing Out Automakers
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/bush-tells-dealers-he-avoided-gamble-in-bailing-out-automakers.html
Former U.S. President  George W. Bush 
told car dealers gathered at a convention in  Las Vegas  he
“didn’t want to gamble” with a depression in defending the
loans he gave to  General Motors Corp.  and Chrysler LLC.  “I didn’t want there to be 21 percent unemployment,” Bush
said in a speech yesterday to cap the annual National Automobile
Dealers Association convention, attended by more than 20,000
people. “I didn’t want to gamble. I didn’t want history to look
back and say, ‘Bush could have done something but chose not to
do it.’ And so I said, ‘no depression.’”  The  Bush administration  provided loans to GM and Chrysler
starting with $4 billion to each company in December 2008 and
January 2009. Bush eventually provided $17.4 billion in aid to
the automakers before Barack Obama’s administration expanded the
rescue of the companies to $62 billion.  Obama has cited the assistance given to the  auto industry 
as an example of policy that protected U.S. jobs. Republican
presidential candidates including  Mitt Romney  have criticized
the moves by Bush and Obama as bailouts that interfered with
private markets and contributed to the national deficit.  “I’d make the same decision again if I had to,” Bush, 65,
told Stephen Wade, the dealers association’s outgoing chairman.  GM, which emerged from bankruptcy as  General Motors Co. (GM) ,
has since regained leadership in global auto sales, while
Chrysler, which became Chrysler Group LLC, last year made its
first profit since emerging from bankruptcy with the backing of
Italian automaker  Fiat SpA. (F)   Super Bowl Ad  Ford Motor Co. (F) , which voiced support for its competitors’
bailouts because of risks to suppliers, joined GM and Chrysler
in gaining U.S. market share in 2011, the first time all three
did so since 1988, according to Autodata Corp.  Chrysler aired a two-minute Super Bowl commercial on Feb. 5
featuring actor and Academy Award-winning director  Clint Eastwood , who heralded the city of Detroit’s recovery and told
America that its “second half is about to begin.”  The spot by  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler may have
resonance in an election year when the economy, job growth and
government bailouts are key criticisms by Republican candidates
seeking to run against Obama.  “My view with regards to the bailout was that, whether it
was by President Bush or by President Obama, it was the wrong
way to go,” Romney said at a Nov. 9 debate in Rochester,
Michigan. Romney, whose father George was chief executive
officer of American Motors Corp. and a Michigan governor, has
said U.S. bankruptcy laws work fine without White House
involvement.  Bailout ‘Frustrating’  Bush told dealers he still believes in the free market.  “If you make a bad decision in business, you ought to
pay,” he said. “The problem is, sometimes circumstances get in
the way of philosophy.”  Bush wrote in his 2010 memoir “Decision Points” that he
met with Obama six days after the current president’s election
and discussed the auto companies in the Oval Office. Within the
week, he told his economic team he “wouldn’t let the automakers
fail.”  “Nobody was more frustrated than I was,” he wrote. “It
was frustrating to have the automakers’ rescue be my last major
economic decision. But with the market not yet functioning, I
had to safeguard American workers and families from a widespread
collapse. I also had my successor in mind.”  Boosting Production  Automakers are increasing production at car plants after
U.S. light-vehicle sales rose by at least 10 percent for two
straight years for the first time since 1984. The momentum for
added production is expected to continue this year as the
nation’s auto deliveries may rise to 13.6 million, the average
estimate of 18 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. light-vehicle sales rose 11 percent in 2010 and 10
percent last year after falling to a 27-year low of 10.4 million
in 2009, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata.  States that were hard-hit by the 2007-2009 recession, such
as  Michigan , have been among the biggest beneficiaries of the
industry’s rebound. Since 2008,  Michigan ’s economy fared better
than that of any other state, except for oil-booming  North
Dakota , according to the Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of
States. The index calculates growth by examining  job creation ,
personal income,  tax revenue , housing prices, mortgage
delinquencies and the stock performance of locally based
companies.  GM, Chrysler, and Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford will hire
or retain 42,300 employees nationwide over four years thanks in
part to new United Auto Workers contracts.  Michigan’s unemployment rate dropped to  9.3 percent  in
December, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. That was
the lowest since September 2008 and is down from a high of 14.1
percent in August 2009. In  Detroit , where both GM and the UAW
are based, the metropolitan  region’s  unemployment rate has
fallen to 9.7 percent from a high of 16.6 percent in July 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  