-- HTC Declines on Weak Sales Guidance, IPhone Competition: Taipei Mover
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-02-07T04:06:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/htc-drops-on-weak-guidance-stiffer-competition-taipei-mover.html
HTC Corp. , Asia’s second-largest
smartphone maker, fell the most in two months in Taipei
trading after forecasting first-quarter revenue that missed
analyst estimates as it faces tougher competition in the U.S.  HTC  dropped  as much as its 6.9 percent daily limit, the
most on an intraday basis since Dec. 5, and traded 6.5
percent lower at NT$515 as of 11:31 a.m. in Taipei. Trading
volume was double the three-month daily average. Sales this
quarter will be NT$65 billion ($2.2 billion) to NT$70 billion,
the Taoyuan-based company said yesterday. That’s the lowest
since the second quarter of 2010 and below the NT$84.9
billion average of 14 analyst estimates.  Competition from  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Samsung
Electronics Co.’s Galaxy models damped demand for HTC devices
in the U.S., while sales of faster LTE fourth-generation
models didn’t meet expectations, Chief Financial Officer
Winston Yung said yesterday. New models will be released next
quarter, prompting the weak guidance this period as the
company awaits “product transition,” Yung said.  “HTC is likely to lose further economies of scale in
manufacturing in 2012 and 2013, as we forecast its shipments
for 2012 to decline further to one-third of those of Samsung
and Apple, down from half for 2011,” Alex Chang, an analyst
at Daiwa Capital Markets in Taipei, wrote in a report today.
Daiwa downgraded the stock to “sell” from “hold” and
lowered the six-month target price to NT$333.  IPhone 4S  HTC became the largest smartphone maker in the U.S.
during the third quarter as consumers awaited the next iPhone
model, according to data from researcher Canalys. HTC cut its
fourth-quarter sales outlook on Nov. 23 by more than 20
percent, citing competition from the iPhone 4S, which went on
sale in October.  Thirteen of 35 analysts tracked by Bloomberg now
 recommend  investors sell the stock, with eight saying “buy”
and 14 advising to “hold.”  HTC will release new models at the  Mobile World Congress 
to be held in  Barcelona ,  Spain , from Feb. 27 while Samsung
won’t announce its newest Galaxy S3 at the show, Yolanda Wang,
a Taipei-based analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc, wrote in a
report. She maintained her “underweight” rating on the
stock and cut her price estimate 6 percent to NT$386.  “We expect the new model announcements at the MWC will
drive HTC’s share price in the near term,” Wang wrote.
“However, we expect the rebound will be short-lived given
the competition from both high-end and lowend.”  The shares, which have risen 4 percent this year,
dropped 42 percent in 2011 and are down more than 58 percent
from their April peak.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  