-- Caesars Entertainment Doubles After Completing IPO Smaller Than 2010 Try
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-02-08T21:56:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/caesars-entertainment-fetches-1-13-billion-valuation-after-pricing-of-ipo.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp., the U.S.
casino chain with more than $22 billion in debt, jumped 71
percent in its trading debut after completing an initial public
offering a fraction of the size of its failed 2010 effort.  The stock rose to $15.39 as of 4 p.m. New York time,
valuing Caesars at $1.92 billion. The price almost doubled
earlier in the day, tripping circuit breakers, while the volume
was more than six times the number of shares sold in the
offering. Caesars raised $16.3 million selling less than 2
percent of its shares at $9 each.  That compares with the $531 million IPO scrapped in
November 2010. The new offering paves the way for the sale of
additional shares by investors in Caesars’ 2008 buyout, led by
Apollo Global Management LLC and TPG Capital, and the biggest in
history for a U.S. casino. Owners may seek to sell stock valued
at more than $500 million based on today’s closing price.  “The float is small, so not too much surprises me” about
the stock gain,  David Bain , a  Newport Beach , California-based
senior analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., said in an e-mail.
“Where shares trade today is likely not a good benchmark for
future Caesars valuation.”  Caesars, trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the
symbol CZR, originally offered the shares for $8 to $10 apiece.
The Las Vegas-based company priced in the middle of the range,
selling 1.81 million shares, according to a statement.  Rights to Sell  Existing Caesars investors may sell 34.7 million shares
after the IPO, according to the prospectus. That gives firms
such as Paulson & Co., the hedge fund run by billionaire  John Paulson , a chance to exit and potentially return cash to
investors.  Paulson & Co., which owns 9.9 percent, has the right
to sell 12.4 million shares.  Shareholders including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and
Deutsche Bank AG have the right to sell 22.3 million shares.
Apollo and TPG didn’t plan to sell shares in the IPO and aren’t
among the funds that have registered for additional sales.  Caesars pulled a registration filing to sell as much as
$500 million in shares following the IPO, a person with
knowledge of the matter said this week. An amended filing for
the offering on Feb. 6 didn’t mention the $500 million
registration.  “They weren’t going to be able to get anything done unless
they did an unbelievably small offering,” said Chad Mollman, an
equity analyst at Morningstar Inc. in  Chicago . “There’s a huge
overhang on the stock” because of potential future sales,
Mollman said.  Buyout Boom  Credit Suisse Group AG and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  led the IPO. The
company plans to use proceeds for general purposes including
development projects, possible acquisitions and maintenance
expenses.  Chief Executive Officer Gary Loveman led Caesars during its
takeover, announced in 2006 in the midst of a record buyout
boom. About $1.6 trillion in leveraged buyouts were completed
from 2005 to 2007, according to Preqin Ltd., a London-based
research firm. Caesars, then known as Harrah’s Entertainment
Inc., traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol HET
until 2008.  Apollo, TPG and firms that co-invested in the buyout were
poised to own about 70 percent of Caesars common stock after the
IPO, the filing showed.  Enterprise Value  Caesars has an enterprise value of $23.3 billion, or 12.2
times adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization of $1.92 billion, excluding costs such as one-time
acquisition expenses, the filing shows. That compares with a
valuation of 14.6 times Ebitda in the failed 2010 IPO that
sought to raise more than 30 times the size of this offering.  While Caesars has slashed costs since the buyout, sales
were little changed at $6.7 billion in the nine months ended
Sept. 30, and the company still doesn’t have casino operations
in Macau, the world’s largest gambling market, where  Las Vegas 
Sands Corp. and  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  get the bulk of their sales.  That may weigh on the company’s valuation, Chris Snow, a
senior analyst at New York research firm CreditSights Inc., said
before the pricing.  “The long-term debate about whether they deserve the
multiple is valid” because Caesars doesn’t have casino
operations in Macau, said Snow. The valuation is “pretty
aggressive.”  Vegas, Atlantic City  Caesars gets more than 90 percent of its sales from the
U.S., with more than 50 properties across the country. Revenue
in Las Vegas, Caesars’ biggest market, rose 6.5 percent in the
nine months through September as sales in  Atlantic City  and
other smaller U.S. markets sank. By comparison, total gambling
revenue in Macau surged 42 percent for all of 2011.  On a non-adjusted basis, Caesars’ enterprise value is 12.9
times Ebitda, compared with 2010, when the company sought a
valuation of 12.4 times pretax earnings. That’s more than Wynn,
which traded at 10.5 times Ebitda as of Feb. 3.  Las Vegas Sands (LVS) 
traded at 15.8 times Ebitda.  Caesars stands to benefit as the  U.S. economy  improves,
said Dennis Farrell, a casino-debt analyst with  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . American gross
domestic product grew at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the final
quarter of 2011, the fastest pace since the second quarter of
2010.  “If you really believe the U.S. economy is really going to
improve, the company has removed a lot of costs from their
 capital structure  and their operations,” Farrell said.  MGM Resorts International, a rival of Caesars that also
operates mainly in the U.S., traded at about 19 times 12-month
Ebitda as of Feb. 3. In contrast, Wyomissing, Pennsylvania-based
 Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN)  had an enterprise value of about $5
billion, or 7 times trailing 12-month Ebitda, Bloomberg data
show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  