-- California Gay Marriage Case May Be Headed to Supreme Court
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-02-08T07:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/california-s-gay-marriage-ban-ruled-unconstitutional-by-u-s-appeals-court.html
The striking down of  California ’s
Proposition 8 voter initiative banning same-sex couples from
marrying sets up what may be a quick appeal to the  U.S. Supreme
Court (1000L) .  The U.S. Court of Appeals in San Francisco, in a 2-1
decision yesterday, ruled voters couldn’t deprive gay couples of
the right to marry. Proposition 8’s only purpose “was to lessen
the status and human dignity of gays and lesbians in
California,” which the U.S. Constitution doesn’t allow, the
court said.  Proponents of the measure, approved by 52 percent of voters
in 2008 after the California Supreme Court legalized gay
marriage, said they will continue their court battle to
reinstate the law and hope to win in the U.S.  Supreme Court .  “We are not surprised that this Hollywood-orchestrated
attack on marriage -- tried in San Francisco -- turned out this
way,” Brian Raum, an attorney for proponents and senior counsel
at the legal group  Alliance Defense Fund , said in an e-mail.
“But we are confident that the expressed will of the American
people in favor of marriage will be upheld at the Supreme
Court.”  The appeals court upheld the 2010 decision of a federal
court judge who said the measure violated constitutional equal
protection rights of same-sex couples. That ruling came in the
first federal trial over whether it’s legal to ban marriage by
gays and lesbians.  U.S. Constitution  The court said it looked only at the issues of this
particular case and not at whether same-sex couples may ever be
denied the right to marry under the U.S. Constitution.
California gay couples were allowed to wed under a May 2008
decision by the state’s highest court. That November,
Proposition 8, which amended the state constitution to define
marriage as being between one man and one woman, trumped the
state court’s ruling.  “California had already extended to committed same-sex
couples both the incidents of marriage and the official
designation of ‘marriage,’” Circuit Judge Stephen Reinhardt
wrote in the majority opinion. “Proposition 8’s only effect was
to take away that important and legally significant
designation.”  “This unique and strictly limited effect of Proposition 8
allows us to address the amendment’s constitutionality on narrow
grounds,” Reinhardt said. The appeals court yesterday kept in
place a 2010 order that put a stay, or a hold, on the trial
judge’s ruling that struck down the measure.  Carla Hass, another attorney for the Proposition 8
proponents, said her clients were deciding whether to petition
for a rehearing of the case before a larger panel of appeals
court judges. The appeals court could decide on its own to
rehear the case before a larger panel of judges, she said.  Supreme Court  The Proposition 8 proponents are also weighing whether to
petition the Supreme Court for review without delay, Hass said.
An immediate appeal to the high court would allow for a hearing
during the nine-month term that starts in October.  Two Harvard University law professors said that the Supreme
Court will probably be closely divided on the issue.  Professor Charles Fried predicted the Supreme Court would
find gays have a constitutional right to marry.  “I think it’s hard to avoid,” he said in a phone
interview, adding he could see five justices finding in favor of
it. Still, such a ruling may be so narrowly drawn that it
applies only to the California referendum at issue rather than
becoming the law of the land.  “The result is that opponents of gay marriage could keep
the issue alive forever,” said Fried, who served as U.S.
Solicitor General under Republican President  Ronald Reagan .  Anthony Kennedy      The fulcrum of that nine-judge court is likely to be
Justice  Anthony Kennedy , who is often seen as the panel’s swing
vote between its conservative and liberal blocs, said professor
Mark Tushnet, author of “Why the Constitution Matters,” a 2010
book addressing the political primacy of the document upon which
the U.S. government is based.  “Whatever he thinks, that’s what the law is going to be,”
Tushnet said in a phone interview. “He has been a reasonably
strong proponent of gay rights on the court. Whether this is a
bridge too far or a bridge too soon, I don’t think anybody can
tell.”  Of 26 cases from the  San Francisco  appeals court that were
decided by the Supreme Court in its 2010-2011 term, 19 were
reversed, according to the  SCOTUSblog  website. Seven were
upheld, two of them by a 4-4 tie on the court.  Reversal Rate  The San Francisco court’s 79 percent reversal rate, not
including the two tie votes, compares with a 72 percent reversal
rate for all cases considered during that term by the court.
Cases that the Supreme Court decided not to review aren’t
included.  U.S. District Judge Vaughn Walker in San Francisco struck
down Proposition 8 after a trial without a jury. Shortly before
retiring from the bench last year he revealed that he has been
in a long-term relationship with a man, prompting Proposition 8
proponents to ask the appeals court to throw out his ruling on
grounds that he should have disqualified himself from the case.  The appeals court yesterday ruled that Walker didn’t have
to recuse himself.  California Governor  Jerry Brown , who was attorney general
until last year, refused to defend Proposition 8 in the trial
court, as did former Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger . Brown and
the current attorney general, Kamala Harris, also declined to
defend it before the appeals court.  ‘Powerful Affirmation’  “The court has rendered a powerful affirmation of the
right of same-sex couples to marry,” Brown said in a statement
yesterday. “I applaud the wisdom and courage of this
decision.”  Brown and Harris are Democrats and Schwarzenegger is a
Republican.  California’s legal battle over same-sex marriage began in
2004 when then-San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom authorized
marriage licenses for gay couples. While the California Supreme
Court later ruled that Newsom exceeded his authority, that court
voted 4-3 in May 2008 to legalize gay marriage.  The California Supreme Court upheld Proposition 8 in 2009,
while ruling that 18,000 gay marriages performed before the ban
remained valid.  As of 2006, there were an estimated 109,000 gay couples in
California, more than any other state, according to U.S. Census
data compiled by the University of California,  Los Angeles .  Gay marriage is legal in  New York ,  Connecticut ,  Iowa ,
 Massachusetts ,  New Hampshire ,  Vermont  and Washington D.C.,
according to Human Rights Campaign.  The cases are Perry v. Brown, 11-17255 and 11-16577, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, San Francisco.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  