-- California Pension in $500 Million Infrastructure Deal With Australia Fund
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-07T05:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/california-pension-makes-500-million-infrastructure-deal-in-australia.html
The California State Teachers’
Retirement System, the second-largest U.S. public pension, said
it will invest $500 million in infrastructure projects such as
water lines and mobile-phone towers.  The pension fund will make the investments in two parts
over 18 months through Australia’s Industry Funds Management Pty
Ltd., said  Ricardo Duran , a spokesman for the California
retirement system. The investments will be placed primarily in
 North America  and Europe, Duran said.  The $144.8 billion pension fund is ramping up a new program
to invest in infrastructure as a way to hedge against inflation
and build stable, long-term revenue sources. The California
Public Employees’ Retirement System, the largest public pension
in the U.S. with $233 billion, has a similar program.  “Because we are so new at this, it’s in the core
infrastructure which are things like water transmission, power
lines, cell-phone towers,” Duran said in a telephone interview.  Phil Davey, a spokesman for Industry Funds Management, said
he wasn’t immediately able to respond to a Bloomberg News
request for comment.  The investment was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  IFM, with offices in  Melbourne , Sydney,  London  and  New York ,
had more than A$30.2 billion ($32.6 billion) in funds under
management worldwide as of Sept. 30, according to the company’s
website.  The fund management firm is owned by 32 Australian pension
funds and has infrastructure assets in Europe, North America and
Australia, including 50Hertz Transmission in Germany, Anglian
Water Co. in the U.K. and  Colonial Pipeline  in the U.S.,
according to its website.  It won a 35 million pound mandate from Leicestershire
County Council Pension Fund to manage infrastructure investments,
according to a statement from IFM on Jan. 26.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  