-- Canada December Building Permits Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-02-07T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/canada-december-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
December building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  Municipalities issued building permits worth $6.8
billion in December, up 11.1% from November. This is the
highest level since June 2007. The advance in December was
due primarily to an increase in multi-family dwellings in
Ontario and commercial buildings in Alberta.  Total value of permits  In the residential sector, the value of permits rose
16.1% to $4.5 billion. It was the second consecutive
monthly increase. Ontario accounted for much of the growth
recorded at the national level.  In the non-residential sector, the value of permits
grew 2.8% to $2.4 billion in December, following a 15.1%
decline in November. Alberta posted a large increase,
which more than offset declines in most provinces.  The total value of building permits was up in five
provinces, led by Ontario,  Alberta  and Quebec. British
Columbia had the largest decrease.  Residential sector: Significant increase for multi-family
dwellings in Ontario  Construction intentions for multi-family dwellings rose
28.9% to $1.9 billion. It was the second consecutive
monthly increase and the highest level recorded since
December 2005. The growth was due to major condominium and
apartment building projects initiated in Ontario.  Municipalities issued $2.6 billion worth of building
permits for single-family dwellings in December, 8.1% more
than in November. The increase was attributable to higher
construction intentions in six provinces, led by Quebec
and Alberta.  Nationally, municipalities approved the construction of
19,015 new dwellings in December, up 13.0% from November.
The increase was largely due to multi-family dwellings,
which rose 19.1% to 11,560 units. The number of single-
family dwellings rose 4.7% to 7,455 units.  Residential and non-residential sectors  Non-residential sector: Increase in the commercial
component  In the commercial component, municipalities issued
permits worth $1.6 billion in December, a 41.0% increase
following two monthly declines. The increase is largely
attributable to higher construction intentions for office
buildings and warehouse facilities in Alberta, as well as
hotels in Ontario.  The value of industrial building permits declined 24.2%
to $353 million in December. It was the second consecutive
monthly decrease. The decline was mostly due to lower
construction intentions in all provinces except  Quebec .
The largest decreases were in Alberta, Ontario and British
Columbia. These provinces posted lower construction
intentions in a wide range of industrial buildings,
including transportation-related buildings and
manufacturing plants. Quebec's advance was due to
manufacturing plants.  In the institutional component, the value of building
permits declined 42.2% to $402 million, down for a second
consecutive month after peaking at more than $1 billion in
October 2011. Institutional construction intentions
decreased in six provinces. The largest declines were in
construction intentions for educational institutions in
Ontario, health care facilities in Alberta, Saskatchewan
and Manitoba, and government buildings in British
Columbia.  Large increases in Ontario and Alberta  The value of building permits was up in five provinces.  Ontario's increase was mainly attributable to permits
for multi-family dwellings and hotels. In Alberta, permits
for office buildings and warehouses rose. In Quebec, the
increase was due to the value of building permits for
single-family dwellings and manufacturing plants. In  Nova
Scotia , the growth was attributable to an increase in
commercial buildings. In Newfoundland and Labrador, the
growth resulted from higher construction intentions for
single-family dwellings.  The largest declines were in British Columbia,
Saskatchewan and Manitoba. All three provinces posted
decreases in both residential and non-residential sectors.  Higher permit values in half of the census metropolitan
areas  The total value of permits was up in 17 of Canada's 34
census metropolitan areas.  Toronto had the largest increase, followed by Calgary.
Toronto's increase was mostly attributable to building
permits for multi-family dwellings. In Calgary, the
advance was largely due to construction intentions for
commercial buildings and single-family dwellings.  The largest declines were in Ottawa and  Vancouver . In
Ottawa, the decrease was due to the residential and non-
residential sectors, as both had posted advances in
November. Vancouver's decline was mainly attributable to a
decrease in the value of permits for multi-family
dwellings and institutional buildings, which had recorded
large increases in November.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by
removing the effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the
population are very small, and their levels of building
activity have little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in
this release excludes engineering projects (for example,
waterworks, sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census
metropolitan area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is
divided into two areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  