-- Canadian Currency Strengthens Amid Meetings on Second Bailout for Greece
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-07T22:24:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/canada-s-dollar-pares-decline-as-greek-leaders-to-meet-on-bailout-measures.html
Canada ’s dollar gained versus its
U.S. counterpart as meetings on an international rescue of
 Greece  stirred optimism  Europe  may contain its sovereign-debt
crisis, increasing investor appetite for risk.  The currency, called the loonie for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, fell earlier on concern Greece was
struggling to win its second bailout. The loonie erased losses
as the euro gained versus most major peers, U.S. stocks rose and
crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, climbed on bets an agreement
on the package will be reached.  Prospects of an agreement on Greece are “making people
fell all warm and fuzzy,” said  John Curran , a senior vice
president in Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an online currency
dealer. “People are over-exuberant, which is panning out into a
risk-on trade, and that is boosting the Canadian dollar.”  The Canadian currency appreciated 0.2 percent to 99.44
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time, after weakening
earlier as much as 0.4 percent. It advanced on Feb. 3 to 99.28
cents, the strongest level since Oct. 31. One Canadian dollar
buys $1.0056.  Implied volatility for one-month options on the Canadian
dollar versus the greenback fell almost to a nine-month low. It
touched 8.06 percent, after reaching 7.87 percent on Feb. 3, the
least since April 15. Implied volatility, which traders quote
and use to set option prices, signals the expected pace of
swings in the underlying currency. The measure has averaged
10.04 over the past year.  Bonds Fall  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing yields on benchmark
 10-year notes  up six basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to
2.03 percent. The yields touched 2.06 percent, the highest level
since Jan. 25. The price of the 3.25 percent securities due in
June 2021 dropped 57 cents to C$110.26.  Greece’s prime minister was to meet today with officials of
the European Commission,  European Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund , known as the troika, to put finishing touches on
an accord on budget and structural measures needed to free up a
second rescue package, a spokeswoman for his office said.  Papademos’s meeting with leaders of the three political
parties that back his government, also scheduled for today, was
postponed until tomorrow morning, the spokeswoman said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , in a speech in Berlin,
restated her determination to keep Greece in the 17-nation euro
region. Even so, she said there’s “no way around” Greece
carrying out reforms. Full disclosure of its economic situation
is required, she said.  The Canadian dollar fell against the euro for a second day,
weakening 0.8 percent to C$1.3188.  Crude Oil Climbs  Crude oil for March delivery gained 1.7 percent to $98.73 a
barrel in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.2
percent after falling earlier as much as 0.6 percent.  The loonie also erased losses as Canadian  building permits 
rose more than 10 times as much as economists forecast. The
value of permits issued in December rose 11.1 percent to C$6.85
billion ($6.85 billion), following a revised 2.6 percent decline
in November, Statistics Canada data showed. The gain beat all
nine economists’ forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey, whose
median forecast was for a 1 percent jump.  “The housing data is meaningful, but it is not the only
information that pushes the Canadian dollar around,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of
Canada  in Toronto.  Canada’s dollar gained 2.2 percent over the past three
months against nine developed-nation counterparts monitored by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The U.S. dollar
rose 0.6 percent, while the euro dropped 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in New York at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  