-- Carbon Capture Projects Imperiled by Worst-Case Scenario: Energy
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-07T11:58:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/carbon-capture-projects-imperiled-by-worst-case-scenario-energy.html
The cloud of carbon dioxide that
burst out of Lake Nyos in Cameroon and asphyxiated 1,700 people
haunts the plans of oil and power companies to bury their
 greenhouse gases  underground.  “It was shocking,” said Minoru Kusakabe, a Japanese
geochemist who makes regular trips to the site of the 1986
disaster near the border with  Nigeria . “The village was
completely devastated, and people were in their homes dying.”  While the source of the CO2 bubble was natural, originating
from volcanic magma deep below the lake, the devastation shows
how shifts in the Earth’s crust can trigger worst-case scenarios
for the  energy industry , just as an earthquake in Japan in March
triggered a tsunami that sent a nuclear plant into meltdown.  Dispute over who pays for such geological surprises is
threatening to derail efforts to combat global warming and put
out of reach the $25 billion governments have offered in grants
to facilities that would siphon away CO2 from industrial
polluters. Such projects are central to curtailing global
emissions and building new markets for companies from  Alstom SA (ALO) 
of France to General Electric Co.  Oil companies Exxon Mobil Corp. and  Chevron Corp.  and
utilities such as Nuon Energy NV are seeking to tap those funds
for carbon capture and storage plants. Insurance companies are
dragging their feet in offering coverage against catastrophic
accidents.  “No shareholders are going to agree for any publicly owned
company to expose the total company balance sheet to an
unlimited or unknown liability that long-term storage risk could
relate to,” John Scott, chief risk officer for global corporate
at insurer  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , said in an interview.  Absorbing Pollution  The emerging technology, made by contractors such as Alstom
SA, Fluor Corp. and Honeywell International Inc., is one of the
most promising to restrain  carbon emissions  from burning fossil
fuels, the  International Energy Agency  says. The United Nations
Intergovernmental Panel on  Climate Change  said there may be
 suitable sites  worldwide to hold 2 trillion tons of the waste
gas, or about 42 times last year’s global CO2 emissions.  After more than a decade on the political agenda, no  carbon
capture  plant is operating at a commercial scale. While smaller
facilities are demonstrating so-called CCS technology can work,
none is attached to a plant generating more than about 50
megawatts of electricity, which is less than 10 percent of the
capacity of the average U.S. nuclear power reactor.  Liability Obstacle  The biggest obstacles are ensuring a guaranteed return and
the murky situation of liability for accidents, which companies
are hoping to solve by persuading governments to assume most of
the risk.  Chevron, Exxon and Royal Dutch Shell Plc agreed to invest
in the $37 billion Gorgon natural gas venture that includes a
carbon capture plant only after  Australia ’s national and state
governments accepted long term liability for accidental CO2
discharges. That project’s CCS plant starts in 2015.  The gas, while harmless in small quantities such as in
human breath, disperses rapidly and is lethal if inhaled in high
concentrations, as Lake Nyos demonstrated.  “Even if the risks of leakage are very small, the possible
liabilities are unbounded,” said Keith Whiriskey, a CCS expert
at the Bellona research institute in  Norway . “Geologists are
very certain that the CO2 will stay down there and not leak, but
being geology, they cannot predict exactly how the CO2 will act
in the subsurface. We physically can’t see down there.”  CO2 for Oil  Several companies, such as Norway’s  Statoil ASA (STL) , have
pumped CO2 successfully underground into depleted oil wells.
Those wells aren’t required to meet more stringent regulations
on CO2 injection, under which the U.S. can require an assurance
that funds will be available to monitor the site for leaks
through the life of the project.  For power utilities that are under pressure to control
emissions, Japan’s atomic disaster is a reminder of the limits
of risk analysis.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. is in talks with banks to borrow
as much as 2 trillion yen ($26 billion) to stave off bankruptcy
as it compensates survivors of the Fukushima accident and
decommissions reactors, two people with knowledge of the talks
said in January. It may face 4.5 trillion yen in payments for
compensation by 2013 to those who lost livelihoods and homes.  Three CCS power plants are due to start working in 2014, in
 Texas ,  Mississippi  and the Canadian province of Saskatchewan.
Each is selling the CO2 to  oil companies  that will use it to
boost production.  Project Numbers  Three projects were scrapped last year, leaving about 72
large-scale CCS projects under development worldwide, according
to the  Global CCS Institute  in Canberra, Australia. At least 23
CCS projects to date have been considered and abandoned,
according to London-based Bloomberg New Energy Finance, a
research company that tracks industry investments.  Most U.S. projects plan to sell the CO2 to help pump oil,
meaning rules requiring long-term care for wells aren’t applied.
Developers injecting the gas solely for permanent storage must
monitor the site more rigorously and “assure the availability
of funds for the life of the project,” according to the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency. That includes care for the
deposit after injection stops and “emergency response.”  Under European Union law, developers flip liability for the
safety and security of sites to governments after at least 20
years from the final CO2 injections.  Dakota Gasification Co. captures about 3 million tons of
CO2 per year at the company’s Great Plains Synfuels Plant as it
processes fuels and sells it to energy companies to recover oil.  For carbon capture supporters, the Lake Nyos disaster was
caused by unique circumstances unlike those expected at any
capture and storage plant.  Why CCS Is Different  In Cameroon, CO2 from a magma plume likely seeped upward
through rock and combined with water in the lake, where it built
up at the bottom. When the lake could hold no more, the  carbon
suddenly  was released as a gas and erupted toward the surface in
a geyser, said Howard Herzog of the  Massachusetts  Institute of
Technology’s Energy Initiative.  At a CCS plant, the carbon gas will be compressed into a
liquid form, pumped downward into porous rock underneath a layer
of impermeable rock, known as cap rock. It will be monitored so
that injection can be halted if pressure builds up too much.
Over hundreds of years, the liquid carbon will chemically bind
to the rocks around it, scientists say.  “Putting CO2 into geological formations is very
different” than keeping gas in volcanic structures, said
Herzog, a research engineer for emissions-cutting technologies
based at the institute in Cambridge, Massachusetts. “We may get
drips, but not the violent degassing we saw at Lake Nyos.”  Rocks as Storage  In the U.S. there are places where volcanic rock has held
CO2 for about 65 million years, said Michael Stephenson, head of
energy at the  British Geological Survey  in Nottingham.  “It is difficult for CO2 to leak through that strata,”
Kusakabe said in an interview from his home in  Japan . “And
during storage it would react with the surrounding rocks to form
carbonate” that’s solid.  Even so, insurance companies refuse to offer long-term
policies, and public opposition to perceived dangers has cropped
up around a few projects.  Zurich and Swiss Re, two of the biggest reinsurance
companies, are interested in covering the operating phase of
plants, after which they insist that governments help cover the
liability for any massive leak that might occur during the
hundreds of years that storage sites may have to be guarded.  Insurers find it difficult to gauge the risk of CCS
projects and want a finite period to consider, said Cliff
Warman, head of environmental practice for  Europe , the  Middle
East  and  Africa  at the consulting firm Marsh.  1,000-Year Policy  “Is the insurance market able and willing to write a 100-
or 1,000-year policy for CO2 sequestration? The answer is no,”
Warman said. “It’s an almost uninsurable risk.”  Public opposition contributed to the demise of a project
proposed by Vattenfall AB in  Germany  in Jaenschwalde in December
as governments attempted to diffuse local concern in the
aftermath of meltdown in Japan.  Plants proposed by RWE AG and Nuon Energy in the
Netherlands were set back after the Dutch government ruled out
storage of CO2 under the land. RWE is now looking at storing the
gas offshore, RWE spokesman Jeroen Brouwers said.  Nuon has ambitions for CCS “under favorable market
circumstances and under clear government policy,” said Melanie
Poort, a spokeswoman for the unit of the utility Vattenfall.  Algerian Project  Oil company BP is part of the In Salah natural gas
production project in  Algeria  that has stored more than 3
million tons of CO2 since 2004 from a gas field it’s pumping. BP
officials declined to comment.  If industrial CO2 leaked into water supplies, it could
cause environmental damage, “and that’s $100 million right
there,” Rodney Taylor, managing director for the environmental
services group at Aon Corp., a Chicago-based insurance company.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  