-- Carlyle Group’s Olivier Sarkozy Sells House in Manhattan for $8.4 Million
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-02-07T16:54:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/carlyle-group-s-sarkozy-sells-four-story-manhattan-house-for-8-4-million.html
Olivier Sarkozy, managing director of
global financial services at Carlyle Group LP, sold his four-
story home on  Manhattan ’s Upper East Side for $8.4 million, 20
percent less than he initially sought.  The sale of the 8,075-square-foot (750-square-meter)
carriage house on East 75th Street near First Avenue was
completed on Jan. 20, according to city property records filed
yesterday. The home first went  on the market  in March with a
$10.5 million asking price, according to property-listing
website  StreetEasy.com .  “The building is set up as a beautiful residence to
accommodate a large family, but requires almost no construction
for use as commercial offices, showrooms, galleries or a hybrid
thereof,” according to the  listing  by Jared Seligman of New
York-based brokerage Prudential Douglas Elliman Real Estate.  Sarkozy, half-brother of French President  Nicolas Sarkozy ,
declined to comment on the sale. Seligman didn’t immediately
return telephone calls seeking comment today.  The buyer of the property was listed as Studio 407 LLC,
according to city records.  The house has six bedrooms, six bathrooms, five half
bathrooms, an outdoor terrace and a garden off the second-floor
kitchen, according to the listing.  Sarkozy bought the property in March 2005 for $6.5 million
using a mortgage of $1.1 million, according to property records.  Purchases of Manhattan luxury apartments, defined as the
top 10 percent of all sales by price, declined 13 percent in the
fourth quarter to 201 deals, according to a Jan. 4 report by  New
York  appraiser Miller Samuel Inc. and Prudential Douglas
Elliman. The median price of those transactions dropped 4.6
percent to $4.15 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at   dtaub@bloomberg.net  