-- Chef Hix Swaps Seasonal British Food for Funky World Cuisine
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-02-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/chef-hix-swaps-seasonal-british-food-for-funky-world-menus-london-dining.html
Mark Hix, author of “British
Regional Food,” creator of restaurants serving seasonal produce
from Colchester rocks to Shetland Isles halibut, is getting
tired of visiting restaurants serving seasonal British regional
food.  “It’s all getting so preachy,” he says.  Hix opened his sixth establishment last week and this time
he’s gone off piste. Hix Belgravia offers dishes from around the
world, so it’s goodbye beef flank and oyster pie, and hello
Vietnamese chicken broth, and pumpkin and gorgonzola cannelloni.  The dining room looks like the lounge of an airport hotel
from the 1970s, a decade that is finally acquiring a patina of
chic. The menu also has retro elements (lobster thermidor,
anyone?) and is catholic in its flamboyant embrace of diverse
cuisines when so many are Calvinist in their insistence on the
purity of concept and integrity of execution.  Hix is more like a disc jockey, sampling the Vietnamese
broth from his friend Hieu Trung Bui at Cay Tre or the crispy
baby squid from Alan Yau at Yauatcha. The squid is my favorite
starter: It comes with chili, garlic and almonds, with a lime on
the side. The balance of sweetness and acidity is just right
until you hit the red chili, which detonates in your mouth.  The ceviche with plantain, taro root & sweet potato crisps
is also good, though the seasoning was a bit timid the second
time I tried it. Ceviche is suddenly everywhere in new  London 
restaurants. The crisps are a colorful and unusual
accompaniment. I can also recommend the Red Sea prawn cocktail,
with big juicy prawns. Senorio ham with grilled Catalan tomato
also has real flavor -- and a price tag of 21 pounds ($33).  Belgravia Prices  Belgravia is an affluent and expensive area and Hix
reflects this in his prices: Most mains cost between 20 pounds
and 30 pounds, plus sides, and there’s caviar if you are just
feeling peckish at 60 pounds for a starter.  The pasta section is well worth visiting, particularly the
pici with duck ragu, which has a deep flavor and an interesting
texture thanks to the addition of some crispy duck skin. The
cannelloni, and the tagliolini with langoustines and chili are
other starters I enjoyed.  Among the mains, the red sea prawn and pumpkin curry with
basmati rice and toasted coconut is well seasoned yet mild and
fruity. The rack of Glencoe red deer with sweet-and-sour
cherries is another dish not to miss. There’s also a range of
steaks, while the decent burger (made with rump) comes with club
sauce -- ketchup and American mustard. There are also plenty of
British dishes if you don’t fancy pick ‘n’ mix world cuisine.  Champagne Jelly  Amedei milk chocolate fondue with marshmallows to share (15
pounds) is likely to become the most popular dessert, although I
always have a spot for Hix jellies, represented here by
Yorkshire rhubarb and Champagne with bergamot ripple ice cream.  The kitchen is headed by Kevin Gratton, who once worked for
Marco Pierre White before becoming head chef at Le Caprice.  The wine list is broad and tempting, with about 20 options
by the glass or carafe. Wines I have enjoyed include the Massaya
Classic Red, Bekaa Valley, Lebanon 2008 (37.50 pounds a bottle);
Petit Chablis, Domaine du Colombier 2010 (40 pounds); and
Marsanne Qupee, Santa Ynez Valley, California 2010 (53.75
pounds).  Upstairs, there’s a Mark’s Bar and I suspect Hix Belgravia
will become a destination for Hix’s friends, including the
artists whose works are on the walls. Nick Strangeway (ex-
Hawksmoor and Hix) mixes the cocktails. Hix owns the restaurant,
inside the Hotel Belgraves, rather than just being a consultant.  Topsy Turvy  As usual in the early days of Hix establishments -- the
restaurant opened on Feb. 1 -- the service is topsy turvy.
That’s fine if you are friendly with Hix or just in a relaxed
mood, but might be infuriating if you were in a hurry or else
looking at the prices and wondering what you were paying for.  Hix has become one of the most creative and influential
restaurateurs in London. A couple of years from now, there may
be a fashion for world cuisine. You have to accept that
individual dishes may lose some of their distinction in a
multicultural restaurant environment. But I enjoy the quirkiness
of Hix Belgravia and I can’t wait to go back.  The Bloomberg Questions  Cost? You might just drop in for a bowl of pasta. If you
are out for a good time, 75 pounds a person is easily achieved.  Sound level? In these early days, it’s about 75 decibels.  Inside tip? Table two is good for people spotting.  Special feature? Contemporary art on the walls.  Will I be back? Yes.  Date place? Yes.  Rating? ***.  Hix Belgravia is at Hotel Belgraves, Pont Street, London,
SW1X 9EJ. Tel. +44-20-3189-4850.  Sound-Level Chart (in decibels): 65-70: Office noise. 70-
75: Starbucks. 75-80: London street. 80-85: Alarm clock at
closest range. 85-90: Passing bus. 85-95: Tube train.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 