-- Chief Executives in U.S. More Confident on Economy, Survey Shows
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/chief-executives-in-u-s-more-confident-on-economy-survey-shows.html
Confidence among U.S. chief executive
officers rose in the fourth quarter to the highest level in
almost a year as their economic outlook and hiring plans
improved, a private survey showed.  The Young Presidents’ Organization’s  index  of sentiment
climbed to 62.2 from 57.7 in the prior three months, according
to the Dallas-based group. Readings greater than 50 show the
outlook was more positive than negative in the survey, which
started in July 2009. The employment index rose to 59.8, the
highest since records began, from 58.3 in the previous quarter.  Fifty-one percent of the executives surveyed said the
economy would improve in the next six months, up from 30 percent
in the prior period. Recent government data showed the world’s
largest economy expanded 2.8 percent in the final three months
of 2011, the fastest pace in more than a year, and employers
added 243,000 workers in January, the most in nine months.  The survey results are “consistent with recent economic
reports indicating that the  U.S. economy  has finally begun to
crank out a respectable number of new jobs,” Stephen Slifer,
chief economist at NumberNomics and YPO Global Pulse economic
adviser, said in a statement.  Executives in the latest survey were also more optimistic
about demand. The group’s index of sales in the coming 12 months
increased to 67.8 from 64.8.  The measure of  capital spending  increased to 60.5 in the
fourth quarter, from 58.2 in the prior period.  Increased Production  “We have invested in Caterpillar factories in the United
States and around the world to increase production,”  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at Caterpillar Inc., said
on a Jan. 26 conference call with analysts. Even with planned
increases in  capital expenditures  this year, “we’re still very
tight on many products and are currently quoting extended
delivery times for them,” he said.  The gain in the U.S. helped boost the YPO’s Global
Confidence Index, which climbed to 61.2 in the final three
months of 2011 from 58 in the third quarter. Sentiment failed to
rise in the Middle East/North Africa,  Asia  and in non-European
Union nations of  Europe .  The nonprofit service organization’s electronic survey was
based on responses from 1,166 American chief executives and was
conducted during the first two weeks of January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  