-- Chile Peso Reverses Loss as Euro Optimism Blunts Copper Decline
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-02-07T14:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/chile-peso-reverses-loss-as-euro-optimism-blunts-copper-decline.html
Chile’s peso was little changed,
recovering from an earlier loss, as optimism that Greek policy
makers will agree on budget cuts needed to secure bailout funds
offset prospects of slowing Chinese demand for copper.  The peso rose less than 0.1 percent to 479.78 per  U.S.
dollar  as of 11:03 a.m. in Santiago. The currency earlier
weakened as much as 0.5 percent to 482.35.  Copper slumped as much as 1.8 percent in  New York  after
 China , the biggest buyer of the metal  from Chile , said
industrial output is likely to slow this quarter. The euro
rallied against the dollar after a Greek official said
authorities are working on the final draft of the document
listing the budget and structural measures required to receive
international funding.  “Copper’s falling because of the Chinese trade data,”
said Cristian Donoso, a trader at Banchile Corredores de Bolsa
SA in Santiago. “The forecasts are very bad and that’s hitting
commodities. Meanwhile the rest of the market is waiting for
 Greece . Everything’s in a holding pattern.”  China is due to publish trade data this week and the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey is that  Chinese
imports  declined in January for the first time in more than two
years  The Greek official, who declined to be named, said the
document would be discussed by political party leaders
supporting the government of interim Prime Minister  Lucas
Papademos  at a meeting later in the day. The official spoke to
reporters in  Athens .  Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos plans to convene the
nation’s political leaders to seek consensus on the cuts
required for a bailout as European leaders pressed for answers.  Trade data published today by the central bank showed  Chile 
exported $7.6 billion in January, the second-highest monthly
total in the country’s history, with copper making up 55
percent. A pound of copper for March delivery slid as much as
1.8 percent on the Comex in New York to $3.794.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  