-- China Ming Yang to Supply Turbines for Bulgarian Wind Projects
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-07T16:56:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/china-ming-yang-to-supply-turbines-for-bulgarian-wind-projects.html
China Ming Yang Wind Power Group
Ltd ., a Guangdong-based wind turbine manufacturer, agreed to
supply machines on 125 megawatts of projects in Bulgaria.  Ming Yang Wind Power (International) Co. Ltd., a unit of
the company, signed contracts to provide turbines and build the
two parks for  W. Power Ltd ., a Bulgarian wind energy developer,
China Ming Yang said today in a statement.  “This represents a significant milestone of Ming Yang’s
overseas market development, marking an important step in
extending our footprint in mainstream European markets,” Chief
Executive Officer Zhang Chuanwei said in the statement.  Chinese companies including Xinjiang Goldwind Science
Technology & Co., China’s second-largest wind-turbine maker, are
studying expansion abroad to overcome a slowing home market
after a tighter government approval process for new projects
intensified competition.  New installed turbines in  China  about doubled each year
from 2005 to 2010 when 18.9 gigawatts of new machines were
added. That pace stalled last year as China added 18 gigawatts,
according to the Global Wind Energy Council.  China Ming Yang will also help finance the project,
according to Jonathan Mann, chief executive officer of Sofia-
based W. Power, which also is talking to local banks about
loans. He declined to give further details. He was speaking from
Bucharest in  Romania  by phone.  ‘New Growth’  “As the industry moves to reduce reliance on the
traditional wind markets of Western Europe, the U.S. and China,
new growth regions are emerging across the globe, including
Eastern Europe,” Daniel Shurey, a wind energy policy analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said by e-mail.  China Ming Yang Wind agreed the engineering, procurement
and construction contracts with W. Power and another company
called A1 Development in December, according to the statement.
The first three turbines were shipped on Feb. 6 to the 4.5-
megawatt pilot project in Somovit, which will be commissioned in
July.  The 120-megawatt Milkovitsa project in Pleven in the north
of  Bulgaria  is planned to start later this year. The entire 125-
megawatt project will use China Ming Yang Wind turbines, Mann
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  