-- China Central Bank Pledges Housing Market Support as Curbs Bite: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-08T05:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/china-central-bank-to-aid-home-buyers-to-balance-crackdown-on-speculators.html
China ’s central bank pledged support
for first-home buyers as a crackdown on real-estate speculation
threatens to trigger a property slump in the world’s second-
biggest economy.  Officials will increase support for construction of
affordable housing and ensure that “loan demand from first-home
families” is met, the People’s Bank of China said on its
website yesterday evening.  Policy makers aim to limit public discontent by making
housing more affordable, with Vice Premier  Li Keqiang , a
possible contender to be the next premier, describing the
distribution of low-cost homes as a key test of government
credibility. At the same time, the ruling Communist Party aims
to avoid the economic “hard landing” that  Fitch Ratings  said
yesterday is a key global risk.  “The government doesn’t want to see home transactions
slide too fast -- that may hurt economic growth,” said Lu Ting,
a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America Corp.  Elsewhere in  Asia ,  Japan ’s current-account surplus slid to
a 15-year low in 2011 as increased energy demands after the
March earthquake bolstered imports amid a global slowdown that
has curbed demand for the nation’s goods, a report showed. The
excess shrank 44 percent from a year earlier to 9.63 trillion
yen ($125 billion), the  Finance Ministry  said in  Tokyo  today.  Greek Rescue Plan  Asian stocks rose, with the MSCI Asia Pacific Index
advancing 0.7 percent as of 1:54 p.m. in Tokyo, ahead of more
efforts by Greek leaders to seal a rescue plan with creditors to
limit the euro region’s debt crisis.  In  Europe , a report today may show that German exports fell
1 percent in December from a month earlier, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Spain ’s
industrial production dropped for a fourth month in December on
a year-on-year basis, another report may show.  A U.S. report on mortgage applications may provide more
evidence on the state of the nation’s housing market.  In China, the government aims to both reduce the risk of
bubbles in the real-estate market and limit discontent among the
poor. The Communist Party says it plans to add 36 million units
of affordable or social housing by 2015 as it seeks to address a
widening income gap and public anger over high property prices.  Vice Premier Li said the government’s ability to distribute
affordable housing fairly will be an important test of its
credibility, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday.
Li is a possible successor to Wen Jiabao as premier, according
to analysts including Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct professor of
Chinese history at the Chinese University of  Hong Kong .  Falling Prices  The central bank statement added to previous assurances for
first-home buyers, including Housing Minister  Jiang Weixin 
saying in December that they would get priority for loans.  Home prices in 52 of 70 major cities declined in December
from November, according to government data. Contract sales, or
sales booked before apartments are completed, dropped 30 percent
in December at  China Vanke Co. (000002) , as the country’s biggest
developer by market value offered fewer homes as of November.  China’s economy grew 8.9 percent in the fourth quarter from
a year earlier, the slowest pace since the first half of 2009.
Home prices have declined in cities from Beijing to Wenzhou.  Jim O’Neill, the economist who coined the term BRIC for
developing nations Brazil, Russia,  India  and China, said Jan. 17
that Chinese officials had acted to avoid the “wild housing
bubbles” that many western nations had experienced. O’Neill,
chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said he doesn’t
expect a “hard landing” for China.  Loan Policies  The central bank said yesterday that it will continue to
implement “differentiated” housing-loan policies. Down-payment
ratios and mortgage rates vary for first-time and multiple-home
buyers and local authorities have a range of restrictions,
including based on whether buyers are local residents.  “The  PBOC (PBCZ)  is opening a small window for property and is
starting selective easing on the sector,” said Yao Wei, a Hong
Kong-based economist at Societe Generale SA. “Real estate
activities have cooled a lot in recent months,” threatening to
hurt economic growth, she said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  