-- China’s Stocks Decline Most in Eight Weeks on Concern Slowdown Will Worsen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-07T07:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/china-s-stocks-decline-from-2-month-high-on-concern-slowdown-will-worsen.html
China’s stocks  fell, driving the
benchmark index to its biggest loss in three weeks, on concern a
slowdown in the economy is hurting earnings as  Europe ’s debt
crisis curbs exports to the nation’s biggest market.  Air China Ltd., the nation’s biggest international carrier,
and China Shipbuilding Industry Co, slid more than 3 percent
after the Chinese government said industrial production is
likely to slow this quarter. GF Securities Co. and Haitong
Securities Co. lost at least 3 percent after posting weaker
earnings. Jiangxi Copper Co. slumped 1.6 percent as metal prices
fell on concerns about receding demand from China.  “The market is pessimistic about China’s growth,” said
 Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief investment officer at Jingxi
Investment Management Co., which manages about $120 million.
“The European debt issue threatens the country’s exports.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index  fell 39.2 points, or 1.7
percent, to 2,291.90 at the close, the biggest loss since Jan.
16. The measure trades at 9.4 times estimated earnings, near the
record low of 8.9 times reached on Jan. 6, according to weekly
data compiled by Bloomberg. The  CSI 300 Index  declined 1.9
percent to 2,457.95. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the
measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies,
retreated 2.1 percent yesterday in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite has rebounded 4.2 percent this year,
after plunging 33 percent in the previous two years, on
speculation the central bank will further cut lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios to spur lending to small companies. The
People’s Bank of China announced on Nov. 30 a cut in reserve
ratios, the first reduction since 2008. It raised  interest rates 
three times and lifted reserve ratios six times last year to
cool inflation that accelerated to its fastest pace in three
years in July.  Industrial Output  A gauge of industrial companies in the CSI 300 slumped 2
percent, the most since Jan. 13. Air China declined 4.1 percent
to 6.50 yuan.  China  Shipbuilding slumped 3.3 percent to 5.36
yuan.  Cosco Shipping Co. retreated 2 percent to 4.34 yuan.
 FAW Car Co. , which makes passenger cars in China with Volkswagen
AG, lost 3 percent to 8.75 yuan.  China’s industrial output growth is likely to slow this
quarter as the world economy cools and Europe’s debt crisis
worsens, the Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology 
said. Output grew 13.9 percent in 2011 from the previous year,
according to the statistics bureau. The government is targeting
an 11 percent increase this year.  “The global economy is slowing down, Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis is deepening and the downside risks to the world
economy are rising with international demand still slack and
global commodities and financial markets continuing to be
volatile,” the ministry said in a statement in Beijing today.  IMF Warning  Concerns about the outlook for  China’s economy  have
increased after the  International Monetary Fund  warned yesterday
the expansion would be cut almost in half should Europe’s debt
crisis worsen. China’s growth rate may drop as much as 4
percentage points from the Washington-based lender’s current
projection, which is for 8.25 percent this year, the IMF said.  Europe is China’s biggest export market with 18 percent of
the nation’s overseas shipments destined for the region,
according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, fell
1.6 percent to 24.80 yuan. Tongling Nonferrous Metals Group Co.,
the second largest, lost 1.6 percent to 19.75 yuan. Copper
futures dropped as much as 0.8 percent to $8,430 a metric ton on
the London Metal Exchange.  ‘Hard Landing’ Risk  A “hard landing” for China is a key risk for the global
economy,  Andrew Colquhoun , Hong Kong-based head of Asia-Pacific
ratings for  Fitch Ratings , said in an e-mail. His definition was
growth “significantly lower” than the rating company’s “base
case” of an 8.2 percent expansion in 2012.  Chinese exports may drop 1.4 percent in January from year-
ago levels, compared with a 13.4 percent advance the previous
month, according to economists’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The trade data is scheduled for Feb. 10. Consumer prices rose 4
percent in January, compared with a 4.1 percent gain in
December, estimates show. The inflation data is due to be
released on Feb. 9.  European leaders stepped up pressure on Greek politicians
to meet the conditions of a 130 billion euro ($171 billion)
bailout, saying time was running out.  Earnings Slump  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  met German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  as Greek interim Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
planned to confer with the so-called troika of international
lenders. A gathering of  Greece ’s political leaders was delayed
by a day until today as they struggled for a unified response.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. , the listed unit of China’s
second-biggest steelmaker, lost 1.8 percent to 4.99 yuan.
Chinese steelmakers’ earnings may have decreased more than 50
percent in 2011 as companies took charges on inventory
impairment, according to Citic Securities Co.  GF Securities tumbled 5.2 percent to 23.30 yuan after the
brokerage said it had a net loss of 89.9 million yuan in
January. Haitong Securities retreated 2.8 percent to 8.21 yuan.
Profit dropped 53 percent from a year earlier last month, the
company said in a statement.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Richard Frost, Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  