-- China Credit Cards, Danish Loans, Mortgage Deal: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-07T13:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/china-credit-cards-danish-bad-loans-accounts-smith-nephews-compliance.html
China ’s decision to allow  Citigroup
Inc.  to issue credit cards in its own name may signal a step
toward the government in Beijing opening its banking industry.  New York-based Citigroup is the second foreign bank, and
the first Western one, to be permitted to issue credit cards in
China.  The announcement Feb. 5 came as the  World Trade
Organization , acting on a U.S. complaint, probes the legality of
China’s refusal to let foreign companies issue their own bank
cards denominated in its currency or to permit companies such as
 Visa Inc .,  American Express Co. ,  MasterCard Inc .,  Discover
Financial Services  and  First Data Corp.  to process card
transactions in China.  China requires foreign banks to “co-brand” with Chinese
operators to issue credit cards and execute payments through
 China UnionPay Data Co.  The U.S. says the rules contravene a
pledge the world’s most populous nation made when it joined the
Geneva-based WTO in 2001 to open its debit- and credit-card
markets to foreign processors by the end of 2006.  Bank of East Asia Ltd. , Hong Kong’s third-largest lender,
was the first non-mainland issuer of credit cards. More banks
will probably follow, said Fredrik Erixon, director of the
Brussels-based  European Centre for International Political
Economy .  Shannon Bell , a spokeswoman for New York-based Citigroup,
declined to comment on whether conditions were attached to the
permission. Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman at the U.S. Trade
Representative’s Office in Washington, didn’t respond to e-mails
asking for comment.  Compliance Policy  Danish FSA Proposes Tougher Rules for Writedowns on Bank Loans  Denmark’s financial regulator is proposing banks follow
stricter rules on how they report bad loans in their accounts.  “The central part of the proposal is that loans to
troubled property clients in the future need to be reduced to
match the value of the property in question,” the Copenhagen-
based  Financial Supervisory Authority  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  Most of  Denmark ’s banks already write down their loans in
compliance with the new proposal while a “smaller group” will
need to tighten impairment standards, the FSA said.  The proposal is designed to “boost credibility” around
writedowns and “thereby increase confidence in banks’
accounts,” FSA Director General Ulrik Noedgaard said in the
statement.  Biggest Ships Have ‘Robust’ Regulation, Are Safe, UN’s IMO Says  The world’s largest ships are robustly regulated and safe
to sail even as their dimensions expand, according to the United
Nations agency that sets global maritime rules.  Regulators haven’t let vessels, especially  cruise ships ,
get so large that they present a hazard, according to Koji
Sekimizu, secretary-general of the London-based  International
Maritime Organization . The growing size of vessels is under
scrutiny after the Costa Concordia cruise ship grounded last
month, killing at least 17 people.  The IMO’s remit includes ensuring the safety of and
preventing pollution from a global fleet that it says exceeds
100,000 vessels and carries 90 percent of global trade. It’s up
to the commercial market to decide the most appropriate size for
vessels and the IMO won’t impose restrictions, Sekimizu said.  Sekimizu,  director  of the IMO’s safety division from 2004
until his appointment as secretary-general in December, said the
agency spent a decade developing rules for the largest cruise
ships that were implemented in 2010.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  California, N.Y. Are Among Fewer Than 10 Mortgage Deal Holdouts  California and  New York ’s attorneys general haven’t signed
on to a proposed settlement with five banks over foreclosure
practices that has won the support of more than 40 states.  California’s Kamala Harris and New York’s  Eric
Schneiderman , who have pushed for changes to the deal, are among
those who hadn’t joined the agreement as of yesterday’s deadline
for states to decide. More than 40 states signed on to the
accord, according to Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is
helping to lead talks with the banks.  All 50 states announced almost 16 months ago they were
investigating bank foreclosure practices following disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes. Officials
from a group of state attorneys general offices and federal
agencies, including the  Justice Department , have since
negotiated terms of a proposed settlement with the five banks,
the nation’s largest mortgage servicers, that is said to be
worth as much as $25 billion.  Miller didn’t say which states have signed on.  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Wells Fargo
& Co . made a last-minute demand that New York drop claims filed
against them Feb. 3 as a condition of the settlement, a person
familiar with the matter said.  The banks have asked that many of the claims in the
complaint be thrown out, the person said. The other two banks
involved in the nationwide settlement proposal,  Ally Financial
Inc . and  Citigroup Inc ., weren’t named in the complaint.  The push by the three banks raised a new obstacle in
getting Schneiderman’s support for the deal, said the person.
Dani Lever, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, declined to comment
on the demand by the banks over the MERS lawsuit.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup; Tom
Goyda of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo;  Tom Kelly , a spokesman
at New York-based JPMorgan; and Gina Proia of Detroit-based Ally
Financial declined to comment on the settlement condition.  “We’re interested in finding a path forward with a
comprehensive settlement that benefits homeowners and
communities,” said  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declining to comment further.  The proposed settlement already requires Massachusetts,
Nevada and Arizona, which have sued banks involved in the talks,
to settle their claims, a person familiar with them said.  For more, click here.  Express Scripts-Medco Deal Opposed by Food Store Trade Group  The Food Marketing Institute, which represents 26,000 food
stores and 14,000 pharmacies, urged a U.S. antitrust regulator
to attempt to block  Express Scripts Inc. ’s bid to buy  Medco
Health Solutions Inc.   Officials at the trade group said in a Feb. 2 letter to
Federal Trade Commission Chairman Jon Leibowitz that the deal,
which would create the biggest U.S. firm for managing employees’
prescription-drug benefits, would “harm supermarket pharmacies
by significantly reducing reimbursement rates.”  U.S. Senator  Herb Kohl , chairman of the Senate’s antitrust
subcommittee, also wrote Leibowitz on Feb. 2, saying the
acquisition would “reduce choices” for large employers seeking
so-called pharmacy benefit managers.  Cecelia Prewett, an FTC spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the status of the Express Scripts-Medco investigation, which
began after the companies announced the deal in July.  “We remain confident that the merger will close in the
first half of this year,”  Brian Henry , an Express Scripts
spokesman, said yesterday. The company is cooperating with the
FTC as it reviews the deal, he said.  Smith & Nephew Settles Bribe Cases With U.S. for $22 Million  Smith & Nephew Plc , Europe’s biggest maker of artificial
hips and knees, agreed to pay $22.2 million to settle
allegations by the U.S. Justice Department and Securities and
Exchange Commission that it engaged in a scheme to pay bribes in
Greece.  Smith & Nephew admitted in filings yesterday in federal
court in  Washington  that two of its units were involved in a
scheme for more than a decade to make “illicit payments” to
doctors employed by government hospitals or agencies in Greece
in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The London-based company, which entered into a deferred
prosecution agreement with the U.S., agreed to pay a $16.8
million fine to settle the criminal allegations and another $5.4
million to settle a civil suit filed by the SEC.  Had Smith & Nephew been convicted of the allegations the
company could have been excluded from participating in U.S.
health-care programs, according to prosecutors.  In a criminal information filed in the U.S. District Court
in Washington, the Justice Department charged Smith & Nephew’s
U.S. and German units with one count of conspiracy, one count of
violating the FCPA and one count of aiding and abetting.  Prosecutors said they’ll seek to have the charges dismissed
after three years as long as Smith & Nephew abides by its
agreement with the Justice Department. The agreement requires
the company to hire a corporate monitor and cooperate with any
bribe probes.  Olivier Bohuon, Smith & Nephew’s chief executive officer,
said in a statement that the company has a “world-class
compliance program” which has been enhanced since the
investigation began in 2007 and these “legacy issues” do not
reflect the company today.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Smith & Nephew Plc, 12-00187, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  For more, click here.  Bats Global Says SEC Approves Its Market-Maker Incentive Program  Bats Global Markets Inc.  said U.S. regulators approved its
market-maker incentive system known as the competitive liquidity
provider program, according to a statement.  The BATS competitive liquidity program was designed for
BATS’ new U.S. primary listings, the company said. It is a
rewards-based program designed to give market-makers an
incentive “to make tighter quoted spreads with increased
liquidity for each listing on BATS,” according to the
statement.  The competitive liquidity program “particularly benefits
small and mid-cap companies, which can be ‘‘challenged by a lack
of liquidity in their stock,’’ making it difficult to attract
larger investors.  ICE, EEX Compete to Supply 10 Billion Euro Carbon Platforms  ICE  Futures Europe, the biggest exchange for greenhouse-gas
trading, and European Energy Exchange AG in Germany will compete
to provide platforms selling carbon allowances to airlines and
other emitters.  The  European Commission , the Brussels-based regulator of
the world’s biggest carbon market by traded volume, said Jan. 11
it plans to open a tender for a temporary auction platform by
this month, keeping the region on track to start early sales of
allowances for the 2013 phase of the system in the second half
of this year.  Germany, the U.K. and Poland are also setting up systems as
the European Union seeks to sell most allowances starting next
year instead of giving them away for free, as it has since 2005.
The exchanges may sell more than half of the 2.3 billion metric
tons of allowances next year, valued at about 10 billion euros
($13 billion) at benchmark prices.  ICE has applied with Britain’s Financial Services Authority
for status as a recognized auction platform, ICE Futures Europe
President David Peniket said Feb. 3 in an interview in  London .
ICE would also review tender documents from Germany and Poland
before making a decision on those opportunities, he said.  The exchange is a unit of  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  in
Atlanta, the second-largest U.S. futures market.  ‘‘EEX will submit bids for all tender processes,” Manuel
Moeller, a spokesman for the Leipzig, Germany exchange, said
yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions. EEX already
handles auctions for Germany, Lithuania and the Netherlands.  Other European exchanges are expected to bid. While 24 of
the EU’s 27 nations agreed to have a common auctioning platform,
Germany, the U.K. and Poland opted to develop national systems.
The temporary common platform will remain in place until a
permanent one becomes operational.  For more, click here.  Courts  Contorinis Must Pay $8.3 Million in SEC Lawsuit, Judge Rules  Joseph Contorinis, an ex- Jefferies Paragon Fund  money
manager, must pay $8.3 million in a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission insider-trading suit, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan in New York granted
the SEC summary judgment, or a ruling before trial, in a Feb. 3
order, citing the facts proved at an earlier criminal trial.  Contorinis was accused of illegally trading on inside tips
about bids for  Albertsons Inc.  supplied by Nicos Stephanou, an
investment banker who was the government’s chief witness in the
trial. Contorinis was convicted of securities fraud and
conspiracy in a scheme that federal authorities said netted more
than $7 million in illegal profits. He is serving a six-year
prison term.  Stephanou, a longtime friend of the defendant employed as
an investment banker at UBS AG, testified he passed him
nonpublic information regarding efforts by Cerberus Capital
Management LP, to acquire Albertsons, which was then the second-
biggest U.S. grocer.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stephanou, 09-cv-011042, and the criminal case is U.S. v.
Contorinis, 09-cr-01083, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  BofA Investors Win Class-Action Status in Suit Over Merrill Deal  Bank of America Corp.  investors won permission to proceed
as a class action in their lawsuit claiming the company misled
shareholders about the acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan ruled
yesterday that the claims in the case may go forward on behalf
of all investors who held Bank of America common stock and call
options from Sept. 18, 2008, to Jan. 21, 2009. Castel also
certified a class of investors who held common stock on Oct. 10,
2008, and were entitled to vote on the Merrill acquisition.  “Given the potential class size and the likelihood that
individual recovery for some class members may be relatively
modest, class certification is appropriate,” Castel wrote.  The suit, filed in 2009, claims Bank of America failed to
disclose information about bonuses to Merrill employees and
about the firm’s financial losses in the fourth quarter of 2008.
The decision to grant class status allows investors to pool
resources and gives their lawyers more leverage to push for a
settlement with the bank.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the ruling.  In July, Castel dismissed claims against  Kenneth Lewis , the
bank’s former chief executive officer.  The case is In re  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Securities,
Derivative and ERISA Litigation, 09-mdl-2058, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Callow Says Greece Remains ‘Very Dependent’ on Europe  Julian Callow , head of international economics at Barclays
Capital, talked about the prospects for a solution to the Greek
debt crisis.  Callow spoke with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.”  For the video, click here, and for more, click here.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 