-- China Needs to Change Mideast Foreign Policy: James M. Dorsey
-- B y   J a m e s   M .   D o r s e y
-- 2012-02-07T00:10:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/china-needs-to-change-mideast-foreign-policy-commentary-by-james-dorsey.html
China ’s decision to veto a
condemnation of Syria’s regime at the  United Nations Security
Council  is just the latest signal that illustrates the need for
a fundamental change in Chinese foreign policy.  The question is no longer whether officials in Beijing will
abandon the principle of non-interference in other countries’
affairs to protect their expanding interests around the globe.
The question is when.  China joined  Russia  in vetoing last weekend’s resolution
partly for fear that backing the UN’s rebuke of a government’s
brutal suppression of its people may come back to haunt China
itself, given its treatment of Tibetans and of Uighur Muslims in
the Xinjiang autonomous region.  Yet China’s economic growth and associated need to secure
resources increasingly have been at odds with this long-standing
policy of being aloof. That’s especially true in the resource-
rich region that stretches from the Atlantic coast of Africa to
Central Asia and the subcontinent, much of which is now in
revolt.  Over the past year, a series of incidents in the region
have tested China’s non-interference policy, but without serious
damage to the country’s image. With China’s veto of the UN
resolution on  Syria , Chinese determination to cling to a
principle rooted in 19th-century diplomacy seems set to
backfire.  Painted Into Corner  Rather than portray China as a global power that seeks good
relations with all and -- unlike the U.S. -- doesn’t meddle in
other countries’ affairs, last weekend’s veto of a relatively
toothless condemnation of the regime in Damascus has painted
China into a corner. The nation now appears to support an
international pariah that brutally suppresses its people, a
stance that risks roiling ties with some of China’s most
important energy suppliers in the  Arab League , which sponsored
the defeated UN resolution.  In Libya, China initially avoided its policy dilemma.
There, the Chinese abstained from voting on a UN resolution that
effectively authorized international military intervention in
 Libya  on humanitarian grounds. Chinese diplomats then went a
step further. They supported a Security Council resolution that
imposed an arms embargo and other sanctions on the regime of
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi , and endorsed referral of the
regime’s crackdown to the  International Criminal Court  in the
Hague.  China cultivated relations with both Qaddafi’s embattled
regime and the Benghazi-based rebels. Yet that evenhanded
approach didn’t prevent the rebels from threatening a commercial
boycott, particularly after they found documents purporting to
show that Chinese defense companies had discussed the supply of
arms with Qaddafi operatives. A Chinese Ministry of Commerce
delegation visited Libya this week in a bid to recover at least
some of the losses that China, Libya’s biggest foreign
contractor, suffered with the evacuation last year of 35,000
workers who were servicing $18.8 billion worth of contracts.  The Arab revolt is certain to force not only a revision of
China’s policy of non-interference but also of the employment
practices of Chinese companies. With new and long-standing
governments in the region desperate to reduce unemployment -- a
key driver of the revolts -- authorities in Libya and elsewhere
are likely to demand that Chinese construction companies employ
local, rather than imported, labor.  Social Media Criticism  Moreover, Chinese authorities have twice in recent days
come under criticism in the country’s social media for the
government’s inability to protect workers abroad after 29
Chinese nationals were kidnapped by rebels in  Sudan ’s volatile
South Kordofan province, and an additional 25 were abducted by
restive Bedouin tribesmen in  Egypt ’s Sinai Desert. The critics
charged that as a superpower, China needed to project its
economic, as well as its military, muscle to stand up for those
who put their lives at risk for the national good -- much like
the U.S. sent Navy Seals to rescue two hostages in Somalia.  Censors were quick to remove the critical messages from
social media because they touched a raw nerve. A policy of
winning friends economically rather than make enemies by flexing
military muscle is increasingly inconsistent with China’s
dislike of appearing weak and vulnerable. National pride was at
stake. The dilemma sparked public debate, with official media
saying China needs time to build the necessary military
capability to intervene when its nationals are in jeopardy,
while others argue that China’s inaction may encourage further
attacks.  The need for a revised approach to the  Middle East  and
North  Africa , as well as countries such as  Pakistan  and
 Afghanistan , will become increasingly clear as China boosts its
investment in Central and South Asian nations before the
scheduled 2014 withdrawal of U.S. forces from Afghanistan, where
China has secured oil and copper rights.  Reports that China is considering establishing military
bases in Pakistan’s insurgency-plagued northwestern tribal areas
near the border with Afghanistan, and a naval base in the
Balochistan port city of Gwadar, could create further pressure
for change. China holds the Pakistan-based  East Turkestan
Islamic Movement  responsible for attacks last year in Xinjiang’s
city of Kashgar. Defeating the movement is key to Chinese plans
to keep regional trade and energy flowing, and the bases in
Pakistan may tempt China to take on a role as local policeman.  If it takes an event to drive a change of China’s  foreign
policy , Yemen may prove to be the spark. With $355 billion worth
of trade with  Europe  and a quarter of China’s exports traveling
through Bab el Mandeb -- the strait that separates Yemen from
Somalia and Djibouti -- China cannot afford a collapse of law
and order in Yemen. The crisis-ridden country is countering
multiple threats, including an al-Qaeda insurgency after mass
protests and intercommunal fighting that forced the resignation
of President Ali Abdullah Saleh and paved the way for elections
later this month.  Policy Breached Before  China has breached its non-interference policy to respond
to these pressures in the recent past. Its deployment of naval
vessels off the coast of Somalia to counter piracy, for example,
constituted the first Chinese venture of its kind.  But China’s status as an emerging economic superpower
demands that it become a more muscular global actor to pursue
its interests. Ultimately that will mean taking positions on
domestic disputes and conflicts around the world that have a
bearing on China’s global national-security interests, the very
opposite of the stance it adopted on Syria. Similarly, China
will need to maintain military bases in key regions that serve
to secure Chinese demand for natural resources, and to satisfy
domestic calls to ensure the safety of its nationals abroad.  In short, China will have to use virtually the same tools
employed by the U.S., shouldering the risks of a foreign policy
that is interest-driven and therefore, at times, contradictory.  (James M. Dorsey is a senior fellow at the S. Rajaratnam
School of International Studies at Nanyang Technological
University in  Singapore  and the author of the blog, The
Turbulent World of Middle East Soccer.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
James M. Dorsey at  jmdorsey@questfze.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net . 