-- China Money Market Rate Rises After First Repos in Eight Weeks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-07T09:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/china-money-market-rate-rises-after-first-repos-in-eight-weeks.html
China ’s money-market rate climbed for
a second day after the central bank resumed sales of repurchase
contracts for the first time in eight weeks, spurring concern
cash supplies will decline.  The People’s Bank of China sold 26 billion yuan ($4.1
billion) of  28-day  repo contracts at 2.8 percent, according to a
statement on on the central bank’s website today. The monetary
authority won’t issue any bills today, even after it gauged
banks’ demand for three-month and one-year bills yesterday,
according to traders at a primary dealer required to bid at the
auctions, who wouldn’t be identified because the information
isn’t public.  “The repo rate extended the gain started yesterday, which
was caused by the news of the resumption of open-market
operations,” said Guo Caomin, a bond analyst in  Shanghai  at
Industrial Bank Co. “But the 28-day repo is the mildest
liquidity draining tool among all maturities, so the resumed
sale may have a very small effect on  money supply .”  The seven-day  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, rose five basis points, or 0.05 percentage
point, to 3.50 percent in Shanghai, according to a weighted
average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, added three
basis points to 3.24 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.44 percent government bond due June 2016
dropped one basis point to 3.10 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  -- Judy Chen . Editors: Sandy Hendry, Anil Varma  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 