-- China to Increase Domestic Diesel, Gasoline Prices First Time in 10 Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-08T09:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/china-to-raise-domestic-fuel-prices-from-tomorrow-c1-says-1-.html
China , the world’s second-biggest oil
consumer, raised domestic fuel prices for the first time in 10
months to spur production by refiners including  China Petroleum
& Chemical Corp. (386)  and  PetroChina Co. (857)   Retail gasoline and diesel cost 300 yuan ($47.58) a metric
ton more starting today, the National Development and Reform
Commission  said  on its website yesterday. The increase is
equivalent to 0.22 yuan a liter on average nationwide for
gasoline and 0.26 yuan a liter for diesel, China’s top economic
planning agency said.  China Petroleum, known as Sinopec, and PetroChina, the
country’s biggest refiners, have urged the government to
increase prices after international crude costs rose. The
government controls fuel prices to curb inflation, which cooled
to a 15-month low of 4.1 percent in December.  “Sinopec benefits the most as it is more leveraged to
refining, and our estimates show it may be nearly breaking even
with gross refining margins at around minus $1 a barrel,”
Sophie Tan and Brynjar Eirik Bustnes, Hong Kong-based analysts
at JPMorgan Securities Asia Pacific Ltd., said in a note today.
PetroChina’s margins are minus $3 to $4 a barrel, they said.  Sinopec rose 1.8 percent to HK$9.45 in  Hong Kong  trading
today, while PetroChina climbed 2.2 percent to HK$11.86. The
benchmark  Hang Seng  index gained 1.5 percent.  Ensuring Supply  PetroChina’s losses from refining were 41.5 billion yuan in
the first nine months of 2011 and Sinopec’s were 23.1 billion
yuan. PetroChina said Oct. 21 its refining loss may widen to 50
billion yuan for all of 2011, from 23.4 billion in the first
half. Sinopec’s six-month refining loss was 12.2 billion yuan.  “Increasing fuel prices according to the pricing mechanism
will encourage production by the refiners and ensure supply to
the domestic market,” the NDRC said in a  separate report . “It
will also rationalize consumption and promote energy
conservation and emissions reduction.”  China introduced a pricing system in December 2008 that
allows the NDRC to adjust retail fuel prices when the moving
average of a basket of three crude varieties changes more than 4
percent over 22 working days.  The moving average of Brent, Dubai and  Indonesia ’s Cinta,
the three crude types in the pricing basket, climbed 4.2 percent
over the past 22 working days as of Feb. 6, according to
Shanghai-based commodity researcher C1 Energy.  C1  reported  the price increase yesterday, before the
government announcement.  Introducing Changes  Brent crude  rose 0.2 percent to $116.51 a barrel in London
trading as of 4:59 p.m. Singapore time. The futures contract has
gained 9 percent this year.  China must introduce changes to the current pricing method
to “rationalize” fuel prices, the NDRC said. The government is
studying possible alterations to the pricing system and will
seek public opinion after ironing out details, it said.  Changes will involve shortening the pricing cycle,
improving the execution of changes and changing the crude grades
assessed, it said. The government reduced fuel price increments
and delayed some adjustments last year to cushion the impact of
 rising costs , the NDRC said.  Gasoline and diesel tariffs increased by as much as 550
yuan a ton in 2011, when they should have risen by 1,500 yuan in
accordance to the current pricing method, it said.  The NDRC last adjusted fuel prices in October, when rates
were cut by 300 yuan a ton. The last increase was in April.  Energy Security  The price increase can “perhaps be taken as a sign that
this year the government may allow for more regular price
adjustments in line with the international crude oil price
changes, unlike last year, in light of the downward inflation
trend,” Soozhana Choi, the Singapore-based head of Asian
commodities research at Deutsche Bank AG, said in a note today.  China may raise retail gasoline and diesel prices by 15
percent in five separate increases to about $4.10 a gallon this
year,  Gordon Kwan , head of energy research at Mirae Asset
Securities Ltd. in Hong Kong, said in a December report.  “The current political and economic situation in the world
is relatively complicated, and we cannot ignore the risk of
shocks in the oil markets because of the Iranian nuclear
crisis,” the NDRC said yesterday. “We face severe challenges
in petroleum supply security.”  The U.S. and allies including the U.K. and the European
Union have imposed sanctions on Iran to pressure it to allow
inspections of its nuclear program, which Western nations say
may be aimed at creating nuclear weapons. Iran, which says it
needs nuclear power for civilian purposes, has threatened to
block the  Strait of Hormuz  if its economy is targeted.  The  risk premium  in  oil prices  should be two to three times
higher than it is now, based on the risk of military conflict in
 Iran  and a potential lack of spare output capacity globally,
according to Steen Jakobsen, chief economist of Saxo Bank A/S.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  