-- CIT Redeeming $4 Billion of Debt in Quest for Investment-Grade
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-02-07T23:22:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/cit-buying-back-4-billion-of-bonds-in-quest-for-investment-grade-ratings.html
CIT Group Inc.  plans to redeem almost
all of the $4 billion of debt tied to its exit from bankruptcy
as the small-business lender led by  John Thain  seeks a return to
investment-grade credit ratings.  CIT will buy back $1 billion of its 7 percent Series A
second-priority secured notes due in 2016 and about $2.9 billion
of the debt maturing in 2017 on March 9, the New York-based
company said in a statement today. Repaying the debt will make
the company’s outstanding Series C notes and its revolving
 credit line  unsecured, leaving the lender with a “largely
unencumbered balance sheet,” Thain said in the statement.  “This is a significant milestone for CIT,” Thain,
chairman and chief executive officer of CIT, said in the
statement. “These efforts will improve our financial
flexibility as we continue to provide much needed financing to
the small business and middle market sectors.”  The redemption will bring to $22 billion the amount of
first-lien and second-lien debt CIT has eliminated or refinanced
since the start of 2010, according to the statement. CIT, which
is recovering from a bankruptcy that wiped out $2.3 billion in
government bailout money, is  graded  B2 with a “stable” outlook
by Moody’s Investors Service and B+ with a “positive” outlook
from  Standard & Poor’s .  Once the Series A debt is fully repaid, liens on a
revolving line of credit and the Series C notes “fall away” so
that debt becomes unsecured, Chief Financial Officer  Scott Parker  said in a Nov. 16 conference call. That’s part of the
company’s plan to regain investment-grade credit ratings, he
said.  CIT issued $3.25 billion of bonds on Feb. 2 to help pay
back the higher-cost and restrictive debt, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Investment-grade ratings are those Baa3 and higher by
Moody’s and BBB- and higher by S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  