-- Cliffs Becomes Easy Target With Cheapest Mining Value: Real M&A
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-02-07T21:22:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/cliffs-becomes-easy-target-with-cheapest-mining-value-in-america-real-m-a.html
For all the acquisitions being struck
in the  mining industry , no company in North America is a cheaper
takeover candidate than  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc.   The biggest North American iron-ore producer yesterday sold
for 6.4 times its cash from operations, after deducting capital
expenses, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That was less
than every other metals or mining company in the U.S. or Canada
exceeding $5 billion in market value, and a 70 percent discount
to the median. Cleveland-based Cliffs, which analysts say will
generate  record sales  in 2012, was also the least expensive
relative to its estimated  net income  this year and next.  Mining takeovers accelerated to a four-year high in 2011 as
companies sought to replace deposits and industrial growth in
China and the developing world fueled demand for raw materials.
With Glencore International Plc and  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  agreeing to
merge to create a $90 billion global mining company, Cliffs may
attract interest from  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  or  Rio Tinto  Group,
Lutetia Capital said. An acquirer could pay a 30 percent premium
and still get Cliffs for less than any comparable publicly
traded mining company versus its  free cash flow , the data show.  “There could be more vertical integration” after Glencore
and Xstrata, Mark Keller, chief executive officer of Confluence
Investment Management in  St. Louis , which manages $1 billion
including shares of Cliffs, said in a telephone interview. As a
result, “the first-rate mid-sized companies like Cliffs I think
potentially become takeover targets,” he said.  Steve Baisden, a spokesman for Cliffs, declined to comment
on whether the company has been approached about an acquisition
or is considering putting itself up for sale.  Cars, Skyscrapers  Ruban Yogarajah, a spokesman for Melbourne-based BHP,
declined to comment on whether the company is considering buying
Cliffs. Illtud Harri, a spokesman for London-based  Rio Tinto ,
didn’t respond to a telephone message seeking comment.  Shares of  Cliffs  advanced as much as 2.7 percent and closed
up 0.7 percent at $75.51 today in  New York . The gain was the
third-biggest among 30 companies in the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Materials Index .  Founded in 1847, when investors from  Ohio  pooled resources
to explore for minerals in  Michigan , Cleveland-Cliffs Inc.
renamed itself Cliffs Natural Resources after it agreed to buy
Alpha Natural Resources Inc. in July 2008. While the deal was
scrapped four months later in the midst of the biggest financial
crisis since the Great Depression, Cliffs kept its current name.  The company now produces the most iron-ore pellets in  North
America . It also exports the raw material, used to make steel
found in everything from automobiles to skyscrapers, to China
and other Asian markets from its mines in eastern Canada and
 Australia , according to its regulatory filings.  Relative Value  Since reaching an almost three-year high on July 19, shares
of Cliffs retreated  26 percent  through yesterday, the largest
drop after Alcoa Inc. among 30 companies in the  S&P 500
Materials Index , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In September, Cliffs posted its biggest  two-day slump  in
more than two years amid concern the  U.S. economy  would fall
back into a recession, curbing iron-ore demand. The company said
last month that 2011 sales volume for eastern  Canada  would reach
7.4 million tons, short of its forecast of 8 million as Cliffs
suffered crusher, dryer and other equipment outages.  Shares of Cliffs ended at $74.99 yesterday, leaving the
company valued at $10.7 billion. That was 6.4 times its  free
cash flow  in the past year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In
North America, the median multiple for the 20 metals and mining
companies with more than $5 billion in value was 23.5 times.  BHP, Rio Tinto  Cliffs also traded at 7.3 times analysts’ per-share
estimates for 2012 profit and 6.3 times their projections for
2013. That was at least 40 percent less than the industry’s
median ratio in each of those years, the data show.  BHP and  Rio Tinto , which both get more than a quarter of
their revenue from  China , may now want Cliffs’ iron-ore business
to increase exports to the world’s fastest-growing major
economy, according to Confluence’s Keller and Jean-Francois Comte, co-founder of Paris-based Lutetia.  China, which used more iron ore than all other countries
combined last year, relied on imports to meet almost 70 percent
of its demand, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It imported 687
million metric tons of iron ore in 2011, more than double the
amount it bought from overseas suppliers five years ago.  Buying Cliffs, which produced about 40 million metric tons
of iron ore in the past 12 months, could boost BHP’s total
output by almost 30 percent and Rio Tinto’s by about 20 percent,
the data show.  BHP  and Rio Tinto, the world’s largest and third-
largest mining companies by market value, compete with Rio de
Janeiro-based  Vale SA  in the global iron-ore market.  ‘Extremely Well Positioned’  Iron ore is “where most of the shortage in China is,”
Lutetia’s Comte, who oversees a $100 million event-driven fund,
said in a telephone interview. “Cliffs is, on a fundamental
basis, we believe undervalued. They’re extremely well positioned
to be an acquisition target.”  Anglo American Plc , less than half the size of BHP and Rio
Tinto, may look to acquire Cliffs as the Glencore-Xstrata merger
increases pressure on smaller mining companies to combine or
risk being taken over, Confluence’s Keller said.  Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore, the world’s biggest
commodities trader, and  Xstrata  of Zug,  Switzerland , together
will become the world’s biggest producer of zinc, lead and
thermal coal and one of the five largest suppliers of copper and
nickel, according to UBS AG.  Cliffs may also entice  ArcelorMittal , the world’s biggest
steelmaker, with the possibility of securing more supplies of
the material it needs to make the alloy, said Timothy Hayes, a
Richmond, Virginia-based analyst at Davenport & Co.  ‘Slip Away’  ArcelorMittal (MT)  earned less than 5 cents operating income for
every dollar of revenue in 2010, about  three-quarters less  than
in 2005, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Cliffs is going to be a very attractive stock in the long
term and from the M&A side,” Anthony Young, an analyst at
Dahlman Rose & Co. in New York, said in a telephone interview.
“If you were to have another miner come in and make an offer
for Cliffs, then all of a sudden you could have a steel guy who
says, ‘Oh man, I can’t let these assets slip away.’”  “You could very well have multiple entities that would be
interested,” he said.  Emily Blyth, a spokeswoman for London-based Anglo, and
Giles Read of Luxembourg-based ArcelorMittal, declined to
comment on whether the companies are considering buying Cliffs.  A slowdown in China, the world’s largest user of industrial
metals, may reduce earnings for raw materials suppliers and
deter the pace of dealmaking, according to Kuni Chen, an analyst
at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  IMF Forecast  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2012 growth
forecast for China to 8.2 percent from 9 percent last month,
after the nation expanded in the last three months of the year
at the slowest rate in 10 quarters.  China’s growth would be cut almost in half if  Europe ’s debt
crisis worsens, the Washington-based IMF said yesterday.  If Chinese demand “falls short then you have downside to
the iron ore price,” Chen said in a telephone interview. “From
the standpoint of a potential bidder here, they would certainly
be concerned over where supply is heading over the next couple
of years, so I think that may be a deterrent.”  Economists surveyed by Bloomberg still estimate that China
will grow 8.5 percent this year. Even at the 8.2 percent rate
that they are projecting for 2013, Chinese demand for iron ore
will probably keep prices from falling because the country uses
more than 40 percent of the world’s steel, Dahlman’s Young said.  Bullish Options  “Sure it’s slowing, but it’s already gotten to a point of
such size that it’s going to continue to draw in a massive
amount of raw materials,” he said.  Cliffs could command a takeover premium of at least 30
percent above yesterday’s price, or about $97.50 a share,
according to Lutetia’s Comte.  At $110 a share, the price Confluence’s Keller says Cliffs
could get in an acquisition, it would still be cheaper than any
other mining company in North America relative to free  cash
flow , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Options traders  are betting that the value of Cliffs will
also increase. The ratio of calls to buy Cliffs shares versus
puts to sell reached 1.28-to-1 on Jan. 25, the highest level
since January 2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If I have to put my money somewhere on what could be a
target, what’s exciting as an acquisition, I’d rather put my
money on a company like Cliffs,” said Lutetia’s Comte.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 