-- Coca-Cola Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates as Asia Sales Jump
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-02-07T21:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/coca-cola-fourth-quarter-profit-beats-estimates-as-sales-advance-in-asia.html
  Coca-Cola Co. , the world’s largest
soft-drink maker, reported fourth-quarter profit that topped
analysts’ estimates as teas and juices boosted sales in  Asia .  Profit excluding some items was 79 cents a share, Atlanta-
based Coca-Cola said today in a statement. That exceeded the 77-
cent average of 14 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
Net income in the quarter fell to $1.65 billion, or 72 cents a
share, from $5.77 billion, or $2.46, a year earlier, when the
company posted a gain from an acquisition.  Chief Executive Officer  Muhtar Kent  is expanding sales of
beverages in Asia with global marketing campaigns and products
such as its Minute Maid Pulpy juice drink. Fourth-quarter sales
volume climbed 5 percent in  Japan  and 10 percent in China.  “Coke’s fourth-quarter results benefited from continued
strength from its international beverage portfolio,” Ann Gurkin, an analyst for Davenport & Co. in Richmond,  Virginia ,
said today in a telephone interview. “We also found the
continued strong performance by the Coca-Cola and Coke Zero
franchises as a standout for the North American segment.”  Coca-Cola rose 0.8 percent to $68.55 at 4 p.m. in  New York .
The  shares  climbed 6.4 percent last year, while PepsiCo Inc.
gained 1.6 percent.  The company also said it plans to reduce costs by $550
million to $650 million by 2015 and use the savings to invest in
its brands and mitigate higher commodities prices. Coca-Cola
said it exceeded the $500 million it sought to cut during the
four years that ended in the last quarter.  Higher Prices  Coca-Cola, which is facing higher costs for commodities
such as plastic and corn-based sweeteners, raised pricing to
retailers in  North America  by 1 percent for the year, less than
the 2 percent to 3 percent it forecast in October.  Kent said demand is strong for its flagship Coca-Cola soft
drink, with volume sales gaining 1 percent even as the company
raised retail pricing for carbonated beverages by 4 percent.  “It’s a testament to the strength of our brands,” Kent
said in a telephone interview.  Commodity costs this year may increase as much as $450
million from 2011, driven by juice ingredients and sweeteners,
Chief Financial Officer Gary Fayard said on a conference call
with analysts. Foreign-currency fluctuations may reduce
operating income in 2012 by a mid-single digit percentage,
Fayard said.  “We have the right strategic plans in place to mitigate
the impacts of these incremental commodity costs and remain
confident in our ability to achieve our long-term growth
targets,” Fayard said on the call.  North American Sales  Fourth-quarter sales volume in North America gained 1
percent. Volume sales of Coca-Cola’s flagship soft drink in the
region grew 1 percent in the quarter, while Coke Zero increased
by a high single-digit percentage, the company said.  Total sales in the quarter rose 5.2 percent to $11 billion,
matching the average estimate of 11 analysts. The Pacific  region 
unit, which includes  China  and Japan, boosted sales volume 5
percent. In the company’s Eurasia and Africa group, volume
climbed 4 percent while operating income jumped 16 percent.
Sales volume in  India  rose 20 percent.  In the year-earlier quarter, Coca-Cola recorded a $5
billion gain for the 33 percent stake in Coca-Cola Enterprises
Inc. it traded in the purchase of the bottler’s North American
operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  