-- Coinstar Soars on Profit, Buyout of NCR Unit: Los Angeles Mover
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-02-07T21:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/coinstar-soars-on-profit-buyout-of-ncr-unit-los-angeles-mover.html
Coinstar Inc. , owner of the Redbox
movie-rental kiosks, rose the most in 15 months after reporting
profit that almost tripled and plans to buy the competing DVD
service operated by  NCR Corp. (NCR)   Coinstar  advanced  14 percent to $57.53 at the close in  New
York  for its biggest daily gain since Oct. 29, 2010. The stock
is up 26 percent this year, compared with a 7.1 percent gain in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The shares surged after the Bellevue, Washington-based
company yesterday reported the better-than-predicted results
and the accord to buy NCR’s DVD business for as much as $100
million. Earlier in the day, Coinstar agreed to join with
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  in a venture that gives the company
a foothold in the fast-growing video-streaming field, along with
its industry-leading kiosk business.  The agreements “really put us in a nice position, and we
think it will help us expand,” Chief Financial Officer Scott Di Valerio said in an interview.  Fourth-quarter net income advanced to $31.5 million, or $1
a share, from $11.7 million, or 35 cents, a year earlier, which
included a loss on discontinued operations, the company said in
a  statement . Analysts projected 65 cents, the average of 10
 estimates . Sales rose 33 percent to $520.5 million, beating
forecasts of $498 million.  With the NCR agreement, Redbox will acquire a DVD rental
business that operated 10,000 vending machines as of November,
along with software and services, Coinstar said.  In May, NCR sued a trust set up for Blockbuster Inc., sold
to satellite TV provider  Dish Network Corp. (DISH) , to retain rights to
the Blockbuster Express name used on the rental service.  Verizon Accord  NCR, based in Duluth,  Georgia , rose 11 percent to $21.19,
the largest one-day gain since January 2008.  The Coinstar-Verizon venture will offer video streaming
along with rentals from Redbox’s kiosks, which currently total
about 35,400. Redbox will take a 35 percent stake in the
business, which will stream movies over the Internet to a
variety of devices, according to regulatory filings today.  Coinstar will make an initial cash investment of
$14 million into the venture and may add more, according to
a regulatory filing. The companies may eventually contribute
$450 million, the filings said.  This quarter, Coinstar forecast sales of $530 million to
$555 million and profit of 76 cents to 91 cents a share,
excluding contributions from today’s deals. Analysts were
estimating 86 cents and sales of $518.9 million on that basis.  Redbox Prices  Redbox raised prices in October, boosting the charge for a
standard DVD by 20 percent to $1.20 per day to cover increases
in fees paid for debit-card transactions. The higher price for a
single-day DVD rental and fewer than expected debit-card
transactions contributed to the results, Di Valerio said.  The company last week rejected  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s demand
that Redbox wait 56 days before renting new Warner Bros. movie
releases. Coinstar said it will get the videos from third-party
suppliers and make them available as soon as they go on sale.  The company expects to get new videos into its kiosks
within seven to 10 days of their release, Di Valerio said.
Redbox will pursue only those Warner titles likely to attract
consumers to the kiosks, Chief Executive Officer Paul Davis said
on a conference call.  Redbox had waited 28 days to get videos from Warner under
the previous deal. The unit still waits 28 days for DVDs from
Comcast Corp.’s  Universal Pictures  and  News Corp. ’s Fox. Walt
Disney Co.,  Viacom Inc. ’s Paramount and  Sony Corp.  make their
DVDs available for rental on the day of release.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  