-- Collective Brands Said to Pare Pool of Bidders to 10 Ahead of Second Round
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n ,   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r   a n d   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-02-07T21:26:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/collective-brands-said-to-pare-pool-of-bidders-to-10-ahead-of-second-round.html
Collective Brands Inc. , owner of the
Payless ShoeSource chain, is reducing the pool of suitors for
all or part of its business ahead of the second round of
bidding, said people familiar with the matter. The stock rose.  The company began yesterday notifying the 20 bidders from
the first round whether they would move on to the next, which
will comprise about 10 parties, said the people, who declined to
be identified as talks are private. Based on bids so far,
Collective Brands could get at least $20 a  share  if the entire
business is sold, said one of the people. That would value the
Topeka, Kansas-based retailer at about $1.2 billion.  Collective Brands got initial offers from buyout firms TPG
Capital and  Leonard Green  & Partners LP, as well as from rivals
such as  Wolverine World Wide Inc. ,  Columbia Sportswear Co. (COLM)  and
 Deckers Outdoor Corp. (DECK) , the people said. The retailer is keeping
at least 10 suitors to have greater choice in a sale, two of the
people said.  Collective Brands rose 6 percent to $18.24 today at the
close in New York. Before today the stock had gained more than
70 percent since Aug. 23, the day before the company announced
its review.  Collective Brands, whose sales were  projected  to reach $3.4
billion in the year ended in January, disclosed the strategic
review in August, with Perella Weinberg Partners LP and Kurt
Salmon advising the board. At that time, the company also
reported a $35 million loss and said it planned to shut 475
stores in the next three years.  Piecemeal Sale?  The company is open to selling itself piecemeal, shedding
parts such as the Payless chain or the Performance + Lifestyle
Group, or as a whole, these people said.  Other first-round bidders included  Brown Shoe Co.  and
private-equity fund  Golden Gate  Capital Corp., which bid on the
Payless unit, said these people. Collective Brands will probably
ask for final bids toward the end of March to close the deal
before early April, one person said.  A representative at Collective Brands declined to comment,
as did those at Wolverine, Golden Gate, Leonard Green and TPG.
Spokesmen at Columbia, Deckers and Brown Shoe didn’t respond to
calls seeking comment.  Some of the private-equity funds may team up with retailers
or other strategic bidders to put in combined bids for the whole
retailer, these people said. Bidders in the next round will
receive management presentations and access to a second data
room, they said.  Payless ShoeSource Inc. became Collective Brands after
acquiring Stride Rite Corp. in August 2007. The company operates
almost 4,500 Payless stores in 34 countries and owns the Keds
and Saucony brands.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  