-- Oil Rises Most in Three Weeks as Dollar Weakens on Bernanke Jobs Comments
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-07T21:49:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/crude-oil-pares-decline-as-greek-officials-work-on-financing-document.html
Oil rose the most in three weeks as
the dollar fell against the euro after Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said the 8.3 percent rate of unemployment in
January understates weakness in the U.S. labor market.  Futures increased 1.5 percent as the currency dropped on
Bernanke’s comments and signs that Greece is near a debt
agreement. West Texas Intermediate crude advanced more than
Brent in  London , reducing the European benchmark’s premium over
New York oil for the first time in nine days.  “Bernanke made some pretty bearish statements and the
dollar tanked,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork
Group in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Once the dollar dropped you
saw WTI rebound.”  Oil for March delivery rose $1.50 to settle at $98.41 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the biggest one-day
gain since Jan. 17. Prices have fallen 42 cents this year.  Brent oil for March settlement increased 30 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $116.23 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. Today’s close was the highest
since Aug. 2.  Oil advanced after the settlement, reaching $98.77 a barrel
at 4:48 p.m. after the  American Petroleum Institute  said U.S.
oil inventories fell 4.53 million barrels last week.  The dollar fell to the lowest level against the euro since
Dec. 12 after Bernanke told the Senate Budget Committee that the
U.S. has a long way to go before the jobs market operates
“normally.”  Commodities rose to a five-month high on his remarks. The
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials increased 0.7
percent, led by oil, aluminum and silver.  U.S. Economy  “It’s all about Bernanke’s testimony as we are seeing the
euro gaining against the dollar after his talk,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of Iitrader.com
in  Chicago .  The euro also strengthened as  Greece ’s government and
international creditors are working on the final draft of an
agreement on budget and structural measures needed to free up a
second aid package. The 17-nation currency increased as much as
1.1 percent.  “At this particular moment it looks like maybe there will
be a deal in Greece,” said  Michael Lynch , president of
Strategic Energy & Economic Research in Winchester,
 Massachusetts .  The spread between oil in New York and Brent in London
narrowed to $17.82 from $19.02 yesterday. The price difference
between the two benchmark grades widened to $20.70 a barrel in
intraday trading today, the highest level since October.  WTI-Brent Spread  “We finally start to see a retracement in the Brent-WTI
spread,” said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime
Brokerage Inc. in  New York . “It went above $20 this morning and
all of a sudden there is a correction in the spread.”  The differential narrowed to as small as $7.93 on Dec. 27
after Enterprise Products Partners LP and Enbridge Inc.
announced Nov. 16 that they will reverse the 500-mile Seaway
pipeline in June to ship oil from Cushing,  Oklahoma , the
delivery point of Nymex futures, to the Gulf Coast. The spread
has grown since then.  “The WTI-Brent spread had widened too much at the front
recently,” said  David Greely , head of energy research at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in New York. “The Seaway pipeline is
still scheduled to reverse in June, and the spread is too wide
for June, July and the following months when the pipeline should
be open.”  U.S. Price Forecast  The U.S. Energy Department  increased its crude-oil price
projection for 2012 to  $100.40 a barrel  this year from $100.25 a
barrel in January today in its monthly Short-Term Energy
Outlook. It also trimmed global demand and non-OPEC production
forecasts.  Oil fell as much as 1.1 percent earlier on speculation that
U.S. crude  inventories  climbed to the highest level in more than
four months. Stockpiles increased 2.5 million barrels, or 0.7
percent, to 341.4 million in the week ended Feb. 3, according to
the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
before an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Crude supplies swelled as refineries operated at 81.4
percent of capacity last week, according to the survey.  Inventories rose 4.18 million barrels to 338.9 million in
the week ended Jan. 27, the Energy Department reported on Feb.
1. The refinery utilization rate fell to 81.8 percent in the
same week, the  second lowest  for this time of year since 1992.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 1.07
million contracts as of 4:40 p.m. in New York, the highest
level, excluding floor trading, since Nov. 16, the day the
Seaway pipeline reversal was announced.  Combined electronic and floor volume totaled 682,698
yesterday, 15 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.47 million contracts, the highest level since
Sept. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  