-- Crude Oil Trades Near Six-Week Low on Forecast of Rising U.S. Stockpiles
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-02-07T13:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/crude-oil-trades-near-six-week-low-on-forecast-of-rising-u-s-stockpiles.html
Oil fell to near a six-week low in
 New York  before a report forecast to show that U.S. stockpiles
increased last week. U.S. crude’s discount to North Sea Brent
oil surpassed $20 for the first time since October.  West Texas Intermediate futures extended yesterday’s
decline, bringing this week’s loss to 1.8 percent. Greek Prime
Minister  Lucas Papademos  will meet the country’s political
leaders today to discuss measures for securing a second European
Union-led bailout. U.S.  crude inventories  probably rose to the
highest in more than four months and gasoline supplies climbed
for a second week, according to a Bloomberg survey before an
Energy Department report tomorrow.  “The market is oversupplied, which is putting pressure on
WTI,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt , who forecasts oil will slide this year. “But fears
of supply disruption are keeping Brent supported. The widening
of the spread is the constant factor in the market.”  Oil for March delivery dropped as much as $1.07, or 1.1
percent, to $95.84 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange , and was at $96.03 at 1:07 p.m. London
time. It fell to $95.44 a barrel on Feb. 2, the weakest level
since Dec. 20. Prices have declined 2.8 percent this year.  Brent oil for March settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $115.90 a barrel, down 3 cents.
The European benchmark extended its premium over WTI to as much
as $20.21 a barrel, the widest gap since Oct. 24. The spread
reached a record-high $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Greek Aid  European leaders have increased pressure on  Greece  to meet
the conditions of the 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) rescue,
with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  saying “time is running
out.” While Papademos and the party chiefs already agreed to
make further cuts this year, they have yet to close gaps over
measures demanded by creditors.  U.S.  crude inventories  probably rose 2.5 million barrels in
the week ended Feb. 3, according to the median estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before tomorrow’s Energy
Department report. Gasoline stockpiles  climbed  by 500,000
barrels for a second weekly gain and supplies of distillate
fuels, including diesel and heating oil, declined 1 million
barrels, the survey shows.  Crude stockpiles “are not considered low and we therefore
see some downward pressure on WTI,” said  Victor Shum , senior
principal at Purvin & Gertz Inc., a consultant in Singapore.
“That’s why prices are below $100.”  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
report its own stockpile data today in  Washington .  Oil in New York was higher earlier today after settling
above technical support along the lower Bollinger Band
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
indicator is near $96.28 a barrel today. Buy orders tend to be
clustered close to chart-support levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  