-- Daimler Margin Seen Best Since 2007 as Germans Widen Lead: Cars
-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 2012-02-07T23:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/daimler-margin-seen-best-since-2007-as-germans-widen-lead-cars.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  is set to report its best
profit margin since unraveling the merger with Chrysler five
years ago. For Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche, that
still means third place among the German luxury-car makers.  Daimler, which owns Mercedes-Benz, tomorrow may post a 2011
operating margin of 8.3 percent, the highest since at least
2007, the year it dumped Chrysler, according to the average
estimate of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That trails
 Volkswagen AG (VOW3GY) ’s Audi and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , which are
both poised to surpass 10 percent.  The constant competition among the world’s three biggest
makers of  luxury vehicles , all based in  Germany , has set them
apart in industry profitability.  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker, will likely post a 2011 margin of 5 percent,
according to analysts’ estimates. Fiat SpA’s 2011 margin was 4
percent of sales. The difference is set to remain in 2012.  “The gap in  Europe  will widen to the advantage of the
Germans” this year, said Stefan Bauknecht, a Frankfurt-based
fund manager with Deutsche Bank AG’s DWS. “Fiat and the French
carmakers have the wrong products and the wrong market exposure
and will be under pressure” from Asian manufacturers like
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)   All three German carmakers sold a record number of vehicles
last year, benefiting from expansion in  China  and a rebound in
U.S. spending. Even with the debt crisis projected to lead to a
fifth straight decline in European car sales, BMW, VW and
Daimler are all expecting to grow faster than the global market
this year, helped by updated models like the BMW 3-Series sedan,
Audi A3 compact and Mercedes SL roadster.  Pricing Power  Daimler, which will be the first German carmaker to report
2011 earnings when it releases figures tomorrow, may post profit
margins that are double those of  Fiat (F) , the owner of the Maserati
and Ferrari brands. VW’s margins, diluted by its Seat and
Bentley brands, should still be triple  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s.  “The German automakers have higher structural margins
because they’re in the premium segment and so have more pricing
power than mass-market carmakers,” said Reto Hess, a Zurich-
based analyst with Credit Suisse’s private banking unit. “That
will remain the case this year.”  The Stuttgart-based company, which is also the world’s
biggest maker of heavy-duty trucks, will probably say that
earnings before interest and taxes in 2011 rose 24 percent to
8.8 billion euros on revenue of 105 billion euros, according to
the average  estimate  of 23 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Deliveries rose 7.7 percent last year to a record 1.36 million
Mercedes and Smart vehicles boosted by the updated C-Class.  Germany vs France  Volkswagen, which is slated to report earnings on March 12,
is projected to generate a margin of 7.4 percent as Ebit surges
75 percent to 11.5 billion euros, according to analyst
estimates. The carmaker’s Audi luxury brand had a nine-month
margin of 12.2 percent.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-largest carmaker after Wolfsburg-
based VW, is forecast to report a margin of 2.2 percent for last
year, while French rival  Renault SA (RNO)  may have earned the
equivalent of 2.6 percent of sales, according to Bloomberg
analyst surveys.  BMW is slated to generate the highest margins of the three
German carmakers, as the revamped X3 sport-utility vehicle
fueled a 14 percent rise in sales to 1.67 million vehicles. The
Munich-based company, which is due to present 2011 figures on
March 13, may have increased its margin to 11.9 percent from 8.6
percent,  analysts estimate .  Zetsche, whose Mercedes-Benz has slipped to third in
luxury-car sales behind Audi, has vowed to retake the top
position in deliveries and generate higher earnings than both
rivals by rolling out 10 new cars by 2015.  CLS Shooting Brake  BMW will be able to hold on to its lead for at least
another year, as Mercedes is held back by costs to start a new
factory in  Hungary  and introduce a line of five compact models,
including a coupe and SUV.  “For Daimler, 2012 will be a transition year because of
their new small cars,” said DWS’s Bauknecht. Daimler’s
“headwinds will turn to tailwinds in 2013, while BMW’s growth
momentum slows” as the 5- and 7-Series sedans age, he said.  To regain its edge over BMW and Audi, Zetsche plans to
double versions of the flagship S-Class to six and add models
like the CLS Shooting Brake, a wagon-like variant of the $71,300
luxury coupe.  “It’s impossible to tell our customers, employees, and
investors that we accept being No. 3,” Zetsche said in
September interview.  Margin Peak?  Still, profitability for the German carmakers will probably
take a knock this year as sales shift to lower-margin small
cars. BMW introduced a 1-Series compact late last year, while
Mercedes presents the overhauled A-Class hatchback and VW’s Audi
revamps the A3 compact.  “Even for the Germans, margins have peaked and are coming
down,” said Credit Suisse’s Hess.  Daimler’s margins this year could narrow to 7.6 percent,
while BMW’s and VW’s are forecast to slip to 10.2 percent and
6.7 percent, respectively, according to analysts estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Those compare to margins projections of
2.1 percent from Renault and 2 percent for Peugeot.  “All three German carmakers are operating from a position
of strength” based on decades of delivering leading technology,
said Juergen Meyer, a  fund manager  with SEB Asset Management in
 Frankfurt . “I don’t see anything changing this picture.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 