-- Disney Profit Rises 12% on Growth at ESPN
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-02-08T05:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/disney-earnings-rise-12-on-growth-at-espn.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , the largest U.S.
entertainment company by market value, said first-quarter profit
rose 12 percent on growth at ESPN and its U.S. resorts.  Net income grew to $1.46 billion, or 80 cents a share, from
$1.3 billion, or 68 cents, a year earlier, Burbank, California-
based Disney said yesterday in a  statement . Profit beat the 71-
cent average of 27  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales gained
0.6 percent to $10.8 billion in the period ended Dec. 31,
missing estimates of $11.2 billion.  Higher fees from pay-TV operators drove profit at cable
channels led by ESPN, the most-watched sports network, the
company said. Theme parks benefited from increased  consumer
spending , rising attendance and higher prices. Together the two
units  accounted  for 77 percent of Disney’s operating income last
year and 60 percent of sales. Studio profit rose as spending on
films declined.  “The company has a lot of growth ahead of it this year,”
said Robin Diedrich, an analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  St.
Louis , who recommends investors buy the stock. “Most of that
will come from the theme-parks business, advertising and
subscriber fee growth.”  Disney fell 1.4 percent to $40.40 yesterday in extended
trading after the results. The stock rose 1.3 percent to $40.98
at the close in  New York  and has  gained  9.3 percent this year.  Profit from  cable television , which includes ESPN and the
Disney Channel, increased 25 percent $967 million on higher
affiliate fees and advertising gains at the children’s channel.
In January, the company reached a 10-year programming agreement
with  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the nation’s largest pay-TV service,
providing increased payments for renewed rights to its networks.  Pay-TV Fees  Fees from pay-TV operators will continue to grow due to
agreements with Comcast and other providers, Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Iger  said yesterday on a conference call. Disney
doesn’t expect pay-TV subscribers to cancel service as more
content becomes available online and won’t consider selling
channels individually, he said.  Cable revenue increased 8 percent to $3.31 billion. Ad
revenue at ESPN was little changed as a result of the work
stoppage in professional basketball and college football bowl
games that took place in January this year.  The ABC broadcast unit, which was also part of the Comcast
accord, posted 23 percent lower profit of $226 million on sales
that fell 7 percent $1.47 billion. Lower political advertising
and higher marketing costs contributed to the decline.  Disney is in talks with Univision Communications Inc. to
create a 24-hour English-language cable-news channel, two people
with knowledge of the situation said this week. Iger declined to
comment on the talks.  Park Profits  Profit at Disney’s parks and resorts rose 18 percent to
$553 million on revenue that rose 10 percent to $3.16 billion.
The company raised ticket prices last year. A new cruise ship,
the Disney Dream, entered service in January 2011, and Iger said
the Disney Fantasy completed trials in the North Atlantic.  “Generally the numbers at our parks are very
encouraging,” Iger said on CNBC. “We’ve had increased
attendance. We’ve had increased spending when people come. I
think that says a lot about the American consumer.”  Park reservations are “pacing up mid-single digits” in
percentage terms from a year ago while “booked rates are also
up mid-single digits,” Chief Financial Officer Jay Rasulo said
on the call.  The Disney film studio posted a 10 percent gain in profit
to $413 million. Revenue tumbled 16 percent as the company
continues to reduce production.  Disney Films  Seven Disney films in U.S. theaters in the quarter
collected ticket sales of $239 million, a 33 percent drop from
$357.6 million generated by nine movies a year ago, according to
Box Office Mojo, an industry researcher.  The studio is in talks with  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox and
other services to impose a 28-day delay on rentals of new DVDs,
Iger said on the call. The delay is being sought because of the
industrywide drop in DVD and Blu-ray sales, he said.  The consumer products unit reported profit little changed
at $313 million on a 3 percent higher sales of $948 million.  Disney’s interactive division registered a loss of $28
million. Sales tumbled 20 percent to $279 million. The unit is
cutting costs and taking steps to raise revenue with a goal of
becoming profitable in the next fiscal year, Iger said. It
hasn’t shown a profit since Disney began breaking out the
results in the final three months of 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  