-- Do-It-Yourself Mobile Applications Win Honeywell to Disney: Tech
-- B y   R a c h a e l   K i n g
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/do-it-yourself-mobile-applications-gain-honeywell-to-disney-embrace-tech.html
Dongyan Wang, an executive at data-
storage provider  NetApp Inc. (NTAP) , did what peers at some other
businesses deem unthinkable: He let the company’s 10,000
employees start making their own mobile applications for work.  Do-it-yourself mobile software can be unreliable or leave a
company vulnerable to malware. Wang bet that employee-generated
applications would result in a productivity boost and cost
reduction that outweighed those risks.  One year later, the effort has resulted in 20 apps,
including an employee directory and another that helps provide
 customer service , Bloomberg Businessweek.com reported today. The
apps cost an average of $35,000 to $50,000 to build, compared
with hundreds of thousands of dollars or more for programs made
with help from conventional business-software makers such as  SAP
AG  and  Oracle Corp. , Wang said.  “We call it, ‘You cook and we host for you,’” said Wang,
senior director of enterprise solutions and the person
responsible for mobile apps at Sunnyvale, California-based
NetApp. “Both our own team and our users are amazed at how we
can get value so quickly.”  A growing number of workers, even those without technical
expertise, are building mobile apps for use on the job, a
democratization of technology creation spurred by the boom in
portable devices, such as  Apple Inc.  iPads and the smartphones
featuring  Google Inc. ’s Android. That can create tension with
information technology managers concerned about network
security.  ‘Not the Boss of Me’  Even so, rank-and-file employees will build at least a
quarter of new business applications by 2014, up from less than
5 percent in 2007,  Stamford , Connecticut-based  Gartner Inc. 
predicts.  “The business units are telling IT, ‘You’re not the boss
of me anymore,’” said Jeffrey Hammond, principal analyst at
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc.  The DIY app trend is fueling demand for services provided
by such companies as  Taptera ,  Mobile Roadie  and  Socialize Inc. ’s
AppMakr, which can make it easier and cheaper to build mobile
apps. They’re part of a market for mobile-application
development that generated $20.5 billion in revenue in 2011, and
the figure may rise to $100 billion in 2015, according to a
report from research firm Research2guidance.  Avoiding IT Department  “Within a large organization, it’s typically a small
department that wants an app but doesn’t want to go to IT,”
said Raju Vegesna, whose title is evangelist at software maker
Zoho Corp.  There’s a reason IT departments are reluctant to cede
control of app creation. Employees who build their own apps
might create bugs or security holes in a corporate network.  That’s why NetApp insists on vetting each app much like
Apple reviews each program made available on its  App Store .  “We can’t allow everyone to publish their own app and put
it into the app store,” Wang said. About 90 percent of the apps
that have been built by employees require some revision, he
said.  Still, the app review process at NetApp is fairly nimble
and a way for the company to get new software into circulation
relatively quickly and cheaply when compared to the old way of
creating enterprise software.  “We’re almost the other extreme of traditional IT where
you had to go through a steering committee,” Wang said. “If
the business groups say we have money and this idea, we can
build it within six to eight weeks.”  Open to Customers  The company’s employees make apps for internal use, as well
as use by clients, including one for customer support and
another that compares  NetApp  products with a competitor’s.
There’s also a business-intelligence app that helps executives
analyze corporate data and make decisions.  Employees at  Accenture Plc , the world’s second-largest
technology-consulting company, used AppMakr to build an app to
communicate with clients in its consumer goods and services
division. The app also gives customers access to case studies,
podcasts and news, and it’s available free to other businesses
through Apple’s App Store.  Other app-building services such as Zoho Creator and  Intuit
Inc.’s  QuickBase can help employees create their own Web apps --
applications that are accessed through a mobile Web browser.
Hiring a Web developer to make a custom mobile app can easily
run $50,000 to $75,000. In contrast, some of these services are
free or can cost less than $10,000.  Honeywell, Ikea  Zoho’s Web app building service has been used by employees
at  Honeywell International Inc. , Ikea AB,  Hewlett-Packard Co. ,
 Sony Corp.  and  Walt Disney Co. ’s Pixar.  Even traditional software makers including SAP see mobile-
app development as a less expensive way to connect customers
with their larger-scale software systems.  Chris O’Connor and Dan McCall realized how expensive and
time-consuming it was to develop mobile apps when they were
working at Genentech Inc., the cancer-drug maker acquired in
2009 by  Roche Holding AG .  O’Connor and McCall built about 60 custom apps to do things
like create a company directory or to reserve conference rooms
for employees. The pair co-founded startup Taptera because they
realized that other companies would also want to buy these types
of apps.  Intuit  has given its own employees permission to create
QuickBase apps, which are online database apps designed to
collect and distribute information. So far, 3,500 of the
company’s 8,000 employees have built their own QuickBase apps.  “We still see business teams at the workgroup or division
level having some need that isn’t getting served and choosing to
self-solve,” said Allison Mnookin, vice president and general
manager at Intuit.  One Intuit lawyer built a Web app to manage the process for
submitting patents. The app made it easier for employees to
submit ideas, distribute them internally for review and get
alerts about a reward for those whose ideas get patented.  “He did all of that without needing to know a line of
code,” said Mnookin. “The pace of business is moving faster,
and folks are looking for a way to solve their problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachael King in  San Francisco  at 
 rking25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  