-- Donald Kohn Says China Will Need to Grant Independence to Its Central Bank
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-02-07T19:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/donald-kohn-says-china-will-need-to-grant-independence-to-its-central-bank.html
Donald Kohn , a former vice chairman
of the  Federal Reserve , said “the Chinese will need to allow
the exchange rate to fluctuate.”  “They’ll need to grant independence for the People’s Bank
of  China  to run an independent monetary policy aimed at
macroeconomic stability,” Kohn said during a panel discussion
at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington today. He is now a
member of the Bank of England’s Financial Policy Committee.  The Obama administration says China uses an  undervalued
currency  to give its exporters an unfair advantage in overseas
markets. The U.S. Treasury Department, in a December report,
called for China to adopt “greater exchange-rate flexibility.”  Chinese Vice President  Xi Jinping , who is set to become the
next general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party later this
year and to succeed  Hu Jintao  as president in March 2013, is
scheduled to visit Washington next week.  For China, allowing the yuan to fluctuate would be
preferable to higher wages and prices, Kohn said. Inflation in
China may drop to as low as 3.2 percent in February from 6.5
percent in July, Bank of America Corp. forecasts.  The yuan advanced 0.1 percent today to 6.3048 per dollar in
Shanghai. The People’s Bank of China set the reference rate at
6.3116 per dollar. The yuan, which advanced 4.7 percent in 2011,
is little changed this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency is allowed to trade 0.5 percent on
either side of the daily fixing.  Reserve Currency  Eswar Prasad, a senior fellow at Brookings and a professor
of trade policy at  Cornell University  in Ithaca, New York, said
the yuan will become a reserve currency held by many governments
over the next 10 years.  The Chinese currency “will erode the dollar’s dominance
but will in no way displace it,” said Prasad, who presented a
paper on the yuan’s role in the global monetary system.  Stephen Roach , non-executive chairman of Morgan Stanley
Asia, said he is concerned that both Republican and Democratic
lawmakers are blaming China for U.S. unemployment.  The U.S. had trade deficits with 88 countries in 2010,
proving that it has a “multilateral problem” that can’t be
fixed by adopting measures against China, Roach said on the
panel.  The U.S. trade gap with China in November declined 4.3
percent to $26.9 billion. Exports to China climbed to the
highest since December 2010, showing sustained demand from the
nation for U.S.-made goods. The U.S.  trade deficit  with all
countries increased 10.4 percent to $47.8 billion in November,
according to the Commerce Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in  Washington  at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  