-- Down, Not Out, in Paris as Crisis Whittles Away Welfare State
-- B y   V i d y a   R o o t
-- 2012-02-07T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/down-not-out-in-paris-as-debt-crisis-whittles-away-france-s-welfare-state.html
The 375-year-old state-owned
pawnbroker on Rue des Francs-Bourgeois in Paris’s central  
Marais  district has rarely done brisker business.  On a crisp, cold day last month, Inaya, an unemployed
former  Ikea  manager, waited with about 100 people in a large,
dingy hall at  Credit Municipal de Paris  to pawn a Gucci bag and
some jewelry. Out of work for two years, Inaya, 35, sporting a
tweed jacket and dark pants, was tapping the broker for cash for
the first time as her  unemployment benefits  dwindled.  “There’s no work out there,” she said, declining to give
her last name. “It’s hard to get out of this crisis.”  Europe ’s more than two-year-old sovereign debt crisis and
the economic slump it has brought have driven 30 percent more
people to the Paris pawnbroker and swelling numbers of the poor
to charities such as  Les Restaurants du Coeur . They lay bare the
limits of France’s welfare state which, at about 31 percent of
gross domestic product, is the  world’s most generous  and has
more than 136 billion euros ($178 billion) of debt.  “The structure of the French welfare state is such that you
don’t see acute poverty, but the model has reached its limit,”
said  Philippe Chalmin , a professor at Universite Paris Dauphine.
“It’s clear France will have to invent a new model.”  With public debt of 1.69 trillion euros, or 85 percent of
GDP, France is too hamstrung for expansionary policies to ride
out the slump. Its  government spending  is among the world’s
highest at about 56 percent of GDP, compared with 47 percent in
 Germany ,  Eurostat figures show . France lost its AAA rating last
month at  Standard & Poor’s  for the first time.  ‘Debt Drug’  “There comes a point when you can’t spend more than you
earn,” said Fabrice Seiman, chief executive officer of Lutetia
Capital, which oversees more than $100 million in Paris. “It’s
as true for states as it is for corporates and for people. We’re
paying for 30 years of public finance irresponsibility.”  While the economic situation in France is less dire than in
 Spain , with its 23 percent unemployment rate, and in cash-
strapped  Greece , the crisis is forcing it to rethink its public
service model.  France’s  welfare system  -- supporting the sick, the elderly
and people out of work, family allowances, worker disability
payments and pensions -- will record a 19.9 billion-euro deficit
in 2012, according to Didier Migaud, head of state auditor  Cour
des Comptes .  “The spiral of welfare debt has turned into a drug,”
Migaud said in September, presenting his report for 2010.  Election Topic  President  Nicolas Sarkozy , who faces elections in fewer
than three months, is seeking to cut the state budget by about
30 billion euros this year and next. He has raised the
 retirement age  to 62 from 60, capped healthcare payments and
limited welfare payout increases.  Sarkozy trails Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande  in the
two-round elections on April 22 and on May 6. Hollande has the
support of 34 percent in the first round, 8 points ahead of
Sarkozy, according to a BVA poll on Feb. 6. Hollande wants to
create 60,000 public-sector teaching jobs and bring the
retirement age for some people back to 60.  Efforts to take away any of the welfare benefits will
provoke protests and bring people to the streets, Chalmin said.  “Reforming  France  is exceedingly difficult,” he said.
“French people are very much accustomed to direct intervention
by the state. First, you have to change French minds.”  Neighboring U.K. is also seeking to cut welfare spending to
narrow its budget gap, an effort that has drawn opposition from
some lawmakers as legislation makes its way through Parliament.  Fraying Fabric  Making it harder for France’s welfare reform are forecasts
by the national statistics office Insee that suggest the country
is in a recession. France’s  unemployment  rate is close to 10
percent, with jobless claims at the highest in 12 years.  A walk down central Paris’s streets with their packed
restaurants and stores belies the country’s pain. Also, France’s
 gross savings rate  of about 16 percent of  household income  --
almost three times the U.K.’s, according to figures from the
Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development -- gives many French people a cushion to ride out
the rough patch.  Still, evidence that the social fabric is fraying, at least
at the edges, is hard to miss.  In the light winter drizzle of a recent evening, about 100
people lined up in an alleyway near the metro station Chevaleret
in the 13th arrondissement of Paris for a hot meal from the
charity  Aurore . The numbers have steadily risen in the past
year, a worker for the charity said, declining to be named.  Middle Class  At Restos du Coeur, an aid organization that distributes
free groceries to the poor, women carrying children with runny
noses and old men with walking sticks stood patiently in line on
a recent afternoon, waiting for their supplies of vegetables,
milk, fruits and eggs.  “The numbers have risen at least 10 percent at my center”
said Jeanine Teboul, head of the operation in Paris’s 18th
arrondissement. “Many are retired people who can’t make ends
meet anymore, many have just lost their jobs.”  Even the French middle class hasn’t been spared.  Marie, the owner of an 18-year-old custom-tailoring
business in the French capital’s chic 16th arrondissement, made
her way last month to Credit Municipal de Paris to pawn a ring.
The 38-year-old, who declined to give her last name, said she
had never pawned anything before.  “My client list just dried up and I fired my lone employee
after several of my customers’ checks bounced,” said Marie, who
counts  Patricia Loison , a newscaster on TV channel France 3,
among her clients. “It’s clear the crisis is hurting everyone,
not just the poor. I’ve never seen anything like it.”  ‘Crisis Indicator’  Credit Municipal de Paris spokeswoman Olivia Stauffer said
the number of people turning up at the pawnbroker’s doors has
risen to 658 a day now from 508 in 2010.  “People have more and more difficulty recovering the
objects they pawn,” she said. “We are a crisis indicator.”  The story is similar in the French countryside, where
people like Vinciennes Lauberny, a single mother who lives with
her six-year-old daughter, are struggling to make a living.  Lauberny worked at  EuroDisney (EDL)  in Paris in the mid-1990s
before moving to  Martiel  in southern France, where she does odd
jobs, waitressing or working as a supermarket cashier. She found
work stuffing foie gras into cans in the nearby town of Figeac
some months ago, abandoning it because she couldn’t afford the
gas bill for the 30-kilometer (19 miles) ride each way.  “People talk about the crisis in 2008 but to my mind, it’s
really now that things are going down the drain,” said
Lauberny. “If I make less than 1,500 euros a month net, I
really can’t make ends meet.”  She’ll be 40 soon and wants to emigrate to  Quebec . “I’d
love to move to  Canada ,” she said.  Not everyone is quitting town quite yet. The former Ikea
manager Inaya says she’s keeping her spirits up.  “There’s much that’s right about France,” she said.
“There are places that are much worse than here. We French we
like to live well, but we can pull back just as easily.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vidya Root at in Paris at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  