-- Dun & Bradstreet Declines Most in Five Months After Earnings
-- B y   J o a n n a   O s s i n g e r
-- 2012-02-07T21:48:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/dun-bradstreet-falls-most-intraday-in-five-months-on-earnings.html
Dun & Bradstreet Corp.  declined 4.8
percent, the most since August, after reporting fourth-quarter
revenue that missed analyst estimates amid delays to its
technology-upgrade program.  The provider of business-information and technology
services said it had  sales  of $498.7 million in the three-month
period ended Dec. 31, missing the average analyst estimate by
0.8 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Shares  of the
 Short Hills , New Jersey-based company had risen to an almost
one-year high of $84.97 on Feb. 3. The stock dropped to $80.22.  Dun & Bradstreet announced a technology investment program
it calls MaxCV in February 2010, which it said would cost $130
million and be completed this year. It now says the project will
cost $160 million and be done by the second half of next year.
The company is also reorganizing its operations in  Japan , it
said in a statement yesterday.  “We view DNB as a ‘work-in-progress’ with payback from the
company’s efforts to update its technology infrastructure,
accelerate revenue growth and drive margin upside still at least
a year away,”  Peter Appert , an analyst at Piper Jaffray & Co.
who rates the stock “neutral,” wrote in a report today.
“While we like the DNB business model and the proactive steps
management is taking to solidify growth, a reacceleration in
revenue and earnings growth is still several quarters away.”  Dun & Bradstreet is  rated  a “buy” by two analysts with
eight calling it a “hold,” according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The average of four analysts’ 12-month price
estimates is $83.50, 4 percent higher than the stock’s closing
price today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joanna Ossinger in New York at 
 jossinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  