-- The Commitment-Phobic U.S. Consumer
-- B y   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 2012-02-07T20:58:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/the-commitment-phobic-u-s-consumer.html
     A growing fear is stalking the post-recession U.S. -- fear
of commitment. Americans are balking at all sorts of long-term
entanglements, whether financial, romantic or even parental.  An obvious example is the scarcity of homebuyers and a
related rise in renters. Americans are also leasing, rather
than buying, cars at record rates. Increasingly they’re
refusing to sign long-term contracts for health clubs, mobile
phones and prepaid funerals.
Not all of this commitment-phobia is directly attributable to
a weak economy. By waiting longer to get married, Americans
are continuing a decades-old trend. Yet there’s little doubt
that the recession and housing crisis have shocked many into a
new cautiousness when they’re asked to sign on the dotted
line.  Younger adults are especially averse to locking in.
“People who are young are less certain of their futures and
how they’re going to unfold,” says R. Kelly Raley, sociology
professor at the  University of Texas  at Austin. “That makes
them less willing to make long-term commitments.”  Economic Angst  In the last five years, the U.S. homeownership rate
dipped from 69 percent to 66.3 percent, according to the
Census Bureau. Foreclosures and a scarcity of credit are
helping to drive the decline, but economic uncertainty is also
a factor, says Mark Stapp, professor of real estate practice
at  Arizona State University . “Some people find renting in
uncertain times to be much more palatable,” he says. To follow
a good job, it’s much easier to break a lease than to sell a
home.  Back when housing was strong, so too was Americans’ faith
in their future. “It’s very easy to make long-term commitments
when you know you have hundreds of thousands of dollars in
your home,” says J.J. Montanaro, financial planner at USAA
Investment Management. “It’s a natural fallback.”  Without that security, it’s much harder to tempt shoppers
into big, spur-of-the-moment purchases. Timeshare
packages, for example, are a classic “impulse purchase,” often
sold to vacationers who originally had no intention of buying
a vacation spot, says Shep Altshuler, publisher of Timesharing
Today. According to an Ernst & Young analysis, the timeshare
industry, in which owners pay an average of $19,308 up front
and $731 each year in maintenance for the right to vacation at
a resort, saw sales drop 41 percent from 2007 to 2009.  Rented Wheels  Even when they lack a place to call their own, Americans
have historically taken pride in owning a set of wheels.
According to Edmunds.com, 22 percent of Americans’ car
transactions last year were leases, the highest in at least a
decade. Because of low  interest rates  and higher resale
values, leasing is a better deal than usual, says Philip
Reed, senior consumer advice editor at Edmunds.com.
Manufacturers are also offering incentives that appeal to
younger and low-income customers, including lease terms as
short as two years and compact cars that can be leased for as
little as $199 a month.  Of course, you have to be shopping to get those deals.
Consumers are also sticking with older cars longer, as well as
furniture and other household items. According to the latest
inflation-adjusted data from the  Bureau of Economic
Analysis , total third-quarter 2011  consumer spending  on both
motor vehicles and furnishings remains below 2007 peaks.  Such consumer reluctance is changing industries. Health
and fitness clubs have been known to press customers into
36-month contracts. Market research firm IBISWorld says a
growing number of gyms are attracting customers by offering
flexible month-to-month memberships.  Wireless carrier MetroPCS also attributes much of its
success -- 1 million net subscribers in the first nine months
of 2011 -- to its “no contract” offerings. “It’s really where
the growth is,” says MetroPCS President and Chief Operating
Officer Thomas C. Keys. The “normal human reaction to the
economy,” he says, is “I need less strings attached.”  Postponed Parenthood  That fear of attachment is resulting in fewer babies.
According to National Vital Statistics System data released in
November, the U.S. birthrate, measuring births per 1,000
people, dropped from 14.3 in 2007 to 13 in 2010, after
remaining steady for most of the decade. That translates to
about 316,000 fewer babies born each year, out of 4 million
births.  With more than half of all pregnancies planned, the
obvious cause of this drop in fertility is the economy, says
Duke University sociology professor S. Philip Morgan. “The
reasons are concern for people’s jobs and welfare.”
A study by Morgan finds the number of births fell faster in
so-called Republican “red states” than in Democratic “blue
states,” based on the results of the 2008 presidential
election. “Basically, people in blue states were more
confident that the recession would be handled reasonably, so
they weren’t so frightened,” he says. By contrast, “people in
red states were scared as hell.”  Is there a benefit to all this skittishness? One notable
gain is that Americans are slowly paying off debts. On Jan.
9, the  Federal Reserve  said total  consumer credit  in November
was $2.48 trillion, down 3.3 percent from 2008.  The less debt, the better, but the economy would
undoubtedly benefit from more carefree consumers. “The ability
and willingness of households to spend” is an important
element in the economic recovery, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke 
told Congress on Feb. 2. Jobs data bode well, with 477,000
private sector jobs created in December and January.  Yet  Keith Hembre , chief economist at Nuveen Asset
Management, worries about what else weighs on consumers’
minds: stagnant wages, inflation in fuel and food, and the
threat of higher taxes and lower government benefits. “There
is an awful lot of pessimism,” Hembre says.  To contact the reporter on this story: Ben Steverman at
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Suzanne
Woolley at  swoolley2@bloomberg.net 
