-- Hedge Funds Climbed 0.2% in January on Best Start for Equities in 18 Years
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-02-07T17:50:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/hedge-funds-climbed-0-2-in-january-on-best-start-for-equities-in-18-years.html
Hedge funds  gained 0.2 percent in
January as equities around the world had the best start in 18
years after U.S. economic growth showed signs of accelerating
and European leaders moved closer to a solution for the region’s
debt crisis.  The Bloomberg aggregate hedge fund  index  increased to
114.63 from 114.36 in December as long-short equity, global
macro and multistrategy funds all climbed. Hedge funds fell 4.9
percent last year as concerns grew that  Europe ’s debt crisis
couldn’t be contained and stocks experienced sharp price swings.  “We’re extremely pleased with how the portfolio’s been
performing in 2012 to date,” said John Bailey, founder and
chief executive officer of Spruce Private Investors LLC, whose
 Stamford , Connecticut-based firm advises investors holding about
$3 billion of assets. “Investors will be looking for some
measure of value added in hedge funds in 2012.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index rose 5.8 percent including
dividends in January, the most since it climbed 6.5 percent at
the start of 1994, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
American unemployment and Chinese inflation declined during the
month, German investor confidence jumped and the U.S. Federal
Reserve pledged to keep interest rates near zero percent through
2014.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total Return Index of metals,
fuels and agricultural products added 2.2 percent, the most
since October. Global bonds climbed 0.6 percent and the  U.S.
dollar  fell 1.1 percent. Earnings beat projections at 67 percent
of the 198 companies in the  S&P 500  that reported quarterly
results since Jan. 9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The U.S economy is forecast to grow 2.3 percent in 2012,
according to the median projection in a survey of economists, up
from the estimate of 2.1 percent in December.  Paulson Snaps Losses  John Paulson , the billionaire money manager who had his
worst year on record in 2011, posted gains in all of his funds,
according to an investor update obtained by Bloomberg News.
Paulson & Co., which is based in  New York  and manages about $24
billion, rebounded last month as stocks rallied and gold surged
11 percent. It was the biggest January increase for gold since
1983, as investors speculated that low  interest rates  in
developed nations such as the U.S. and  Canada  will spur global
growth. Paulson investors can choose between dollar- and gold-
denominated versions for most of the firm’s funds.  Multistrategy  hedge funds gained 0.9 percent in January.
Long-short equity funds, whose managers can bet on rising and
falling stocks, advanced 1.6 percent last month.  Macro  funds, which bet on global economic trends, increased
1.1 percent last month. Autonomy Americas LLC’s Global Macro
Fund was up an estimated 4.7 percent in January after returning
14 percent in 2011, according to an e-mail sent to investors, a
copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. The $2 billion
fund is run by Robert Gibbins.  Money Sidelined  The main Bloomberg hedge-fund index is weighted by market
capitalization and tracks 2,825 funds, 1,459 of which have
reported returns for January. The index is down 12 percent from
its July 2007 peak.  Investors pulled $127 million from hedge funds in the
fourth quarter amid wide swings in global markets, leaving the
industry with $2.01 trillion in assets, according to Chicago-
based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  “There’s a lot of money on the sidelines that’s waiting to
get through the uncertainty,” said  Greg Anderson , chief
investment officer of Denver- and Minneapolis-based Princeton
Fund Advisors LLC, which, along with its affiliates, advises
clients on $1.6 billion in assets. “Once you see that
uncertainty resolve, you’ll see a much better marketplace,
especially for alternatives.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  