-- Egypt Bonds Fall as Foreign Reserves Hit 7-Year Low: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-02-07T15:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/egypt-s-dollar-bonds-fall-as-foreign-reserves-drop-to-7-year-low.html
Egypt ’s 2020 dollar bonds retreated,
sending the yield to the highest level this month, after the
central bank said the country’s foreign reserves declined to the
lowest level in more than seven years.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent notes jumped 14 basis
points, or 0.14 of a percentage point, to 7.10 percent at 4:49
p.m. in Cairo, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The
security has returned 7.4 percent this year, compared with 0.7
percent for the  HSBC/NASDAQ Dubai Middle East Conventional
Sovereign US Dollar Bond Index .  The North African country’s  reserves fell  to $16.4 billion
last month, the lowest level since at least December 2004,
according to central bank data. Reserves were at $18.1 billion
in December. The decline came after Egypt paid $651 million of
its external debt to creditors and $625 million was
“repatriated by foreign investors” after their holdings of
treasury bills matured, the regulator said.  “The dollar bonds will be impacted by the draw-down in
reserves in the short-term,” said Anthony Simond, London-based
emerging markets investment analyst at Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc. “In the longer, term Egypt’s progress on the political
side of the equation will have more of an impact. The market has
been bullish so far this year partly based on that.”  Egypt completed parliamentary elections last month and the
presidential poll is due to be held in June, according to a
timeline set by the ruling military council.  IMF Loan  The Egyptian pound was little changed at 6.0327 a dollar
after depreciating 3.8 percent in 2011. Twelve-month non-
deliverable forwards for the pound were at 7.2 a dollar,
reflecting expectations for the currency to decline 16 percent
over that period.  “Hard depreciation, which the central bank has repeatedly
said it is against, is still a worry for us,” Simond said. “If
Egypt gets an IMF deal, it could be a real  turning point .”  The country requested a $3.2 billion loan from the IMF with
an agreement expected “within weeks,” Minister for Planning
and International Cooperation Fayza Aboulnaga, said on Jan. 16.
The government “must present proof” that foreign borrowing is
necessary, or the country’s leading Islamist party in
parliament, Freedom and Justice, will vote against the loan,
Essam El-Erian, the group’s vice chairman, said yesterday.  Five-year credit default swaps, or the cost of protecting
against default on Egyptian government debt for that period,
advanced 13 basis points to 573, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices from the privately
negotiated market. That makes Egypt the riskiest investment in
the  Middle East .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  