-- Egyptian Generals Drop Planned Talks With U.S. Lawmakers Amid NGO Dispute
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-02-07T22:22:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/egyptian-generals-said-to-cancel-meetings-with-u-s-lawmakers.html
An Egyptian military delegation
visiting Washington canceled talks with U.S. senators because
the group was called home amid a dispute over charges against
American pro-democracy workers, according to three U.S.
senators.  The generals were scheduled to meet as early as yesterday
with senators including  Carl Levin , a Michigan Democrat who
heads the Senate Armed Services Committee,  John McCain  of
 Arizona , the top Republican on the panel, and  Joseph Lieberman ,
a Connecticut independent. All three lawmakers said that the
Egyptian delegation canceled at the last minute.  “I assume they were called home because it got too hot”
with the charges announced against the Americans, Lieberman, a
senior member of the armed services panel, said in an interview
today.  Calls and e-mails to the Egyptian embassy weren’t
immediately returned.  Obama administration officials and lawmakers have
criticized Egypt’s plans to prosecute 43 people associated with
non-governmental organizations. State Department spokesman
 Victoria Nuland  said today that the group includes 16 Americans,
about half of them no longer in  Egypt .  The dispute has strained ties between the U.S. and Egyptian
military leaders over the pace of the country’s transition to
democracy and raised questions about the future of U.S. aid to
Egypt.  ‘Prohibited by Law’  Sam LaHood, who works for the International Republican
Institute, and Julie Hughes, the Egypt country director for the
National Democratic Institute, are among those who face
prosecution, Judge Ashraf el-Ashmawy told reporters in Cairo
yesterday. He said the groups are accused of “accepting funds
and benefits from an international organization” to pursue an
activity “prohibited by law” and carrying out “political
training programs.”  The Washington-based groups are close to Republicans and
Democrats in Congress. LaHood is the son of U.S. Transportation
Secretary Ray LaHood, a former Republican House member.  McCain said in a Jan. 26 statement that he was watching
“with growing alarm and outrage how the Egyptian government is
treating U.S. non-governmental organizations that are working
peacefully and transparently to support civil society in
Egypt.”  Aid to Army  U.S. aid to Egypt, linked to a 1979 peace treaty with
 Israel , has averaged about $2 billion a year since then,
according to the  Congressional Research Service , the nonpartisan
research arm of Congress. Most of the aid goes to Egypt’s army.  President  Barack Obama  must certify to Congress that Egypt
is making progress toward democracy for the aid to continue.
Levin said today that Obama shouldn’t certify that Egypt is
making such progress.  “It is kind of hard to have a normal relationship with the
country when we’ve got so many Americans tied up in our
embassy,” Levin said in an interview today, referring to an
undisclosed number of those facing charges who have sought the
safety of the diplomatic compound.  McCain said it is necessary to have “every aspect of our
relationship with Egypt examined” until the Americans are
removed from any indictment and allowed to leave.  Potential Consequences  White House spokesman Jay Carney today reiterated the
administration’s “grave concern” about the crackdown and said
that concern is being discussed “with all levels of the
Egyptian government.”  Egypt’s action could have consequences that “could
potentially affect our relationship and could potentially affect
the aid that we provide,” he told reporters without
elaborating.  On Feb. 2 and Feb. 3, the generals met with State
Department officials, including Assistant Secretary for Near
East Affairs  Jeffrey Feltman  and Assistant Secretary for
Political-Military Affairs  Andrew Shapiro .  The visits were part of a regular dialogue between the U.S.
and Egypt on security assistance, Mark Toner, a State Department
spokesman, said on Feb. 3. He said issues related to NGOs were
discussed. The Egyptian delegation also met last week with
Defense Department officials and with members of Obama’s
national security team. The Egyptians visited the U.S. Central
Command at MacDill Air Force Base near Tampa,  Florida .  Pentagon officials have said the dispute over the
organizations should be resolved without jettisoning the U.S.
relationship with Egypt.  Calling the General  “The bottom line is that the  United States  believes this
issue needs to be resolved very quickly,”  George Little , a
Pentagon spokesman, told reporters yesterday.  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  has twice called Egyptian
Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi, the head of Egypt’s
interim ruling body, to discuss the dispute, especially
restrictions preventing the Americans involved from leaving the
country.  Panetta said he told Tantawi: “Our ability to maintain
that relationship is being impacted by how this matter is being
handled, and so for that reason urged him to do everything in
his power to try to allow these individuals the opportunity to
be able to leave the country.”  Tantawi indicated he would “try to help,” Panetta told
reporters traveling with him in  Europe  last week.  “He obviously has to deal now with the parliament, he has
to deal with what is an independent judiciary,” Panetta said.
“And I said, ‘Welcome to democracy, because I have the same
responsibility to deal with the Congress, and they’re concerned
about this issue.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  