-- Lehman Bust Left Goldmanite Derman, Das Reading Spinoza, Twain
-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 2012-02-07T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/lehman-bust-left-goldmanite-derman-das-reading-spinoza-gatsby-books.html
Writing books on finance is one
thing; reading them is another.  So I discovered when I invited Satyajit Das and Emanuel Derman to discuss their reading in the wake of the crisis that
killed off  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   Das, the derivatives specialist who wrote “Extreme
Money,” cited “The Great Gatsby” and “The Gilded Age.”  Derman, author of “Models.Behaving.Badly” and former head
of quantitative finance at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , gleaned
insights from Spinoza’s “Ethics.”  Here’s a peek at the volumes on their nightstands.  Pressley: What books helped you most in assessing the
fallout from the crisis?  Das: I don’t read many finance books. They are dull and
repetitive, like minimalist music without the entertainment
value.  But one I have re-read several times recently is John
Kenneth Galbraith’s “The Great Crash, 1929” -- to see what it
tells about the dynamics of collapse.  Another one I re-read is Piers Brendon’s “The Dark
Valley,” a fine history of the world around the time of the
Great Depression.  Brendon gives us a sense of what happened and could happen
again. I also re-read F. Scott Fitzgerald’s “The Great Gatsby”
and  Mark Twain ’s “The Gilded Age.”  Jim Grant  Derman: It’s not quite a book, but I am always influenced
by Jim Grant’s Interest Rate Observer newsletters, which
persistently question the role of fiat money and the Fed in
creating and exacerbating the distorted kinds of capitalism
going on right now. He’s got a very eloquent style; it’s almost
British.  Pressley: What’s the best book you’ve read on the rise of
 China  or on the decline of the West?  Das: It’s pointless to look at the economics of China, as
that is merely a byproduct of its political structure.  Richard McGregor’s “The Party” is insightful. It sets out
how the Communist Party controls every aspect of life and the
economy. Party membership is largely driven by potential access
to power and status, often to gain immunity and protection that
allows engaging in activities, including business transactions,
unavailable to non-Party members.  “The Party” exposes a system focused on only one
objective: its own survival and power. The inherent conflicts
are captured by Zhang Ruimin, chief executive of China’s largest
white-goods maker,  Haier. (1169)   “I appointed myself party secretary of Haier,” he is
quoted as saying. “So I can’t have any conflicts with myself,
can I?” He could and did have conflicts, with predictable
consequences: He wisely favored the Party, of course.  Spinoza, Bellows  Derman: The best book I’ve read that addresses, very
indirectly, the supposed decline of the West is Spinoza’s
“Ethics,” which is in part about the role of the transcendent
in human affairs. Saul Bellow discussed this in  a 1988 talk 
published posthumously in the New York Review of Books.  “For people who have no access to any such core
consciousness, no mysteries exist,” he said. “This world of
truly modern, educated, advanced consciousness suspects the core
consciousness that I take to be a fact of being inauthentic and
probably delusive.”  I dislike the naive materialism so prevalent in the West
right now, the irrational belief that rationality is our
salvation.  Luddite, Wanderlust  Pressley: What book is now on your nightstand -- or freshly
downloaded on your iPad or Kindle?  Das: I am a Luddite, so it’s a real book, not an e-book. I
am finishing up  Rebecca Solnit’s  books on the Wild West and
landscapes, “Savage Dreams,” “Wanderlust” and “River of
Shadows.”  She is one of the most interesting writers on the
intersection about humans, culture and the natural world. Given
what we have done and continue to do to our environment, I love
reading her.  Derman: I’m reading “Exile on  Wall Street ” by Mike Mayo.
I normally don’t read a lot of financial books, but somebody
gave me this one and I was pulled into it.  I like Mayo’s persistent refusal to buckle under and accept
the system as it is. I know people who, during the tech bubble,
said that “everyone understands what analyst recommendations
really mean.”  So it’s refreshing to see Mayo try to make words carry
their original meaning as opposed to a wink.  Gregor von Rezzori  Another book by my bedside is “An Ermine in Czernopol” by
the late Gregor von Rezzori. He was an East European who lived
in  Italy , made movies and was a sort of bon vivant. He wrote a
famous book called “Memoirs of an Anti-Semite,” which is not
what it sounds like from the title.  It’s five connected stories by someone who, over his life,
gets intimately involved with Jews on a personal level --
lovers, friends -- but who has an anti-Semitic background and
father. It’s got a very nostalgic air about a lost world, the
Austro-Hungarian Empire and  Europe  between the wars.  “Extreme Money: Masters of the Universe and the Cult of
Risk” is published by  FT Press  (459 pages, $29.99, 20 pounds).  “Models.Behaving.Badly: Why Confusing Illusion With
Reality Can Lead to Disaster, on Wall Street and in Life” is
from  Free Press  in the U.S. and from  Wiley-Blackwell  in the U.K.
(231 pages, $26, 16.99 pounds).  To buy “Extreme Money” in  North America , click  here . To
buy “Models.Behaving.Badly,” click  here .  (James Pressley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.
These comments were condensed from e-mail exchanges and a phone
conversation.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 