-- Elizabeth Taylor’s Van Gogh Sells for 10.1 Million Pounds
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-02-08T00:29:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/elizabeth-taylor-s-van-gogh-sells-for-10-1-million-pounds.html
Paintings that belonged to  Elizabeth Taylor  raised $21.9 million at auction last night as investment-
conscious bidders bought rare works by major-name artists.  The top lot owned by the late actress was a Vincent Van Gogh painting that sold at  Christie’s International (CHRS)  in London
for 10.1 million pounds ($16 million) with fees, beating a
hammer-price estimate of 5 million pounds to 7 million pounds.  Auction-house staff members taking telephone bids were
packed three deep at the sale of 88 Impressionist, modern and
Surrealist works. Economic volatility and decreased returns on
financial investments have spurred rich individuals to buy art
as an alternative asset class. Sellers are encouraged by rising
prices for museum-quality works.  “There’s a lot of belief in the value of tangible assets at
the moment,” the New York-based dealer  David Benrimon  said in an
interview. “We’re seeing a lot more people enter the art market
who have no knowledge or expertise.”  The unsigned 1889 Van Gogh painting, showing the asylum at
Saint-Remy in Provence where the artist was voluntarily confined
after his breakdown in Arles, was bought by a telephone bidder.  “Vue de l’asile et de la Chapelle de Saint-Remy” had been
acquired by Taylor’s art-dealer father as a gift for the actress
for 92,000 pounds at  Sotheby’s (BID)  London in 1963. It later became
the subject of a restitution claim that was rejected by a U.S.
appeals court in 2007.  Degas, Pissarro  The double Oscar-winning star of “Cleopatra” and “Who’s
Afraid of Virginia Woolf,” who died last year, had also been the
owner of an early Edgar Degas self-portrait and an 1894 Camille Pissarro landscape that respectively sold for 713,250 pounds and
3 million pounds, both above estimate.  The rest of her collection was auctioned for $157 million
at Christie’s New York in December. A portion of the sale’s
proceeds will be donated to the Elizabeth Taylor Aids Foundation
(ETAF), Christie’s said. The total raised was $183.5 million,
the auction house said.  The surprise of the night was the record 19.1 million
pounds paid for the 1951 Henry Moore bronze “Reclining Figure:
Festival,” estimated at 3.5 million pounds to 5.5 million
pounds.  Entered by a  New York  seller, the darkly-patinated
sculpture was from an edition of six and was of relatively early
date for the artist’s monumental bronzes. Another version was
exhibited at the Festival of Britain in 1951.  It was bought in the room by the Cologne-based dealer  Alex
Lachmann , who buys for Russian clients, against at least six
other bidders. The price was more than four times the previous
auction record of 4.3 million pounds for the artist, set at
Christie’s, London, in 2008.  Giacometti Logic  “If a Giacometti is worth $100 million, how can an
important Moore be worth less than a tenth of that?” the New
York dealer Christophe Van de Weghe said in an interview. “Maybe
that was the logic behind such an amazing price.”  A 1925 “Painting-Poem” by  Joan Miro  also attracted intense
competition, selling to a telephone bidder for 16.8 million
pounds against a forecast of 6 million pounds to 9 million
pounds. Early works by the Spanish Surrealist are highly prized
and upright paintings of a similar date with ochre grounds are
in the Art Institute of  Chicago  and the New Orleans Museum of
Art.  The most highly estimated lot was the 1914-1915 Cubist
still life “Le livre,” by Juan Gris, valued at 12 million pounds
to 18 million pounds. Though the work had never been offered at
auction before, this proved over-ambitious and Christie’s
allowed the painting to sell to a telephone bidder for 10.3
million pounds, considerably below its forecast.  “The estimate was just too high,” Van de Weghe said.
“Otherwise the good things were selling well.”  The sale, with a success rate of 86 percent by lot, raised
135 million pounds, against a valuation of 86.2 million pounds
to 127.1 million pounds. The equivalent event last year took
84.9 million pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in  London  at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 