-- Energy Takes Twice as Much Income for Half of U.S. Households
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-02-07T15:30:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/energy-takes-twice-as-much-income-for-half-of-u-s-households.html
Energy costs for U.S. households will
almost double this year from 2001, consuming a fifth of the
annual income for half of American homes, according to a study
by a utility group that opposes limits on coal use.  The American Coalition for Clean Coal Electricity, which
includes Atlanta-based  Southern Co.  and  Peabody Energy Corp.  in
 St. Louis , said the 50.4 percent of households earning less than
$50,000 may pay even higher costs as regulators consider limits
on coal-burning power plants.  The study is “further evidence that these regs are going
to cause an impact on the American family,” said Lisa Camooso
Miller, vice president for media relations for the Washington-
based coalition, in an interview.  The group said it will cite the study’s results as it
opposes greenhouse-gas and clean-air regulations by the
Environmental Protection Agency that target coal-fired plants.  Rising gasoline prices accounted for four-fifths of the
increase cited in the study. Household  electricity costs  have
increased at a slower pace because coal generated about half the
nation’s power during the years studied, according to the group.  For this year, energy costs for about half the U.S.
households will be 21 percent of  total income , up from 12
percent 11 years ago, according to the study.  The report said the EPA’s mercury and air toxics rule,
issued in December, would raise electricity costs, exacerbating
the strain from higher energy expenses.  The EPA’s first standards for mercury pollution from coal-
fired  power plants  set rules that environmental and health
groups say will lead to the biggest cuts to air pollution in two
decades.  EPA Estimates Disputed  The EPA has said the air toxics rule will cost utilities
about $9.6 billion to comply. The rule will save lives and
result in as much as $90 billion in annual benefits, the EPA
said.  The EPA estimates its mercury rule will increase
electricity costs about 3.1 percent. The coal group, in a
separate study, estimated the EPA rules might raise costs 10
percent to 19 percent at times of peak demand.  The coal study, which examined four income levels,
estimated energy will represent 78 percent of total spending for
the poorest families, or those earning less than $10,000 a year.  The estimate excluded payments from the federal and state
energy assistance programs, such as the Low Income Home Energy
Assistance Program.  Households  are eligible if their annual
income doesn’t exceed 150 percent of the poverty level or 60
percent of the state’s median income, whichever number is
higher, according to the program’s guidelines.  ‘More Vulnerable’  “Lower-income families are more vulnerable to energy costs
than higher-income families because energy represents a larger
portion of their household budgets,” according to the study,
which relied on Energy Information Administration data.  Energy costs this year will represent 24 percent of after-
tax income for families earning $10,000 to $30,000, up from 14
percent in 2001. Families with after-tax income from $30,000 to
$50,000 will spend 7 percent of their earnings on electricity,
according to the study.  Energy represents about 9 percent of budgets in households
that bring in more than $50,000, according to the study.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  