-- Tepco Injects Boric Acid Into Reactor as Temperatures Rise
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-02-07T03:18:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/tepco-injects-boric-acid-into-fukushima-no-2-reactor-as-temperature-rises.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co . injected
boric acid into a reactor at its crippled Fukushima nuclear
plant to prevent an accidental  chain reaction  known as re-
criticality after temperatures rose in the past week.  The temperature of the No. 2 reactor was 70.1 degrees
Celsius (158 degrees Fahrenheit) as of 6 a.m. today, according
to preliminary data, Akitsuka Kobayashi, a spokesman for the
utility, said by phone. The reading fell from 72.2 degrees at 5
a.m. this morning, and is below the 93 degrees that’s used to
define a cold shutdown, or safe state, of the reactor.  Since Feb. 1, temperatures at the bottom of the No. 2
reactor vessel have risen by more than 20 degrees Celsius,
according to the company’s  data . Tepco, as the utility is known,
and the government announced that the Fukushima plant reached a
cold shutdown on Dec. 16, nine months after the Tohoku
earthquake and tsunami wrecked the nuclear station, and caused
three reactors to meltdown and release radiation.  “It was too early to say the plant is safe in December.
They declared cold shutdown even though nobody is sure about the
location of melted fuel,” Tetsuo Ito, the head of the Atomic
Energy Research Institute at Kinki University in western  Japan .
“A similar incident will probably occur again.”  Tepco increased the rate of cooling water being injected
into the unit to 13.5 cubic meters per hour from 10.5 cubic
meters per hour at 4:24 a.m. today, it said. A cold shutdown
describes a reactor’s cooling system operating at atmospheric
pressure and below 93 degrees Celsius, according to the U.S.
Nuclear Regulatory Commission.  Dilemma  “Tepco is in a dilemma,” Ito said. As Tepco maintains
water injection at a high rate, more radioactive water will be
accumulated in the basements of plant buildings, he said.  About 95,000 cubic meters, which is enough to fill 38
Olympic-sized swimming pools, of highly radioactive water may
still be in the basements, even after the company has processed
more than 220,000 cubic meters of contaminated water, according
to Tepco’s latest  estimate  on Feb. 1.  Tepco replaced coolant piping on Jan. 26 to improve
reliability of equipment following water leaks caused by
freezing temperatures, Taichi Okazaki, a spokesman for the
utility, said by phone today. This may have led to insufficient
cooling water reaching inside the reactor, according to Tepco.  Water Leaks  Tepco found a total of 28 water leaks between Jan. 28 and
Feb. 3, according to the utility. The average temperature in
Namie town near the wrecked plant in January was 0.5 degrees
Celsius, compared with the 2.1 degrees Celsius January average
between 1981 and 2010, according to the  Japan Meteorological
Agency ’s data.  No traces of xenon 135, which is associated with nuclear
fission, were found when Tepco conducted a gas sampling of the
reactor yesterday, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  In November, Tepco said it detected xenon, signs of nuclear
fission, in gases taken from the No. 2 reactor, raising concerns
that radiation emissions may increase. Tepco later announced the
xenon was caused by “natural” nuclear fission and the plant
isn’t in a critical state.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  