-- Merkel Rejects Greek Euro Exit of ‘Incalculable’ Impact
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-02-07T20:29:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/merkel-rejects-greek-euro-exit-of-incalculable-impact-1-.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said
a Greek exit from the euro area would have an “incalculable”
impact as she restated her determination to keep the currency
union whole.  “Greece, from everything I know, won’t decide to leave the
euro,” Merkel said during a town-hall-style event with students
in Berlin today. “I don’t want Greece to leave the euro and
therefore the question doesn’t arise. It doesn’t require a
political response because it’s not something that’s on our
minds.”  To counter the debt crisis, Greece must overhaul its
economy because “there is no way around the reforms and
changes,” she said. Greece’s situation is “very complicated”
and its political leaders haven’t provided “the necessary
transparency yet.”  Merkel’s dual message of support and budgetary rigor comes
as Prime Minister Lucas Papademos haggles with the heads of
Greek political parties and international officials over the
terms for a second rescue package, seeking to avert a collapse
of the euro area’s most-indebted economy. At stake is whether
 Greece  wins the bailout, secures a debt write-off with private
creditors and remains in the euro region.  “I won’t take part in any effort to push Greece out of the
euro,” Merkel said. “It would have incalculable
consequences.”  Renewing a message she has conveyed for most of the crisis,
she said the turmoil that began in Greece in 2009 can’t be
solved “overnight.” Policy makers must tackle the root causes
of excessive debt and lagging competitiveness among the 17 euro
nations, she said in a speech before the debate.  Merkel renewed her rejection of joint euro-area bonds,
saying they would paper gaps in competitiveness. While financial
markets might welcome joint debt, it would threaten prosperity,
she said.  “My belief is that we have to take our cue from the best
in  Europe ,” she said. “Mediocrity isn’t enough” to compete in
the global economy  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  