-- Russians Huddle With Syria’s Assad as Europe Joins Gulf in Pulling Envoys
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-02-08T09:08:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/eu-gulf-countries-recall-ambassadors-to-syria-amid-bloodshed.html
Several European Union and Persian Gulf
countries recalled their ambassadors from Damascus, increasing
diplomatic isolation for Syrian President Bashar al-Assad as he
conferred with Russian officials on a way to resolve the crisis.  Assad asked  Russia  to broker talks with opposition groups,
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said yesterday after
meeting with the Syrian leader in Damascus. Assad assigned his
deputy, Farouk al-Sharaa, to lead the negotiations, Lavrov told
reporters in Moscow today.  “It’s clear that the efforts to end the violence must be
accompanied with the initiation of a dialogue among all
political forces,” Lavrov said, according to Russian state news
service Itar-Tass. “Today we received confirmation of the
Syrian president’s readiness to cooperate on this.”  Russia and  China  on Feb. 4 vetoed a United Nations Security
Council resolution by western and Arab countries to facilitate a
political transition. Assad thanked Lavrov for Russia’s position
at the UN and said he seeks a national dialogue “without
foreign interference,” according to the website of the state-
run Syrian Arab News Agency.  State Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  dismissed
Syria’s proposal to the Russian delegation as “the same offer
that Assad has been making for months and months and months.”  Shelling Resumes  The Syrian army resumed shelling residential districts in
the city of Homs, killing 43 people, Al Jazeera reported today,
citing unidentified Syrian activists. Five Syrian soldiers were
killed and two armored vehicles were destroyed in fighting in
Idlib in the north, the U.K.-based Syrian Observatory for Human
Rights said in an e-mailed statement today.  The prospect of civil war is growing, as the daily death
toll mounts. Assad is using tanks and artillery in cities where
protesters are calling for the end of his rule. At least 174
people were killed on Feb. 4, said the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights, making it one of the deadliest
days in the 11-month revolt.  Germany ,  Spain , Belgium and  France  announced withdrawal of
diplomats yesterday. The six members of the Gulf Cooperation
Council -- Bahrain,  Kuwait , Oman, Qatar,  Saudi Arabia  and the
United Arab Emirates -- also withdrew ambassadors from Damascus
and expelled Syrian ambassadors from their capitals.  EU Observer  The EU will keep its head of delegation in Damascus to
observe events “on the ground,” bloc spokesman Michael Mann
said. The U.S. suspended embassy operations in Damascus and
recalled Ambassador Robert Ford and the rest of the American
staff Feb. 6. The Polish embassy in Damascus will represent U.S.
interests in the country.  The veto by Russia and China was their second attempt to
block efforts at the UN to hold Assad accountable, citing
concern that the measure was aimed at regime change, as happened
in  Libya .  Syria ’s government has blamed “terrorists” and foreign
provocateurs for fomenting the protests and has rejected an Arab
League plan for Assad to transfer power to a deputy, who would
then begin talks with the opposition to form a unity government
within two months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  