-- European Stocks Drop Amid Greek Talks; BMW, LVMH, Swatch Slide
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-02-07T17:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-before-greek-talks-on-debt-curbs.html
European stocks  declined for a second
straight day as Greek talks on measures needed to get a second
bailout continued and China said  industrial-output  growth is
likely to slow.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Rio Tinto  Group led
carmakers and mining companies lower.  LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis
Vuitton SA (MC)  lost 2.6 percent after three Bulgari directors sold a
558 million-euro ($733 million) stake.  Swatch Group AG (UHR) , the
 world’s biggest watchmaker , sank 4 percent as profit trailed
projections.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  jumped 21 percent.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index declined 0.3 percent to 263.55
at the close of trading. The gauge has still  advanced 7.8
percent  this year amid optimism that the euro area will contain
its sovereign-debt crisis and that the economic recovery in the
U.S. remains intact.  “The Greek tragedy dominates the headlines,” Viola Stork,
an analyst at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt ,
wrote in a report today. “Unsuccessful consultations between
the local government and the parties on the necessary austerity
measures cause increasing fear of a default.”  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  is convening the
nation’s political leaders to seek consensus on the cuts
required for another European Union-led bailout. Officials are
working on the final draft of the document listing the budget
and structural measures required to receive international
funding, a government official said.  Further Cuts  Greek policy makers have already agreed to make further
cuts this year equal to 1.5 percent of gross domestic product,
but have yet to decide how to recapitalize banks, ensure the
viability of pension funds and reduce wages to increase the
economy’s competitiveness.  China ’s industrial output growth will probably slow this
quarter as the world economy cools and the euro area’s crisis
worsens, the Ministry of Industry and  Information Technology 
said today.  “The global economy is slowing down, Europe’s sovereign-
debt crisis is deepening and the downside risks to the world
economy are rising with international demand still slack and
global commodities and financial markets continuing to be
volatile,” the ministry said.  German  industrial output  unexpectedly dropped the most in
three years in December as Europe’s debt crisis weighed on
confidence and the global economic slowdown damped demand.
Production fell 2.9 percent from November, when it stagnated,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists had
expected output to remain unchanged, according to the median of
41 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey.  Automakers Fall  BMW , the world’s biggest maker of luxury cars, slid 2
percent to 69.36 euros, snapping a five-day advance, and  Renault
SA (RNO)  retreated 1 percent to 36.71 euros.  Rio Tinto, the world’s third-largest mining company, fell
1.9 percent to 3,869.5 pence and Eurasian Natural Resources
Corp. dropped 2.6 percent to 703 pence.  Automakers and mining companies were the two worst
performing groups among  19 industries  in the Stoxx 600 today.  LVMH retreated 2.6 percent to 125.30 euros after Paolo
Bulgari, Nicola Bulgari and Francesco Trapani sold 4.48 million
shares in the  world’s largest maker of luxury goods  at 124.50
euros apiece.  Swatch Sinks  Swatch declined 4 percent to 398.30 Swiss francs after
reporting 2011 operating profit of 1.61 billion francs ($1.75
billion), missing the average projection in a Bloomberg survey
of 1.67 billion francs. Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the owner
of the Cartier brand, fell 2.5 percent to 53.90 francs.  Luxury shares fell.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  lost 1.8 percent to
1,420 pence and  Christian Dior SA (CDI)  slid 3.5 percent to 110.45
euros.  Hermes International SCA , the French maker of Birkin bags
and silk scarves, dropped 2.9 percent to 268.75 euros.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the largest exporter of power-station coal,
retreated 4.9 percent to 1,200 pence. Glencore International Plc
slipped 3.8 percent to 443.25 pence after it agreed to buy the
company for 39.1 billion pounds ($62 billion) in the biggest
mining takeover.  Standard Life Investments Ltd. said it plans to vote
against the proposed merger, as it “clearly undervalues
Xstrata’s assets and future earnings contribution,” according
to  David Cumming , head of equities at Standard Life.  Lagardere Falls  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  sank 5.7 percent to 21.82 euros, the largest
decline in three months. The publisher said it will record
losses of about 900 million euros to reflect the lower value of
its sports-marketing and pay-television units.  Banco Comercial,  Portugal ’s second-biggest bank, rallied 21
percent to 17.6 euro cents, the largest gain since at least
1993.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  surged 9.5 percent to 1.48 euros.  Banco Comercial said on Feb. 3 it will sell new shares in a
capital increase and will draw on state funds available for
banks to boost their capital levels. The same day, the company
reported a full-year loss of 786.2 million euros.  “The uncertainty about the earnings that were presented
disappeared, and they weren’t as bad as was expected,” Pedro Oliveira, a trader at Go Bulling in Oporto, northern Portugal,
said today in a telephone interview. “The possibility of new
shareholders investing in the bank may also be supporting this
gain, although it seems excessive to me.”  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, gained 3.3
percent to 16.69 euros after reporting fourth-quarter earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of $1.71
billion, beating the average analyst estimate of $1.68 billion.
The company also forecast that first-half earnings will exceed
the previous six months.  Novo Nordisk A/S , the world’s biggest insulin maker,
increased 2.2 percent to 752.50 kroner, its highest price since
at least 1991, and  Shire Plc (SHP)  added 2.4 percent to 2,179 pence.
Keyur Parekh, an analyst at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said the
two companies are among the best positioned stocks in the
pharmaceutical industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  