-- EON’s Teyssen Urges Fix to ‘Bust’ EU CO2 Plan, Energy Rules
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-07T14:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/europe-s-emissions-trading-system-is-dead-eon-ceo-teyssen-says.html
The European Union needs to fix its
“bust” emissions cap-and-trade program, the world’s largest,
and improve existing energy rules after investors lost trust in
the EU’s policies, said  EON AG ’s chief executive officer.  “Ladies and gentlemen, let’s talk real: the ETS is bust,
it’s dead,” EON’s Johannes Teyssen said. The call from the CEO
of  Germany ’s biggest utility to “start fixing the ETS” comes
after EU carbon prices tumbled to a four-year low in January
because of the economic crisis and concerns that planned new
 energy efficiency  measures will further curb demand for emission
permits.  “Does the price give any signal for new investments? No.
None,” Teyssen said. “I don’t know a single person in the
world that would invest a dime based on ETS signals.”  As EU regulators and national governments discuss scenarios
for the energy industry to achieve the 27-nation bloc’s long-
term goal of reducing  greenhouse gases  by at least 80 percent in
2050, they should ensure the measures already in place,
including the Emissions Trading System, renewable energy and
plans for internal gas and power markets, are effective and
consistent, Teyssen told a conference in Brussels.  Started in 2005, the EU cap-and-trade program is the
cornerstone of the bloc’s carbon-reduction policy. It imposes
pollution limits on more than 11,000 manufacturers and utilities
in the region, allowing those who discharge less carbon dioxide
to sell their surplus allowances. The system expanded this year
to include flights to and from  Europe .  Excess of Permits  Carbon permits for December 2012 delivery lost as much as
1.3 percent to 8.59 euros a metric ton on  London ’s ICE Futures
Europe Exchange today. The contract has dropped 43 percent from
a year ago amid speculation that the excess of permits, whose
supply was set by  member states  before the crisis started, will
weigh on the market in the coming years.  Analysts at Bloomberg New Energy Finance predict that the
ETS will be oversupplied by about 1.1 billion metric tons in the
current trading period from 2008 to 2012. This surplus may be
transferred, or “banked,” into the next phase from 2013 to
2020, when governments will auction more permits instead of
giving them to companies for free.  “Fix it or abate it,” Teyssen said during the conference
on the Energy Roadmap 2050, a strategy paper by the European
Commission to map the way to low-carbon goals in the  energy
industry .  Sunday Speeches  “Don’t continue to deliver Sunday speeches on this great
backbone of energy transformation which is not even an efficient
means to collect taxes anymore,” he said. “If you look at
national budgets, what the governments expected in 2013, money
is gone. Not even the money collection happens anymore.”  Any measure to curb the oversupply of allowances in the ETS
in order to support the price would have to be formally proposed
by the commission, the EU regulatory arm, and backed by national
governments, which remain divided over the need for more
stringent climate policies. The bloc has to consider how to
strengthen the emissions trading program, the Climate
Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said today.  The carbon cap-and-trade program can “co-exist” with
rules to boost energy efficiency and the commission is following
closely a debate in the European Parliament on the draft energy
savings law, she told the conference.  Proposed modifications to the directive include a plan
backed by the Parliament’s environment committee to set aside a
“significant” number of permits as of 2013. The industry
committee is set to vote on the draft amendment on Feb. 28.  New Targets  EU energy ministers are due to met later this month and
environment ministers are set to gather in March to discuss
strategies linked to the region’s carbon-reduction plans until
2050. Environment groups have called on the governments to agree
to deepen the region’s emissions-cut goal from the current 20
percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels to help boost carbon
prices and incentivize investment in clean energy.  “It’s time not just to talk about new targets for 2020 and
beyond, it’s time to fix the world today because otherwise new
targets beyond 2020 may be very little meaningful,” Teyssen
said. “If governments were treating the euro the same way that
we all treat the ETS it’d be dead tomorrow morning.”  He also called on the EU to work toward an internal gas and
power market. The commission has said delays in breaking down
lingering national barriers may put at risk the bloc’s goal to
complete the integration by 2014.  The EU should improve its measures and ensure “coherent
and consistent” laws to promote the use of renewable energy,
which is projected in the Energy Roadmap to play an increasingly
important role in the bloc, according to Teyssen.  “I share the target, I share the goal, but I distinctly
disagree that the national governments and the commission are so
silently accepting that things deviate and talk about new
systems instead of fixing the old ones,” he said. “We don’t
need more regulation, we need you here in Brussels to fix the
old ones.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 