-- Levene Says U.K. Banks Should Return to Basics, Serve Customers
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-07T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/levene-says-u-k-banks-should-return-to-basics-serve-customers.html
NBNK Investments Plc  Chairman  Peter Levene  said banks need to get their “priorities right” by
serving customers rather than each other.  Meanwhile, politicians and the media should “remove a lot
of the present hysteria,” Levene said, according to the text of
a speech to the annual Worshipful Company of International
Bankers dinner in  London  which was made available to journalists
before delivery.  “If we examine the business model of many of the largest
financial institutions operating today in the U.K., you will
find that a large part of their operations are concerned with
trading with each other in products that operate virtually in a
closed loop and are not relevant in the wider economy,” Levene,
70, said in the text. They should get “back to basics,” Levene
said.  The financial industry has become embroiled in a “media
assault” centered on remuneration and should henceforth
concentrate on “constructive” banking and helping to fix the
economy, Levene said.  As banks enter the annual bonus season, they’ve been on the
receiving end of a public backlash.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said on Jan. 29 he’d
give up his 963,000-pound ($1.5 million) bonus after Labour
leader  Ed Miliband  called for a Parliamentary vote on the issue.
Two days later, Hester’s predecessor,  Fred Goodwin , was stripped
of a knighthood awarded in 2004 for “services to banking”
because of his role in leading RBS into the world’s biggest
bailout.  NBNK is an investment vehicle created by former Lloyd’s of
London Chairman Levene last year. It missed out to Co-Operative
Bank Plc in December on the 632 branches that Lloyds Banking
Group Plc is selling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  