-- Gupta Wasn’t Rajaratnam’s Only Goldman ‘Insider,’ U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-08T18:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/ex-goldman-sachs-director-gupta-s-trial-set-for-may-after-new-arraignment.html
A second “insider” at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  allegedly leaked tips to hedge fund manager  Raj Rajaratnam , U.S. prosecutors told the judge presiding over the
case of former Goldman Sachs director  Rajat Gupta .  The government’s disclosure about another Goldman Sachs
tipster for Rajaratnam, who was convicted of insider trading in
May, came during yesterday’s arraignment of Gupta on revised
insider-trading charges that broaden the scope of the alleged
conspiracy. Gupta, 63, pleaded not guilty.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  submitted a Feb. 3
letter to the court describing “certain witness statements
relating to an insider at Goldman Sachs & Co. who provided
information to Raj Rajaratnam that did not relate to Goldman
and/or  Procter & Gamble .”  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan , who is
overseeing Gupta’s case, told lawyers yesterday that he reviewed
the statements in the Feb. 3 letter and agreed with prosecutors
to keep them under seal because the alleged tips weren’t related
to any of the charges against Gupta.  “They have nothing to do with any issue in this case,
directly or indirectly, and therefore do not need to be
disclosed,” Rakoff said.  Goldman Sachs Earnings  Gupta, the one-time McKinsey & Co. leader and former
director at  Procter & Gamble Co ., was accused in October by
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara of passing inside
information to Rajaratnam, co-founder Galleon Group LLC. The
U.S. says Gupta tipped Rajaratnam about Goldman Sachs and P&G
earnings.  The revised indictment expanded prosecutors’ description of
the  insider-trading  scheme, saying it began in March 2007, not
in 2008, as the U.S. alleged when Gupta was first charged in
October.  Gupta’s lawyer,  Gary Naftalis , has asked the government to
share any evidence that Rajaratnam had an inside source at
Goldman Sachs other than his client.  The defense lawyer said he’s seeking the evidence to show
at the trial that the other source is the culprit, not Gupta.
Rakoff also pressed prosecutors to name the purported source,
whom he called “Mr. X.”  ‘Exculpatory Information’  The existence of a second Goldman Sachs tipster constitutes
“real exculpatory information for a real defense that the
source of any information here is not us but somebody else,”
Naftalis argued at a Jan. 20 hearing before Rakoff.  David Wells , a spokesman for Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment yesterday on the government’s letter to the court.
Naftalis declined to comment on yesterday’s hearing after court.  Rakoff yesterday granted a request by Gupta’s lawyers to
delay the trial until May 21 from an April 9 trial date the
judge set last year.  Also yesterday, Brodsky told Rakoff that the government may
seek to file yet another indictment adding new allegations that
Gupta passed tips. Rakoff denied that request.  “The investigation continues,” Brodsky said. “We hope to
get more time to get more charges against Mr. Gupta.”  ‘Cows Come Home’  Naftalis objected to prosecutors adding new allegations.  “What the government is doing here now is wildly expanding
what everybody in the world believed the case to be about,” he
said. “I really think it’s quite unfair. They can investigate
my client ‘til the cows come home.”  The judge told prosecutors he won’t allow them to file any
additional charges against Gupta. He also said that with six
additional weeks to get ready for trial, no further delays will
be allowed, “barring an act of God.”  Gupta’s lawyers are scheduled to return to court on Feb. 16
for a joint hearing with prosecutors and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. At issue is whether the SEC, which sued
Gupta in October on the same day his indictment was unsealed,
must surrender to Gupta documents that defense lawyers claim may
help establish his innocence.  Gupta now faces six counts of  securities fraud  and one
count of conspiracy. In the new indictment, prosecutors added a
charge based on a March 12, 2007, conference call in which
people discussed Goldman Sachs’s pending earnings announcement.
Gupta tipped Rajaratnam after listening to a Goldman Sachs board
meeting while at Galleon’s offices, the U.S. said.  Other Acts  Prosecutors said that while the judge won’t allow them to
further revise their indictment, they may still seek to
introduce evidence at Gupta’s trial of other acts of alleged
wrongdoing.  Gupta faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
any of the securities fraud charges and as long as five years if
convicted of conspiracy. He also faces a fine of as much as $5
million, prosecutors said.  Prosecutors said Gupta’s investments with Rajaratnam -- $10
million and an ownership stake in at least two funds -- gave him
the motive to engage in insider trading.  Rajaratnam, who was convicted by a jury last year of all 14
counts against him, is serving an 11-year prison term.  The case is U.S. v. Gupta, 11-cr-00907, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  