-- Ex-Penn State Assistant Sandusky Seeks Medical Data on Alleged Victims
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-07T21:36:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/ex-penn-state-coach-sandusky-seeks-medical-evaluations-on-abuse-victims.html
Former  Pennsylvania  State University
assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky is seeking psychiatric
evaluations and medical records for several accusers in the
sexual abuse case against him.  Lawyers for Sandusky filed a request for the early release
of grand jury testimony as well as non-redacted copies of
medical information on at least three alleged victims named in a
grand jury report, according to papers filed in state court in
Bellefonte, Pennsylvania. A hearing is scheduled for Feb. 10 on
Sandusky’s request to modify his bail terms and on the state’s
motion for an out-of-county jury.  Sandusky, 68, a former defensive coordinator for  Penn
State , is charged with more than 40 counts stemming from the
alleged sexual abuse of 10 boys. He waived a preliminary hearing
in December, and prosecutors said his case will proceed to
trial.  In addition, Sandusky’s lawyers requested non-redacted
copies of the state’s interviews with former Penn State coach
 Joe Paterno  and with a former assistant district attorney for
Centre County. Paterno died last month.  The defense lawyers also asked for photographs from
Sandusky’s Second Mile charity and phone numbers for the
accusers. They are seeking copies of polygraph tests and the
identities of people who came forward as potential victims and
were ruled out.  Not ‘Consistent’  The requested material contains information that will show
the accusers’ allegations “have not been consistent or
truthful,” Joseph Amendola, an attorney for Sandusky, said in
the filing.  Sandusky, who is under home confinement, asked the court
last month to amend his bail conditions. He’s seeking permission
to have supervised visits with his grandchildren in his home and
to leave his residence to assist his attorneys in locating
potential defense witnesses.  In a separate filing today, prosecutors asked the court to
alter Sandusky’s bail terms to prevent him from leaving the
confines of his home without his supervising electronic-
monitoring officer.  The state also asked the court to deny his request for
visits with his grandchildren, saying that the wife of
Sandusky’s son Matthew Sandusky “strenuously” objects to her
three children having contact with the former coach. Prosecutors
cited concerns for the safety of children from an elementary
school adjacent to Sandusky’s house.  Sandusky “should be in jail,” prosecutors said in the
filing. “He has been granted the privilege of being confined in
his own home. House arrest is not meant to be a house party.”  It is unclear whether Sandusky will attend the court
hearing later this week, Amendola said today in an e-mail.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Sandusky,
CP-14-2422-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Centre County,
Pennsylvania (Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 