-- Finra Examines CDs Tied to Derivatives as Sales Surge to Record
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-02-07T18:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/finra-examines-cds-tied-to-derivatives-as-banks-increase-sales-to-a-record.html
The Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority  is examining sales of certificates of deposit tied to
derivatives after banks sold a record number of the investments
last year.  The industry-backed regulator wants to make sure the so-
called structured CDs, where principal is protected by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., are properly understood by
investors given their increasing complexity and lengthening
maturities, said Maria Rabinovich, a lawyer in Finra’s risk
division. Rabinovich, who spoke yesterday after a session on
structured product law and regulation at  Morrison & Foerster
LLP ’s office in  New York , declined to comment further.  The watchdog issued an alert on “ complex products ” in
January, without referring to the CDs. The notice avoided
defining what constitutes such products, while outlining a few
examples, such as those where information is not readily
available about the assets they’re tied to, and so-called
“steepeners,” which typically bet on the shape of the Treasury
yield curve.  Demand for derivative-linked certificates of deposit has
risen as the  Federal Reserve  holds  interest rates  below 0.25
percent for the third straight year. Yields on five-year, fixed-
rate CDs have declined to 1.55 percent, the lowest level since
at least June 1998, according to  data  from Bankrate.com.  Banks sold a record 1,271 of the investments in the U.S.
last year, according to StructuredRetailProducts.com, a database
used by the industry. Statistics on total volume are incomplete
because banks aren’t required to register issuance with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and the FDIC doesn’t track
the products separately.  24% Annually  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  offered a four-year CD linked to
the monthly returns of the Dow Jones Industrial average in
December that returns as much as 24 percent a year. The Dow
would have to gain at least 2 percent each month over the CD’s
life for the maximum payout, according to an offering statement.
Investors are guaranteed an annual yield of 0.5 percent, an
amount less than the average 0.77 percent rate paid by one-year
certificates of deposits, according to Bankrate.com.  Derivatives are contracts whose value is derived from
stocks, bonds, currencies and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 