-- Fourteen Hospitals Reach $12 Million False Claims Accord
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-02-07T22:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/fourteen-hospitals-reach-12-million-false-claims-accord-1-.html
Fourteen hospitals in  New York  and
six other states agreed to pay more than $12 million in total to
settle allegations that they submitted false claims to Medicare,
the U.S. Justice Department said.  Four hospitals affiliated with  Adventist Health
System/Sunbelt Inc.  in  Florida  will pay the largest sum, $3.9
million, according to an e-mailed statement today by the Justice
Department. Plainview Hospital in Plainview, New York, will pay
$2.3 million, the largest single hospital payment, the agency
said.  The settlement resolves civil claims that the hospitals
overcharged Medicare for eight years starting in 2000 for the
cost of performing kyphoplasty procedures, which treat spinal
fractures due to osteoporosis. In total, more than 40 hospitals
have paid at least $39 million to settle such overbilling
claims, the  Justice Department  said.  “By recovering taxpayer dollars lost to improper billing,
this settlement will help support the vital public health care
programs we depend on,” Assistant Attorney General  Tony West 
said in the statement.  Plainview Hospital, which is part of the North Shore-Long
Island Jewish Health System, said in a statement that the
dispute concerned “technical billing allegations,” and it
denied violating the law.  ‘Significant Costs’  “Settlement without any admission of liability avoids the
significant costs and distraction of litigation against the
government,” the hospital said.  The settlements follow a 2008 whistle-blower lawsuit
brought under the False Claims Act by two men who had worked for
 Kyphon Inc. , a maker of surgical equipment. The men, a former
regional sales manager and an ex-reimbursement manager, will
collect a total $2.1 million from the settlements.  The U.S.  False Claims Act  permits whistle-blowers to sue on
behalf of the government and to share in any recovery.  Kyphon’s successor company, Medtronic Spine LLC, paid $75
million in 2008 for defrauding Medicare, the Justice Department
said.  Representatives of Adventist Health System didn’t
immediately respond to phone calls seeking comment on the
settlement.  To contact the reporters on this story: Laurence Viele
Davidson in Atlanta at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net  and Greg Chang at 
 gchang1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 