-- Four Accused of Running Insiders’ ‘Criminal Club’ Indicted
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-07T20:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/four-accused-of-running-insiders-criminal-club-indicted-in-manhattan.html
Four men arrested last month for
allegedly participating in a “criminal club” of inside traders
that reaped almost $62 million from Dell Inc. shares were
indicted by a federal grand jury in  Manhattan .  One trade earned a $53 million illegal windfall for Level
Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and his fund,
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara alleged. The ring, which
involved five  hedge funds  and investment firms, is the largest
identified by the U.S. to date tied to a single stock, federal
authorities said.  Chiasson;  Todd Newman , a portfolio manager formerly at
Diamondback Capital Management LLC; Jon Horvath, an analyst at
Connecticut-based hedge fund Sigma Capital Management LLC; and
Danny Kuo, a  fund manager  for Whittier Trust Co. in South
Pasadena,  California , were all named today in an indictment
filed in federal court in New York.  All four men were charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud . Newman was charged with three counts of
securities fraud and Chiasson with four counts of securities
fraud. Horvath and Kuo were additionally charged with one count
of securities fraud. All four were arrested Jan. 18.  Illegal profits earned from the scheme were almost of the
same “magnitude of fraud we proved in the Galleon Group insider
trading scheme,” Bharara said.  ‘Perfect Hedge’  A five-year insider-trading probe by Bharara’s office and
the Federal Bureau of Investigation in New York called “Perfect
Hedge” has resulted in charges against 63 people, said Janice Fedarcyk, head of the FBI’s New York office.  More than 50 have pleaded guilty or been convicted after
trial since 2009, including Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is serving an 11-year prison sentence.  Three men who were charged in the scheme to illegally trade
in Dell stock have pleaded guilty and are cooperating with the
U.S. -- Jesse Tortora, formerly of Diamondback; Spyridon “Sam”
Adondakis, a Level Global analyst; and Sandeep Goyal, a former
employee at Round Rock, Texas-based Dell, according to Bharara
and court records.  After a federal grand jury returned the indictment today,
the case was assigned to U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan.
Last year, Sullivan presided over the trial of ex-Galleon Group
LLC trader  Zvi Goffer , his brother Emanuel Goffer and Michael
Kimelman.  Sullivan sentenced Zvi Goffer to 10 years in prison,
saying, “Anything less than that would send the wrong
message.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-121, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Adondakis,
12-409, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  