-- Yahoo Names Two to Board as Four Leave
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-07T23:17:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/four-yahoo-directors-step-aside.html
Yahoo! Inc. , a month after hiring
 Scott Thompson  as chief executive officer, added two directors
and announced the departure of Chairman Roy Bostock and three
others in a board shakeup aimed at spurring a turnaround.  Alfred Amoroso, a former International Business Machines
Corp. executive who ran  Rovi Corp. (ROVI)  until last year, and Maynard Webb,  EBay Inc. (EBAY) ’s ex-chief operating officer, will join the
board, Yahoo said today in a statement. Bostock, Gary Wilson,
Arthur Kern and Vyomesh Joshi, meanwhile, won’t stand for re-
election as directors.  Yahoo, the biggest U.S. Web portal, has faced mounting
pressure from shareholders to revamp management following years
of declining sales and market-share losses to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and
Facebook Inc. The company, in the midst of a strategic review,
said today it has weighed proposals for equity investments yet
hasn’t received an attractive offer. It continues to discuss a
possible sale of its holdings in Asian assets, including  Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd.   “Yahoo shareholders are happy to see change at the
board,” said  Clayton Moran , analyst at Benchmark Co. in Delray
Beach,  Florida , who has a “hold” rating on Yahoo. “But it
also may signal that the Asian asset sales haven’t made
meaningful progress. You’re replacing several board members in
the middle of very important negotiations.”  Talks Continue  The company said it is devoting “significant resources to
these discussions.” Yahoo has minority stakes in Yahoo  Japan 
and Alibaba, the biggest e-commerce company in  China .  At the same time, Yahoo is searching for more independent
directors, an effort being led by board member Patti Hart, CEO
of International Game Technology Inc. Yahoo didn’t name a
chairman to replace Bostock.  Following this year’s annual meeting, most of Yahoo’s
directors will be new to the board and all of them will have
joined since 2010, Yahoo said. “We believe that this
reconfigured board, with a fresh set of perspectives and diverse
set of skills, will enable the company to move forward even more
aggressively.”  Amoroso was CEO of  Rovi , a provider of digital home-
entertainment products, through the end of 2011. He had been
head of  Rovi  and predecessor companies since July 2005. Amoroso
was also CEO of META Group Inc. and CrossWorlds Software Inc.,
and he was a member of IBM’s worldwide management committee.  Gateway Veteran  Webb has been chairman of  LiveOps Inc. , a provider of call-
center technology, since 2006 and served as CEO of the  Santa
Clara , California-based company from late 2006 through July
2011. Webb also was a senior vice president and chief
information officer at Gateway Inc.  Bostock’s tenure as chairman was tainted by market-share and
stock-price declines, management upheaval, and the rejection of
a $47.5 billion takeover bid from  Microsoft Corp.  in 2008.
Yahoo’s market value is now $19.6 billion, less than half the
offer price.  While  Jerry Yang , a Yahoo co-founder and then CEO, handled
much of the negotiations with Microsoft, it was Bostock who co-
signed a letter announcing that takeover talks were over. The
company said the Microsoft’s bid was “not in the best interests
of Yahoo stockholders.”  Third Point Clash  Yahoo investor  Third Point  LLC ramped up pressure on the
company’s board last September, when the firm increased its
stake and reiterated a demand that Bostock step down.  Daniel Loeb , CEO of Third Point, said he told Bostock and Yang in a
phone conversation that he planned to “pursue whatever efforts
were necessary to remove Mr. Bostock from the board,” according
to a filing. The dialogue ended when “Bostock terminated the
call,” Loeb said.  Bostock’s departure follows that of Yang, who resigned 
from the board and all other positions at the company last
month. Thompson, the new CEO, joins from  EBay , where he served
as president of the company’s PayPal unit.  “The more of the men who turned down the Microsoft deal
leave, the better a chance is we get an Asian deal done
faster,” said  Laura Martin , an analyst at Needham & Co. in
Pasadena,  California . She recommends buying the shares, which
she doesn’t own herself.  The year after the failed Microsoft takeover, Yahoo brought
in  Carol Bartz  as CEO to help drive a turnaround. When she
struggled to revive revenue and Yahoo’s stock price, Bostock
fired her by phone on Sept. 6.  Advertising Career  While he drew flak at Yahoo, Bostock had success as
chairman of Northwest Airlines, guiding it in 2008 through a
$2.75 billion merger with  Delta Air Lines Inc.   Bostock became a Yahoo director in 2003, after a 38-year
career in advertising. He sold BCom3 Group, the global ad agency
where he was chairman, to Publicis Group in 2002 for $3 billion.
Outside the corporate world, he’s served as chairman emeritus at
the Partnership at Drugfree.org and has donated money to  Duke
University , his alma mater, where a library is named after him.  “We all take pride in the fact that we are positioning
Yahoo for success in the future,” Bostock said in the
statement. “I have every expectation that under Scott’s
leadership, working together with the reconstituted board, the
company will thrive for many years to come.”  Shares of Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo rose less than
1 percent to $15.83 at the close in  New York .  The stock  has
dropped 1.9 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  