-- French Trade Gap Swelled to Record in 2011
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-02-07T11:39:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/france-s-trade-gap-widens-to-record.html
France ’s  trade deficit  widened to a
record in 2011, underlining a drop in competitiveness that
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  wants to counter with a cut in
corporate payroll taxes.  The  shortfall swelled  to 69.6 billion euros ($91 billion)
last year from 51.5 billion euros in 2010, the trade ministry in
Paris said today. Exports climbed to 8.6 percent to 429 billion
euros, outpaced by a 12 percent increase in imports to 498
billion euros.  As the euro-area crisis enters its third year, and with a
presidential election less than three months away, the deficit
has become a political issue as a symbol of France’s decline.
Sarkozy wants to raise the nation’s sales tax rate to finance a
cut in payroll levies that he says penalize industry. Socialist
candidate  Francois Hollande  instead wants to create a public
investment bank to finance research and development.  “France’s trade deficit has been deteriorating for a
decade, and it’s about competitiveness, it’s obvious,” said
Michel Martinez, an economist at Societe Generale SA in Paris.
Whoever wins the election needs “to address this.”  External trade created a drag of 0.3 percentage points on
French  gross-domestic-product  growth last year, the trade
ministry said. The 2011 deficit represents about 3.5 percent of
output, according to estimates from BNP Paribas.  Market Share  France has suffered a trade deficit every year since 2002.
The ministry estimates that the nation’s share of global trade
has declined against its European neighbors, as well as other
developed countries including Japan and the U.S.  Between 2000 and 2010, German manufactured exports rose 126
percent, according to data from the  World Trade Organization .
France’s 50 percent increase in exports undershot  Italy ’s 72
percent gain.  “The market share we’ve lost over the past 10 years has
been lost to Europeans,” Trade Minister Pierre Lellouche told
journalists today in Paris. “The problem is at home, it’s not
abroad. It’s up to us to do reforms.”  About 61 percent of French exports went to the European
Union last year, compared with 12 percent to  Asia  and 9 percent
to the Americas. Germany bought 17 percent of French exports.  In addition to the trade deficit, Sarkozy has presided over
increasing unemployment, a surge in the national debt and the
loss of the nation’s AAA credit rating during his five years in
office.  Election Fight  The first round of the presidential election will take
place on April 22, followed by a second and decisive round on
May 6. Hollande had support of 59 percent of voters, compared
with 41 percent for Sarkozy, according to an Ipsos-Logica
Business Consulting poll asking respondents how they would vote
if both candidates get through to the second round.  Sarkozy “has a clear and cold view of his term in office:
the loss of jobs in industry and the rise of unemployment,”
Bernard Cazeneuve, a spokesman for the Hollande campaign, said
Jan. 29 after Sarkozy announced the sales-tax increase. The
problem is “all the solutions that he’s proposing he has
already tried and so far their result has been calamitous.”  Lellouche, the trade minister, said today that a turnaround
takes time and that an increase in exports to emerging market
countries and halt in the decline in the number of French
exporting companies suggest the situation is stabilizing.  “ Germany  is in surplus today because it began work 12
years ago,” he said. “These are subjects that haven’t been
looked at in France since” presidents such as  Charles de Gaulle 
and Georges Pompidou were in office.  German Output  Nevertheless, data today showed German industrial output
unexpectedly dropped the most in three years in December as the
debt crisis weighed on confidence and the global economic
slowdown damped demand.  Among its trading partners, France’s deficit was biggest
with  China  at 27 billion euros.  “This is not sustainable in the long term,” Lellouche
said. “I can tell you that when I meet my Chinese counterparts,
the discussion is animated; that’s because we have problems
there.”  In the U.S., an index of  economic optimism  probably rose to
48.6 this month from 47.5 in January, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists before the release by Investors Business
Daily and TechnoMetrica Market Intelligence. A reading below 50
signals a negative outlook.  In  Australia , the central bank today unexpectedly kept
 interest rates  unchanged as two cuts late last year help the
economy weather  Europe ’s debt crisis, sending the nation’s
currency soaring to a six-month high.  Elsewhere in Asia, the Indian government said economic
growth probably slowed to 6.9 percent in the year through March
from 8.4 percent in 2010-2011. The forecast is less than the 7
percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 15
economists.  In China, stocks fell after the country’s Ministry of
Industry and  Information Technology  said industrial output
growth is likely to slow this quarter as the world economy cools
and Europe’s debt crisis worsens. The Shanghai Composite Index
tumbled 1.7 percent at the close today.  Taiwan ’s  exports  fell for the first time in more than two
years in January, according to a separate report. Shipments
abroad declined 16.8 percent from a year earlier, compared with
a 0.6 percent gain in December, the Ministry of Finance said in
Taipei today. The median of 11 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 17 percent drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  