-- Freud’s Obese Nudes Star in London Portrait Show: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-02-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/freud-s-obese-nudes-star-in-london-portrait-show-martin-gayford.html
Sometimes, only after an artist has
died can you see their work as a whole. That’s certainly the
case with  Lucian Freud .  Six months after his death last July comes a magnificent
exhibition, “Lucian Freud Portraits,” at the  National Portrait
Gallery  in London. Finally, the entire trajectory of his epic
career is clear.  It turns out that, appropriately enough for such an unusual
man and artist, his life had a highly idiosyncratic trajectory.
Freud, who was born in 1922, was both a brilliantly precocious
youth and a late bloomer. As you walk through this
retrospective, it becomes clear that he carried on gaining power
as a painter well into old age.  The first work in the exhibition is dated 1940, the last
was left not quite finished on his easel. His achievement was --
simply in terms of stamina -- tremendous: seven decades of
intense looking and translating what he saw into brush strokes
on canvas and marks on paper.  Much more than sheer application was involved. From his
youth, Freud possessed a unique sensibility, a way of looking at
people and the world around him with greater intimacy and
intensity than others had. He seemed able to depict a face or a
body as if no one had done so before, and reveal fresh textures,
surfaces and forms in the most familiar sights.  Technical Nudes  The limitation of the show to portraits is a minor
restriction in Freud’s case since he defined portraiture
broadly. A nude was, in his view, a “naked portrait.” Whether
a sitter was wearing clothes or not was a mere “technicality.”  This selection excludes his occasional animal, still life,
and urban-landscape subjects, which you could argue were also
portraits of a sort, since Freud was capable of finding
individuality in a floorboard or an egg. Still, the focus on
human models gives a sweep and clarity to the whole.  There are wonderful images scattered throughout. In a way,
Freud never did anything better than his drawing of the artist
Christian Berard of 1948, flabby, muffled in his dressing gown.
The wary, thoughtful face of his second wife Caroline Blackwood
is unforgettable in “Girl in Bed” (1952), as is the collapsed
despair of the artist John Minton from the same year.  Every decade brought its masterpieces: the rubicund,
melancholy features of the bohemian Soho photographer, John
Deacon (1962-64) and the lined forehead of Frank Auerbach (1975-
76), an emblem for that painter’s determination and intellectual
power.  Extra Large  In the early 1990s, as Freud passed 70, his work seemed to
go up a notch in scale and ambition. His pictures of the
performance artist Leigh Bowery were remarkable; even more so
were the ones of his next regular model, Sue Tilley, such as
“Benefits Supervisor Sleeping” (1995). Her XL body was the
starting point for some of the most forceful representations of
human weight and volume in the history of art.  That was a high point, yet Freud’s ability to convey the
qualities of human flesh in oil paint seemed only to increase as
he approached 80 in his later nudes and such pictures as his
unsparing investigation of his own aging, “Self-Portrait,
Reflection” (2002).  In the last gallery, I had the odd experience of
encountering my younger self in a portrait of 2004, which is
looking hard across the room at  David Hockney  (2002). The final
picture, “Portrait of the Hound” -- a nude of Freud’s
assistant David Dawson with his dog -- gives the impression that
the artist was not so much fading away as suddenly departing in
mid-flow, which is what happened.  “Lucian Freud Portraits” opens Feb. 9 at the  National
Portrait Gallery , London, and runs through May 28. The
exhibition is sponsored by Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Information:  http://www.npg.org.uk .  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “Man
With a Blue Scarf: On Sitting for a Portrait by Lucian Freud.”
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford in  London  at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com  or
 http://twitter.com/martingayford .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 