-- U.K. Stocks Are Little Changed as Xstrata, Rio Tinto, GlaxoSmithKline Fall
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-02-07T17:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/ftse-100-stocks-drop-a-second-day-as-investors-await-greek-austerity-talks.html
U.K. stocks  were little changed as
investors waited for Greece’s politicians to agree on spending
cuts to secure further financial aid and  China  said its
industrial-output growth may slow.  Commodity companies led declining shares, with  Xstrata Plc (XTA) 
falling 4.9 percent and  Rio Tinto  sliding 1.9 percent.
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  dropped 1 percent after reporting sales that
missed analysts’ estimates.  Shire Plc (SHP)  gained 2.4 percent as
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised buying the shares.  Aminex Plc (AEX) 
plunged 37 percent in Dublin trading, the most since October.  The  FTSE 100  Index slipped less than 0.1 percent to
5,890.26 at the close in London, even as a report showed German
industrial output unexpectedly fell in December. The benchmark
measure has still  rallied 19 percent  from last year’s lowest
level. The FTSE All-Share Index lost 0.1 percent today, while
Ireland’s ISEQ Index declined 0.6 percent.  “It’s mostly the miners that are a big drag on the FTSE,”
said Joshua Raymond, chief market strategist at City Index Ltd.
in London. “There’s a look towards what’s happening in  Greece .
Also, the German industrial output missed quite badly, so that’s
taking a little bit more wind out of the market.”  Greece’s prime minister,  Lucas Papademos , plans to meet the
leaders of the three political parties that support his
government to win their backing to cut spending. German
Chancellor Angela Merkel said yesterday “time is running out”
for Greece.  German Economy  German industrial  output  unexpectedly dropped the most in
three years in December, the country’s Economy Ministry said.  A  gauge  of mining shares sank 1.9 percent as copper
declined for a second day on the London Metal Exchange after
China said its production growth may slow.  “The global economy is slowing down,  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis is deepening and the downside risks to the world
economy are rising with international demand still slack and
global commodities and financial markets continuing to be
volatile,” China’s Ministry of Industry and Information
Technology said.  Xstrata fell 4.9 percent to 1,200 pence as Glencore
International Plc agreed to buy it for about 26 billion pounds
($41 billion) in shares.  Glencore, Xstrata  Glencore, which already owns 34 percent of Xstrata, offered
2.8 new shares for each one held in the Zug, Switzerland-based
coal exporter. Xstrata surged 16 percent last week as the two
companies were said to be nearing an agreement to combine.  Standard Life Investments Ltd. and Schroders Plc, with a
combined 3.5 percent stake in Xstrata, plan to oppose the deal.  Rio Tinto lost 1.9 percent to 3,869.5 pence, while  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  dropped 0.9 percent to 2,180 pence.  Glaxo, the U.K.’s largest drugmaker, fell 1 percent to
1,406 pence. The company reported fourth-quarter sales that
missed analysts’ estimates and announced a smaller share-buyback
plan than last year. Glaxo said it will buy back 1 billion to 2
billion pounds in stock this year and will use the proceeds from
a sale of consumer brands to boost its dividend.  Burberry, Shire  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , the U.K.’s largest luxury-goods maker,
declined 1.8 percent to 1,420 pence. U.K. retailers had their
second-worst January on record as the weaker economic outlook
prompted consumers to curtail spending, the  British Retail
Consortium  said.  Shire gained 2.4 percent to 2,179 pence. Goldman reiterated
its “conviction buy” rating on the stock. Separately, U.K.
newspapers reported renewed speculation about a possible bid for
the drugmaker.  TalkTalk Telecom Group Plc (TALK) , the U.K. broadband provider
split off from Carphone Warehouse Group Plc, surged 11 percent
to 131.5 pence, its highest price since at least March 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company raised its
earnings forecast after selling more expensive services.  In Dublin, Aminex, an Irish oil and gas explorer with
operations in Africa, fell 37 percent to 4 euro cents after
saying it is determining whether to drill at the Ntorya-1
exploration well in Tanzania.  “The targeted sandstone intervals were not encountered at
the prognosed depths between 1,800 and 1,900 meters,” the
company said today. “Further drilling found sandstone intervals
along with traces of gas below 2,300 meters.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  