-- Fund Industry Rejects Money Market Proposals
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-02-07T22:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/fund-industry-rejects-plans-for-money-market-changes.html
The mutual fund industry rejected
plans for new rules governing money market funds, escalating a
three-year confrontation with regulators over how to make the
investments safer.  Two proposals being worked on by the SEC’s staff “are
neither constructive nor likely to make financial markets more
resilient,” Paul Schott Stevens, president and chief executive
officer of the  Investment Company Institute , said today in a
statement posted on the group’s website.  “My concern is that within the councils of government
there are people whose agenda it is to kill money market
funds,” Stevens said in a telephone interview. “We won’t go
quietly.”  The statement marks a shift to a more confrontational
approach in a debate that has lasted for more than three years.
The trade group said previously it might accept one of the plans
the SEC’s staff is likely to propose before the end of March.
With new details of the plans emerging last month, the ICI is
now on record opposing both.  The SEC’s first proposal would call for money funds to
abandon their traditional $1 share price, adopting a so-called
floating net-asset value. Industry executives have fought the
idea since it was raised in January 2009 by a think tank headed
by former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker .  Capital Cushion  The second plan would require funds to build a capital
cushion designed to absorb potential losses and hold back at
least 3 percent of client redemptions for 30 days.  The ICI, whose members include  Fidelity Investments  in
 Boston  and New York-based  BlackRock Inc ., had engaged in talks
with the SEC over versions of a capital cushion plan.  “The combination of  capital requirements  and redemption
restrictions may well be the one idea that’s worse than forcing
funds to float,” Stevens wrote today.  Christopher Donahue, chief executive officer of Pittsburgh-
based  Federated Investors Inc ., the country’s third-largest
money fund manager, said Jan. 27 his firm would take legal
action to block the changes being contemplated by the SEC.  Regulators have debated how to make the funds more stable
since the September 2008 collapse of the $62.5 billion Reserve
Primary Fund, which triggered an industrywide run by clients
that helped freeze global credit markets.  Preventing Runs  The SEC enacted new rules in 2010 in an attempt to prevent
future runs and government bailouts. Those changes included
liquidity requirements, shorter maturity limits and enhanced
disclosure mandates.  The ICI had long said it would oppose any regulation that
wouldn’t leave a “robust and competitive industry in place” or
“fundamentally alter the characteristics” of funds for
investors, Stevens said in the interview.  As a second step, SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  “is
advocating structural reforms to  money-market funds  to address
their susceptibility to runs and provide a buffer against
losses,”  John Nester , an agency spokesman, said today in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  