-- Germany Summons Syrian Ambassador After Spying Arrests in Berlin
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-07T15:20:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/germany-summons-syrian-ambassador-after-spying-arrests-in-berlin.html
The German government called in
 Syria ’s ambassador after security officials in Berlin arrested
two men suspected of spying for Syrian intelligence on groups
critical of President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  “We will signal unambiguously to Syrian officials that any
apparent activity against the Syrian opposition in Germany is in
no way tolerable and a violation of the law,” German Foreign
Minister  Guido Westerwelle  told reporters in Berlin today as he
announced the diplomatic protest.  The men, identified as 47-year-old Mahmoud El A., who holds
German and Lebanese citizenship, and Akram O., 34, a Syrian
national, were  arrested in Berlin  earlier today in an operation
that involved about 70 investigators, who searched the suspects’
apartments and those of six others.  The two detained are “strongly suspected of carefully
observing the Syrian opposition in  Germany  for a Syrian
intelligence agency for years,” Germany’s  Federal Prosecutor 
said in a statement. Other suspects, whose apartments were
searched, were accused of providing assistance, it said.  The arrests come three days after  Russia  and  China  vetoed a
United Nations Security Council resolution backing an Arab
League plan for a transfer of power in Syria. Escalating unrest
directed at Assad’s government has killed more than 5,400 people
in the country since March, according to the UN.  A top-level Russian delegation arrived in Damascus today in
a bid to prod Assad toward a political settlement. Westerwelle,
in a Foreign Ministry statement, called on Russia to increase
pressure on the regime and urged a new round of sanctions.  Suspicion of Syrian espionage arose on Dec. 28, when
Germany’s  Foreign Ministry  called on investigators to clarify
the alleged beating of a Syrian opposition figure, a member of
the  Green Party  in Berlin’s Mitte district, after the party said
it was probably the work of Syrian agents.  Police said at the time  that the politician, Ferhad Ahma,
had been beaten at his appartment early on Dec. 26 by two men
posing as police officers. Local Greens officials  accused  the
Syrian government of trying to intimidate Ahma.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  