-- German Industrial Production Unexpectedly Fell in December
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-02-07T11:24:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/german-industrial-production-unexpectedly-dropped-in-december.html
German industrial output unexpectedly
dropped the most in three years in December as  Europe ’s debt
crisis weighed on confidence and the global economic slowdown
damped demand.  Production  fell 2.9 percent from November, when it
stagnated, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. That’s the
steepest decline since January 2009. Economists had expected
output to remain unchanged, according to the median of 41
forecasts in a  Bloomberg News survey . In the year, production
rose 0.9 percent when adjusted for working days.  While the German economy probably shrank 0.25 percent in
the final three months of last year, data this year suggest it
may avoid recession, which is commonly defined as two
consecutive quarterly contractions. Business sentiment jumped to
a five-month high in January and factory orders gained 1.7
percent in December, driven by demand from outside the 17-nation
euro area.  “Today’s industrial production data confirm the slowdown
of the German economy,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist
at ING Group in Brussels. “However, it is neither a crash
landing nor a belly flopper, only a breather. This should be as
bad as it gets.”  The euro was little changed after the report and traded at
$1.3117 at 12:19 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  All Sectors  German output declined across all sectors in December, the
ministry said. Investment goods production fell 3.6 percent,
energy output dropped 2.2 percent and construction activity
slumped 6.4 percent.  “The uncertainties of the ongoing debt crisis have left
their mark on the real economy,” Siemens AG Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Loescher  said on Jan. 24 after the company
reported earnings that missed estimates. “Although a recovery
is expected in the second half of the year, we must work hard to
achieve our goals.”  European leaders yesterday stepped up pressure on Greek
politicians to accept the conditions for a 130 billion-euro
($171 billion) bailout to help it avoid default. Greek lawmakers
on Feb. 5 agreed to make additional reductions this year equal
to 1.5 percent of gross domestic product.  While the outlook for production remains moderate, a
stabilization of orders and improving business surveys suggest
the weak phase may end, the ministry said. The Bundesbank
forecasts economic growth of 0.6 percent this year and 1.8
percent in 2013.  “It appears that factory orders are stabilizing and a
turning point may have been reached,” said Jens Sondergaard,
senior European economist at Nomura International Plc in  London .
“We are becoming slightly more optimistic on the German
business cycle, especially if we get a little more clarity on
how the Greek situation is going to evolve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  