-- Ghana’s Oil-Driven North-South Divide Erodes Support for Mills
-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u   a n d   E k o w   D o n t o h
-- 2012-02-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/ghana-s-oil-driven-north-south-divide-erodes-support-for-president-mills.html
Mustapha Faisal surveys a pile of
rusty scrap metal that he sells on the roadside in Accra,
 Ghana ’s capital, and sighs as he talks about wishing to go home
to his village in the northern region.  Faisal, 34, who came south a decade ago to find work, says
he can’t afford to return because the jobs are in the south,
where economic development has long outpaced the arid north.  That divide in West Africa’s second-largest economy after
 Nigeria  has deepened as cocoa and gold production rose in the
south and oil output began off the Atlantic Ocean coast. It may
erode support for President John Atta Mills and his ruling
National Democratic Congress in a re-election bid this year
after he won in 2008 by less than 1 percentage point.  “We voted for Mills and the NDC because we expected things
to get better, but it’s rather worse,” Faisal said in an
interview last month, gesturing at the other scrap dealers. “We
will definitely think twice in this year’s elections.”  Ghanaians such as Faisal, who said he earns 250 cedis
($148) each month, have carved out a path from the north to the
south, seeking opportunities in a resource-rich area where
poverty may be largely eliminated by 2030, according to the
 World Bank .  In the drought- and flood-prone north, home to about 17
percent of Ghana’s 24.2 million people, little is produced other
than locally consumed staple crops. Three-fifths of the
population lives on less than $1.08 a day in 2009 prices,
according to the bank.  Tullow, Newmont  The divide has been deepened by Ghana’s oil boom, sparked
by the 2007 discovery of the offshore Jubilee field by London-
based  Tullow Oil Plc . As  oil companies  such as  Eni SpA  and OAO
Lukoil joined gold producers  Newmont Mining Corp . and  AngloGold
Ashanti Ltd.  in the southern half, northerners headed there too,
looking for work in Accra and the oil hub city of Takoradi.  Oil has also helped weaken the cedi as companies seeking to
invest in the oil-driven economy exchanged the currency for
dollars to buy equipment from overseas. The currency has slumped
2.7 percent this year and hit a 17-year low last month. It was
little changed at 1.6849 per dollar yesterday as of the 4:00
p.m. close in  Accra .  Mills, who started production at Jubilee in a Dec. 15,
2010, ceremony with a promise to use oil for a “major industrial
takeoff,” is banking on crude to boost the country’s $31 billion
economy and create jobs.  Since that day, though, oil has missed production targets.
A peak output of 120,000 barrels a day from Jubilee was delayed
until 2013, at least a year later than planned, because of
technical issues, Tullow said Jan. 18. With less money from oil,
Mills may not be able to bring development in time to win
northern votes in the December contest. He faces Nana Akufo-Addo
of the opposition New Patriotic Party, whom he defeated in 2008.  Votes Needed  “It would be fatal for one to lose there, or not to have
substantial votes from there,” said Emmanuel Gyimah-Boadi, head
of the Accra-based  Center for Democratic Development , a non-
profit research group that gets funding from the  United Nations 
and the aid departments of foreign governments.  Should Mills lose, investment in agriculture, which along
with fishing employs 48 percent of the country’s work force, may
dwindle. During his tenure, cocoa production jumped to a record
of more than 1 million metric tons, a buffer-stock program was
created to buy up excess crops and spending on fertilizer rose
61 percent to 55 million cedis last year. The economy expanded
12 percent in the third quarter of 2011 from a year earlier.  Even with the agriculture spending, it’s oil that has
driven the economic hopes of northerners.  No Better Roads  “The discovery of oil came with very high expectations of
better roads, education and health care, but we haven’t seen
anything,” said Cliff Maasole, a political science lecturer at
the Wa, Upper East region-based  University of Development
Studies , by phone. “Mills is a fine gentleman but he hasn’t done
much to win the hearts of northerners,” he said in December.  Ghana’s divide is rooted in the West African slave trade,
when the north was a major source for human trafficking, said
Yao Graham, coordinator of the Accra-based Third World Network,
a non-governmental organization that advocates for rights in
 developing countries .  As a colony under the U.K., the south, then known as the
 Gold Coast , was closely ruled while the north was left as a
military-led protectorate and a source of conscripted labor for
cocoa plantations and  gold mines , Graham said in an interview.  In the south, “roads and railways were built to facilitate
the transportation of minerals like gold and bauxite as well as
timber and cocoa for export to  Europe ,” he said.  Beef and Tomatoes  Ghana’s first president, Kwame Nkrumah, included the north
in his development plans and oversaw the construction of state-
owned factories to process beef and tomatoes there during the
1960s. Decades of economic downturn following military coups,
including the one that ousted Nkrumah in 1966, left northern
development faltering, Graham said.  Mills is counting on a government effort to help bridge the
divide. Ghana’s Savannah Accelerated Development Authority is
meant to attract investment in infrastructure including roads,
irrigation dams, health clinics and electricity and water
production, said Alhaji Gilbert Iddi, chief executive officer of
the authority, in an interview.  The authority “is a big project and adopts an integrated
approach to try to bridge the developmental gap,” said Mark
Woyongo, government minister in charge of the Upper East region,
by phone. “We are hopeful it will stem the tide of migration to
the south.”  Another sign of hope for the north is its reserves of gold,
manganese,  iron-ore  and limestone, according to Ghana’s
Geological Survey Department.  Iron Ore  Ghana National Petroleum Corp., the country’s state-owned
oil company, said in April it would spend $40 million to gather
seismic data to look for crude in the onshore Volta River basin,
which covers about 40 percent of Ghana’s land area.  Cardero
Resource Corp.  of  Vancouver  and its Ghanaian partner, Emmaland
Ltd., were given permits to explore for iron ore at Sheini in
the northern region, the company said Jan. 31.  Mills’s party has historically been strong in the north,
said Kojo Asante, a senior research officer at the democratic
development center, in a telephone interview yesterday. Still,
Mills had to win it back in 2008 after the region voted for the
other party in 2004.  “The fact that the NDC gives more representation to
northerners as compared to the NPP may be the reason for the
North’s alignment,” he said, adding that the south swings
because urbanization brings in different voters each election.  For many of the north’s economic migrants who have headed
south, their perception of Mills’s presidency lies in their
success in finding work.  “Most of my colleagues cannot read and write and we really
regret coming to Accra,” said Osman Abdul Rauf, a 29-year-old
bricklayer who left his home of Bolgatanga in the Upper East
region to come to the capital in 2007, the year the Jubilee
field was discovered. He now drives a motorcycle taxi, a service
that’s illegal yet popular in the congested city. “We would go
back home today if there were jobs for us.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net ;
Ekow Dontoh in Accra at 
 edontoh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Emily Bowers  at   ebowers1@bloomberg.net . 