-- Barclays, Jaguar Buy Ghanaian CO2 Credits, ClimateCare Says
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-02-07T17:19:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/ghana-stove-project-gets-first-carbon-credits-climatecare-says.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and Jaguar Land Rover
have bought carbon credits from a Ghanaian project that uses
faster-cooking stoves to burn less fuel, according to
ClimateCare, an emissions-reduction project developer.  ClimateCare sold some credits last week at 11 euros
($14.55) a metric ton, Edward Hanrahan, a founder and director
of ClimateCare, said in a telephone interview. Barclays, Land
Rover and CDC Group Plc, Britain’s development finance unit, are
among buyers from the project, he said.  “ClimateCare helped open up carbon funding to cook stoves
and we believe this is just the start of what we can achieve in
tackling  climate change  and poverty together through intelligent
carbon and development finance,” Hanrahan said in an e-mailed
 statement . The Oxford, England-based company was taken private
in August after a  management buyout  from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   Replacing traditional wood-burning fires with cleaner
stoves may help fight climate change and reduce poverty by
lowering cooking costs. About 2.7 billion people, or 40 percent
of the world’s population, do not have access to clean cooking
facilities, according to the  International Energy Agency .
Traditional methods can aggravate respiratory diseases and
contribute toward 1.5 million premature deaths a year from
indoor air pollution, the IEA’s Chief Economist  Fatih Birol  said
in an October interview.  Gold Standard  The project, started five years ago, has so far delivered
287,000 stoves and avoided the release of about a quarter of a
million tons of carbon dioxide, Hanrahan said. The credits were
delivered to ClimateCare on Feb. 3 from The Gold Standard
Foundation. It’s the largest single delivery of its kind,
according to an e-mailed statement from the company.  ClimateCare said it worked with Enterprise Works, a not-
for-profit group based in  Washington , D.C., to develop the
project. The CO2 avoided is awarded with so-called Gold Standard
carbon credits, a voluntary offset standard that emphasizes
sustainable development.  The project may produce about 250,000 metric tons of carbon
credits each year and will continue until 2014, Hanrahan said.  Retailers, banks and supermarkets are among buyers of
voluntary offsets as a way to reduce their impact on the
environment. They can’t be used to comply with United Nations
targets under the  Kyoto Protocol  or the European Union’s
emissions trading system.  European Union emissions permits for December have risen 20
percent so far this year to 8.75 euros a metric ton. That’s as
power stations and airlines boost demand for the allowances in
order to comply with pollution limits.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  