-- Glaxo’s Fourth-Quarter Sales Miss Estimates; Smaller Share Buyback Planned
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-02-07T17:14:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/glaxo-plans-buyback-as-fourth-quarter-profit-meets-estimates-sales-fall.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc , the U.K.’s
largest drugmaker, reported fourth-quarter sales that missed
analysts’ estimates and announced a smaller share repurchasing
program than last year.  Revenue fell 2 percent to 6.98 billion pounds ($11.1
billion), London-based Glaxo said today in a statement. That
missed the  average estimate  of 7.31 billion pounds. Sales of
flu-related products, combined with the Avandia diabetes
medicine and Valtrex antiviral, declined to 127 million pounds
from 317 million pounds, hurting growth in all regions, Glaxo
said.  The drugmaker said it will buy back 1 billion pounds to 2
billion pounds in stock this year and will use the proceeds from
a sale of consumer brands to boost its dividend. Alexandra Hauber, a JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst, expected Glaxo to
announce a 2.5 billion-pound share repurchase, according to a
note to investors on Jan. 31. The company bought 2.2 billion
pounds in shares last year, its first repurchase since 2008.  “The market was expecting a larger share buyback and the
guidance isn’t very detailed in terms of the growth they’re
hoping to deliver,” Navid Malik, an analyst at  Cenkos
Securities Plc , said in a telephone interview.  Shares Decline  The shares fell 1 percent to 1,406 pence in London. The
stock has returned 25 percent  in the past year , compared with a
17 percent return for the  Bloomberg Europe Pharmaceutical Index .  The company said its core operating margin will gradually
improve this year, and sales will rise at constant exchange
rates after dropping 3 percent in 2011. From the current quarter
ending in March, Glaxo is switching to a “core earnings”
method for reporting operating profit and earnings per share,
which will exclude items such as legal charges and other one-
time costs.  A cost-cutting program will save an additional 300 million
pounds a year at an expense of 350 million pounds, bringing the
total amount of savings to 2.8 billion pounds by 2014, Glaxo
said. The company intends to use free  cash flow  for increasing
dividends, share repurchases or bolt-on acquisitions.  “We kissed an awful lot of frogs last year, but none of
them turned into princes,” Chief Executive Officer  Andrew Witty 
told journalists in London, referring to the drugmaker’s search
for purchases.  Over-the-Counter  Glaxo sold 17 over-the-counter brands including digestive
helpers Beano and Gaviscon to New York-based Prestige Brands
Holdings Inc. in December, and will pay a supplemental divided
of 5 pence with the fourth-quarter dividend of 21 pence.  The drugmaker is trying to sell a second batch of over-the-
counter products including the Alli diet pill by the end of the
first half of the year, Witty said. The company may not sell
some brands if the price isn’t right, he said.  Glaxo earned 28.4 pence a share excluding some items,
compared with a loss of 7.5 pence a year earlier, the company
said. That beat the average  analyst estimate  of 28.3 pence.  The company is replacing revenue lost from Avandia, Valtrex
and pandemic-flu treatments with new products. Sales of
Votrient, Promacta and Arzerra together more than doubled to 67
million pounds, while revenue from Hycamtin in the U.S. declined
79 percent to 2 million pounds following generic competition.
Three Glaxo medicines were cleared for sale last year, including
Benlysta, a therapy for the immune-system disease lupus that was
approved by U.S. regulators in March.  Seeking Approvals  Glaxo will seek regulatory approval this year for Relovair
asthma medicine, Promacta for hepatitis C, trametinib for
melanoma and a flu shot that protects against four strains of
the virus. The company also expects to release late-stage
results on six drugs and vaccines this year, including the
Relovair asthma treatment and the Mosquirix malaria inoculation.  The company today said its rate of return on investment in
late-stage  drug development  is about 12 percent, compared with
the 11 percent estimate it provided in February 2010. It is
shutting down three of 38 drug Discovery Performance Units in
its research division that failed to meet their targets. The
teams compete for funds bestowed every three years after a
review. Four new units were created, six received greater
investment and five had funding reduced, Glaxo said.  Drugs in Development  The compounds in late-stage development include Relovair,
which Glaxo is developing as a successor to Advair. Results from
a late-stage study on the drug, which didn’t prove superior to
Advair, disappointed investors on Jan. 9. Glaxo is investigating
reports of fatal pneumonia from the highest doses.  Sales of Relovair, which contains vilanterol and
fluticasol, may surpass 1 billion pounds by 2017, according to
the average of five analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Advair and Seretide revenue totaled 5.06 billion pounds in 2011.  Glaxo may face at least one generic competitor to Advair in
the U.S. as early as 2016 and more than three equivalents in
 Europe , where it is marketed as Seretide, Andrew Baum, an
analyst at Citigroup Inc., said in a note to investors on Feb.
3. Possible competitors include  Teva  Pharmaceuticals Industries
Ltd. and  Novartis AG ’s Sandoz unit, he said. Advair, Glaxo’s
best-selling product, makes up about a fifth of the company’s
sales.  The company started repatriating cash held in most euro-
area banks early last year as a contingency measure against a
banking and liquidity crisis, Witty said. The company now moves
“tens of millions of pounds” in cash every day out of banks in
Europe into accounts in the U.K., he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  