-- Glencore Agrees to Buy Xstrata for $62B in Shares
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-07T07:21:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/glencore-agrees-to-buy-xstrata-for-62b-in-shares.html
Glencore International Plc , the
world’s largest publicly traded commodities supplier, agreed to
buy  Xstrata Plc  for 39.1 billion pounds ($62 billion) in the
biggest mining takeover.  Glencore, which has 34 percent of Xstrata, offered 2.8 new
shares for each Xstrata share in an agreed all-share “merger of
equals,” the companies said in a joint statement today. Xstrata
Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis , 53, will take the position
of CEO of the combined group while Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg,
55, will be deputy CEO and president.  Approval for the plan would create a entity with 2012 sales
of $209 billion, the companies said, combining Glencore’s global
trading network for energy, metals and farming products with the
Zug, Switzerland-based coal, copper and zinc mine operator. The
deal has prompted speculation of further mining takeovers as
Glasenberg and Davis set up company to challenge BHP Billiton
Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group.  “This looks like it’s going to be a comprehensive new
business model,” said Ian Kramer, director of energy and
natural resources at KPMG. “I would not be surprised at all if
you see this new giant coming in and sweeping up” other
companies, Kramer said in an interview at the Mining Indaba in
 Cape Town .  Xstrata shareholders other than Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore will hold 45 percent in the combined entity, to be
known as Glencore Xstrata International Plc, the companies said.
The merger values each Xstrata share at 1,290.10 pence and the
company at about 39.1 billion pounds.  Premium for Xstrata  The price is a premium of about 15.2 percent to Xstrata’s
Feb. 1 share price and 27.9 percent to the average in the
previous three months. Xstrata Chief Financial Officer Trevor
Reid will fill the role for the new company, Glencore CFO Steven
Kalmin his deputy.  The combination forms a $90 billion natural resources
group, full integrated from mining, processing, storage, freight
and logistics to marketing and sales, the companies said.  Glencore was founded in 1974 as Marc Rich & Co. by the
former fugitive U.S. financier. The company, which changed its
name in 1994 after management bought out Rich, ended more than
three decades of operating as a closely held partnership with
its $10 billion initial public offering in May.  The copper-to-cotton trader owns mines, plants, ports and
warehouses and employs 2,800 people at marketing units in 40
nations and about 54,800 at industrial units in more than 30
countries. Its oil shipping fleet comprises 203 vessels,
according to a 2010 sustainability report that describes
Glencore as among the world’s leading suppliers of sugar.  Swiss Roots  Xstrata was founded as Sudelektra AG in 1926. The Swiss
infrastructure investment company was renamed Xstrata in 1999,
and Davis became CEO in 2001.  Since then, Davis has overseen its growth from a company
with 2,500 staff and a market value of $500 million to one with
70,000 employees in 20 countries and a value of $58 billion. It
is the fourth-biggest copper producer and mines more zinc ore
than any other.  The combined business would operate mines from  Australia  to
Zambia and be the world’s biggest producer of zinc, lead and
thermal coal and a top-five supplier of copper and nickel,
according to UBS.  Mining Deals  The premium on the deal compares with the 23 percent
average premium paid in 2011 mining deals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Rising commodity demand from developing nations and the
deteriorating quality of mineral reserves is spurring producers
to combine and boost efficiency. Global mining deals swelled to
$98 billion last year, the highest level since 2007, from $76
billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mining companies may spend $134 billion developing assets
this year, up 23 percent from 2010, according to a report last
month by Citigroup.  The combination would reunite two groups that separated a
decade ago when Xstrata bought Glencore’s Australian and South
African coal mines for $2.5 billion and went public in  London .
It would also unite their two South African CEOs in Davis and
Glasenberg, Glencore’s largest shareholder with a 15.7 percent
stake.  ‘Aggressive’ on Mergers  Glasenberg said in August that Glencore is “aggressively”
seeking mergers and acquisitions as market valuations slide. The
former coal trader is also an Australian national and is that
country’s second-richest person, with an estimated net worth of
$7.2 billion, Forbes Magazine said last week. Gina Rinehart, the
Australian mining heiress and media investor, is the richest,
valued at $18 billion.  Glencore is working with Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley
as financial advisers, while Xstrata has hired Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura
Bank International Plc.  The mining industry’s biggest takeover to date is Rio
Tinto’s 2007 acquisition of Alcan Inc. for $38 billion. BHP, the
largest mining company, withdrew from what would have been the
world’s biggest mining deal, a $66 billion offer for Rio, in
2008. BHP has a market value of about 130 billion pounds. while
Rio is valued at 77.6 billion pounds.  Combined, Xstrata and Glencore would report net income of
about $11.2 billion in 2012, Credit Suisse Group AG said in
October. Glencore had first-half profit of $2.5 billion, up 68
percent on a year earlier. It may post adjusted net income of
$4.4 billion for 2011, according to the average estimate of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. It’s due to report earnings on
March 5.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  