-- Xstrata Deal Revives M&A After Slowest Month Since 2009
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-08T12:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/glencore-xstrata-deal-revives-m-a-after-slowest-month-since-2009.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s $41
billion purchase of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the biggest takeover in almost
three years, may help restore confidence in dealmaking amid
evidence global economic turmoil is subsiding.  Glencore’s proposed takeover, the biggest mining
transaction ever, is the latest sign executives are becoming
bolder after mergers and acquisitions in January slumped to the
lowest level since August 2009, the slowest start to a year in
almost a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While takeovers are down 29 percent from a year ago,
encouraging economic data from the U.S. and progress in European
debt talks may unleash pent-up demand for acquisitions, bankers
say. European buyers have accounted for 43 percent of this
year’s M&A volume, and keeping that pace would snap a four-year
decline in  Europe ’s share of global transactions, Bloomberg data
show.  “Corporates are as hungry for growth initiatives as
ever,” including transformational deals and divestitures of
slow-growing divisions, said Christopher Ventresca, co-head of
M&A for  North America  at  JPMorgan Chase & Co . in  New York . “As
people feel more stability and less systemic risk, they will be
more comfortable announcing both of those types of deals.”  Economic Data  The Glencore-Xstrata deal followed  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) ’s agreement on
Jan. 30 to buy  Thomas & Betts Corp. (TNB)  for $3.9 billion to expand
its North American distribution network and boost sales of low-
voltage power equipment.  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  is offering $5.7
billion in a hostile bid for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN) , a provider of gene-
mapping equipment and services.  Eastman Chemical Co. (EMN)  announced a
$3.38 billion acquisition of  Solutia Inc. (SOA)  on Jan. 27.  The purchases have coincided with more positive news on the
economy. The U.S. jobless rate unexpectedly dropped last month
to the lowest level in three years, and the Commerce Department
disclosed on Jan. 27 that gross domestic product climbed 2.8
percent in the fourth quarter, the fastest pace since 2010. In
Europe, Greece’s government and international creditors are
working on the final draft of an agreement that would help free
up a second aid package. The MSCI World Index had rebounded 19
percent through yesterday from an Oct. 4 low.  Metals, mining and coal were some of the busiest sectors
for takeovers last year, comprising about 8 percent of
transactions, or about twice their historic share, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Deals in those industries amounted
to $179.5 billion, the most since 2007.  Not Only Mining  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , facing a new threat from a combined
Xstrata and Glencore, today said it has the capacity to continue
making acquisitions. BHP may target the copper, potash and
energy sectors, Chief Executive Officer  Marius Kloppers  said in
August.  Oil and gas and information technology also led M&A last
year, making up for fewer takeovers in telecommunications and
financial services.  “The consolidation will probably continue, not only in the
mining space,” said Matthias Fankhauser, a fund manager at
Clariden Leu in Zurich, which oversees about $100 billion in
assets. The Glencore deal “will encourage other companies to
think the same. They now realize that size matters, as all
companies are trying to get volume and protect their margin.
It’s easier to do so when you are big.”  More Deals  More large deals may be coming.  Nestle SA (NESN)  and  Danone SA (BN) 
made first-round bids for  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s baby-formula business,
people with knowledge of the process said in January. That
division of the New York-based drugmaker may fetch as much as
$10.5 billion, people familiar with the situation said last
year.  AMR Corp (AAMRQ) .’s American Airlines, a takeover target now that
it’s in bankruptcy, has attracted interest from Delta Air Lines
Inc. and US Airways Group Inc. this year, people with knowledge
of the matter said last month.  Yahoo! Inc (YHOO) ., the largest U.S. Web portal, is examining a
sale of its Asian assets, which include stakes in  Alibaba Group
Holding Ltd (ALIBABZ) . and  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , people familiar with the
matter said this year. The company, whose market value is
approaching $20 billion, was also in talks with buyout firms
about selling a minority stake in itself, the people said.  Tech Takeovers  Technology takeovers may again boost M&A this year as
companies such as  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  hunt for acquisitions that
will increase their capacity to provide new storage, analytics
and security services to enterprise customers. Hewlett-Packard
Co., Google Inc. and Microsoft Corp. led a 38 percent gain in
technology deals last year, outpacing an advance of about 3.7
percent for all of M&A worldwide, Bloomberg data show.  “M&A activity is certainly on an upward trend from a
desperately low level late last year,” said Will Jackson-Moore,
U.K. transactions leader at PricewaterhouseCoopers in  London .
“Still, corporations are showing a lot of restraint and they
will remain very selective about opportunities. They want to
protect their balance sheets, which is one of the reasons
balance sheets are as strong as they’ve ever been.”  The biggest 1,000 companies globally are sitting on almost
$3.5 trillion of cash and equivalents, up 12 percent from a year
earlier, according to data that excludes financial-services
firms.  Blocked Takeovers  Regulatory hurdles may still be a concern for executives
looking at transformational deals after AT&T Inc. was forced to
abandon efforts to buy wireless operators  T-Mobile USA (DTE)  for $39
billion in December. Deutsche Boerse AG and NYSE Euronext
terminated a merger agreement that would have created a $26
billion transatlantic exchange group on Feb. 2, a day after
European antitrust regulators rejected the combination.  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, meanwhile, is reviewing
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s $29.1 billion offer for  Medco Health
Solutions Inc. (MHS) , which would create the largest U.S. manager of
pharmacy benefits for employers, insurers and union health
plans.  To gain more confidence, companies may still need to see a
big deal in an industry that has been sluggish, said Scott Moeller, a professor in the practice of finance at Cass Business
School in London, who is a former M&A banker at Deutsche Bank AG
and Morgan Stanley.  “There is going to be a trigger event that kicks off the
market, where people say, now it’s time and if people begin to
think now is the time to act, we could see a resurgence,”
Moeller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  