-- Glencore to Buy Xstrata for $41 Billion in Biggest Mine Deal
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-07T22:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/glencore-xstrata-agree-on-90-billion-merger-of-equals-.html
Glencore International Plc, the
world’s largest publicly traded commodities supplier, agreed to
buy  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  for about 26 billion pounds ($41 billion) in
shares in the biggest mining takeover.  Glencore offered 2.8 new shares for each one in the Zug,
Switzerland-based coal exporter, the companies said in a joint
statement today. That represents a premium of 8 percent based on
Xstrata’s and Glencore’s stock prices before news of the deal
emerged. Xstrata Chief Executive Officer  Mick Davis , 53, will be
CEO of the combined group, while Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg,
55, will be deputy CEO and president.  The plan would create a business with $209 billion in
sales, the companies said, combining Glencore’s global trading
network for energy, metals and farming products with Xstrata’s
coal, copper and zinc mines. At least three shareholders said
they oppose the deal that would see Glasenberg and Davis set up
a company to challenge  BHP Billiton Ltd . and  Rio Tinto Group .  “The combined entity will have some competitive advantages
because of its size, and they’ll be able to do deals,”  Ian Henderson , a  fund manager  at JPMorgan Asset Management who helps
oversee about $8 billion in assets including Xstrata shares,
said in  Cape Town . “It would be much easier if you’re a bigger
entity. The reason that I’m not really against the deal is that
I think the intellectual firepower of both companies is great.”  The offer by Glencore, which already owns 34 percent of
 Xstrata , values the target at 39.1 billion pounds, the companies
said. The premium, which is 17 percent based on Xstrata’s
average share price over the past 20 days and 7.2 percent based
on the historical stock ratios between the two stocks, compares
with the 23 percent average paid in 2011 mining deals, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Xstrata ‘Undervalued’  “The proposed exchange ratio clearly undervalues Xstrata’s
assets and future earnings contribution,”  David Cumming ,
Standard Life Investments’ head of equities, said in e-mailed
comments. “It is our intention to vote against the deal unless
the merger terms for Xstrata are materially improved.”  Schroders Plc said  Richard Buxton , head of U.K. equities,
intends to vote against the deal, according to e-mailed comments
from Estelle Bibby, a spokeswoman. Huy Hoang, a fund manager at
HDH Capital Management Pte, also said he would oppose the plan.  Schroders has 1.5 percent of Xstrata and Standard Life
about 2 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Hoang said by
phone that his company has about 5 million pounds in Xstrata.  Xstrata fell 4.9 percent to 1,200 pence by the close of
 London  trading. Glencore dropped 3.8 percent to 443.25 pence.
The merger values each Xstrata share at 1,290.10 pence.  Glencore, which held a $10 billion initial public offering
in London in May, and Xstrata have been talking about a merger
for five years, Glasenberg said in a phone interview. “Since
the IPO, we’ve been talking every few weeks,” he said. Davis
said the companies discussed the transaction “for many years.”  ‘Merger of Equals’  The combination is “a merger of equals,” the companies
said in the statement. The deal is expected to close in the
third quarter, Davis said on a conference call, after it
receives approvals from shareholders and antitrust regulators in
countries such as  South Africa  and  China . Synergies will deliver
annual gains of $500 million to $600 million, he said.  “This would mainly come from putting Xstrata production
into Glencore’s marketing and trading system,” Davis said.
“This would create such a different animal in the space, with
huge flexibility and optionality to get value from exploration
to delivery of product. No company has that capability.”  Xstrata shareholders other than Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore will hold 45 percent of the combined entity, to be
known as Glencore Xstrata International Plc and listed in London
and  Hong Kong , the companies said. Its headquarters would be in
 Switzerland . Glencore has agreed to pay Xstrata a so-called
break fee of 298 million pounds should it withdraw the offer.  John Bond  Xstrata Chief Financial Officer Trevor Reid will fill the
role in the new company, with Glencore CFO Steven Kalmin as his
deputy. Xstrata non-executive Chairman  John Bond  will be
nominated for the same post in the combined company. The board
will include Davis, Glasenberg and a further four non-executive
directors from each side of the deal.  The combination forms a $90 billion natural resources
group, fully integrated, from mining, processing, storage,
freight and logistics to marketing and sales, the companies
said. The group will have operations and projects in 33
countries with 101 mines and more than 50 metallurgical
facilities. It will have about 130,000 workers.  Glencore was founded in 1974 as Marc Rich & Co. by the
former fugitive U.S. financier. The company, which changed its
name in 1994 after management bought Rich out, ended more than
three decades of operating as a closely held partnership with
its May IPO.  Earnings Rise  The copper-to-cotton trader owns mines, plants, ports and
warehouses and employs 2,800 people at marketing units in 40
nations and about 54,800 at industrial units in more than 30
countries. Its oil shipping fleet comprises 203 vessels,
according to a 2010 sustainability report that describes
Glencore as among the world’s leading suppliers of sugar.  Glencore today said net income before exceptional items
rose 7 percent to $4.1 billion in 2011. It expects to declare a
final dividend of 10 cents a share. This year “has started well
across all areas of our business,” Glasenberg said. “Much of
the market weakness experienced towards the end of the year has
reversed and market volumes remain healthy.”  The takeover will create the fourth-largest mining company,
Glencore said. The trader’s market value has grown to about $50
billion at yesterday’s close from $1.2 billion at the time of
its  management buyout  in 1994, it said. Xstrata was founded as
Sudelektra AG in 1926. The Swiss infrastructure investment firm
was renamed Xstrata in 1999, and Davis became CEO in 2001.  Overseeing Growth  Since then, Davis has overseen its growth from a company
with 2,500 staff and a market value of $500 million to one with
70,000 employees in 20 countries and a value of $58 billion. It
is the fourth-biggest copper producer and mines more zinc ore
than any other. Xstrata said today 2011 net income before
exceptional items rose 12 percent to $5.79 billion.  The combination would reunite two groups that separated a
decade ago when Xstrata bought Glencore’s Australian and South
African coal mines for $2.5 billion and went public in London.
It would also unite their two South African CEOs in Davis and
Glasenberg, Glencore’s largest shareholder with 15.7 percent.  Glencore is working with Citigroup Inc. and Morgan Stanley
as financial advisers, while Xstrata has hired  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc .,  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., Deutsche Bank AG and Nomura
Bank International Plc.  Mining Deals  Rising commodity demand from developing nations and the
deteriorating quality of mineral reserves is spurring producers
to combine and boost efficiency. Global mining deals swelled to
$98 billion last year, the highest level since 2007, from $76
billion in 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Mining companies may spend $134 billion developing assets
this year, up 23 percent from 2010, according to a report last
month by Citigroup.  The mining industry’s biggest takeover to date is Rio
Tinto’s 2007 acquisition of Alcan Inc. for $38 billion. BHP, the
largest mining company, withdrew from what would have been the
world’s biggest mining deal, a $66 billion offer for Rio, in
2008. BHP has a market value of about 130 billion pounds. while
Rio is valued at 77.6 billion pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  