-- Glencore-Xstrata Combination May Seek to Build African Iron Ore Business
-- B y   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-07T15:41:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/glencore-xstrata-may-seek-to-build-african-iron-ore-business.html
Glencore International Plc  and
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) , which have agreed to form the fourth-largest mining
company, may seek  West African   iron-ore  assets to bolster their
holdings of the raw material, executives and analysts said.  “With this whole region, you are going to see further
consolidation and a Glencore-Xstrata combined entity is going to
be part of that, probably more so now that they’re not
competitors,” Joe Ariti, a director of African Iron Ltd., said
in an interview in  Cape Town  today. African Iron, which owns an
iron ore project in Republic of Congo, agreed last month to a
A$338 million ($365 million) takeover by  Exxaro Resources Ltd.   Glencore today agreed to buy Xstrata for about 26 billion
pounds ($41 billion) in shares in the world’s biggest mining
takeover to create a business with $209 billion in sales.
Glencore Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said in August
the company was looking for investments in iron ore.  Xstrata completed the purchase of  Sphere Minerals Ltd . for
$516 million last year to add deposits in Mauritania. Glencore
has an iron ore sales accord with  London Mining Plc , a producer
in  Sierra Leone , and a holding in Core Mining Ltd. which is
developing an iron ore project in the republic of Congo.  “Glencore is a good customer of ours, we expect to build
our relationship and business with them over time,” Graeme
Hossie, London Mining’s CEO, said today in an interview in Cape
Town. “They’ve had a different approach to mining than Xstrata
has. I would expect that they would” look to grow their
presence in iron ore in West Africa, Hossie said.  New Ore Region  West Africa is emerging as a new region of potential iron
ore producers “as large-scale projects are pursued by the
majors and junior projects come on stream,” Fairfax Plc
analysts said in a Feb. 3 research report.  High margins based on lower operating costs offer
attractive returns once capital is arranged, Fairfax said. The
region is “likely to become a meaningful source of supply over
the next 10 years, with  Guinea  potentially the third-biggest
provider of seaborne iron ore by 2016, the analysts said.  For Glencore and Xstrata, ‘‘rather than cannibalizing that
market, it’s probably going to make a lot more sense that they
work together and take a lot more opportunities into the
combined entity,’’ African Iron’s Ariti said.  Xstrata is co-owner of the $6 billion Zanaga iron-ore
project in the Republic of Congo and plans to bring in a new
investor because  Zanaga Iron Ore Co.  is considering reducing or
selling its stake. Xstrata, with 50 percent plus one share in
the project, has an option to buy Zanaga out after completing a
feasibility study in early 2014.  ‘‘ Mick Davis  at the helm of a joint Xstrata/Glencore
business should be seen as a positive for Zanaga, given he has
already made a major commitment to build an iron ore division
with Xstrata,’’ Liberum Capital Ltd. analysts said in a Feb. 3
note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  