-- Glencore, Xstrata Enlist 18 Senior Bankers to Seal $90 Billion Merger Deal
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   B r e t t   F o l e y
-- 2012-02-07T17:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/glencore-xstrata-enlist-18-senior-bankers-for-90-billion-deal.html
Xstrata Plc (XTA)  and  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN)  enlisted 18 senior bankers, from firms that
advised both companies through a decade of deals, to seal their
agreement to create a $90 billion mining and commodity-trading
powerhouse.  Xstrata turned to bankers including  JPMorgan Chase & Co .’s
Ian Hannam and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s Nigel Robinson, while Glencore
worked with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  bankers including  David Wormsley  and
Morgan Stanley’s Michel Antakly.  Michael Klein , a former
investment banking chairman at Citigroup, also helped broker
negotiations, working as an independent adviser. Klein stepped
down from Citigroup in 2008 after working for the New York-based
bank since 1985.  The official list of advisers includes bankers from those
firms as well as from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Nomura
Holdings Inc. (8604) , which advised Xstrata. The banks are set to reap
as much as $140 million in fees from the transaction, according
to data from New York-based research firm Freeman & Co.  The merger will create the world’s fourth-largest mining
group and may prompt further takeover activity in the resources
sector and beyond.  “This shows M&A activities are coming back strongly. The
consolidations will probably continue, not only in the mining
space,” said Matthias Fankhauser, a  fund manager  at Clariden
Leu in Zurich, which oversees about $100 billion in assets. The
merger “is definitely a good start of the year” for the
advising firms, he said.  $10 Billion IPO  Glencore also called on  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Laurence Hopkins
and Alastair Cochran. At Citigroup, Tom Reid and Simon Lindsay
advised Glencore, according to the companies’ statement today.
Goldman Sachs’s Brett Olsher and Luca Ferrari were advisers to
Xstrata.  Nomura tapped its co-head of global investment banking,
 William Vereker , as well as William Barter and Shaun Treacy,
head of U.K. investment banking and corporate broking and global
co-head of natural resources and power, respectively.  Citigroup’s Wormsley, who helped advise Glencore on its $10
billion initial public offering last year, returned to the New
York-based bank after a short sabbatical that followed its sale
of record label EMI to Vivendi SA and  Sony Corp. (6758)   Goldman Sachs’s Olsher joined the firm in 2010 from
Deutsche Bank, which has a corporate-broking relationship with
Xstrata and helped take Xstrata public in 2002. JPMorgan, the
previously independent Cazenove, BNP Paribas SA and HSBC
Holdings Plc also worked on Xstrata’s IPO.  At Deutsche Bank, Khaled Fathallah and Nick Bowers also
worked with Xstrata.  Dining in Cape Town  At JPMorgan, which also serves as a broker to Xstrata,
Hannam helped the mining company first sell shares in 2002, and
was involved in many of its subsequent acquisitions, including
its $18.1 billion purchase of the Canadian nickel producer
Falconbridge Ltd. in 2006.  London-based Hannam, a former soldier, was in  Cape Town 
yesterday attending the annual Investing in African  Mining
Indaba  conference and dined there with Evy Hambro, the portfolio
manager of  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s $16 billion World Mining Fund,
according to a person with knowledge of the meeting. BlackRock
is among the top 10 shareholders of both companies, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore’s IPO in May was crucial to laying the groundwork
for the transaction, which was negotiated before Christmas, as
it provided a starting point for agreeing a valuation, according
to a person with knowledge of the transaction.  The deal cements Goldman’s spot as the world’s top M&A
adviser and catapults Nomura to No. 6 from 15th, the data show.
The deal boosts Deutsche Bank two notches to fourth and Morgan
Stanley to fifth. Citigroup maintains its position as second.  The merger, which tops  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ’s $38 billion takeover
of Canada’s Alcan Inc. in 2007 to become the largest mining deal
ever, comes after a poor showing for takeovers at the end of
last year. The value of mergers and acquisitions globally
dropped to the lowest level in more than a year in the fourth
quarter of 2011, with announced deals slumping 14 percent from
the previous three months to $473 billion, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in Melbourne at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  