-- Glencore, Xstrata Deal Set to Squeeze Japan Coal Post-Fukushima
-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a   a n d   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-02-07T15:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/glencore-xstrata-deal-set-to-squeeze-japan-power-utilities-post-fukushima.html
Glencore International Plc’s agreed
takeover of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , making it the world’s biggest thermal
coal exporter, poses a new threat to Japanese utilities forced
to buy more of the fuel after the Fukushima nuclear disaster.  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, produces about 20 million metric tons of power station
coal a year and would boost output fivefold through an
acquisition of Xstrata. Japan’s thermal coal imports will
probably rise 3 percent to 104 million tons in 2012, according
to Daiwa  Capital Markets .  “The coal market will likely tighten because the merger
accelerates market domination by suppliers,” Hidetoshi Shioda,
a senior analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., said by phone.
“Japan will increase coal imports because of energy issues
after the Fukushima accident.”  The top five thermal coal exporters led by the combined
company would have about 30 percent of the global market after
the deal, according to UBS AG. Japanese power companies, the
world’s second-biggest buyers of thermal coal, are forecast to
pay near record prices for imports from  Australia  again this
year as the Asian nation shifts away from nuclear energy
following the Fukushima accident last March, the worst since
Chernobyl in 1986.  “Fewer suppliers through mergers and acquisition
activities may oligopolize the market,”  Yuuki Sakurai , chief
executive officer at Fukoku Capital Management Inc. in Tokyo
which manages the equivalent of $20 billion, said by phone.
There’s a “possibility that the negotiation power of the
utilities will weaken,” he said.  Russian Supply  The impact on European coal markets, where the U.K. and
 Germany  are the biggest importers, may be more limited because
of the range of suppliers, Nigel Yaxley, a U.K.-based
independent industry consultant said. Russia, a country where
neither Xstrata nor Glencore have mines, is the biggest supplier
of coal to the European Union.  “I don’t see it as a big deal at all because of the
liquidity in coal markets,” Yaxley said in a telephone
interview today. “There’s coal from  Russia , the U.S.,  Colombia 
and South Africa.”  China Impact  The merger will have little impact on coal imports into
 China  because purchases are based on the price rather than the
quality of the commodity, said Zhao Guodong, a Beijing-based
spokesman at China Coal Technology and Engineering Group.
Chinese consumers would seek supplies from local producers
should prices gain, overcoming transportation hurdles, he said.  The effect on Indian companies, too, would be minimal, said
Narendra Nath Misra, director at NTPC Ltd.,  India ’s largest
thermal power generator accounting for more than one-third of
the nation’s total coal imports.  “Our imports are very little compared with other
countries,” Misra said today by phone. “I don’t foresee any
cost increase for NTPC after this takeover.”  Glencore, which has 34 percent of Xstrata, offered 2.8 new
shares for each Xstrata share in an agreed takeover, the biggest
mining deal. Combined the companies will have 2012 sales of $209
billion, they said today.  Australian Coal  Japan ’s contract prices for thermal coal from Australia for
the year starting April 1 may be $120 a ton, Daiwa said. That
would be 71 percent higher than the 10-year average for spot
sales of coal from Australia, according to data from IHS
McCloskey Group Ltd. The contract price reached a record $130 a
ton last year.  Japan, which relied on nuclear energy for about 30 percent
of its power needs, now only has three of its 54 reactors
operating. The nation is running its thermal coal plants at
almost 100 percent because the fuel is the cheapest after
uranium and it’s building new coal-fired power stations. Chugoku
Electric Power Co. and Kyushu Electric Power Co. are among
companies building or planning to build plants.  A Glencore-Xstrata combination would create a rival to BHP
Billiton Ltd., the world’s biggest mining company. It would be
the world’s biggest producer of zinc, lead and thermal coal and
a top-five producer of copper and nickel, according to UBS.  South Africa  Buying Xstrata will give Glencore control of coal mines in
Australia, Colombia,  South Africa  and  Canada . Glencore, which
describes itself as “a market leader” in coal marketing on its
website, also buys thermal coal from other companies. Xstrata’s
operations and Glencore’s marketing unit will operate under
their existing brands, Glencore said today.  “If they merge and become an even bigger player in the
market, it will probably have some effect,” Tetsuya Umehara, a
deputy director of the coal division of Japan’s Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry coal division, said by phone. “We
are still watching the effects of the possible merger. The coal
market is already” controlled by a small number of companies,
he said.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. is running only one of its 17
nuclear reactors after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
wrecked its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. It boosted consumption of
coal by 24 percent in December, alongside a threefold gain in
 fuel oil  and a sevenfold gain in crude oil.  Taichi Okazaki, a spokesman for the company, declined to
comment on the merger. Chubu Electric Power Co. spokesman Akio
Miyazaki and Electric Power Development Co. spokesman Hiroshi
Nakatani also declined to comment.  Energy Costs  Nuclear energy costs were estimated to be at least 8.9 yen
(12 cents) per kilowatt-hour while coal, liquefied natural gas
and oil were calculated at 9.5 yen, 10.7 yen and 36 yen,
respectively, a government panel said in December.  Japan, which imports almost all its coal, has boosted
purchases 80 percent since 1990 and accounts for about 15
percent of the world’s total coal trade, according to a Jan. 16
report by Enerdata.  About 65 percent of its coal comes from
Australia.  “Japanese demand has also improved as coal burn from the
Japanese power utilities is now above 2010 levels,” Macquarie
Group Ltd. analysts led by Colin Hamilton said in a Jan. 18
report.  Global seaborne demand for thermal coal may gain 22 percent
by 2016 to 947 million tons from last year, Macquarie estimated.
The market may swing from a balance last year to a deficit in
2016 with demand increasing 30 percent to 1 billion tons.  Electricity from coal-fired plants may rise 63 percent to
13,000 terawatt-hours by 2035, the  International Energy Agency 
said in November. Global atomic capacity may drop 15 percent by
2035, spurring investment in coal-fired plants, it said.  Mining takeovers are accelerating as companies struggle to
replace depleting deposits and China’s industrial growth stokes
demand for metals.  “Pricing power will shift into mining companies as they
accelerate domination in the market,” Tatsufumi Okoshi, senior
economist at Nomura Securities Co., said by phone. “Suppliers
may gain pricing power in the second half of this year to next
year, when the European debt crisis calms down and economies
recover.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net ;
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  