-- Global Office Vacancies Decline to Two-Year Low, Jones Lang LaSalle Says
-- B y   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2012-02-07T02:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/global-office-vacancies-decline-to-two-year-low-jones-lang-lasalle-says.html
Global office vacancies dropped to
their lowest level in two years, driving rents higher for an
eighth straight quarter, a Global Office Index report by  Jones
Lang  LaSalle Inc. showed.  Global vacancy edged to 13.6 percent, Jones Lang LaSalle,
the world’s second-biggest publicly traded commercial-property
broker, said. Prime office rents have risen for eight straight
quarters, climbing 0.8 percent over the September quarter and 6
percent from the same period a year ago, according to the report.  Vacancy rates are expected to fall further in the U.S. and
Europe in 2012 amid declines in supply of  office space , Jones
Lang said. By contrast, vacancy levels are expected to rise in
China and  India  this year as office supply is expected to rise
to a record, it said.  “The rental outlook for 2012 has been tempered by ongoing
economic uncertainty, although we continue to expect positive
rental growth in most major prime office markets,” Jeremy Kelly,
director at Jones Lang LaSalle’s global research team, said in
the report. “While leasing markets in the major financial
centers are softening, the limited supply pipeline should ensure
that they do not move significantly out of balance.”  Rental growth rose the highest in the Americas at 1.2
percent in the fourth quarter from the previous quarter, Jones
Lang said. In Asia-Pacific markets, growth decelerated to 0.9
percent in the quarter from 2.5 percent in the previous three
months as corporate demand began to slow, it said.  Europe ’s
office markets showed some improvement in the quarter with rents
climbing 0.4 percent from a virtual halt in the third quarter
countering slowing economic growth.  Leasing volumes will be steady this year with positive
rental growth expected in most major office markets including
Beijing, Toronto and  San Francisco , topping the charts with
potential double-digit increases, Jones Lang said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  