-- Goldman Sachs Said to Seek Investors for REDI Technologies Unit
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/goldman-sachs-said-to-seek-investors-for-redi-technologies-unit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, is seeking outside investors for
its  REDI Technologies  trading-software business, according to
two people familiar with the matter.  The unit, which develops and manages software that allows
Goldman Sachs clients to trade financial products
electronically, could reach agreement with new investors within
a month, said one of the people, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private. Dow Jones Newswires reported on
the unit’s planned spin-out earlier yesterday.  Goldman Sachs intends to maintain a significant investment
in the business, which relocated to the bank’s  New Jersey 
building from its Manhattan headquarters in the past few months,
according to one of the people. Investors are likely to include
other brokers with global businesses across asset classes, the
other person said.  “Commissions are currency on the Street these days,”
Scott Harrison, global head of product at Liquidnet Holdings
Inc. in New York, said in a phone interview. He is a former
chief executive officer of Burbank, California-based UNX LLC, a
technology company that has an execution-management system.
“You have to pay commissions to multiple brokers to get
services,” he said. “Clients need access to many brokers on
one system.”  Currencies, Rates  Goldman Sachs acquired the software that formed the basis
for REDI Technologies when it purchased  New York  Stock Exchange
specialist Spear, Leeds & Kellogg LP in 2000 and has expanded it
to handle trades in asset classes such as currencies and
interest rates. Goldman Sachs expects the independent business
to meet client demand for execution management systems that give
them easier access to multiple brokers and aren’t seen as
single-dealer platforms, one of the people said.  Tabb Group LLC, a New York-based research firm, said in a
June report that single-dealer execution-management systems,
which once functioned for clients as a “direct highway of order
flow and a portal to services,” have become less relevant to
the brokers that sponsored them. Their return on investment is
“questionable,” the report said.  The REDI platform is used by Goldman Sachs’s hedge fund
clients, asset managers and brokers that employ the firm’s
electronic-trading services. While orders can be sent to some
brokers through the REDI system, it’s used primarily to ship
orders to Goldman Sachs, one of the people said.  Rishi Nangalia, an executive in the Goldman Sachs
Electronic Trading unit, will have a senior role in the
business, according to one of the people.  Barclays, ConvergEx  Goldman Sachs’s plans come about a year after London-based
Barclays Plc sold the RealTick trading platform, which lets
customers access services from multiple brokers, to  New York- 
based ConvergEx Inc. Barclays said in December 2010 that it
planned to use the system within its investment banking unit and
offer the platform to customers. The bank got RealTick when it
acquired part of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Knight Capital Group
Inc. and other securities firms bought execution-management
systems starting in the mid-2000s to give mutual funds and other
clients access to exchanges and algorithms, or trading
strategies that allow them to process larger orders in small
pieces over a preset period, along with other transaction
services. Some platforms were open to the algorithms of multiple
brokers or technology providers while others focused on those
from a single firm.  ITG, Instinet  “Single-broker EMSs offer branding, constant presence and
a single portal to services,” Tabb’s report said. “Routing to
other brokers may also be an option, but as a reluctant service
rather than an advertised benefit.”  Investment Technology Group Inc.  and Instinet Inc., a
subsidiary of Tokyo-based Nomura Holdings Inc., offer execution
platforms to customers. Both firms are execution-only brokers
that don’t trade with their own money. Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News, offers similar systems.  Goldman Sachs and brokers providing mainly execution
services had the most success in finding users among asset
managers that considered them one of their top five brokers, the
Tabb report said. Trading platforms from Morgan Stanley,
JPMorgan and Bank of America Corp. are less utilized, Tabb said.  “Our hope is to deliver a product to our clients that’s
open, that delivers them products and services from multiple
brokers, assets and markets across the globe,” Nangalia, who
runs REDI Technologies, said in an undated  online video  about
the business. “We are not limited to the services that are
offered by one firm nor by the size of a small technology
vendor.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  