-- Goldman Sachs Raises Forecast for Chinese Stocks in Hong Kong After Rally
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-02-07T03:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/goldman-sachs-raises-forecast-for-chinese-stocks-in-hong-kong-after-rally.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its
forecast for an  index of Hong Kong-traded Chinese stocks  by 12
percent because of improving economic growth prospects in
developed markets.  The brokerage increased its target for the Hang Seng  China 
Enterprises Index to 13,600 from the previous estimate of
12,100, Helen Zhu, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, wrote in a
report dated today. The index, which has rallied 16 percent this
year, slid 0.4 percent to 11,522 at 11:03 a.m. in  Hong Kong .  Chinese stocks have rebounded this year on speculation
slowing economic growth will spur the government to ease
monetary policy. The H-shares index, which plunged 21 percent
last year, trades at 8.6 times estimated earnings, compared with
a four-year average of 12 times, according to weekly data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Valuation is low, we have passed the bulk of earnings cut
and positioning is still light enough that many investors still
have a ‘buy on dips’ mentality,” Zhu said in the report.  Goldman Sachs said in another report China remains its
“strongest market view,” supported by an “accommodative
policy cycle.”  The People’s Bank of China announced on Nov. 30 a cut in
lenders’ reserve requirements ratios, the first reduction since
2008. The central bank raised  interest rates  three times and
lifted reserve ratios six times last year to cool inflation that
accelerated to its fastest pace in three years in July.  IMF Warning  Goldman Sachs said a “recent reduction of tail risks in
the Eurozone” may also spur gains for  Chinese stocks . Greek
Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  plans today to discuss with the
nation’s political leaders the implementation of additional
fiscal measures needed to secure a second European Union-led
bailout.  China’s economic expansion would be cut almost in half
should  Europe ’s debt crisis worsen, warranting “significant”
fiscal stimulus from the government, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in a report yesterday.  In the U.S., employers added 243,000 jobs in January and
the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.3 percent from 8.5 percent in
December, the Labor Department reported last week in  Washington .
American manufacturing grew the most since June, the Institute
for Supply Management said on Feb. 1 and the U.K.’s factory
gauge reached an eight-month high.  ‘Soft Patch’  The economy can avoid a so-called hard landing in 2012 even
as growth decelerates further and hits a “soft patch” in the
first quarter, Citigroup said in a report dated Feb. 5. With
inflation contained, policy easing would help create a mild
rebound in the second half, according to Citigroup.  Goldman Sachs cut telecom and consumer staples to
“underweight” from “neutral” and lowered health-care to
“neutral” from “overweight.” It raised transport and metals
to “neutral” from “underweight” and maintained
“overweight” ratings on banks and oil, according to the
report.  Goldman Sachs raised its 12-month target for the MSCI Asia
Pacific excluding Japan index to 490. It also upgraded  Taiwan  to
“market weight” and cut Malaysia to “underweight.”  India 
remains “underweight,” it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  