-- Goldman to Buy Dwight Asset Management
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-07T19:16:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/goldman-sachs-acquires-dwight-asset-management-from-old-mutual.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  agreed to
buy Dwight Asset Management, a Vermont-based stable-value  money
manager , from  Old Mutual Plc (OML)  as it expands retirement offerings
for investors. Terms were not disclosed.  Dwight, which manages and advises about $42 billion in
assets, is scheduled to become part of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management in the second quarter, the New York-based bank said
in the statement.  The purchase “enables us to deliver more investment
solutions to help defined-contribution plan participants
preserve and grow their hard-earned retirement savings,” said
Eric S. Lane and Timothy J. O’Neill, co-heads of Goldman Sachs’
investment management unit, in a statement today.  By expanding defined-contribution products, Goldman Sachs’
investment unit is seeking a bigger share in the U.S. retirement
market, where assets have surged 47 percent to $17 trillion
since 2000, according to data from the  Investment Company
Institute  in  Washington . Employer-based defined-contribution
plans, which allow individuals to invest money toward
retirement, accounted for about $4.3 trillion of the total.  Stable value funds seek to preserve capital by investing in
bonds and are offered in about half of all defined-contribution
plans, according to the Stable Value Investment Association.
There are about $540 billion in assets in such funds, according
to the Washington-based organization.  The sale of Dwight will help “free up capital to redeploy
into our global distribution and asset management franchise,”
Peter Bain, the chief executive officer of Old Mutual Asset
Management, said in today’s statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  