-- Goldcorp Chairman Telfer Linked to OSC Insider-Trading Investigation
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-02-08T02:16:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/goldcorp-chairman-telfer-linked-to-insider-trading-investigation.html
Ian Telfer, chairman of  Goldcorp Inc. (G) ,
was linked to an investigation into  insider trading  by the
Ontario Securities Commission.  Telfer’s name was included in an OSC statement of
allegations regarding illegal insider tipping and trading
between April 2007 and February 2008 by Eda Marie Agueci, who
worked as executive assistant to the chairman and the mining
group of the investment banking department of GMP Securities.
The “scheme” involved trading in the securities of six
companies and yielded profits of about C$962,000 ($967,000),
 Canada ’s main securities regulator said.  The OSC also accused others of insider trading, including
Agueci’s brother-in-law Santo Iacono.  Telfer “did not participate in the scheme but he later
facilitated other conduct by Agueci and Iacono including
disguising the beneficial ownership of securities and
circumventing the monitoring of Agueci’s employer of her
communications and trading, all of which was contrary to the
public interest,” the OSC said.  “I was not part of any scheme,” Telfer said today in a
telephone interview. “I did no improper trading and I’m very
surprised at the tack they’ve taken in saying I did something
contrary to the public interest.”  “It’s not uncommon for people to ask, when they are
acquiring shares, to put them in the name of a relative,” he
said. “It happens all the time and there’s nothing wrong with
it.”  Transaction Prohibition  The OSC said that “Telfer had agreed with Agueci to keep
that share purchase transaction secret and to have another name
(Iacono’s) associated with the private share offering.”  Agueci was prohibited from engaging in undisclosed
securities transactions as an employee of an investment banking
or brokerage firm, the OSC said. Calls to the two E. Aguecis
listed in the Canadian telephone directory weren’t answered.
Calls to the nine S. Iaconos listed in the directory didn’t make
contact with Iacono.  Agueci has been suspended pending the outcome of this
matter, Rocco Colella, a GMP Capital spokesman, said in an e-
mail. “Ms. Agueci’s alleged activities are in clear
contravention of GMP’s compliance policies and procedures,”
Colella said. GMP is cooperating with the investigation, he
said.  The allegations have yet to be heard before the OSC. A
hearing has been scheduled for March 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  