-- Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley to Revise Language on Clawbacks
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-07T23:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/goldman-sachs-morgan-stanley-to-revise-language-on-clawbacks.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  and  Morgan
Stanley  will rewrite their so-called clawback policies to make
it clear they will reclaim pay from supervisors as well as from
employees who take excessive risk or engage in improper conduct.  Memos from both firms confirming the planned changes,
responding to a December shareholder request from New York City
pension funds, were posted to the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s website. The New York-based companies said
regulators are drafting clawback rules, which may satisfy the
city’s request for disclosure of how much pay the banks take
back. Dow Jones Newswires reported on the changes earlier today.  “These two firms have set the standard for clawback
policies in the banking industry,” New York City Comptroller
John C. Liu, who oversaw $113 billion in pension funds as of
Nov. 30, said in a statement today. “We appreciate the dialogue
we’ve had on this issue and will continue to call for them to
disclose the amount of clawbacks if forthcoming regulation does
not require it.”  Liu filed shareholder requests with Goldman Sachs,  Morgan
Stanley (MS)  and New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  seeking tougher
clawbacks after each paid more than $100 million over 18 months
to settle charges of improper conduct tied to mortgage-backed
securities. Spokesmen at Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley, the
fifth- and sixth-biggest U.S. banks by assets, declined to
comment. JPMorgan’s  Joe Evangelisti  didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment. The company is the biggest U.S. bank
by assets.  Michael Garland, the New York City comptroller’s executive
director for corporate governance, withdrew the shareholder
proposals made to Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley after they
agreed to change the language in their policies, according to
memos posted on the SEC’s website.  Liu hired Garland to the new position in September 2010.
Garland had served as director of value strategies for the CtW
Investment Group, which he co-founded within Change to Win, a
federation of unions that represented 5.5 million U.S. workers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net 
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  