-- Goldman’s Hawker Names ‘Turnaround Kid’ Steve Miller as CEO
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-02-07T21:47:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/goldman-s-hawker-beechcraft-names-turnaround-kid-steve-miller-to-be-ceo.html
Hawker Beechcraft Inc., the jet maker
partly owned by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , named turnaround
specialist  Steve Miller  as chief executive officer as the
company works to avoid breaching debt covenants.  Miller’s hiring spurred  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer for which he is chairman, to review
succession plans. Miller, 70, was designated in 2010 to serve as
interim CEO at AIG in the event that  Robert Benmosche  has to
step down while fighting cancer.  The new chief takes over immediately at Wichita, Kansas-
based Hawker Beechcraft, which has been close to violating loan
terms as a softer global economy saps business-aircraft demand.
Hawker Beechcraft hired Perella Weinberg Partners LP as a
financial adviser in December, and its bonds have been tumbling.  “They are working to address their debt situation, so it’s
not surprising that they would look to bring in outside people
to help,” Christopher DeNicolo, a  Standard & Poor’s  credit
analyst in  New York , said in an interview today. “The market
for small- and mid-sized  business jets  is still fairly weak.”  Miller succeeds Bill Boisture, who will remain chairman of
subsidiary Hawker Beechcraft Corp. Nicole Alexander, a company
spokeswoman, didn’t immediately return a phone call or e-mail
seeking comment on whether Miller will lead a restructuring.  Revolving Credit  The maker of Hawker-brand business jets was in compliance
with debt covenants as of Dec. 12, Alexander said at the time.
She also said then that the company probably would “need to
address our revolving credit agreement.”  Hawker Beechcraft’s 9.75 percent notes due in April 2017
fell 4 cents to 8 cents on the dollar at 2:02 p.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  DeNicolo said Hawker Beechcraft may continue to face debt
covenant compliance issues, and a $1.4 billion debt maturation
in March 2014 may increase chances of a distressed debt exchange
or restructuring.  Hawker Beechcraft’s small- and mid-sized business jets
compete against models from  General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream
Aerospace,  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s  Cessna Aircraft  and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s
Learjet.  “This is certainly the most crowded part of the business-
jet market,” DeNicolo said. Hawker Beechcraft also makes
military training and light-attack aircraft and small planes
used for air ambulance and aerial survey needs.  AIG Chairman  Miller remains chairman at New York-based AIG, according to
the insurer, which received a 2008 federal bailout that swelled
to $182.3 billion. He became a director in 2009 before moving up
to chairman the next year.  “The board has an active succession planning process and
will be assessing its plans in light of Mr. Miller’s
announcement,” Mark Herr, an AIG spokesman, said in an e-mail
today. Benmosche in December said he would like to remain CEO
past 2012, longer than previously planned.  AIG has sought to assure investors there will be a smooth
CEO transition as the U.S. government winds down its investment.
 Peter Hancock , who runs AIG’s global property-casualty business,
and life-insurance head Jay Wintrob are two internal front-
runners to be the next CEO, former General Counsel Ernest
Patrikis said last year.  Delphi, Chrysler  Miller dubbed himself “The Turnaround Kid” after a career
of helping hobbled companies survive. He helped oversee the
bankruptcy of auto-parts suppliers  Delphi Corp. (DLPH)  and  Federal-
Mogul Corp. (FDML)  and assisted in Chrysler Corp.’s return to profits
after taking $1.5 billion in government loans in 1980. Chrysler
repaid that borrowing seven years early.  His 2008 autobiography was called “The Turnaround Kid:
What I Learned in Rescuing America’s Most Troubled Companies.”  That background “should reassure creditors that he’s not
new to the game” in the event that Hawker Beechcraft opts to
file for Chapter 11 protection, said Dan Luria, director of
research for the Michigan Manufacturing Technology Center.  In a statement, Miller said he was “honored” to join
Hawker Beechcraft to “help this company navigate through the
challenges of the current general aviation market.”  Goldman Sachs Capital Partners, the fifth-biggest U.S.
bank’s private-equity arm, and Onex Corp. bought Hawker
Beechcraft in 2007 for about $3.3 billion, giving the bank and
 Canada ’s largest buyout firm equal stakes of 49 percent each.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  