-- Google Removes Content in India Deemed Objectionable After Civil Lawsuit
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e   a n d   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k
-- 2012-02-07T09:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/google-removes-search-youtube-content-from-india-domains-on-court-order.html
Google Inc.  removed content from its
 India  domains that was deemed objectionable by a New Delhi
district court after a civil lawsuit against the owner of the
world’s largest search engine.  The material was blocked from India search results,
YouTube, Blogger and the social-networking site Orkut, said
Gaurav Bhaskar, a spokesman for Google India. The content was
deleted from domains .in and .co.in, while remaining accessible
from other countries, Bhaskar said today.  Google  can’t take down
content that appears on websites owned by other companies and
individuals, he said.  India is stepping up scrutiny of Internet postings and
mobile communications as it tries to eliminate provocative
comments and curb discord between religious groups. The Hindu-
majority South Asian country is home to more than 138 million
Muslims, comprising about 13 percent of the world’s second-
largest population.  “This step is in accordance with Google’s long-standing
policy of responding to court orders,” the company said in an
e-mailed statement today.  The statement didn’t provide details about the lawsuit or
the content that was removed, and Bhaskar didn’t elaborate.  Facebook, Microsoft  The order follows a civil complaint filed by Mufti Aijaz
Arshad Quasmi, an Indian activist who seeks the removal of
videos and images that could be seen as offensive to Muslims,
his lawyer Santosh Pandey said today.  The other companies named in the complaint -- Facebook
Inc.,  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  and  Microsoft Corp.  -- have taken the position
that they don’t have control over the content found
objectionable, Pandey said.  The court yesterday gave the companies 15 days to submit
compliance reports. The next hearing will take place on March 1.  Amber Allman, a spokeswoman for  Yahoo , didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment. Kumiko Hidaka, a
spokeswoman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , didn’t
respond to an e-mail. Debjani Mukherji, a Hyderabad-based
spokeswoman for Microsoft, didn’t immediately respond to an e-
mail seeking comment.  Google ’s deletions are in accordance with company policy of
disabling illegal content on its property to comply with local
laws, Bhaskar said.  Another Complaint  Google and Facebook are challenging a separate, criminal
complaint about offensive content in the Delhi High Court. The
next hearings will be Feb. 14 and 15.  “We believe that access to information is the foundation
of a free and prosperous society,” the company said in a
separate statement. “Where content is illegal or breaks our
terms of service, we will continue to remove it.”  The Information Technology Act of 2008 gives the government
authority to order portals to block sites and requires companies
to designate a point of contact for receiving those requests.  India had about 89 million people using the Web at the end
of 2010, compared with more than 450 million in  China , the
world’s largest Internet market, according to the International
Telecommunication Union in Geneva.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  