-- Google Is Said to Assure Fair Licensing for Motorola Patents
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-07T22:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/google-is-said-to-assure-fair-licensing-for-motorola-patents.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the largest maker of
smartphone software, plans to send a letter to standards
organizations reassuring them it will license  Motorola Mobility
Holdings Inc. (MMI)  patents on a fair and reasonable basis, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the situation.  The letter, to be signed by a senior Google lawyer, is
likely to be sent within the next 24 hours, according to the
people, who asked not to be named because the decision isn’t yet
public. The move would come after a deadline passed for Google
to submit remedies to the European Commission, which is
evaluating the plan to buy Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion.  Google, which has drawn scrutiny over the acquisition of
Motorola Mobility’s patents, plans to send the letter to several
standards organizations, the people said. The groups would
include the  European Telecommunications Standards Institute , a
nonprofit recognized by the European Union. Sending the letter
is a “good step” for Google, said Maulin Shah,  managing
director  of patent research firm Envision IP Inc. in  New York .  “Having the blessing of wireless standards committees
could help Google’s position,” Shah said in an interview. “The
regulators might see that as a sign that this is not going to
lead to a monopoly position.”  ‘FRAND’ Licensing  Niki Fenwick, a spokeswoman for Google, said Motorola
Mobility’s patent-licensing approach won’t change after the
acquisition. The company will continue to offer terms that are
fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory, or FRAND, she said.  “Since we announced our agreement to acquire Motorola
Mobility last August, we’ve heard questions about whether
Motorola Mobility’s standard-essential patents will continue to
be licensed on FRAND terms once we’ve closed this transaction,”
she said. “The answer is simple: They will.”  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility, declined to comment.  European regulators will rule on the deal by Feb. 13,
Antoine Colombani, a spokesman for the commission in Brussels,
said today. The agency could either clear the deal or open an
in-depth probe that would last about 90 working days.  Google plans to use Motorola Mobility’s more than 17,000
patents to protect supporters of its Android software in
licensing and legal disputes with rivals such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   The acquisition -- the largest wireless-equipment deal in
at least a decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg --
also makes Google a competitor to the other handset makers that
make Android devices. In addition to running on Motorola
Mobility phones, the software works on handsets made by
companies such as Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC Corp. (2498)   Shares of  Mountain View , California-based Google dropped
less than 1 percent to $606.77 today. The stock has declined 6.1
percent this year.  Motorola Mobility (MMI)  shares rose less than 1
percent today to $38.88.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  