-- GOP Aims to Avoid Blame for Tax-Cut Impasse
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-02-07T21:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/gop-aims-to-avoid-blame-for-tax-cut-impasse.html
Republicans and Democrats in Congress
sought to blame one another for stalled House-Senate
negotiations over how to continue a payroll-tax cut set to
expire at month’s end.  House Speaker  John Boehner  told reporters today that Senate
Democrats haven’t provided an alternative to the House-passed
plan for spending reductions to finance extending the payroll
tax cut through the rest of 2012.  “We have significant concerns whether Senate Democrats are
willing to work with  House Republicans  on the payroll tax-cut
bill,” said Boehner, an Ohio Republican.  House and Senate negotiators have reported little progress
toward agreement on a plan that also would extend long-term
 unemployment benefits  and avert a 27 percent cut in Medicare
reimbursements to doctors. House Republicans insist these
provisions be financed with spending cuts.  House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer told reporters today he
was “very concerned” that negotiators won’t reach an agreement
to extend the tax break before it expires. Whether negotiators
“can get to an agreement seems in doubt at this time.” He said
he wasn’t “for a short-term extension” of the  payroll tax  cut
because it wouldn’t “lend certainty to the economy.”  Reid Alternative  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, is
moving forward with a plan to offer an alternative payroll tax
cut extension that lawmakers could consider if the conference
panel deadlocks. That measure would extend the tax break through
the rest of 2012, Reid spokesman Adam Jentleson said today. Reid
hasn’t decided how to cover the cost of the extension and is
considering options such as selling spectrum allocations and
capping deductions for high earners, Jentleson said.  Any delay in extending the tax cut “redounds to the
benefit of the Republicans who want this economy to stumble,”
Hoyer said. The  Maryland  Democrat said it would be a “tough
sell” for Republicans to blame Democrats for a further delay
after they “created a confrontation” over the issue in
December.  Congress agreed to a two-month extension of the payroll  tax
cut  in December to avoid a January tax increase for about 160
million workers. Boehner accepted the two-month extension after
the Senate wouldn’t agree to the House measure.  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican who is
leading a House-Senate panel negotiating on a tax-cut extension,
said he is awaiting specific proposals from Senate Democrats.  Keep Going  “We’re moving ahead but we don’t have a lot of time so we
need to keep going,” Camp told reporters after the meeting.  “We’re hearing from both leaders and frankly, I guess my
only point would be let’s let the conferees work,” Camp said.
“I don’t think the comments from either side of leadership from
either body are particularly helpful.”  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat and chairman of the Senate
Finance Committee, told reporters: “We’re clearly willing to
work. We will find a compromise.” Baucus said he would soon
offer a proposal on extending the  unemployment insurance  to
address Republican concerns.  Republicans have proposed reducing emergency jobless
benefits in states hit hard by the recession from a maximum 99
weeks, and letting states require recipients to pass drug tests
and work toward a high school equivalency diploma.  Boehner’s comments reflected an effort by House Republicans
to avoid a repeat of the December debate on the payroll tax cut,
when they were blamed for legislative brinkmanship.  Hoyer said Democrats still favor a surtax on millionaires
and ending oil-company tax benefits to help finance the package.  Backup Plan  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, in a floor speech accused Reid of subverting the
talks by saying he is working on a backup plan if the
negotiations don’t lead to an agreement.  “The problem isn’t with Republicans,” McConnell said,
adding that Reid “should be encouraging that effort, not
rooting for its failure.”  McConnell later told reporters he sees a “disturbing
trend” of Democrats walking away from bipartisan deals so they
can blame Republicans for obstruction.  Baucus said the conference committee must get close to a
resolution “in a matter of days.” It will be “helpful for
both sides to learn what can and cannot be accomplished to help
us reach that compromise,” Baucus said. “We have very little
time.”  Baucus has said the panel might have to consider an
extension for less than a full year if lawmakers don’t agree.  Three Options  The conference committee today debated three options to
cover the $100 billion cost of extending the payroll tax cut
package through 2012. Lawmakers are considering extending a pay
freeze for members of Congress and federal workers, as well as
requiring high earners to pay additional  Medicare  premiums. A
separate provision would require more people to return
overpayments of insurance subsidies when their income rises.  Together, the changes would cover about $70 billion of the
measure’s cost.  Still, there was no sense that lawmakers were moving closer
to an agreement. Senator  Ben Cardin , a Maryland Democrat who has
many federal workers in his state, said the committee shouldn’t
agree to the pay freeze for government employees.  “It’s an affront to the fairness in our society of making
sure that all of us contribute,” Cardin said. “Our federal
workers have already had a two-year pay freeze.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  