-- Greece, Troika Work on Final Rescue Draft
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s ,   N a t a l i e   W e e k s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-02-07T20:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/greek-officials-working-on-final-draft-to-meet-international-rescue-terms.html
 Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos 
postponed a meeting with heads of the political parties
supporting his caretaker government a second time in as many
days as the government and international creditors haggled over
terms to secure a second aid package.  Papademos will meet with the leaders in Athens tomorrow,
instead of tonight as previously scheduled, a spokeswoman for
his office said. Instead, he will meet tonight with the so-
called troika, comprising the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund , to put the
final touches to terms required for a 130 billion-euro ($172
billion) rescue package, the spokeswoman said.  The delay is yet another hitch in completing a package
that’s been on the table since July as the government struggles
to wind up financing to avert a collapse of the economy, risking
a new round of contagion in the euro area. With the country
facing a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20, German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  warned yesterday that “time is running
out” to reach an accord.  A Greek official said earlier the government and
international creditors were close to a final draft of an
agreement on budget and structural measures needed to extend the
financial lifeline.  Further Cuts  While the prime minister and party chiefs have agreed to
make further cuts this year equal to 1.5 percent of gross
domestic product, they have yet to close gaps over measures
demanded by creditors for the rescue. Unions, which struck
today, have derided the conditions as “blackmail.”  “It is clear we are going into another drama for Greece
with many questions unanswered,” Patrick Legland, head of
research at Societe Generale SA, told Bloomberg Television
today. “It’s kind of a catch-22 where they have to reduce their
deficit but there is no growth. It’s very tricky.”  At stake is whether  Greece  wins the bailout, secures a debt
write-off with private creditors and remains in the euro region.
Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos told reporters late
yesterday that “failure of these talks, failure of the plan,
the country’s bankruptcy, means even greater sacrifice.”  The euro rose 0.9 percent to $1.3254 at 10:16 p.m. Athens
time after touching $1.3270, the highest level since Dec. 12.
The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slipped 0.3 percent.  Elections Due  With elections due as early as April, Greek political
leaders are arguing over demands such ensuring the viability of
pension funds and reducing wage- and non-wage costs to boost
competitiveness. Greece still needs to agree on 600 million
euros of fiscal measures for 2012, a government official told
reporters in  Athens  today.  Efforts to win a second bailout from the troika have hung
in the balance over the past five days as negotiations in Athens
failed to clinch an agreement on measures demanded by lenders,
which may include a cut in the minimum wage, lower pensions and
immediate layoffs for as many as 15,000 state employees.  Citigroup Inc. raised the probability that Greece will be
forced to leave the euro area in the next 18 months to 50
percent from 25 percent to 30 percent previously.  Merkel said today that the impact of a Greek exit from the
euro would be “incalculable,” and restated her determination
to keep Greece in the single currency region.  “I don’t want Greece to leave the euro and therefore the
question doesn’t arise,” Merkel said in a speech in Berlin. “I
won’t take part in any effort to push Greece out of the euro. It
would have incalculable consequences.”  Even so, Merkel said that there is “no way around” Greece
carrying out reforms. Greece is in a “very complicated
situation”, she said.  Museums Shut  Adding to pressure on Papademos and political leaders
jostling ahead of the elections, about 10,000 people marched
through the capital after the biggest public-sector and private-
sector union groups, ADEDY and GSEE, held a 24-hour general
strike. The walkout shut down government services, courts,
schools, museums and ferry services. Dockworkers and bank
employees also walked off the job.  The troika argues that lower wage costs and pension cuts
are among reforms necessary to boost competitiveness in the
country. Those opposed say the cuts would deepen the country’s
recession, now in its fifth year.  New Democracy  Antonis Samaras, the head of the second-biggest party,  New
Democracy , has indicated he will oppose measures that will
deepen the country’s downturn. George Karatzaferis, the head of
 Laos , one of the three supporting Papademos, said he would seek
assurances that the measures would lead the country out of the
crisis and said the “aggressive humiliation” of Greece is
unacceptable.  Guarantees from Greek political leaders such as Samaras,
who leads in opinion polls, are key to securing the funds from
the EU and IMF. International lenders want assurances that
whoever wins the next election will stick to pledges made now to
receive financing.  Samaras’s party has 31 percent support from voters,
according to a Public Issue poll released today, compared with 8
percent for the socialist Pasok party, which is the biggest
party in the current parliament. The survey of 1,002 Greeks
showed a growing number of Greeks wanting elections immediately
and waning support both for Papademos and the three parties that
back him.  Rescue Blueprint  The rescue blueprint includes a loss of more than 70
percent for bondholders in a voluntary debt exchange that will
slice 100 billion euros off 200 billion euros of privately-held
Greek debt and loans that will probably exceed the 130 billion
euros now on the table.  Papademos met tonight for “constructive” talks with
 Charles Dallara , managing director of the International
Institute of Finance, which has negotiated the terms of the swap
and Deutsche Bank AG Chairman Joseph Ackermann, according to an
IIF statement.  A formal offer for the debt swap must be made by Feb. 13 to
allow all procedures to be completed before the March 20 bond
comes due. Parliament may be called to vote on the terms of the
writedown on Feb. 12, state-runs Athens News Agency reported,
without saying how it got the information.  Creditors are prepared to accept an average coupon of as
low as 3.6 percent on new 30-year bonds in the exchange, said a
person familiar with the talks, who declined to be identified
because a final deal hasn’t been struck yet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Weeks in Athens at 
 nweeks2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  