-- LightSquared Asks FCC to Set Technical Standards on GPS Gear
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-02-07T22:31:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/lightsquared-asks-fcc-to-set-technical-standards-for-gps-devices.html
Philip Falcone ’s LightSquared Inc.
asked U.S. regulators to develop technical standards for the
global-positioning system receivers at the crux of a debate over
the venture’s proposed nationwide wireless service.  GPS devices pick up signals from “other people’s licensed
spectrum” causing interference concerns that could be
eliminated by setting an industry standard, Jeffrey Carlisle,
executive vice president, said in a news conference today. The
company filed a petition with the Federal Communications
Commission, Carlisle said.  LightSquared has sought final FCC clearance for its network
since late 2010 against opposition from GPS makers and users who
say the service would disrupt navigation gear in cars, tractors
and planes. The Reston, Virginia-based company says GPS makers
should have planned to accommodate LightSquared’s use of
airwaves near those occupied by navigation devices.  LightSquared’s filing today proceeds from “false
premises,” Jim Kirkland, general counsel of Sunnyvale,
California-based  Trimble Navigation Ltd. (TRMB) , said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Its suggestion that GPS manufacturers should have
designed receivers to accommodate a prohibited use is simply
self-serving nonsense,” Kirkland said.  The FCC said in an order released April 6 that existing
users of airwaves share responsibility for protecting against
interference. The agency may consider establishing standards
setting receivers’ “ability to reject interference from signals
outside their allocated spectrum,” the agency said in the
order.  Tammy Sun, a spokeswoman for the FCC, declined to comment
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  