-- LightSquared Saga Shows Problems With U.S. Spectrum Policy: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-07T00:01:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/lightsquared-saga-illuminates-problems-with-federal-spectrum-policy-view.html
There are two lessons to be gleaned
from the revelation that  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC lost 47 percent in its main hedge fund last year.  The first is that Falcone took a  mighty gamble  in investing
$3 billion in  LightSquared , a Virginia-based broadband-service
supplier. The second, more important point is to shed light on
how poorly the U.S. government manages the domestic broadcast
spectrum.  LightSquared controls 59 megahertz on the U.S. spectrum
that it hopes to lease to wireless carriers, and struck a cost-
sharing deal with  Sprint Nextel Corp.  last year. Yet instead of
potentially lowering bills and improving service for consumers,
LightSquared finds itself at the center of a congressional
investigation and a nasty war of words with the Pentagon and the
GPS industry.  Some background: Although LightSquared’s portion of the
spectrum was long ago designated for low-power satellite
transmission, Harbinger purchased it in 2010 on a gamble that it
could get permission from the Federal Communications Commission
to operate a mobile-phone system based almost entirely on high-
power, ground-based transmissions. In theory, this is a great
plan: There is little consumer market for satellite phones, and
the range of spectrum allocated for wireless technology is
straining to handle increased demand from smartphones and tablet
computers.  Unwanted Interference  However, to LightSquared’s immediate neighbors on the
spectrum -- primarily the GPS industry and the U.S. military --
it was as though the yoga studio next door wanted permission to
become a nightclub. They say that signals from LightSquared’s
terrestrial towers -- which are far stronger than the weak
transmissions satellites beam back from space -- would cause
interference on their networks, wreaking havoc on military
systems and disrupting the GPS technology that keeps airliners
from crashing into mountains and getting us all lost driving to
Grandma’s house.  The issue quickly became a political football. After the
FCC gave LightSquared a preliminary waiver to begin setting up
its network, Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the ranking
Republican on the Judiciary Committee, started an investigation
into whether Falcone received special treatment. (Falcone has
donated heavily to Democratic and Republican groups.) Grassley
has also accused a LightSquared associate of attempting to get
him to “pull his punches” in exchange for setting up a call
center in his home state.  In September, the  Daily Beast  reported that General William Shelton, who heads the Air Force Space Command, told Congress in
a classified briefing in 2011 that he felt pressured by the
White House to make his testimony on potential interference more
helpful to LightSquared’s interests. Confidential testing data
that proved damaging to LightSquared was provided to Bloomberg
News.  The Commerce Department, which is advising the FCC on
whether to allow the network to operate, commissioned two rounds
of independent testing that found that LightSquared’s technology
would cause “harmful” disruption to GPS receivers for which
there were “no practical solutions.”  LightSquared shot back that the testing was flawed and
“unfair and shrouded from the public eye,” that the GPS
industry “squats” on parts of its range of the spectrum, that
a member of the federal panel overseeing the testing has a
conflict of interest, that Grassley made “unsupported
allegations” of improper  influence peddling  and that technology
exists to limit the interference. Each of these claims may be at
least partly valid. Yet they are not grounds for rushing to
grant a waiver allowing LightSquared to operate, as the company
has insisted.  Comments Wanted  The House Subcommittee on Communications and Technology has
announced hearings on the FCC’s handling of the matter, and the
FCC has asked for public comment on LightSquared’s request for a
finding that GPS gear doesn’t merit legal protection from
interference. Although we can hope the investigation and comment
period will achieve progress on finding solutions to help
consumers, things are far more likely to devolve into a hunt for
partisan scalps and a morass of litigation.  The real villain here is not LightSquared or the GPS makers
or the Pentagon or the FCC. Rather, it is the longtime federal
approach to managing spectrum, under which the government has
parceled off megahertz to buyers but never forced them to use it
efficiently. Understandably, TV broadcasters, telecommunications
providers, the military and others have taken to hoarding their
allotments.  As we have argued before, the FCC could rectify the
situation by charging rent on the portions of spectrum it
licenses, which would give holders an impetus to make the most
efficient use of their spectrum and sell off what they don’t
need. It would also lead companies to develop better
transmission and reception technology that could avoid the
interference issues hampering LightSquared.  Harbinger is in a jam: It has seen its assets under
management shrink to $5 billion from more than $26 billion in
four years. Sprint recently put its deal with LightSquared on
hold. The distressed-equity mogul  Carl Icahn  is buying up its
debt, probably hoping to grab the spectrum holdings on the cheap
if LightSquared goes belly up. We sympathize, but Falcone made a
big bet that he would get an FCC waiver and, given the evidence
at hand and national security implications involved, that seems
unlikely.  It is simply not true that we have to choose between slow,
expensive smartphone service and Air Force bombers falling from
the sky. With improved technology and smarter federal policies,
there will be ever-more ways to increase use of the spectrum for
mobile-phone service without infringing on plane safety,
national security or GPS performance. Unfortunately for Falcone,
it seems unlikely that this can all be achieved in time to meet
the demands of his business plan.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 