-- Illumina Board Rejects Roche’s $5.7 Billion Hostile Bid for Gene Mapper
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-02-07T22:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/illumina-board-rejects-roche-s-blatantly-opportunistic-5-7-billion-bid.html
Illumina Inc. ’s board unanimously
rejected  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s $5.7 billion hostile takeover bid
for the maker of gene-mapping tools as “grossly inadequate.”  “The timing of the offer is blatantly opportunistic and
does not reflect Illumina’s strong platform of new products and
pipeline,” Chairman William Rastetter and Chief Executive
Officer Jay Flatley said today in a letter to shareholders.  Roche went directly to shareholders of San Diego-based
Illumina after the company rebuffed its approaches. Owners have
until midnight New York time on Feb. 24 to tender their shares
at $44.50 each, Basel, Switzerland-based Roche said last month.
Illumina closed today at $51.80 and investors have signaled they
expect Roche to raise its bid.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, said it
wants to move Illumina’s gene-sequencing technology from
academic research labs into routine medical use. The acquisition
would build Roche’s  palette  of health diagnostics products and
potentially allow the company to better target its medicines
toward individual patients. Illumina said Jan. 10 that by the
end of the year it would market a machine capable of scanning a
person’s complete DNA in a day.  Silvia Dobry, a spokeswoman for Roche, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment on Illumina’s action.  Illumina has bolstered its takeover defenses since Roche
made its $44.50-a-share acquisition offer last month, granting
investors the right to buy shares at half price, a so-called
poison-pill maneuver. The strategy may block an unwanted bid by
making it prohibitively expensive.  Illumina said Roche’s bid fails to recognize the growth
potential from Illumina’s 60 percent share of the next-
generation genetic sequencing market.  “Your proposal fails to compensate our stockholders for
the intrinsic and scarcity value associated with Illumina’s
unmatched leadership position,” Rastetter and Flatley wrote in
a letter to Franz Humer, board chairman of Roche.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net   rgale5@bloomberg.net  