-- Times Editor Apologizes for Misleading U.K. Court
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-02-07T17:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/times-editor-apologizes-for-misleading-u-k-court-correct-.html
News Corp. ’s Times newspaper in
 London  misled a court and lawyers for a police officer who
suspected his e-mail account had been hacked by a reporter,
editor James Harding told a media inquiry.  “In the last couple of weeks, I’ve learned a great deal
more about what happened in this incident,” Harding told the
inquiry that was set up in response to the phone-hacking scandal
at News Corp.’s now defunct News of the World. “I sorely regret
the intrusion.”  Reporter Patrick Foster hacked into officer Richard
Horton’s e-mail in May 2009 to expose him as the writer of an
unauthorized “Nightjack” blog about police work. Lawyers for
Horton, to prevent the story from being published, raised the
possibility that the e-mail had been illegally accessed.  Foster told his editor and the newsroom’s lawyer who
advised him to continue to pursue the story through legitimate
means and told Horton’s counsel that his identity was revealed
through deduction, Harding said.  The  Metropolitan Police Service  is investigating the Times
over e-mail hacking, Labour party lawmaker  Tom Watson  said in an
e-mail last week. The paper is the third News Corp. title in
London to come under suspicion in related probes of phone
hacking, computer hacking and bribes to police officers. The
scandal erupted in July after revelations that the News of the
World accessed messages on a murdered schoolgirl’s mobile phone.  Written Apology  Harding has sent a written apology to Horton and Judge
David Eady, the judge in the U.K. high court who decided not to
block the story’s publication based on that testimony, Harding
said.  Foster didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail. A call to
Judge Eady’s office wasn’t immediately returned.  “I was not aware of exactly what he had done. I was aware
we had a concern” before the article was published, Harding
said. “That’s remained the case until I’d got all of these e-
mails and all of this documentation in front of me in the last
couple of weeks.”  The Times published the stories revealing the police
officer because it was in the public interest, Harding said.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s internal investigation team is actively
turning over evidence of wrongdoing at its U.K. titles to
police.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  