-- India Predicts Weakest Economic Growth Since 2009, Adding to Rate-Cut Case
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-02-07T10:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/india-forecasts-slowest-economic-growth-since-09-adding-to-rate-cut-case.html
India ’s government predicted the
weakest economic expansion this year since 2009, adding pressure
on the central bank to reduce  interest rates .  Gross domestic product will probably  rise  6.9 percent in
the 12 months through March from a year earlier, the Central
Statistical Office said in a statement in New Delhi today. The
median of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 7 percent.
 Asia ’s third-largest economy expanded 8.4 percent in 2010-2011.  Growth has slowed after the  Reserve Bank of India  raised
 rates  by a record amount from 2010 until October last year to
fight price increases and as  Europe ’s debt crisis and policy
gridlock deter investment. The central bank has signaled
readiness to follow nations from  Brazil  to Indonesia in lowering
borrowing costs if inflation eases further, saying the
government can help by curbing the country’s  budget deficit .  “This number reaffirms the belief that growth drivers will
remain subdued and suggests the RBI will cut rates in April,”
said Radhika Rao, an economist at Forecast Pte in  Singapore .
“The reversal of RBI policy is on the way but will be guided by
the fiscal deficit and the drop in inflation.”  The rupee, Asia’s worst performer last year with a 16
percent slide against the dollar, climbed 0.3 percent to 48.9875
per dollar as of 3:55 p.m. local time. The BSE India Sensitive
Index closed down 0.5 percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent
note due November 2021 was little changed at 8.19 percent.  Europe’s Impact  Asia-Pacific officials are striving to weather the impact
of Europe’s debt turmoil on global growth. Expansion has eased
in countries from  China  to  South Korea , prompting central banks
to cut rates or leave them unchanged.  Australia  today left
borrowing costs on hold after two reductions last year.  Indian manufacturing may rise 3.9 percent in the current
fiscal year, compared with 7.6 percent in 2010-2011, today’s
report showed. Farm output may gain 2.5 percent and mining could
fall 2.2 percent, according to the estimates.  India’s inflation in December remained the fastest in the
so-called BRIC group that also includes Brazil, Russia and China.  The  Reserve Bank  on Jan. 24 cut the amount of deposits
lenders need to set aside as reserves for the first time since
2009, seeking to ease a cash squeeze. It also said inflationary
threats, including the budget deficit and the slide in the rupee,
made it “premature” to start reducing rates.  Budget Deficit  At the same time, the monetary authority reinforced
guidance that future rate actions “will be towards lowering
them.” It kept the repurchase rate at 8.5 percent for a second
month in January, following 375 basis points of increases in 13
moves from mid-March 2010.  The government is struggling to curb India’s budget deficit
as a slowing economy hurts tax receipts and subsidies spur
spending. The gap reached 92.3 percent of the fiscal-year target
in the nine months through December. Standard Chartered Plc has
predicted India will miss its goal of lowering the shortfall to
4.6 percent of gross domestic product by March.  The next budget will be presented on March 16,
Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pawan Kumar Bansal said in  New
Delhi  today. The fiscal gap may reach 5.9 percent of GDP in
2011-2012 and reducing it requires spending cuts, said Suvodeep Rakshit, an economist at Kotak Securities Ltd. in Mumbai.  The South Asian nation is selling more debt after a slump
of almost 25 percent in the stock market last year forced state-
owned companies such as Oil & Natural Gas Corp. to delay share
sales. The government has raised 11.4 billion rupees ($233
million) from asset sales compared with a target of 400 billion
rupees by March 31.  ‘Reforms’ Needed  “What India needs is a furthering of reforms to expand the
capacity of the economy,” said Amol Agrawal, a Mumbai-based
economist at STCI Primary Dealer Ltd. “Corruption charges and
the reversal of policy initiatives have taken a toll.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s government is under
pressure to revive a legislative agenda derailed by claims of
graft and stalled moves to spur investment. The government in
December suspended its decision to allow foreign retailers such
as Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to open supermarkets following protests.  Singh is trying to preserve an economic turnaround that
began in the 1990s, when as finance minister he helped engineer
a shift toward free-market policies. Once the global economy
stabilizes, India will return to 8.5 percent to 9 percent trend
growth, he said in an interview in December.  “Concerns remain about the current political environment
as both policy formulation and implementation have been hit,”
said  Anubhuti Sahay , a Mumbai-based economist at  Standard
Chartered . “There is an urgent need to revive the economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  