-- India Leno Fans Duck TV Censors as YouTube Showdown Nears: Tech
-- B y   M e h u l   S r i v a s t a v a
-- 2012-02-07T23:57:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/india-leno-fans-duck-tv-censors-as-youtube-showdown-nears-tech.html
Hours after NBC aired an episode of
the Tonight Show with  Jay Leno , Indian television channel Zee
Cafe cut a joke featuring the Golden Temple from local reruns.  The gag poking fun at presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s
wealth drew complaints from India’s diplomats and sparked a
lawsuit by U.S. Sikhs, for whom the gold-clad temple is their
holiest site. Indians curious to hear the joke turned to  Google (GOOG) 
Inc.’s  YouTube.com , which still carries clips of the 8-second
skit.  While Zee is among 24 broadcasters, including  Rupert Murdoch ’s Star India Pvt that voluntarily remove content they
think may offend India’s religious and social mores, global
Internet companies are refusing to follow suit. The stand has
put Google, Facebook Inc. and others at odds with the government
and earned a High Court warning that they risk being banned from
the world’s biggest democracy in much the same way they’re shut
out of China.  “The TV channels here are going the extra mile to ensure
that  government regulation  is kept at bay,” said  Sevanti Ninan ,
whose media-watchdog blog,  thehoot.org , is funded by groups
including the  Ford Foundation  and  United Nations . “It enables
them to say that the government has no reason to regulate.”  Internet companies say they will only remove material that
is illegal, violates their global policies or as directed by a
court.  Mountain View , California-based Google said yesterday
that it has removed content deemed objectionable from its Indian
domains after an order from a New Delhi district judge in a
civil suit.  Request Rejected  Google said requests from authorities to cut politically
sensitive postings have increased. In the first half of 2011,
255 of the 358 items that officials asked Google to remove
related to social media or YouTube postings critical of the
government, up from 11 in the previous six months, according to
the company’s annual  transparency report . Google complied a
little more than half the time.  Google denied a request from one law-enforcement agency to
cut 236 postings critical of a politician, saying that the
material didn’t violate local laws.  Internet companies argue that they cannot monitor the
billions of postings on the Web and that their services promote
the free speech enshrined in  India ’s constitution.  “Access to information is the foundation of a free and
prosperous society,” Google said in a statement yesterday.
“Where content is illegal or breaks our terms of service we
will continue to remove it.”  The government said it’s only pushing Internet companies to
police their sites and cut items that may offend religious
groups or incite political violence.  Failed Talks  Six rounds of talks that began in September between the
government and companies including Google, Facebook, Yahoo! and
Twitter Inc. failed to reach an agreement.  Information and Broadcasting Minister  Kapil Sibal  waved
copies of what he described as offensive material hosted by
portals at a Dec. 6 press conference. Some were lewd depictions
of leaders including  Sonia Gandhi , who heads the ruling Congress
party and whose husband and mother-in-law were both assassinated.
Another depicted pigs running through Mecca, a holy site for
Muslims.  The government cleared the way for a privately brought
criminal prosecution of Google, Facebook and 19 other Internet
companies over the content, according to a Times of India report
of a lower-court hearing. An appeal to have the case quashed
will continue Feb 14. High Court Justice Suresh Kait told the
companies during an initial hearing that they faced a ban if
they failed to come up with a system to police content the
government finds objectionable.  China  bars Facebook, Twitter and other social media sites,
and blocks Google searches on sensitive subjects or key words.  Court Summons  The companies’ country heads have been summoned to appear
at a March 13 hearing of the lower court. Google India declined
to comment on that case because it is before a court,
spokeswoman Paroma Chowdhury said in an e-mailed statement.
Kumiko Hidaka, a spokeswoman for  Menlo Park ,  California-based
Facebook , didn’t respond to e-mails and a phone message seeking
comment.  India’s laws allow any individual to file so-called public
interest litigation on behalf of all citizens, and judges have a
track record of backing them against multinational corporations.
Under a 2008 law, the government can demand that Internet sites
remove content deemed objectionable within 36 hours of an
official request. Failure to comply can result in fines and
imprisonment for as long as seven years.  “While the court cases are ostensibly about technology and
complying with directives from a specific ministry, the larger
issue that’s being argued is about freedom of speech,” said
Pawan Duggal, a  New Delhi  lawyer who specializes in information
technology cases.  Salman Rushdie  Last month, “Satanic Verses” author  Salman Rushdie  pulled
out of the Jaipur Literature Festival on concern that local
authorities weren’t able to guarantee security if he spoke.  Rushdie’s 1988 novel led to death threats from Muslims who
accused him of blasphemy. Google sponsored three talks at Jaipur
that focused on dissent, and one on the Arab Spring.  “The core theme of this festival is freedom of expression,
which is also a core value of Google,” said Chowdhury, the
Google spokeswoman on Jan 24, during the festival.  The government is increasingly alert to the potential of
Internet-based technology to foment unrest in a country scarred
by a legacy of violence and terrorism. Anti-graft activists used
Facebook and Twitter’s messaging service to stir mass protests
that forced Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  to back legislation he
had opposed.  RIM Trouble  BlackBerry maker  Research in Motion Ltd . ran into trouble
in 2010 after the government threatened to shut it out of the
country unless the Waterloo, Canada-based company enabled
security services to monitor e-mails. Since January 2011, RIM
has let officials monitor its BlackBerry Messenger service,
while maintaining that access to encrypted e-mails of its
corporate customers must be given by the companies themselves.  Rather than risk a run-in with government, television
channels decided to regulate themselves. Starting in May, 24
members of the  Indian Broadcasting Federation  set up the
 Broadcast Contents Complaints Council , replacing an informal
self-censorship system that had lasted about five years.  “It has been left to the efforts of the broadcast media to
resist any government or quasi-government attempt at censorship
by invoking grounds such as obscenity, morality, decency, public
interest, race or religion,” the IBF said in a May press
release to which it directed Bloomberg News when asked for
comment.  Beef, Bum, Bras  The efforts the self-censors take to avoid government
scrutiny often “ends up ruining the pleasure of watching a
movie or TV show,” said media blogger Ninan.  In season six of “Friends,”  Jennifer Aniston  made
audiences around the world laugh when she mistakenly put beef in
a dessert. Indian viewers watching the hit television show would
miss the joke because Star blanks out the word to avoid
offending any of the nation’s more-than 800 million Hindus, for
whom the cow is sacred and its meat forbidden.  It’s not only religious sensitivities broadcasters seek to
avoid offending: hobos can’t be “bums” and fashion shows go
without “bras.” In “You Don’t Mess With the Zohan,”  Adam
Sandler ’s Israeli soldier turned New York hairdresser isn’t
allowed to say the word “terrorist.”  The IBF’s members, which include the Indian units of New
York-based  Viacom Inc (VIAB) ., Burbank, California-based Walt Disney Co.
and Bristol, Connecticut-based ESPN, run scrolls across
potentially risque shows advising viewers to contact the
complaints council if they object to the material.  The body received 3,441 complaints in the last six months
of 2011, the latest period for which the  IBF made data 
available. Among viewer complaints about disappointing plots and
bad reception, and suggestions for casting changes, 479
submissions were taken up.  -With assistance from Ruth David and Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai.
Editors:  Ben Richardson , John Brecher  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mehul Srivastava in New Delhi at 
 msrivastava6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Richardson at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  