-- Insurers Count Cost in Queensland as Floods Peak
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-02-08T01:05:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/insurers-count-cost-in-queensland-as-floods-peak-correct-.html
(Corrects story first published Feb. 7 to show that
estimates make take several weeks.)  Australia ’s insurers including
 Suncorp Group Ltd.  and  Insurance Australia Group Ltd. (IAG)  are
calculating the cost of floods that have inundated communities
in southwest Queensland and forced thousands from their homes.  The  Insurance Council  of Australia, whose members sell more
than 90 percent of the country’s premiums, said in a statement
it will take several weeks to gain a preliminary estimate of the
value of flood claims. The council last week declared a
catastrophe for the area after thousands of claims reached
insurers.  Hail, thunderstorms, floods and winds are forecast today
about 600 kilometers west of Brisbane, Queensland’s capital, the
Bureau of Meteorology  said . Authorities have evacuated towns and
built up levees, one year after natural disasters cost the
economy about A$9 billion ($9.7 billion).  “We’ll have a clearer picture when people return to their
homes and make claims,” said Chris Newlan, a spokesman for
Suncorp, the largest Brisbane-based insurer. “We’re still
determining overall numbers.”  The Balonne River at  St George , a town of about 3,000
people located 500 kilometers west of  Brisbane , will peak today
after rising to a record early yesterday, the Bureau of
Meteorology said. The river is expected to rise to about 14
meters (46 feet), below a previous forecast of 15 meters.  Suncorp  fell 0.6 percent to A$8.18 today in Sydney, its
third day of declines.  Insurance Australia Group , a Sydney-based
insurer known as IAG, fell 1 percent to A$2.87.  Severe Thunderstorms  “Severe thunderstorms are likely to produce damaging
winds, very heavy rainfall, flash flooding and large hailstones
in the warning area over the next several hours,” the bureau’s
Queensland office said in a statement at 11:44 a.m. local time
that covered an area stretching more than 500 kilometers
northwest from Goondiwindi, inland from Brisbane on the border
with New South Wales.  Floods in Queensland and the neighboring state of New South
Wales have caused an estimated A$50 million of damage, federal
Minister for Emergency Management  Robert McClelland  said in a
Feb. 3 statement. About 30,000 properties were affected in
Queensland last year by flooding that left dozens of people dead
and disrupted trade as mines were shut.  “IAG businesses have received around 600 claims from the
weather event that has predominantly impacted Moree in New South
Wales and southwest Queensland since Jan. 30,” Insurance
Australia said in a statement today. “Now that waters are
receding, assessors have been able to access impacted areas.”  Cotton Damage  The deluge may damage as much as 10 percent of the cotton
crop in Australia, the world’s third-biggest shipper, according
to Olam International Ltd.  PrimeAg Australia Ltd. , the agricultural investor that has
farms in New South Wales and Queensland, said flood damage has
been “minimal” so far, and farm dams have enough water to
irrigate crops in most areas for at least a year.  “PrimeAg infrastructure and crops have so far escaped
major flood damage,” Chief Executive Officer Peter Corish said
in a statement. “Our dryland cotton has benefited from the
recent rain and has the potential to perform well against
forecast production.”  PrimeAg rose 2.9 percent to A$1.06, its first advance in
four days.  Mechanical Diggers  Authorities in St George used mechanical diggers to build
barriers to contain the swollen river. Australian Broadcasting
Corp. footage today showed floodwaters coursing through the
town’s streets, almost covering road signs.  The water in the town reached the maximum height of the
levee in some sections,  Balonne Shire Council  said on its
website. The town is suffering from some sewerage failures, the
evacuation center is closed to new arrivals and residents are
barred from returning home, the council said. The Moonie
Highway, the main road heading east toward Brisbane, is closed.  In New South Wales,  emergency services  warned residents in
the rural towns of Bourke, about 700 kilometers northwest of
Sydney, Goodooga and Walgett to stock up on food, fuel, medicine
and other essential items and to relocate livestock to higher
grounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  