-- Intesa CEO Says ECB Funds to Be Used for Credit, Purchase of Italian Bonds
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-02-07T15:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/intesa-ceo-says-ecb-funds-to-be-used-for-credit-purchase-of-italian-bonds.html
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA  Chief Executive
Officer Enrico Tommaso Cucchiani said funding from the  European
Central Bank  will be used to provide credit and to purchase
Italian  government bonds .  “We will use part of the ECB funds to buy Italian
government bonds, considering that there are significant amounts
expiring this year,” he said today at a Milan conference.  Intesa,  Italy ’s second-biggest bank by assets, requested 12
billion euros ($16 billion) in the last ECB’s auction Dec. 21,
using bonds guaranteed by Italy as collateral. The lender
expects to participate at the next ECB’s refinancing operation,
Cucchiani said, adding that the amount of its request will
depend on the conditions offered.  The ECB, which gave Italian banks about 116 billion euros
of 1-percent three-year loans in December, will offer unlimited
funding on Feb. 29 in its second longer-term refinancing
operation.  “The ECB contributed to easing the access to the
liquidity, being essential for some banks and useful for other
banks, including Intesa,” Cucchiani told reporters.  Bond Buyback  Intesa isn’t considering additional repurchases of bonds
after announcing a buyback of as much as 3.8 billion euros
yesterday, Cucchiani said. The offer is part of the lender’s
effort to boost capital.  Cucchiani, who replaced Corrado Passera in November, said
that the bank received a high request of unsecured bonds sold by
the bank last week, a positive signal from investors. “Intesa’s
core Tier 1 ratio is enough to face the crisis,” he said.  Intesa, which is the only Italian bank under the European
Banking Authority’s review that doesn’t need additional capital,
had a core Tier 1 ratio of 10.2 percent as of Sept. 30. The
Milan-based-bank posted third quarter profit of 527 million
euros, and expects net income of 4.2 billion euros by 2013 and
5.6 billion euros in 2015.  “The bank is international enough, and already has what it
needs,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  