-- Iran Decries ‘Psychological Warfare’ as Israel Hails U.S. Bank Sanctions
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-02-08T00:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/iran-calls-u-s-sanctions-on-financial-institutions-psychological-warfare.html
Iran  dismissed the latest U.S.
sanctions against its financial institutions as “psychological
warfare” and said the Islamic Republic was open to “meaningful
talks” on its nuclear program.  Sanctions against Iran will fail to influence the nation’s
determination to pursue its “rights” and will have “no
impact,” Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  told
reporters yesterday in Tehran. His comments were aired live by
state-run Press TV.  In Washington, visiting Israeli Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said his nation appreciates the “very crucial
decision” by the U.S. to increase sanctions on Iran.  President Barack Obama Feb. 6 ordered a block on property
and interests in property belonging to the Iranian government,
its central bank and all Iranian financial institutions.  In addition, the European Union, collectively the No. 2
importer of Iranian oil in the first half of 2011, last month
approved a ban on Iranian oil purchases by the 27-nation bloc
set to take effect on July 1. Oil for March delivery increased
$1.50 a barrel, or 1.55 percent, yesterday to settle at $98.41
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  The U.S. and its allies are using economic and financial
sanctions to curb Iran’s nuclear program, which they say seeks
to achieve nuclear-weapons capability. Iran says its nuclear
program is for generating electricity and for medical uses.  Liberman’s visit to Capitol Hill, which followed a meeting
yesterday with Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , came as U.S.
officials such as Defense Secretary Leon Panetta have expressed
concern that  Israel  may unilaterally attack Iran’s nuclear
facilities.  Iran’s ‘Nuclear Ambitions’  “We are awaiting that the Iranians, they will give up
their nuclear ambitions,” Liberman said yesterday before
meeting with U.S. Senators  John McCain  of  Arizona , Republican of
Arizona,  Lindsey Graham , Republican of South Carolina, and  Joe Lieberman , independent of Connecticut.  Before discussions with Liberman, McCain said that
sanctions on Iran aren’t doing enough to force Iranians to
“renounce their path to the acquisition of nuclear weapons.”  Israel “obviously” has a “very serious threat,” McCain
said afterwards. “They want to work very closely with the
United States of America.”  McCain said that Liberman didn’t talk about what Israel’s
plans are regarding a possible attack on Iran, nor did he
discuss whether Israel would give the U.S. an advance notice of
such an attack.  ‘All Options’  While Liberman didn’t say it directly, “it’s so clear that
all options are on the table,” Representative Howard Berman,
the top Democrat on the House Foreign Affairs Committee, said in
an interview after panel members also met with the foreign
minister yesterday.  “He was very measured,” Representative Eliot Engel,
Democrat of  New York , said of the discussions with Liberman. “I
made the point that Democrats and Republicans are united to
stand with Israel in whatever decision it makes.”  Representative Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, the Florida Republican
who leads the House Foreign Affairs panel, said in an interview
that Liberman pointed out that Iran poses a problem for the U.S.
and its allies, so everyone will realize that it isn’t just
about saving Israel.  In Tehran, Mehmanparast said Iran has answered
“ambiguities” around its nuclear activities that were raised
by the  International Atomic Energy Agency .  Nuclear Inspectors  IAEA inspectors visited Iran for talks last month and are
expected to return to Tehran for further meetings. The IAEA
yesterday corrected the dates of the planned visit to Feb. 20-
21, according to an e-mailed statement. The Vienna-based agency
said previously the meetings in Tehran would take place Feb. 21-
22.  Iran has certain “measures on the agenda,” Mehmanparast
said in reply to a question about the possibility that his
country will preemptively cut exports to  Europe  in response to
the EU decision.  “It’s natural to say that when countries act as enemies,
they will face repercussions,” he said.  Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , pumped
about 3.545 million barrels of crude a day last month, a
Bloomberg survey showed, and exported an average 2.58 million
barrels a day in 2010, according to OPEC statistics.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Tehran at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  