-- Irish Urge Children to Leave as Export Gain Masks Lost Jobs
-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-02-07T09:12:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/irish-urge-children-to-leave-as-export-recovery-masks-lost-jobs.html
Anthony Roche is urging his
unemployed son to emigrate to Australia from Ireland to escape
 joblessness  stemming from the country’s economic collapse.  “I’ve seen the good times and the bad and these are the
worst,” Roche, 45, who works a day or two a week after closing
his business laying floors for bars and restaurants 18 months
ago, said outside a welfare office in Dublin. “There are plenty
of people there to work, but there isn’t any work out there.
That’s why people are leaving these shores again.”  While signs are emerging that Ireland is beginning to
recover 15 months after an international bailout, the government
says the economy is in the midst of the worst crisis since World
War II. The nation’s unemployment rate, at 14.2 percent in
January, is close to the highest level since the 1980s when the
country last endured similar austerity measures. Only Spain and
 Greece  have a higher jobless rate in the euro region.  Unemployment may climb to 14.6 percent this year, the
central bank forecast on Feb. 2, as companies such as  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc  and  Allied Irish Banks Plc  prepare to shed
more workers. Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said Feb. 5 that the
government is finalizing policies to provide assistance to
people at risk of being out of work for the long term and to
help small businesses with loans.  ‘Huge Problem’  “Unemployment is a huge problem for Ireland,” said
Michael O’Sullivan, head of portfolio strategy at Credit Suisse
Private Banking in  London . “Ireland has the additional strait-
jacket of the euro-zone austerity mantra, which for Ireland may
have the short-term effect of creating lots of unemployment.”  That has been masked by Ireland’s performance relative to
fellow rescue fund recipients Greece and  Portugal .  Irish bonds have delivered the best returns in the euro
area over the past year, as the  European Central Bank  bought the
nation’s debt and investors grew more confident that the
government will be able to pay its debts.  They returned 20 percent in euro terms over the past year,
according to an  index  compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Ireland’s October
2020 bonds, regarded as the benchmark, yielded 7.01 percent
today, down from 9.1 percent at the start of December. The yield
on the equivalent Greek security is 35 percent and 13.6 percent
on the Portuguese note.  Drug Sales  Exports grew about 4 percent last year, as U.S. companies
like Pfizer Inc. that operate in the country grow. The gains
haven’t been enough to offset job losses in the retail,
construction and financial-service industries.  Irish unemployment tripled to an average 14.2 percent last
year from 4.5 percent in 2007, as the economy shrunk by about 15
percent as a real-estate bubble collapsed. Emigration rose to
the highest since the 19th century in the 12 months ended last
April, with about 76,400 people leaving Ireland during the
period, according to the  Central Statistics Office .  Worse, over half have been jobless for more than a year and
with 30 percent of people aged 24 and under are out of work, the
office said in its quarterly employment survey.  “Unemployment among young people early on in their career
can have a scarring effect right through their working life,”
said Philip O’Connell, an analyst at the Dublin-based  Economic &
Social Research Institute . “There isn’t enough being done in
terms of encouraging and assisting people back to work.”  Experience Needed  Derek Walsh, 24, who graduated with a degree in mechanical
engineering in 2008, hasn’t been able to find a job in his
specialty since leaving college.  “There are more than a hundred people going for every
engineering job and they all demand experience,” Walsh said in
front of the welfare office. “It would even turn you off
looking at them. I’m looking at leaving this summer.”  Kenny swept to power last year with a promise to fix
Ireland’s “jobs crisis.” He said in November that his
government is aiming to create 100,000 positions by 2015. Last
year, the government reduced the  sales tax  to try and boost
jobs, and it has cut benefits of about 370 unemployed people
since April for not cooperating with measures to find work.  Many of the unemployed are “among our most talented” and
are “facing a dole queue or emigration,” Kenny said during a
Feb. 3 speech in Cork. “I, and the rest of cabinet, am working
day and night to get them into work.”  Burton’s Boost  The government is planning a partial loan guarantee for
smaller companies and a system of loans for startups. Welfare
Minister  Joan Burton  will detail this month a plan to figure out
those most at risk of long-term unemployment.  The new jobs initiatives may be too little too late,
according to James Wickham, head of the school of social
sciences at  Trinity College Dublin .  “They are pretty irrelevant now because it’s a demand
issue, and there are simply not jobs there,” Wickham said.
Measures that push people into jobs “assume there is employment
there, since it’s not the case at the moment, that would be
merely punitive and meaningless,” he said.  Outside the social welfare office in central Dublin just
off the campus of Trinity College, floor layer Roche says he is
bracing for a year of suffering.  “This is going to be the hardest year of all, much harder
than last year as the government is cutting everywhere,” he
said. “I am trying to get my youngest son to go  Australia  if he
can get a visa. I’ve told him we’ll even put together a bit of
money to send to him every month.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  