-- Israel Can’t Go It Alone on Iran Nuke Threat: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-02-07T00:10:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/israel-can-t-act-alone-on-iran-nuke-threat-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
On Sept. 4, 2003, three Israeli  air
force  F-15s flew low over the gates of the former death camp at
Auschwitz. On the ground -- on the train tracks, in fact,
leading to the gas chambers -- a delegation of Israeli military
officers stood at attention.  They listened as the lead pilot, then-Brigadier General
Amir Eshel, broadcast a statement from his cockpit: “We pilots
of the air force, flying in the skies above the camp of horrors,
arose from the ashes of the millions of victims and shoulder
their silent cries, salute their courage and promise to be the
shield of the Jewish people and its nation, Israel.”  Officers who attended the ceremony told me they dreamed, at
that moment, of somehow devising a way to send those planes back
in time, to bomb the tracks on which they stood while the cattle
cars were still rolling.  The Israeli air force, of course, had permission from the
Polish authorities to fly this extraordinary mission. But what
wasn’t known at the time was that the Poles and the Israelis
disagreed about the flight path. The Poles wanted the Israelis
to stay high in the air, above the clouds. Eshel, however,
disobeyed the Polish directive, and flew low, so the Israelis on
the ground could see him. In a story that has since become
famous among Israeli air force officers, Eshel told his fellow
pilots, “We had to listen to the Poles for 800 years. Today we
don’t have to listen anymore.”  ‘To Never Forget’  A photograph of the Auschwitz flyover hangs today in
offices across the Israeli defense establishment. In the
Ministry of Defense in  Tel Aviv , the photos I saw were signed by
General Eliezer Shkedi, who was the air force commander at the
time. The inscription on these photos read, “To remember. To
never forget. To rely on no one but ourselves.”  This past weekend, Eshel was appointed commander of the
Israeli air force. It will fall to him to plan and execute the
attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities, should Israeli Prime
Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  order him to do so. Senior U.S.
officials think that Netanyahu is preparing to launch such an
attack in the coming months.  Netanyahu has never kept hidden his feelings about Iran.
This is what he told me three years ago: “You don’t want a
messianic apocalyptic cult controlling atomic bombs. When the
wide-eyed believer gets hold of the reins of power and the
weapons of mass death, then the entire world should start
worrying.”  Iran  represents the definitive, post-Nazi Jewish nightmare:
a regime that openly argues for the destruction of Israel and is
seeking nuclear weapons. The Iranian supreme leader,  Ayatollah Ali Khamenei , said just last week, “The Zionist regime is a
cancerous tumor that should be removed and will be removed, God
willing.” The regime seems bent on building weapons that could
actually bring about the obliteration of Israel and its six
million Jews.  Zionism -- actual Zionism, not the malicious fever-dream
version of Zionism advanced by the clerics in Tehran -- demanded
that the world grant national equality to the Jewish people. It
also made a demand of Jews themselves: Count on no one, because
no one will come to your aid in your most dire moment. Over
Auschwitz, Eshel took symbolic revenge on the Poles who
humiliated the Jews in the centuries leading up to the
Holocaust. His then-commander saw in Auschwitz perfect proof
that the Zionist emphasis on self-reliance was correct.  Clear Message  Yet  Israel  hasn’t attacked Iran. Why? American officials
think the only reason is the active discouragement of the Obama
administration. The message from Obama to Netanyahu is clear:
We’ve got this. We won’t let Iran go nuclear, so please don’t do
anything yourselves. And if you attack, you may wind up hurting
us.  No Israeli prime minister has faced quite so difficult a
dilemma as the one Netanyahu faces now. To his east, Iran, an
anti-Semitic regime that seeks nuclear weapons and calls for
Israel’s elimination. To his west, the U.S., a country that is
Israel’s prime benefactor in a hostile world. Netanyahu
understands that a nuclear Iran could mean permanent insecurity
for his people, and eventual war. But he understands, too, that
his small nation would be adrift and friendless if it alienated
the U.S.  The self-reliant Zionist in him believes that it is his
duty, and his duty alone, to prevent a second Holocaust. But the
realist in him knows exactly where the F-15s that flew over
Auschwitz were made.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 