-- Italy Turns to Oil-Fired Power Plants as Russia Trims Supply
-- B y   B e n   F a r e y   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-02-07T16:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/italy-turns-to-oil-fired-power-plants-as-russia-trims-gas-supply.html
Italy  turned to oil-fired power
stations after lower Russian natural-gas deliveries forced the
country to declare an emergency as freezing conditions gripped
 Europe  and pushed up heating demand.  Italy’s industry ministry yesterday sanctioned the use of
six  Enel SpA -operated oil-fired  power plants  to reduce gas use.
Italian emergency gas reserves haven’t yet been used, it said.
Stocks of the fuel remain high across Europe due to a mild start
to the heating season which began in October. Imports of
liquefied natural gas by tankers may be boosted, the ministry
official said, declining to be named in line with policy.  “The situation is rather critical as  Russia  and  France 
reduced supplies,” Italian Development Minister  Corrado Passera 
told reporters in Milan yesterday. CustomWeather Inc. forecast
temperatures today of minus 8 degrees Celsius (18 Fahrenheit) in
Milan, northern Italy. It may drop to minus 10 Celsius by Feb.
10, according to the data.  Italy, Europe’s third-biggest gas user, imports about 20
percent of its supplies from Russia, the world’s biggest gas
exporter and producer. In 2010 Italy used 76.1 billion cubic
meters of the fuel, behind only the U.K. and  Germany  and more
than France, according to  BP Plc ’s Statistical Review of World
Energy.  Emergency Measures  Deliveries from Russia are progressively returning to
normal, and Italy is tapping as much as 150 million cubic meters
a day from storage, Gianni di Giovanni, a Rome-based spokesman
for ENI SpA, said on Sky TG24. At current rates, the stockpiles
will be depleted in 20 days, he said.  Gas for delivery through the rest of February at the Punto
di Scambio Virtuale, Italy’s gas-trading hub, rose 14 percent to
37 euros ($58.48) a megawatt-hour at 2 p.m. Italian time,
according to prices from ICAP Plc on Bloomberg. That’s a premium
of 30 percent compared with prices in the U.K. for the same
period.  Consumption in Italy reached 450 million cubic meters
yesterday, a level that requires the activation of emergency
measures in line with European Union policies, Deputy Industry
Minister Claudio de Vincenti told Sky TG24 yesterday.  Demand today is forecast at 455 million cubic meters, 46
percent more than on this day last year, Snam Rete said. Gas use
yesterday reached 461 million cubic meters.  Some industrial customers had supplies interrupted within
their contract terms, the ministry said yesterday. Households
won’t be affected by the emergency measures, it added.  Non-Russian Supplies  Gas was being delivered at Tarvisio on the Austria-Italy
border yesterday evening at a rate of about 85.2 million cubic
meters a day, about 18 percent below the requested level
according to data from Snam Rete SpA, owner and operator of
Italy’s gas-pipeline network. Tarvisio is where Russian gas
supplies arrive by pipeline in Italy.  Enel’s oil-fired plants at Livorno and Piombino are already
generating, according to a company spokesman who declined to be
named in line with company policy.  Gas storage sites in Italy were 59 percent full yesterday,
according to data from Gas Infrastructure Europe. That’s the
same as the European average.  Deliveries from supplies from other sources, such as North
Africa or Northern Europe, were stable or increasing, the
ministry said.  Russian Supplies at 89 Percent  Italy asked for 105.7 million cubic meters of gas to be
delivered from Russia at Tarvisio today, and is receiving 89
percent of that total, a Snam Rete official said, declining to
be named in line with company policy.  “This episode might have implications on the image of
Gazprom, but I’m not very concerned about the physical
shortage,” Laszlo Varro, head of the  International Energy
Agency ’s gas, coal and power market division, speaking by phone
from Beijing today.  European storage is high and the market is working well to
get gas where it needs to be, he said. “In an interconnected
market every country is a swing supplier,” Varro said.  Gas is arriving in Italy from  Libya  through the Greenstream
pipeline under the  Mediterranean Sea  at a rate of about 18
million cubic meters a day.  Algeria  supplies most of Italy’s gas through the Trans-
Mediterranean link from Algeria via  Tunisia  into Sicily at
Mazara del Vallo. About 98 million cubic meters of gas is
requested to arrive there today, up from deliveries of 94
million yesterday, according to Snam Rete.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Raj Rajendran at 
 rrajendran4@bloomberg.net  