-- Japan Cautious About Concessions Ahead of Trade Accord Talks in Washington
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 2012-02-07T04:44:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/japan-cautious-about-concessions-ahead-of-washington-trade-accord-talks.html
Japanese Foreign Minister  Koichiro Gemba  said the government is “cautious” ahead of talks today
on joining an Asia-Pacific trade bloc that will include demands
to eliminate tariffs on protected goods.  Japanese officials will meet with their American
counterparts in  Washington  to discuss participation in the U.S.-
led Trans-Pacific Partnership. Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  is
pushing to join the free trade group over the opposition of some
lawmakers concerned that slashing tariffs such as Japan’s 778
percent duty on rice will hurt farmers.  President Barack Obama is seeking to expand the nine-nation
talks to include Japan in what would be the biggest U.S. trade
deal since the 1994 North American Free Trade Agreement. U.S.
automakers oppose  Japan ’s participation, arguing the country
can’t be counted on to lower import barriers.  “We have heard many positive views but there are various
demands regarding tariff and non-tariff barriers,” Gemba told
reporters today in Tokyo. “We need to be cautious. We have to
first examine what the U.S. is requesting and decide on what we
can and cannot respond to.”  A dispute emerged almost immediately after Noda met Obama
in Honolulu in November at the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation
summit. The U.S. released a statement saying Noda said he was
willing to negotiate on all of his country’s goods and services
in the TPP talks, which Japan then denied.  “Our basic policy is to include all products in
liberalization talks while taking into consideration sensitive
items,” Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said today in
 Tokyo .  Agriculture Opposition  Noda has said Japan must open its markets to revitalize an
economy threatened by a strong currency, falling prices and the
impact from last year’s record earthquake and nuclear crisis.
Japan’s largest farm lobby submitted a petition in November with
almost 11.7 million signatures saying the trade deal would mean
the “collapse” of the agriculture industry, which accounts for
about one percent of gross domestic product.  Obama administration officials have welcomed Japan’s
interest in joining the talks while calling on the Tokyo
government to commit to free trade.  “It’s too soon to tell” whether Japan is “up to the task
of meeting the high standards that we expect,” Deputy U.S.
Trade Representative Demetrios Marantis told Congress in
December.  The American Automotive Policy Council, which represents
Ford Motor Co., General Motors Co. and Chrysler LLC, supports
the TPP while opposing Japan’s participation.  ‘Most Closed’  “Japan remains the most closed auto market to imports in
the developed world and the automotive sector currently
represents 70 percent of the total U.S. bilateral trade deficit
with Japan,” the group said in a Jan. 13  statement . “Japan’s
trade barriers in the auto sector cannot be addressed easily or
quickly, and will needlessly slow down the negotiations.”  Japanese automakers dispute that contention, saying
American cars don’t appeal to local consumers.  “Japan has no tariffs and has no restrictions on foreign
automakers,” Toshiyuki Shiga, chairman of the Japan Automobile
Manufacturers Association, said at a Nov. 15 press conference.
“It’s completely open.”  Two-way trade between the U.S. and Japan totaled $181
billion in 2010, more than the $171 billion in U.S. trade with
the eight other nations already in the talks, according to the
U.S. Commerce Department.  The other countries participating in the TPP are  Australia ,
 Chile , Peru,  Singapore ,  Malaysia ,  New Zealand , Vietnam and
Brunei.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  