-- Jazeera Blames Syria for Disrupting TV News Channel Broadcasting
-- B y   T a m a r a   W a l i d   a n d   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-02-07T14:44:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/jazeera-blames-syria-for-disrupting-tv-news-channel-broadcasting.html
Al Jazeera  said Syria is disrupting
broadcasting of its television news channel, as unrest in the
Middle Eastern country escalates and death toll rises.  Osama Saeed, a spokesman for Al Jazeera in Doha, Qatar,
said the disruption is coming from the Syrian capital, Damascus.
The channel is advising viewers to switch to a different
frequency to access coverage, he said.  The operator of the Hot Bird satellite that transmits the
TV station today confirmed the source of the recent disruption.  “Geo-localization reports indicate that recent jamming of
Al Jazeera satellite signals emanates from Syria,”  Eutelsat
Communications SA , the Paris-based satellite provider that
broadcasts about 4,000 channels, said in an e-mailed statement.  Saudi-owned Al Arabiya TV channel, which is also
transmitted via Hot Bird, is facing a similar issue, with the
source of disruption yet to be confirmed.  “It is difficult to identify the source of the disruption,
which started with the Arab revolutions,” Nasser Al Sarami,
head of media at Arabiya TV, said by phone yesterday. “As we
extend our coverage to what’s happening on the ground in  Syria ,
the disruptions intensify.”  Jihad Makdissi, a spokesman for the Syrian Foreign
Ministry, didn’t immediately respond to calls to his cell phone
or reply to an e-mail.  Broadcasts Banned  Syrian state-controlled television has frequently
criticized and banned the coverage of Al Jazeera and Arabiya of
the uprising. Syrian television has accused the channels of
instigating violence and guiding protests in Syria, where the
 United Nations  estimates that more than 5,400 people have been
killed since the unrest against President Bashar al-Assad began
last March.  Al Jazeera is funded by the Qatari government, which has
been at the forefront of Arab efforts to find a solution in
Syria through the  Arab League  and the UN Security Council. In
January, Qatar proposed sending Arab troops to Syria to halt the
violence.  The pan-Arab television news broadcaster came to global
prominence following the terrorist attacks on the U.S. on Sept.
11, 2001, when it showed videotaped messages from then al-Qaeda
leader Osama bin Laden.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tamara Walid in Dubai at 
 twalid@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  