-- Jeremy Lin Scores 28 in First NBA Start to Lead New York Knicks to Victory
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-07T05:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/jeremy-lin-scores-28-in-first-nba-start-to-lead-new-york-knicks-to-victory.html
Former Harvard University point guard
Jeremy Lin had 28 points and eight assists to lead the
shorthanded  New York Knicks  to a 99-88 win against the  Utah  Jazz
in his first National Basketball Association start.  Lin, who scored 25 points off the bench in a Feb. 4 win
against the  New Jersey Nets , continued his strong play last
night against Utah, hitting 10 of 17 shots.  “He has an attacking mentality,” coach  Mike D’Antoni  said
of Lin in his postgame news conference. “He can get into the
paint, he moves the ball, there’s no selfishness and he’s just
trying to read each play. I think he’ll get better, but he has
an innate ability to be able to see guys.”  It was the second straight win for the Knicks, who were
without Amar’e Stoudemire and lost  Carmelo Anthony  to a groin
injury. Stoudemire took a leave of absence yesterday after his
brother was killed in a car accident, while Anthony suffered a
strained groin five minutes into last night’s game.  Before their two-game winning streak, the Knicks had lost
11 of their previous 13 games. The brief turnaround can be
credited in part to Lin, who had scored 32 points in limited
action during his first nine games for the Knicks this season.  “I was just trying to hit shots, play solid defense and it
was a solid team effort,” Lin, 23, said in a televised
interview at Madison Square Garden. “We basically played off
the energy of the fans here in the arena.”  The 6-foot-3 Lin played four years at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Harvard and was a unanimous first-team all
Ivy League selection in 2010 as a senior. He joined the Knicks
in December after having been released by the Houston Rockets
and  Golden State Warriors .  Point Guard Help  Lin has provided a boost to a Knicks team that was in need
of help at point guard as Baron Davis continues to recover from
a back injury. While Lin had a game-high eight turnovers last
night, his ability to run the Knicks’ offense the past two games
has come as a surprise even to D’Antoni.  “When he worked out for us last year or two years ago, we
noticed he has a burst of speed that can get him there,”
D’Antoni said. “I didn’t know he could play defense, I didn’t
think he could shoot well enough and I didn’t think he could go
up and finish. I’m going, ‘He can’t finish, can’t shoot, can’t
play defense. I like his speed, but I don’t know.’  ‘‘Now he’s had the opportunity and he’s made the best of
it, that’s for sure,” D’Antoni added.  The Knicks improved to 10-15 and next play tomorrow at the
 Washington Wizards . D’Antoni said Anthony, who was averaging a
team-leading 23.3 points a game, is day-to-day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  