-- Mortgage Accord, JPMorgan, BofA, Dresdner in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-07T13:51:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/jpmorgan-smith-nephew-dresdner-ge-capital-fidelity-in-court-news.html
California  and  New York ’s attorneys
general haven’t signed on to a proposed settlement with five
banks over foreclosure practices that has won the support of
more than 40 states.  California’s Kamala Harris and New York’s  Eric
Schneiderman , who have pushed for changes to the deal, are among
those who hadn’t joined the agreement as of yesterday’s deadline
for states to decide. More than 40 states signed on to the
accord, according to Iowa Attorney General  Tom Miller , who is
helping to lead talks with the banks.  “Adding more numbers probably improves the political
dimension of the settlement from the standpoint of the attorneys
general,” said Ken Scott, a Stanford University law professor.
“If you can say there were only a handful of diehards that
didn’t sign on, that gives you some political protection.”  All 50 states announced almost 16 months ago they were
investigating bank foreclosure practices following disclosures
that faulty documents were being used to seize homes. Officials
from a group of state attorneys general offices and federal
agencies, including the  Justice Department , have since
negotiated terms of a proposed settlement with the five banks,
the nation’s largest mortgage servicers, that is said to be
worth as much as $25 billion.  Miller said federal and state officials continue to discuss
matters with the banks involved in the talks.  “This enables us to move forward into the very final
stages of remaining work,” Miller, a Democrat, said in a
statement yesterday.  Miller didn’t say which states have signed on and he
declined to comment further.  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . and  Wells Fargo
& Co . made a last-minute demand that New York drop claims filed
against them Feb. 3 as a condition of the settlement, a person
familiar with the matter said.  The push by the three banks raised a new obstacle in
getting Schneiderman’s support for the deal, said the person.
New York, along with California, Nevada and Delaware said late
yesterday they hadn’t signed on to the settlement.  New York sued Bank of America, JPMorgan and Wells Fargo in
state court in  Brooklyn , saying their use of a mortgage database
known as MERS led to improper foreclosures. Schneiderman said
the banks’ use of the Mortgage Electronic Registration Systems
database misled homeowners, undermined foreclosure proceedings
and created uncertainty about ownership interests in properties.  Dani Lever, a spokeswoman for Schneiderman, declined to
comment on the demand by the banks over the MERS lawsuit.  Mark Rodgers , a spokesman for New York-based Citigroup; Tom
Goyda of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo; Tom Kelly, a spokesman
at New York-based JPMorgan; and Gina Proia of Detroit-based Ally
Financial declined to comment on the settlement condition.  “We’re interested in finding a path forward with a
comprehensive settlement that benefits homeowners and
communities,” said  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America, declining to comment further.  For more, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  JPMorgan Agrees to Pay $110 Million in Overdraft Fee Case  JPMorgan Chase & Co. , the biggest U.S. bank by assets,
reached a preliminary agreement to pay $110 million to settle
litigation saying it gouged customers on overdraft fees for
checking accounts, court records show.  The settlement would resolve claims by customers including
Andrea Luquetta of  Los Angeles , who sued over fees charged to
debit cards attached to her checking account. U.S. District
Judge James Lawrence King in Miami must approve any settlement.
King had earlier rejected arguments by various banks that
customers were legally bound to arbitrate the dispute.  “We’re pleased to have reached an agreement in
principle,” Patrick Linehan, a JPMorgan spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  The litigation before King involves more than 30 banks sued
over their overdraft-fee policies. The customers say the banks
reorder debit-card transactions in their computers to maximize
overdraft fees.  Bank of America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S.
bank by assets, agreed last year to pay $410 million without
admitting liability to settle an overdraft lawsuit brought by
its customers.  In her lawsuit, filed in 2009, Luquetta claimed JPMorgan
engaged in “unfair, deceptive and unconscionable” assessment
and collection of overdraft fees. Her complaint also refers to
the practices of  Washington  Mutual Inc., which JPMorgan bought
in 2008.  Bruce Rogow, a lead attorney for the JPMorgan Chase
customers, wouldn’t comment on the accord. Another lead
attorney, Robert Gilbert, didn’t return a phone call or e-mail
seeking comment.  The case is In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-md-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  For more, click here.  Contorinis Must Pay $8.3 Million in SEC Lawsuit, Judge Rules  Joseph Contorinis, an ex- Jefferies Paragon Fund  money
manager, must pay $8.3 million in a U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission insider-trading suit, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard J. Sullivan in New York granted
the SEC summary judgment, or a ruling before trial, in a Feb. 3
order, citing the facts proved at an earlier criminal trial.  Contorinis was accused of illegally trading on inside tips
about bids for  Albertsons Inc.  supplied by Nicos Stephanou, an
investment banker who was the government’s chief witness in the
trial. Contorinis was convicted of securities fraud and
conspiracy in a scheme that federal authorities said netted more
than $7 million in illegal profits. He is serving a six-year
prison term.  Sullivan, who also presided at the criminal trial, rejected
the defense argument that Contorinis shouldn’t have to disgorge
funds that he “never received or enjoyed” and that he
personally profited by “a small percentage” of the illegal
gains.  “Defendant is fully capable for his crimes, from which he
profited substantially,” Sullivan wrote in his order.  “The jury’s verdict reflects defendant’s trades in ABS
occurred over a period of two months, revealing a high degree of
intent and a willingness to repeatedly exploit misappropriated
information,” Sullivan wrote, referring to Albertsons by its
ticker symbol.  Stephanou, a longtime friend of the defendant employed as
an investment banker at UBS AG, testified he passed him
nonpublic information regarding efforts by Cerberus Capital
Management LP, to acquire Albertsons, which was then the second-
biggest U.S. grocer.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stephanou, 1:09-cv-011042, and the criminal case is U.S. v.
Contorinis, 09-cr-01083, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York ( Manhattan ).  Smith & Nephew Settles Bribe Cases With U.S. for $22 Million  Smith & Nephew Plc ,  Europe ’s biggest maker of artificial
hips and knees, agreed to pay $22.2 million to settle
allegations by the U.S. Justice Department and Securities and
Exchange Commission that it engaged in a scheme to pay bribes in
 Greece .  Smith & Nephew admitted in filings yesterday in federal
court in Washington that two of its units were involved in a
scheme for more than a decade to make “illicit payments” to
doctors employed by government hospitals or agencies in Greece
in violation of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The London-based company, which entered into a deferred
prosecution agreement with the U.S., agreed to pay a $16.8
million fine to settle the criminal allegations and another $5.4
million to settle a civil suit filed by the SEC.  “Smith & Nephew’s subsidiaries chose a path of corruption
rather than fair and honest competition,” Kara Novaco
Brockmeyer, chief of the SEC enforcement division’s FCPA unit,
said in a statement. “The SEC will continue to hold companies
liable as we investigate the medical device industry for this
type of illegal behavior.”  “We have what I believe to be a world-class compliance
program, having enhanced it significantly since this
investigation began in 2007,” Olivier Bohuon, Smith & Nephew’s
chief executive officer, said in a statement. “These legacy
issues do not reflect Smith & Nephew today.”  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
 Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) , 12-00187, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  For more, click here.  Ex-AFG Chief Hand Gets 8 to 16 Years for Witness Murder Plot  Ex-AFG Financial Group Inc. Chief Executive Officer Aaron
Hand, already imprisoned for his role in a fraudulent $100
million mortgage scheme, was sentenced to eight to 16 years in
prison after he pleaded guilty to plotting to kill a witness who
testified against him.  Hand was sentenced in New York State Supreme Court
yesterday by Justice Laura Ward, before whom he pleaded guilty
in January to one count of conspiracy to commit murder. Hand,
40, was ordered in 2010 to serve as long as 25 years in prison
and the new sentence will run consecutive with that, prosecutors
have said.  “The defendant’s actions strike at the heart of the
justice system,” Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus R. Vance Jr.
said in a statement in January. “Nothing is more important than
the safety of witnesses.”  Hand pleaded not guilty when he was charged in October. His
lawyer at the time, Kevin Canfield, said his client was
entrapped by the police.  “Entrapment is an extremely difficult affirmative
defense,” Hand’s lawyer, Lee Ginsberg, said outside court
yesterday. “This was a more appropriate way to resolve the
situation.”  Hand was the mastermind of a mortgage scheme that defrauded
 Bank of America Corp. ,  Wells Fargo & Co.  and other banks,
according to Vance’s office, which said it won convictions
against all 27 people charged.  The case is People v. Hand, 4870/2011, New York Supreme
Court (Manhattan).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Pfizer, Ranbaxy Sued Over Alleged Anti-Competitive Scheme  Pfizer Inc.  and  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.  were sued in an
antitrust case filed in federal court in New York alleging the
drugmakers engaged in an anti-competitive scheme to delay a
generic version of Lipitor into the market.  The AFL-AGC Building Trades Welfare plan, a health and
welfare benefit plan based in Mobile, Alabama, claims that two
drugmakers engaged in a monopolization scheme after the Pfizer’s
original patent for the cholesterol-lowering drug expired on
March 24, 2010.  In the proposed class-action, or group, lawsuit, the
plaintiffs allege the drug companies agreed to delay the entry
of generic Lipitor for 20 months. As a result of an unlawful
agreement with generic-maker Ranbaxy, Pfizer cost purchasers to
pay more for Lipitor than they would have paid for the generic
version of the drug.  “Defendants’ scheme was successful -- generic Lipitor did
not become available for sale until November 2011,” the
plaintiffs said. “As a result of defendants’ illegal acts,
plaintiffs and the indirect purchaser class were forced to pay
billions of dollars more for Lipitor than they would have absent
defendants’ anticompetitive scheme.”  Both drugmakers were sued in a complaint making similar
allegations filed in federal court in  San Francisco  by 11
California pharmacies in November. In that case, the plaintiffs
alleged that they held back on a generic version of the
cholesterol-lowering drug in the U.S. and then fixed its price.  “The Federal Trade Commission reviewed the terms of the
2008 settlement,” Chris Loder, a Pfizer spokesman said in a
telephone interview. “Pfizer believes the suit has no merit. We
are confident that the Lipitor patent settlement with Ranbaxy is
appropriate,” he said.  Chuck Caprariello, a spokesman for Ranbaxy, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message left at his office
seeking comment on the complaint.  The case is AFL-AGC Building Trades Welfare Plan, v.  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  12-CV-931, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  Sloan-Kettering, Celgene Sued Over Cancer Research Deal  The head of  Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center  was
accused along with biotechnology company  Celgene Corp.  of using
research he helped develop at another cancer institute to start
his own company.  The Leonard and Madlyn Abramson Family Cancer Research
Institute at Philadelphia’s University of Pennsylvania sued Dr.
Craig Thompson in federal court in Manhattan for fraudulent
misrepresentation, asking a judge to decide on the ownership of
intellectual property rights to the research. The institute
seeks damages from Thompson of more than $1 billion, according
to the complaint.  Thompson studied cancer metabolism while he was scientific
director of the institute, which was created by a $100 million
donation from the Abramson family foundation to the university,
according to the complaint filed Dec. 13. Without telling the
institute, Thompson formed Agios Pharmaceuticals Inc. to exploit
the research and got funding from Summit, New Jersey-based
 Celgene , the institute said.  At Sloan-Kettering, Thompson’s laboratory studies how cells
use nutrients and how that affects DNA and cell growth,
according to the hospital’s website. Cancer occurs when cells
divide and grow out of control. Agios is working to develop
drugs with the ability to “starve” cancer cells of the
nutrients they need to survive, according to the company’s
website.  “The allegations in this lawsuit are unfounded and without
merit,” Thompson said yesterday in a statement. “It is
unfortunate that the Abramson Family Cancer Research Institute
has chosen to go down this path.”  Kathy Lewis, a spokeswoman for Sloan-Kettering, and Jay
Mayresh, a lawyer for Celgene, declined to comment on the suit.  Agios was also sued.  “While Agios does not comment on the specifics of pending
litigation, the claims asserted in this case are without
merit,” a spokesman for Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Agios
said in a statement. “There are no allegations of wrongdoing by
Agios.”  Allan Arffa, an attorney for Thompson, didn’t return a
phone message. Jay Mayresh, a lawyer for Celgene, declined to
comment.  The case is Leonard and Madlyn Abramson Family Cancer
Research Institute v. Thompson, 11-09108, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  BofA Investor Suit Over Merrill Deal Granted Class Status  A  Bank of America Corp.  investor lawsuit claiming the
company misled shareholders about the acquisition of Merrill
Lynch & Co. may proceed as a class action, a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan ruled
yesterday that the claims in the case may go forward on behalf
of all investors who held Bank of America common stock and call
options from Sept. 18, 2008, to Jan. 21, 2009. Castel also
certified a class of investors who held common stock on Oct. 10,
2008, and were entitled to vote on the Merrill acquisition.  “Given the potential class size and the likelihood that
individual recovery for some class members may be relatively
modest, class certification is appropriate,” Castel wrote.  The suit, filed in 2009, claims Bank of America failed to
disclose information about bonuses to Merrill employees and
about the firm’s financial losses in the fourth quarter of 2008.
The decision to grant class status allows investors to pool
resources and gives their lawyers more leverage to push for a
settlement with the bank.  Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, declined to
comment on the ruling.  The case is In re  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Securities,
Derivative and ERISA Litigation, 09-mdl-2058, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  GE Capital Accused of Not Telling AerCap About Brazil Suit  General Electric Co.’s  financial services unit was sued by
units of  AerCap Holdings NV (AER)  for allegedly failing to tell the
aircraft-leasing company about a lawsuit in  Brazil .  According to a complaint filed Feb. 3 in New York State
Supreme Court in Manhattan, a lawyer for General Electric
Capital Corp. told  AerCap  in February 2010 that the company was
liable for “millions of dollars” in a court case involving
Transbrasil SA, the bankrupt Brazilian airline.  The airline had sued GE and AerCap in February 2001 to void
promissory notes issued in 1999 in connection with the leases of
two engines and an aircraft, according to the complaint. GE lost
an appeal of a 2007 judgment entered against AerCap and other
defendants, and Transbrasil is asking Brazilian courts to
enforce the judgment, according to the complaint.  “GE had concealed from AerCap that it was named as a
defendant in the lawsuit and had directed the defense of the
lawsuit -- with catastrophic results -- without AerCap’s
knowledge or consent since 2001,” AerCap said in the complaint.  Transbrasil has said the appeals court decision entitles it
to about $223 million, including interest, from AerCap and other
defendants, according to the complaint.  General Electric hasn’t been served with the lawsuit and
doesn’t comment on pending litigation, Daniel Whitney, a
spokesman for GE Capital Aviation Services, said in an e-mail.  The case is AerCap Ireland Ltd. v. General Electric Capital
Corp., 650341/2012, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Oracle Seeks New Trial Against SAP After Verdict Dismissed  Oracle Corp . has elected for a new trial against  SAP AG  for
alleged copyright infringement, rejecting a judge’s decision to
reduce a $1.3 billion jury verdict against SAP to $272 million,
according to a court filing.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
California, threw out the $1.3 billion verdict in September,
calling it “grossly excessive,” and said SAP should get a new
trial if Oracle rejects her decision to reduce the amount to
$272 million.  “Oracle’s objective is to obtain clarification of the law
and, if it is right about what the law is and what the evidence
supports in this case, to vindicate the verdict of the jury and
Oracle’s intellectual property rights as a copyright owner,”
Oracle attorney Geoffrey Howard said in a filing yesterday in
federal court in Oakland.  In the trial, Oracle accused SAP’s TomorrowNow software-
maintenance unit of making hundreds of thousands of illegal
downloads and several thousand copies of Oracle’s software.
Oracle said SAP’s aim was to avoid paying licensing fees and to
steal customers.  Jim Dever, an SAP spokesman, didn’t return a voice=mail
message left after regular business hours seeking comment about
the filing.  The case is Oracle v. SAP, 07-1658, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (Oakland).  Ex-Dresdner CEO Jentzsch Says Promised Bonuses for ‘Stability’  Stefan Jentzsch, the former chief executive officer of
Dresdner Kleinwort’s investment bank, said he promised to set
aside 400 million euros ($523 million) for bonuses in 2008 to
retain workers and ensure the firm’s “safety and stability.”  He testified at a London trial yesterday where more than
100 former Dresdner bankers are suing  Commerzbank AG  over the
bonuses outlined by Jentzsch at a company meeting in 2008. They
say Commerzbank, which bought Dresdner in 2009, went back on his
pledge and are seeking individual payouts of as much as 2
million euros.  The objective in promising the payments was “first and
foremost to ensure the safety and stability of the firm,”
Jentzsch said in his first witness testimony at the trial.
“That was what the FSA was concerned about.”  The U.K. Financial Services Authority had put Dresdner on
its watch list in 2008 because it was worried key staff would
leave while the future of the investment-banking division was
being decided by then-owner  Allianz SE. (ALV)  Jentzsch said bonuses
should be given out based on an employee’s performance during
that specific year, and that it was “cynical” to decide a
bonus based on “whether or not that department or person is of
use going forward.”  Commerzbank CEO  Martin Blessing  testified last week,
defending the German lender’s decision to cut bonus awards at
Dresdner by 90 percent or more in 2009. He said losses caused by
the financial crisis justified the move, and that bankers should
by motivated by loyalty, not just money.  The bankers’ cases include: Mr. Fahmi Anar & Others v.
Dresdner Kleinwort Ltd., Commerzbank AG, High Court of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, HQ09X05230 and Richard Attrill & 71
others v. Dresdner Kleinwort Limited,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) ,
HQ09X04007.  Fidelity’s Stairs Believed Chaoda Share Sale News Was Public  Fidelity Management & Research Co.’s George Stairs believed
share placement information he was given by  Chaoda Modern
Agriculture Holdings Ltd. ’s chairman and chief financial officer
was public, a  Hong Kong  inquiry heard.  Chaoda management said nothing to Stairs to indicate he
would be precluded from trading shares of the Chinese vegetable
supplier, according to a letter from Fidelity’s lawyers
presented in evidence on the first day of a  Market Misconduct
Tribunal  hearing.  Stairs, then a portfolio manager at Fidelity Management,
traded Chaoda’s shares after being told on a conference call by
Kwok Ho, the company’s chairman and Andy Chan, its chief
financial officer, about a June 2009 share placement before the
information was public, Hong Kong’s government alleges.  Stairs netted proceeds of HK$1.98 million ($255,299) for
his  funds  by selling shares prior to the placement and then
buying more in the stock sale at a lower price, according to a
government  notice . The call was one of six arranged by Merrill
Lynch (Asia Pacific) Ltd. between Chaoda management and
institutional investors.  Boston-based Fidelity Investments conducted a thorough
internal review of the matter in 2009 and believes that Stairs
didn’t violate any laws or regulations, according to spokesman
 Vincent Loporchio . “We have a zero-tolerance policy with regard
to the misuse of material non-public information,” Loporchio
wrote in an e-mail before the hearing.  Mark Tsang, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Bank of
America, which bought Merrill Lynch in 2009, declined to comment
on the inquiry and whether the investors were asked if they were
willing to receive material non-public information on condition
of refraining to trade on such information, also known as wall
crossing.  Kwok, who has denied the allegations, and Stairs, now in a
research position at Fidelity, declined to comment yesterday on
the proceedings.  For more, click here.  Stanford Claimed $5.1 Billion, Had $173 Million Cash, CFO Said  R. Allen Stanford told his top brokers in late 2008 that
his Antiguan bank “was sitting on $5.1 billion” more cash than
it needed, while his treasury manager was privately e-mailing
him that there was just $173.6 million cash on hand, Stanford’s
former finance chief testified.  “At the present burn rate of withdrawals we had 35 days to
45 days of cash left,” James M. Davis, the former Stanford
Financial Group Co. chief financial officer, told jurors at
Stanford’s criminal trial in federal court in Houston.  Davis, who is testifying under a plea deal, said customers
spooked by the global financial meltdown accelerated redemptions
of certificates of deposit from Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd. in the second half of 2008. By December
of that year, the bank’s cash balance had dropped to $88.2
million, according to an e-mail shown to jurors.  Stanford, who was monitoring the bank’s falling cash
balance on “pretty much a daily basis at that point,” Davis
said, decided to shore up investor confidence and slow the run
on the bank by making a $541 million capital infusion from his
personal assets.  “He told me just to make a paper entry into the accounting
records that it had been made,” Davis told U.S. District Judge
David Hittner, who is presiding over Stanford’s trial.  “How would that pay off people at the bank if it was just
a paper entry?” Hittner asked Davis. “It was just to stop the
withdrawals and get more CD purchases coming in?”  Davis replied that was the plan.  Stanford, 61, denies all wrongdoing in connection with 14
criminal charges of mail fraud, wire fraud and obstructing a
Securities and Exchange Commission investigation. He faces as
long as 20 years in prison if convicted of the most serious
charges, and has been imprisoned as a flight risk since his
indictment in June 2009.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Court News  Health-Care Case Tests Supreme Court’s Ban on Live Broadcasts  The historic U.S. Supreme Court battle over President
Barack Obama’s signature health-care legislation -- with 5 1/2
hours of arguments planned over three days on a matter that
affects every American and may influence the 2012 elections --
will test the justices’ refusal to allow live broadcasts of
their proceedings.  Lawmakers and media organizations are pressing for live
television coverage, or failing that, live audio, in a case that
will determine whether the government can force people to obtain
insurance. The length of the arguments has few precedents in
modern court history, and the case will be the court’s highest
profile since the battle between George W. Bush and Al Gore in
the 2000 presidential election.  “This is the focusing event and this puts more pressure on
the court just because of the high level of interest,” said
Lawrence Baum, a political science professor at Ohio State
University in Columbus.  The court has given no indication it will relent on its ban
of live broadcasts, and court observers said it’s unlikely. Even
as Americans have come to expect live coverage of news events,
the justices have made their marble courtroom a technology-free
zone, barring spectators from using recording devices,
telephones and cameras. The court releases its own audio
recordings at the end of the week and has never allowed video,
even on a delayed basis.  Justices are considering requests from a dozen lawmakers
and more than 30 media organizations, including Bloomberg News,
seeking live coverage. They say that there’s a strong national
interest in watching live arguments over an issue that touches
everyone and affects the economy and presidential election.  Justices will hear arguments in the health-care case --
which pits the Obama administration against 26 states -- from
March 26 to March 28, an unusual series. Justices generally hear
arguments for a single hour in each case.  The court will consider whether Congress overstepped its
authority by requiring Americans to acquire health insurance or
pay a penalty. Republican presidential candidates repeatedly
have criticized the measure and demanded its repeal. However the
court rules during the presidential contest under way, it will
become a central issue of the 2012 campaign.  For more, click here.  On the Docket  Vulcan-Martin Marietta Bid Dispute Set for Trial Feb. 28  A dispute between  Vulcan Materials Co.  and  Martin Marietta
Materials Inc.  over a $4.7 billion hostile takeover bid by
Martin Marietta will be heard at a Feb. 28 trial before the
chief Chancery Court judge in Delaware.  Judge Leo Strine Jr. in Wilmington approved a scheduling
order yesterday to hear the case through March 2 on a fast-track
basis, according to court records.  Martin Marietta, based in Raleigh, North Carolina, used
“an unlawful scheme to pursue a hostile takeover of Vulcan
through the wrongful use and disclosure of Vulcan’s confidential
information,” Vulcan lawyer Collins J. Seitz Jr. wrote in a
pretrial brief.  Vulcan, based in Birmingham, Alabama, was sued by Martin
Marietta Dec. 12, with Martin Marietta seeking “a declaration
that the Non-Disclosure Agreement does not prohibit Martin
Marietta’s public offer to purchase all issued and outstanding
shares of Vulcan’s common stock in exchange for Martin
Marietta’s stock,” a lawyer for Martin Marietta, Robert S.
Saunders wrote in the complaint.  The case is Martin Marietta Materials v. Vulcan Materials,
CA7102, Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 