-- Kenya Airways Heads for Lowest Close in 3 Years: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2012-02-07T11:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/kenya-airways-heads-for-lowest-close-in-3-years-nairobi-mover.html
Kenya Airways Ltd. , sub-Saharan
 Africa ’s third-biggest airline by passenger numbers, fell for a
second day in Nairobi trading, heading for its lowest close in
almost three years before a planned rights offer.  The stock of KQ, as the airline is known, dropped 2.1
percent to 18.5 shillings by 11:43 a.m. in the Kenyan capital. A
close at that level would be the lowest since March 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It appears people think a rights issue is going to be
dilutive and are reducing their positions ahead of the
announcement and maybe buy back when they know the level of
dilution,” Eric Musau, a research analyst at Nairobi-based
Standard Investment Bank Ltd., said by phone today.  The carrier is looking to fund expansion in Africa with the
rights offer. KQ plans to increase the number of aircraft to 107
by 2020 from 34 while raising the number of destinations to 115
destinations from 56, according to an e-mailed statement on Feb.
5. The national carrier also plans to have twelve cargo
freighters by 2022. It plans to raise as much as 23 billion
shillings ($276 million),  Business Daily , a Nairobi-based
newspaper, reported on June 6, citing the  Finance Ministry .  “KQ wants to grow too, but the rights issue to kick start
a new round of aircraft purchases is tough to place,”
 Renaissance Capital  said today in an e-mailed note. “Even if
successful, the risks are high, as competition for travel in
Africa is getting stronger, and we believe the state of Nairobi
airport does not make it an obvious hub.”  Crested Stock & Securities Ltd. of  Uganda  and Orbit
Securities Co. of Tanzania have been appointed to advise on the
offering in the respective countries, the Nairobi-based carrier
said in an e-mailed statement on Feb. 5. Standard Investment
Bank is the lead sponsoring broker in  Kenya , while CFC Stanbic
Holdings Ltd. is the lead transaction adviser for the rights
offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  