-- Komen Official Handel Resigns After Funding Feud With Planned Parenthood
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   M a r g a r e t   N e w k i r k
-- 2012-02-07T21:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/komen-official-karen-handel-resigns-over-planned-parenthood-funding-feud.html
Karen Handel, a senior vice president
of public policy for Susan G. Komen for the Cure, resigned after
the breast-cancer group decided to overturn a decision to end
grants to  Planned Parenthood  Federation of America.  Handel, who ran unsuccessfully for governor in  Georgia  in
2010, today criticized Planned Parenthood for its “guerilla
tactics,” saying “for an outside organization to come in like
they did and conduct this shakedown is outrageous.”  The Komen organization’s decision to end about $680,000 in
grants drew thousands of online protests and complaints and
helped Planned Parenthood raise $3 million in reaction. Komen on
Feb. 3 said it had changed its policies in a way that would
allow New York-based Planned Parenthood to apply for grants.  Handel said at a news conference today that while she
doesn’t think Komen should fund Planned Parenthood, she left her
personal feelings at the door when she took the job. Handel
declined a severance package.  “Today I accepted the resignation of  Karen Handel ,” said
Komen Chief Executive Officer Nancy Brinker in an e-mailed
statement. “I have known Karen for many years, and we both
share a common commitment to our organization’s lifelong
mission.”  Komen Pressured  Planned Parenthood earlier had said Komen was pressured to
end the grants by anti-abortion forces. Today, Handel said that
Planned Parenthood “unleashed a premeditated and vicious attack
on not only Komen but Ambassador Brinker.”  Brinker, who is also a founder of Komen, served as
ambassador to  Hungary  from 2001 to 2003 under  George W. Bush ’s
administration, according to the embassy’s website.  Komen had said it ended the grants because Planned
Parenthood was under investigation by Representative  Cliff Stearns , a Florida Republican and chairman of the House Energy
and Commerce Oversight and Investigations Subcommittee, into
whether Planned Parenthood is illegally using government money
for abortions.  Komen had originally said it changed its criteria to deny
money to any organization under federal, state, or local
investigation. The criteria were later amended to make it clear
that the investigations must be criminal and conclusive.  Handel’s Blog  Handel wrote in a blog during her 2010 gubernatorial race
for the Republican nomination that she would eliminate any state
grants for organizations that supply abortions such as Planned
Parenthood which, she wrote, “I do not support.”  The posting was in response to a campaign attack targeting
a 2005 vote approving a grant for Planned Parenthood during the
time she served as a country commissioner. She defended that
vote in the blog, writing that it merely confirmed pass-through
funding of state and federal dollars for breast and cervical
cancer screening.  The debate over abortion percolates in American politics,
and has figured in the 2012 campaign for the Republican
nomination for president as candidates such as former
Massachusetts Governor  Mitt Romney , former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  have
pledged to stop abortions in almost all cases.  MoveOn.org, a political supporter of President  Barack Obama 
that had called on Komen to reverse its decision, said Handel’s
resignation is “welcome news to hundreds of thousands of MoveOn
members,” said Elena Perez, the campaign director for the
organization, in an e-mailed statement.  Credo, a mobile phone company and Planned Parenthood’s
biggest corporate sponsor, called Handel’s actions “damaging”
and characterized her resignation as “a victory for women’s
health” in an e-mailed statement.  “Karen Handel was sick and tired of being held hostage by
the largest pro-abortion lobby in the country when she and the
Komen Foundation were supposed to be focused on saving women’s
lives,” said Kristian Hawkins, the executive director of
Students for Life of America, an anti-abortion advocacy group,
in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Newkirk in Atlanta  at 
 mnewkirk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 