-- Naira Advances on Speculation of Nigerian Central Bank’s Support
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-07T11:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/naira-advances-on-speculation-of-nigerian-central-bank-s-support.html
The naira strengthened against the
dollar on speculation the central bank of  Africa ’s top crude
producer will keep the currency stable to prevent a build-up of
inflation.  The currency appreciated 0.1 percent to 160.21 as of 10:54
a.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Gasoline prices in Africa’s most populous country surged by
almost 50 percent last month, stoking inflation which touched
10.3 percent in December. President  Goodluck Jonathan 
backtracked on an earlier decision to scrap fuel subsidy in
 Nigeria  after gasoline costs more than doubled, prompting
protests and strikes. He has not reinstated subsidy to levels
that existed prior to the withdrawal, agreeing only to a partial
climbdown.  “The Central Bank of Nigeria is anxious to hold the line
on the  exchange rate ,” Gregory Kronsten, chief economist at FBN
Capital Ltd. in  London , wrote in a note to clients today. “Its
determination will have been enhanced by the imminent spike in
headline inflation as a result of the fuel price increase last
month. The exchange rate has a greater influence on inflation
than monetary policy.”  A rising government spending threatens to keep inflation
above the central bank’s target of 10 percent, Governor Lamido Sanusi said Jan. 31 and added he favors a stable exchange rate
while building up reserves.  The foreign-exchange reserves of Africa’s most populous
nation have increased 5.5 percent this year to $34.7 billion as
of Feb. 2, according to the central bank.  “The increase this year is not explained by the oil price
and could have been driven by an easing of foreign exchange
demand,” said Kronsten.  Ghana ’s cedi strengthened less than 0.1 percent to 1.6848
per dollar as of 10:08 a.m. in Accra, the capital, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  