-- NeurogesX Shares Plunge After FDA Staff Says Pain Patch Might Not Work
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-07T21:19:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/neurogesx-shares-plunge-after-fda-staff-says-pain-patch-might-not-work.html
NeurogesX Inc.  plunged the most in
almost three years after U.S. regulators questioned whether the
specialty drugmaker proved its patch relieves pain related to
nerve damage commonly associated with HIV.  NeurogesX fell 24 percent to 88 cents at the close of New
York trading, its biggest decline since March 2009. The company,
which hasn’t reported an annual profit since selling shares in
2007, has fallen 83 percent in the past 12 months.  Food and Drug Administration  staff raised questions in a
 report  today about whether the prescription-strength capsaicin
patch called Qutenza proved “substantial efficacy” in treating
pain caused by neuropathy linked to the virus. Advisers to the
agency are scheduled to meet Feb. 9 to discuss  San Mateo ,
California-based NeurogesX’s patch.  “It was a mixed data set to begin with so it’s not
surprising to see some criticism on the part of the agency,”
Gregory Wade, an analyst with Wedbush Securities Inc., said in a
telephone interview.  Wade said he expects a panel recommendation in favor of
approval. Still, a Qutenza clearance for HIV patients won’t
change an “absence of success with its existing marketplace,”
he said.  “I don’t think there is a great difference between the
market for HIV and what it addresses now,” Wade said.  Nerve Damage  One-third of people with HIV/AIDS experience peripheral
nerve damage caused by the virus or drugs used to treat it,
according to the  Center for Peripheral Neuropathy  at the
 University of Chicago . More than 1.1 million in the U.S. are
estimated to be  infected  with HIV, according to the Atlanta-
based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  “It would not be in the best interest of these patients
for us to approve a product for which substantial evidence of
efficacy has not been demonstrated, or one for which the
benefits do not clearly outweigh the risks,” Bob Rappaport,
director of the agency’s division of anesthesia, analgesia and
addiction products, wrote in a letter in the report.  The FDA is scheduled to decide whether to approve Qutenza
by March 7. The agency doesn’t have to follow the advisory
panel’s recommendation.  No Drugs  No FDA-approved drugs exist for HIV-associated neuropathy,
according to NeurogesX. Painkillers and narcotics are
recommended to treat the condition, according to the Center for
Peripheral Neuropathy. Capsaicin is the chemical that makes
chili peppers hot.  The FDA approved Qutenza in November 2009 for lasting pain
after a shingles infection. The product sells for $675 a patch
and has almost 1,000 customers, Anthony DiTonno, former
president and chief executive officer, said at the Lazard
Healthcare Conference, according to a Nov. 18 transcript.  The FDA found one test showed Qutenza worked when used for
90 minutes and failed to show effectiveness when used for an
hour or 30 minutes. Later analyses based on alternative testing
showed the 30-minute application worked, the agency said.  Qutenza failed to show efficacy in both hour-long and 30-
minute uses in a second study, according to FDA’s staff report.
Again using alternative testing later, the patch showed it
worked in the 30-minute application.  The agency is asking the advisory panel to determine
whether the studies provided substantial evidence the patch
works for HIV-associated neuropathy and whether Qutenza should
be approved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  