-- Giants Celebrate Super Bowl Win in NY and NJ
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-07T21:52:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/new-york-giants-to-commemorate-super-bowl-win-with-two-state-celebration.html
The  New York  Giants took the Super
Bowl trophy on a parade up the “Canyon of Heroes” in lower
Manhattan and received the keys to New York City as part of
today’s two-state celebration of their second National Football
League championship in five years.  As many as 1 million spectators may have attended the
ticker-tape parade hosted by the city, according to Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg ’s office. Giants co-owner John Mara called it
“an experience none of us will ever forget.”  The team then traveled to MetLife Stadium, its home field
in  East Rutherford , New Jersey, to mark its 21-17 Super Bowl win
against the  New England Patriots . The Giants also beat the
Patriots to win the  Super Bowl  following the 2007 season.  “The  New York Giants  are proud to represent the greatest
city in the world and the great state of New Jersey and to bring
home the Vince Lombardi Trophy to the most loyal fans in all of
sports,” Mara told the crowd at City Hall Plaza. “Thank you
Giant fans for your unwavering support for so many years. This
world championship belongs as much to you as it does to any of
us.”  The parade began at 11 a.m. New York time, with a
procession of floats and vehicles escorted by flag-bearers,
bagpipers, bands, dancers and New York Police Department
officers on foot and horseback.  Manning Holds Trophy  Quarterback Eli Manning, the Super Bowl Most Valuable
Player, hoisted the Lombardi championship trophy while riding on
a float with defensive lineman  Justin Tuck , General Manager
Jerry Reese, coach  Tom Coughlin , Governor  Andrew Cuomo ,
Bloomberg and members of the Tisch and Mara families, co-owners
of the Giants.  “The message that’s been talked about today is ‘Finish,’”
Manning said in New York. “Finish games, finish the fourth
quarter and finish the season strong. That’s exactly what we did
-- a team that had eight fourth-quarter wins, including one in
the Super Bowl.”  As confetti rained down, the parade crept up the mile-long
Canyon of Heroes, where Charles Lindbergh, Dwight D. Eisenhower
and the Apollo moon astronauts were feted in years past, as were
the  New York Yankees ’ World Series champions. The Giants also
celebrated their previous title in the Canyon of Heroes five
seasons ago, when 36 1/2 tons of confetti showered down from
windows in buildings along the route.  Players Celebrate  Giants players and coaches waved to the crowd from slow-
moving flatbed trailers and open-roof buses, with players such
as wide receiver  Hakeem Nicks  and linemen David Diehl and Osi Umenyiora holding video cameras or camera phones to capture the
event. Punter Steve Weatherford grabbed a drum from one of the
band members and started marching with it while wearing his
Giants helmet. Other players caught footballs and T-shirts from
the crowd to sign and throw back.  Parade-goers gathered this morning in lower  Manhattan  near
and on Broadway, funneling through metal police barricades and
packing the sidewalks to catch a glimpse of the parade on a
sunny, 46-degree Fahrenheit (8 Celsius) day.  The gathering on  Wall Street  near the New York Stock
Exchange was reminiscent of the months-long presence during the
Occupy protests last year. Street vendors lined nearly every
block, hawking items such as Giants pennants and noisemakers,
$10 T-shirts and $15 hats.  George Alvarado, 45, and his 10-year-old son Nick took the
Long Island Rail Road from Smithtown, New York, for the parade.
Both wore No. 80 Victor Cruz jerseys, Nick’s favorite player.  Missing School  “I’m pretty excited -- I was too young to come in 2007 so
I wanted to come this year and maybe catch a glimpse of the
players,” Nick said. “I think it’d be more cool to see the
Giants than to miss school, but it’s cool to miss school, too.”  At City Hall Plaza, Bloomberg presented the Giants with
ceremonial keys to the city. Bloomberg said the parade may bring
as much as $19 million to $38 million to the city’s economy,
with between 500,000 and 1 million spectators expected, about
one-third of them from outside  New York City .  Lisa Wheeler and her husband, Stephen, drove seven hours
yesterday from their home in Chesapeake,  Virginia , to bring
their sons, 9-year-old Austin and 6-year-old Ryan, to both the
parade in New York and the celebration at MetLife Stadium. The
couple is keeping a promise they made to their young Giants fans
early in a playoff run during which the team upset the  Green Bay
Packers  and  San Francisco 49ers  on the road before knocking off
the favored Patriots.  “We’ve learned to be careful what you promise because they
will hold you to it,” said Lisa Wheeler, 38. “They are
thrilled. When we asked the boys to rate the parade on a scale
of 1 to 10, they both gave it a 20.”  NJ Celebration  After the parade, the Giants boarded buses and returned to
 New Jersey  to celebrate at their home stadium. New Jersey
Governor  Chris Christie  was among those honoring the team, which
scored the final 12 points in the Super Bowl two days ago to
rally from a 17-9 deficit.  Ahmad Bradshaw  scored the winning touchdown with 57 seconds
left, giving the Giants their fourth Super Bowl title. The
Giants, who had a 7-7 record in December, won their final six
games, including four straight in the postseason, to become the
first Super Bowl champion with seven losses.  In holding a rally in New Jersey, Christie kept a promise
to Adam Bernstein, a 10-year-old from Bridgewater who asked the
governor at a Jan. 24 town hall meeting where the celebration
would be held if the Giants won. Christie assured Bernstein
there would be a celebration in New Jersey, since that’s where
the Giants train and play and many of them live.  Jersey Crowd  Christie was greeted by a loud ovation and fans doing the
wave when he arrived in the 82,500-seat stadium, which was more
than 1/3 full.  Fans, many of them wearing Giants jerseys, began arriving
at about 1 p.m., among them Vicki Conklin of Pequannock, New
Jersey, who took her son Tommy, 11, out of fifth grade for the
day to attend the event. Both Vicki and Tommy, who said he plays
quarterback for the Pequannock Boys Club football team, wore No.
10 Manning jerseys.  “I came here four years ago without him and I knew I
wanted him to experience this,” Vicki Conklin, 47, said in an
interview in the stadium parking lot. “It’s pure jubilation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  