-- Obama Health Rule an Affront to Religious Groups: Ramesh Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-02-07T00:00:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/new-health-rule-affront-to-religious-groups-commentary-by-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Kathleen Sebelius , the secretary of
Health and Human Services, says that a new health-care
regulation “strikes the appropriate balance between respecting
religious freedom and increasing access to important preventive
services.”  That’s what she said when  announcing  that religious non-
profit groups would have one year to start offering what she
called “recommended contraceptive services” in their employees’
insurance plans. Only churches, narrowly defined, are exempt:
Religious hospitals and universities are not.  It’s a strange sort of balance. The Constitution provides
specific protection to only the first of the two goods being
balanced (“religious freedom” and “increased access”). That
protection contains no hint of a suggestion that it is up to
federal regulators to strike whatever balance they consider
appropriate between religious freedom and their other goals.  Administration officials defending the decision in a
conference call  said  they have no estimate of how many people
would have greater access to contraceptive services as a result
of the regulation -- an admission that undermines the contention
that a careful balancing took place. Further weakening that
claim is Sebelius’s reliance on a recommendation from the
 Institute of Medicine , which, to judge from  its report , heard
from no representatives of any religious organization before
making it.  ‘Week After Pill’  In addition to mandating coverage of contraception and
surgical sterilization, the new rule covers “ella,” also known
as the “week after pill.” While the  Food and Drug Administration 
hasn’t approved it as an abortion drug, it  advises  doctors that
it has been found to cause fetal death in rats and rabbits.  The administration’s decision has elicited opposition, and
sometimes outrage, even from  liberal Catholics  (including some
who  disagree  with their church’s view of contraception). They
supported  Barack Obama  in 2008, and also backed the health-care
law he later signed as president even though the Catholic
bishops opposed it for indirectly subsidizing abortion. Sister
Carol Keehan, the president of the Catholic Health Association,
drew criticism for breaking with the bishops to endorse the law.
Her support helped sway enough legislators for it to pass the
House narrowly. Now she, too, is  opposing  the regulation, which
the administration is imposing as part of its implementation of
that law. The rule is also drawing opposition from abortion
opponents of many faiths.  Both political and legal challenges are under way. The
Becket Fund for Religious Liberty is  filing a suit , citing both
constitutional and statutory objections. Representative Jeff Fortenberry, a Nebraska Republican, and Senator  Roy Blunt , a
Missouri Republican, introduced legislation months ago to keep
employers from having to cover procedures to which they have
moral or religious objections.  “The strong arm of government should not force Americans to
buy health-care products that they have reasoned objections to,”
Fortenberry told me. After Sebelius’s announcement, Senator
 Marco Rubio , a Florida Republican, introduced his own narrower
bill that would protect employers with religious objections to
contraception and abortion.  It would be no great hardship for someone who has decided
to work at a Catholic hospital to pay for contraception out of
pocket. The only reasons to mandate coverage are essentially
political, such as the desire to get society to regard abortion
as basic health care. Whatever else one may think of this goal,
it is not a justification for coercion.  “We want a faithful Catholic businessman not to have to
provide a service he finds unethical,” says Fortenberry, who
adds that the federal government didn’t impose any such
requirement before the enactment of the new health-care law. But
that’s not a wholly satisfactory arrangement, either: If an
employee wants health insurance that covers contraception,
should the moral views of his boss be an obstacle?  A Better Solution  The best solution would be for the federal government to
stop encouraging people to get health coverage through their
employers in the first place. If people bought their own health
insurance with their own money -- rather than relying on their
employer or other taxpayers -- they could pick the policies that
best fit their expected needs and moral convictions. But instead
of moving in this direction, the new health-care law seems
likely to make social conflicts more intractable.  The liberal Catholics who backed the law and now oppose
this regulation have an additional reason for bitterness: It’s
not as though the administration has been insisting on a rigid
application of the law in all other cases. It has been notorious
for  handing out waivers  freely -- just not to religious groups.  The administration’s actions illustrate an underappreciated
flaw in the law. Congress, even the liberal Congress of 2009-10,
would never have enacted a law forcing religious charities to
violate their consciences this way. The law earned the backing
of the Sister Keehans of the world by being vague. Much of the
health-care statute amounts to a grant of power to the
bureaucracy to resolve the key issues.  A waiver today, a sweeping regulation tomorrow: It’s not a
democratically accountable way of making law -- or rather, it’s
not a way of making “law,” as in “the rule of law,” at all.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  