-- Nord Pool Raided as Part of European Power-Exchange Competition Probe
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-02-07T18:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/nord-pool-raided-as-part-of-european-power-exchange-competition-probe.html
Nord Pool Spot AS and Epex Spot SE,
 Europe ’s two biggest electricity exchanges for near-term
delivery, said they were raided by European antitrust regulators
probing possible collusion.  The European Commission said companies managing trading
platforms for electricity contracts may have violated laws
banning “cartels and restrictive business practices.” Power
exchanges provide services that “facilitate electricity trading
at wholesale level,” it said in an e-mailed statement.  Today’s raid follows a three-year crackdown by the European
Union against anti-competitive behavior in the  energy industry .
Nord Pool and Epex Spot said in September they planned to start
a power-trading platform as the EU seeks a single market for the
bloc. The venture would have more than 90 percent of the spot
power trading at exchanges in northwest Europe and probably more
than 50 percent in Europe as a whole, Jean Francois Conil- Lacoste, chief executive officer of Epex Spot, said at the time.  The reason for the proposed joint venture with Nord Pool
Spot was “to harmonize our markets, harmonize our systems in
order to be in line with what the European Commission wanted by
2014,” Wolfram Vogel, spokesman for Epex Spot, said today by
phone from the E-world conference in Essen,  Germany .  The venture would have helped build the single EU market
for power that regulators wanted, he said. Epex Spot is itself a
joint venture of European Energy Exchange AG in Leipzig,
Germany, and PowerNext SA of Paris. EEX is the only German power
exchange while PowerNext is the only power bourse in  France .  Utility Regulation  The region in 2009 agreed to make dominant electricity and
natural-gas companies improve access to transmission networks
for competitors, while the commission has probed companies
including Electricite de France SA,  EON AG ,  RWE AG  and  Eni SpA 
for possible illegal business practices.  The commission said that officials from the European Free
Trade Association, which groups  Norway ,  Iceland ,  Switzerland  and
Liechtenstein, were also involved in the raids. EFTA said in a
statement that it took part following a request from the
Brussels-based commission.  Lysaker, Norway-based Nord Pool Spot said it
“understands” that the raids concerned a planned joint venture
with Epex Spot.  Power-Trading Businesses  Epex Spot, based in Paris, said on its website it’s
“working together” with EU officials “to deliver all
information needed.” Epex Spot was created in 2009.  “Unannounced inspections are a preliminary step into
suspected anticompetitive practices,” the commission said.  The commission is in charge of policing cross-border
competition issues in the 27-nation EU. Firms guilty of
antitrust violations can be fined as much as 10 percent of their
annual sales. There is no legal deadline for the commission to
complete its investigation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  