-- Novartis’s Bexsero Guards Infants Against Brain-Swelling Malady in Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-07T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/novartis-s-bexsero-guards-infants-against-brain-swelling-malady-in-study.html
Novartis AG (NOVN)  said its Bexsero vaccine
protected infants against meningococcal B disease when given
together with routine childhood inoculations, suggesting the
shot could be included in standard vaccination programs.  In a trial involving 1,885 infants in  Europe , Bexsero
stimulated an immune response against three strains of the
meningococcus B bacterium, researchers led by Matthew Snape at
the University of Oxford wrote in the Journal of the  American
Medical Association  today. The vaccine was safe and didn’t
interfere with the other shots, they wrote.  The result suggests Novartis, Europe’s biggest drugmaker,
may have succeeded in developing the first effective shot
against the main cause of meningitis, a deadly brain-swelling
disease, in developed nations. The company already competes with
 Sanofi (SAN)  and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  in marketing shots against four
other strains of the Neisseria meningitidis bacteria.  The study “represents a major step forward,” Amanda Cohn
and Nancy Messonnier from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention wrote in an editorial accompanying the study.
“The anticipated licensure of this vaccine in Europe and other
countries means that for the first time vaccines to prevent all
five of the serogroups that cause most meningococcal disease
worldwide will be available.”  Novartis, which paid for the trial, applied for marketing
approval of Bexsero in the European Union in December 2010, and
expects a decision this year, it said in a statement. If
approved, the shot may earn the Basel, Switzerland-based
drugmaker $1 billion a year in sales by 2015, according to
 Seamus Fernandez , an analyst at Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston .  Carrying and Transmitting  The vaccine’s design may not stop children from carrying
and transmitting the bacterium, Cohn and Messonnier wrote.  “Countries will have to weigh the benefits of serogroup B
vaccination against the costs of adding vaccines to the infant
schedule,” they said.  Meningococci bacteria can be carried in the throat and
transmitted through kissing, sneezing, coughing or sharing food
and drink. The bugs mainly affect young children and can cause
meningitis, in which the thin lining surrounding the brain and
spinal cord becomes inflamed, causing symptoms including stiff
neck, high fever, sensitivity to light, confusion, headaches and
vomiting.  As many as  10 percent  of those infected die within 48 hours
after symptoms start,  according  to the  World Health
Organization . Brain damage, hearing loss or learning
disabilities may affect as many as 20 percent of survivors, the
Geneva-based agency said on its website.  Meningococcus A is most common cause of meningitis in
 Africa , while type B accounts for as many as 40 percent of cases
in  North America  and as many as 80 percent in some European
nations, according to the WHO.  Three Shots  Children in the trial received three shots of Bexsero, also
known as 4CMenB, at the same time they got routine vaccines made
by Glaxo and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , or in alternating months to the
standard shots. Another group received only the routine
vaccinations.  Among those who received Bexsero with the routine vaccines,
99 percent had a protective immune response to two of the three
strains. For the third strain, as many as 82 percent of children
getting the shots concurrently had an immune response, compared
with 86 percent of those who received Bexsero separately. The
response was sufficient for all three strains in the vaccine,
the study showed.  “These results also show that Bexsero can fit into various
vaccination schedules in the first year of life when the
likelihood of contracting this often-deadly disease is
greatest,” Novartis said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  