-- Obama Renews $80 Million Bid for Science, Math Teachers
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-02-07T21:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/obama-renews-80-million-bid-for-science-math-teachers.html
President  Barack Obama  said he’ll
request $80 million in education funding for training math and
science teachers to help the U.S. stay competitive in world
commerce, reviving a budget request last year.  The president made the announcement in conjunction with an
event honoring winners of the second annual White House science
fair. More than 100 students from more than 45 states engaged in
projects in science, technology, engineering and math, according
to the White House.  “You’re making sure we have the best, smartest most
skilled workers in the world, so that the jobs and industries
tomorrow take root, right here,” Obama told students at the
White House. “You’re making sure America will win the race to
the future.”  The administration says the funding for math and science
teachers is to support development of school curricula in
subject areas to meet the goal of training 1 million graduates
in science, technology, engineering and math over the next
decade. That ultimately will spur development of technological
breakthrough that will create jobs, according to the White
House.  Obama said he’ll request $80 million for teacher training
as part of his fiscal 2013 budget, which will be sent to
Congress on Feb. 13. Another $22 million would come from pledges
by philanthropic and private sector organizations including
Carnegie Corporation of  New York , Google Inc., and Bill and
 Melinda Gates , among others, bringing total potential funding to
$102 million.  A year ago, the president called for preparation of 100,000
science, technology, education and math teachers over the next
decade. He included an $80 million request to begin recruiting
10,000 teachers over two years.  That request stalled because it was included in a package
renewing the Elementary Secondary Education Act and Congress
didn’t act on the measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  