-- Obama Has Left Door Open for Keystone, Alberta’s Morton Says
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d   a n d   J e r e m y   V a n   L o o n
-- 2012-02-07T19:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/obama-has-left-door-open-for-keystone-alberta-s-morton-says-1-.html
The U.S. government has “left the
door open” to approve the Keystone XL pipeline, which would
make it the first of three proposed export routes for Canadian
crude to be built, Alberta Energy Minister Ted Morton said.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s planned pipeline would deliver 700,000
barrels a day of crude from Alberta’s oil sands to the  Gulf of
Mexico  through six U.S. states. President  Barack Obama  denied a
permit for the project last month after Nebraska farmers and
environmentalists raised concerns about possible contamination
of a state-wide aquifer.  Morton said support from the organized labor component of
Obama’s  Democratic Party  would help Keystone XL to be built
before two projects that would let Canada boost crude shipments
to  Asia : Enbridge Inc.’s proposed Northern Gateway pipeline that
would run from Alberta to Kitimat, British Columbia, and  Kinder
Morgan Inc. (KMP) ’s proposed expansion of the Transmountain line to
 Vancouver .  “Notwithstanding the deferral, Keystone XL is still likely
be the first one to go forward,” Morton said in an interview
after a speech in Toronto. “We are confident that after the
political season is over down there, there will be bi-partisan
support for Keystone XL.”  Hearings on Northern Gateway, which crosses land claimed by
Indian bands and faces opposition from environmentalists
concerned about tanker traffic in an area, are not expected to
finish until mid-2013, Morton said. The Transmountain project
has the advantage of using existing rights-of-way, he said.  Export Capacity  About 99 percent of  Canada ’s crude exports go to the U.S.
There is export pipeline capacity to handle production until
2016-17 and rail shipments could grow, while investment would
fall if no pipeline is built within the next five years, Morton
said.  Alberta, with the world’s third-largest crude reserves,
plans to increase the size of its savings fund from oil and
natural gas revenues in Heritage Savings Trust Fund, Morton also
said.  The fund, created 35 years ago, was worth C$14.7 billion
($14.8 billion) on Sept. 30 following a net loss of C$134
million in the previous 12 months, according to the province’s
finance ministry website. Details on plans for the fund will be
presented this week, Morton said.  Alberta , the nation’s third-largest economy, presents its
annual budget on Feb. 9, with Premier Alison Redford juggling
the need to balance expenses and revenue while fielding demands
from voters for improvements in health care, infrastructure and
education.  Growing the Fund  “I think when you see the budget, which will be introduced
on Thursday, and Bill 1 introduced today, you’ll see Premier
Redford is taking concrete steps to address the issue of growing
the Heritage Fund again,” Morton said. He declined to provide
details.  The Albertan fund is a fraction of  Norway ’s 3.06 trillion
kroner ($530 billion) Government Pension Fund Global savings
plan funded from its oil and gas sector. The Heritage Fund has
“languished” for years and the provincial government has
failed to create a “nest egg” that will help compensate for
the loss of fossil fuel resources when they eventually run out,
the Pembina Institute has said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net 
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  