-- Obama Encouraging Donors to Give to Super-PAC
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-02-07T16:11:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/obama-encouraging-donors-to-contribute-to-super-pac-backing-him.html
President  Barack Obama , who has
decried the influence of outside groups in politics, is now
encouraging his top donors to contribute to the independent
political action committee backing his re-election.  “With so much at stake, we can’t allow for two sets of
rules in this election whereby the Republican nominee is the
beneficiary of unlimited spending and Democrats unilaterally
disarm,” campaign manager  Jim Messina  wrote in an e-mail to
supporters last night.  Campaign officials said the decision was made after seeing
the Republicans’ so-called super-PACs emerge as the dominant
spending force in the party’s early presidential contests. In
last week’s federal financial filings, one set of the groups,
American Crossroads and Crossroads Grassroots Policy Strategies,
reported raising $51 million last year.  The rising influence of the super-PACs has been a topic of
discussion with the president for some time, and in the last few
days Obama was consulted on the announcement the campaign was
readying to make, according to a campaign official who spoke
about the internal deliberations on condition of anonymity.  Obama’s Surrogates  “The campaign has decided to do what we can, consistent
with the law, to support Priorities USA in its effort to counter
the weight” of Republican groups, Messina said of the super-PAC
formed by former White House aides. “We will do so only in the
knowledge and with the expectation that all of its donations
will be fully disclosed as required by law to the Federal
Election Commission.”  Obama won’t appear at events for Priorities USA Action, the
committee’s full name. He will instead send surrogates from the
White House, his Cabinet and campaign to encourage support for
the group, another campaign official said.  Administration officials taking part in the effort include
advisers  David Plouffe  and  Valerie Jarrett , Education Secretary
 Arne Duncan  and Health and Human Services secretary  Kathleen Sebelius . Campaign officials include strategist David Axelrod
and Messina. The officials won’t solicit funds, the campaign
official said.  Advocates of stricter campaign finance regulation said the
president’s move aligns him with organizations, who they argue,
are breaking the law.  Seeking Investigation  “We will be writing to the  Justice Department  shortly
asking the Department to open a criminal investigation into
whether Restore our Future and Priorities USA Action are illegal
operations,” said Fred Wertheimer, president of Democracy 21, a
Washington advocacy group. “In order to believe that the super-
PACs supporting President Obama and Mitt Romney are independent
from the presidential campaigns they are supporting, you must
believe in the tooth fairy.”  Bob Edgar, president of the non-partisan advocacy group
Common Cause, said the administration’s contention that White
House officials won’t be soliciting funds “is laughable.”  Priorities USA raised $4.4 million last year, far behind
Republican committees. The super-PAC backing Republican front-
runner  Mitt Romney , Restore Our Future, raised $30.2 million in
2011, according to Federal Election Commission filings. Super-
PACs are allowed to raise unlimited funds from individuals,
corporations and unions.  Contributions Race  While Obama’s presidential campaign has more than his
Republican challengers in total donations and cash on hand, the
president’s advisers saw their cash advantage being wiped out.
In 2011, Obama for America raised $128 million and ended the
year with $81.8 million in cash.  Romney raised $57 million last year, more than any of his
Republican presidential rivals, and entered the primary season
with $20 million to spend.  “As has become evident in the past month, the only
enthusiasm in the  Republican Party  is among oil company
billionaires and investment bankers on  Wall Street  looking to
defeat President Obama,” said  Bill Burton , co-founder of
Priorities USA. “We’re committed to providing a balance to  Karl Rove  and the Koch brothers who have pledged more than half a
billion dollars to their effort.”  The first campaign official also cited a $6 million
advertising drive that began running last month in swing states
spotlighting the president’s ties to bankrupt solar-panel maker
Solyndra LLC. The ads are backed by the independent group
Americans for Prosperity, founded by billionaire  David Koch .
Koch and his brother, Charles, control Koch Industries Inc., a
closely held refining and chemicals company in Wichita,  Kansas .  Supreme Court Ruling  Democratic donors were informed of Obama’s decision on a
conference call with the campaign’s National Finance Committee
on last night.  The outside groups playing a major role in this year’s race
emerged after the 2010 U.S. Supreme Court ruling in  Citizens
United  v.  Federal Election Commission  that corporations and
unions can spend unlimited amounts in political campaigns.  The Obama campaign estimates that outside groups will spend
as much as $800 million to defeat the president, one of the
campaign officials said.  The official said Obama will support this one group and
only efforts that are fully disclosed. He also will continue to
do what he can to overcome the Supreme Court ruling including
support for a constitutional amendment, if necessary, the
official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  