-- October Trial Date Set for Man Accused of Plotting to Kill Saudi Envoy
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-07T18:08:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/october-trial-date-set-for-man-accused-of-plotting-to-kill-saudi-envoy.html
Manssor Arbabsiar, the Iranian-
American car salesman accused of plotting to assassinate the
Saudi ambassador to the U.S., will go on trial Oct. 22, a
federal judge said.  Arbabsiar and Gholam Shakuri, who the U.S. said was a
member of Iran’s Qods Force, were charged in a five-count
indictment filed Oct. 20 with plotting to hire someone from a
Mexican drug cartel to kill Ambassador Adel Al-Jubeir in the
U.S. The man the two approached to be their assassin was a U.S.
informant, prosecutors said.  U.S. District Judge John Keenan in  Manhattan  today
expressed frustration with both prosecutors and Arbabsiar’s
lawyer for not being ready for trial. Keenan yesterday rejected
the defense lawyer’s request for a 30-day adjournment.  “I want to get this case on track,” Keenan told lawyers
at a hearing in the case today. The judge said he first saw
Arbabsiar at his Oct. 24 arraignment, and 364 days will have
passed by the trial date.  “If this isn’t long enough to prepare for trial, then I’ve
been in the wrong business for my whole professional career,”
Keenan said. “I’ve never heard of a case where you need more
than a year to prepare it.”  The U.S. State Department has described the Qods Force as
an arm of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. Other
Qods Force members in  Iran  also were involved and helped to
bankroll the plot, which was to have cost $1.5 million and be
carried out in the U.S., prosecutors said.  At Large  Arbabsiar has pleaded not guilty. Shakuri is at large,
prosecutors said.  Prosecutors have turned over “about 95 percent” of the
classified material that was evidence against Arbabsiar,
including 75 pages of post-arrest statements the defendant made
under questioning by U.S. authorities during a 10-day period,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Glen Kopp told the judge today.  At the arraignment last year, Keenan said evidence the U.S.
gathered against Arbabsiar included tapes of conversations made
by investigators working with the U.S. Drug Enforcement
Administration and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation . Some
documents included an alleged admission of guilt and needed to
be translated, Keenan said at the October hearing.  March 9 Deadline  “Get everything to her by March 9,” Keenan told
prosecutors. Sabrina Shroff, a lawyer for Arbabsiar, told Keenan
she would need more time to prepare a defense and suggested a
November trial date.  “The case itself is complex,” she said.  Keenan refused, saying he may change his mind after
reviewing any letter Shroff sends him discussing her concerns
about the case. In a Feb. 5 letter to the court, Shroff
requested more time to review evidence turned over by
prosecutors and continue talks on a “a possible disposition”
of the case.  “I don’t want this thing dragging on,” Keenan said today.
“It’s not fair to the defendant, it’s not fair to the
government or to the witnesses in the case.”  Shroff declined to comment the case after court.  The case is U.S. v. Arbabsiar, 11-cr-00897, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  