-- Oil Trades Near 2-Day Low Amid Speculation U.S., Europe Demand Will Ease
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-07T08:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/oil-gives-up-earlier-gain-trades-little-changed-before-u-s-supply-report.html
Oil traded near a two-day low in  New
York  on speculation fuel demand may falter as Europe struggles
with its debt crisis and stockpiles increase in the U.S., the
world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures were little changed after dropping 1 percent
yesterday. Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  plans to meet
the country’s political leaders today to discuss additional
measures to secure a second bailout led by the European Union.
U.S.  crude inventories  probably rose to the highest in more than
four months and gasoline supplies climbed for a second week,
according to a Bloomberg survey before an Energy Department
report tomorrow. Prices gained as much as 0.6 percent earlier
today after nearing a technical-support level.  “The pattern of increased crude inventories and lower
gasoline demand has impacted the outlook in the U.S.,” said Ric Spooner, a chief analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney. “Markets are
also watching for a resolution in  Europe .”  Oil for March delivery was at $97.12 a barrel in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , up 21 cents, at
4:02 p.m.  Singapore  time. Yesterday, the contract fell 93 cents
to $96.91, the lowest settlement since Feb. 2. Prices have
declined 1.7 percent this year.  Brent oil for March settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $116.12 a barrel, up 19 cents.
The European benchmark crude was at a premium of $18.99 to New
York-traded West Texas Intermediate, compared with $19.02
yesterday. The spread was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Greek Aid  European leaders have increased pressure on Greece to meet
the conditions of the 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) rescue,
with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  saying “time is running
out.” While Papademos and the party chiefs already agreed to
make further cuts this year, they have yet to close gaps over
measures demanded by creditors.  U.S.  crude inventories  probably rose 2.5 million barrels in
the week ended Feb. 3, according to the median estimate of seven
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News before tomorrow’s Energy
Department report. Gasoline stockpiles  climbed  by 500,000
barrels for a second weekly gain and supplies of distillate
fuels, including diesel and heating oil, declined 1 million
barrels, the survey shows.  Crude stockpiles “are not considered low and we therefore
see some downward pressure on WTI,” said  Victor Shum , senior
principal at Purvin & Gertz Inc., a consultant in Singapore.
“That’s why prices are below $100.”  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  will
report its own stockpile data today in  Washington .  Oil in New York was higher earlier today after settling
above technical support along the lower Bollinger Band
yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This
indicator is around $96.28 a barrel today. Buy orders tend to be
clustered near chart-support levels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  