-- Oil Corruption May Threaten Angola, Nigeria, Stifling Growth, Agency Says
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-02-08T12:29:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/oil-corruption-may-threaten-angola-nigeria-global-witness-says.html
Nigeria  and Angola,  Africa ’s biggest
oil producers, have granted stakes in  oil fields  to companies
that may be acting as fronts for government officials, stifling
development in both countries, according to anti-corruption
group  Global Witness .  While increased oil output has generated billions of
dollars for Angola and Nigeria, the misappropriation of public
funds by corrupt officials remains one of the main causes of
poverty in those countries, the London-based organization said
today in an e-mailed report.  “Too often private ‘ shell ’ companies with opaque ownership
structures are awarded lucrative concessions, with little
information available as to who the beneficial owners of the
company are,” Global Witness said.  Angola and Nigeria have said they’re making progress in
fighting corruption and improving oil-industry transparency to
attract foreign investors fleeing  Europe ’s debt crisis. Nigeria
is Africa’s top oil producer, pumping about 2.14 million barrels
a day last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, while
Angola’s output was almost 1.79 million barrels a day.  Global Witness  was one of two organizations  nominated  by
members of the  U.S. Congress  for the 2003 Nobel Peace Prize for
its work reporting links between armed conflict and diamonds in
Africa.  Bolster Transparency  Angola, which is in the final stage of a $1.4 billion loan
program with the  International Monetary Fund , has made more
information on oil finances available, Global Witness said.
While Nigeria has also adopted measures to bolster transparency
in the oil industry, both countries need to do more to fight
corruption, it said.  “It is known that the oil sector in these countries has
been used to create a national bourgeoisie,” Alves da Rocha, an
economics professor at Angola’s  Catholic University , said in a
telephone interview today. “It is a bourgeoisie created on the
basis of favors by the state and not on merit.”  In Angola, for example, the owners of Sociedade de
Hidrocarbonetos de Angola (SHA), a private company that pre-
qualified for an oil license tender in 2007 that was later
suspended, had the same names as senior Angolan government
officials, Global Witness said.  Joao Rosa Santos, a spokesman for Angolan state-owned oil
company Sonangol EP, which grants oil licenses, didn’t answer
three calls to his mobile phone seeking comment. SHA General
Manager Marques Carreira said there was nothing illegal about
his company’s shareholders or the 2007 oil license tender.  Executive Role  “In  Angola , a member of government can be a shareholder in
a private company as long as he doesn’t have an executive role
in that company,” Carreira said in a phone interview from
Luanda, the Angolan capital. “Global Witness should mind its
own business.”  Global Witness also reported that a private Angolan company
called Grupo Gema obtained a small stake in an oil license at
the time when it had two shareholders with the same names as
government officials. Jose Leitao, president of Grupo Gema, did
not return two calls to his company in Luanda seeking comment.  In Nigeria, the owner of a company that bid for a share in
oil contracts in 2005 may have been the senator chairing a
committee that oversaw the upstream oil industry in that
country, Global Witness said.  ‘Resource Curse’  Levi Ajuonuma , a spokesman for state-owned Nigeria National
Petroleum Corp., didn’t answer three phone calls seeking comment
on the report.  Global Witness also cited examples of lack of transparency
in the Democratic Republic of Congo’s oil and mining sectors. A
“resource curse” in Angola, Nigeria and Congo has stifled
development, it said.  About 70 percent of Angolans and 80 percent of Nigerians
live on less than $2 a day, while one in five children in the
Democratic Republic of Congo dies before its fifth birthday and
more than half the population lives on less than $1.25 a day,
according to Global Witness.  “African countries with mineral resources have too long
been held back from prosperity by a baleful history of collusion
between corrupt and incompetent rulers,” the organization said.
“More transparency would ensure a more open competition and one
that is fairer to countries and their citizens.”  Angola and the  Democratic Republic  of Congo both placed
168th out of 182 country rankings in a global  Corruption
Perceptions Index  released in December by  Transparency
International , the Berlin-based anti-graft watchdog. Nigeria’s
ranking was 143.  Foreign companies operating in Nigeria and Angola include
Royal Dutch Shell Plc,  Exxon Mobil Corp. ,  Chevron Corp.  and
 Total SA  and  Eni SpA .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  