-- London 2012 Will See Fewer Doping Offenders, WADA President Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-02-07T17:36:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/london-2012-olympics-will-see-fewer-doping-offenders-wada-president-says.html
There will be fewer athletes using
drugs to cheat at this year’s  London Olympics  than ever because
of improvements in testing programs, said John Fahey, president
of the  World Anti-Doping Agency .  “There will be less cheats in London than in any other
Games, because they now know they are likely to get caught, more
than in any other time in history,” Fahey said in an interview
in Lausanne today.  WADA  was founded in 1999 as an international independent
agency, funded by governments and the  International Olympic
Committee . The Lausanne, Switzerland-based group monitors the
World Anti-Doping Code, which knits together anti-doping
policies of countries around the world. The code currently has
193 signatories and will be reviewed in 2013.  WADA’s anti-doping program was first used at the  Athens 
Games.  “That was only in 2004,” Fahey said. “The anti-doping
program was much better in Beijing, because we have learned so
much in those four years. And in the four years since the
Beijing Games, we’ve learned so much more again. We are better
now than in 2008.”  In the 2004 Games in Athens, 3,667 tests were  administered ,
and 26 doping cases were recorded, which included not just
failed tests but also violations of rules such as not showing up
for examination or not providing proper specimens for testing,
the International Olympic Committee said.  Athletes and Horses  Four years later in Beijing, there were 4,770 samples
taken, with 14 athletes and 6 horses found in violation of the
rules, the IOC said.  There are now 33 WADA accredited laboratories, which
collected 258,267 samples in 2010. That compares to 154,000 in
2003.  London  2012 organizers said last month some 6,250 samples
will be analyzed during the Games, which start July 27.  Samples are kept in cold storage in the WADA laboratory in
Lausanne for eight years, giving drug testers the opportunity to
re-analyze them in case a new performance-enhancing drug or
technique comes along. WADA is also working on a test to detect
blood transfusions, as well as an improved test to find human
growth hormone. It didn’t say when those will be ready.  Despite the improvements in testing, professional sports
will never be completely drugs-free, Fahey said.  “I don’t think you’ll ever get a clean  Olympic Games 
because human nature will always attempt to get an unfair
advantage that will give them that little edge that their own
physical attribute won’t give them,” Fahey said.  Cycling Violations  Fahey’s comments come a day after the Court of Arbitration
for Sport rejected Spanish cyclist  Alberto Contador ’s claim that
he failed a drug test because he consumed a contaminated steak,
and banned him for two years. Contador was also stripped of his
2010 Tour de France title, just like American cyclist  Floyd Landis  in 2006.  “Cycling had a very bad record going back ten years or so
ago,” Fahey said. “They have at least stopped denying the
problem, and worked with a program to deal with the problem.
Have they got rid of cheats in cycling? I don’t know that we’ve
got rid of cheats in any sports. But there are certainly a whole
lot less cheats in cycling today then there was five years ago,
and certainly ten years ago.”  Fahey said WADA is seeking some additional funding from
pharmaceutical companies or international sporting bodies after
the agency’s annual budget of around $28 million was frozen last
year.  “Money does assist greatly in the fight against doping,”
said Fahey, a former finance minister in  Australia . “But we all
accept there is a tough world out there economically.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in Lausanne, Switzerland through the London
sports desk on   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 