-- Hong Kong Regulator Says It Should Be Able to Redress Investors
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2012-02-07T20:23:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/hong-kong-regulator-says-it-should-have-the-right-to-redress-investors.html
Hong Kong ’s securities regulator,
whose attempt to ban New York-based hedge fund Tiger Asia
Management LLC last year from trading was blocked by a court,
said it should have the right to redress investors.  “If private individuals can seek civil remedies, why does
the SFC have to wait?” Benjamin Yu, a lawyer representing the
Securities and Futures Commission, told Hong Kong’s Court of
Appeal yesterday.  The regulator is trying to overturn a court ruling that it
lacks the power to unwind Tiger Asia’s transactions in the
market and ban the hedge fund and employees from trading in Hong
Kong before proving insider trading allegations in a tribunal or
criminal court.  The SFC alleges the hedge fund traded on inside information
from bankers arranging placements of  China Construction Bank
Corp.  and Bank of China Ltd. shares in 2008 and 2009, pocketing
HK$38.5 million ($4.9 million). Tiger  Asia , which has no
employees and physical presence in Hong Kong, denied the
allegations in an Oct. 12, 2010 letter to investors.  The legal battle, which both the SFC and Tiger Asia’s
founder Bill Hwang have pledged to take to Hong Kong’s top
court, will determine whether the agency can sue independently
for relief without working through government departments to
bring a criminal case or civil inquiry. Tiger Asia’s lawyers
argue the regulator can’t use a provision for freezing assets to
bring its own lawsuit against them.  ‘Unchecked Ability’  “It was never intended that the SFC should have an
unchecked ability to seek a contravention of market
misconduct,” Charles Sussex, representing Tiger Asia and its
officers, argued before the court yesterday.  The regulator has also invoked the same law in cases
against  Hontex International Holdings Co. , as well as former
executives of  China Forestry Holdings Ltd. (930)  and  Gome Electrical
Appliance Holding Ltd.   Criminal proceedings or a civil tribunal inquiry “are not
preconditions to investors taking action,” said Judge Robert
Tang from the bench yesterday. “If small investors don’t have
to wait, why should the SFC have to wait?”  The three appeals court judges reserved their judgment and
will hand down their decision at a later date.  The case is Securities and Futures Commission and Tiger
Asia Management LLC, Sung Kook Hwang Bill, Raymond Park, William
Tomita, CACV178/2011 in the Hong Kong Court of Appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  