-- Lonmin Chief Calls Xstrata Holding ‘Unfinished Business’ After Acquisition
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-02-07T16:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/lonmin-ceo-says-xstrata-holding-unfinished-business-.html
Lonmin Plc  Chief Executive Officer
Ian Farmer said even as  Xstrata Plc ’s shareholding in the
platinum producer has been “unfinished business for a while,”
it’s premature to say how Xstrata’s possible merger with
 Glencore International Plc  could affect the company.  “The market has speculated for some time that they’re
perhaps more likely sellers than buyers,” Farmer said of
Xstrata in an interview on the sidelines of the Investing in
African Mining Indaba conference in  Cape Town  today. “We’d be
getting ahead of ourselves to speculate.”  Glencore, the world’s largest publicly traded commodities
supplier, agreed to buy Xstrata for about 26 billion pounds ($41
billion) in shares in the biggest mining takeover, they said in
a joint statement today. Xstrata holds 24.6 percent of Lonmin,
with a market value of about 526 million pounds ($832 million),
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  A combined Glencore and Xstrata would probably sell their
stake in Lonmin, the third-largest platinum producer, helping
spur deals in the platinum and ferrochrome industry, Liberum
Capital Ltd. said on Feb. 3.  “Platinum has no strategic interest for Glencore as
marketing opportunities don’t really exist therefore a disposal
is highly likely,” Ash Lazenby and Dominic O’Kane, analysts at
 Liberum Capital , wrote in a research note to clients.  Share Drop  Lonmin’s shares dropped 2.3 percent to 1,055 pence by 3:39
p.m. in  London , extending their decline in the past year to 42
percent. Larger producers  Anglo American Platinum Ltd . and
 Impala Platinum Holdings Ltd . also fell as the outlook for
platinum demand dimmed along with global growth prospects.  “We’re in for a bumpy ride in the short term,” Farmer
said today. “The market has been disappointing and there are
still quite some material uncertainties.”  Platinum has retreated 11 percent in the past year and
traded at $1,639 an ounce.  “We’re watching our balance sheet management very
carefully,” Farmer said. Lonmin will keep its capital
expenditure plans “under review,” he said.  Lonmin would like to gradually increase output at three new
shafts to help make the company more efficient. “In an ideal
world we’d like to continue with that program, but clearly we
have to cut according to our cloth,” Farmer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  