-- Oracle Wants New Trial Against SAP After Reduced Verdict
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-02-07T09:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/oracle-seeks-new-trial-in-suit-against-sap-court-filing-says.html
Oracle Corp.  decided it would rather
have a new trial against  SAP AG  for copyright infringement than
accept a judge’s $1 billion reduction in a jury verdict it won
against its competitor.  U.S. District Judge Phyllis Hamilton in Oakland,
 California , threw out a $1.3 billion verdict against SAP in
September, calling it “grossly excessive” and not supported by
the evidence. SAP, the biggest maker of business-management
software, should get a new trial if Oracle rejects her decision
to reduce the amount to $272 million, Hamilton said in her
ruling.  “Oracle’s objective is to obtain clarification of the law
and, if it is right about what the law is and what the evidence
supports in this case, to vindicate the verdict of the jury and
Oracle’s intellectual property rights as a copyright owner,”
Oracle attorney  Geoffrey Howard  said in a filing yesterday in
federal court in Oakland.  In the 2010 trial, Oracle accused SAP’s TomorrowNow
software-maintenance unit of making hundreds of thousands of
illegal downloads and several thousand copies of Oracle’s
software. Oracle said SAP’s aim was to avoid paying licensing
fees and to steal customers.  SAP and  Redwood City , California-based Oracle, the second-
biggest maker of  business software , are competitors in the
market for programs that businesses use to automate payroll,
human resources, accounting and other tasks.  Hypothetical License  Shares of the German company slipped 0.8 percent to 47.70
euros at 10:09 a.m. in  Frankfurt  today. Oracle  declined  0.4
percent to $29 in  New York  yesterday. Before today, the U.S.
software maker dropped 11 percent in 12 months, while SAP gained
11 percent.  “It’s going to weigh on sentiment toward SAP because bad
news is going to be lurking in the background again,” said
Andreas Wolf, an analyst at Warburg Research GmbH in Hamburg.
“But even if they had to go back to having to pay the previous
penalty, the effect would be very minor” for SAP shareholders,
he said.  SAP, based in Walldorf,  Germany , didn’t contest that it was
liable for the infringement by TomorrowNow, which it closed in
2008. Jurors based their award on the value of a hypothetical
license that SAP would have needed to use Oracle’s software.  Evidence  Hamilton said there was no evidence that Oracle had ever
granted a license that would permit a competitor to use its
software to compete for Oracle customers. Oracle can’t recover
lost license fees because, without such evidence, any award
would be subjective and speculative and not based on objective
evidence, she said.  “We are disappointed that Oracle has passed up yet another
opportunity to resolve this case,” Jim Dever, an SAP spokesman,
said in an e-mail. “We will continue to work to bring this case
to a fair and reasonable end.”  The case is Oracle v. SAP, 07-1658, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (Oakland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  