-- Emerging-Market Stocks Advance as Greece Meetings May Signal Deal Progress
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-07T22:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/most-emerging-stocks-decline-on-china-growth-greece-concerns-htc-slumps.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a six-
month high as investors bet Greece will reach an agreement for a
second bailout, decreasing the risk  Europe ’s debt crisis will
drag down global growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  advanced 0.1 percent to
1048.56 at the close in New York, the highest since Aug. 4.
 Brazil ’s Bovespa index rose to a nine-month high. The  Shanghai
Composite Index  slipped 1.7 percent, the biggest drop in three
weeks. Russia’s  Micex Index  retreated 0.9 percent, and the
 FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index  fell 0.6 percent in Johannesburg
to the lowest since Jan. 31.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  was to meet tonight
with officials from the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank , and the International Monetary Fund to discuss the
final details of terms for a 130 billion-euro ($172 billion)
rescue package. He postponed until tomorrow a meeting with the
heads of the political parties supporting his caretaker
government.  “Our European economists now believe that an agreement on
 Greece  is almost a done deal, which when confirmed, will provide
a positive boost to sentiment,”  Benoit Anne , head of emerging-
markets strategy at Societe Generale SA in  London , wrote in a
message to clients. “There is more room for global  emerging
markets  to rally.”  A Greek official said earlier the government and
international creditors were close to a final draft of an
agreement on budget and structural measures needed to extend the
financial lifeline.  ‘Hard Landing’  Growth in Chinese  industrial output  will probably decline
this quarter as the global economy slows and the European debt
crisis continues, the Industry and Information Technology
Ministry said today.  A “hard landing” for  China  is a key global risk,  Fitch
Ratings  said today after the  International Monetary Fund  warned
yesterday that a worsening of Europe’s debt crisis could cut
growth in the world’s fastest growing major economy almost in
half from a forecast of 8.2 percent for this year.  “China’s industry development is facing an increasingly
complex domestic and international environment with increased
unstable and uncertain factors,” the Industry and Information
Technology Ministry said in a statement.  The Bovespa index rose 1.1 percent in  Sao Paulo  to the
highest since April 29. Card-payment processor  Redecard SA 
surged 10 percent to the highest since November 2007, after
parent Itau Unibanco Holding SA offered to buy all shares
outstanding to delist the company. Competitor  Cielo SA  gained
4.2 percent.  Palabora Mining Co. Ltd. , a South African copper producer
majority owned by  Rio Tinto Group  and  Anglo American Plc ,
dropped 7.8 percent, ending the best four-month rally on the
nation’s benchmark stock index. Palabora gained more than 68
percent through yesterday’s closing price since reaching a one-
year low on Oct. 4, more than any other stock over the period on
the 162-member benchmark  index .  EM Fund Gains  The  BUX Index  sank 1.2 percent in  Hungary  and the  WIG20
Index  slid 0.7 percent in Warsaw, its first drop in nine days.  The euro gained 1 percent against the dollar to the
strongest since Dec. 11. The forint rose 1 percent versus the
euro, and most emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
strengthened against the dollar.  The  iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index  exchange-traded
fund of developing-nation stocks rose 0.2 percent to $43.60.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 382, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  