-- Total Says SunPower Can Withstand China Solar Panel Competition
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2012-02-07T14:10:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/total-says-sunpower-can-withstand-china-solar-panel-competition.html
SunPower Corp. , the U.S. solar panel-
maker controlled by  Total SA (FP) , is strong enough to resist
competition from Chinese manufacturers until the industry
revives in 2014, an executive at the French  oil company  said.  This year and next “will be difficult, bumpy years, with
lingering overcapacities and restructuring,” Arnaud Chaperon,
head of electricity and new energy at Total, said today at a
renewable energy conference in Paris. “The smallest players and
those with lesser quality will fail.”  Total,  Europe ’s third-largest oil producer, paid $1.4
billion for a 60 percent stake in SunPower, whose shares have
plunged 62 percent since April 29, the day after the deal was
announced. In December Total agreed to raise its stake to 66
percent, contrasting with BP Plc’s decision to quit the solar
business after 40 years because it had become unprofitable.  SunPower would be bankrupt without Total’s backing, Chief
Executive Officer Christophe de Margerie said last month,
pledging to turn the company around. Chaperon declined to say
whether Total will write down SunPower assets.  The glut of photovoltaic panels that wiped $30 billion from
solar stocks last year is likely to worsen in 2012, forcing
manufacturers out of the industry, said Bloomberg New Energy
Finance’s Chief Solar Analyst Jenny Chase.  Excess capacity cut the price of solar panels in half last
year, depressing margins and prompting 15 of the 17 members of
the  Bloomberg Large Solar Index  to post quarterly losses in
their most recent earnings statements. The index lost 68 percent
last year.  “This industry could continue to develop if costs are
lowered and these costs have already dropped,” Yves-Louis
Darricarrere, head of exploration and production at Total, said
last month in an interview. SunPower is the “flagship” of the
energy company’s renewable business, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  