-- House Votes to Create Process to Dispose Excess Federal Property
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-02-07T20:02:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/house-votes-to-create-process-to-dispose-excess-federal-property.html
The House voted to create a
commission to direct disposal or redevelopment of excess federal
property that the  General Services Administration  estimated
costs more than $1 billion a year to maintain.  The bill,  H.R. 1734 , would adopt a process for civilian
property modeled after the  Defense Department ’s base closure and
realignment commission process, or BRAC. The House today passed
the legislation by a vote of 259-164.  “The federal government has a horrible track record of
selling things that aren’t being used,” Representative Jeff Denham, a California Republican who sponsored the bill, said on
the floor today. The bill provides opportunities to get rid of
properties that have been “sitting for decades,” he said.  Federal agencies spent more than $1.66 billion in fiscal
2009 to maintain 45,190 underused buildings, according to a
September 2010 GSA report.  The House bill “does not go far enough to create a
transformative process that would save taxpayers billions of
dollars,” according to a statement of administration policy
released Feb. 6 by the  Office of Management and Budget . The
White House didn’t threaten a veto of the legislation.  The administration said it opposed provisions to exempt
transactions from environmental studies, zero out the
authorization for the GSA’s new construction account for fiscal
2012, and limit the leasing of property.  The White House has offered a  proposed bill  text that
differs from the House-passed version, as it would allow the
commission to consider State Department and Postal Service
properties.  The  U.S. Senate  would have to clear the measure for
President Barack Obama’s signature.  NI US
NI GOV
NI USGOV
NI CNG
NI BGOV
NI BGOVCT
NI REL  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  