-- Republicans Advance Bill to Push Keystone XL Over Obama’s Denial
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-08T12:48:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/house-panel-advances-bill-stripping-obama-s-power-on-keystone-xl.html
U.S. House Republicans advanced
legislation stripping President  Barack Obama ’s power for
 TransCanada Corp .’s Keystone XL pipeline and giving authority to
the  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission .  The Energy and Commerce Committee voted 33-20 yesterday for
legislation that would require FERC to approve the $7 billion
project within 30 days, provided the project is deemed safe.  Republicans want to begin work on the 1,661 mile (2,673
kilometer) oil pipeline from Alberta,  Canada , to the U.S. Gulf
Coast. Obama in November delayed work to consider an alternate
route. The House panel plans to add the bill to a measure on
energy and infrastructure, with a vote planned this month.  “The president left us no choice” because the review of
pushes a final decision until after the presidential election,
Representative  Lee Terry , a Nebraska Republican and the bill’s
sponsor, said at today’s meeting.  Pipeline backers, including labor unions, have said the
project may create as many as 20,000 jobs. The Keystone project
threatens to contaminate drinking-water supplies in the Sand
Hills region of Nebraska, environmental groups including the
 Sierra Club  of  San Francisco  say.  The House measure “simply turns FERC into a yes-man” for
Keystone, Representative Henry Waxman, a California Democrat and
committee member, said.  Markey Defeated  The Energy and Commerce Committee defeated a proposal from
Representative  Edward Markey , a Massachusetts Democrat, to
prevent most oil and bitumen transported by the pipeline from
being exported after arriving on the Gulf Coast. The Republican-
led panel also rejected an amendment by Representative Bobby Rush, an Illinois Democrat, that would have barred Calgary-based
TransCanada from seizing private land for the pipeline using the
government’s powers.  Terry’s bill would strip the Interior Department and U.S.
 Army Corps  of Engineers from their oversight authority for the
pipeline, officials from the two agencies told a House
subcommittee Feb. 3.  The measure raises “serious questions” about legal
authority, Kerri-Ann Jones, a State Department assistant
secretary, said at a hearing Jan. 25. FERC doesn’t have the
authority to act on the location of pipelines, and the bill’s
30-day deadline doesn’t allow enough time to review the project,
Jeffrey Wright, FERC’s director of the Office of Energy
Projects, said.  “What bothers me is how roughshod this is,”
Representative Anna Eshoo, a California Democrat, said of
Terry’s legislation. “No matter what the facts are, they don’t
matter.”  The bill is H.R. 3548.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  