-- China Warns Output Growth May Slow as Global Risks Increase
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-07T06:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/output-growth-may-slow-on-global-risks-china.html
China ’s industrial  output  growth is
likely to slow this quarter as the world economy cools and
Europe’s debt crisis worsens, the Ministry of Industry and
Information Technology said.  “The global economy is slowing down, Europe’s sovereign
debt crisis is deepening and the downside risks to the world
economy are rising with international demand still slack and
global commodities and financial markets continuing to be
volatile,” the ministry said in a statement before a briefing
in Beijing today.  The Shanghai Composite Index  tumbled  1.6 percent as of 2:50
p.m. local time, set for the biggest decline since Jan. 16.
 Fitch Ratings  said today that a “hard landing” for China is a
key global risk, after the  International Monetary Fund  cautioned
yesterday that a worsening of Europe’s debt crisis could cut the
nation’s growth rate almost in half from a forecast of 8.2
percent for this year.  “China’s industry development is facing an increasingly
complex domestic and international environment with increased
unstable and uncertain factors,” the ministry said.  Production gains may continue to be relatively rapid for
the year as a whole, Zhu Hongren, a spokesman, said at the
briefing.  Output grew 13.9 percent in 2011 from the previous year,
according to the statistics bureau. The government is targeting
an 11 percent increase this year.  The central bank has left benchmark  interest rates 
unchanged for the past seven months, while making a single cut
to lenders’ reserve requirements, as the government cools house
prices and inflation.  Andrew Colquhoun , the Hong Kong-based head of Asia-Pacific
ratings for Fitch Ratings, defined a hard landing as growth
“significantly lower” than the rating company’s “base case”
of an 8.2 percent expansion in 2012. Colquhoun commented by e-
mail, confirming remarks he made earlier in a panel discussion
in  Hong Kong .  --Zheng Lifei. Editors: Paul Panckhurst, Scott Lanman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at 
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  