-- Toyota Advances After Camry Maker Raises Earnings Forecasts: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-02-08T00:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/toyota-raises-earnings-forecasts-after-production-recovers-from-disasters.html
Toyota Motor Corp. ,  Asia ’s largest
carmaker, climbed to the highest in six months in Tokyo trading
after the company raised its profit forecast.  Toyota climbed as much as 3.7 percent to 3,095 yen, the
highest intraday level since Aug. 4, as of 9:14 a.m. The company
raised its net income, operating profit and revenue forecasts
for the year ending March 31 after the close of trading in Tokyo
yesterday.  Toyota, outsold by  General Motors Co . and  Volkswagen AG 
last year, plans to roll out 19 new models in the U.S. en route
to a record number of global vehicle sales in 2012. Its
resurgence signals GM, VW and  Hyundai Motor Co . may cede back to
the maker of the Camry sedan some of the market share they
gained in 2011.  “The carmaker is boosting production every month,” said
Takashi Aoki, a  fund manager  at Tokyo-based Mizuho Asset
Management Co. “Toyota is going to do whatever it takes to
boost volume sales and to recover as much market share as
possible.”  Analysts are even more optimistic than the Toyota City,
Japan-based carmaker. Before the company raised its fiscal-year
net income forecast to 200 billion yen ($2.6 billion) yesterday,
the  average  of 20 estimates compiled by Bloomberg projected
285.4 billion yen. As recently as January, the average estimate
was above 300 billion yen, even after the carmaker trimmed its
projection to 180 billion yen in December.  The company’s profit peaked at 1.72 trillion yen in the
year ended March 2008.  Less European Exposure  Toyota’s lower reliance on European sales compared with GM
and Volkswagen also works in its favor this year if auto sales
there plunge due to the region’s economic turmoil, according to
Alan Baum, principal of Baum & Associates, a provider of
automobile-industry analysis in West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  “They have a paradoxical advantage, since they are not
particularly strong in  Europe ,” Baum said in an interview
yesterday. “To the extent Europe underperforms, they’re OK with
that.”  For the third quarter ended Dec. 31, net income fell 14
percent to 80.9 billion yen, while revenue increased 4.1 percent
to 4.87 trillion yen, Toyota said.  The return of Toyota’s confidence compares with 2011, when
the company’s business was hit by Japan’s deadly earthquake and
tsunami, floods in the Southeast Asian manufacturing hub of
 Thailand  and a yen that advanced to postwar records.  Toyota’s earnings revisions are also a contrast to Japanese
consumer-electronics makers struggling to recover. In the past
month,  Sony Corp . more than doubled its annual loss forecast,
while  Panasonic Corp . and  Sharp Corp . predicted record losses.  Honda Motor Co .,  Japan ’s third-largest carmaker, last week
lowered its full-year earnings prediction.  Market Share Gains  The recovery in 2012 -- described by Honda President
Takanobu Ito as the year of the “complete rebound” -- is under
way in the U.S. and Japan, Toyota’s two biggest markets. Sales
in the U.S. rose 7.5 percent in January, led by the Camry mid-
size sedan’s 56 percent jump. At home, deliveries of Toyota
passenger vehicles rose 46 percent last month, the biggest gain
since April 2010, according to the  Japan Automobile Dealers
Association .  January’s U.S. gains came even as Toyota pared incentives
by 13 percent per vehicle in the month, according to Autodata,
which is based in  Woodcliff Lake ,  New Jersey . Industrywide
discounts decreased by 5.6 percent.  Toyota may regain market share from GM in the U.S. this
year, according to a Bloomberg survey of five analysts. The
Japanese carmaker may capture 13.8 percent of the market this
year, compared with 12.9 percent last year, while GM may drop to
19 percent from 19.6 percent last year, according to the survey.  Toyota yesterday raised its forecast for sales for the
fiscal year to 7.41 million vehicles, compared with the previous
projection for 7.38 million. Toyota on Feb. 3 forecast sales,
including those of  Hino Motors Ltd . and  Daihatsu Motor Co ., from
January to December will climb to a record 9.58 million
vehicles.  GM, VW  GM deliveries last year rose 7.6 percent to 9 million
vehicles, while VV’s increased 13 percent to 8.16 million.  Jim Lentz , Toyota’s head of sales in the U.S., its biggest
market, said in  Detroit  last month that sales of the Prius would
climb more than 60 percent in the country to a record and exceed
220,000 vehicles, fueled by the new smaller version of the
hybrid hatchback.  In Japan, Toyota’s second-largest market, the government
began waiving some taxes and offering rebates for certified low-
emission vehicles in December to help the domestic industry. The
Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association said Dec. 20 that
incentives will help domestic demand increase by 900,000
vehicles in 2012 after last year’s record drop.  2011 Setbacks  During 2011, sales at Toyota -- excluding those at Daihatsu
and Hino -- shrank 23 percent in Japan and declined 6.7 percent
in the U.S., contributing to Toyota losing its top spot in
global annual vehicle sales to GM. Growth of deliveries in  China 
slowed to about 4 percent, the slowest since Toyota officially
entered the market in 2002, according to  Shiori Hashimoto , a
company spokeswoman. Honda last week forecast a 12 percent drop
in revenue.  GM, Ford Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC have benefited,
with all three adding market share last year in the U.S. for the
first time since 1988. Hyundai and  Kia Motors Corp . also gained
at the expense of their disaster-stricken rivals, more than
doubling the U.S. share they held in 2005 last year.  Toyota is counting on the revamped Camry, which went on
sale in October in the U.S., and new versions of the Prius to
regain market share and boost U.S. deliveries 16 percent this
year to 1.9 million. Toyota will also begin selling its new 86
sports coupe in Japan from April 6 as part of President Akio Toyoda’s push to widen its appeal.  Improved Competition  The competition isn’t standing still. Ford is preparing to
sell a redesigned Fusion mid-size sedan and GM plans a revamped
Chevrolet Malibu this year. Hyundai is planning a Brazilian
version of the Santa Fe sport-utility vehicle and smaller
affiliate Kia is preparing to introduce the K9 mid-size sedan.  “U.S. automakers are back with improved financial
situations and strong products, and the Koreans have very good
products as well,” said Takahiko Ijichi, a Toyota senior
managing officer responsible for accounting. “Competition is
definitely tough.”  Still, Toyota may be underestimating the magnitude of the
rebound this year.  “Their new forecast only reflects the sales boost they’re
expecting from Japan, so I think we can expect a little more,”
said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief executive officer at Fukoku Capital
Management Inc. in  Tokyo , which manages the equivalent of $7.4
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  