-- Oysters, Pilots Get Hunk of $50 Million Royal Bank of Canada Aid
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/oysters-pilots-benefit-from-50-million-royal-bank-of-canada-aid-program.html
Chesapeake Bay oysters are in
terrible trouble. Blame pollution, disease and overharvesting --
current numbers may be less than one percent of historical
levels.  Oysters are not simply gourmet delights. Their filtering
system helps keep water clean and clear, and many fish species
thrive in oyster reefs.  When the  Chesapeake Bay Foundation  was looking for funding
to help the oysters, aid came from a surprising source: a
Canadian financial institution.  The U.S. unit of the  Royal Bank of Canada  gave Chesapeake
Bay $110,000 for the project.  “Water is an iconic central resource,” said John Taft,
58, chief executive officer of RBC Wealth Management USA, by
phone from his office in  Minneapolis ,  Minnesota .  “We cannot survive without clean water, and water
resources around the world are depleting,” he added. “The
Chesapeake Bay’s watershed touches more than 15 million people,
so it has an impact.”  Through its Blue Water Project, the 10-year, $50 million
program the bank launched in 2007, Canada’s biggest lender by
assets seeks to become a leader in boosting water programs
globally.  “The RBC program is very significant to the conservation
community,” Pam Wilson, Chesapeake Bay Foundation’s director of
corporate and foundation development, said by phone. “RBC has
significant reach and depth and can bring forward issues of
environmental concerns.”  Blue Water  In the past five years, the bank has awarded $32 million in
aid to more than 450 water-related projects and organizations
mainly in the U.S.,  Canada , the U.K. and the Caribbean.  The Blue Water project is also a way for the bank to build
its philanthropic profile outside its Canadian base, Taft said.  “As a financial institution, we’re in the stewardship
business,” Taft said. “You just can’t be in it; you have to
live it and breathe it.”  The bank’s philanthropic largesse also came to the aid of
Wyoming-based nonprofit LightHawk, which enlists 200 volunteer
pilots to assist educational tours and help sustainability
projects, including water conservation.  The first $80,000 installment of RBC’s 3-year $240,000
grant to LightHawk helped the organization cover about 20 percent
of its $1 million annual budget.  More Flights  “This has increased our capacity to provide flights,”
Laura Stone, LightHawk’s director of annual giving and
foundations, said by phone.  RBC’s past grant recipients include the New York Harbor
Foundation,  National Geographic Society , the  St. Paul ,
Minnesota-based  Friends of the Mississippi River , the James
River Association in Richmond,  Virginia  and the  Woodland Trust 
in the U.K. to support the growth of trees for cleaner water and
flood management.  “The quality of the organization asking for money is
critical,” Taft said. “The question is: Do they have a track
record to deal with water issues?”  RBC doesn’t have the ecological field all to itself: J.P.
Morgan, the investment banking unit of  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,
gave $1 million last year to  Planet Water’s AquaTower  projects
to help provide drinking water for 100,000 people in six Asian
countries.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 