-- Palm Oil Stockpiles in Malaysia Seen Dropping to Five-Month Low
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-02-07T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/palm-oil-stockpiles-in-malaysia-seen-dropping-to-five-month-low.html
Palm oil inventory in  Malaysia , the
world’s second-biggest supplier after  Indonesia , probably
declined to a five-month low in January after production fell
for a third month, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  Stockpiles  fell 2.4 percent to 1.99 million tons, dropping
below the 2 million-mark for the first time since August,
according to the median estimate in a survey of three analysts
and two plantation companies. Inventories were 1.42 million tons
a year earlier, according to the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, which
is scheduled to publish its estimates on Feb. 10.  Declining reserves may help futures in Malaysia reverse a
monthly decline in January, and potentially boost profits at
companies including  Sime Darby Bhd. , the world’s biggest
publicly traded palm-oil producer. Credit Suisse Group raised
its forecast of average palm oil prices for 2012 by 28 percent
to 3,200 ringgit ($1,060) a ton in a report on Feb. 1, saying
supplies will be capped, while demand remains strong.  “Stock levels should decline because exports are still
slightly stronger than production,” Arhnue Tan, vice president
at Alliance Research Sdn., said in an e-mail. Production will
drop “due to some holidays during the month of January and due
to the general seasonal downcycle.”  Output  fell 13 percent to 1.3 million tons, the lowest
since February last year, from 1.49 million tons in December,
according to the survey.  Exports  may drop 15 percent to 1.35
million tons, the biggest decline since August 2010, the survey
showed.  Shipments  fell 12 percent to 1.32 million tons in
January from a month earlier, surveyor  Intertek  said Jan. 31.  Export Trends  “Most people are looking forward to the export-data trends
for February with the hope that there will be some recovery in
demand, because if demand is weak there will be concern that
stocks will stay high even during the lean production period,”
Ivy Ng, an analyst at CIMB Group Holdings Bhd., said by phone
from  Kuala Lumpur . “Unless demand picks up, there’s nothing
really to spur the outlook for prices.”  The April-delivery contract gained 1 percent 3,085 ringgit
a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange on Feb. 3. The most-
active contract lost 3.1 percent last month after reaching a
six-week high of 3,244 ringgit on Jan. 3.  Output in Malaysia, will reach 19 million tons this year as
more plantations mature, Plantation Industries and Commodities
Minister Bernard Dompok said Jan. 19. Output gained 11 percent
to 18.9 million tons in 2011 from a year earlier, according to
data from the nation’s board.  Futures may trade in a range of 3,000 ringgit to 3,300
ringgit a ton this month as prices would still be supported by
concerns that dry weather in  South America  may damage the
soybean crop, CIMB’s Ng said. Palm oil and soybean oil are
substitutes in food and fuel uses.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  may lower its output
forecast for  Brazil , the second-largest soybean producer after
the U.S., to 71.76 million tons from a January prediction of 74
million tons, according to the average estimate of 22 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The harvest in  Argentina  may be
lowered to 48.58 million tons from 50.5 million tons, the survey
shows. The agency is set to release its latest supply outlook on
Feb. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  