-- Paul McCartney, Elton John to Headline Queen’s Jubilee Show
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-02-07T14:46:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/paul-mccartney-to-lead-elton-john-annie-lennox-at-queen-s-jubilee-concert.html
Former Beatle  Paul McCartney  will
star in a London concert to mark the U.K. queen’s Diamond
Jubilee on June 4.  McCartney will be joined by other musical knights including
 Elton John ,  Tom Jones  and Cliff Richard for a show on a
temporary stage designed by architect  Mark Fisher  near the Queen
Victoria Memorial in front of Buckingham Palace, the event’s
organizers announced in an e-mailed release today.  Dame Shirley Bassey and Annie Lennox will also take part.
Newer pop stars will be showcasing their hits too -- boy band
JLS, as well as Jessie J, 23, known for “Price Tag,” and Ed
Sheeran, 20, with his song “The A Team.”  Britain is planning a summer of shows tied in with Queen Elizabeth II’s 60-year reign and the  Olympic Games , which are
staged from July 27 through Aug. 12.  Event co-coordinator Gary Barlow wouldn’t say if his band
Take That! would perform. More acts from outside the U.K. will
be added to the list, he said. Classical music will be
represented by Chinese pianist Lang Lang and British tenor Alfie
Boe.  Tickets for the free event are limited to 10,000 people.
The British Broadcasting Corp., which will put the event on live
television and radio, is to organize a national  ballot , which
will have an online and postal application process open until
March 2.  Jubilee Picnic  Some tickets will be given to representatives of charities.
Ticket-holders are invited to a Jubilee picnic in  Buckingham
Palace  Gardens in the afternoon before the evening concert.  Both the Duke of Cambridge and Prince Harry had requested
that certain artists take part, Barlow said, declining to say
which ones. The Queen, Duke of Edinburgh and other members of
the British royal family will watch the 2½-hour show, which may
include a ballet display, Barlow said.  For the Queen’s Golden Jubilee concert in 2002, guitarist
Brian May played the British national anthem on the palace roof.
Barlow said the plan was to better the last show.  By moving the stage from the rear of the palace to the
front, it opened it up and organizers said as many as 500,000
people may gather in the Mall and Green Park nearby for
transmissions of the show.  Information:  http://www.bbc.co.uk/diamondjubilee .  To join the ticket ballot, click on that page or send a
postcard to The Diamond Jubilee Concert 2012, PO Box 798,
Manchester M60 1WU, U.K.  (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in  London  at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 