-- Pennsylvania Senate Approves Plan to Let Counties Tax Natural Gas Wells
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-02-07T19:37:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/pennsylvania-to-vote-on-permitting-counties-to-tax-natural-gas-fracking.html
Pennsylvania ’s Senate passed a bill
to let counties levy fees on natural-gas wells, which the state
estimates may generate revenue of about $211 million this year.  Proceeds of the 15-year annual fees, based on the average
price of natural gas, would mostly be used to help communities
affected by drilling in Marcellus Shale deposits, according to
the bill, which passed today, 31 to 19.  The action in Harrisburg comes as several states consider
measures to mitigate the effects of hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, to extract gas. In  Ohio , lawmakers are weighing a fee
on drillers that use the technique, while in  Maryland , the
government is evaluating whether to levy fees and taxes on the
practice if it lets companies employ it there.  Pennsylvania  is
also coping with receipts that have trailed budget estimates by
$497.2 million, or 3.5 percent, this fiscal year.  “This money will serve numerous worthwhile purposes,”
Senate President Pro Tempore Joe Scarnati, a Republican from
Brockway, said today before the vote. Some of the money would go
to statewide environmental needs, according to the bill.  Pennsylvania, the only major U.S. natural-gas producer that
doesn’t seek extraction taxes from drilling companies, has more
natural-gas reserves contained in the Marcellus Shale formation
than any other state. Governor Tom Corbett, a first-term
Republican who campaigned on a pledge to hold the line on
levies, has said taxing the industry would deter development.  Far-Reaching Benefits  “The benefits of this growing industry are reaching every
corner of our state and we are determined to see this industry
produce new jobs and increased savings,” Corbett said. He said
he would sign the bill should it reach his desk. The measure may
be voted on in the  House of Representatives  this week.  Corbett spoke on the legislation during his budget
presentation today, in which he unveiled a $27.1 billion
spending plan. The amount is little changed from the current
fiscal year, in which funds for schools such as  Pennsylvania
State University  were cut. The governor would reduce aid to the
college by 30 percent next year.  The fee measure provides a compromise that meets the needs
of communities without overburdening the industry, Scarnati
said. Municipalities can’t pass more stringent ordinances
against drilling, and companies that run into barriers can sue
or ask a state agency to review local rules. The legislation
also creates statewide standards for well setbacks.  Local Support  Organizations including the County Commissioners of
Pennsylvania and the Pennsylvania State Association of Township
Supervisors backed the bill in letters to lawmakers.  In its first year of production, a well would be assessed
in a range of $40,000 to $60,000, based on  gas prices , according
to a committee report released yesterday. With prices averaging
about $2.74 per cubic foot in 2012, Pennsylvania would charge
$45,000 for each well in its initial year.  If the price falls below $2.25 per cubic foot, each well
would be charged $40,000 to start. The fee would be levied at
$60,000, the highest amount, if the average jumped to $6 per
cubic foot. By the 11th year and until the end of the fee
period, the levies would decrease to either $5,000 or $10,000
per well, based on prices.  The bill would let counties decide through resolutions
whether to demand the fee, and if they don’t, they could be
overruled if half of their municipalities by population agree to
seek the levies.  ‘Selling Out’  “We are selling out” to energy companies posting billion-
dollar profits, said state Senator Andy Dinniman, a West Chester
Democrat, before the vote. He wanted a higher fee to go toward
education and other services. Republicans hold a majority in
both the Senate and the House.  Shale wells in southwest Pennsylvania cost about $4 million
each,  Range Resources Corp. , one of the most-active drillers in
the region, said today in materials prepared for a Credit Suisse
energy conference presentation. The Marcellus Shale is the
second most-profitable unconventional U.S. formation, thanks to
a high proportion of ethane and other petroleum derivatives
sought by chemical makers. Only the Eagle Ford Shale in Texas
yields higher returns, according to the Fort Worth company.  The Keystone State has experienced a boom in companies
seeking to tap Marcellus deposits since 2008, when 195 wells
were drilled. In 2011, 1,976 wells were drilled, according to
the Pennsylvania Environmental Protection Department.  Fee as Tax  Although the proposed fee would be left to counties to
implement, it should be considered a tax since the rate is tied
to gas prices,  said  Matthew J. Brouillette, president and chief
executive officer of the Commonwealth Foundation for Public
Policy Alternatives, a Harrisburg-based organization that
promotes free-market policy and opposes a levy on drillers.  Fracking, which involves pumping water mixed with chemicals
and sand deep into subsurface rock to release gas, has been
employed in states such as Texas and  Oklahoma  since 1949. Use of
the technique has expanded with the adoption of horizontal
drilling that lets wells bring up more gas.  Ohio, which already taxes companies based on how much gas
they produce, may add a fee similar to the one contemplated in
Pennsylvania. Governor  John Kasich , a Republican, wants to
charge drillers state-set fees to help local governments pay for
damage to roads and infrastructure caused by the activity, and
to avoid local communities enacting their own levies.  In Maryland, where no fracking permits have been issued,
each 1 percent of a tax could raise as much as $93.7 million
over 50 years, according to a study requested by Governor  Martin O’Malley , a Democrat.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  