-- Petrobras Will Hold Off Dollar Bond Sales, Studies Yen Offer
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-02-08T20:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/petrobras-will-hold-off-dollar-bond-sales-studies-yen-market.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Latin
America ’s largest company by market value, will wait until next
year to sell dollar bonds to avoid flooding the market as it
studies a sale in yen.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based producer is known,
will wait until late 2012 before possibly selling more bonds in
euros, Chief Financial Officer Almir Barbassa said in a
telephone interview yesterday from  Rio de Janeiro . Petrobras
sold a record $7 billion in dollar bonds last week after selling
a combined $3.5 billion in euro and pounds in December.  “We just did a large operation in the European market,”
Barbassa said. “We’re not going to do a small operation. To
return, it has to be a big one, so we need to create the
conditions.”  Petrobras,  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil producer, plans to
borrow as much as $18 billion a year through 2015, mainly from
international markets, to more than double production by 2020
and develop the largest oil discoveries in the Americas in more
than three decades.  The company’s Feb. 1 sale of dollar debt matched  SABMiller
Plc (SAB) ’s $7 billion offering last month as the largest dollar-
denominated corporate  bond issue  this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Demand surpassed $25 billion as investors
sought alternatives to European assets and lower-yielding
investment-grade debt, allowing Petrobras to sell at record-low
borrowing costs, the company said Jan. 6.  ‘Out of the Market’  “If they do issuances too frequently, they won’t get $25
billion in demand as they did last time,” Klaus Spielkamp, a
fixed-income trader at Bulltick  Capital Markets  in Miami, said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “They’d rather do a big
issuance and then stay out of the market. They may do some
issuances in Swiss Francs or yens later this year but it would
be something small.”  Petrobras issued 700 million pounds ($1.1 billion) of bonds
due 2026 on Dec. 5, four days after selling 1.85 billion euros
($2.4 billion) of debt maturing in 2018 and 2022 to help finance
its five-year $224.7 billion investment plan..  The company’s A3 rating from Moody’s Investors Service,
four steps above junk, will help it sell bonds to Japanese
investors, Barbassa said. Petrobras is rated BBB by Standard &
Poor’s and Fitch Ratings, the second-lowest investment-grade
level. Petrobras hasn’t sold yen bonds since 2006, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Deepwater Drilling  “It was a market more for companies rated A, A+, and it is
changing,” Barbassa said. “We have a rating from Moody’s in
this category. The market could open up for us, we’re
watching.”  Petrobras will continue borrowing from private and state-
run banks this year as it boosts spending on the drilling rigs
and platforms it needs to find and produce oil in waters as deep
as 2,800 meters (9,186 feet), Barbassa said. The company
borrowed $18 billion last year, including about $10 billion in
bonds, he said.  Petrobras fell 0.7 percent to 25.43 reais in  Sao Paulo . The
stock has climbed 18 percent this year, more than the 16 percent
increase in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  