-- Pfizer’s Breast-Cancer Drug Worsens Bone Loss in Older Women
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-07T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/pfizer-s-breast-cancer-drug-worsens-bone-loss-in-older-women-study-finds.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s breast-cancer drug
Aromasin worsened bone loss in post-menopausal women, raising
the chance of fractures and calling into question whether the
pill’s prevention benefits outweigh its risks.  In a trial among 351 women at risk of developing breast
cancer, those who received Aromasin lost about three times more
bone-mineral density after two years than those who took a
placebo, researchers led by  Angela Cheung  at Toronto’s
University Health Network  wrote  today in The Lancet Oncology.  The result contradicts earlier studies that suggested
Aromasin, also known as exemestane, may help stimulate bone
growth. It may also cause doctors and patients to question
whether the cancer-preventing benefits associated with the drug
outweigh the risks in healthy women, said Jane Cauley, a
professor of epidemiology at the  University of Pittsburgh .  “One might not be too reassured about the use of
exemestane in the prevention setting,” Cauley wrote in an
editorial accompanying the research.  Aromasin has been used since 1999 to treat  breast cancer 
and stop it from returning. A study last year found it can also
be used to prevent tumors in women at risk of the disease. While
Aromasin isn’t approved for prevention of breast cancer, U.S.
doctors are allowed to prescribe approved drugs for other uses.  The treatment generated $361 million in  sales  last year for
New York-based Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker. The
company lost patent protection last year for the medicine in the
U.S., Europe and  Japan .  Not Approved Use  “The use of Aromasin as preventative therapy in post-
menopausal women at high risk for developing breast cancer is
not included in the Aromasin label in the U.S. and  Europe , as
well as other countries,” Jenifer Antonacci, a Pfizer
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “It’s important to note that
these data are in the National Comprehensive Cancer Network
guidelines relating to the management of post-menopausal women
at high risk for developing breast cancer.”  In today’s study, researchers weren’t able to assess the
long-term risk of fractures because the women were followed only
for two years. Previous studies have shown that women treated
for as much as five years with so-called aromatase inhibitors --
the class of drugs including Aromasin -- have no increase in
their risk of fractures when compared with placebo or no
treatment, said Paul Goss, a professor of medicine at  Harvard
Medical School  who participated in the research.  “There are no clinically actionable data presented,” Goss
said in an e-mail. “The bone quality findings are of interest
to researchers but need to be interpreted with caution until
data with longer treatment, and after treatment has stopped,
have been demonstrated.”  The study was funded by the Canadian Breast Cancer Research
Alliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  