-- Philippines Deploys Military to Aid Rescue After Quake Kills at Least 48
-- B y   C l a r i s s a   B a t i n o   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-02-07T10:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/philippines-deploys-military-to-aid-rescue-after-quake-kills-at-least-48.html
The  Philippines  deployed 400 soldiers
to help with rescue operations after an earthquake killed at
least 48 people and triggered landslides that left dozens more 
missing.  A landslide set off by the  6.8-magnitude temblor  killed 29
people in the central city of Barangay Planas, Col. Francisco
Zosimo Patrimonio said. Fourteen died in nearby areas, and 92
people are missing in total, Patrimonio said.  The Philippines has been battered by natural disasters in
recent months, killing dozens of people and sparking criticism
of President  Benigno Aquino ’s handling of the crises. The latest
deaths could revive charges that the government hasn’t planned
for such emergencies, Benito Lim, a political science professor
at the Ateneo de Manila University, said by phone.  “This government is too reactive instead of anticipating
disasters,” Lim said. “We are considered one of the most
disaster-prone areas in the world. We have yet to see a
contingency plan to address the problem of natural disasters.’  More than 700 aftershocks have been recorded as of this
morning, said Renato Solidum, director of the Institute of
Volcanology and Seismology. The official death toll from the
National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council was 15,
with 71 people missing and 52 injured, according to a  government
statement .  Military Deployment  Today’s deployment doubled the number of troops that were
originally assigned to rescue operations after the quake struck
the Negros and Cebu region yesterday. It was the worst disaster
to hit the country since Tropical Storm Washi killed more than
1,200 people in December.  Aquino planned to fly to one of the quake-hit areas
tomorrow to inspect damage, his spokesman, Edwin Lacierda, said
in an e-mail. The military sent five helicopters and two ships
to help with relief operations, and the government made an
appeal for food and clothing donations, Lacierda said.  ‘‘We are in the process of evaluating the damage at the
moment,” Aquino’s spokeswoman Abigail Valte said in a mobile-
phone message today, when asked if Aquino has a disaster
response plan. “We are prepared to provide whatever assistance
is necessary.”  Children Killed  The dead included two children killed after walls
collapsed, according to the council. Casualties may rise as an
estimated 72 people were buried by a landslide in La Libertad,
Patrimonio said in a mobile-phone message.  Aftershocks slowed rescue operations in the city of
Guihulngan, where electricity and water supplies were knocked
out, Mayor Ernesto Reyes said by phone today. Workers delivering
water and restoring power were also slowed because at least
eight bridges were damaged, Patrimonio said.  “The whole mountain collapsed on the residents and they
were swept into the river,” Reyes said. “Our problem here is
that we don’t have electricity, we don’t have water and we don’t
have food. We need medicines.”  Local governments need to improve disaster management,
especially in landslide-prone areas, Interior Secretary Jesse Robredo said today. ‘There should be more regular drills and
more intensive assessment on landslide prone areas in case of
earthquakes,’’ Robredo said in an e-mailed statement.  Aftershocks and false information after the quake threw the
city of Cebu into a “state of panic,” Mayor Michael Rama said
in a phone interview yesterday. “Information spread that
seawater reached some parts of the city proper, so many people
panicked,” he said.  Offices, schools and malls were shut in most parts of
central Philippines hit by the temblor, while  power lines  were
brought down. A 7.7-magnitude quake killed more than 1,500
people on the main island of  Luzon  in  July 1990 .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clarissa Batino in Manila at 
 cbatino@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  