-- Philippine Peso Strengthens After Australia Keeps Rate on Hold
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-02-07T09:28:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/philippine-peso-drops-on-speculation-yield-premium-to-narrow.html
The Philippine peso strengthened
after the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  unexpectedly kept  interest
rates  on hold, signaling it is optimistic the global economy is
recovering. Bonds declined.  The currency dropped earlier as data showed Philippine
inflation eased to a 13-month low, stoking speculation the
central bank will cut interest rates and reduce the country’s
yield advantage. The Reserve Bank of Australia left its cash
rate target unchanged at 4.25 percent as predicted by three of
27 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The rest forecast a 25-
basis point cut. RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said sentiment in
financial markets had “generally improved” since December.  “There was some risk-taking after there was no cut in the
RBA rate,” said Lito Mercado, head of trading at Rizal
Commercial Banking Corp. in  Manila .  The peso rose 0.3 percent to close at 42.405 per dollar in
Manila, according to Tullett Prebon Plc. The currency fell as
much as 0.2 percent earlier.  Philippine consumer prices rose 3.9 percent in January from
a year earlier, compared with 4.2 percent in December. Central
Bank Governor Amando Tetangco said today slowing inflation means
policy makers have “policy space should the need to support
growth persist.”  Ten-year government bonds dropped after five days of gains.
The yield on the 6.375 percent debt due January 2022 increased
seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage point, to 5.20 percent,
according to noon fixing prices from the Philippine Dealing &
Exchange Corp.  “There was profit-taking by a couple of banks,” Mercado
said. “Most banks are still liquid and still looking for
yields.”  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas lowered the rate it pays
lenders for overnight deposits by a quarter of a percentage
point to 4.25 percent on Jan. 19. Policy makers next meet on
March 1. The Philippine economy grew 3.7 percent in 2011,
compared with a revised 7.6 percent expansion a year earlier,
official data showed on Jan. 30.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 