-- PMC-Sierra Drops After Sales Forecast Misses Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/pmc-sierra-shares-decline-after-quarterly-sales-forecast-misses-estimates.html
PMC-Sierra Inc. , a maker of chips for
computer-networking and data-storage equipment, declined in late
trading yesterday after it forecast lower sales than estimated,
citing weakness in spending by communications companies.  First-quarter sales will be $130 million to $136 million,
the  Santa Clara , California-based company said on a conference
call. That fell short of the $153.2 million predicted by
analysts on average in a  Bloomberg survey .  PMC-Sierra joins a chorus of networking companies citing a
slump in demand from Internet-service providers and other
communications customers. Chief Executive Officer Greg Lang said
on the call that spending by those businesses slowed late in
2011 in “every major market from Europe to  North America  to
 Asia .” The company said it wasn’t sure when demand would
recover.  The shares fell  as much as 11 percent  to $6.03 in extended
trading after the report. The stock, up 22 percent this year,
closed at $6.74 earlier in the day.  PMC-Sierra’s remarks echoed a report last month from
 Juniper Networks Inc ., the No. 2 maker of networking equipment,
which blamed a disappointing forecast on sluggish demand from
communications providers. Sunnyvale, California-based Juniper
gets more than half its revenue from those customers.  Cisco’s Report  Cisco Systems Inc.  plans to deliver its quarterly results
tomorrow, giving investors a sense of how the slowdown is
affecting the world’s biggest maker of networking equipment.  San
Jose , California-based Cisco gets almost a third of its revenue
from service providers, said  Joanna Makris , an analyst with
Mizuho Securities USA in  New York .  PMC-Sierra’s fourth-quarter net income rose to $28.4
million, or 12 cents a share, from $10.9 million, or 5 cents, a
year earlier, the company said in a statement. Excluding some
items, profit was 13 cents a share, matching analyst estimates.
Revenue fell 4.2 percent to $152.6 million, short of the $155
million projected.  The stock got a boost last month when investor Ralph Whitworth’s Relational Investors LLC increased its stake to
become PMC-Sierra’s third-biggest shareholder,  according to data
compiled by Bloomberg . The firm said it was unhappy with PMC-
Sierra’s performance and may push the company to pursue
“strategic alternatives,” such as cutting business lines or
combining with other companies. The shares jumped more than 10
percent on Jan. 18 after the announcement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  