-- Popa Says Vienna II Initiative to Focus on Banking Groups
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-02-07T15:31:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/popa-says-vienna-ii-initiative-to-focus-on-banking-groups-1-.html
Romanian central bank Deputy Governor
Cristian Popa said the so-called Vienna II initiative on keeping
stability in eastern  Europe ’s economies through continued
lending should be a binding agreement focused on banking groups
and not individual countries.  European policy makers will probably seek to get a
multilateral commitment of the banks to continue lending in
eastern Europe as they plan to prevent “a disordered and rapid
credit squeeze,” following increased capital requirements, Popa
told reporters in Bucharest today.  The Vienna Initiative group of regulators and policy makers
plan to hold talks in March with the banks over a new accord as
they try to shield economic growth in eastern Europe against
contagion from the euro area’s deepening debt crisis, according
to Popa. A first Vienna accord helped in 2009 stabilizes the
region as the banks didn’t pull out their money.  “The banks’ commitment must be firm not just a gentlemen’s
agreement with optional requirements, as the first time,” Popa
said. “I think it would be in the banks’ best interest to agree
on such a plan because it levels up the playing field for all
lenders.”  New capital and liquidity requirements for the western
banks, such as  UniCredit SpA ,  Erste Group Bank AG  and  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, which control three-quarters of eastern Europe’s
banking system, threaten to curb credit needed to fund the
region’s companies and households.  Core Capital Reserves  The European Banking Authority told banks to have core
capital reserves of 9 percent by the end of June after writing
down their holdings of sovereign debt. That may require an
additional 115 billion euros ($152 billion) of capital,
according to the EBA.  Austria ’s central bank also told its three biggest banks to
limit lending in eastern Europe to 1.1 times the funding they
can raise locally. It also imposed a capital surcharge whose
size depends on their eastern European business.  Austrian lenders own about 39 percent of the Romanian
market. Erste’s Banca Comerciala Romana SA is the country’s
biggest lender, followed by  BRD Group Societe Generale SA.   Romania signed in 2008 the so-called Vienna Initiative, a
pledge in the form of a gentlemen’s agreement, from Europe’s
biggest nine banks to back their subsidiaries in the country
after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. The accord
prevented a capital outflow from the country throughout a two-
year recession, according to the central bank.  “I think the involvement of a higher authority such as the
Ecofin, the body of European finance ministers, in the Vienna II
agreement is possible,” Popa said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  