-- Port Authority Needs ‘Top-to-Bottom Overhaul’ of Management, Audit Says
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-02-08T15:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/port-authority-needs-top-to-bottom-overhaul-as-trade-center-costs-mount.html
The Port Authority of New York and
New Jersey , which is redeveloping the World Trade Center, needs
a “top-to-bottom overhaul” because of poor management and a
lack of cost controls, according to an interim audit released by
its board.  The cost of the World Trade Center project in  Lower
Manhattan  has grown to $14.8 billion from about $11 billion
estimated in 2008, the audit found. After third-party
reimbursements, the net cost to the authority has climbed to
$7.7 billion from $6 billion.  The auditors found “a challenged and dysfunctional
organization suffering from a lack of consistent leadership, a
siloed underlying bureaucracy, poorly coordinated capital
planning process, insufficient cost controls and a lack of
transparent and effective oversight of the World Trade Center
program that has obscured full awareness of billions of dollars
in exposure to the Port Authority,” according to their report,
released yesterday.  “This record of historic failure must be reversed,” New
York Governor  Andrew Cuomo  and New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said in a joint statement yesterday. “Steps have
already been taken in the last two years, but much more must be
done.”  Audit Required  The governors required the audit in August, when they
backed a Port Authority plan to raise tolls $4.50 over five
years for the bridges and tunnels it operates.  The rise in trade center costs “was driven by policy
decisions on both sides” of the  Hudson River , Authority
Chairman David Samson said during a conference call with
reporters yesterday. In rushing to open the Sept. 11 memorial
before the 10-year anniversary of the 2001 terrorist attacks,
“decisions were made and management controls slipped,” he
said.  “Those decisions also caused the priorities of the  Port
Authority  to be reset and had a distorted effect on the
authority’s allocation of resources,” Samson said.  Pushing to get the memorial done in time increased costs at
the adjacent mass-transit hub, a more than $3 billion project
designed by Spanish architect  Santiago Calatrava , according to
the audit. Costs also mushroomed because the authority took on
work related to the memorial, New York City subway operations
and site security.  On Schedule  Some of those costs were part of getting the memorial
garden -- with its waterfalls on the footprints of the two
destroyed towers -- completed on schedule, according to the
report.  Authority  Vice Chairman Scott Rechler said on the
conference call that the agency would seek to recover some of
the funds from the city, the National September 11 Memorial
Museum and the  Metropolitan Transportation Authority , the state
agency that runs the subways. Some costs won’t be recoverable,
he said. The audit estimated that the agency is owed $1.6
billion for the work.  “Opening the memorial in time for the 10th anniversary was
a key achievement in transforming the site of a global tragedy
into a memorial that welcomes visitors from around the world,”
Julie Wood, spokeswoman for New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
said in a statement.  The mayor is chairman of the board of directors of the 9/11
Memorial. He is also founder and majority owner of Bloomberg
News parent Bloomberg LP.  Debt Doubled  The Port Authority’s exposure to debt has more than doubled
over the past 10 years, to about $19.5 billion at the end of
2011, and future  cash flow  from operations alone isn’t
sufficient to fund capital projects under way, the audit found.  A four-member special committee led the review with help
from  Navigant Consulting Inc . and  Rothschild Inc.  The authority
oversees the region’s airports, marine terminals and seaports,
PATH commuter rail line, six tunnels and bridges between New
York and  New Jersey , the Port Authority Bus Terminal and the
World Trade Center.  Samson, along with Rechler, and Commissioners William
Schuber and Jeffrey Lynford, formed the four-member committee
that conducted the review, which the governors ordered after an
audit by New York Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  found the agency
had paid $85.7 million in overtime in 2010 to 5,360 of its
employees of its 6,977 employees.  Auditors found that the total cost of compensation and
benefits for average active Port Authority employees exceeds
$143,000. They said 93 percent of authority employees make no
contribution to health care, compared with 100 percent of New
York and New Jersey employees who do.  “These factual findings underscore the need to examine
employee compensation and benefits, and bring them in line with
public-employee benchmarks,” Samson said on yesterday’s call.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net ;
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Schoifet at 
 mschoifet@bloomberg.net  