-- Private Screeners Won’t Save Money, TSA’s Pistole Says
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-02-07T23:56:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/private-screeners-won-t-save-money-tsa-s-pistole-says-correct-.html
(Corrects Rogers’s state in the 10th paragraph.)  Transportation Security Administrator
John Pistole defended his resistance to letting security
contractors resume screening at more U.S. airports, as called
for under a bill awaiting President  Barack Obama ’s signature.  Screening costs at the 16 U.S. airports that currently
employ private companies are 3 percent to 9 percent higher than
those using TSA employees, Pistole said today.  “I didn’t see any clear and substantial advantage to
expanding the program,” Pistole, testifying at a hearing of a
House Homeland Security panel, said of the agency’s evaluation
of previous applications from airports to return to private
screening.  Pistole answered criticism by  John Mica , chairman of the
House transportation committee, who proposed the requirement to
allow more private screeners. Mica, a Florida Republican,
attended the hearing to question Pistole even though he’s not a
member of the Homeland Security panel.  TSA has spent too much money on recruiting and has had too
much turnover among personnel, Mica said.  “No one is saying do away with the federal government,”
Mica said. “We want to get you into the security business and
out of the personnel business.”  Private Screeners  Before the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks, airlines were
responsible for  aviation security  and hired security companies
to operate checkpoints. The law that created the TSA put it in
charge of security while requiring five airports to have private
screeners under a two-year pilot program.  The number later grew to 16. Pistole halted new
participation in January 2011.  The U.S. agency must let airports switch to private
companies for screeners unless it can show the move wouldn’t be
cost-effective and would be detrimental to security, according
to the legislation, which the Senate cleared yesterday. The
House approved the measure Feb. 3.  Pistole, under questioning from Representative Mike Rogers,
an Alabama Republican, said the agency will have to turn over
screening at a “substantial number” of airports under the
pending law.  Democrats on the panel questioned why Republicans wanted to
move toward private screeners if the government wouldn’t save
money and passengers would have to go through the same steps at
the airport they do now.  “The 9-11 day of horror was partly on the watch of
privatized screeners,” said Representative Sheila Jackson Lee,
a Texas Democrat. “I see nothing that’s changed today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  