-- Private-Equity Lobbying Helped Protect Romney’s Tax Benefits
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-02-07T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/private-equity-lobbying-protected-romney-s-tax-benefit-of-carried-interest.html
The largest U.S. private-equity funds
and venture capital firms have relied on a five-year,
multimillion-dollar lobbying campaign to protect the carried
interest tax break that helped drive presidential candidate Mitt Romney’s 2010 effective  tax rate  below 14 percent.  With the issue gaining attention in this year’s U.S.
presidential election campaign, the investment industry is again
girding to defend its preferential tax treatment.  Blackstone
Group LP (BX)  alone spent $5 million in 2011 lobbying Congress on
issues including the tax treatment of carried interest.  “If anything preserves the status quo, it will be the very
heavy lobbying campaign,” said Edward Kleinbard, a law
professor at the University of  Southern California . “There’s no
other reason for the subsidy to survive.”  Opponents of the tax rate for carried interest see this as
an opportunity to press for change. Romney released his 2010 tax
returns on Jan. 24, revealing he paid an effective tax rate of
13.9 percent on income of $21.6 million.  Romney, a former Republican governor of Massachusetts and
co-founder of  Bain Capital  LLC, has come to personify the debate
over whether the carried interest paid to private-equity
managers should be taxed at the capital gains rate of 15 percent
while ordinary income is taxed at rates as high as 35 percent.  Tax Fairness Debate  Democrats view the carried interest issue as an element of
the tax fairness theme that President Barack Obama is
highlighting in his re-election campaign. Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means
Committee, plans to introduce a bill as soon as this week that
would tax carried interest at the same rate as regular income,
according to spokesman Josh Drobnyk. The bill probably won’t
advance in the Republican-controlled chamber this year.  Carried interest is the profits-based compensation that
private-equity managers, real estate investors and members of
oil and gas partnerships often receive. They get a portion of
their clients’ earnings as investment income if the underlying
earnings are treated that way. Levin and Obama call carried
interest compensation for work, which they say should be viewed
like wages for tax purposes.  Private-equity firms invested more than $148 billion in
1,234 U.S.-based companies in 2010, according to the Private
Equity Growth Capital Council. The industry says it employs more
than 8 million people.  Washington Lobbyists  Companies opposed to changing the tax treatment of carried
interest have hired veteran  Washington  lobbyists to make their
case. Wayne Berman of Ogilvy Government Relations is
Blackstone’s top lobbyist on the issue. He was an assistant
commerce secretary during George H.W. Bush’s administration.
Other Ogilvy lobbyists working for Blackstone include Drew Maloney, who was a staffer for former House Majority Whip Tom DeLay, a Texas Republican, and Moses Mercado, the former House
Democratic Leader Richard Gephardt’s deputy chief of staff.  Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR)  & Co. hired former Representative
Vic Fazio, a California Democrat, to work with Congress on “tax
issues affecting private-equity firms and their portfolio
companies,” according to lobbying records. The New York-based
private-equity company spent $150,000 in the fourth quarter on
lobbyists from  Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld  to work on issues
that included tax policy.  Bain spent $80,000 during the fourth quarter to hire
lobbyists from Public Strategies Washington Inc. to “monitor
tax reform developments,” lobbying records show. Joseph O’Neill
and Paul Snyder are lobbying for Romney’s former company.  O’Neill was chief of staff to former Senate Finance
Committee Chairman Lloyd Bentsen and helped run the late Texas
Democrat’s 1988 vice presidential bid. Snyder was a legislative
assistant to former House Speaker Tip O’Neill, the late
 Massachusetts  Democrat.  Budget Deficit  Raising taxes on carried interest compensation wouldn’t do
much to narrow the U.S. budget deficit. In its fiscal 2012
budget request, the Obama administration said the proposal to
tax carried interest as ordinary income would generate $14.8
billion over 10 years. In December, the  deficit  stood at almost
$1.3 trillion.  The issue has divided Congress along mostly partisan lines.
The last time the Senate considered a bill that would have
increased taxes on carried interest -- in June 2010 -- every
Republican voted against it, preventing the bill from advancing.
Senator  Ben Nelson  of  Nebraska  was the only Democrat to oppose
the legislation.  Few Defections  The same bill was passed in the House that year with 15
lawmakers in each party voting against their leaders.  As the debate over carried-interest taxation advanced in
Congress, the Private Equity Growth Capital Council was formed
in February 2007 so the industry could make its case more
directly to lawmakers.  The group, whose members include the Carlyle Group LP,
based in Washington, and New York-based Blackstone spent about
$2.5 million that year lobbying Congress on issues that included
measures to tax carried interest at the same rate as ordinary
income. It spent $2.2 million on lobbying in 2011.  “We believe that tax policy should incentivize the kind of
entrepreneurial risk-taking that private-equity firms take every
day,” said Ken  Spain , a spokesman for the Private Equity Growth
Capital Council, a trade group based in Washington. “We remain
vigilant in respect to this issue. Private equity as an asset
class is going to be a topic of discussion throughout 2012.”  Spain is a former communications director for the  National
Republican Congressional Committee .  Comprehensive Overhaul  While the issue will be a central one in the presidential
campaign and on Capitol Hill, the taxation of carried interest
probably won’t change until Congress considers a comprehensive
 tax-code  overhaul. That would be difficult to enact before 2013.  One potential challenge for private equity is something
that otherwise would be seen as a favorable development for the
industry: a Romney administration. Ending the preferential
treatment of capital gains if Romney wins the presidency could
dissolve notions that he is a captive to his former industry,
said  Martin Sullivan , a contributing editor at Tax Analysts, a
nonprofit organization in  Falls Church ,  Virginia .  “It will be much easier to repeal if  Mitt Romney  becomes
president than if Mr. Obama remains president,” he said.  Still, Romney adviser  Eric Fehrnstrom  told reporters last
month that the Republican presidential candidate thinks carried
interest should be taxed at the same rate as a capital gain. The
candidate has proposed eliminating the tax on capital gains for
those with adjusted gross incomes of less than $200,000 a year.  ‘Convoluted’ Code  Private-equity executives also rely on fairness arguments
to make their case. In a Jan. 27 appearance on Bloomberg
Television, Steve Pagliuca, the managing partner of Bain
Capital, said the tax code is “convoluted” and “almost
unintelligible.”  “We’ve got to have a fair tax code,” he said. “We don’t
wake up every day saying ‘Well, what’s the tax code?’ We wake up
trying to build great businesses and we pay all of the taxes
that are necessary.”  Mark Heesen , president of the National  Venture Capital 
Association, an industry trade group based in Arlington,
Virginia, said his industry often reminds lawmakers of its
differences from other investors such as private-equity firms.
Venture capital firms typically invest in early-stage companies
and don’t use as much leverage as private-equity investors do.  Creating Something  “We are able to demonstrate our belief that quintessential
capital gains are all about creating something out of nothing,”
he said. “That’s what venture capital does.”  Heesen said his message to Congress is that it’s important
to maintain the link between carried interest and capital gains,
even if the capital gains tax rate increases. Unless Congress
acts, such gains will be taxed at 20 percent in 2013. High
earners will face an additional 3.8 percent tax on capital gains
and other unearned income as part of the 2010 health-care law.  On the other side of the issue is the AFL-CIO, which has
lobbied in favor of changing how carried interest is taxed, and
is prepared to do so again. Damon Silvers, the policy director
for the labor organization in Washington, called the treatment
of carried interest a “tax subsidy for leveraged buyouts.”  “We are going to be pressing the carried interest issue at
whatever opportunity we get,” he said. “Mitt Romney’s tax
returns are the world’s greatest educational tool about the
impact of the carried-interest loophole.”  The AFL-CIO spent $1.1 million in 2007 to lobby Congress on
issues that included a Senate bill to raise taxes on carried
interest.  Lobbying on the carried-interest debate is only part of the
reason the tax break has survived, said David Donnelly, the
national campaigns director at the Public Campaign Action Fund,
a Washington nonprofit group that tracks political
contributions. Investors who are paid in carried interest are
often the well-heeled donors that members of both parties turn
to for campaign contributions, he said.  “I don’t think it’s simply the lobbying,” Donnelly said.
“The people who are interested in this particular provision are
high net-worth individuals. That’s a constituency that Congress
always cares about when they have to raise money to fund their
campaigns.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  