-- Qantas A380 Jet Grounded After Cracks Found in Wing Parts
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-02-08T07:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/qantas-a380-grounded-after-cracks-found.html
Qantas Airways Ltd.,   Australia ’s
largest carrier, suspended use of one of its  Airbus  SAS A380
passenger jets for as long as a week after discovering cracks in
wing parts.  The aircraft has been grounded since Feb. 5, spokesman
Thomas Woodward said by phone today. The plane, named Charles
Kingsford Smith, has flown between 20 and 30 times since the
cracks were first discovered Jan. 7 in routine checks by the
airline after severe turbulence on a flight from  London  to
 Singapore , he said.  “We will follow Airbus’ instructions on any further action
that may be required,” Woodward said in a separate e-mailed
statement. “We expect the aircraft to be back in service within
a week.”  The grounding comes after  Europe ’s air safety regulator
ordered checks last month of about a third of the global A380
fleet, following reports of cracking in the wing rib feet of
jets flown by Qantas and  Singapore Airlines Ltd . Toulouse,
France-based Airbus said last month that the plane, the world’s
largest commercial aircraft, was safe to fly.  The Charles Kingsford Smith, one of 12 in the Qantas fleet,
was grounded after Airbus requested additional checks last week
based on data sent by the Sydney-based airline following an
initial inspection, Woodward said.  The grounding was reported earlier today by the Sydney
Morning Herald newspaper  Wing cracks  The 36 small fissures detected on the plane were different
from the so-called “type two” cracks that sparked the European
regulator’s order, but similar to cracking traced to
manufacturing defects previously detected in a separate Qantas
A380, the Nancy Bird Walton, Woodward said.  Both types of cracks affect the aircraft’s wing rib feet,
4,000 of which are used to attach the wing’s reinforcing ribs to
its outer skin. All A380s currently in service will ultimately
need checks and possible repairs, Airbus has said.  Nicholas Ionides , a spokesman for Singapore Airlines, said
by telephone that all eight of the carrier’s 15 aircraft checked
so far had needed repairs.  Qantas  rose  0.6 percent to A$1.63 at the close of Sydney
trading, compared with a 0.4 percent gain by the benchmark
 S&P/ASX 200  index. Qantas shares have lost a third of their
value over the last 12 months.  The directive issued by the European Aviation Safety Agency
on Jan. 20 required all planes that had flown more than 1,800
trips to be checked within four days for the “type two”
cracks.  “This condition, if not detected and corrected, could
potentially affect the structural integrity of the airplane,”
the safety organization said in the order.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  