-- Qatar’s Shares Retreat on Speculation Nine-Day Rally Overdone
-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r
-- 2012-02-07T12:39:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/qatar-s-shares-retreat-on-speculation-nine-day-rally-overdone.html
Qatari shares retreated for the first
time in 10 days on speculation recent gains were overdone given
earnings and lower dividends at the Persian Gulf nation’s banks.  Commercial Bank of Qatar (CBQK) , the country’s second-biggest
lender, dropped the most in almost a week.  Qatar National Bank
SAQ (QNBK) , the country’s largest bank by assets, fell 1 percent. The
 QE Index  decreased 0.5 percent, the most since Jan. 19, to
8,687.38 at the 1 p.m. close in Doha. The gauge advanced 4.1
percent in the nine days through yesterday. The  Bloomberg GCC
200 Index  fell 0.1 percent.  “Qatar retreated slightly today after a good set of
positive sessions,” said Samer Darwiche, a Dubai-based analyst
at Gulfmena Investments. “With a lack of news, investors are
profit-taking to protect gains. Investors are also waiting for
 Industries Qatar QSC (IQCD)  earnings after banks announced results.”  Commercial Bank last month posted a  fourth-quarter profit 
that missed analysts’ estimates and said it planned to pay a
lower dividend. Investors were also disappointed with dividends
at Qatar National Bank and  Qatar International Islamic Bank ,
even after 2011 profit at both companies increased.  Qatar’s  Exchange Banking Sector Index  has a dividend yield
of 4.24. That compares with 2.98 for  Saudi Arabia ’s  listed banks 
and 2.85 for  Abu Dhabi ’s  ADX Banks Index .  Arabtec Soars  Commercial Bank of Qatar  dropped 0.6 percent to 81.8
riyals. Qatar National Bank dropped the most since Jan. 10 to
134.7 riyals.  Industries Qatar, the  Middle East ’s second-biggest
petrochemicals company, was little changed. The company may on
March 1 report a  38 percent increase  in fourth-quarter profit to
2.07 billion riyals ($568 million), according to the mean
estimate of five analysts on Bloomberg.  In Dubai, construction company  Arabtec Holding Co . surged
for a seventh day, rallying as much as 11 percent to 2.88
dirhams before closing at 2.7 dirhams, the highest since October
2009. Arabtec was the  most traded  stock on Dubai’s index today,
with the volume of shares traded soaring to the highest since
March.  “It would be quite improbable for Arabtec to be trading
the volumes it is trading, and exhibiting the price behavior it
has exhibited for several weeks now without anything of
strategic importance being the catalyst,” said Dubai-based
Ibrahim Masood, who helps manage about $400 million at
 Mashreqbank PSC . “There could be some big news on the business
side, new business, or fund flows on existing contracts. It
could also be something less likely in terms of shareholding
change -- that’s a lower probability event.”  Dubai’s  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  and  Kuwait ’s  gauge  fell 0.2
percent. Abu Dhabi’s  ADX General Index  retreated 0.3 percent.
Bahrain’s  BB All Share Index  fell 0.1 percent, while Saudi
Arabia’s  Tadawul All Share Index  rose less than 0.1 percent.
Oman’s  MSM 30 Index  advanced 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  