-- Quantum Energy Forms Renaissance to Acquire U.S. Offshore Oil
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-02-07T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/quantum-energy-forms-renaissance-to-acquire-u-s-offshore-oil.html
Quantum Energy Partners, the $6.5
billion Houston-based private-equity firm, is bankrolling a
company to acquire offshore U.S. oil fields as rival explorers
shift attention to shale and other so-called unconventional
prospects.  Quantum’s Renaissance Offshore will have $300 million to
start and will be led by Jeffrey Soine, the former executive
vice president of international business at Australian oil
producer  Woodside Petroleum Ltd ., Dheeraj Verma, a managing
director at Quantum, said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Renaissance made its first acquisition on Dec. 30, buying
 Chevron Corp .’s Ship Shoal 266 field, Verma said. The field
produces primarily oil and is located about 75 miles (121
kilometers) off the Louisiana coast in 180 feet (55 meters) of
water, he said. Ship Shoal 266 was the first U.S. well to tap
crude trapped below the salt layer beneath the Gulf floor,
Offshore Magazine said in a 1999 article.  Energy producers such as Chevron and  Exxon Mobil Corp . have
been selling assets in the Gulf to drill unconventional oil and
natural-gas prospects in  Pennsylvania ,  Ohio ,  Texas , Oklahoma and
 North Dakota . Renaissance, based in Houston, plans to increase
production from Ship Shoal 266 and make other shallow-water
acquisitions in the Gulf, Verma said.  “There are a lot of assets for sale in the Gulf, partly
because companies are facing massive  capital requirements  to
fund their shale programs,” Wil VanLoh, co-founder of Quantum,
said during a telephone interview yesterday.  Post-Macondo Prices  Offshore asset prices have declined during the past year as
tougher drilling rules imposed after the fatal 2010 disaster at
 BP Plc ’s Macondo well prompted explorers to shrink their
investments in the region, VanLoh said.  Gas prices  that tumbled to a 10-year low last month also
have driven asset sales by energy producers in need of cash to
fulfill drilling obligations in onshore shale leases, he said.  Newfield Exploration Co. said yesterday it will halt
exploratory drilling in the Gulf and may seek a buyer for those
“non-strategic” assets.  Investors punished a move into the shallow waters of the
Gulf last week by  SandRidge Energy Inc ., the  Oklahoma  City-based
energy producer founded by Tom Ward.  SandRidge lost as much as 14 percent of its market value on
Feb. 2, the day after announcing the $1.28 billion acquisition
of Dynamic Offshore Resources LLC, which operates wells in the
shallow coastal waters of the Gulf.  ‘Oily’ Focus  Ward’s Dynamic deal was panned by analysts such as David Heikkinen of Tudor Pickering Holt & Co. because it will expose
SandRidge to hurricane risks and increase its gas output amid a
supply glut that has depressed prices.  Verma said Renaissance is different because its focus will
remain on “oily” Gulf properties. Many of the assets being
offered for sale by major energy companies produce mostly gas
and are money losers at current commodity prices, he said.  Since its founding in 1998, Quantum’s startups have
included Titan Exploration, later named Pure Resources and sold
to Unocal Corp. for $1.6 billion, and Celero Energy Partners,
which was sold to  Whiting Petroleum Corp . in 2005 for $800
million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  