-- Rajaratnam Judge Known For Secrecy Announces Departure in a Press Release
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/rajaratnam-judge-announces-departure-from-bench.html
The judge who sentenced Raj Rajaratnam to 11 years in prison for  insider trading  after a
trial in which he often closed proceedings and sealed files used
a public relations firm to announce his resignation.  Richard Holwell, 65, revealed his departure yesterday in a
press release advertising the creation of his new  Manhattan  law
firm, Holwell Shuster & Goldberg. The announcement was
circulated by Hellerman Baretz Communications LLC.  In response to a question last week on reports he planned
to leave the judiciary, Holwell said he told a spokeswoman for
the U.S. District Court in Manhattan that it’s not his practice
“to talk about my future plans.”  “I gave the chief judge a heads-up a week or two ago,”
Holwell said yesterday in an interview, referring to U.S.
District Judge  Loretta Preska . “I didn’t think it was
appropriate to ask the court to issue a press release,” Holwell
said. “I thought I should be the guy to do it.”  Mary Beth Pratt, a Philadelphia-based law firm consultant,
said a judge issuing his own press release is an unusual move
that is nevertheless within the bounds of ethics rules.  “It’s standard operating procedure for lawyers today,”
Pratt said in an interview. “What makes this different is that
he’s a judge on such a major case setting up his own shop.”  The announcement comes a day after Holwell published his
last ruling in the Rajaratnam case, a 39-page opinion giving the
reasons for how he calculated the applicable federal sentencing
guidelines. The hedge fund manager’s sentence was the longest in
U.S. history for insider trading.  Finish the Ruling  Holwell said he wanted to finish that ruling before leaving
the bench, along with a decision in a securities case against
 Vivendi SA (VIV)  and another denying a request to block toll increases
on New York-area bridges and tunnels. His new firm opened
yesterday, according to the press release.  During the Rajaratnam trial, Holwell sealed at least 38
documents filed with the court. He also held secret hearings
about matters including Rajaratnam’s emergency foot surgery,
which caused the defendant to miss part of the jury
deliberations. He declined a request to be interviewed before
the trial began.  Prosecutors argued that the public had a First Amendment
right to see papers he had sealed about the Galleon Group LLC
co-founder’s medical condition. Rajaratnam, who has diabetes,
cited his health in arguing for leniency in sentencing. Holwell
later unsealed some of the material.  Notable Matters  A section of the press release announcing his departure
from the bench listed notable matters handled by the lawyers
forming Holwell Shuster. It put the Rajaratnam case at the top.  Holwell spent more than 30 years as an attorney with  White
& Case LLP (1116L)  in Manhattan before President  George W. Bush 
appointed him to the federal bench in 2003. The New York-based
law firm also refused to comment about him before the Rajaratnam
trial.  Holwell’s new firm includes Michael Shuster and Daniel
Goldberg, lawyers he practiced with at  White & Case . Holwell
Shuster & Goldberg plans to represent clients in complex
commercial, securities, antitrust and bankruptcy litigation,
according to the press release.  “When you get out of law school you think, gosh, I’d like
to form my own firm,” Holwell said. “I hope this will be a
good third career.”  On the same day Holwell announced his departure,  Weil,
Gotshal & Manges LLP  said that another figure from the
Rajaratnam case, Christopher Garcia, will join the firm as a
partner. As chief of the Securities and Commodities Fraud Task
Force in the Manhattan U.S. Attorney’s office, Garcia supervised
the prosecution of Rajaratnam and others charged in the
government’s investigation of insider trading at  hedge funds .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York federal court at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  