-- Raytheon Executive Fined Over Affair Letter in $1 Billion Contract Lawsuit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-08T00:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/raytheon-executive-fined-over-affair-letter-in-1-billion-contract-lawsuit.html
A  Raytheon Co.  executive was fined by
a  Washington  court for failing to give opponents in a lawsuit a
reprimand letter stemming from an affair with a subordinate
while both worked at the  Federal Aviation Administration .  Charles E. Keegan, leader of Raytheon’s Civil Aviation
Solutions division, violated a court order to turn over the
document showing he had an improper romantic relationship with
the woman to the Washington Consulting Group Inc., Judge A.
Franklin Burgess Jr. of the District of Columbia Superior Court
ruled yesterday.  For the past two years, Washington Consulting Group, or
WCG, has argued that the relationship began at the FAA, and
continued after Keegan left for Raytheon and Maureen Knopes, now
Keegan’s wife, became responsible for a contracting program to
train air traffic controllers. WCG had held the contract for
more than 20 years until Raytheon won it in 2008.  The Bethesda, Maryland-based company is seeking $1 billion
in damages from Raytheon and Keegan, claiming the relationship
contaminated the bidding process on the 10-year contract. Keegan
and his wife, now Knopes-Keegan, conspired with others to
reconfigure the FAA’s contracting program and stole  WCG ’s trade
secrets to ensure Raytheon would take the business, the lawsuit
claims.  ‘Conflicting Evidence’  “Though it is faced with conflicting evidence as to
whether Keegan’s failure to produce the reprimand letter was
inadvertent or intentional, the court reaches the same
conclusion in either case,” the judge said, ordering Keegan to
pay a portion of legal fees to opposing counsel.  The couple’s romance was investigated by the Transportation
Department’s inspector general. In 2004, a top FAA official
reprimanded Keegan in a letter for having an “inappropriate
relationship” that created a “perception of favoritism” and
the appearance of “giving preferential treatment” to Knopes-
Keegan, according to the judge’s ruling.  The letter wasn’t disclosed to WCG until Keegan was being
interviewed in the case in December. Keegan said in court
filings that the document was found in a box in his basement
that contained work papers along with a weather dial and a
runner’s bib.  “These rulings are unrelated to the merits of the case,”
Jon Kasle, a spokesman for Waltham, Massachusetts-based
Raytheon, said in an e-mail. “Raytheon continues to maintain
that WCG’s suit is without merit,” he said, adding that the
company is reviewing the rulings and will defend itself and
Keegan.  ‘Public Scrutiny’  Steven Thomas, a lawyer for WCG, said in an e-mail the
ruling means Raytheon “now must face public scrutiny of its
misconduct.”  Raytheon has twice lost bids to have the case dismissed.
Last year a judge in the U.S. District Court in Washington
ordered the case transferred back to Superior Court. Judge
Burgess in November ruled that WCG had presented enough specific
allegations to allow the lawsuit to proceed.  Since the mid-1980s, WCG and the University of  Oklahoma 
were awarded contracts to train air traffic controllers,
according to the complaint. Controllers who were hired by the
FAA would attend two to four months of training in  Oklahoma City 
before moving on to a program run by WCG that lasted two to five
years.  Single Contract  In 2006, the FAA in said it was creating a single contract
and looking for a company that would recruit, hire, and train
controllers. The company would be required to pay the trainees
for as long as three years before the FAA would hire them,
according to WCG’s complaint.  Knopes-Keegan was the FAA official in charge of the
initiative and became the agency’s “public face” for the new
program to contractors, according to the lawsuit.  WCG alleges the proposed contracting change was “a ruse”
by Raytheon,  Keegan , and Knopes-Keegan to make certain that WCG
couldn’t bid.  Since WCG didn’t have the resources to compete directly for
the new contract, it sought to remain a participant as a
subcontractor to Bethesda-based  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) , according
to court records.  Once WCG was “locked in” as subcontractor, the FAA said
in August 2007 that it was dropping the hiring requirement of
the initiative and would merely combine the two earlier
contracts into one. At that point, WCG said it was too late for
the company to enter a bid as a prime contractor for business,
according to its lawsuit.  Trade Secrets  WCG alleges Knopes-Keegan, who left the FAA in 2007, gave
Keegan company trade secrets that were contained in WCG’s
earlier bids. Keegan then used the information for Raytheon’s
bid, according to the complaint.  That data, which WCG describes as an “accurate roadmap”
for the bid it was presenting with Lockheed, included line-item
pricing of subcontractors, instructors, and other vendors as
well as staffing plans for the more than 50 facilities where it
conducted controller training.  The case is Washington Consulting Group Inc. v. Raytheon
Technical Services Co. LLC, 10-00296, Superior Court of the
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 