-- Raytheon Fights Ex-Partner CSC as Air Force Pares Contracts
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-02-07T14:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/raytheon-fights-ex-partner-csc-as-air-force-pares-contracts.html
Exelis Inc.,  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) 
and  Raytheon Co. (RTN)  risk losing $3 billion in rocket-launch revenue
during the next decade as the U.S.  Air Force  consolidates
contracts to reduce costs.  The Air Force plans to save at least 5 percent by
eliminating redundancies in three maintenance and engineering
contracts, Christina Sukach, a spokeswoman for the Air Force
Space Command, said in an e-mail.  Exelis may have the most at stake. The company has received
$1.4 billion under its contract since 2001, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Government.  Boeing Co. (BA) ,  Lockheed Martin
Corp. (LMT)  and Bechtel Corp. plan to challenge Exelis and the other
incumbents for the work, according to a notice the Air Force
posted online Jan. 20.  “The Air Force is desperately looking for anywhere that it
can get creative and cut, and it knows that it can’t do very
much on the systems side,” or the rockets and satellites
themselves, Marco Caceres, a senior space analyst at the defense
research firm Teal Group of Fairfax,  Virginia , said in a phone
interview.  The Air Force awarded $319 million in the year ended Sept.
30 under the contracts that will be combined, according to
federal procurement data compiled by Bloomberg. Exelis received
the most, with $146 million, followed by a joint venture of CSC
and Raytheon, with $92 million, and closely held InDyne Inc.,
with $81 million.  Duplicate Contracts  The consolidation follows a Sept. 29 order from Dan Gordon,
then the Obama administration’s top procurement official, to
avoid overlapping and duplicate contracts.  Exelis (XLS) , based in McLean, Virginia, has a partnership with
London-based  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and New York-based  L-3
Communications Holdings Inc. (LLL)  to bid on the new contract. Exelis
was spun off from ITT Corp. in October.  “We see this consolidation as a chance to expand our
business with the Air Force,” Pat Carr, Exelis’ vice president
of information systems, said in an e-mail.  CSC, based in Falls Church, Virginia, will end its joint
venture with Raytheon and has formed one with  Honeywell
International Inc. (HON)  of Morris Township,  New Jersey , to pursue the
consolidated contract.  CSC and Raytheon, based in Waltham, Massachusetts, have
provided launch services at Patrick Air Force Base near
Satellite Beach, Florida, since 1988. The joint venture received
$356 million in orders since 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Expansion Opportunity  The combined contract provides CSC with an opportunity to
expand, Michael Maier, vice president of the company’s Air Force
range programs, said in an e-mail statement. It is “one of the
largest range technical services contracts across the entire
Department of Defense,” he said.  Amy Smith, vice president of communications for Raytheon’s
technical services unit, confirmed that the company planned to
bid on the new contract.  “We are pursuing this and are excited to bring Raytheon’s
capabilities to the table in this next chapter for the Air
Force,” she said today in a phone interview.  InDyne, based in Reston, Virginia, has received $287
million since 2008 for launch work at Vandenberg Air Force Base
near Lompoc,  California . The company is pursuing the contract
with partners Lockheed Martin of Bethesda, Maryland, and  URS
Corp. (URS)  of  San Francisco . Exelis’s existing contract is for
services at both the Patrick and Vandenberg bases.  Eight Bids  The contractors oversee missile and rocket launches at the
bases and operate command and control systems. There were 11
launches from each range in fiscal 2011, the Air Force’s Sukach
said. This year, 15 launches are planned at the Florida range
and nine at the California range.  Proposals probably will be due in May, with an award likely
in November, Sukach said. The service expects as many as eight
bids for the work under the Launch and Integrated Support
Contract, or LISC, she said.  Combining contracts is a common way of reducing duplicative
work and saving money, said Scott Pace, a director of the Space
Policy Institute at George  Washington  University in Washington.  There are large economies of scale in the business of
operating launch facilities and “only a few sources of customer
demand,” Pace said in an e-mail. That is why it makes sense for
the government to combine the contracts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  