-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Advance to a One-Week High on Greek Debt Progress
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-07T16:56:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/treasuries-snap-advance-on-concern-auctions-this-week-to-drive-up-yields.html
Treasury 10-year yields reached a
one-week high after reports that Greek officials are closer to a
deal to receive international funding, crimping haven demand.  U.S. debt  also  declined  as Treasury prepared to sell $32
billion in three-year notes, the first of three auctions this
week totaling $72 billion. The extra yield between 10-year notes
and inflation-linked securities of the same maturity, a gauge of
trader expectations for consumer price increases, was the
 highest  since October.  “Maybe things are getting slightly better in  Europe ,”
said  Ray Remy , head of fixed income in New York at Daiwa  Capital
Markets  Americas Inc., one of 21 primary dealers obligated to
bid in U.S. debt auctions. “Rates started to move slightly
higher.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.97 percent at 11:51 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices, the highest since
Jan. 27. The 2 percent securities maturing in November 2021 fell
17/32, or $5.31 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 12/32.  The three-year notes scheduled for sale today yielded 0.33
percent in pre-auction trading, compared with 0.37 percent at
the previous offer of the maturity Jan. 10.  Inflation Measure  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt known as the
break-even rate, was 2.23 percentage points, the most since Oct.
28. The average during the past decade is 2.14 percentage
points.  “The Treasury market is trading lower this morning ahead
as investors position themselves ahead of the latest wave of new
issue supply ,” said  Kevin Giddis , president of fixed-income
capital markets at the brokerage firm Morgan Keegan Inc. in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee . Today’s auction “could provide a glimpse of
investor demand for dollar-denominated assets before tomorrow’s
$24 billion auction of the 10-year and Thursday’s $16 billion of
the 30-year.”  Volatility in the Treasury market is near an eight-month
low. Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s  MOVE index , which measures
price swings based on options, closed yesterday at 72.3, at
almost the lowest since July 2007 and less than the five-year
average of 111.8.  Trading Levels  Treasury market volume dropped yesterday to the lowest
since Jan. 9. About $176 billion of Treasuries changed hands
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker, below
the one-year average of $277 billion.  Treasuries have lost 0.1 percent in 2012 as of Feb. 6,
versus a gain of 9.8 percent last year, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch indexes.  The U.S. plans to sell $24 billion of 10-year debt tomorrow
and $16 billion of 30-year bonds on Feb. 9. This week’s auctions
will raise $22.4 billion of new cash as maturing securities held
by the public total $49.6 billion.  The amount of marketable securities outstanding  rose  to
$10.07 trillion as of Jan. 31, up from $9.94 trillion at the end
of last year.  “The market is coming off in anticipation of this week’s
refunding auctions,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond
strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .
“Demand at today’s auction will be driven by ongoing
uncertainty surrounding the pace of the global expansion and a
persistent flight to quality versus global risk assets.”  Greek Debt  Greek officials are working on the final draft of the
document listing the budget and structural measures required to
receive international funding, a government official said.  The official, who declined to be named, said the document
would be discussed by political party leaders supporting the
government of interim Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  at a
meeting later in the day. The official spoke to reporters in
 Athens .  U.S. government bonds tumbled on Feb. 3, pushing yields up
10 basis points, after the Labor Department said employers added
243,000 jobs in January. The median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg News survey was 140,000. The jobless rate fell to 8.3
percent, the least in three years.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  repeated today
that the job market is still far from healthy after signs of
economic improvement over the past year, and he called on
lawmakers to reduce the long-term  budget deficit .  Labor Path  “We still have a long way to go before the labor market
can be said to be operating normally,” Bernanke said in
testimony prepared for the Senate Budget Committee that is
identical to remarks he gave on Feb. 2 to the House Budget
panel.  Bernanke said after a two-day policy meeting Jan. 24-25
that the central bank is considering additional asset purchases
to boost growth after extending its pledge to keep  interest
rates  low through at least late 2014.  The central bank sold $1.3 billion of Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities, or TIPS, maturing from July 2012 to
January 2015 today under a program known as ‘Operation Twist,’
according to the  New York  Fed’s  website .  The Fed is  replacing  $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program it plans to
conclude in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  