-- Republicans Demand Accounting Change of Fannie Mae Bailout Costs
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-02-07T22:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/republicans-demand-accounting-change-of-fannie-mae-bailout-costs.html
The U.S. House of Representatives
voted to require the Obama administration to more fully
incorporate Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  into its annual budget.  The chamber today  voted  245-180 to require the federal
government to use an accounting method that would recognize more
of the costs of its 2008 takeover of the mortgage companies.  Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey Republican, said
the method would more accurately represent the costs to
taxpayers.  “If we truly are committed to balancing the budget and
paying down our debt, we need to fully disclose all of our
existing liabilities,” Garrett said.  That accounting method already is used by the  Congressional
Budget Office .  Democrats opposed the measure, mostly because of other
provisions they said would inflate the projected costs of a
number of federal credit programs. Seven Democrats voted for the
bill; two Republicans opposed it.  Chances in Senate  The measure now heads to the Senate, where it is unlikely
to win passage.  The measure would require the administration to calculate
the net lifetime cost of loans and loan guarantees made by
 Fannie Mae  and Freddie Mac, taking into account likely income
and projected losses. The administration counts only the cash
injections periodically needed by the agencies.  The legislation stops short of integrating Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac into the federal budget, which would mean counting
the debt they’ve issued to hold loans or guarantee $5 trillion
in mortgages against the government’s debt limit. That would
have required Congress to lift the legal cap on borrowing.  The bill is H.R. 3581.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  