-- Reserve Bank of Australia Comments on Rate Decision (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 7 0 8 4 5 8 ]   V i c t o r i a   B a t c h e l o r   [ ]
-- 2012-02-07T03:37:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/reserve-bank-of-australia-comments-on-rate-decision-text-.html
Following is the  text  of a statement
by  Reserve Bank  of Australia Governor Glenn Stevens explaining
the interest-rate decision today:  At its meeting today, the Board decided to leave the cash
rate unchanged at 4.25 per cent.  Information becoming available since the December meeting
confirms that economic conditions in  Europe  were weakening late
last year, with risks still skewed to the downside. Reflecting
this, most forecasters have lowered their forecasts for world
GDP growth this year to a below trend pace. That said, recent
data from the  United States  suggest a continuing moderate
expansion after a soft patch in mid 2011. Growth in  China  has
moderated as was intended, but on most indicators remained quite
robust through the second half of last year. Conditions around
other parts of  Asia  have softened. Commodity prices declined for
some months to be noticeably off their peaks, but over the past
couple of months have risen somewhat and remain at quite high
levels.  The acute financial pressures on banks in Europe were
alleviated considerably late in 2011 by the actions of
policymakers. Much remains to be done to put European sovereigns
and banks on a sound footing, but some progress has been made.
Financial  market sentiment , though remaining skittish, has
generally improved since early December. Share markets have
risen and term funding markets have re-opened, including for
Australian banks, albeit at increased cost compared with the
situation prevailing in mid 2011.  Information on the Australian economy continues to suggest
growth close to trend, with differences between sectors. Labour
market conditions softened during 2011 and the  unemployment rate 
increased slightly in mid year, though it has been steady over
recent months. CPI inflation has declined as expected, as the
large rises in food prices resulting from the floods a year ago
have been unwinding. Year-ended CPI inflation will fall further
over the next quarter or two. In underlying terms, inflation is
around 2.5 per cent. Over the coming one to two years, and
abstracting from the effects of the carbon price, the Bank
expects inflation to be in the 2-3 per cent range.  Credit growth remains modest, though there has been a
slight increase in demand for credit by businesses. Housing
prices showed some sign of stabilising at the end of 2011, after
having declined for most of the year. The  exchange rate  has
risen further, even though the terms of trade have started to
decline. This is largely a reflection of a decline in the euro
against all currencies. Nonetheless, the Australian dollar in
trade-weighted terms is somewhat higher than the Bank had
previously assumed.  At today’s meeting, the Board noted that  interest rates  for
borrowers have declined to be close to their medium-term average,
as a result of the actions at the Board’s previous two meetings.
With growth expected to be close to trend and inflation close to
target, the Board judged that the setting of monetary policy was
appropriate for the moment. Should demand conditions weaken
materially, the inflation outlook would provide scope for easier
monetary policy. The Board will continue to monitor information
on economic and financial conditions and adjust the cash rate as
necessary to foster sustainable growth and low inflation. 