-- Richter Sees 2012 Sales Stagnating in Euros, Bogsch Says
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-02-07T10:22:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/richter-sees-2012-sales-stagnating-in-euros-bogsch-says-1-.html
Gedeon Richter Nyrt .,  Hungary ’s
largest drugmaker, sees 2012 sales stagnating in euro terms as a
decline in domestic sales and exports to the  United States  will
outweigh increasing revenue in  Russia  and Ukraine.  “We have an outstandingly successful year behind us with
record sales in Russia, therefore we’re a bit more cautious with
regards to this year,” Chief Executive Officer Erik Bogsch said
at a press conference in Budapest today.  Net income  rose 26 percent to 8.9 billion forint ($40
million) in the last quarter of 2011 as revenue jumped 53
percent to 91.1 billion forint, fueled by strong exports to
former Soviet states and the European Union, the company said
earlier today.  Richter, central and eastern  Europe ’s largest maker of
gynecological products, faces higher marketing and sales costs
as a result of recent acquisitions and the development of a
sales network in western Europe. Spending on research and
development is also set to increase in 2012 as the company will
probably have to pay a “very significant” milestone payment
for the licensing of its Esmya product, Bogsch said.  “We may receive a much smaller milestone payment toward
the end of the year, however the difference between what we have
to pay and what we may receive is very significant,” Bogsch
said.  Exports  Exports  to Russia, which account for 29 percent of the
company’s revenue, are seen rising by as much as 5 percent in
dollar terms after a 28 percent jump in 2011. Ukrainian and
western European exports may grow by 5 percent, respectively.  Domestic sales calculated in forint are set to drop between
15 percent and 20 percent while sales in the U.S. will probably
plummet by 40 percent in dollar terms, Bogsch said.  The company’s tax payment in Hungary will increase by 2.5
billion forint, compared to last year, as a result of new taxes
and the expiration of a corporate tax break.  The licensing of Esmya, developed for the treatment of
myomas, may take place by March, allowing the start of sales in
 Germany  and the  United Kingdom  in April, Bogsch said. The
company is awaiting the results of Phase III clinical trials for
cariprazine, used for treating schizophrenia and bipolar
disorder. Positive results may mean the sale of the drug will
start in the U.S. in early 2014, Bogsch said.  The company’s operating profit may be 15 percent to 16
percent of sales in 2012, according to Bogsch.  Richter shares declined 1.2 percent to 38,890 forint at
11:16 a.m. in Budapest, falling for the first time in four days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  