-- Right-to-Work Laws Won’t Bring Back Manufacturing: Ron Klain
-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 2012-02-07T00:01:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/right-to-work-laws-won-t-bring-back-manufacturing-commentary-by-ron-klain.html
For most policy problems, there is
usually a simple answer and a correct answer; they are rarely
the same thing. That dilemma is evident in the debate about what
the U.S. can do to boost its manufacturing sector.  One side was staked out by President Barack Obama in his
State of the Union address. Building on the success of his
rescue of the  auto industry , the president set forth a
multipronged approach toward a broader reinvigoration of
manufacturing.  His proposal includes closing tax loopholes that subsidize
companies that ship manufacturing jobs overseas and investing
the savings in incentives to bring plants back home. Obama also
called for doubling the  tax deductions  that high-tech
manufacturers get for making products in the U.S., additional
incentives for putting factories in hard-hit areas, and further
tax disincentives for foreign operations.  The president also outlined an agenda for expanding trade
in U.S. manufactured goods, cracking down on foreign
manufacturers that don’t compete fairly, and implementing
 country-specific trade measures . In addition, he called for
expanded programs to train workers in the skills they need to be
qualified for new jobs in advanced manufacturing.  A sophisticated, smart plan to help our  manufacturing
sector ? Absolutely. A bit complex and abstract? Perhaps. A
message that fits on a bumper sticker? Unfortunately not.  Republican Approach  The opposite approach is embodied by the Republican who
delivered that party’s response to Obama’s speech, Indiana
Governor  Mitch Daniels . His single-minded and simple
“manufacturing plan” wasn’t a feature of his response -- a
doom-and-gloom affair that offered little in the way of true
alternatives -- but rather was contained in Daniels’ decision to
sign a right-to-work law in the days that followed the speech.  Daniels said that  Indiana  needed “a right-to-work law to
capture jobs for which, despite our highly rated business
climate, we are not currently being considered.”  There are two problems with right-to-work laws as simple
solutions for our manufacturing woes: They aren’t right and they
don’t work.  Such laws aren’t right because they entitle a worker to all
the benefits of a union-negotiated contract without paying any
dues. In other words, they grant a free ride, aimed at
undermining the desire of anyone to pay their fair share.
Regardless of how you feel about unions, the unfairness of this
legislation should offend you.  Here’s a metaphor: Imagine you own a home in an exclusive
community that provides a golf course, a clubhouse and other
fine amenities. Now, the legislature passes a “Right to Home
Freedom” law, which allows residents to enjoy all these great
facilities and services, but gives them the “freedom” from
being “coerced” into paying homeowner association dues.  Should your neighbor be able to use the golf, pool and
tennis facilities without paying a fair share? If free riders
were allowed, would anyone continue to pay? Would the services
continue to be available?  That’s the situation right-to-work
creates for the workplace, except that instead of golf, pool and
tennis, you can substitute fair wages, health-care coverage and
safe working conditions.  Moreover, as a way to  spur manufacturing , it won’t work.
The last state before  Indiana  to adopt a similar measure was
 Oklahoma , 10 years ago. At the time it passed, advocates
promised that it would result in a surge of manufacturing jobs
coming to the state. But in the decade that has followed,
industrial exits from Oklahoma have increased 30 percent,
manufacturing employment in the state is down by a third, and
the  unemployment rate  is higher today than it was on the day the
law was passed.  High-Tech Jobs  Where has manufacturing growth occurred in recent years?
Most of the growth, especially in  high-tech manufacturing , has
been in states with high education achievement and productive,
well-paid workforces. Of course, one sector adding high-tech
manufacturing jobs is the auto industry, thanks mostly to the
policies that Obama advanced, and former Massachusetts Governor
 Mitt Romney , the Republican presidential front-runner, opposed.  It’s no surprise that wage-reducing policies aren’t a
catch-all solution for manufacturing job growth. Employers who
are choosing sites for their plants solely based on where wages
are lowest and working conditions cheapest will hop-skip-jump
over right-to-work states and go straight to Mexico and  Asia ,
where the cost savings are greatest. Recent coverage of
manufacturing conditions in  China , for example, makes clear that
the U.S. can’t -- and doesn’t want to -- compete for the kinds
of jobs that manufacturers fill solely on the basis of finding
the cheapest workers.  It’s important to avoid overpromising or excessive
nostalgia. Many low-skill manufacturing jobs are lost to foreign
soil, and will never come back. The number of new, high-skill,
high-tech manufacturing jobs that can be created in the U.S.
will be far lower than those provided by factories a generation
ago. Consider that refurbished auto assembly lines that once
employed thousands now employ hundreds, due to more use of
robots and mechanized assembly techniques.  Yet, with those caveats, there is hope for a renaissance of
American manufacturing in the decade ahead. As  Clint Eastwood 
said in his Super Bowl ad for Chrysler Group LLC: “This country
can’t be knocked out with one punch. We get right back up again,
and when we do, the world’s going to hear the roar of our
engines.”  It will probably take all of the tax, trade and training
measures the president has proposed -- and more -- to get us
“back up again.” No simple answer, no single answer will do the
trick.  If we make the right policy choices -- not the simple ones
-- there is a future for American manufacturing that will
preserve our heritage as a nation that makes things and will
provide a great livelihood for millions of families, coast-to-
coast.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and a senior adviser to President  Barack Obama  on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 