-- Romanian Central Bank Raises 2012 Inflation Forecast to 3.2%
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u   a n d   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-02-07T12:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/romanian-central-bank-raises-2012-inflation-forecast-to-3-2-2-.html
Romania ’s central bank raised its
2012 inflation forecast and pledged to act against currency
volatility stemming from the resignation of the government.  The bank sees consumer-price growth at 3.2 percent, still
within its target range, compared with a November forecast of 3
percent, Governor Mugur Isarescu said in a news conference in
Bucharest today. The inflation rate will drop to 3 percent in
2013, he said.  “Weak domestic demand enables us to forecast that the
inflation rate will remain well within the target band, but the
very good harvest from last year will have a less favorable
impact on inflation this year if it’s a normal agricultural
year,” Isarescu said.  The Bucharest-based Banca Nationala a Romaniei cut its
 benchmark interest rate  for a third meeting by a quarter-point
to a record-low 5.5 percent on Feb. 2 to support an economic
recovery amid Europe’s debt crisis and slowing inflation. Rates
are being lowered “in small steps to keep from harming the
equilibrium.”  Target Met  The leu dropped 0.1 percent to 4.3490 per euro as of 1:44
p.m. in Bucharest. The Romanian currency has lost 0.5 percent
against the euro so far this year, compared with gains of 7.2
percent for the Hungarian forint, 6.6 percent for  Poland ’s zloty
and 2.2 percent for the Czech koruna in the same period.  The bank met its inflation target for the first time in
five years in 2011 with the rate falling to a record low of 3.14
percent in December. The target range for this year is the same
as last year at between 2 percent and 4 percent.  Prime Minister Emil Boc resigned yesterday, one day after
an International Monetary Fund mission ended a review of the
country’s bailout loan program, following public wage cuts and
tax increases prompted countrywide and sometimes violent
protests. President Traian Basescu nominated Mihai-Razvan Ungureanu to form a government and get approval from lawmakers.  “Any major political change is a stress factor for the
markets and these factors must be managed,” Isarescu said. “We
don’t see now visible elements of stress in the markets.”  Asked whether the central bank will take measures to
prevent volatility, Isarescu answered “of course.”  Deregulation Deadlines  Boc’s government negotiated new deregulation deadlines for
household electricity prices until 2017 from the previous 2015
during a two-week program review by the IMF and the European
Union, which ended Feb. 5. The government had planned to start
negotiating new deadlines for natural-gas price liberalization
in April.  “At this stage, we see a reduced impact on the inflation
rate stemming from administered price increases, but we might
still see price changes when the government resumes talks in
April,” Isarescu said.  The central bank can’t reduce minimum  reserve requirements 
on foreign-exchange and leu deposits as “some banks have
excessive liquidity,” Isarescu said. The bank left the
requirements unchanged at 20 percent for foreign-exchange
deposits and 15 percent for leu deposits.  The country secured a 5 billion-euro ($6.6 billion)
precautionary accord from the IMF and the EU to reassure
investors it will keep a fiscal discipline ahead of local and
general elections this year. It doesn’t plan to draw on the
money set aside by the lenders.  The ruling coalition pledged to lower the  budget deficit  to
1.9 percent of gross domestic product this year from 4.4 percent
in 2011 to avoid possible financing issues stemming from
market turmoil.  The international lenders lowered Romania’s economic-growth
forecast for this year to between 1.5 percent and 2 percent from
a previous outlook of between 1.8 percent and 2.3 percent on
slowing exports to western  Europe , the country’s major trading
partner.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net ;
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  