-- Rothko Boosts $611 Million Auctions as Price Rises Lure Sellers
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-02-07T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/rothko-boosts-611-million-sales-as-richer-price-rises-encourage-sellers.html
Mark Rothko ,  Gerhard Richter  and
Francis Bacon paintings will boost auctions this month that may
raise more than $611 million as sellers are spurred by rising
prices for museum-quality works.  Evening modern-art sales at Christie’s International and
 Sotheby’s  starting today in London may make as much as 240.4
million pounds ($380.6 million), 28 percent higher than last
February. Combined upper valuations on the equivalent sales of
contemporary works have grown 33 percent to 145.8 million
pounds, according to calculations by Bloomberg News.  New lots are coming to market as owners see auction records
for artists such as Richter,  Clyfford Still  and  Roy Lichtenstein . Wealthy individuals are turning to art as an
alternative asset class because of economic volatility and
decreased returns on financial investments, said dealers.  “People see the headlines in newspapers after the auctions
and think, ‘I want to get in on this,’” the London-based art
adviser, Tania Buckrell Pos, said. “A lot more buyers with an
investment point of view are coming into the market.”  A 1963 Bacon nude and a 1955 Rothko abstract, estimated at
about 18 million pounds and 9 million pounds to 12 million
pounds respectively, have been entered by New York-based owners
into  Christie’s  Feb. 14 sale.  Safra’s Record  The record $20.8 million paid by the London-based collector
Lily Safra for a 1997 “Abstraktes Bild” in  New York  on Nov. 9
has encouraged sellers to offer 10 Richters in the sales. The 
German artist was recently the subject of a retrospective at 
Tate Modern.  Christie’s catalog includes a 1994 green, blue and pink
Richter abstract with an estimate of 5 million pounds to 7
million pounds. A 1992 black and white canvas with bold vertical
stripes, estimated at 3 million pounds to 4 million pounds, is
the most valuable Richter at Sotheby’s on Feb. 15.  “Since the Tate retrospective, the Richter market has gone
up 40 percent,” the New York-based dealer Christophe Van de Weghe said in an interview. Christie’s sale carries a high
valuation of 96 million pounds, while  Sotheby’s (BID)  material is
estimated to raise as much as 49.8 million pounds. Both houses
are offering 66 lots.  Phillips de Pury & Co. will be offering 27 works by
established and emerging names in London on Feb. 16. Lucio Fontana’s 1960 cream six-cut “Concetto spaziale, Attese,”
valued at 1 million pounds to 1.5 million pounds, will be one of
seven highlights on view at the company’s gallery in Claridge’s
hotel from Feb. 1 to Feb. 6.  New Money  “A lot of new money has come into the market in the last
six months,” Michael McGinnis, Phillips’s head of contemporary
art, said in an interview. “In October, a client we’d never met
before saw a work on view at Claridge’s and then went on to buy
it in New York in November for more than $5 million.”  Impressionist and modern sales continue to be the most
highly valued. Last year, Paul Cezanne’s painting “The Card
Players” was bought by the emirate of Qatar for $250 million,
the most ever paid for a work of art, Vanity Fair magazine
reported on Feb. 2.  “The best Impressionist and modern works have all but 
disappeared and Russians have pushed up the prices of what does 
come to auction,” said Alan Hobart, director of  London 's Pyms 
Gallery, calling the Cezanne price a one-time event. “It does 
make sense for people to move into classic contemporary.”  Rediscovered Klimt  Gustav Klimt’s recently rediscovered 1901 canvas,
“Lakeshore with Birches,” is the star of Sotheby’s auction of 
53 works tomorrow evening, estimated to raise between 79 million
pounds and 113.3 million pounds.  Klimt’s moody painting of the shores of the Attersee at
dusk has not appeared at auction before, having been acquired by
German banker Richard Koenigs in 1902 and have remained in the
same family ever since. It is estimated at 6 million pounds to 8
million pounds.  Elizabeth Taylor , who died last year, is the best known of
half a dozen named collections that have provided works for
Christie’s Impressionist sale this evening. The 90 lots carry a 
high estimate of 127.1 million pounds.  Taylor’s 1889 Van Gogh landscape, “Vue de l’asile et de la
Chapelle de Saint-Remy,” is valued at 5 million pounds to 7
million pounds. Pictures are the last of the Oscar-winning
actress’s possessions to be sold by Christie’s. The rest of her
collection was sold for $157 million in New York in December.  Christie's will also be offering an eclectic mix of 53 
works from an unidentified European private collection on the 
evening of Feb. 9.  The sale, which includes pieces by modern and contemporary 
names such as Picasso, Miro and Chillida, combined with Old 
Masters by Luis Melendez and medieval works of art, is estimated 
to raise between 22.75 million pounds and 34.3 million pounds. 
The seller is based in  Spain , said dealers.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 