-- SABMiller, Molson Buy Cider Maker Crispin to Tap U.S. Demand
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-02-07T00:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/sabmiller-molson-buy-cider-maker-crispin-to-tap-u-s-demand.html
MillerCoors LLC, the U.S. joint
venture between  SABMiller Plc  and  Molson Coors Brewing Co. (TAP) ,
bought Crispin Cider Company for an undisclosed amount to tap
soaring demand for the fermented apple drink.  Crispin , the U.S.’s third-biggest cider producer, will be
run as a unit of MillerCoors’s Tenth and Blake division, London-
based SABMiller said in an e-mailed statement. A spokesman for
SABMiller declined to comment on the  transaction ’s price.  Cider consumption has climbed 72 percent to about 440,000
hectolitres last year in the U.S. from 2005, according to
SABMiller. Crispin, which makes The Saint, Honey Crisp and
Lansdowne unfiltered ciders, tripled volumes last year, the
statement said.  “We were looking at the best way to participate in that
growth,” Tom Cardella, chief executive officer of Tenth and
Blake, said in the statement. “Crispin stood out.”  The acquisition is the first since SABMiller made a $1.9
billion deal with  Turkey ’s Anadolu Efes Biracilik & Malt Sanayii
AS and agreed to purchase Foster’s Group Ltd. in a transaction
worth about A$10.5 billion ($11.3 billion) last year.  The acquisition includes Crispin’s affiliate, Fox Barrel
Cider Company, which makes pear ciders. Crispin, based in
Minneapolis, will continue to make its European-style hard apple
ciders in Colfax,  California , and all workers will become
employees of Tenth and Blake, the company said.  Crispin competes with Vermont Hard Cider Company and
Hornsby’s, which C&C Group Group Plc bought from E&J Gallo
Winery in November last year. C&C Group Chief Executive Officer
designate Stephen Glancey said in November he saw “huge
potential” to expand cider sales in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  