-- Sanofi Loses Court Challenge to FDA Generic Lovenox Approval
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-07T17:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/sanofi-loses-2010-court-challenge-to-fda-generic-lovenox-ruling.html
Sanofi  lost a challenge to the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration ’s approval for a generic version of
Lovenox, the blood-thinning drug that had sales of $3.7 billion
in 2010.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson today ruled that the
FDA acted within its authority when in 2010 the agency approved
the lower-cost copy produced by  Novartis AG ’s Sandoz unit with
 Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. ’s technology.  “Not only did FDA support its approach in a thorough,
well-reasoned response to Sanofi’s citizen petition, but it also
carefully considered both sides of the argument internally,”
the judge said in her 33-page ruling.  Sanofi,  France ’s leading drugmaker, sought to force the FDA
to suspend its approval of the first generic rival to Lovenox,
which was the Paris-based company’s second-biggest selling
product in 2010.  Another federal judge in  Washington  in August 2010 denied
Sanofi’s bid for a temporary order to stop the generic version
from being sold in the U.S.  Jeanne Longo, a Sanofi spokeswoman, said in an e-mail that
the company was disappointed with the ruling and is considering
its legal options.  Lower-Cost Copy  Novartis, based in Basel,  Switzerland , and Momenta
Pharmaceuticals, a biotechnology company in Cambridge,
Massachusetts, won U.S. approval in 2010 for a lower-cost copy
of Lovenox. Sanofi said in its complaint that the generic
version isn’t clinically equivalent to Lovenox, and the FDA’s
decision may cause Sanofi “irreparable harm.”  The FDA had told the court Sanofi’s challenge was “the
latest in a long line of cases in which a manufacturer of a
pioneer drug product has attempted to block generic competition
by challenging the regulatory and scientific bases” for the
agency’s approval.  Sandy Walsh , an FDA spokeswoman, had no immediate comment
on the ruling.  The case is Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC v. Food and Drug
Administration, 10-01255, U.S. District Court,  District of
Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  