-- Santander, BBVA Make $9.1 Billion in Provisions for Property
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-07T20:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/santander-bbva-make-9-1-billion-government-demanded-property-provisions.html
Spain ’s biggest lenders,  Banco
Santander  SA and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , will take a
combined 6.9 billion euros ($9.1 billion) in provisions after
the government ordered banks to recognize more property losses.  The rules will generate 4.1 billion euros of gross
additional provisions for Santander, the bank said today in an
e-mailed statement. BBVA said in a filing that its gross new
provisions will be 2.8 billion euros.  Spain is forcing banks to adjust for the loss of value in
the real estate they piled up on their balance sheets as a
result of the nation’s property crash. The government announced
on Feb. 2 new rules on banks, imposing 50 billion euros of
charges in the form of provisions and capital.  “We consider these haircuts on the portfolio to be
extremely tough and extremely painful, and really the doubts
about the adequate valuation of these assets on the balance
sheet should be substantially diminished,” BBVA Chief Financial
Officer Manuel Gonzalez Cid said on a webcast for analysts
today. “Everyone has the recognition of this problem and the
pain of this problem on the balance sheet.”  Santander said it had already charged 1.8 billion euros in
provisions against 2011 earnings. The  bank  will book another 900
million euros in gains from the sale of its bank in  Colombia ,
bringing the final amount it will charge against other  capital
gains  and provisions in 2012 down to 1.4 billion euros.  2012 Earnings  BBVA said the final amount it would charge against 2012
 earnings  would be 1.36 billion euros, accounting for existing
reserve buffers and tax effects. The rules won’t affect the
bank’s dividend policy or ability to meet capital requirements
set by the European Banking Authority, the lender said.  CaixaBank SA , Spain’s fourth-biggest lender, today said the
new rules would generate 2.44 billion euros in provisions. The
Barcelona-based bank, which earned 3 billion euros in pre-
provision profits in 2011, also has an extra provisioning buffer
of 1.84 billion euros that will allow it to “comfortably
absorb” the provisions, CaixaBank said.  Banco Popular Espanol SA , Spain’s fifth-biggest bank, said
it will make provisions of 2.6 billion euros under the rules.
The Madrid-based bank, which is merging with Banco Pastor SA,
plans to take the charge in 2012, according to a filing today.
Popular said it would comply with European Banking Authority and
Spanish  capital requirements  without resorting to state aid.  The bank said it expects operating profit of 2 billion
euros this year and has a “very positive” outlook for 2013.  Banco Sabadell SA said it would have to make 1.61 billion
euros in provisions and expected to be able cover most of the
amount this year with  operating profit . The bank will cover 410
million euros through other transactions, the Sabadell, Spain-
based bank said in a filing to regulators today.  Bankinter SA , a mortgage lender, said in a filing to
regulators it would have to have make provisions of 146 million
euros to be covered through earnings this year.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  