-- Sarkozy Vows to Leave French Family Tax Breaks Untouched
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-07T14:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/sarkozy-vows-to-leave-french-family-tax-breaks-untouched.html
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
vowed to leave tax deductions for children untouched, saying
there’s no need to change a system that’s enabled the country’s
population growth to outpace its neighbors.  “In the name of what ideology should we change a system
that’s the envy of the world,” Sarkozy said in a speech on
family policy near Toulouse in the south of France.  How the  tax code  treats children has emerged as one of the
main issues distinguishing Sarkozy from Socialist challenger
 Francois Hollande , who is leading Sarkozy in the polls ahead of
France’s two rounds of presidential elections in April and May.  Hollande has suggested making the system means-tested,
limiting deductions for high-earning families and increasing
direct payments to poor families that can’t benefit from the tax
breaks because they earn too little to pay income tax.  “The greatness of our family policy is that it doesn’t
distinguish among children,” Sarkozy said. “We do not confuse
family and welfare policy.”  Fiddling with the system “would weaken an intelligent  tax
policy  that allows middle-class families to raise their children
and continue to spend without sacrificing necessities,” he
said.  France’s family-tax deductions, child-care centers and
payments to families amount to 5.1 percent of economic output,
compared with a European average of 2.55 percent, Sarkozy said.
With its higher birth rate, France’s population will overtake
 Germany ’s in 30 years, he said.  In his speech in the town of Lavaur, Sarkozy also defended
his decision to cut social charges paid by employers and make up
the lost revenue with higher sales taxes.  “It is a just reform that improves the competitiveness of
our country,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Lavaur,  France  at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  