-- Saudi Arabia Most Risky of Emerging Economies, Maplecroft Says
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-02-07T12:11:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/saudi-arabia-most-risky-of-emerging-economies-maplecroft-says.html
Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
crude exporter, has the most uncertain political environment of
15 major growth economies including  China  and Russia, according
to the founder of risk-assessment consultants  Maplecroft .  The political peril this year in 12 of those nations is
decreasing, while it is rising in Saudi Arabia, Turkey and
Vietnam, Alyson Warhurst said at a conference in Dubai today.
Saudi Arabia is the only country in the group which faces
increasing short-term and long-term political threat, she said.  “Saudi Arabia faces three issues,” Warhurst said in an
interview. “An educated and disgruntled youth buoyed by the
success of the Arab Spring elsewhere, water and energy security,
and general issues of oppression and the lack of political
freedom.”  Saudi Arabia’s monarchy has avoided the plight of leaders
in Tunisia, Egypt and  Libya  who were overthrown last year by
youth-driven uprisings. King Abdullah announced a $130 billion
government spending package for social and housing projects in
an attempt to keep social unrest at bay.  The kingdom is the de facto leader of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, which supplies 40 percent of the
world’s crude oil. Saudi Arabia pumped 9.65 million barrels a
day in January, almost a third of OPEC’s 30.9 million barrel-a-
day output last month, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Turkey faces short-term dangers because of its legal and
regulatory environment, while Vietnam is suffering from unrest
and strikes as commodity prices rise, Warhurst said.  The 15 growth economies surveyed by Maplecroft were  Brazil ,
Chile, China,  India , Indonesia, Iran, Mexico, Mongolia, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Peru, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Vietnam.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  