-- Senate Considers Taxes From Inherited IRAs to Pay for Roads
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-02-07T17:49:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/senate-considers-taxes-from-inherited-iras-to-pay-for-roads-1-.html
U.S. highway and bridge projects
would be financed by tax changes including closing loopholes,
forcing early distribution of inherited IRAs and reallocating
other tariffs under legislation before a Senate panel today.  The panel will also consider an amendment to let the
federal vehicle tax rise with inflation. A recommendation to
require distribution of inherited individual retirement accounts
within five years would bring in about $4.64 billion during 10
years, according to a statement issued by the Senate Finance
panel led by  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat.  The subcommittee needed to find about $30 billion spanning
two years to fund the Senate version of legislation to pay for
road and bridge repairs, the Congressional Budget Office said in
a report yesterday. The House version, passed by the
transportation panel last week, identified funding including
U.S. fuel taxes intended for mass transit projects.  A provision to transfer certain tariff revenue to the
Highway Trust Fund, which pays for transportation projects,
would raise $2.61 billion, according to the statement. Other
Senate Finance recommendations include closing tax loopholes
related to alternative-energy credits and for penalties levied
against some low-mileage vehicles and delinquent tax debt.  Inherited IRAs  The updated bill also would impose limits on inherited
IRAs. Under current law, the holder of an IRA must start taking
taxable distributions at age 70 1/2. Savings can build tax-free
when the account holder dies and leaves the account to someone
younger who can spread out distributions over a lifetime.  The change would raise $4.6 billion in the next decade and
require people who inherit IRAs to pay taxes on that income
within five years of the original holder’s death, with some
exceptions.  The Highway Trust fund, which reimburses states for
transportation projects, may be unable to meet its financial
obligations as soon as October, according to an analysis of
 Congressional Budget Office  data by the  American Association  of
State Highway and Transportation Officials.  The U.S. government may have to ration payments to the
states to keep the fund solvent, according to the CBO.  One of the amendments under consideration to the Senate
bill calls for changing the federal  tax code  to allow for annual
adjustments of the federal fuel taxes in line with inflation
rates. Senator Mike Enzi, a Wyoming Republican, offered the
amendment, which notes that the fuel tax hasn’t been changed
since 1993.  Enzi is among 276 federal Republican lawmakers and three
Democrats to sign a pledge by  Grover Norquist , who advocates
lower levies, promising not to raise taxes.  The federal government receives 18.4 cents from the sale of
every gallon of gas for the Highway Trust Fund. It uses a
formula to determine how much money each state gets in return.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  