-- Serbia Seen Lowering Benchmark Interest Rate 8th Time Since June
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-02-07T12:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/serbia-seen-lowering-benchmark-interest-rate-8th-time-since-june.html
Serbia  will probably cut its
benchmark  interest rate  for the eighth time since June as weak
domestic demand and slowing growth keep inflation in check.  The Belgrade-based Narodna Banka Srbije will lower its  two-
week repurchase rate  by a quarter of a percentage point to 9.25
percent when it meets on Feb. 9, according to 12 of 23
economists in a Bloomberg  survey . One predicted a half-point cut
to 9 percent while 10 saw the central bank holding rates.  Policy makers are weighing the domestic fiscal situation
and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis for future direction. The
inflation rate may fall below 5.8 percent by April and hover
around the mid-target rate of 4 percent by the end of 2012. This
would create room to lower borrowing costs further as long as
the current easing cycle hasn’t weakened the dinar too much,
analysts said.  “Slowing inflation will remain the key rationale behind
their likely decision to cut the rate again,” said Ratko Guduric, the deputy head of Treasury Division at Vojvodjanska
Banka AD, a member of the National Bank of Greece SA group.  Serbia is struggling to keep the economy from returning to
a recession. Gross domestic product expanded 0.8 percent in the
last quarter of 2011 from a year earlier, compared with 3.7
percent at the beginning of last year. The  International
Monetary Fund  is expected to lower its 1.5 percent growth
forecast for Serbia as the debt crisis weakens demand for the
Balkan nation’s exports and weighs on capital inflows.  Weak Dinar  So far, the inflationary effect of the weakening dinar
should be outweighed by a 17 percent drop in consumer demand in
2011, said Jasna Atanasijevic, the chief economist at Belgrade-
based Hypo-Alpe-Adria Bank AD.  The dinar weakened 0.5 percent yesterday, closing at
106.5622 to the euro, according to central bank’s figures,
extending its losses for the third consecutive trading day. It
traded at 106.98 to the euro at 2:42 p.m. in Belgrade.  Analysts in the survey forecast a dinar rate of 105.25 to
the euro at the end of February, down from last month’s median
forecast of 104 dinars to the euro.  Any further dinar weakening “may keep the central bank’s
hands tied,” Vladimir Vuckovic of the Serbian Fiscal Council, a
three-member body appointed by parliament to monitor if the
government complies with self-imposed fiscal rules, said in a
phone interview.  The latest dinar declines may reflect investor concern over
whether Serbia keeps its $1.3 billion precautionary loan program
with the IMF in force, he said.  IMF Review  An IMF mission arrived in Belgrade for a week-long check on
Serbian finances, two weeks after the lender’s board postponed
the approval of the first review under the program, granted last
September.  The IMF is concerned about Serbia’s budget, where borrowing
and sovereign guarantees “deviate” from program targets by
around 1 percentage point of GDP, or around 300 million euros
($393 million).  The central bank, whose mandate is to ensure financial
stability and low inflation, may need to use policy instruments
other than the benchmark rate to “jump-start the economy and
encourage lending,” said Ljiljana Grubic, an analyst with
Raiffeisenbank’s Serbian unit. She forecast no change in
borrowing on Feb. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  