-- Ship Guards Breach Safety Regulations by Firing Live Ammunition in Drills
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-02-07T08:04:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/ship-guards-breach-safety-regulations-by-firing-live-ammunition-in-drills.html
Most armed guards on ships are not
following safety regulations with breaches including firing live
ammunition during on-board drills, according to a company that
vets security firms for ship owners and insurers.  A “significant majority” of guards operating in the most
dangerous trade lanes off  East Africa  don’t comply with safety
laws and industry guidelines, James Wilkes, managing director of
Oxford, U.K.-based adviser Gray Page, said by phone yesterday.
Other failings include lacking gun licenses and insurance, he
said, citing the findings of surveys his company has conducted.  The threat of Somali pirates has led to as many as 180
companies providing armed guards on as much as a third of the
ships sailing in the  Indian Ocean , compared with less than 10
percent a year ago, according to Wilkes. Guards need to meet
U.K. and European Union laws, as well as guidelines from the
United Nations’ International Maritime Organization, until a
uniform protocol is developed, he said.  “These things can take time. It doesn’t mean we’re going
to let armed security personnel operate lawlessly until such
time,” he said. “If a crew member were to get killed and the
owner’s due diligence gets scrutinized, if it’s not there the
lawyers will have a field day.”  About 23,000 ships carrying $1 trillion of trade pass
through the  Gulf of Aden  between Yemen and Somalia every year,
the U.K. government estimates. Maritime piracy costs the global
economy an estimated $7 billion to $12 billion annually,
according to the IMO.  Somali Attacks  Gray Page surveys security companies on behalf of ship
owners and insurers to assess legal compliance, safety and
professionalism, Wilkes said. He declined to say how many had
been evaluated since the vetting program began last year.  Somali pirates attacked 31 vessels and captured four in the
last three months of 2011, the London-based International
Maritime Bureau said Jan. 19, compared with 90 attacks and 19
hijackings a year earlier. Global attacks fell for the first
time in five years helped by naval forces’ pre-emptive strikes,
the bureau said.  While the IMO doesn’t endorse using armed guards, more
countries are starting to allow them on vessels that fly their
flag. The U.K., which changed its policy in October, needs to
provide clear guidance on when private guards can open fire, the
cross-party House of Commons Foreign Affairs Committee said in a
Jan. 5 report.  Some underwriters give discounts to ships that hire armed
guards, Ole Wikborg, president of the International Union of
Marine Insurance, said at a meeting in London Jan. 24.  Clearer Standards Needed  Gray Page isn’t the only firm to monitor guards’
compliance. The Security Association for the Maritime Industry,
a trade group representing arm guards companies, started an
accreditation program with an independent certification body,
the National Security Inspectorate, on Feb. 1. The association
did not answer an e-mail and phone calls yesterday and today.  Clearer standards will help ship owners choose safe and
professional guards, said Jakob Larsen, security officer at the
Baltic and International Maritime Council, the largest trade
group representing two-thirds of the world’s ship owners. A
standard contract for ship owners and private security companies
will be finalized in a few weeks, he said.  “Once we have a set of standards against which you can
benchmark companies, those companies that do not live up to the
standards will find it more difficult to get employment with the
more responsible ship owners,” Larsen said by phone. “We think
the area must be regulated.”  The European Union naval force patrolling in the southern
 Red Sea , Gulf of Aden and western Indian Ocean typically has 10
warships at most to cover 2 million square nautical miles, its
 website  shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  