-- Siemens Signs First Personalized Medicine Diagnostics Deals
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-02-07T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/siemens-signs-first-agreements-for-personalized-medicine-diagnostics.html
Siemens AG ,  Europe ’s largest
engineering company, is wading into the multibillion-dollar
field of personalized medicine by announcing deals to develop
companion tests with two drugmakers.  The Munich-based company will work with HIV drugmaker ViiV
Healthcare Ltd. and Tocagen Inc., a developer of an experimental
brain tumor treatment, to create tests that will determine which
patients will benefit from the therapies, said Trevor Hawkins,
head of Siemens’ next generation diagnostics division.  “This is a major step forward for us, moving into this
multibillion market, which we haven’t been in up until today,”
Hawkins said in an interview. “We have every expectation to now
growth this much further beyond where we are.”  Personalized medicine involves determining whether a
patient is genetically susceptible to a particular disease or
would be especially responsive to certain treatments. These new
therapies often require special genetic tests, which are being
created by separate companies, in some cases.  Siemens, which makes products ranging from  light bulbs  to
high-speed trains, is under increased pressure to keep up with
competitors such as Basel, Switzerland-based Roche AG, which is
attempting a hostile takeover of gene-mapping company Illumina
Inc.,  Ben Uglow , an analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a note
to clients last month.  Molecular Diagnostics  The market for molecular diagnostics, which includes
personalized medicine tests, will more than double in the U.S.
to $5.5 billion in 2016 from its $2.5 billion size in 2010,
according to  TriMarkPublications.com .  ViiV, a venture between London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) 
and New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s biggest drugmaker,
has an HIV drug called Selzentry that works with patients that
have a specific form of the virus. Siemens will develop a test
to help doctors determine which patients would benefit from the
therapy.  Tocagen, based in  San Diego , is working on a treatment for
glioma, or  brain cancer , called Toca 511 that’s in early human
trials. Working with Siemens will give the company more
credibility in discussions with the  Food and Drug Administration 
and a quicker approach in marketing if approved, said Harry Gruber, chief executive officer of closely held Tocagen.  Formal Process  “We realized you really have to have a company that could
commercialize as part of your team during the registration
studies,” Gruber said in an interview. “We went through a very
formal process to interview all the major players in the
companion diagnostics space, and from the very beginning, this
is the team we jelled with.”  No financial details of the agreements were disclosed.  Siemens, Roche and  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  are seeking to form
partnerships with drugmakers to develop these companion tests,
said  David Parker , vice president of the consulting firm Boston
Healthcare.  “The test makers are all out there talking with potential
pharma partners,” Parker, based in  Washington , said in an
interview. “I think we’re going to see nothing but an increase
in the frequency in which drugs and diagnostics come to
market.”  The pace of such approvals has accelerated, said Gwen
Gordon, a spokeswoman for the  Personalized Medicine Coalition ,
an industry advocacy group based in Washington. More than 72
such therapies are available today, a fivefold increase from the
13 available in 2006.  “In the past, it had been a much more difficult process to
get the drug and the diagnostic approved, because there’s
different people at the FDA that work on each set of products,”
Gordon said. Now, the groups are coordinating more as drugmakers
recognize the market’s potential. “They recognized that there
is a market for tailored therapies for patients that know that
the drug is going to work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  