-- Smugglers Prosper in Spain’s ‘Perfect Storm’ for Tobacco
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-02-08T17:03:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/smugglers-prosper-in-spain-s-perfect-storm-for-tobacco-firms.html
Spanish smokers, squeezed by  higher
taxes  and a deepening recession, are increasingly relying on
smugglers to feed their habit.  Illegal imports now account for 7 percent to 8 percent of
Spanish cigarette sales, compared with almost nothing a year
ago, according to the country’s tobacconists association. In
southern provinces such as Cadiz, Seville and Malaga, the
proportion is 20 percent.  “Smuggling and fake tobacco, which had been eradicated
since 1993, came back strongly last year,” said Jaime Gil-
Robles, corporate affairs director at Altadis, the Spanish unit
of  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc. (IMT)   Smuggling, encouraged by a December 2010 increase in
tobacco taxes and a ban on smoking in public places, has eroded
both government coffers and company revenues. Spain, which has
the European Union’s  highest  jobless rate, collected 14 percent
less tobacco taxes in 2011 than a forecast of 9.05 billion euros
($12 billion), excluding value-added tax, according to Altadis.  “The fiscal policy was disastrous as it forced an average
increase of 50 euro cents per packet,” Gil-Robles said. “Add
the crisis and skyrocketing unemployment to that and you have
the best scenario for smuggling and illicit tobacco.”  In a single week last month, Spanish tax authorities seized
more than a million illegal packets of cigarettes worth about 4
million euros. In December, officials said they confiscated
561,500 packets of fake Marlboro brand cigarettes which were
imported from  China  and entered the country through the port of
 Valencia  in a container marked “synthetic fiber.”  ‘Tremendously Worrisome’  The increase in smuggling is “tremendously worrisome for
the whole industry,” said Mario Espejo, chairman of the Spanish
tobacco association, which represents more than two-thirds of
the country’s 14,000 tobacconists.  BAT,  Europe ’s biggest cigarette maker, estimates that 6
percent to 12 percent of the 5.5 trillion cigarettes consumed
worldwide each year are obtained through illicit means such as
smuggling, its  website  shows.  In Spain, the number of packets sold last year declined 17
percent to 3.02 billion from 3.62 billion in 2010,  according to 
the Tobacco Market Commission. Altadis this month requested a
two-year freeze on tobacco tax to help the market recover.  In May, Altadis cut the price of Fortuna, Nobel and Ducados
in  Spain  to maintain competitiveness after it sold 16 percent
fewer cigarettes there in the first half of the fiscal year.  Bleak 2012 Outlook  “Last year, there were three big shocks in Spain for the
consumer: the tough economic environment, excise increases and
the smoking in public spaces ban,” Alison Cooper, chief
executive officer of Bristol, England-based  Imperial Tobacco ,
said in an interview in Madrid. “That caused the perfect storm
in terms of the Spanish market.”  This year will again be “tough,” though declines may not
be as steep, Cooper said.  Altadis has the biggest share of Spain’s cigarette market
at 33.3 percent, according to the tobacco market commission.
That compares with 30.7 percent for  Philip Morris International
Inc. (PM) , 21 percent for  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914)  and BAT’s 11.8 percent.  Philip Morris , the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco
company, isn’t anticipating much improvement in Spain this year.  “The dynamics observed in the Spanish market in 2011,
mainly the adverse economic circumstances and the high
 unemployment rate , are likely to continue in 2012,” the maker
of Marlboro said in a statement to Bloomberg News.  Restaurant Sales Decline  Imperial Tobacco fell 0.7 percent to 2,410 pence at the
close of trading in  London  today, while  British American Tobacco
Plc (BATS)  slid 0.3 percent to 3,082.5 pence. Philip Morris dropped 0.3
percent to $77.34 as of 11:58 a.m. in  New York .  The ban on smoking in public places, introduced at the
beginning of last year, is another reason for the decline in
tobacco sales, according to Alfredo Arahuetes, dean of the
Economic Sciences and Business Administration School at  Madrid ’s
 Comillas Pontifical University .  “Lots of bars have seen their business damaged,”
Arahuetes said by phone. “Prices here are also a bit lower than
in other European countries so tourists come not only for the
sun, beaches and parties, but also to take as much tobacco as
they can.”  Smokers can avoid paying taxes on cigarettes by buying
illegal tobacco from people who sell on the street to those who
have stepped outside of bars and restaurants to light up, said
Marcelino Gamez, president of  ONAE , a lobby group that
represents about 2,500 Spanish tobacconists.  Gibraltar, Andorra  Tobacco prices in Spain should be matched with other
European countries, while being removed from the list of
products measured to calculate the  consumer price index , said
Antonino Joya, a director at  consumer rights group  OCU.  The northwest region of Galicia, along with Gibraltar in
the south and Andorra in the north, are the main locations for
smuggling, the tobacco association’s Espejo said, adding that
the  Canary Islands , which benefit from lower taxes, have become
another hot spot. A 4.25-euro packet of Marlboro cigarettes can
be bought for about 2.25 euros on the black market, he said.  Alvaro Alonso, a manager at Los Angeles restaurant in
Madrid, said revenue has dropped 15 percent to 20 percent since
the smoking ban was introduced.  “The economic crisis and the smoking ban are a having huge
negative impact on this type of business,” 33-year-old Alonso
said. “We are just trying to survive.”  For the government, the need to tackle smuggling is just as
pressing as it seeks to tackle the euro area’s third-largest
 budget deficit , said the tobacco association’s Espejo. About 80
percent of the cost of a packet of cigarettes is taxes, he said.  “As a country, we can’t afford the luxury of losing so
much money in taxes as we fight to cut the budget deficit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  