-- Snow Blankets Croatia’s Palms as Cold, Winds Hamper East Europe Rescuers
-- B y   D o u g l a s   L y t l e   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-02-07T13:03:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/snow-blankets-croatia-s-palms-as-cold-winds-hamper-east-europe-rescuers.html
Blizzard conditions, record-low
temperatures and high winds persisted from Bulgaria to Baku,
disrupting transportation and complicating efforts to respond to
a calamity that has claimed hundreds of lives in central and
eastern  Europe  in the last week.  Palm trees lining the beaches of the Adriatic sea city of
Split in  Croatia  were bowed under snow while streets in the port
town were clogged due to a lack of equipment for dealing with
winter conditions. Winds in neighboring Slovenia reached as high
as 180 kilometers an hour (112 miles), slowing truck transport
on highways and roads through the Alpine country.  “Split has not seen this kind of weather in 50 years and
citizens were completely unprepared as they don’t have the
proper clothes, the proper tools or even proper car tires,”
said deputy mayor Jure Sundov in a phone interview. “By now
they heeded our advice to help themselves and are trying to
clean snow and ice with whatever they have.”  A mix of cold Siberian air from the north and winter snows
from the  Mediterranean Sea  into the Balkans are forecast to
persist for at least a week from  Russia  to the German border,
according to local forecasts from various meteorological
services. Temperatures in the  Czech Republic  may fall to as low
as minus 25 degrees Celsius (minus 13 degrees Fahrenheit) in the
coming days,  according  to the Czech Hydrometeorlogical
Institute.  ‘Unrewarding Job’  “I’m shoveling snow and scraping ice off the sidewalk and
in an hour it’ll all be under snow again,” Krassimir Popov, a
food store owner in the Bulgarian capital of Sofia, said in an
interview. “It’s an unrewarding job.”  Demand for electricity, hot water and natural gas has
surged, also leading to fires in homes and businesses from
overheating or bad wiring. Power consumption in  Poland  rose to a
record yesterday, grid operator PSE Operator SA said and reached
a two-year high in  Estonia .  “In the first week of February when orders for gas
increased by more than 50 percent of the average standard
supply, we couldn’t meet the demand by 100 percent,” Gazprom
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Alexander Medvedev said at a
press conference in Vilnius today. “But the European consumers
were not hurt because there is more than enough gas at storage
facilities across Europe. The amount of gas in storages can meet
the demand in similar cold weathers for the next 30 days.”  Bulgaria, Poland  Bulgaria’s Black Sea ports of Varna, Burgas and Balchik
closed today because of strong winds, authorities said. Some 60
towns and villages in northern  Bulgaria  are without electricity,
affecting some 150,000 people as strong winds cut power cables,
while floods in the south disrupted power supplies for 20
villages, the utilities said today. Ship loading was also
disrupted in Novorossiysk on the Russian part of the Black Sea.  Six cold-related deaths were reported yesterday in Poland,
according to police, bringing the death toll since Jan. 27 to
67. The mid- morning  temperature in Warsaw reached minus 13
degrees Celsius, compared with minus 18 Celsius yesterday.
Conditions were little changed in  Ukraine , where temperatures
reached minus 17 degrees Celsius in Kiev and reported deaths
from the cold exceeded 200 in the last 11 days, according to
Ukraine’s Emergency Ministry. As many as 40 schools remain
closed in the country.  Recovery Efforts  Elektrownia Kozienice, a power plant of Poland’s third-
largest utility  Enea SA (ENA) , yesterday delayed a restart of 560-
megawatt capacity as it is still waiting for the water level on
the Vistula river to rise, Ewa Dobrzanska-Trela, a spokeswoman
for the unit, said by phone today.  Kiev residents were tiring of days of bad weather and
arctic chill that has turned streets into sheets of ice.  “It is yet another chance to observe how the authorities
are ‘saving up’ on cleaning streets from snow and roofs from
dangerous icicles,” Irina Didichenko, an architect with three
children, said. “It is nice in many ways because we are helping
our grandparents, elderly neighbors to go get groceries because
it is slippery outside.”  Temperatures in Warsaw were as low as minus 13 degrees
Celsius today, and are forecast to average minus 14 degrees
tomorrow and on Feb. 9, according to CustomWeather Inc. data.
That compares with a five-year average of minus 4 degrees, the
data show.  Road Closures  Romania  closed 46 national roads today because of blizzard
conditions and four  Black Sea  ports because of strong winds. Air
traffic at the country’s two international airports in Bucharest
was also disrupted, the Romanian Transport Ministry said.  Traffic on the Romanian section of the Danube river was
also closed after  Serbia  shut its section of the waterway due to
ice flows, the government said. Bulgaria’s border crossings with
Romania across the Danube and to  Turkey  were closed after floods
and blizzards blocked roads in the country. A dam burst in the
south of Bulgaria, killing eight people, destroying hundreds of
livestock and some 200 houses yesterday.  Sections of railroads and highways going to Turkey were
swept away by overflowing rivers yesterday, while freezing
temperatures and heavy snowfall today hindered rescue and
recovery operations. Most of Bulgaria’s southern cities
including Haskovo, Harmanli and Kardjali near the Greek and
Turkish borders are in a state of emergency. Bulgarian Prime
Minister  Boiko Borissov  has asked the European Union for aid to
clean up and rebuild flooded areas.  Fresh Snowfall  As much as 15 centimeters of new snow fell overnight across
 Austria , slowing traffic on highways, the Central Institute for
Meteorlogy and Geodynamics reported. Two blocks of the Danube
river were closed at the Ottensheim and Wallsee watergates, it
said.  In Serbia, not all the news was bad after more than a week
of heavy snowfall.  “The thick layer of snow is a blessing for wheat” sown in
the late autumn as it protects the crop from freezing and also
guarantees humidity in the spring, said Branislav Gulan of
Serbia’s Chamber of Commerce’s agriculture department. Gulan
said 30 percent of the barley crop was destroyed by the cold
that struck before the snowfall.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas Lytle in Prague at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  