-- Sondheim’s ‘Merrily We Roll Along’ Returns 30 Years After Broadway Flop
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/sondheim-s-merrily-we-roll-along-returns-30-years-after-broadway-flop.html
“ Merrily We Roll Along ,” which
opens the “ Encores! ” series Wednesday night at New York City
Center, features one of  Stephen Sondheim ’s catchiest scores,
full of songs that have gone on to become standards.  Nevertheless, it had a miserable time on Broadway.  The Nov. 1, 1981, opening was delayed twice, the
choreographer and lead actor were replaced in previews and
theatergoers were fleeing at intermission.  “In those days you didn’t have the Internet to chew him
up,” said James Lapine, a longtime Sondheim collaborator who’s
directing the “Encores!” edition. Even without amateur critics
carping at keyboards, “Merrily” lasted just 16 regular
performances.  What a difference three decades makes. “Merrily” is
booked for the longest “Encores!” engagement ever -- 15
performances -- and demand for seats from producers and other
insiders is robust, said Jack Viertel, the series’ artistic
director.  Although “Encores!” launched Broadway revivals of
“ Chicago ,” “Finian’s Rainbow” and “Gypsy,” Lapine is eager
to lower expectations.  “I don’t think we’re bringing it back as much as
celebrating it,” he said in a City Center conference room. “I
have no idea how it will be received.”  Back in Time  Adapted by George Furth from the 1934 George S. Kaufman and
Moss Hart play, it tells the story of three friends -- a
composer, a lyricist and a novelist. The story is told in
reverse order -- from 1981 to 1957 -- as characters devolve from
cynical and successful middle-age to ambitious and idealistic
youth.  Sondheim wrote in his book “Finishing the Hat” that he
and director Hal Prince erred in casting actors in their late
teens and early twenties. The intention was that they be
disguised as middle-aged sophisticates and become their innocent
selves as the evening progressed.  Instead, “actors that young, no matter how talented,
rarely have the experience or skills to play anything but
themselves, and in this case even that caused them
difficulties,” he wrote. (An exception was 21-year Jason Alexander, of “Seinfeld” fame.  “...it was as if he had been
born middle-aged,” Sondheim wrote.)  Out of Ashes  The failure of the show ended, at least for two decades,
Sondheim’s unmatched collaboration with Prince, which had
produced the landmark shows “Company,” “Follies” and
“Sweeney Todd,” among others.  Sondheim went on to create “Sunday in the Park with
George” and two other shows with Lapine. In 1985 Lapine staged
a revised “Merrily” in  La Jolla ,  California , with a more
mature cast. He introduced projections to guide the audience to
each period of the action.  “The thing you do is try not to make it something the
audience has to think about,” Lapine said.  Viertel, then a critic with the Los Angeles Herald
Examiner, was impressed.  “From the ashes of one of the unhappiest of Broadway
failures has come a musical that can stand among the finest
works the genre has ever offered,” he wrote.  The best-known songs include “Old Friends,” the torchy
ballad “Not a Day Goes By” and “Good Thing Going.”  Fell in Love  “I totally fell in love with it,” said Celia Keenan-
Bolger, a 34-year-old actress who first heard the score as a
teenager in  Detroit . “It was about friends who wanted to be in
show business. The show has always resonated with me so
deeply.”  After a  Roundabout Theatre Co.  revival fell through, Lapine
approached Viertel about an “Encores!” staging.  The leads at “Encores!” are Keenan-Bolger, Colin Donnell
(“Anything Goes”) and Lin-Manuel Miranda, the composer and
star of the musical “In the Heights” who’s more closely
identified with rap and hip-hop than ballads.  In “Finishing the Hat,” Sondheim describes the original
Broadway production, for all its tumult and disappointment, as
“the most fun I’ve ever had on a single show.”  Lapine, who has his own history with “Merrily,” is
skeptical.  “I think it’s like childbirth,” he said. “You remember
the joyous part.”  (“Merrily We Roll Along” runs Feb 8 through 19 at City
Center, 131 W. 55th St. Information: +1-212-581-1212;
 http://www.nycitycenter.org .)  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 