-- South Korea Set to Follow Australia in Holding Rates as Inflation Persists
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S a r i n a   Y o o
-- 2012-02-07T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/south-korea-set-to-follow-australia-s-rate-pause-as-u-s-revives.html
South  Korea  will probably follow
Australia’s lead and refrain from cutting  interest rates 
tomorrow as the global economy shows signs of strength and
officials highlight price pressures.  The Bank of Korea will keep the benchmark  seven-day
repurchase rate  unchanged at 3.25 percent according to 18 of 19
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. One analyst sees a cut to
3 percent.  U.S. growth, “robust” indicators from  China  and progress
in taming Europe’s debt crisis encouraged Australian policy
makers to keep rates on hold yesterday, the central bank
indicated.  South Korea ’s expansion may gradually pick up pace in
the second half of this year as global conditions improve, the
Bank of Korea said yesterday .  “We no longer expect rate cuts in 2012, given the
stronger-than-expected global growth momentum and signs of
improvement in  Europe ’s financial condition,” said Kwon Goohoon, a Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economist in Seoul who
formerly worked for the  International Monetary Fund .  In the past three weeks in the Asia-Pacific region, Sri
Lanka raised rates, Thailand cut, and  Malaysia  and  New Zealand 
made no change. India also paused, while cutting reserve
requirements for banks. South Korea has kept benchmark borrowing
costs unchanged since June after five increases from financial-
crisis lows.  Inflation Expectations  A dip in the Korean inflation rate to 3.4 percent in
January was largely because of a high year-earlier level, the
central bank said in a report to the National Assembly
yesterday. Price pressures will likely persist on elevated
inflation expectations and unstable oil costs, it said.  “Given a tight labor market, persistent inflation
expectations, and loose monetary conditions, we see no scope for
rate cuts this year” in South Korea, Erik Lueth, a Hong Kong-
based economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc., said. It
is “too early to call an end to inflation” and economic growth
is “not weak enough to warrant interest cuts,” Lueth said.  Asia’s fourth-largest economy is getting some fiscal
support from plans for 60 percent of this year’s government
spending to occur in the first six months. South Korea’s Kospi
Index climbed 0.4 percent yesterday as Greek lawmakers worked to
secure a bailout. The won rose 0.2 percent 1,118.53 per dollar
in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stevens’ Views  Reserve Bank of Australia Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his
board unexpectedly left the overnight cash-rate target at 4.25
percent yesterday. The decision was predicted by three of 27
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The other 24 forecast a
quarter percentage-point reduction.  “The acute financial pressures on banks in Europe were
alleviated considerably late in 2011 by the actions of
policymakers,” Stevens said yesterday. “Much remains to be
done to put European sovereigns and banks on a sound footing,
but some progress has been made.”  Financial market sentiment has also improved, he said.
In the U.S., the world's biggest economy, a sinking jobless
rate has added to signs of a revival.   The  Bank of Korea  and the South Korean government both
forecast the nation’s economy will grow 3.7 percent this year
after a 3.6 percent gain last year. Hyundai Motor Co., South
Korea’s largest automaker, reported a jump in fourth-quarter
profit, fueled by U.S. demand.  Bank of Korea Governor Kim Choong Soo said on Jan. 17 that
South Korea’s interest rates are still “accommodative” and
indicated that they will need to rise at some time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net ; 