-- South Carolina Sues Justice Department Over Voter-ID Law Block
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-07T22:15:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/south-carolina-sues-justice-department-over-voter-id-law-block.html
South Carolina  sued the U.S.  Justice
Department  over its decision to block a law requiring voters to
show photo identification at polls, the state’s attorney general
said.  The Justice Department said in December that it was
blocking the South Carolina statute because the law would
“significantly” burden non-white voters. It was the first time
the Obama administration intervened against any of eight states
that enacted new voter-ID laws or tightened existing ones last
year.  South Carolina Attorney General Alan Wilson said in a
statement that he filed the  suit  today in federal court in
Washington against the Justice Department and U.S. Attorney
General Eric Holder, seeking a declaration that the law won’t
harm the voting rights of minorities. The complaint couldn’t be
immediately verified with the court.  “The DOJ has denied citizens in South Carolina protection
of a law that the U.S. Supreme Court upheld in  Indiana , and the
DOJ itself pre-cleared for Georgia,” Wilson said. “Nothing in
this law prevents anyone from voting if they cannot immediately
show a valid photo identification.”  The  American Civil Liberties Union  said it will seek to
intervene in the South Carolina case to protect the rights of
minorities and uphold the Voting Rights Act of 1965.  “The Department of Justice followed the letter and spirit
of the law when it rejected South Carolina’s discriminatory
voter-ID law,” Nancy Abudu, a senior staff attorney with the
ACLU’s Voting Rights Project, said in a statement.  Xochitl Hinojosa, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment.  The case is South Carolina v. U.S., U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  