-- Standard Chartered Said in Talks to Buy HSBC Bangladesh Branches
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-02-07T19:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/standard-chartered-said-in-talks-to-buy-hsbc-bangladesh-branches.html
Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  is in talks to
buy  HSBC Holdings Plc ’s consumer banking operations in
Bangladesh, said three people with knowledge of the discussions.  The negotiations are still at an early stage, said one of
the people, who declined to be identified because the
transaction is private. The talks are being held in  London ,
another person said.  Standard Chartered, which earns  most of its profit  in
 emerging markets , is the largest overseas bank in Bangladesh
with 26 branches and 57 automated teller machines, according to
the  bank’s website . London-based HSBC opened its first branch in
the country in 1996 and has 13 offices.  HSBC is reversing two decades of expansion by selling
assets as part of Chief Executive Officer  Stuart Gulliver ’s
efforts to cut expenses and prepare for tighter capital rules.
The London-based bank is seeking buyers for its Japanese retail
unit, people familiar with the matter said last month. It has
already sold banking operations in Thailand, Costa Rica, El
Salvador and Honduras.  “We’re in the process of reviewing our portfolio
internationally,” HSBC spokesman Paul Harris said in an e-mail.
“Our priority is to allocate our capital more efficiently. That
means we’ll continue to invest in markets with strategic
relevance and either turn around, dispose or close those that
don’t.” Both Harris and Jon Tracey, a spokesman for Standard
Chartered in London, declined to comment on the negotiations.  Standard Chartered bolstered its position in  Bangladesh 
with the purchase of the South Asian and Middle Eastern
operations of Melbourne-based ANZ Grindlays Bank Ltd. in 2000,
which made it the biggest foreign lender in India, Pakistan,  Sri
Lanka  and Bangladesh.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  