-- Glencore’s $39 Billion Xstrata Offer Hinges on ‘Super’ 16%
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y ,   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-02-08T09:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/standard-life-schroders-are-among-holders-opposing-xstrata-deal.html
The fate of Glencore International
Plc’s 24.3 billion-pound ($39 billion) offer for  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ,
already opposed by some shareholders, hinges on a small minority
of investors who can block the deal.  Xstrata shareholders accounting for just 16.48 percent of
the company have the power to block the deal because U.K.
takeover rules prevent Glencore from voting. That gives
investors who oppose the takeover, including Standard Life
Investments Ltd. and  Schroders Plc (SDR) , more leverage to force
Glencore to sweeten terms of its offer.  “This is far from a done deal,” said Chris Searle,
corporate finance partner at BDO LLP. “Two of the biggest
shareholders have come out in public to say they’re unhappy. I’m
sure there are more in private making the same point.”  While Xstrata’s chief executive officer,  Mick Davis , said a
majority of the shareholders he has spoken to back the bid,
Standard Life and Schroders, who together hold 3.5 percent, said
the proposed exchange ratio undervalues the company. Glencore
offered 2.8 shares for each one in the Zug, Switzerland-based
coal exporter, 8 percent more than the price Xstrata’s and
Glencore’s stock traded at before the deal was first reported.  “The complicated issue is that Glencore already owns a
significant portion of the partner company,” and it would only
take a small percentage to block it, said Scott Moeller, a
professor in the practice of finance at Cass Business School in
London. “Talk about a super majority.”  Raise Ratio  The premium is below the 23 percent average for 2011 mining
deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Glencore (GLEN)  may
have to push the ratio to three to one, said BDO’s Searle.  Xstrata rose 1.1 percent to 448.25 pence in  London  trading
at 8:34 a.m., retracing some of yesterday’s 4.9 percent slump,
the biggest drop since Dec. 12. Glencore gained 1.3 percent to
449.2 pence, after yesterday’s 3.8 percent drop. The offer
values Xstrata at about 39.1 billion pounds, the companies said.  The plan would create a business with $209 billion in
sales, the companies said, combining the world’s largest
publicly traded commodities supplier with Xstrata, the biggest
exporter of coal burned in power stations.  Xstrata ‘Undervalued’  “Although we see some merit in the merger of Xstrata and
Glencore, the proposed exchange ratio clearly undervalues
Xstrata’s assets and future earnings contribution,”  David Cumming , head of equities at Standard Life Investments, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “It is our intention to vote
against the deal unless the merger terms for Xstrata
shareholders are materially improved.”  Richard Buxton , the head of U.K. equities at Schroders,
also intends to vote the deal down, said Estelle Bibby, a
spokeswoman for the company. Huy Hoang, a  fund manager  at HDH
Capital Management Pte, said he would also oppose the plan.  Schroders has 1.5 percent of Xstrata and Standard Life
about 2 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Hoang, based
in  Singapore , said by phone that his company has about 5 million
pounds in Xstrata.  “Standard Life and Schroders deciding to vote against the
deal presents increased risk that the companies will have to
change the terms.,” Tim Huff, a director of mining research at
 RBC Capital Markets  in London, said by phone.  Shareholder Backing  Davis, 53, will become CEO of the group, while Glencore CEO
Ivan Glasenberg, 55, will be deputy CEO and president, under the
plan. The chairmanship and chief financial officer posts will
also go to Xstrata’s  John Bond  and Trevor Reid, with Glencore
CFO Steven Kalmin becoming Reid’s deputy. The board will include
Davis, Glasenberg and a further four non-executive directors
from each side of the deal.  “I’ve spoken to quite a few shareholders before we
announced the deal,” Davis said in a conference call with U.S.
analysts and investors. “The majority of the shareholders I
spoke to were clearly behind the logic of the deal.”  The Xstrata and Glencore boards are “committed to the
deal,” Davis said. “We think it’s structured well, we think
the governance is right, the terms are right.”  Ian Henderson , a fund manager at JPMorgan Asset Management
who helps oversee about $8 billion, including Xstrata shares,
said “we will think about it carefully” before deciding on
whether to accept Glencore’s offer.  ‘Marriage With Logic’  “I don’t think it’s an automatic tick in the box saying
this is a marriage made in heaven,” Henderson said in an
interview in  Cape Town . “But that being said, it’s a marriage
that has got a huge amount of logic.”  Glencore won’t be allowed to vote its 34.1 percent holding
in Xstrata on the merger, according to the U.K.’s takeover code,
putting the final decision into the hands of the minority
shareholders who control the remaining 65.9 percent. The Baar,
Switzerland-based trader has secured 37.2 percent of its own
shareholders’ votes for the deal, according to a statement.  “It’s round one and it’s going to be long and twisted
battle,” Michael Rawlinson of Liberum Capital Ltd., said in an
interview in Cape Town.  Nik Stanojevic, a London-based analyst at Brewin Dolphin
Ltd., which manages about 24 billion pounds, including Glencore
and Xstrata shares, said he expects the transaction to succeed
on terms not far from the current offer.  “There are no other offers out there, so if Glencore walks
away Xstrata’s share price will fall 15 to 20 percent,”
Stanojevic said. “The ratio could rise to 3, but I’d be
surprised if it reaches much higher than that. The premium
Glencore pays should be lowered by the fact its stake already
gives it significant control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  