-- Super Bowl Quant Firm Won’t Quit Day Job as Giants Win Puts End to Streak
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   S t a n t o n
-- 2012-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/super-bowl-quant-firm-won-t-quit-day-job-as-giants-win-puts-end-to-streak.html
The  New York Giants ’ Super Bowl
victory ended an eight-year winning streak by the quantitative
money management firm whose model for picking the team to bet on
went with the favored  New England Patriots .  Analytic Investors LLC  in  Los Angeles  predicted a Patriots
victory by more than the three-point spread set by oddsmakers.
It based the prediction on what it said was a historical
tendency by Super Bowl bettors to overvalue the team that was
more profitable to bet on during the regular season.  The Giants won 21-17 at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis
Feb. 5 for the National Football League championship.  Nothing’s wrong with the model, whose success rate over the
past eight years exceeds its long-run success rate, said  Matt
Robinson , a portfolio analyst for global and Japanese equities
at Analytic.  “If we were getting it 100 percent right we would probably
all quit our day jobs,” Robinson said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “The model will not in the long run identify the
team that’s going to win against the spread 90 percent of the
time.”  He said that the model instead identifies teams that have a
relatively higher probability of success. Betting against it
would be like betting tails on a coin that’s weighted to come up
heads three out of four times, Robinson said.  While disappointed in the outcome, Robinson said he was
consoled by the fact that the game was close in the end, with
the Giants’ victory at no point looking assured. A last-gasp
pass by the Patriots’  Tom Brady  fell in the end zone.  “We had a chance to tie the spread and push on the day if
Brady had completed that Hail Mary,” he said. “There was a
chance to pull it out.”  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Stanton in New York at 
 estanton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  