-- Swedish Bonds Retrace Gains Against Germany
-- B y   J o n a s   B e r g m a n
-- 2012-02-07T11:15:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/swedish-10-year-yields-approach-parity-vs-german-borrowing-costs.html
Swedish bonds underperformed benchmark
German debt as investors scaled back bets that the Nordic nation
is safer than the euro region’s biggest economy.  The difference between the two countries’ 10-year borrowing
costs crossed parity today, the first time since September that
 Sweden  has paid more than  Germany  to borrow for a decade. Sweden
paid as much as 64 basis points less than Germany for 10-year
loans in November. The Nordic country’s 3.5 percent note due
2022 yielded 1.87 percent as of 9:26 a.m. in  Stockholm , compared
with 1.86 percent for similar-maturity German bunds.  “In a period of diminishing concern over a collapse” in
the euro region, “there’s less need to hold Swedish bonds,
especially since they have been rather expensive to Germany,”
said Claes Maahlen, head of trading research at  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB  in Stockholm. Pressure will continue as long as
“risk appetite is good,” he said. Sweden’s borrowing costs are
unlikely to rise “dramatically” versus Germany, he said.  Risk appetite has returned to Europe, in part after the
 European Central Bank  unleashed 489 billion euros ($638 billion)
in three-year loans to banks in December, funds that were in
turn funneled into bonds sold by Europe’s most indebted nations
including Italy and  Spain .  European leaders have agreed to bring forward to July the
introduction of a 500 billion-euro permanent bailout fund as
euro-area members dispatch 150 billion euros to the
 International Monetary Fund .  Sweden Vs Italy  The crisis-management efforts have eased concern that the
turmoil will spread beyond  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  -- all
three relying on bailouts to stay afloat -- to Italy and Spain.  Sweden’s spread to Italy has narrowed to 374 basis points
from as wide as 564 basis points in November. Sweden’s Finance
Minister Anders Borg said on Jan. 27 that  Italy ’s Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  has been a “game-changer” in recognizing the need
for structural reforms.  Investors had flocked to AAA rated Sweden, where government
debt has shrunk every year since 2009 and the budget is in
surplus, to escape the fiscal crisis in the euro region. Sweden,
which has stayed out of the single currency since joining the
European Union in 1995, boasted the region’s best performing
debt maturities of more than 10 years in 2011.  Budget Surpluses  Sweden will post a 0.7 percent budget surplus of gross
domestic product this year as debt dwindles to 34.6 percent of
GDP, the European Commission said on Nov. 10. The average debt
load in the euro area will swell to 90.4 percent this year,
according to the commission.  Sweden’s economy, home to companies such as wireless
network maker Ericsson AB and appliance maker  Electrolux AB ,
will expand 1.4 percent in 2012, more than twice the 0.5 percent
rate in the euro area, according to the commission.  Signs that  Europe ’s crisis may be abating have also
prompted investors to scale back predictions for rate cuts in
Sweden. Interest rate futures show traders expect the central
bank to lower its benchmark rate to 1.15 percent by December
2012. At the end of last year, traders bet the rate would fall
as low as 0.75 percent.  Sweden’s central bank in December cut its rate by a
quarter-point to 1.75 percent, the first reduction since 2009,
to protect the economy from the fallout of the debt crisis. The
bank cut its forecast for economic growth this year to 1.3
percent and estimated growth will be 2.3 percent in 2013.  Still, investors may be underestimating the implication the
economic slowdown will have for bond issuance, Maahlen said.  Sweden’s debt agency said in October it will issue 35
billion kronor in nominal government debt this year, up from a
May forecast of 22 billion kronor. The agency issues a new
forecast on March 6.  “The supply bit hasn’t entered the mindset yet,” Maahlen
said. “In the second half we will see more supply in Sweden and
a raised borrowing need forecast from the debt office. It will
be significant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonas Bergman in Oslo at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  