-- Sweden Opens Door to Rules Forcing Banks to Curb Mortgage Rates
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-02-07T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/sweden-s-borg-says-pressure-is-needed-on-undertaxed-banks-1-.html
Sweden  may be looking into new bank
legislation that would prevent lenders from charging home owners
too much on their mortgages.  The plans don’t alter Sweden’s opposition to a European
Union financial transaction tax, which the government in
Stockholm argues would encroach on its fiscal sovereignty,
Finance Minister Anders Borg said.  “There could be other solutions,” Borg said in an
interview in Stockholm yesterday. “We would have to think about
it but there are obviously national solutions.”  Borg revealed yesterday growing irritation over bank
reluctance to pass lower  interest rates  on to borrowers. The
finance minister, whose government in November told lenders to
meet stricter  capital requirements  than those set by the Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, criticized Sweden’s biggest
banks for being “under-taxed” and for failing to share profits
with customers.  Banks have benefited from lower policy rates. Sweden’s
 central bank  lowered its benchmark rate a quarter of a
percentage point to 1.75 percent in December and signaled more
cuts may follow to protect the economy from the fallout of
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  Any bank levy would need to benefit households, Borg said.
That would be in contrast to a Europe-wide financial transaction
tax, which “would have a damaging effect on gross domestic
product,” he said. “It would increase interest margins,
particularly for households.”  ‘Disturbing’  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,  SEB (SEBA)  AB,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA)  and  Svenska
Handelsbanken AB (SHBA)  will be required to have common equity Tier 1
capital of at least 10 percent of their risk-weighted assets
from January 2013 and 12 percent in 2015, the government said on
Nov. 25. The Basel Committee’s equivalent requirement is a 7
percent ratio by 2019. European regulators have set a 9 percent
target for this year.  Nordea, the Nordic region’s largest lender, last month said
fourth-quarter profit rose 2.1 percent as higher income from
lending offset rising loan losses. The bank’s net interest
income, the difference between what the bank earns from lending
and what it pays on deposits, increased to 1.43 billion euros
($1.9 billion) in the quarter, from 1.37 billion euros, it said.  Sweden in 2008 created a stability fund obliging its banks
to contribute an annual fee equal to 0.036 percent of the value
of their liabilities, excluding some subordinated debt. The
government estimates the fund will swell to about 2.5 percent of
gross domestic product by 2023.  Borg yesterday told reporters he found it “disturbing”
that banks are able to generate high interest margins at the
expense of households.  “It’s time to put pressure on the banks,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  