-- Symantec Subjected to Extortion Attempt Over Source Code Said to Be Stolen
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-02-07T18:53:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/symantec-subjected-to-extortion-attempt-over-source-code-said-to-be-stolen.html
Symantec Corp ., the biggest maker of
computer-security software, said a person claiming to be part of
the Anonymous group tried to extort $50,000 to keep it from
posting stolen source code on the Internet.  “Symantec conducted an internal investigation into this
incident and also contacted  law enforcement  given the attempted
extortion and apparent theft of intellectual property,”
 Mountain View , California-based Symantec said in a statement.  A group calling itself  Lords of Dharmaraja , which claims an
affiliation with hacker group Anonymous, has been publicly
taunting Symantec for weeks in online forums, saying that it
stole programming code for several Symantec products and was
planning to leak it on the Web. Symantec said that code that was
already posted is real, and was stolen in a 2006 incursion into
its network, though most of it was for obsolete products,
limiting the potential damage from a disclosure.  One vulnerable program is pcAnywhere, which corporate
technical staff used to remotely control employees’ computers.
Symantec said it has issued patches, or fixes for known security
holes, for the product. Customers using older versions who don’t
apply the patches face a slightly increased security risk,
 Symantec  said. That means that hackers may find it easier to
break into corporate networks that use the program.  Source code is valuable because it is a blueprint for how a
company built a piece of software. Hackers who get their hands
on it can hunt for weaknesses.  Security software is constantly probed for programming
errors, and many legal, third-party programs exist to help
security researchers find those flaws, without the need to
examine source code, said Rich Mogull, chief executive officer
of Securosis, a Phoenix-based security-research firm. That
limits the source code’s usefulness in crafting attacks,
especially for older products whose errors have already been
fixed, Mogull said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  