-- Osborne Says Bonus Backlash Is Fueling Anti-Business Culture
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-02-08T09:53:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/u-k-parliament-to-debate-whether-all-banks-should-cut-bonuses.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  warned against allowing an “anti-business culture” to
take hold in Britain after lawmakers sparred over an opposition
 Labour Party  motion calling for all banks to curtail bonuses.  “A strong, free market economy must be built on rewards
for success,” Osborne told business leaders in London
yesterday. “There are those who are trying to create an anti-
business culture in Britain -- and we have to stop them. At
stake are not pay packages for a few but jobs and prosperity for
the many.”  As banks enter their bonus season, they’ve been on the
receiving end of an unprecedented public backlash that led  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  to waive his bonus, prompting concern among some
executives that Britain risks damaging its business-friendly
reputation. Yesterday’s motion in Parliament was defeated by 295
votes to 244.  Hester’s Jan. 29 announcement that he’d give up his
963,000-pound ($1.5 million) bonus followed mounting public and
political pressure over high pay for executives at a time of
austerity in the country as a whole. Two days later, his
predecessor,  Fred Goodwin , was stripped of the knighthood he’d
been awarded in 2004 for “services to banking” because of his
role in leading RBS into the world’s biggest bailout.  Reform Needed  “The future of the banking sector is bigger than the
individuals who have featured in the headlines of late,”
Labour’s business spokesman, Chuka Umunna, said as he opened the
debate in the House of Commons in  London . “We have to reform
the way the system works.” He said that “bonuses have
continued to be paid out as a matter of course” even though
“banks have made thousands redundant.”  RBS was bailed out by the government in 2008 and Labour
says that even banks that weren’t should show restraint because
they benefit from an implicit state guarantee. Labour is calling
for the reinstatement of a bank-bonus tax. Umunna’s motion
pointed to a fall in net lending to business and argued that a
culture of excessive bonuses has damaged the U.K. economy.  Hester said yesterday the political and media attention on
his bonus was “discomforting to say the least,” according to
an e-mail distributed to employees. “There is no doubt our
position in the spotlight makes the job harder.”  In an interview with BBC Radio today, Hester said RBS was
trying to defuse “the biggest time bomb in history” and that
it is essential the bank is able to recruit the best people for
the task.  Wealth Creation  While he had “great sympathy and understanding” for
people concerned about rewards in the banking industry, “we
would make a mistake as a society if we forget how wealth is
generated and how successful people are motivated,” he said.  Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Robert Diamond , Britain’s top-paid bank CEO,
is the next executive likely to face scrutiny. Diamond was
awarded a 6.5 million-pound bonus for 2010 and a further 2.25
million pounds depending on the lender’s performance.  Unlike RBS and  Lloyds (LLOY) , where the U.K. taxpayer is also the
biggest shareholder, the government has no stakes in Barclays,
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  or  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , making it difficult
for the state to exert bonus restrictions.  Labour leader  Ed Miliband  argued in a speech last week that 
even though Barclays and HSBC weren’t bailed out, they’re still 
benefiting from unspoken government backing and should behave 
accordingly. He said voters expect them to exhibit restraint in 
difficult economic times.  The furore over top pay also led Network Rail CEO David Higgins and his fellow directors to waive their bonuses this
week. The company runs the U.K.’s railway lines.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  