-- U.S. Consumer Credit Climbed by $19.3B in Dec.
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-07T20:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/u-s-consumer-credit-climbed-by-19-3b-in-dec-.html
Consumer borrowing  in the U.S. rose
more than forecast in December, driven by demand for auto and
student loans.  Credit increased by $19.3 billion to $2.5 trillion, Federal
Reserve figures showed today in Washington. The gain topped the
$7 billion median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News and followed a $20.4 billion advance the prior month.  Consumers “are willing to take on this debt because there
is some increasing degree of confidence in the economy,” said
 Ken Mayland , president of ClearView Economics LLC in  Pepper
Pike ,  Ohio , who projected credit would climb by $15 billion, the
highest in the Bloomberg survey. “Consumers over the past
several years have done a pretty good job of repairing their
balance sheets.”  An improving job market may be giving households the
courage to take on more debt in order to sustain spending, which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. At the same time,
increasing dependence on credit may be an indication the gains
in employment have yet to push wages high enough to single-
handedly give consumers the means to keep shopping.  The  median forecast  was based on a survey of 37 economists.
Estimates ranged from a decrease of $8 billion to an increase of
$15 billion.  The back-to-back increase at the end of 2011 was the
biggest since October-November 2001.  Auto, School Lending  Non-revolving debt , including educational and auto loans
increased by $16.6 billion in December, the biggest gain since
November 2001, today’s report showed. The Fed’s report doesn’t
track debt secured by real estate, such as home equity lines of
credit.  Industrywide sales of cars and light trucks totaled 12.8
million for all of 2011, a 10 percent increase from 2010,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  Demand for credit may keep growing as demand keeps
improving.  Auto sales  climbed to a 14.1 million annual rate last
month, according to industry data. Excluding a surge in August
2009 that reflected the government’s “cash-for-clunkers”
program, it was the strongest month since May 2008.  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the largest
automakers by U.S. sales, forecast industrywide deliveries will
rise to as much as 14 million in 2012, including medium- and
heavy-duty trucks.  Revolving debt , which includes credit cards, climbed by
$2.76 billion, according to the Fed’s statistics.  Credit Cards  MasterCard Inc. , the world’s second-biggest payments
network, last week said fourth-quarter profit climbed 24 percent
as spending with credit and debit cards increased. Debit-card
purchases increased 18 percent from the same time a year
earlier, while those on credit cards rose 6.6 percent. Shares of
the Purchase, New York-based company surged 66 percent in 2011,
the fourth-best performer in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Employers added 243,000 workers to payrolls in January,
exceeding all forecasts of economist surveyed by Bloomberg, and
the jobless rate unexpectedly dropped to a three-year low of 8.3
percent, figures from the Labor Department showed last week.  A report from the Labor Department today showed there were
almost four unemployed Americans vying for each job vacancy in
December, more than twice the number before the recession began
in December 2007. That may explain why wages have yet to pick
up, prompting households to borrow.  Hourly earnings were up 1.9 percent in January from the
same month in 2011 on average, the smallest year-over-year gain
since April, the Labor Department reported last week. For
production workers, the 1.5 percent increase was the smallest in
records going back to 1965.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  