-- U.S. Seeks ‘Plan B’ to End Syria Violence After UN Failure
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 2012-02-07T15:07:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/u-s-seeks-plan-b-to-end-syrian-violence-after-un-fails-to-act.html
The U.S. and allies are seeking ways
to increase pressure on Syrian leader Bashar al-Assad after
Russian and Chinese vetoes blocked efforts at the  United Nations
Security Council  to support a political transition.  “We’re going to have to take measures outside the UN to
strengthen and deepen and broaden the international community
pressure on Assad,” State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will work with allies to
create an international support group for Assad’s opposition and
to tighten sanctions against  Syria , Nuland said. Other steps
include pushing Syria’s trade partners to drop business with the
regime and halt weapons shipments in particular, she said.
Further action at the UN is also on the table, according to UN
diplomats who weren’t authorized to comment publicly.  “There will be a ‘Plan B,’” Aaron  David Miller  of the
Wilson Center, a Washington policy group, said in a telephone
interview. “The question is whether it will work and how
effective the strategy will be.”  In Syria, Assad met today with Russian Foreign Minister
Sergei Lavrov and the head of Russia’s Foreign Intelligence
Service, Mikhail Fradkov.  ‘Readiness to Cooperate’  The Syrian leader, who has rejected calls to step down,
expressed “readiness to cooperate” on talks with opposition
groups, Lavrov said, according to a pool report from the Russian
state news service Itar-Tass. Assad asked the Russians to
“bring influence to bear on opposition groups which aren’t
engaging in dialog yet,” according to the report. There was no
indication that Assad is prepared to step aside, handing power
to a deputy, as has been called for under the Arab League’s
initiative.  Syria has rejected an Arab League plan for Assad to
transfer power to a deputy, who would then begin talks with the
opposition to form a unity government within two months. On Feb.
4,  Russia  and  China  vetoed the Security Council resolution on
Syria, citing concern that it called for regime change.  As the U.S. and allies consider options, they can’t draw on
methods used to help other Arab Spring countries in transition,
such as  Libya  and Yemen, said Miller, a Mideast peace negotiator
in the Clinton administration. The question is how quickly the
international community can unite behind a common plan of
action, Miller and other analysts said.  Expectations Diminished  Steven Heydemann, the special adviser for Middle East
Initiatives at the United States Institute for Peace, a non-
partisan Washington policy group funded by Congress, said delays
will result in more violence. “Without a Plan B, it does seem a
cascade of dangerous events is more likely to unfold,” he said
in a telephone interview.  While Heydemann said expectations of a political settlement
to the violence in Syria are now “seriously diminished,” White
House spokesman  Jay Carney  said yesterday that the
administration believes it’s still possible.  “There remains an opportunity for that to be achieved, for
that transition to democracy to take place,” Carney said at a
briefing. “We take no options off the table, but our focus is
on using our diplomatic, economic and other means to help bring
about and usher in a democratic transition.”  The U.S. suspended embassy operations in Damascus and
recalled Ambassador Robert Ford and the rest of the American
staff, Nuland said. The Polish embassy in Damascus will
represent U.S. interests in the country.  Democratic Future  Ford “will continue to maintain the contacts that he has
broadly across Syrian society, but particularly with Syrian
opposition,” Nuland said yesterday. He will work with Clinton’s
special adviser, Fred Hof, who acts as a liaison to the Syrian
opposition outside the country.  Their goal will be to “make sure that the Syrian people
know that we stand with them and their desire for a democratic
future,” Nuland said.  The Obama administration doesn’t have the options it had to
help Libya and Yemen wrestle with their transitions, Miller
said.  In Libya, a UN resolution supported the use of “all
necessary measures” to help Libyan rebels prevail over forces
loyal to Colonel  Muammar Qaddafi .  In Yemen, a plan assembled by the Gulf Cooperation Council,
or GCC, pressured President Ali Abdullah Saleh eventually to
step down from power.  In Syria, “the military option without a UN resolution
seems to me to be almost inconceivable,” said Miller, “and
there is no GCC equivalent for Syria.”  Ambassadors Recalled  Gulf Arab countries decided to withdraw their ambassadors
from Damascus and expel Syrian ambassadors from their capitals
in response to the “massacre” against the country’s people by
forces loyal to Assad, the GCC said in an e-mailed statement
today.  Nuland said yesterday that a number of foreign ministers
are conferring about the formation of a “Friends of a
Democratic Syria” group that backs the  Arab League  plan and
wants to provide humanitarian and political support.  Brian Katulis, an analyst with the Center for American
Progress, a Washington policy group, said the U.S. needs a
coalition.  “Our hand is not that strong until there’s an organized
contact group,” Katulis said in a telephone interview. The
failure of the UN resolution means “the pressure will be on to
do something.” The danger is that “‘you can have the formation
of this group, but if they can’t work together to create
specific actions, it might not be able to accomplish much,” he
said.  Seeking Intervention  The Syrian National Council, the leading opposition
umbrella group, wants a U.S.-led coalition to intervene
directly.  “We need the U.S. to build a coalition with  France ,
 Germany , the U.K. to intervene somehow and stop the massacres
and atrocities that are happening right now,” said Ausama
Monajed, adviser to SNC President Burhan Ghalioun.  Monajed, speaking on the telephone from  London , said the
SNC had waited to see if the UN would take action. “Our
skepticism grew; there is no hope,” Monajed said of the UN
efforts. He said the SNC is consulting with the U.S.,  Turkey  and
others about next steps.  “It’s all about assessing now what our options are and how
to move forward,” he said.  UN Plans  Arab and European nations haven’t given up on their Arab
League peace plan on Syria. They may take the plan to the
General Assembly, seeking to override the  Security Council  and
show up Russia in the 193-member body, UN diplomats said,
speaking on condition of anonymity because the talks are in a
preliminary phase.  Russia and China vetoed the council resolution that backed
an Arab League plan to “facilitate” a political transition in
Syria. Thirteen of the council’s 15 members voted in favor of
the proposal by Western and Arab countries.  “There is a broad international support for the Arab
League and we have to see how we can galvanize that,” Peter Wittig, Germany’s ambassador to the UN, told reporters. “We
have to examine the possibility to mobilize the GA.”  The General Assembly can overrule the Security Council
through a mechanism known as Resolution 377, or Uniting for
Peace. It was passed in 1950 during the  Korean War  to circumvent
the  Soviet Union  blocking action to protect  South Korea .  It requires a two-thirds majority in the General Assembly
to override the Security Council and its veto-wielding members
and can be used when the 15-member decision-making body “fails
to exercise its primary responsibility for the maintenance of
international peace and security.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  