-- U.S. WTO Case Against China ‘Major Reason’ for Citibank Nod
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-02-07T19:07:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/u-s-wto-case-against-china-major-reason-for-citibank-card-nod.html
A World Trade Organization probe into
the legality of Chinese rules on foreign companies issuing
credit cards is a “major reason”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  was given
permission to do so, said Stuart Eizenstat, former deputy
Treasury secretary under President  Bill Clinton .  New York-based Citigroup announced yesterday that it will
become the second foreign bank, and the first western one,
allowed to issue its own credit card in  China . The news came
about 10 months after the WTO said it would investigate a U.S.
complaint about Chinese curbs on credit-card payment processing.  China requires foreign banks to “co-brand” with Chinese
operators to issue credit cards in yuan and to execute payments
through China UnionPay Data Co. The U.S. says the rules
contravene a pledge the world’s most populous nation made when
it joined the Geneva-based WTO in 2001 to open its debit and
credit-card markets to foreign processors by the end of 2006.  “I have no doubt that the WTO case is a major reason why
China has issued this license,” Eizenstat, a partner with the
Covington & Burling law firm in  Washington  who was also
President  Jimmy Carter ’s chief domestic policy adviser, said in
an e-mailed response to questions. “By this action, they are
trying to take the ‘sting’ out of any adverse ruling.”  Nkenge Harmon, a spokeswoman at the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office in Washington, said today that China’s
decision on Citibank “has no bearing on the U.S. WTO claims.”  UnionPay’s Role  Transactions made on Citibank’s credit cards will still be
processed through Beijing-based UnionPay rather than U.S.
companies such as  Visa Inc. ,  American Express Co. ,  MasterCard
Inc. ,  Discover Financial Services  and  First Data Corp.   A UnionPay spokesman who declined to be identified, citing
company policy, would not comment. Nobody at the China Banking
Regulatory Commission’s press Office in Beijing was immediately
available to comment after office hours.  Stephen Thomas, a Citibank spokesman in  Shanghai , said the
company “is in a preparatory phase having received regulatory
approval and will reveal more details about our China cards
business in due course.” He declined to comment when asked
about the processing of transactions or say what conditions
Citibank accepted to be permitted to issue credit cards.  Xi Visits U.S.  Citibank’s announcement comes a week before Vice President
Xi Jinping, who is set to become the next general secretary of
the Chinese Communist Party later this year and to succeed  Hu Jintao  as president in March 2013, visits the U.S.  Credit cards are becoming more popular among China’s 1.3
billion people as rising incomes stoke  consumer spending .
Chinese banks issued 268 million credit cards as of Sept. 30, up
20 percent from a year earlier, according to the central bank.  Bank of East Asia Ltd. ,  Hong Kong ’s third-largest lender,
was the first non-mainland issuer of credit cards in 2008.
Transactions on the bank’s cards are also processed through
UnionPay. Hong Kong is a special administrative region of China.  The decision to permit  Citigroup  to issue its own credit
card “is a positive step to open China’s internal market for
financial services, and will be another step toward their
integration into the global market,” Eizenstat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  