-- U.S. to Boost Funding for Alzheimer’s Research by $50 Million This Year
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-02-07T22:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/u-s-to-boost-funding-for-alzheimer-s-research-by-50-million.html
The Obama administration is boosting
funding for Alzheimer’s research by $50 million this year to
further investigate the genetic underpinnings of the disease and
test drugs that may arrest its development.  About 5.1 million Americans suffer from the condition and
caseloads are expected to double by 2050, according to the U.S.
 Department of Health and Human Services . The cause of the
degenerative condition is unknown and there is no cure.  Patient advocacy groups have intensified lobbying efforts
in the last two years, arguing that federal research efforts are
underfunded and the disease poses a long-term economic threat,
said George Vradenburg, chairman of UsAgainstAlzheimers, a
Washington nonprofit.  “If you look at it over the next 10 years, the aggregate
cost is about $2 trillion -- which in fact is about the amount
we’re supposed to be trying to reduce our operating deficit
by,” Vradenburg said. “It is of that kind of scale.”  Medicare and Medicaid, the U.S. health programs for the
elderly and the poor, spend about $130 billion combined each
year treating Alzheimer’s patients, Vradenburg said.  The  National Institutes of Health , the largest source of
biomedical research funding in the world, expected to spend
about $450 million on Alzheimer’s research this year before
today’s announcement. The agency will spend about $3.1 billion
on HIV/AIDS research this year and $5.8 billion on cancer.  Critical Challenge  Alzheimer’s “has quickly become one of our nation’s most
critical health challenges,” Health and Human Services
Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said at an event in Washington today
announcing the new funding.  About half of the $50 million will be used to sequence the
genomes of people with Alzheimer’s to try to identify genes and
gene changes connected to the disease, said Richard Hodes,
director of the National Institute of Aging in Bethesda,
 Maryland , the arm of NIH that directs Alzheimer’s research. The
rest will be dedicated to the “most meritorious” Alzheimer’s
projects at NIH’s 32 institutes, Hodes said by phone.  Vradenburg, whose wife’s mother died of Alzheimer’s,
founded his organization in the fall of 2010 and has since
joined with Eric Hall, president and CEO of another advocacy
group, Alzheimer’s Foundation of America, to create Leaders
Engaged in  Alzheimer’s Disease , an  umbrella organization .  The groups produced a report last May that criticized
funding for the National Institute of Aging as “miniscule and
declining” and called for an increase of $300 million per year,
to $1.4 billion, for the office.  National Plan  President  Barack Obama  signed a law in January 2011 that
creates a national plan to address Alzheimer’s. Vrandenburg and
Hall sit on a board advising Sebelius’ department on the plan,
which will be completed in May, Vrandenburg said.  Advocacy efforts for Alzheimer’s patients haven’t
previously been as robust as those for cancer and AIDS patients
because people with dementia often aren’t able to speak for
themselves, Hall said.  Cancer, for example, “has survivors -- the people with the
disease are able to raise their voice and engage,” he said.
“Alzheimer’s disease is rather unique in that yes, some folks
with Alzheimer’s in the early stage are able to speak. But
generally they lose that ability; they’re not able to rally, if
you will.”  Research breakthroughs are also driving the increased
funding, Vradenburg said.  Suspect Protein  Scientists sponsored by NIH reported on Feb. 2 that for the
first time they were able to track a protein associated with
Alzheimer’s, called tau, as it spread through the brains of
mice, destroying neurons. That and other recent developments
have inspired confidence that new treatments may be found, said
 Francis Collins , director of the NIH.  Much of the new research may examine ways to prevent or
slow the onset of Alzheimer’s, rather than treatments once it is
established, Hodes said.  “The strong sense is that failure to make important in-
roads to date is at least in part due to the fact treatment has
been directed at established disease,” Hodes said.  Obama plans to ask for an extra $80 million for Alzheimer’s
research in his fiscal 2013 budget, to be released next week,
Sebelius said. Sebelius’ department also plans to spend $26
million this year for Alzheimer’s efforts unrelated to research,
such as support for patient families.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in  Washington  at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  