-- UBS May Move Proprietary Stock Trading to Asset Management
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-02-07T13:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/ubs-may-move-proprietary-stock-trading-desk-to-asset-management.html
UBS AG ,  Switzerland ’s biggest lender,
may move its proprietary stock-trading business to its asset-
management division, Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil said.  The move would affect about 50 people working at a business
that produced revenue of $65 million in the fourth quarter,
Naratil said in an interview in Zurich today. If the plan goes
ahead, UBS would give the unit seed money and then seek outside
investors, he said.  “We do plan to exit that business at the investment
bank,” Naratil said. “However, we do think that the strategies
that the proprietary equity team pursues would actually be
attractive to asset-management clients.”  UBS, which is cutting risk-taking at the investment bank to
focus on  wealth management , told investors in November that it’s
evaluating options for the equities prop trading unit. The
business may be moved in the “coming quarters,” Naratil told
analysts earlier today.  The Zurich-based bank has to close its proprietary trading
operations in the U.S. because of the so-called Volcker rule,
while elsewhere it doesn’t fit with UBS’s strategy even though
it’s a “very good profitable business for us,” he said.  “If we’re successful in getting this into global asset
management, we think there’s a great way to show that we can use
a proprietary trading strategy in a way that benefits clients,”
Naratil said. “And over time, we won’t have our money
involved.”  Dillon Read  The unit would be placed within the existing alternative
and quantitative business of asset management, he said. That
would help to avoid mistakes made in 2005 when the company moved
its fixed-income proprietary trading team into an internal hedge
fund, called Dillon Read Capital Management LLC, within the
asset-management, he added.  While the goal back then was to set up funds in which
third-party investors could participate, the investment bank
started replicating the strategies pursued by DRCM, including
trading in U.S. mortgage securities and collateralized debt
obligations. The oversight of DRCM, led by former head of the
investment bank John Costas, was “relatively complex,” which
contributed to the bank’s losses as the subprime-crisis
unfolded, UBS said in a 2008 report to shareholders.  Subprime-related problems first surfaced in March 2007, as
DRCM traders informed UBS of about $50 million in writedowns.
Losses at the hedge fund company grew to 150 million Swiss
francs ($162 million) in the first quarter of that year, and in
May UBS said it would shut DRCM down.  UBS’s total writedowns and losses from the credit crisis
surpassed $57 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  