-- UBS Posts 76% Drop in Quarterly Profit
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-02-07T14:44:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/ubs-reports-76-drop-in-quarterly-profit-investment-bank-loss.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank,
said fourth-quarter profit dropped 76 percent after its
investment bank reported a second consecutive quarterly loss.  Net income fell to 393 million Swiss francs ($427 million)
from 1.66 billion francs in the year-earlier period, the Zurich-
based bank said in a statement today. Earnings missed the 721
million-franc average estimate of eight analysts  surveyed  by
Bloomberg over the past four weeks.  Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti , who took over from
Oswald Gruebel following the discovery of a $2.3 billion loss
from unauthorized trading in September, is shrinking the
investment bank as stricter  capital requirements  and the
European sovereign debt crisis erode profitability. The bank
said concerns about the crisis and the global economic outlook
are “likely” to weigh on revenues this quarter as well.  “They basically gave a profit warning for the first
quarter,” said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets, who has a “reduce” rating on UBS. “I don’t
see how the bank can come out of the strategic dilemma of not
having enough revenues to sustain staff at the investment
bank.”  Cash Dividend  UBS fell as much as 2.7 percent, and was 18 centimes, or
1.4 percent, lower at 13.03 francs by 2:51 p.m. in Zurich,
trimming its gain  this year  to 17 percent. That compares with an
18 percent increase in the 43-company  Bloomberg Europe Banks and
Financial Services Index  in 2012 and a 13 percent  gain  at Credit
Suisse Group AG.  UBS reiterated plans for a  dividend  of 10 centimes a share
for 2011, its first cash payout since 2006.  Pretax profit at the  wealth management  unit rose 2 percent
to 471 million francs from a year earlier, while wealth
management Americas swung to a profit of 114 million francs from
a loss of 32 million francs. The two units reported net new
money of 5 billion francs for the quarter. Earnings at the
retail and corporate unit gained 6.5 percent to 412 million
francs, while asset management posted a 20 percent decline in
profit to 118 million francs. The investment bank had a pretax
loss of 256 million francs.  “Traditional improvements in first quarter activity levels
and trading volumes may fail to materialize fully, which would
weigh on overall results for the coming quarter, most notably in
the investment bank,” Ermotti and Chairman  Kaspar Villiger  said
in a letter to shareholders today.  Deutsche Bank  Revenue at the investment bank slumped 36 percent to 1.8
billion francs from the year-earlier period, while operating
expenses declined 4.4 percent to 1.99 billion francs.  Deutsche Bank AG ,  Germany ’s biggest bank, last week said
fourth-quarter profit dropped 76 percent as its investment bank
posted a 422 million-euro ($554 million) pretax loss. Credit
Suisse, which reports earnings on Feb. 9, may say profit fell 53
percent to 396 million francs in the quarter, according to the
mean estimate of nine  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg, who also
forecast a loss at the securities unit.  UBS intends to reduce risk-weighted assets at the
investment bank, run by 44-year-old Carsten Kengeter, by 145
billion francs from 300 billion francs by 2016, under Basel III
rules. The company reduced risk-weighted assets by about 20
billion francs in the fourth quarter, while the investment bank
cut assets by about 26 billion francs, it said.  Management Change  The bank lowered its profitability target in November to a
return on equity of between 12 percent and 17 percent starting
in 2013, compared with a previous goal of 15 percent to 20
percent. UBS’s return on equity in 2011 was 8.6 percent.  The shift in strategy coincides with another round of
 management  upheaval at UBS, which was ravaged by more than $57
billion of credit-related losses during the financial crisis of
2008. Ermotti, 51, who joined UBS in April, became CEO after the
departure of Gruebel, 68. Villiger, 71, is leaving in 2012, a
year earlier than planned, to make way for former Bundesbank
President  Axel Weber , 54, in the chairman role.  Since Ermotti took over, the co-heads of the equities unit,
Francois Gouws and Yassine Bouhara, left, as did Chief Risk
Officer Maureen Miskovic, who was at UBS for less than a year.  Kweku Adoboli, the former employee accused of causing the
trading loss, pleaded not guilty to fraud and false accounting
last week and was denied bail while he awaits a trial in early
September. The U.K. and Swiss finance regulators also said last
week that they have begun formal enforcement actions against UBS
over the risk-management processes at its investment bank.  Bonuses Slashed  UBS cut the 2011 bonus pool, including pay deferred into
future years, by 40 percent to 2.57 billion francs from 4.25
billion francs for 2010, the bank said. About 707 million francs
of the pool is earmarked to be deferred.  Variable compensation at the investment bank is being
reduced 60 percent, Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil said.
Investment-banking chief Kengeter volunteered to waive any
variable pay entitlement, according to Ermotti.  UBS announced plans last year to cut about 3,500 jobs to
help reduce annual costs by 2 billion francs by the end of 2013.
That program is “on track,” Ermotti said today. UBS would trim
costs further if market conditions don’t improve, he said.  “We must focus on strategic changes which go to the heart
of our organizational design and structure,” Ermotti said at a
press conference in Zurich. “Consistently improving efficiency
has to become part of our corporate DNA. And we are working on
the next phase, which will reshape our cost base in the years to
come.”  UBS’s outlook is “realistic” rather than “negative,”
Ermotti said, and the bank is prepared to take advantage of the
situation should markets improve.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  