-- TUI Travel Loss Widens on North African Turmoil
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-02-07T09:27:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/tui-travel-quarterly-loss-widens-on-turmoil-in-north-africa-1-.html
TUI Travel Plc ,  Europe ’s largest tour
operator, said it won business from competitors in January as
customers booked all-inclusive holidays and specialty packages
such as cruises to the Antarctic.  U.K. winter trading improved and booking levels were
“flat” during January for summer holidays, the Crawley,
England-based company  said  in a statement. That compares with a
14 percent market decline, as reported by GFK Ascent, TUI said.  TUI was helped by demand for specialty packages, which
besides trips to the poles can include yachting holidays and
family vacations, it said. The company is expanding its online
business and offering more varied vacations to combat weakness
in traditional holidays. Internet bookings rose last month.  “This is a robust statement,”  Greg Johnson  and other
analysts at Shore Capital in Liverpool wrote today in an e-mail.  TUI Travel’s shares rose as much as 2 percent to 210.7
pence. They traded down 0.8 percent at 204.9 pence at 9:04 a.m.
in  London , valuing the company at 2.3 billion pounds.  Like rivals, TUI has suffered from political turmoil in
North Africa, which blunted demand for trips there. The
company’s underlying operating loss increased to 109 million
pounds ($172 million) in the three months through Dec. 31 from
86 million pounds a year earlier. Revenue rose 4.7 percent to
2.85 billion pounds, TUI said in the statement.  No Spending Surprises  In addition to disruption in the  Middle East  and North
Africa, travel companies have been buffeted by a weak economic
climate in Europe and rising input costs.  Thomas Cook Group Plc ,
a London-based rival of TUI, is selling assets including office
buildings in the Netherlands to cut debt, while scaling back its
plane fleet. Its first-quarter results are due tomorrow.  TUI Travel is “clearly a beneficiary of the uncertain
environment our competitor is operating in,” Chief Executive
Officer Peter Long said today in a conference call, referring to
 Thomas Cook .  The company said that 55 percent of its bookings for this
year so far were for all-inclusive holidays. Its First Choice
unit now only offers holidays where food, drink and
accommodation are grouped within the price.  “It gives our customers value and certainty” about the
amount they will spend on their vacations, Long said.  Adventure Savings  Bookings for so-called differentiated-product holidays,
such as cruises, family breaks and yachting vacations, amounted
for 64 percent of U.K. summer bookings, according to TUI.  The company is seeking to cut costs by 107 million pounds
over the next three years, with savings being identified in the
French, German and U.K. businesses, in the adventure-holiday
unit and at airlines Jet4you and Corsair, Long said on a
conference call in December.  “It is a challenging overall environment,” Long said
today. “I’m heartened our demand in the late booking period for
winter has been very strong.” The company’s performance remains
in line with its forecasts, he said.  The tour operator, which is majority owned by  Germany ’s  TUI
AG (TUI1) , reported full-year profit that beat estimates in December.
It is “largely hedged” against currency swings and jet fuel
price changes for the current financial year, it said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  