-- Hungary Is Ready to Compromise or Fight, Premier Orban Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-07T17:07:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/hungary-is-ready-to-compromise-or-fight-premier-orban-says-1-.html
Hungary’s government is ready to
fight for the country’s interests and also to compromise if
necessary, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said as his Cabinet
worked to revive international talks on a bailout.  Orban is committed to the flat personal income tax, which
the  International Monetary Fund  has criticized for hurting
economic growth, he said in his state-of-the-nation address in
Budapest today. Orban said he is also “decided” on ensuring
fiscal discipline.  “We are ready to fight and to reach an agreement in the
interest of the country,” Orban said. “For us, both fighting
and coming to an agreement are a means, not an end.”  Hungary wants to revive talks with the IMF and the European
Union after negotiations broke down in December over Orban’s
refusal to change a central bank law that the institutions said
may undermine monetary-policy independence.  The EU has threatened a lawsuit against Hungary because of
the legislation and two others, refusing to restart talks. The
IMF has said Orban needs to show “tangible steps” to engage on
all policy issues before aid talks can officially start.  The forint strengthened 0.7 percent to 290.22 per euro at
5:31 p.m. in Budapest. The currency has been the best-performing
in the world in the past month, rallying after Orban reversed
course on Jan. 5 by saying he was ready to compromise for a
“quick” deal with the EU and the IMF.  Age Limit  Hungary is ready to accept a European Commission demand
that an age-limit for judges should be scrapped, to settle
another dispute that has obstructed talks on a bailout
agreement, news website Origo reported today, citing a letter
the government sent to the EU.  Hungary is also willing to accept an EU request that the
country’s data-protection authority be strengthened, though it
won’t reinstate a former official as data protection ombudsman,
the news website said, referring to a third issue with the EU.  Hungary may be challenged to meet its debt payments this
year if the euro crisis worsens and the economy slips into a
recession, the IMF said on Jan. 25, underscoring the need for a
financial-safety net.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  