-- Turkey Lira Gains Past 200-Day Average on Greek Austerity Deal Speculation
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-07T09:59:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/turkey-lira-gains-past-200-day-average-on-greek-austerity-deal-speculation.html
The lira today surpassed a key
threshold level which some traders interepret as a “buy”
signal on speculation  Greece  may reach an agreement relating to
additional austerity measures.  The Turkish currency appreciated as much as 0.5 percent to
1.7503 per dollar, piercing its 200-day moving-day average of
1.7521, a key technical level. Crossing this threshold and
remaining above it is an indication the rally is sustainable.
The lira traded at 1.7579 as of 1:52 p.m. in Istanbul, weaker
than that level.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  plans to convene the
nation’s political leaders to seek consensus on the cuts
required for a bailout as unions called a strike to protest and
European leaders pressed for answers. While Papademos and the
party chiefs have agreed to make further cuts this year equal to
1.5 percent of gross domestic product, they have yet to close
gaps over measures demanded by creditors for a 130 billion-euro
($171 billion) rescue.  “If there is an agreement in Greece, we believe that
1.7150 will enter the target range,” Fatih Keresteci, a
strategist at HSBC Bank AS in Istanbul, said in an e-mail to
investors today.  Option traders are turning less bearish on the lira,
reducing the premium to sell the currency to 3.3 percentage
points more than the contracts to buy it, down from a year-high
of 6.8 percentage points on Sept. 26, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Lower cost of selling the currency means fewer
investors believe the lira will depreciate.  There is a 67 percent chance the lira will strengthen to
1.72 per dollar in the next three months, according to implied
probability calculated from currency options.  Lira Recovers  The lira slumped 18 percent in the biggest decline
worldwide and yields soared 390 basis points last year on
concern that the debt crisis would ignite a recession in  Europe ,
which buys roughly half of Turkish exports, and widen further
the country’s  current-account deficit .  Turkey ’s currency has strengthened 8 percent this year in
the third biggest appreciation among  emerging markets  in Europe,
 Africa  and the  Middle East . The lira was bid higher in January
after the U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
 interest rates  will remain exceptionally low for longer and
hinted at the third round of quantitative easing.  Yields  on benchmark two-year Turkish bonds fell 6 basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 9.35 percent, according to
a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  