-- BSG Role in Guinea’s Vale Venture Faces State Review
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2012-02-08T12:42:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/vale-faces-sanction-over-guinea-license-minister-says.html
(Corrects to show that BSG is the subject of the review in
the first and second paragraphs. The story was originally
published yesterday.)   BSG Resources Ltd. didn’t follow the
law while managing an iron-ore mining license in  Guinea , which
the company plans to mine in a venture with  Vale SA , and the
permit will now be reviewed and may be canceled depending on the
findings of a commission, Mines Minister Mohamed Lamine Fofana
said.  The license will be probed by the commission in the West
African nation that will decide on possible sanctions, Fofana
said in an interview at the Investing in African Mining Indaba
conference in  Cape Town  today. A way for Vale to keep its stake
could be found as BSG is the subject of the review, he said
separately today.  BSG “didn’t follow the law,” Fofana said. “If you want
to bring someone in you have to follow the law. Their treatment
will depend on the results of the review. If the results show
that the infringement merits cancellation, that will happen, if
not, it won’t.”  Vale  bought the Simandou North Blocks 1 and 2, previously
owned by  Rio Tinto  Plc, and the Zogota project in Simandou South
for $2.5 billion in April 2010. The government in 2008 ordered
Rio Tinto to hand Simandou North over to BSG, which is
controlled by Israeli businessman Beny Steinmetz.  Vale fell for the first time in eight days, dropping 0.7
percent to 43.62 reais by 2:29 p.m. in  Sao Paulo .  Vale didn’t have an immediate comment, an official in  Rio
de Janeiro  said when contacted by Bloomberg News today,
declining to be named in line with the company’s policy.  Guinea’s civilian administration, which replaced a military
junta after elections in November 2010, has reviewed its mining
code and is reassessing contracts to ensure it draws more
benefit from its mineral assets.  Investors ‘Protected’  The contract reviews will initially be conducted by “high
ranking local staff” supported by international lawyers to
protect Guinea from claims that it is conducting an asset grab,
before being finalized by the ministerial commission, Fofana
said. “The interests of the investor will be protected,” he
said.  The world’s top bauxite exporter will also lower its tax
and royalty regime for miners of the aluminum ingredient to
remain internationally competitive, Fofana said.  “Guinea is fighting very hard competition” and is far
from the market in  Asia , Fofana said. Guinea will “give a bonus
to investors who are prepared to invest in bauxite” processing,
he said, adding that he is studying the competitive advantage
nations such as  China ,  India ,  Indonesia  and  Australia  have.  Guinea needs total investments worth $45 billion to develop
its iron-ore industry and $20 billion in bauxite mines, Fofana
said. The amount refers to both mining assets and associated
infrastructure, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  