-- Venezuelan Consumer Prices Said to Rise 1.5% in January
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-02-07T17:31:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/venezuelan-consumer-prices-said-to-rise-1-5-in-january.html
Venezuela ’s monthly  consumer price
inflation  slowed to 1.5 percent in January from 1.8 percent in
December, a government official, who isn’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter, said today.  The January figure is less than the 1.8 percent  median
forecast  of eight economists in a Bloomberg survey. The central
bank is expected to release its January consumer price report
later today. Prices rose 27.6 percent in 2011, the most among 78
economies tracked by Bloomberg.  While President  Hugo Chavez ’s government raised spending in
January from a year earlier, the central bank and finance
ministry reduced inflationary pressures by draining liquidity
from the economy, said  Francisco Rodriguez , an economist at Bank
of America Corp. in  New York . The bank increased sales of
dollars to importers through the currency market while the
ministry began selling bonds in the local market.  “The government did quite a bit to drain some liquidity
from the market in January,” said Rodriguez, who forecasts
annual inflation will accelerate to 35 percent in 2012.  Government spending rose 25 percent in real terms in
January from the same month in 2011, Rodriguez said.  A law being prepared by the government to regulate consumer
prices may have also persuaded some companies to not raise
prices in January, while the cost of 19 categories of personal
care and cleaning products were frozen late last year.  ‘Price Controls’  “There are quite a few firms who, because they don’t know
what will happen with price controls, don’t want to enact price
increases they would normally carry out,” Rodriguez said.  The price law, designed to track thousands of consumer
goods, may be milder than expected in order to avoid shortages
ahead of presidential elections in October, he said.  During a Feb. 2 speech, Chavez, the 57-year-old socialist
leader who has led Venezuela since 1999, threatened to
nationalize any firms that raise prices beyond those stipulated
in the law.  The regulations may affect companies including  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG) , Colgate-Palmolive Co. and  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 