-- Vergara to Face Test as Chile Inflation Set to Miss Target
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d   a n d   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-02-07T18:42:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/vergara-to-face-test-as-chile-inflation-set-to-miss-target-1-.html
Chile ’s central bank President
Rodrigo Vergara will watch tomorrow’s inflation numbers with
extra interest as faster-than-expected growth and inflation
raise concern he jumped the gun in cutting rates last month.  Consumer prices  rose 4.3 percent in January from the year
earlier, the second consecutive month above the central bank’s 2
percent to 4 percent target range, according to the median
forecast of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Traders today
are pricing in 4.39 percent inflation, 0.06 percentage point
more than they were yesterday. The consumer-price report will be
released at 8 a.m. in Santiago.  After just five weeks in the job, Vergara unexpectedly cut
the benchmark interest rate a quarter point to 5 percent on Jan.
12. Since then, data have showed that unemployment fell to the
lowest since before the recession of 2009 in the fourth quarter,
while economic growth unexpectedly accelerated in December and
retail sales grew at the fastest pace in six months.  “It was premature for the central bank to decide to cut
rates instead of just waiting and seeing what would happen,”
Alfredo Coutino, Latin America director at Moody’s Analytics,
said from  West Chester  in  Pennsylvania . “The main argument was
that it cut the rate because of the deterioration of external
conditions, and I don’t think that happened.”  Since the decision, traders have increased inflation
expectations for this year to 3.23 percent from 2.76 percent.
Forwards for unidades de fomento, Chile’s inflation-linked
currency unit, are discounting 4.39 percent annual inflation in
January, or 0.25 percent for the month.  ‘Taking a Risk’  “There’s a risk inflation beats expectations; it is even
probable it rises above 5 percent in the first half,” said
Leonardo Suarez, chief economist at Larrain Vial SA in Santiago.
“We have had double-digit demand growth in 2010 and 2011. The
central bank is taking a risk and they probably don’t have much
more space to cut.”  December’s inflation rate of 4.4 percent was 0.4 percentage
points above the median forecast of analysts and the highest
since April 2009.  Breakeven inflation, a measure of the average future price
rises implied by the swap market, rose today. One-year breakeven
inflation climbed five basis points to a six-month high of 3.20
percent, while the two-year rate gained six basis points to 3.06
percent.  Traders are pricing in higher future interest rates. Two-
year interest-rate swaps today climbed for an eighth straight
day, increasing six basis points to 4.71 percent. That’s the
highest since August and a 36 basis point increase from Jan. 13.  Less to More  The peso strengthened 0.3 percent to 478.55 per  U.S.
dollar , its second-highest close since September. The currency
gained further in the interbank grey market to 477.95 per dollar
as of 2:40 p.m. in Santiago, according to prices from Datatec.  Chile’s economy may go “from less to more” in 2012,
buoyed by mining exports and  consumer spending , Suarez said.  The economy expanded at the fastest pace in 17 months in
December on gains in retailing, mining and communications, the
central bank said yesterday. The economy climbed 1.3 percent
from the previous month on a seasonally adjusted basis, compared
with 0.8 percent the month before.  In the same month, retail sales leaped 10.1 percent, while
unemployment dropped to 6.6 percent in the last three months of
the year, half a percentage point below the median estimate of
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Better Than Expected  “The world did a lot better than expected in January and
commodities rose,” said Cesar Guzman, an economist at Banco
Security in Santiago. “It’s a more inflationary world.”  Still, last month’s inflation was partly due to the
depreciation of the peso, Guzman said. The currency weakened 5.7
percent in the last two months of 2011, leading to a 12 percent
gain in the peso price of oil, the country’s biggest import.  “There were some short-term shocks that explain the higher
inflation,” said  Rodrigo Aravena , chief economist at Banchile
Inversiones. “It wasn’t through overheating.”  Increases in food prices because of drought in Chile and an
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease in  Paraguay , which supplies
63 percent of Chile’s beef, are to blame, he said. The central
bank has called the jump in inflation in December
“transitory.”  Temporary or not, Vergara may decide to hold the  benchmark
rate  at 5 percent this month because of the strong U.S. jobs
numbers, Aravena said. The U.S. jobless rate fell to 8.3 percent
in January, the lowest since February 2009.  With U.S. demand rising,  Europe ’s debt crisis on hold for
now and domestic retail sales rising above 10 percent a year,
Vergara may begin to rue January’s decision.  “People are becoming convinced that Chile has an inflation
problem,” Coutino said. “In that sense, it seems markets are
realizing that most probably it wasn’t a good idea to cut the
 interest rate  at the beginning of the year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net .
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net . 