-- Vestas CFO Exits After Turbine Maker Cuts 2011 Forecasts Twice
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s ,   J u s t i n   D o o m   a n d   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-08T09:03:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/vestas-cfo-norremark-resigns-after-profit-warnings.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S  said Chief
Financial Officer Henrik Norremark quit as the biggest wind-
turbine maker reported a loss four times wider than analyst
estimates. The shares fell the most in a month.  The loss for the 2011 financial year was 166 million euros
($220 million), compared with a 156 million-euro profit a year
earlier, Vestas’s  annual accounts  show. Analysts expected a loss
of 40.3 million euros, according to the average of 16 estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Vestas’s profits have been squeezed by Chinese competition 
and may be hurt further by a demand slump in the U.S. if federal
subsidies expire. The resignation of 45-year-old Norremark came 
after the company cut 2011 earnings forecasts twice. Chairman 
Bent Erik Carlsen, Deputy Chairman Torsten Erik Rasmussen and
board member Freddy Frandsen also won’t stand for re-election.  “There’s a low level of confidence in this management
team, especially the guidance,” Martin Prozesky, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  London , said by telephone
yesterday after Norremark’s departure was announced.  On Jan. 3, Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  reduced 
the company’s profit expectations for the second time since 
October. Nine days later, Vestas said it would halt factory 
production and cut jobs to save money.  Quarterly Sales Fall  Revenue was 5.8 billion euros in 2011, short of the
company’s initial 7 billion-euro target and missing guidance a
month ago of 6 billion euros. Fourth-quarter sales declined 35
percent to 2 billion euros.  Projects have been postponed, not canceled, and are
expected to be built this year, Vestas said in a statement,
adding that their profit margins will be lower after costs rose.
Weather delays and difficulties connecting wind farms to the
grid previously forced the company to defer 1 billion euros of
revenue to 2012 from 2011.  Vestas  fell as much as 14 percent in Copenhagen trading,
the biggest decline since Jan. 4. The stock was down 13 percent
at 58.10 kroner as of 10 a.m. local time.  The company expects 2012 revenue of 6.5 billion euros to 8
billion euros and an increase in shipments to about 7 gigawatts,
it said, without providing a forecast for its order intake.
Vestas shipped 5 gigawatts in 2011.  Norremark Exit  Norremark, who also served as deputy chief executive
officer, left citing “the conditions which during the last
months have led to profit warnings,” the Aarhus, Denmark-based
company said yesterday in a separate statement.  Norremark was also named chief operating officer on Jan.
12, part of a restructuring plan that included cutting 2,335
employees, or 10 percent of the workforce, and halting factory
production to save more than 150 million euros by year-end.  Chairman Carlsen didn’t respond to a phone message seeking 
comment. Aili Jokela, a spokeswoman for Vestas’s U.S. unit, 
didn’t respond to phone and e-mail requests for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Justin Doom in New York at 
 jdoom1@bloomberg.net ;
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net . 