-- VTB Group Drops the Most This Year on Minority Buyback Plan
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2012-02-07T15:35:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/vtb-group-drops-the-most-this-year-on-minority-buyback-plan.html
VTB Group ,  Russia ’s second-largest
bank, declined the most in five weeks after analysts at Alfa
Bank and Troika Dialog were critical of a plan to buy back
shares from minority investors.  VTB’s shares sank 2 percent to 7.1 kopeks by the 6:45 p.m.
close in Moscow, the biggest fall since Dec. 29.  The stock surged as much as 4.3 percent on Feb. 2 after
Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  told the state-controlled lender
to consider buying back shares from investors who participated
in the bank’s 2007 initial public offering. Putin yesterday said
the lender is prepared to finance the buyback from its profit
rather than tap state funds.  “The VTB buyback discussion is bad for sentiment,” Jason Hurwitz, senior analyst at  Alfa Bank  in Moscow, said by phone
today. “Since the bank would presumably have to try to limit
the offering to small investors, institutional investors would
be treated unfairly, and could consider it as poor governance,
particularly with VTB already facing a need for a capital
injection.”  Analysts do not have “a single parameter” about how the
buyback will be arranged, according to  Herbert Moos , chief
financial officer of VTB. “I would expect that all corporate
governance procedures and laws to be followed,” Moos wrote in
e-mailed answers to questions.  VTB Share Price  Russians, who lost billions of dollars in multiple bank
collapses and stock market schemes in the 1990s, rushed to buy
stock in what then-President Putin dubbed a “people’s IPO,”
which raised $8 billion. VTB hasn’t traded above the offering
price of 13.6 kopeks since August 2007 and tumbled as much as 86
percent to 1.9 kopeks in March 2009, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  “We see this all as negative for VTB,” Andrew Keeley,
banking analyst at Troika Dialog, wrote in an e-mailed report
today. “Not only is it a palpable waste of shareholders’ money,
it will also likely trim the bank’s already fragile Tier 1 ratio
by something like 30 basis points.”  -- Editors: Ash Kumar, Alex Nicholson  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  