-- Wal-Mart to Cut Some Private-Label Foods’ Sugar, Fat Levels
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-02-07T14:39:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/wal-mart-to-reduce-sugar-fat-salt-in-some-private-label-foods.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. , the world’s
largest retailer, said it’s reducing the fat, sugar and sodium
in some of its private-label foods and will more aggressively
market other healthy grocery items starting in April.  The retailer has reformulated some foods sold under its
Marketside and Great Value labels, the Bentonville, Arkansas-
based company said in a statement today. Wal-Mart will also
label foods that meet certain nutritional criteria with an icon
that says “Great for You.” Foods that meet its health
criteria, such as fresh fruits and vegetables, will get the
icon, the company said.  Wal-Mart said last year it would join an initiative with
U.S. First Lady  Michelle Obama  to fight obesity by offering
healthier foods and lower prices on those selections. The move
may help the company burnish its image, while reaching more
middle-income buyers and possibly making inroads into urban
markets, said Leon Nicholas, a senior vice president in  Boston 
for Kantar Retail, a research and consulting company.  “This won’t matter to their low-income customers but there
is demand with the middle-income customers,” Nicholas said in a
phone interview. “They can also go to  New York  City Council and
say, ‘we’re bringing healthy choices to inner city markets.’”  Wal-Mart has been trying to penetrate urban markets,
including New York, with smaller stores. Selling more healthy
choices could be a way of convincing city governments that Wal-
Mart offers something independent grocers don’t, Nicholas said.  Providing Incentive  Wal-Mart said it consulted with dieticians, nutritionists,
the non-profit  Institute of Medicine  and government agencies,
including the  Food and Drug Administration  and Agriculture
Department to come up with “Great for You” criteria.
Separately, Wal-Mart is working to reduce sodium and added sugar
in 165 items, the company said.  The company won’t immediately push its suppliers to use the
“Great for You” icon, said Andrea Thomas, senior vice
president of sustainability at Wal-Mart.  “We don’t feel like we have to carry a stick on this,”
Thomas said in a conference call with journalists. “If it
shifts customer purchase behavior, it could provide an
incentive.”  Wal-Mart’s nutritional criteria for the “Great for You”
icon focuses on limiting sugar, salt and fat content levels.
Foods can have artificial sweeteners and still get the “Great
for You” icon, Thomas said.  Another part of Wal-Mart’s initiative is to lower premium
prices on healthy foods. For example, whole wheat pasta is now
priced the same as white pasta and the retailer has removed
premiums on some healthy dairy products.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  