-- Wall Street Sees Analysts Snagged by Political Intelligence Bill
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   R o b e r t   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-02-07T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/wall-street-sees-analysts-snagged-by-political-intelligence-bill.html
A U.S. Senate measure that would
place restrictions on people who gather and sell government
information to  hedge funds  may entangle bank research analysts
and others on Wall Street, according to lawyers and lobbyists.  The  Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association ,
which represents firms including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc . and
 JPMorgan Chase & Co ., held a rare weekend call for members on
Feb. 4 to discuss the measure, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the call.  The provision, part of a broader bill that passed the
Senate last week and is scheduled to face a House vote this
week, may require analysts and others to register with Congress
and disclose contacts with government officials, according to a
legal analysis prepared for the group’s members.  “There are going to be a lot of entities and organizations
who will not want their people anymore to contact government
officials to get information which might be used for a number
perfectly appropriate purposes,” Robert L. Walker, an attorney
for  Wiley Rein LLP  who is listed as one of
the authors of the legal memo, said of the impact of the
provision.  The broader bill would ban lawmakers, their staffs, and
much of the executive branch from trading stocks, commodities or
futures based on confidential information they learn on the job.
Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican, succeeded last
week in adding the provision that targets trading in so-called
“political intelligence.”  Such information may include conversations with lawmakers,
congressional staff or other government officials about the
future of legislation or regulations that have not been made
public. That information has been targeted by lawmakers, who are
pushing to identify firms and individuals in the business and
force them to disclose their clients.  ‘Who They Are’  Grassley said the requirement will assure that “when these
people come around to get information from you to sell to hedge
funds, you’ll know who they are.”  “You give them information, they’ve got information that
people don’t have on  Wall Street  and they sell it,” Grassley
said on the Senate floor before the vote on his provision. “You
ought to know what you’re being used for.”  In advance of the Sifma call, participants were provided a
four-page memo on the provision prepared for Kenneth Bentsen,
the executive vice president of public policy for the group. The
memo, which says it was written by Wiley Rein lawyers including
Walker, notes that because of the way the provision is drafted,
“even the routine activities of research analysts would appear
to fall within the covered scope of this definition,” according
to a copy obtained by Bloomberg News.  Concern About Interpretation  “There’s always a little of the ‘this is Armageddon’
approach, but you do have to be concerned about how broadly this
bill may be interpreted,”  Peter Henning , a former Securities
and Exchange Commission enforcement lawyer, said of the bank
concerns in a telephone interview.  The practice of selling information derived from contacts
with lawmakers or their staff is not new -- lobbyists have been
doing it for years and are required to register with the
Secretary of the Senate. Lawmakers, in increasing numbers after
a series of Wall Street Journal stories on the issue, have
trained their sights on another version of information
gathering, which they refer to as “political intelligence.”  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  stripped the political
intelligence disclosure requirements from the measure the Senate
initially considered last week. Instead, it called for a study
of the issue. Grassley’s amendment, which was reattached to the
bill with the support of 32 Republicans, 27 Democrats and one
independent, overruled the opposition of Senate leadership.  The future of the measure is now in the hands of the House,
which Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, said
would vote on a version of the broader bill  this week.  ‘Most Important Part’  Representative Louise Slaughter, the New York Democrat who
has been one of the measure’s leading advocates, said last week
she would push against efforts to change or water down the
legislation. Slaughter told reporters on Feb. 3 that she was
“particularly pleased” that the Senate voted to include
Grassley’s provision because “that’s the most important part of
the bill.”  Lobbyists and lawyers pushing for changes to the measure
face growing momentum behind idea that had languished for
years, said Henning, who is now a law professor at  Wayne State
University  in  Detroit .  “The entire bill has taken on the aura of ‘Mom and apple
pie’ and you just can’t be against it,” Henning said. “This
used to be dead on arrival, but now it’s so alive I don’t know
how you can fight it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Schmidt in Washington at 
 rschmidt5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  