-- Wind Power Market Rose to 41 Gigawatts in 2011, Led by China
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-02-07T11:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/wind-power-market-rose-6-percent-to-41-gigawatts-led-by-china.html
The global wind power market rose 6
percent to 41 gigawatts last year, led by  China , which captured
more than two-fifths of the total, the Global Wind Energy
Council said today in a  report .  China installed 18 gigawatts of turbines in 2011, followed
by the U.S. with 6.8 gigawatts and  India ’s 3 gigawatts.  Germany ,
the U.K.,  Canada  and Spain followed, according to the Brussels-
based industry lobby group.  Growth in the market occurred as European governments cut
subsidies to tighten budgets and heightened competition among
manufacturers as Chinese companies such as Sinovel Wind Group
Co. and Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. grabbed
market share outside China.  “Despite the state of the global economy, wind power
continues to be the renewable generation technology of choice,”
GWEC Secretary-General Steve Sawyer said in an e-mailed
statement. “2011 was a tough year, as will be 2012, but the
long-term fundamentals of the industry remain very sound.”  Wind power capacity now totals 238 gigawatts worldwide. The
6.8 gigawatts installed in the U.S. last year could power almost
2 million American homes, and the industry is on its way to
providing 20 percent of the nation’s electricity by 2030,
according to the statement.  New Markets  The U.S. wind industry faces losing government support as
U.S. lawmakers have to date failed to extend a tax credit for
wind power that expires at the end of this year. In  Spain ,
another top 10 market, the government last month halted
subsidies on renewables. Even so, the industry is expanding into
new markets, according to Sawyer.  “We look forward to more new markets opening up in  Africa ,
 Asia  and  Latin America  in 2012 and we expect to see some of the
new markets in Latin America beyond  Brazil  start to approach
critical mass,” Sawyer said.  Brazilian installations rose by half last year, increasing
the country’s total to more than 1,500 megawatts, GWEC said.
Canada had a record year, with 1,267 megawatts of turbines
erected. Honduras and the  Dominican Republic  put up their first
wind farms while in the African island-nation of  Cape Verde , the
installed base rose 12-fold to 24 megawatts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  