-- Xcel’s Prairie Island Nuke Plant in Minnesota Vents Tritium
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2012-02-07T20:56:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/xcel-s-prairie-island-nuclear-plant-in-minnesota-vents-tritium.html
Xcel Energy Inc. ’s Prairie Island
nuclear plant in  Minnesota  released radioactive water in a leak
from its condenser system.  The 27 gallons (102 liters) of condensate was released from
a steam system overflow vent Feb. 3 and return pumps failed,
causing a spill onto the ground at the plant 40 miles (64
kilometers) southeast of  Minneapolis , Mary Sandok, a spokeswoman
for Xcel, said in an e-mail. The 551-megawatt Unit 1 and the
545-megawatt Unit 2 are operating at full power.  The release contained 15,000 picocuries per liter of
tritium, a low-level radioactive form of hydrogen, according to
a  filing  with the  Nuclear Regulatory Commission . The
Environmental Protection Agency’s drinking water standard for
tritium allows 20,000 picocuries per liter, the NRC says on its
 website .  “Plant management has shut down the steam heating system
while it investigates the matter, identifies the cause of the
pump failure and corrects the equipment deficiencies,” Sandok
said. “The overflow did not impact operations at the plant and
there was no risk to the public or employees.”  The condenser system turns steam, which is heated by the
reactor to drive turbines that produce electricity, back into
water. The incident, which occurred in a warehouse being heating
by the steam, follows a leak of sodium hypochlorite and other
chemicals at the plant Jan. 1. Bleach is a solution of sodium
hypochlorite.  The release also included methoxypropylamine, ammonia and
hydrazine, the filing showed. The plant near Red Wing generates
enough to power nearly 1 million homes, according to Xcel.  Tritium is produced in the upper atmosphere and falls to
the ground in rain water,  according  to the NRC. It is also a
byproduct of nuclear plants, a weak type of radiation that
doesn’t penetrate the skin, the federal agency said.  Critics of nuclear energy say tritium causes cancer and
gets into drinking water from leaky pipes at nuclear plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  