-- Xstrata Chief Executive Says Majority of Holders He Spoke to Back Merger
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-02-07T16:36:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/xstrata-ceo-says-majority-of-holders-he-spoke-to-back-the-deal.html
Xstrata Plc  Chief Executive Officer
 Mick Davis  said the majority of shareholders he has spoken to
back the company’s proposed combination with Glencore
International Plc.  “I’ve spoken to quite a few shareholders before we
announced the deal and the majority of the shareholders I spoke
to were clearly behind the logic of the deal,” he said in a
conference call with U.S. analysts and investors today.  Glencore, which already owns 34 percent of Xstrata, offered
2.8 new shares for each one held in the Zug, Switzerland-based
coal exporter, the companies said today. The offer values
Xstrata at about 39.1 billion pounds ($62 billion), they said.
The price represents a premium of 17 percent based on Xstrata’s
average share price over the past 20 days, compared with the 23
percent average paid in 2011 mining deals, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Standard Life Investments Ltd. and  Schroders Plc (SDR) , with a
combined 3.5 percent stake in  Xstrata Plc , are among
shareholders planning to oppose the proposed 26 billion-pound
($41 billion) merger. Huy Hoang, a  fund manager  at HDH Capital
Management Pte, said he was against the plan.  “There’s a long way to travel before we get to a final
shareholder vote and a lot of that requires us to be speaking to
the shareholders, sharing the merits of the deal,” Davis said.  Xstrata declined 4.9 percent to 1,200 pence in London at
3:39 p.m., while Glencore slid 3.5 percent to 444.8 pence.  The combination would create a business with $209 billion
in sales, the companies said. Davis, 53, will become CEO of the
combined group, while Glencore CEO Ivan Glasenberg, 55, will be
deputy CEO and president.  “We think it’s structured well, we think the governance is
right, the terms are right,” Davis said. “We don’t see it in a
context that this is just a trial and if it doesn’t work we’ll
come up with something else. We think this is the deal and we
think it’s in the best interest of the shareholders.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ; 