-- Yara Quarterly Earnings Beat Estimates as Margins Improve
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2012-02-07T15:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-07/yara-quarterly-earnings-beat-estimates-as-margins-improve-1-.html
Yara International ASA , the largest
publicly traded nitrogen-fertilizer maker, reported profit that
beat estimates and raised its dividend as margins improved and
the company booked a gain from the sale of units.  Net income more than doubled to 3.39 billion kroner ($585
million) from 1.56 billion kroner a year earlier, beating the
2.98 billion-krone  estimate  of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Yara declared a dividend of 7 kroner a share, up from
5.5 kroner.  “Margins improved compared with last year, more than
offsetting the impact of lower sales volumes,” Chief Executive
Officer Joergen Ole Haslestad said in the statement. “Crop
prices and farm margins remain healthy, and fertilizer
deliveries will need to recover to avoid a decline in global
grain stocks.”  Fertilizer prices have gained as rising food consumption
spurs farmers to plant more crops. Yara’s sales rose 13 percent
to 19.6 billion kroner in the quarter as lower volumes were
balanced by higher margins, Yara said.  “Demand has normalized early in the first quarter,” Samir
Bendriss, an analyst at Pareto Securities ASA, said in an e-
mailed note. “This should alleviate volume concerns for 2012,
especially given strong farmer margins.”  Shares Rise  Yara  rose  as much as 4.6 percent to 269.3 kroner and was up
1.2 percent as of 3:28 p.m. in Oslo. The stock has climbed 8.2
percent this year.  “Northern Hemisphere fertilizer customers have been
reluctant to take positions ahead of spring application,
resulting in slow fourth-quarter sales overall,” Haslestad
said. Global fertilizer deliveries were down 14 percent from a
year earlier, Yara said.  Given “the huge  cash  pile on the company’s balance sheet,
both dividends and share repurchase programs could be much
better,” Tomas Skeivys, an analyst at Terra Markets AS said in
an e-mailed note. “Still this leaves room for extraordinary
dividends later, possibly to be considered in spring.”  Yara reported 5.87 billion kroner in cash and cash
equivalents as of the end of the fourth quarter.  Yara added 967 million kroner to net income from the sale
of part of the company’s stake in an industrial gases venture
with Praxair Inc in October. The venture, set up in 2007,
comprises Oslo-based Yara’s industrial gas units in Norway,
Denmark and  Sweden . Yara retains 34 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  