-- ‘Hunger Games’ Marks Comeback for Former Disney Exec Jacobson
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/-hunger-games-marks-comeback-for-former-disney-exec-jacobson.html
Nina Jacobson, who brought “The
Hunger Games” to  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and produced
that studio’s biggest hit ever, knows what it’s like to be on
top in Hollywood. She also knows something about the bottom.  While her partner was giving birth to their third child six
years ago, Jacobson took a phone call from her boss,  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  film chief Dick Cook, to learn she was fired. After
overseeing hits including “The Sixth Sense” and “The Pirates
of the Caribbean” as head of Buena Vista Motion Pictures,
Jacobson was let go in a round of cutbacks.  “It’s a pretty big blow to your confidence,” Jacobson
said in an interview at Color Force, her Santa Monica,
 California , production company. “Especially if you have a big
corporate job, you know that you’re a buyer in a town of
sellers. When you don’t have that anymore it’s a very different
world.”  Jacobson still had a sense of what plays with fans. She
started Color Force in 2007 and gained rights to Jeff Kinney’s
“Diary of a Wimpy Kid” children’s books. The first two films,
made for $15 million and $21 million, grossed $148.1 million,
according researcher Box Office Mojo. The final picture will be
released in August by  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox. In 2009, she secured
rights to “The Hunger Games,” a dystopian teen-survival tale.  “It’s a relief to go out and be able to make something, to
start over again and have two franchises,” Jacobson said.  The year’s top-grossing movie so far, “The Hunger Games”
opened on March 23, tallying $153 million in domestic sales over
three days to mark the third-biggest weekend of all time behind
the final “Harry Potter” movie and “The  Dark Knight .” As of
April 2, the film had collected $253 million in U.S. and
Canadian ticket sales.  Transforming Lions Gate  The film is transforming Lions Gate, the Vancouver-based
studio best known for “Saw” horror films and Tyler Perry
comedies. With more “Hunger Games” films in the pipeline and
the potential franchises “Ender’s Game” and “Chaos Walking”
in development, the studio is in a position compete with top
Hollywood distributors.  Including home-video sales, television revenue and
merchandise, the first “Hunger Games” may generate as much as
$310 million in profit, according to Monica Dicenso, a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. analyst with an overweight or buy recommendation on
the stock. That would erase most of the losses accumulated over
a dozen years at the studio, which is run from  Santa Monica .  Cast of Characters  Jacobson saw “The Hunger Games” twice on its opening
weekend, including a midnight screening, to see how the
audiences reacted. She received box-office updates every three
hours by e-mail.  “I’m very superstitious so I worried that it was going to
be jinxed,” Jacobson said. “I saw the expectations growing and
growing to a point where it would be almost impossible to exceed
them. The fact that it did manage to really was thrilling.”  “The Hunger Games” is the first Color Force project to
approach the scale of films that Jacobson worked on at Disney.
Jacobson, who controls film rights to the three Suzanne Collins
novels, and  Lions Gate  plan as many as four films. The second is
scheduled for release in November 2013.  Lions Gate put up the movie’s $80 million budget, and
defrayed much of the cost by selling most foreign distribution
rights for about $50 million, Jacobson said. Color Force, which
provided the film rights and helped run the production, was paid
a fee and will receive a share of the profit, Jacobson said,
without offering specifics.  Creatively Intact  The creative team for “The Hunger Games” is staying
together for the second movie. Director Gary Ross has agreed to
make the film, and the principal cast, including  Jennifer Lawrence , Josh Hutcherson and Liam Hemsworth, have signed to
complete the series of three or four movies, Jacobson said.  It’s less clear who Jacobson will be working with at Lions
Gate. Two months before “The Hunger Games” opened, Lions Gate
 bought  “Twilight” producer  Summit Entertainment  for $412.5
million and named that studio’s top executives to lead the film
division.  “You hope the collaboration will be a good one, and I’m
optimistic that it will be,” Jacobson said. “The folks at
Lions Gate have been very supportive, and the team at Summit are
people I’ve known for a long time. They’re smart folks.”  Joe Drake, the head of Lions Gate’s film unit and an early
champion of “The Hunger Games,” resigned last month as co-
chief operating officer and was replaced as head of motion
pictures by Summit’s Rob Friedman and  Patrick Wachsberger .  Other executive changes are still being worked out,
Jacobson said.  Jacobson worked with several Summit executives during her
career, an experience that has left her upbeat. In the meantime,
“The Hunger Games” will give Color Force financial stability
while Jacobson looks for new properties.  “There is so much money involved, just to keep doing it
is, in its own way, a goal,” Jacobson said. “You can’t take
that for granted.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  