-- ‘Pink Slime’ Foes in Smear Campaign, Iowa’s Branstad Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M a r g a r e t   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-04-04T17:16:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/-pink-slime-foes-engage-in-smear-campaign-iowa-s-branstad-says.html
Iowa  Governor Terry Branstad said
the campaign against the beef filler called “pink slime” by
food activists is a “vicious smear” and called for a
congressional probe after more than 200 Iowans lost their jobs.  Beef Products Inc., which treats the lean beef trimmings
with ammonia hydroxide to kill pathogens, has suspended
operations at three plants, including one in Iowa, because of
consumer concerns about the product.  “There has been a vicious smear campaign run against it,
and we think that this is wrong,” Branstad, a 65-year-old
Republican, said today in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .” “We think that the public
is entitled to know the truth.”  The shuttered plants are in  Garden City , Kansas; Amarillo,
 Texas ; and  Waterloo, Iowa (8061MF) . The suspension at the plant in
Waterloo affects 220 jobs, Branstad said today. He visited a
plant in Nebraska with fellow Republican governors Rick Perry of
Texas and Sam Brownback of Kansas, he said.  “All of the evidence is clear: This is a safe product,”
Branstad said.  U.S. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said March 28 that
the product is safe to eat. Eldon Roth, the chief executive
officer of Beef Products, based in Dakota Dunes,  South Dakota ,
said in a statement that the product is “100 percent wholesome,
safe and nutritious.”  Bankruptcy Filing  Several fast-food restaurant chains have stopped using the
lean beef, including  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest
restaurant chain. McDonald’s dropped the ingredient to be
“consistent with our global beef-supply chain,” according to a
statement from the Oak Brook, Illinois-based company.  AFA Foods, a ground-beef processor owned by Yucaipa Cos.,
sought bankruptcy court protection after media coverage of “pink
slime” cut demand for its products. The company, based in King
of Prussia, Pennsylvania, listed assets of $219 million and debt
of $197 million in Chapter 11 papers filed April 2 in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington, Delaware.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Brennan in New York at 
 mbrennan25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 