-- Abbott Hepatitis C Therapy Works After Other Drugs Fail
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-04T20:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/abbott-hepatitis-c-therapy-cures-patients-failed-by-other-drugs.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) ’ experimental
hepatitis C treatment cured almost half of patients who couldn’t
eliminate the virus with therapies now on the market, according
to a study that boosted the company’s  shares .  The Abbott-funded research found that eight of 17 patients
who didn’t improve on standard-of-care treatments had no
detectible virus levels after three months on the therapy, which
combines two products, the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based company
said in a statement. Abbott rose less than 1 percent to $61.46
at 4 p.m. New York time, the highest closing price since at
least 1980, according data compiled by Bloomberg.  Together with positive results for patients who hadn’t been
treated before, the data shows Abbott has a strong hepatitis C
pipeline that may diversify the company’s drug sales, said Glenn Novarro, an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  “It’s competitive, it’s compelling, and it indicates
they’ve got a real program,” Novarro said in a telephone
interview. “For Abbott, this is great news.”  Abbott,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY) ,  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) ,
Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. and Merck & Co. are working on
hepatitis cures that don’t require the use of interferon, an
injection tied to flu-like side effects. Among Abbott’s
competitors, Gilead fell 1.9 percent to $47.19 and Bristol
dropped less than 1 percent to $33.70.  Competitive Pressure  “Today’s news places additional pressure on Gilead and
Bristol-Myers,”  Tony Butler , an analyst with Barclays Capital
Inc., said in a note to clients. Butler said Abbott’s hepatitis
C drugs could be worth as much as $2 billion a year if they’re
approved by regulators.  The Abbott data is good enough to get U.S. approval if
supported in larger trials, said Scott Brun, vice president of
infectious disease development.  “We’re comfortable that these are the types of results
that when confirmed in a larger phase II program would allow us
to move forward,” Brun said by telephone.  Abbott’s study examined 50 hepatitis C patients, who were
given a combination of the antiviral drugs ABT-450, ABT-333,
ritonavir and ribavirin. The 17 who were treated before showed a
47 percent cure rate, while those who had never been treated had
a rate of between 93 and 95 percent, Abbott said.  Abbott is in the process of splitting into a diversified
products company led by its medical device division, and a  drug
company , to be called AbbVie. The drugmaker is seeking products
to replace its top-seller Humira, a $7.9 billion-a-year
injection used to treat rheumatoid arthritis.  Valuing Hepatitis Pipeline  “Investors aren’t assigning much valuation to its
pharmaceutical business because it’s so Humira-dominated,”
RBC’s Novarro said. “After today, they have to start thinking
about valuing the hepatitis platform.”  The study is part of a research program in the second of
three phases of clinical trials before U.S. regulators at the
Food and Drug Administration rule on the drug.  Abbott previewed results from one of the studies for
investors in October, showing that it could cure around 90
percent of patients who had never been treated. Abbott’s therapy
relies on a combination of three or four drugs, while
competitors use two or three. Novarro said the number of drugs
in the therapy won’t matter if the results are good enough.  The release of Abbott’s preliminary data last year caused
Pharmasset, now owned by Gilead, to fall 8.6 percent in a day.
Abbott has said it hopes to have a treatment on the market by
2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  