-- Wives of Madoff Sons Can Be Sued for ‘Enrichment,’ Judge Says
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-04-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/madoff-sons-wives-can-be-sued-for-enrichment-judge-says-1-.html
A judge ruled that Mark Madoff’s
widow, Stephanie, and  Andrew Madoff ’s ex-wife, Deborah, can be
sued for “unjust enrichment” in a lawsuit against Bernard Madoff’s family by the liquidator of his brokerage.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  in 2009 sued the Madoff family
for $198 million, alleging they used the firm as a “family
piggy bank.” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  gave him
permission to add the Madoff sons’ former wives as defendants,
saying they could be sued for unjust enrichment though not for
some earlier transfers, according to a court order filed in
Manhattan bankruptcy court yesterday.  Stephanie Mack, Deborah Madoff and Susan Elkin, Mark
Madoff’s first wife, received $115 million from the Madoff firm,
Picard has alleged. He can’t make bankruptcy claims against the
wives because his time to do so has run out, though he can try
to recover smaller amounts received later of about $5.5 million,
Lifland said in his order.  Daniel Tabak, a lawyer for Deborah Madoff, and  Michael
Klein , a lawyer for Stephanie Mack, didn’t immediately respond
to calls seeking comment on the judge’s order.  The Madoff sons’ wives asked Lifland in February to bar
Picard from adding them to the lawsuit. He omitted them from the
original lawsuit and now was seeking money that in some cases
was time-barred as it was received beyond the six years allowed
by New York law for clawbacks, they said.  Mark Madoff committed suicide in December 2010. His father
Bernard is serving a 150-year sentence in a federal prison in
North Carolina.  The case is Picard v. Estate of Mark Madoff, 09-01503, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Farr  at   sfarr@bloomberg.net . 