-- Taiwan Bourse’s Schive Sees Trading Tax Causing Stock Drop
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-04T07:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/taiwan-bourse-says-likely-tax-on-trading-will-cause-stock-slump.html
Taiwan  is likely to impose a
capital-gains tax on share transactions to bolster revenues,
causing equities to decline, said Schive Chi, the chairman of
the island’s stock exchange.  “The market will certainly react to this but I think that
is because how the capital gains are going to be taxed is still
not clear,” Schive said yesterday in an interview in Boao,
 China . “That will cause some kind of concern for uncertainty.”  The benchmark  Taiex index  retreated 3.4 percent the past
four days since the Economic Daily reported the government was
evaluating the tax, making the benchmark gauge the second-worst
performer in  Asia  in that period. During elections earlier this
year, President Ma Ying-jeou and the opposition advocated a
 capital-gains  tax to help narrow the wealth gap.  Taiwan has exempted securities transactions from capital-
gains taxes since Jan. 1, 1990, according to the stock
exchange’s  website . The tax was set aside after a year because
of widespread evasion and the government has contemplated
reintroducing it since at least 1993.  The Ministry of Finance aims to reach a decision in a
month, Finance Minister Christina Liu said in a reply to
questions from lawmakers at a meeting in parliament on April 2.
The tax overhaul panel will continue discussing whether to
reinstate the tax at its meeting on April 8, a Finance Ministry
spokesman who declined to be identified, said yesterday.  There’s a “99 percent” chance Taiwan will reimpose the
duty, Schive said. Taiwan needs it “for fairness and additional
 tax revenue . It’s just as simple as that,” he said.  Closer Ties  Taiwan’s markets are closed for a holiday today. The Taiex
sank 1.3 percent to 7,760.85 yesterday, the lowest close since
Feb. 7. A Bank of New York Mellon  index  of Taiwanese companies’
American depositary receipts slumped 1 percent, the most since
March 20.  Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Corp. (TSM) ’s ADRs sank
1.2 percent, the first drop in three days.  The  stock index  has rallied 9.7 percent this year on
speculation a U.S. economic recovery and as Ma’s re-election as
president on Jan. 14 fueled optimism the island would strengthen
economic ties with China. The gauge is valued at 15 times
estimated profit, a 40 percent premium to the  MSCI Emerging-
Markets Index (MXEF) ’s 10.7 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In 1988, when the plan for a tax was discussed, stocks fell
for 19 consecutive days, dropping 33 percent in a month, Schive,
the chairman of Asia’s seventh-largest  stock market , said.
Shares are unlikely to slump as much this time because more
companies are traded on the bourse and there’s a larger
proportion of foreign investors, he said.  Any decline will probably be “short-term,” Andy Wei, who
helps manage $80 billion at Eastspring Investments, the Asian
asset management unit of Prudential Plc, said in a telephone
interview from Taipei yesterday. “As long as the scope of the
taxation is made clear and as long as the scope is narrow to
target less investors, I think any downside will be minimized.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  