-- Malaysia Group Calls for Protests as Najib Prepares for Election
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-04-04T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/malaysia-group-calls-for-protests-as-najib-prepares-for-election.html
A Malaysian group that has staged
protests to demand a more transparent election process called
for a rally later this month in a challenge to Prime Minister
Najib Razak as he prepares to hold a national vote.  The Coalition for Clean and Fair Elections, known as  Bersih
2.0 , will organize a “nationwide and worldwide sit-in” on
April 28, it said in a statement on its website yesterday. The
main protest is planned for Merdeka Square in the capital, Kuala
Lumpur, the group said.  The prospect of street demonstrations present a dilemma for
Najib, who has vowed to change election laws and allow for
greater freedom of assembly after a crackdown against the Bersih
group in July. Authorities used tear gas and water cannons
against the march’s participants in Kuala Lumpur and the arrest
of 1,600 people drew criticism from international rights groups.  “It’s a tricky balancing act that Najib has to play in how
he uses the police,” said Ong Kian Ming, a political analyst at
UCSI University in  Kuala Lumpur  who expects a vote in June. “If
Najib can handle it well, he won’t have to delay the election.”  Najib’s ruling coalition is preparing to call the vote in
May or June before it’s required early next year, according to
four officials who spoke on condition of anonymity last month.
The government plans to distribute 50,000 pamphlets this week
that outline its stance on current issues, Information and
Communication Minister Rais Yatim said March 27.  Election Report  Bersih decided to call for demonstrations after the lower
house of parliament on April 3 adopted a report containing 22
proposals for electoral reform. The suggestions, which include
automatically registering citizens to vote when they turn 21,
ignore more crucial demands such as removing dead people from
voting lists, according to the Bersih statement.  Najib in September vowed to repeal laws that allow
detention without trial and limit freedom of assembly after the
clashes with Bersih protesters in July. Two months later, the
lower house of parliament passed the Peaceful Assembly Bill 2011,
which bans street protests and requires demonstrators to notify
police of their plans in advance.  Bersih, which means “clean” in the Malay language, is a
coalition of 84 non-government organizations and isn’t
affiliated with any political party. Opposition groups have
backed the Bersih campaign, with leaders such as  Anwar Ibrahim 
and Lim Kit Siang joining the July 9 rally.  Bersih has called on the government to implement  eight
demands  before the next election. The government must establish
a campaign period of at least 21 days and allow Malaysians
living overseas to vote by mail, it has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Peter
Hirschberg at   phirschberg@bloomberg.net  