-- Allen Stanford’s Receiver Fights Investors Over Pay Increase
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   T o m   K o r o s e c
-- 2012-04-04T18:27:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/allen-stanford-s-receiver-fights-investors-for-increase-in-pay.html
R. Allen Stanford’s court appointed
receiver asked a U.S. judge to increase the amount of money he
and his team of professionals can get for marshaling and
liquidating the financier’s assets.  Dallas  lawyer Ralph Janvey and his counsel made the request
of U.S. District Judge David Godbey in Dallas in a hearing
today. Stanford’s defrauded investors, who haven’t been repaid
any of the $7 billion owed to them, opposed the motion.  Janvey’s outside counsel, Kevin Sadler, argued today that
the receiver’s team has been working at the same pay rates since
2009. He also said investors might have as much as $1 billion
more to recover if the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
sued Stanford sooner than February 2009.  “When all you are left with is litigation, it’s the most
difficult thing to turn into cash,” he told the judge.  A federal jury last month found Stanford, 62, guilty of
lying to people who bought certificates of deposit issued by his
Antigua bank about what he was doing with their money and with
what oversight. He’s scheduled to be sentenced on June 14.  Janvey, whom Godbey appointed in February 2009 -- four
months before Stanford was indicted -- and his outside
professionals, including  Baker Botts LLP (1143L) , have been paid more
than $52 million. That sum doesn’t include a court-imposed $16
million hold-back.  Billing Discount  Between February 2009 and Oct. 31, 2011, the receivership
accrued $211.1 million in cash and assets, while spending $102.4
million on litigation, wind-down costs, professional fees and
other expenses.  Janvey and Sadler on March 9 asked Godbey to reduce the
hold-back from 20 percent to 10 percent. They also asked the
court to allow them to reduce their billing discount from 20
percent to 10 percent.  “By way of comparison,” Sadler said in the March 9
submission, “the law firms representing the trustees in
similarly complex fraud/insolvency matters -- the Madoff and  MF
Global (MFGLQ)  cases -- are performing their work at only a 10 percent
discount on rates that are significantly higher than the rates
that are being charged for this matter.”  Sadler was referring to the $20 billion Bernard L. Madoff
investor fraud in  New York  and to the bankruptcy of MF Global
Holdings Inc., parent of commodities broker MF Global Inc.
Outside counsel in each instance are discounting their fees by
10 percent, Janvey’s lawyer said.  Hourly Rates  Sadler said his regular hourly rate has been trimmed to
$555 from $750, while Janvey -- who regularly charges his
clients $500 an hour -- has been billing $340 an hour on the
Stanford case and then discounting that by 20 percent.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard , a partner in Cleveland-based
 Baker Hostetler LLP (1155L) , bills $765 an hour.  Skadden Arps (1112L) , the New
York firm acting as counsel for MF Global trustee James Giddens,
charges as much as $1,095 an hour, Sadler said.  Differences between the Dallas and New York markets may
explain hourly rate variance, the attorney said. They don’t
justify a difference in the discount rate, he said.  On March 16, the receivership also asked Godbey for an
order establishing a claims bar-date, a step toward establishing
a claims-payment process.  If a claims process is established, the receiver would have
“$55-to-$65 million” to distribute by the end of this year,
Sadler said today.  ‘I Have Sympathy’  Godbey told the lawyers he has received letters from
investors aggrieved about the fee issue.  “Unsurprisingly, they say, they haven’t received a nickel
and Mr. Janvey gets a raise,” the judge said, later adding, “I
have sympathy for their frustration.”  “The investors, who have not received any money to date,
would be in opposition to a change in rate at this point,”
David Kitner, an attorney representing a court-sanctioned
investors’ committee, told the judge today.  David Reece, a lawyer for the SEC, told Godbey he disagreed
with Sadler’s view of the agency’s actions and that the
government opposes an increase in receivership compensation.  “The commission believes the current rates are reasonable
given the amount of funds available,” Reece said.  Godbey rejected as irrelevant Sadler’s argument about the
timing of the SEC enforcement action. He also said he was
inclined to agree with court-appointed investor advocate John
Little, who said he supported the professional fee increase and
a reduction in the percentage held back by the court because
younger lawyers working on the case had more skill and acumen
now than when they started in 2009.  Godbey didn’t issue a ruling today.  The judge said he would hold a hearing before the end of
April on starting a process to identify investor claims.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of  Texas  (Dallas). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Korosec in Dallas at 
 tkorosec@sbcglobal.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  