-- Allot Rise Halts at Twice Nasdaq Value: Israel Overnight
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-04-05T14:02:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/allot-rally-stalls-at-double-nasdaq-valuation-israel-overnight.html
Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  is curbing
a rally that made it the biggest gainer of Israeli stocks listed
in the U.S. last month, as the network gear maker trades for
more than double valuations on the  Nasdaq  Composite Index.  Allot, based in Hod Hasharon,  Israel ,  plunged  4.4 percent
to $22.50 yesterday, the biggest one-day decline since March 6.
The shares jumped 30 percent last month, their largest advance
since October and the most on the  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity
Index. (ISRA25BN)  Allot lost 3.9 percent to 83.07 shekels, or the
equivalent of $22.22, at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv  today.
The gauge of Israeli companies listed in New York slumped 1.3
percent yesterday, the biggest drop in a month.  MagicJack
VocalTec Ltd. (CALL)  slid the most in two months after its chairman
resigned.  As more people use smartphones and computer tablets, rising
demand for Allot’s technology to manage traffic on networks
bolstered the stock to 41 times estimated  earnings  yesterday,
from as little as 19.6 times six months ago. The average
valuation for companies traded on the Nasdaq is 16.4 times
projected earnings, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Allot’s 55
percent surge this year in the U.S. to a record on April 2 made
it overpriced, according to Northland Securities Inc.  “It’s not that I don’t believe in the sector or the growth
potential,” Catharine Trebnick, an analyst at Minneapolis-based
Northland who cut her rating on the shares to the equivalent of
hold on March 30, said in an interview yesterday. “The stock
has gotten ahead of itself, that’s it.”  Fed Spooks Stocks  Global stock markets declined for a second day after the
 Federal Reserve  signaled it may refrain from more monetary
stimulus in minutes released yesterday, and as demand fell at a
Spanish bond auction. The  Nasdaq (CCMP)  slumped 1.5 percent, its
biggest one-day decline this year. Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 (TA-25) 
Index advanced 0.3 percent today.  MagicJack, the Netanya, Israel-based company whose founders
invented the technology to make phone calls over the Internet,
tumbled 9 percent to $20.32, the biggest slide since Feb. 1.
Ilan Rosen resigned as chairman as of April 1, and Gerald Vento,
currently a board member, will probably replace him, Chief
Executive Officer Dan Borislow said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Allot probably won’t see  revenue  from deals with large U.S.
wireless network operators until 2013,  Peter Misek , an analyst
at Jefferies & Co., wrote in a research note yesterday. Misek,
who estimates sales will grow 21 percent this year to $93.9
million, boosted his price target to $25 from $21 and downgraded
Allot shares to hold, as the company’s growth has already been
reflected in the rally, he wrote.  ‘Multi-Million Dollar Revenues’  Misek is one of two analysts to rate the shares the
equivalent of hold. Eight  recommend  investors buy Allot,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rami Hadar, Allot’s chief executive officer, said on a Feb.
7 conference call with analysts that he expects “multi-million
dollar revenues” from sales to U.S. carriers in 2012.  Jay Kalish, executive director of  investor relations  for
Allot, said by phone that the company doesn’t comment on
movements in its share price.  Per-share earnings, excluding certain items, will jump to
55 cents this year from 38 cents in 2011, according to the
average of 10 analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Allot still has room to rally as demand for technology to
manage  Internet traffic  grows, according to Wedbush Securities
Inc. Wedbush analysts including Research Associate Sanjit Singh
raised their 12-month price target on the shares to $26 from $21
and reiterated an outperform rating, according to a note dated
April 2.  ‘Significant Strength’  “While the stock has seen significant strength in recent
weeks, we believe demand for traffic management solutions
remains healthy driven by rapid consumption of video and other
bandwidth-intensive applications and the ubiquitous adoption of
smartphones and tablets,” the analysts wrote. Investors
“looking to capitalize on the growth of mobile data traffic”
should buy the stock.  Smaller competitor  Procera Networks Inc. (PKT) , based in Fremont,
 California , trades for 57 times estimated earnings. Procera
shares fell 1.6 percent to $22.78 yesterday.  Internet Gold-Golden Lines Ltd. (IGLD) , the Petach Tikva, Israel-
based holding company that controls  Bezeq (BEZQ)  Israeli
Telecommunications Corp., lost 2.1 percent today to 21.61
shekels in Tel Aviv, the equivalent of $5.78. The shares fell 10
percent to $5.85 in New York yesterday.  Bezeq, Israel’s largest fixed-line phone company, was re-
initiated yesterday with a sell rating and a 5-shekel price
target at Psagot Investment House Ltd. IBI-Israel Brokerage &
Investments Ltd. cut its rating on the stock to neutral from buy
and reduced its price target to 6.7 shekels, according to a
research note dated March 28.  Bezeq’s  shares  lost 0.9 percent in Tel Aviv today to 5.88
shekels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ; 