-- Alternate-Energy Group to Avoid Clean, Green in Campaigns
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/alternate-energy-group-to-avoid-clean-green-in-campaigns.html
Clean-energy companies may benefit
from a new political-action committee trying to bridge a policy
divide that is playing out in ads featuring Solyndra LLC’s
collapse and finger-pointing over high gasoline costs.  The Accelerating Energy Leadership, or Accel, PAC will help
candidates who support “diversifying American energy sources,”
which includes solar and wind power, biomass, nuclear and
natural gas, according to an invitation to its inaugural event
last month.  The group stresses bipartisanship. The first recipient was
Senator  Dean Heller , a Nevada Republican who backs renewable
energy. The second was Senator Jon Tester, a Montana Democrat
who supports the Keystone XL pipeline, a proposed $7.6 billion
project to carry crude oil from  Canada  to Gulf Coast refineries.  “We want to avoid the catch words -- clean energy, green
energy -- that set people off in the wrong way,” said Tim Greeff, the Washington-based PAC’s treasurer. “The political
rhetoric is starting to dictate and override any pragmatic
solutions.”  Accel raised more than $25,000 at the March 7 fundraiser,
which was held a few blocks from the Capitol. Venture
capitalists, utility executives, and representatives from the
wind, solar, and biofuels industries attended, Greeff said.
Future events are planned in  New York  and  San Francisco , he
said.  Clean-Energy Companies  While the group will support candidates who embrace an
“all-of-the-above” energy strategy, its success could pay
dividends for clean-energy businesses in particular that are
outspent in Washington by fossil-fuel rivals such as Koch
Industries Inc. in Wichita, Kansas, a holding company with
refining and chemical subsidiaries.  The  American Wind Energy Association , whose members include
 Iberdrola SA (IBE)  of Bilbao,  Spain , gave $56,200 to members of both
parties since last year, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics, a Washington-based group that analyzes campaign and
lobbying expenditures.  Koch’s political action committee gave more than $872,000
to candidates in 2011 and so far in 2012, almost all to
Republicans, according to the center.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the
largest U.S. oil company, gave more than $992,000 through its
political action committee, mostly to Republican candidates, in
that period.  Alternative-energy companies -- such as  SunPower Corp. (SPWR)  in
San Jose,  California , and  BrightSource Energy Inc. (BRSE) , in Oakland,
California -- also spend less on lobbying, about $28 million in
2011 compared with $148 million by oil and gas companies,
according to data compiled by the center and Bloomberg New
Energy Finance.  Energy Mix Debate  Accel is stepping into a debate marked by growing
disagreements over how to shape the U.S. energy mix after
President Barack Obama included tens of billions of dollars in
clean energy and conservation programs in his 2009 economic
stimulus.  Last week, Obama said Republicans were part of the “flat-
earth society” for opposing incentives for wind and solar
development as they defend $40 billion in what he said were
unneeded tax breaks for  oil companies .  This week, his campaign released a political ad that noted
both oil production and renewable energy generation were up
during Obama’s administration.  Keystone Pipeline  That ad was a response to a spot from the American Energy
Alliance, a Washington-based advocacy group that says it
supports free market policies, criticizing Obama for rejecting
the  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s Keystone pipeline while supporting
Solyndra, which filed for bankruptcy protection two years after
winning a $535 million U.S. loan guarantee.  Republicans say Obama practiced “crony capitalism” for
backing the Fremont, California solar-panel maker, which drew
investment from one of his campaign fundraisers. The Energy
Department has said the guarantee was awarded on the merits of
the company’s application.  The party split on energy used to be less pronounced,
according to Dan Tate, a lobbyist with Washington-based Capitol
Solutions whose clients include Tokyo-based  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  and
Generators for Clean Air, a coalition of utilities that includes
Columbus, Ohio-based  American Electric Power Co. (AEP)   “Energy was oil-and-gas-producer states versus consumer
states,” Tate, a former aide in President Bill Clinton’s
administration, said in an e-mail. “Renewables had a coastal
constituency and few detractors because they were such a small
percentage of energy. Now even these regional issues have taken
on a partisan sheen.”  Solyndra’s Failure  That makes it “extraordinarily difficult to find
agreement” on energy, he said.  Representative Steve King, an Iowa Republican whose
northwestern Iowa district includes farmers paid to have
turbines on their land, said Solyndra’s failure has made it
“hard for conservatives” to be “supportive of renewable
energy.”  “There is less room to come together in the middle,” with
Democrats opposing energy sources that they say contribute to
climate change, he said.  While King supports extending tax breaks benefiting wind
producers set to expire this year, Republicans led by Senator
Lamar Alexander of  Tennessee  and Representative Mike Pompeo of
 Kansas  are calling for an end to energy subsidies.  House Speaker John Boehner, an Ohio Republican, has said
the White House hasn’t backed up assertions that a Treasury
grant program for renewable energy had created thousands of
jobs. He called the grants, which Obama is seeking to revive
after their expiration last year, a “Solyndra-style” stimulus
program.  Solyndra criticism “shows how fragile the support for
really going for advanced energy is from a political
standpoint,” Accel’s Greeff said.  To compensate, advocates for clean energy need to align
themselves with established energy companies to rebuild support,
he said.  “The over-politicization in the energy debate puts
renewable energy on one side and traditional sources like
natural gas and nuclear on the other,” Greeff said. “To choose
between the two is just silly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in  Washington  at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  