-- Altima Is Nissan Ticket to Ride Past Honda After 24 Years: Cars
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-04-04T18:23:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/altima-is-nissan-ticket-to-ride-past-honda-after-24-years-cars.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s struggle to move
ahead of Honda Motor Co. in the U.S. hangs on the new Altima
being shown today in New York. It’s designed to boost the
sedan’s appeal after it passed Accord in 2011 to become the No.
2-selling car.  Nissan’s ability to restart plants faster than Honda after
last year’s earthquake in  Japan  helped Altima’s U.S. sales jump
17 percent in 2011 to trail only Toyota Motor Corp.’s Camry
among passenger cars. Honda fell back in March, with sales down
5 percent, while Altima topped Accord by more than 50 percent in
the first quarter.  Mid-size sedans are critical to automakers’ identity and
success because they tend to be profitable vehicles as well as
top sellers. While the current Altima is making a strong finish,
the new version faces a formidable array of rivals including a
new Accord,  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s restyled Malibu and  Ford Motor
Co. (F) ’s revamped Fusion.  “That’s the most competitive, crowded segment in the U.S.
at the moment, and it’s going to stay that way for the
foreseeable future,” said  Jesse Toprak , industry analyst for
TrueCar.com in Santa Monica,  California . “With a new Accord
coming, it’s going to be tougher for Altima to keep its spot.”  Carlos Ghosn , who leads both Nissan and alliance partner
 Renault SA (RNO) , is pushing the Japanese carmaker to outsell Honda in
the U.S. and eventually take 10 percent of the market, up from
8.2 percent last year. One of the surprises among U.S. sales
figures announced yesterday was that Nissan edged out Honda by
2,000 vehicles in the first quarter.  The new Altima, shown today at the  New York  auto show, is
Yokohama-based Nissan’s best chance to keep and widen that lead.  ‘Window’ Closing  “They have a window of opportunity, but it’s closing,”
said  Jeremy Anwyl , vice chairman of Edmunds.com. While Honda’s
supply is still constrained, the Tokyo-based company is working
hard to boost production.  Increasing U.S. market share to 10 percent would require
adding 300,000 sales, based on analysts’ estimates for the year.
That target isn’t necessarily for 2012, said David Reuter, a
company spokesman. Ghosn said yesterday that the company will
probably boost U.S. deliveries by at least 14 percent this year
to 1.2 million, which would be well short of a 10 percent share.  “We see Honda as being certainly a near-term objective,”
Brian Carolin, Nissan’s head of North American sales, said in a
January interview in  Detroit .  Changing Places  Nissan, which used to sell cars and trucks under the Datsun
name, had led Honda through 1987. By then, Honda had started a
premium brand, Acura, which topped 100,000 sales for the first
time in 1988. Aided by rising Civic and Accord sales, Honda
jumped ahead of Nissan, which started selling the Infiniti line
late the next year.  Nissan sold 268,981 Altimas in the U.S. last year while
Toyota had 308,510 Camry deliveries. Ford’s Fusion also outsold
Honda’s models, rising 13 percent to 248,607. Honda’s Civic slid
9.7 percent to 240,259 and its Accord, normally its top-selling
car, fell 17 percent to 235,625.  Nissan’s U.S. sales rely on Altima, said Jessica Caldwell,
an industry analyst with Edmunds.com.  “If Altima has a good month, then Nissan has a good
month,” Caldwell said, who is also based in  Santa Monica . “In
terms of Nissan’s future success, a lot rides on this and a lot
of people are expecting a lot.”  More Power, Mileage  The 2013 Altima that begins sales in July keeps the basic
sloping profile of the current car. The base version will have a
$21,500 starting price, featuring a 2.5-liter, 182-horsepower
engine that gets 38 miles per gallon in highway driving, Nissan
said today. That compares with the $20,550 base model currently
sold, with a 175-horsepower engine that gets 32 mpg highway.  Smartphone connectivity and Bluetooth audio functions are
standard on all grades of the new car, as are its “zero-
gravity” seats the company said resemble those used in NASA
spacecraft. The top-end Altima with a 270-hp, V-6 engine will
cost $30,080, Nissan said.  Nissan faces pressure in the mid-size sedan segment, led by
Camry the past decade, that may be the most intense ever, said
Toprak.  Along with a new Accord, due by September, and recently
revamped Camry, GM is selling a new Malibu and Ford’s restyled
Fusion arrives late this year.  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) 
and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  are also boosting supplies of their
respective mid-size cars, the Passat, Sonata and Optima sedans.  ‘Room for Everybody’  Mid-size cars accounted for about 17 percent of new
vehicles purchased in the U.S. last year, Toprak said. The
segment should grab 19 percent of total sales this year as
industry deliveries climb as much as 13 percent to 14.5 million
autos, he said.  “The good news is there’s room for everybody this year,”
Toprak said.  Accord sales were hurt by inventory issues related to
Japan’s natural disasters, followed by Thai flooding that also
cut supplies of some parts.  Altima  has also benefited from increased incentive
spending, which rose 44 percent to $4,006 in February compared
to a year ago, according to Autodata Corp. The industry average
for passenger cars was $2,186.  “Someone that is buying a middle-of-the-road-type of
vehicle is generally more price-sensitive,” Caldwell said.  Honda has signaled it won’t surrender to Nissan or Altima.
The company resumed normal production at its North American
factories in December and January.  Until the new Accord arrives, Honda is ramping up
production of the current car at its Marysville, Ohio, plant, to
recover sales lost last year,  Tetsuo Iwamura , Honda’s executive
vice president and North American chief operating officer, said
in an interview last month. Output at the factory jumped
49 percent in the year’s first two months from a year ago.  “Accord should make a comeback,” he said. “When you see
the new Accord, you’ll see that we’ve taken a straight road with
it, not going right or left,” Iwamura said, without
elaborating.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  