-- Greek Man Shoots Himself Near Parliament During Morning
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-04-04T17:23:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/man-shoots-himself-in-central-athens-during-commuting-hour.html
A 77-year-old retired Greek
pharmacist committed suicide in  Athens ’ central square during
the commuter rush hour this morning in reaction to the country’s
economic crisis.  The man shot himself in the head near  Greece ’s parliament,
a police spokesman said. He was identified as Dimitris
Christoulas, Kathimerini reported, citing the head of the Attica
Pharmacists’ union.  The man left a note saying he was taking his life because
of economic hardship, the newspaper said. He compared Greece’s
government to the collaborationists under German occupation
during World War II and said he had no choice but to kill
himself before he started digging through trash for food,
Athens-based Kathimerini reported.  “It is tragic for one of our people to end his life,”
Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  said in an e-mailed
statement. “During these difficult hours for society we must
all, the state and its citizens,  support the people among us
that are desperate.”  A stream of people visited the site of the suicide
throughout the day, some taking pictures of a makeshift shrine,
others posting messages like, “This isn’t suicide, it’s
murder” and “Memorandum of murder.”  Austerity Measures  The memorandum refers to Greece’s agreement to austerity
measures including tax increases and wage and pension cuts in
exchange for financing from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund . Unemployment rose in December to a
record 21 percent with the country mired in a fifth year of
recession.  About 500 people gathered in Syntagma Square during the
evening, some booing police guarding parliament, in response to
the man’s death and to voice their opposition to government
austerity measures including cuts to wages and pensions.  “The incident is so shocking that any political comment is
cheap and unseemly,” Evangelos Venizelos, leader of Pasok, the
largest party in parliament, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Let’s focus on the country’s situation and on our society with
a sense of national solidarity and cohesion.”  ‘Not the First’  “Unfortunately, he’s not the first,” Antonis Samaras,
leader of  New Democracy , Greece’s second-largest party, said in
an e-mail about the suicide. “Death is not just when one dies,
but when one lives in despair, without hope. This is precisely
what makes our debt heavier and more urgent.”  There have been more than 1,500 suicides and suicide
attempts in Greece in the last three years, according to a Jan.
11 report by the state-run Athens News Agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  