-- Anadarko, Cove to Explore in Northern Mozambique After Gas Find
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n   a n d   F r e d   K a t e r e r e
-- 2012-04-04T13:49:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/anadarko-cove-to-explore-in-northern-mozambique-after-gas-find.html
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  and  Cove
Energy Plc (COV)  will turn their attention to the northern waters of
Mozambique after finding as much as 30 trillion cubic feet of
gas off the coast of the East African nation to date.  The partners, which include Mitsui & Co and Bharat
Petroleum Corp., completed the Barquentine-4 appraisal well,
which found 525 feet (160 meters) of natural gas, Anadarko said
today in a statement. The venture has completed the appraisal of
the Windjammer-Lagosta-Barquentine-Camarao fields, which was
renamed the Prosperidade area.  “We have now bookended over 30 kilometers (18.6 miles) of
proven gas fairway,” Cove Chief Executive Officer John Craven
said in a separate statement. “We can now look forward to new
high-impact exploration drilling in the northern section of the
prolific Area 1 Rovuma offshore block.”  Ophir Energy Plc (OPHR)  and  Premier Oil Plc (PMO) , both London-based
explorers, are hoping that gas fields discovered in Mozambique
and  Tanzania  extend into their license areas off  East Africa .
PTT Exploration & Production Pcl and Royal Dutch Shell Plc have
both offered to buy Cove for its offshore gas discoveries, which
could be big enough to supply liquefied natural gas to  Asia .  BG Group Plc (BG/)  and Eni SpA last month made the latest gas
discoveries off Tanzania and Mozambique, bringing the region’s
total resource base to more than 80 trillion cubic feet,
sufficient to supply the world for more than eight months.  Anadarko and Cove will move one of the two rigs operated in
 Mozambique  to drill the Atum and Golfinho prospects in the
northern part of Area 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fred Katerere in Maputo at 
 fkaterere@bloomberg.net 
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  