-- Maori Battle Goldman by Mount Doom in New Zealand Asset Sale
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-04-05T09:33:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/maori-battle-goldman-by-mount-doom-as-new-zealand-sells-assets.html
A bus full of bankers from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other lenders bounces down a dirt track in
New Zealand’s  North Island  to survey sites that are dividing the
nation, pitting John Key’s government against Maori who have
lived here for centuries.  Near the volcano that film director  Peter Jackson  chose as
Mount Doom in his “Lord of the Rings” trilogy, the bankers
view a drilling rig shipped from Iceland that has bored 1,100
meters (3,600 feet) of a geothermal-power well for state-owned
 Mighty River Power Ltd . The company plans to sell shares this
year in the first of four initial public offerings Key says will
help raise as much as NZ$7 billion ($5.7 billion), the nation’s
biggest asset sale in two decades.  Some Maori say the sales violate the 172-year-old  Treaty of
Waitangi ,  New Zealand ’s controversial founding document that
gave the indigenous people rights to their land and resources.
They’re mounting a legal challenge to the IPOs that Key says
will raise money for schools and roads after the country lost
its top credit rating because of mounting debt.  “Overseas investors just really want to understand what it
is they’re buying into,” said  Mai Chen , who founded Wellington-
based law firm Chen Palmer with ex-prime minister  Geoffrey Palmer . “What they don’t understand is this black box called
the Treaty of Waitangi.”  Maori want to stop their “taonga,” or treasures, from
being controlled by private investors who the government says
won’t be liable for any unresolved Treaty claims. The companies
make power from resources including rivers and underground steam
in areas of scenic beauty. Most of the nation’s 4.4 million
people oppose the sales, with Maori opponents saying they turn a
sacred life force -- water -- into a commodity.  Five Sales  The government plans to sell as much as 49 percent of
Mighty River in the third quarter on the New Zealand stock
exchange and replicate that with Meridian Energy Ltd., Solid
Energy New Zealand Ltd. and Genesis Power Ltd. over the next
five years. It will also reduce its 73 percent stake in  Air New
Zealand Ltd. (AIR)  to as low as 51 percent. The timing and order of
the other IPOs haven’t been decided.  Goldman,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) 
are among banks that stand to gain fees from the sales. All
three declined to comment.  To damp public opposition, Key said 85 percent to 90
percent of the companies will be owned by New Zealanders on
completion of the IPOs. Overseas investors can build bigger
stakes by buying shares in the market after that, State Owned
Enterprise Minister Tony Ryall said in a telephone interview.  ‘Raped and Pillaged’  “Once those resources become commodified and put on to the
financial marketplace, they are raped and pillaged to maximize
profit for the shareholder,”  Hone Hariwira , leader of the one-
seat Mana Party, said in an interview. “There’s no holding back
in that world, and that’s not something that indigenous people
see as being an intelligent future.”  New Zealand’s land and resource ownership has fueled wars
and racial tension since  James Cook  claimed the islands for
Britain in 1769. The 1840 Treaty of Waitangi promised the Maori
undisturbed ownership of their land, forests and fisheries in
return for becoming British subjects. Alleged breaches of the
treaty have split national opinion since the 1970s when Maori --
now 15 percent of the population and with almost triple the
white  unemployment rate  -- began seeking redress.  The New Zealand Maori Council filed two claims in February
with the  Waitangi Tribunal , an independent panel. The council
argues that Maori rights to water and geothermal resources have
been denied and the IPOs should be stopped. While the tribunal
can only recommend actions to the government, it has helped
return about NZ$1.2 billion of cash and property to Maori
complainants since the early 1990s.  Unresolved Rights  Nobody owns the nation’s water, the  New Zealand Herald 
reported Key as saying in February. A 2009 cabinet paper said
Maori water rights “remain undefined and unresolved.”  “There’s no doubt that it needs to be resolved,” said
Chen in an interview. The tribunal last week granted the claims
urgent hearings, which are likely to be heard before the IPO of
Mighty River, she said.  The dispute follows a public outcry over the government’s
January approval of the sale of 16 dairy farms to China-based
Shanghai Pengxin Group Co. Opponents including the three-seat
Maori Party said parts of New Zealand were being sold off to the
highest bidder. That deal is being reviewed after a rival
bidding group of local dairy farmers led by businessman Michael Fay successfully appealed in court.  Telecom Sale  Key’s sale program is New Zealand’s biggest since the
government raised about NZ$10 billion between 1988 and 1990,
including the sale of  Telecom Corp. of New Zealand Ltd.  to U.S.
phone companies, government figures show.  The country lost its top  credit rating  at Standard & Poor’s
and Fitch Ratings in September. Fitch said that a “key
vulnerability” was New Zealand’s high level of net external
debt, which fell to NZ$146.2 billion, or 72 percent of gross
domestic product, at the end of last year.  Mighty River, which sells electricity to more than 370,000
customers, has been showing bankers and lawyers around its power
stations, workers told Bloomberg News during a site visit. The
company operates hydroelectric and geothermal stations near  Lake
Taupo , New Zealand’s biggest lake, where tourists jet-boat
through river rapids or take winter skiing holidays on Mount
Ruapehu, Jackson’s setting for the fiery Mount Doom.  Almost two thirds of voters in a One News Colmar Brunton
poll this week opposed the planned sales.  ‘Lost and Confused’  “This isn’t an asset sale. It’s a sell-down of a minority
shareholding in the company,” Doug Heffernan, Chief Executive
Officer of Mighty River Power said in an interview at the
company’s Auckland offices. “That point has been lost and
confused in the public’s mind.”  Stephen Franks , a Wellington-based lawyer who advised on
previous state asset sales, said the Maori council is unlikely
to stop the sale and is pressuring the government for a stake.  “The Maori strategy is essentially to raise enough dust
and enough smoke and problems that it becomes worthwhile to the
government to buy them off before the offerings,” said Franks,
previously a member of parliament for the  ACT party , which has
one seat and is in coalition with Key.  Maori groups are seeking “a substantial shareholding
interest” in the IPOs as one form of compensation should the
sale go ahead, the Waitangi Tribunal said last week. Some Maori
oppose the indigenous  council ’s claims after already settling
with the government and forming successful joint ventures with
companies such as Mighty River for years.  Open Letter  Harawira last month wrote an open letter to overseas
investors, warning them to “steer clear” of any share offers,
or they may be “caught up in legal battles and direct action
from citizens determined to protect their own interests.”  Finance Minister  Bill English , Ryall and other officials
spent two weeks in February talking to chiefs of Maori tribes
and their families about the sales in a series of “hui” -- Maori
community meetings -- across the country.  “The assets involve natural resources and to us, those are
taonga and belong to the inhabitants of this place,” Pita Sharples, co-leader of the Maori Party, which is also in
coalition with the government, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s part of our cultural and spiritual identity -- the water
and the mountains and the forest.”  Editors: Adam Majendie,  Bruce Grant .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  