-- Apple Drops Claim That Motorola Mobility Infringed a Patent
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-04T21:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/apple-drops-claim-motorola-mobility-infringed-a-patent-correct-.html
Apple Inc. dropped a claim that
 Motorola Mobility Inc. (MMI)  infringed one of its five patents at
issue in a federal lawsuit in  Chicago , while reserving its
rights to revive the case after appealing a pre-trial ruling.  Apple’s move, disclosed in a court filing today, leaves in
play four of its patents and three Motorola Mobility patents as
the smartphone makers move toward a series of trials before U.S.
Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner.  “There will be four trials, all in quick succession,”
said Posner -- who typically presides over appellate cases -- in
a scheduling order issued yesterday. The trials will address
each company’s liability claims then, if necessary, equitable
issues and damages. The first trial will start on June 11, he
said in a Feb. 29 order.  The Chicago case is one of many in the U.S. and elsewhere
pitting the Cupertino, California-based iPhone maker against
Motorola, which produces phones that use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system.  Google, based in Mountain View,  California , is working to
acquire Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion. That company, based
in Libertyville,  Illinois , was spun off from  Motorola Solutions
Inc. (MSI)  last year.  Related Counterclaim  Apple agreed to a judgment in Motorola’s favor on its
claims involving a patent for what Posner described in a March
19 ruling as “a centralized method for alerting components in a
computer of developments (‘events’) elsewhere in the system.”  In their joint filing today, the companies requested entry
of a judgment of non-infringement based on that March 19 ruling.
Motorola agreed to drop a related counterclaim.  “This joint motion is made subject to Apple’s reservation
of all rights to appeal the court’s claim constructions,” or
how Posner interpreted the patent’s parameters, the companies
said in the joint submission. They also agreed Motorola can
resurrect its counterclaims and defense if Apple’s infringement
claim is revived.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Motorola Inc., 11-cv-08540, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  