-- Areva Predicts Uranium Demand Freeze Until 2014
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-04-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/areva-predicts-uranium-demand-freeze-until-2014-after-fukushima.html
Areva SA (AREVA) , the world’s largest maker
of atomic reactors, predicted the market for uranium will suffer
from a glut before nuclear fuel demand rebounds from 2014 as the
industry reels from last year’s meltdown in Japan.  “In two years, there will be very strong demand on the
market, as new reactors start operating, and as new contracts
with the existing fleet kick in,” Chief Commercial Officer
Ruben Lazo said in a March 26 interview at the company’s
headquarters in Paris. “I’m sure that Japan will restart a few
reactors this year, and complete all necessary measures to
restart many others in 2013 and 2014.”  The tsunami that wrecked the Japanese nuclear site in 2011
has weighed on Areva, whose  shares  have lost 58 percent of their
value since the worst nuclear accident in 25 years.  Japan  has
idled all but one of its 54 reactors, and  Germany  has reversed a
decision to extend the lifespan of its atomic facilities. Still,
Lazo aims to double the order intake from Asia this year from
more than 1 billion euros ($1.34 billion) in 2011, saying market
“fundamentals” remain broadly intact.  The French company is betting that an 80 percent jump in
global energy demand by 2030, combined with rising fuel prices
and the need to cut greenhouse gas emissions, will lead to a 2.2
percent annual increase in the installed base of nuclear plants
in the next two decades.  Energy Mix  “Responsible governments won’t tie the whole industrial
and economic development of their country to a single source of
energy,” Lazo said. “Manufacturers want some predictability in
power prices that can’t be provided by gas, while nuclear is the
only energy that can guarantee some  price stability .”  The accident in Japan forced Areva to idle plants, cut
jobs, write down assets and report a record 2.42 billion loss in
2011 as sales prospects for uranium ore, nuclear fuel and
equipment receded. Areva, which competes with Urenco Ltd.,  USEC
Inc. (USU)  and OAO Techsnabexport on uranium enrichment, ousted its
long-time chief executive officer,  Anne Lauvergeon , last June,
and replaced her with Luc Oursel.  Lazo said he spotted signs on a recent trip to Japan that
the country won’t abandon atomic power outright.  Chubu Electric
Power Co. (9502) , an Areva client, is spending 1 billion euros to erect
a  seawall  to protect three nuclear reactors in Hamaoka south of
 Tokyo  from tsunamis, he said.  Asian Growth  The executive predicts  Asia  will account for about 60
percent of the 300 gigawatts of global nuclear new builds by
2030. Areva, which is building a 1.6 gigawatt reactor called EPR
in France, in Finland and two in  China , is in “very advanced
stage of talks” to sell two additional EPRs to China, which may
complete its safety review this year, Lazo said. It may wrap up
talks to sell two EPRs in  India  in 2012, he said.  Areva is also “very confident” about prospects in the
U.S., where it got a $1 billion contract with the  Tennessee
Valley Authority (3015A)  last year to help complete a nuclear plant in
Alabama, Lazo said. Areva is quickening the certification of the
EPR in the U.S. as it “wants to be a significant player” in
new reactors in the country.  In nuclear reactor construction, “competition is becoming
more aggressive as the nuclear renaissance scenario isn’t there
anymore,” said Lazo. “There’s a bigger number of players
aiming for the same targets.”  Finnish Reactor  In Finland, a utility for which Areva is building an EPR
said March 23 that French company will face GE Hitachi Nuclear
Energy, Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co.,  Mitsubishi Heavy
Industries Ltd. (7011)  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  in next year’s tender. In
Jordan, an Areva-Mitsubishi venture is competing against Russian
and Canadian rivals.  Lazo expects a final contract this year to supply two EPRs
to Electricite de France’s unit in the U.K., where a group of
German utilities on March 29 dropped plans for new builds. Areva
is also working on tenders to be launched this year or next in
countries such as Poland, South Africa, and the  Czech Republic .  Prospects remain more uncertain back home in France, where
Socialist presidential candidate  Francois Hollande  has pledged
to shut the country’s oldest atomic plant by 2017 and cut
reliance on nuclear power should he get elected in May.  France 
generates about 77 percent of its energy from nuclear power now.  “In France, we’re here to implement the energy policy of
the government,” the chief salesman of state-controlled Areva
said. “We’re also here to explain, clarify and provide
information to decision-makers. New builds are cheaper that
other sources of energy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  