-- Petrobras Targeted in Argentina After YPF Lost Licenses
-- B y   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-04-04T16:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/argentina-targets-petrobras-after-revoking-ypf-licenses-1-.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s
state-run oil company, had a concession revoked by  Argentina ’s
Neuquen province as the country steps up pressure on crude
producers to boost investments in output.  Petrobras, as the Rio de Janeiro-based company is known,
failed to invest in the Veta Escondida field, currently not in
operation, the government of Neuquen said yesterday in a
statement on its website. Argenta Argentina SA and Tecpetrol SA,
a unit of Techint Group, also had licenses removed.  YPF SA (YPFD) , Argentina’s largest oil producer, has lost 12
licenses in five provinces since March 14 after President
Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government demanded higher
investment to curb declines in output and rising fuel imports.
Neuquen’s government said it will continue to evaluate fields
where output has fallen and will seek investors to develop those
where licenses were revoked.  “We didn’t expect” Neuquen’s decision, Petrobras Chief
Executive Officer Maria das Gracas Foster said in comments
published by Brazilian newspaper O Globo that were confirmed by
the company’s press office. “We have positive relations with
Argentina and were analyzing future opportunities to stay in the
country.”   Petrobras Argentina SA (PESA) , which Petrobras control with a 67.2
percent stake, fell 4.9 percent to 6.40 pesos at 1:37 p.m. in
Buenos Aires. Yields on its bonds due in 2017 rose 47 basis
points in the past month to 5.1 percent and were up three basis
points. YPF rose 0.1 percent to 123.80 pesos, following a 16
percent slump yesterday after Chubut province said it will
revoke its most productive concession.  Overseas Assets  Petrobras entered Argentina in 2002 when it bought the oil
assets of billionaire Gregorio Perez Companc, after the South
American country’s record $95 billion debt default in 2001.  The Brazilian company’s Argentine assets are its biggest
overseas. It produces most of its oil in the country from the
Puesto Hernandez oil field in Neuquen province, and the Medanito
and El Tordillo fields in the provinces of La Pampa and Chubut.  The Manantiales Behr field, which produced about 10 percent
of Buenos Aires-based YPF’s oil last year, is among four more
licenses the Patagonian province of Chubut plans to revoke.  Seeking Investors  Chubut, located in southern Argentina, is seeking new
investors for the fields it confiscated, state news agency Telam
said on its website today.  Argentina’s Planning Minister Julio de Vido denied a report
by  Buenos Aires  newspaper Clarin that the government is working
on a plan to use state-controlled pensions to buy a stake in
YPF, he said in a statement. The government nationalized its
pension industry in 2008.  Petrobras and YPF are exploring for offshore  oil deposits 
on Argentina’s Atlantic Coast. YPF is considering investments in
the Vaca Muerta oil formation in Neuquen that it says contains
at least 23 billion barrels oil over an 8,000 square kilometer
area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Craze in Santiago at 
 mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  