-- Asian Currencies Fall Most in Two Weeks on Fed Policy Outlook
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-04-04T09:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/asian-currencies-retreat-after-fed-tempers-monetary-easing-bets.html
Asian currencies fell the most in
two weeks after minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s March meeting
showed policy makers are less inclined to stimulate the U.S.
economy further due to an improving job market.  South Korea’s won snapped a three-day rally and Malaysia’s
ringgit fell the most in two weeks as the MSCI Asia-Pacific
 Index (MXAP)  of stocks headed for its biggest loss since Dec. 19. A
transcript of the March 13 Fed meeting released yesterday in
Washington showed it was holding off from increasing monetary
accommodation unless the economic recovery falters, meaning an
increase in the amount of funds available to be invested in
emerging markets probably won’t happen.  “The Fed statement dragged the stocks down and therefore,
the regional currencies are weakening,” said  Hideki Hayashi , an
economist at the Japan Center for Economic Research in Tokyo.  India’s rupee slumped 1 percent to 51.2262 per dollar as of
2:52 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The won declined 0.7 percent to 1,129.41 at the close in Seoul,
Thailand’s baht weakened 0.6 percent to 31 and the ringgit lost
0.5 percent to 3.0665. Financial markets in China,  Hong Kong  and
Taiwan are closed for public holidays.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY) , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-used currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.19
percent, the most since March 20, after reaching a three-week
high yesterday. Its 60-day historical volatility rose to 3.35
percent from 3.33 percent yesterday.  “The  U.S. economy  is currently looking up, which could
decrease inflows into emerging markets,” said Ravi Ranjit,
chief manager at Federal Bank Ltd. in Mumbai.  Korean Dividends  Korea’s currency had the biggest slide since Feb. 16 on
concern foreign investors will repatriate payments to
shareholders made by local companies. KB Financial Group Inc.,
owner of the nation’s largest bank, is scheduled to pay a
dividend on April 6.  “The won is weakening as expectations for monetary
stimulus is damped, and also on speculation overseas investors
are repatriating dividends,” said Lee Jin Ill, a Seoul-based
currency dealer at Hana Bank.  The ringgit fell as crude oil traded in  New York  dropped
0.9 percent to $103.11 a barrel, following a 1.2 percent decline
yesterday. Oil, natural gas and refined petroleum products
accounted for 23 percent of  Malaysia ’s exports in January,
official data show.  “Lower commodity prices will have an impact on the
ringgit,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist at Mizuho
Corporate Bank Ltd. in Singapore. “Stronger oil prices benefit
Malaysia provided they don’t damage the world economy.”  Elsewhere, the Philippine peso weakened 0.3 percent to
42.798 per dollar and Indonesia’s rupiah lost 0.1 percent to
9,140. Vietnam’s dong was steady at 20,830.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 