-- Atlantic Storm Season to Be Below Average, Forecast Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-04-04T14:52:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/atlantic-storm-season-to-be-below-average-forecast-says.html
A cooler Atlantic Ocean will
probably produce 10 named storms in the  hurricane season  that
begins June 1, about half last year’s total, according to
researchers at Colorado State University.  Of those systems, four will probably become hurricanes with
winds of at least 74 miles (119 kilometers) per hour and two may
grow into major storms with winds of 111 mph or more,  according
to the forecast .  “What we’re expecting right now is a somewhat below-
average hurricane season compared to the 1981 to 2010 average,”
said  Phil Klotzbach , lead author of the forecast begun at the
university 29 years ago by Bill Gray, a pioneer in long-range
hurricane predictions. “The take-home message with all of our
forecasts is that it is kind of our best estimate, but it only
takes one storm to make it an active season for you.”  The season, which runs through Nov. 30, is closely watched
because the storms are a threat to oil and natural gas interests
in the  Gulf of Mexico  and agriculture in the South. The Gulf
accounts for 29 percent of U.S. oil output and 40 percent of
refining capacity, while  Florida  is the second-largest citrus
producer behind  Brazil .  Last year, Colorado State predicted in April that there
would be 16 named storms. Nineteen developed, tying with 2010,
1995 and 1887 for the third-most active season, based on records
dating back to 1851.  Weather Patterns  Klotzbach said larger weather patterns will probably have
an impact on the number of storms in the Atlantic this year.  The Pacific Ocean may experience an El Nino warming, which
will increase wind shear across the Atlantic, he said. Wind
shear tears at the structure of hurricanes and can keep weaker
systems from growing into larger storms.  The possibility of the Pacific warming to levels needed to
create additional Atlantic shear is still uncertain, based on
computer models, Klotzbach said.  The models are bad at making predictions about El Nino
during the Northern Hemisphere’s spring from March to June, said
Mike Halpert, deputy director of the U.S. Climate Prediction
Center in  Camp Springs , Maryland.  “This is absolutely the worst time of year to try to
forecast,” Halpert said.  In addition to the warmth of the Pacific, temperatures at
the surface of the Atlantic also play a role in determining how
many hurricanes will form, Klotzbach said.  Atlantic Cooling  The Atlantic surface has cooled in part because of the
weather pattern that left the eastern U.S. warmer than normal
this past winter. A cooler Atlantic, especially off the coast of
 Africa , means there is less energy for storms to draw on as they
develop, Klotzbach said.  The Colorado State outlook is in line with those from
commercial forecasters  MDA EarthSat Weather  in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland , and  Commodity Weather Group LLC  in Bethesda, Maryland.  Both companies predicted 11 storms for this year.  The average season produces 12 named systems, six of which
become hurricanes with three developing into major storms,
according to  Dennis Feltgen , spokesman for the  National
Hurricane Center  in Miami.  Irene, which went ashore in  North Carolina , New Jersey and
 New York  in August, was the first hurricane to strike the U.S.
since Ike hit near Galveston,  Texas , in 2008. There hasn’t been
a major hurricane landfall since Wilma in 2005, the longest such
stretch on record.  A storm gets a name when its winds reach 39 mph. Based on
the averages from 1966 to 2009, the first of the season usually
occurs by July 9 and the first hurricane by Aug. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  