-- Augusta National Chairman Payne Won’t Address Female Membership
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-04T15:35:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/augusta-national-chairman-payne-won-t-address-female-membership.html
Augusta National Golf Club Chairman
Billy Payne said he wouldn’t discuss the organization’s lack of
female members amid questions about a possible invitation to
Virginia “Ginni” Rometty of  International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM)   “All issues of membership remain the private deliberations
of the membership,” Payne said at his annual news conference on
the eve of the Masters Tournament at the club in Augusta,
 Georgia . “That statement remains accurate.”  Augusta National is again under scrutiny for its all-male
membership following the appointment of Rometty as chief
executive officer of IBM, one of three Masters Tournament
sponsors.  While Augusta National has no formal policy against female
members, it hasn’t admitted one in its eight decades. It has
traditionally invited IBM’s chief executive officer for
membership.  “We don’t talk about our private deliberations,” Payne
said. “We especially don’t talk about them when a named
candidate is a part of the question.”  Edward Barbini, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
has previously declined to comment on the issue.  Nine years ago, Martha Burk, then head of the National
Council of Women’s Organizations, staged a small protest near
the front entrance of the club founded in 1933 by golf champion
Bobby Jones and Wall Street financier Clifford Roberts.  Burk had written the previous June to Hootie Johnson, then
Augusta National’s chairman, asking him to to review the club’s
membership policy to avoid it “becoming an issue” during the
2003 tournament. Johnson responded that he wouldn’t be
“bullied” into allowing female members.  “There may well come a day when women will be invited to
join our membership,” Johnson said in a media statement in July
2002. “But that timetable will be ours and not at the point of
a bayonet.”  Sponsor Requests  Burk then wrote to sponsors, including IBM, asking them to
withdraw their support for the tournament. Augusta National
subsequently announced it wouldn’t air commercials during the
2003 event and suspended its sponsorships with IBM, Coca-Cola
and Citigroup for the 2003 and 2004 tournaments. Only IBM
returned in 2005.  As players prepare for tomorrow’s opening round of the
Masters, golf’s first major tournament of the year, the issue
has become part of the discussion. Players, who are invited to
participate, have been reluctant to talk about the club’s
membership.  “It’s a completely private club and they can do what they
want,” Sweden’s Henrik Stenson, the 2009 Players championship
winner, said yesterday at the club’s practice range. “I don’t
really have anything to say on it.”  Previous CEOs  While the club doesn’t disclose the names of its members, a
2010 partial list obtained by Bloomberg News and 2004 documents
published by the Augusta Chronicle and USA Today show the past
four IBM CEOs were members, beginning with John R. Opel, who ran
the company from 1981 to 1985 and died last year. John F. Akers,
IBM’s chief from 1985 to 1993, and Louis V. Gerstner, who helped
turn around IBM as CEO from 1993 to 2002, also were members.  The refusal to consider female membership amid Burk’s
protest prompted the resignations from the club of then-Treasury
Secretary nominee John Snow and former  CBS Corp. (CBS)  Chief Executive
Officer Thomas Wyman, who called the policy “pigheaded.” Wyman
died about five weeks later. Snow was secretary of the treasury
under President  George W. Bush  from 2003 to 2006, and now is
chairman of Cerberus Capital Management LP, an investment firm.  IBM,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  are now the
tournament’s only U.S. sponsors. Their agreements enable the
companies to entertain executives and clients in private
hospitality cabins, tucked into a wooded area along the left
side of the 10th hole.  More CEO Members  Exxon Mobil CEO Rex Tillerson is a member, as is AT&T CEO
 Randall Stephenson .  Ed Whitacre , Stephenson’s predecessor, is a
member and in December gave Stephenson his place as a director
on the U.S. PGA Tour’s board.  Rick Burton, a former chief marketing officer for the U.S.
Olympic Committee, said a Masters sponsorship probably costs at
least $10 million annually.  Augusta didn’t have a black member until 1990, when it
extended an invitation to  Gannett Co. (GCI)  television President Ron
Townsend, who still belongs. That move followed the PGA of
America’s decision to move its annual championship, the
season’s final golf major, from  Alabama ’s Shoal Creek because of
that club’s all-white membership.  Payne, who succeeded Johnson as chairman of the tournament
and the golf club in 2006, has previously said he has “no
specific timetable” on possibly ending all-male membership. He
repeatedly declined to comment on membership issues at today’s
news conference.  Atlanta Olympics  As the chief organizer of the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta,
Payne was known as a progressive leader. His Olympic organizing
team included influential women, including Ginger Watkins, Linda Stephenson and Cindy Fowler.  Since Payne took over as chairman of Augusta National, the
tournament has made changes including a ticketing program for
children, the establishment of an Asian amateur championship and
the creation of the  Masters Tournament  Foundation. The
charitable foundation invests in organizations to help promote
golf globally. Funding comes from private donations, proceeds
from the tournament and sales of a 2012 Tiger Woods Masters-
related video game.  In 2010, Payne publicly criticized the extramarital affairs
of Woods, a four-time Masters winner, saying “our hero did not
live up to the expectations of a role model that we sought for
our children.”  Occasional Golfer  Unlike her predecessors at IBM, Rometty said she plays golf
only occasionally. She and her husband, Mark, prefer scuba
diving and split their time between  White Plains ,  New York , and
 Bonita Springs ,  Florida .  IBM is featured in the tournament’s TV commercials and runs
the event’s website, mobile-phone applications and media-center
technology. IBM’s official sponsorship began 10 years ago,
though it had been involved earlier. The company has run the
masters.com website since 1996.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta  at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  