-- Australia’s Export Slump Intensifies Rate-Cut Pressure: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-04-04T09:47:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/australia-posts-back-to-back-trade-deficits-on-coal-export-slump.html
Australia  unexpectedly posted back-
to-back  trade deficits  as coal and metal exports slumped,
sending the currency lower and intensifying pressure on the
central bank to resume cutting interest rates.  Imports outpaced exports by A$480 million ($493 million) in
February, from a revised A$971 million deficit a month earlier,
the first consecutive shortfalls in two years, a Bureau of
Statistics report showed in Sydney today. That contrasted with
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News  survey  for a A$1.1
billion surplus as exports dropped 2 percent after a 9 percent
decline in January.  The data boost the case for  Reserve Bank  of Australia
Governor  Glenn Stevens  to lower rates at the May 1 policy
meeting because overseas shipments account for about a quarter
of gross domestic product. The Australian dollar rose in six of
the past seven quarters, propelled by A$456 billion in resource
projects by companies such as  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  that are trying
to meet Chinese demand.  Today’s trade figures are “ringing alarm bells,” said
 Annette Beacher , the Singapore-based head of Asia-Pacific
research at TD Securities Inc., who expects the central bank to
lower borrowing costs in May and again in June.  Exports fell in February to A$24.4 billion, the lowest
level in a year, the report showed. The value of coal exports,
the nation’s second-biggest commodity export after iron ore,
plunged 21 percent to A$3.4 billion, the least since March 2011.  Overseas sales of goods and services to India, Japan and
 Korea , which buy about 25 percent of Australian exports, all
declined, it showed.  Dollar Falls  The Australian dollar touched $1.0264 in Sydney, the lowest
level since Jan. 16, from $1.0306 before the data were released.
The S&P/ASX 200 Index of stocks weakened 0.1 percent to 4,332.60
at 2:39 p.m. in Sydney, and three-year notes yielded 3.44
percent, heading for a third straight week of declines.  Imports also weakened, slumping 4 percent to A$24.9 billion
on a 14 percent decline in consumption goods and a 12 percent
drop in machinery and industrial equipment, the report showed.  Traders are pricing in an 87 percent chance the RBA will
reduce borrowing costs by a quarter percentage point at the next
policy meeting, a Credit Suisse Group AG index showed.  Stevens lowered the overnight cash rate target twice late
last year to 4.25 percent. the highest benchmark among major
developed economies. He paused yesterday for a third straight
meeting, while signaling the central bank may resume cutting
rates as soon as next month if weaker-than-expected growth slows
inflation.  Weather Distortions  The trade data may have been distorted by weather for a
second month, economists said. Cyclones in the nation’s
northwest disrupted  iron ore  exports in January and floods in
February swept across Queensland and northern New South Wales,
both key coal producing regions, said Su-Lin Ong, head of
Australian economic and fixed-income strategy at  RBC Capital
Markets  in Sydney.  “While weather distorted, today’s trade data add to the
view of an economy that is struggling,” she said. “Forecasts
for first-quarter GDP are likely to be revised down with net
exports set to detract more significantly from growth.”  China is Australia’s biggest trading partner and its demand
for iron ore, coal and energy drove the nation’s terms of trade,
or export prices relative to import prices, to a record high
last year. Shipments to  China  gained 14 percent in February
after slumping a month earlier as trade slowed during the Lunar
New Year holidays.  Fed, China  Asian stocks fell today for the first time in four days as
the U.S. Federal Reserve signaled it may refrain from more
monetary stimulus. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index declined 1
percent as of 12:27 p.m. in  Tokyo  and Standard & Poor’s 500
Index futures lost 0.4 percent.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  highlighted challenges facing
his nation during a provincial tour over April 1-3, saying some
economic indicators are slowing, according to a statement from
the state-run Xinhua News Agency last night.  Volumes of bulk commodities transported in the nation are
dropping, indicating heavy industries such as steel, cement and
non-ferrous metals encountered difficulties in the first quarter
related to a slowdown in infrastructure construction, Wen said.
The government will release policy fine-tuning measures as soon
as possible, he said, adding that a key area is ensuring funding
for ongoing investment projects.  The government plans to roll out new, large-scale projects
under the country’s five-year plan that can have a big effect on
the economy, he said.  European Monetary Policy  Elsewhere, the  European Central Bank  will leave its
benchmark rate unchanged at 1 percent, according to all 57
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News before today’s decision.  Reports may show that the euro-region economy is struggling
to regain strength after shrinking in the fourth quarter.  Euro-area retail sales probably fell for the second time in
three months in February, according to an economists’ survey. A
monthly survey of  purchasing managers  will probably affirm the
initial measures, which showed euro-area services and
manufacturing contracted in March, economists predict.  U.K. house prices probably fell for the fourth time in five
months, economists predict. The gauge provided by Lloyds Banking
Group Plc’s Halifax mortgage-lending unit probably fell 0.2
percent from February, according to the median forecast of eight
analysts.  German Factories  Still, German factory orders probably rose in February
after unexpectedly falling the previous month. Orders rose 1.5
percent, according to the median forecast of 35 economists.  In the U.S., a report may show that companies added fewer
workers in March than a month earlier. Figures from ADP Employer
Services may show companies added 206,000 workers, according to
the median estimate of 37 economists. That’s down from 216,000
more workers in February.  Services industries in the U.S. probably grew at a slower
pace in March, the  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-
manufacturing index may show. The index fell to 56.8 from 57.3
in February, according to the median forecast of 68 economists.  The slower pace of recovery adds to the case for no change
in U.S.  interest rates . Policy makers yesterday affirmed its
plan, first announced in January, to hold interest rates near
zero through late 2014.  QE3 Plans  The Fed also signaled it is holding off on increasing
monetary accommodation unless the U.S. economic expansion
falters or prices rise at a rate slower than its 2 percent
target, it said in minutes released yesterday of its March 13
meeting.  Australia’s economy lost 15,400 jobs in February as the
sustained strength of the currency hurt employers in tourism and
manufacturing, pushing up the  unemployment rate  for the first
time since August. Even so, at 5.2 percent the nation’s jobless
rate is still less than half the euro area’s 10.8 percent level.  Earlier today, a private survey showed Australia’s services
industry shrank in March, the fifth contraction in the past six
months, as the stronger currency cut sales and curbed new
orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  