-- Austria Rejects Bank Bonds Backed by Rescued Euro Members
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-04-04T13:48:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/austria-rejects-bank-bonds-backed-by-rescued-euro-members-1-.html
The Austrian Central Bank will join
 Germany ’s Bundesbank in rejecting as collateral bank bonds
guaranteed by  member states  receiving aid from the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  “We will do that as well,” Christian Gutlederer, a
spokesman for the Vienna-based institution, said by phone today.
“We are talking about minimal amounts. It will have very little
impact on overall collateral.”  The Bundesbank was the first of the region’s central banks
to make use of a change in European Central Bank collateral
rules announced on March 23. The ECB no longer obliges members
to accept bank bonds guaranteed by governments “whose credit
assessment does not comply with the benchmark for establishing
its minimum requirement for high credit standards.”  While the decision means banks in  Europe ’s three bailed-out
countries -- Greece, Portugal and Ireland -- will no longer be
able to use such bonds to obtain funding through subsidiaries in
Germany and Austria, the banks typically seek the loans via
their own central banks. The Bundesbank currently has less than
500 million euros ($658 million) of those bonds on its balance
sheet, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung reported on March 30.  Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard Chartered Bank in
 London , said countries other than Germany and Austria might also
have reservations about accepting such collateral.  Netherlands, Luxembourg, Finland  “Germany, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Finland would be
the countries most concerned about the quality of the collateral
on the Eurosystem balance sheet,” he said. “It comes amid an
increasing debate about the decentralization of monetary policy.
It does not involve huge amounts of collateral, but it’s not a
positive sign for the ECB.”  Spokesmen for the Bank of  Finland  and central bank of
Luxembourg declined to comment. Herman Lutke Schipholt, a
spokesman for the Dutch central bank, wasn’t immediately
available to comment.  The ECB has loosened its collateral criteria and loaned
banks more than 1 trillion euros for three years to fight off a
credit crunch, prompting Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann to
write a letter to ECB President  Mario Draghi  warning about the
risks the central bank is taking. Weidmann has also called on
officials to start planning for the eventual withdrawal of the
emergency lending measures.  “When all this is said and done, we are really talking
about peanuts,” Draghi said in Frankfurt today, adding that
this was “a very narrow and restricted set.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  