-- Avon CEO Jung’s 2011 Pay Fell 23% Amid Profit Slump, U.S. Probe
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/avon-ceo-jung-s-2011-pay-fell-23-amid-profit-slump-u-s-probe.html
Andrea Jung , chairman and chief
executive officer of  Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , saw her pay fall 23
percent to $10.1 million last year, the company reported
yesterday.  Avon, the world’s largest direct seller of cosmetics, said
in December that Jung, 53, would relinquish the CEO position
amid slumping earnings and a foreign-bribery investigation. She
will become executive chairman as soon as a replacement is
found. On April 2, Avon rejected a $10 billion buyout offer from
perfume maker Coty Inc. as too low.  The company’s board debated firing Jung last year amid
investigations by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
and the  Justice Department  involving possible violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  “We are committed to hiring a new CEO and executing
against what the company believes are its strong long-term
prospects,” Jennifer Dwyer Vargas, an Avon spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement on April 2. “The board has been clear
that with a new CEO, it believes there will be greater
opportunity to improve  shareholder value .”  The New York-based company said in  February  that its
earnings for the year fell 11.5 percent to $526 million on $11.3
billion in sales.  Avon fell 2.3 percent to $22.19 yesterday at the New York
close.  The shares  have risen 27 percent this year, after falling
40 percent in 2011.  Jung will continue as executive chairman for a two-year
term with a base salary of $1 million annually and a bonus
targeted at 100 percent of that amount. Avon reported Jung’s pay
in its annual proxy statement filed with the SEC.  Jung’s compensation decline reflected the fact that the
number of Avon’s salespeople fell 1 percent last year, units
sold were down 2 percent and its operating margin was
“significantly below” target, the company said in the filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  