-- Tax Receipts Buoy State-Local Government Employment Trend
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/tax-receipts-buoy-state-local-government-employment-trend.html
The city of Mesa,  Arizona , fired 125
employees in 2009 as tax collections dropped amid a housing
slump and a recession. Now, it is filling vacancies, training a
class of police recruits for the first time in three years, and
Mayor  Scott Smith  says he’s confident “revenue levels are going
to stabilize.”  As the Phoenix suburb’s experience shows, the worst may be
near an end for city and state governments, and their recovery
could in turn give a lift to the  U.S. economy .  After four years of shuttering fire houses, cutting school
budgets and firing teachers and police, these  governments  are
starting to steady as tax revenues rebound. Public  employment  at
all levels declined by just 7,000 in the first two months of
this year, well down from the 22,000 monthly average in 2011,
according to Labor Department data.  “We’re at a point where we’re nearing the bottom,” said
 Christopher Hoene , director of research with the National League
of Cities in Washington. While some  cities  still are shrinking
staffs, others are “not that far off from some of them hiring
again. In the sense of the business cycle for local governments,
the curve is starting to change.”  The shift could ease the  drag  from public-sector cuts that
have weighed on the national economy, which has been adding
private-sector jobs at an average rate of 214,000 a month for
six months, according to Labor Department data. March numbers
are being released April 6.  Tax Collections Hit  While the  Federal Reserve  cut  interest rates  to record lows
and President Barack Obama’s $831 billion stimulus poured money
into the economy, including funds that saved public-sector jobs,
officials in state capitols and city halls were forced to
balance their budgets when the recession dealt a hit to their
tax collections. With the economy accelerating, tax revenues are
on the rise, which is helping to ease some of the fiscal
strains.  “We are at the cusp where the drag from the government
sector is effectively going to be zero,” said Joseph Lavorgna,
chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New
York , who tracks tax receipts in developing his forecasts.  State and local  tax revenue  rose 4.5 percent last year, the
biggest gain since 2006, and property taxes have increased for
two consecutive quarters, Census data showed March 22. Since
2009, state and city cutbacks have restrained the economy’s
growth more than any time since the early 1940s, according to
Commerce Department data.  ‘Financial Trouble’  “Municipalities are still in big financial trouble, but
they have cut back so much since 2008, especially among
education workers, that I cannot see much more room for further
cuts,” said Francesca Panelli, an economist with Banca Aletti &
C SpA in Milan,  Italy , who was the most accurate forecaster of
U.S. payrolls in the two years ended March 1, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Olivia Penn-Person, 56, of Columbus,  Georgia , who has more
than 30 years of work in social services and teaching, put out
“hundreds” of applications and had around 30 interviews since
2008 before landing a position in Columbus in February as a
full-time substitute teacher.  “Whether it was state, federal or city jobs, they put a
freeze on hiring because they didn’t have the money because of
the economy,” said Penn-Person, who had quit as a teacher in
2008 in Warner Robins, Georgia, about two hours away, when her
husband was transferred. Now, “things may be picking up a
little.” In her new post, “the pay is not great, but it helps
with the bills.”  Government Employment  Government employment has declined by 689,000  jobs  since
April 2009 after increasing by 756,000 the prior three years,
Labor Department data shows.  Total public employment probably will rise by a few
thousand jobs a month in the second half of 2012, forecasts
Deutsche Bank, while IHS Global Insight projects an increase in
2013’s first quarter and Moody’s Analytics predicts a gain for
next year.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited the improvement in a
March 26 speech on the employment outlook.  “Layoffs in the public sector appear to be moderating,”
he said in Arlington, Virginia. While labor-market trends have
seen “positive signs,” reducing 8.3 percent unemployment
further may require more rapid growth, he said.  U.S. employers added about 201,000 jobs in March, based on
the median in a survey of 75 economists by Bloomberg in advance
of the April 6 report. That included a 215,000 increase in
private payrolls, according to the 43 economists who forecast
that figure, meaning public payrolls could show a decline of
about 14,000 jobs.  Renewed Pressure  Not all local governments are seeing a turnaround, and
further setbacks to the economy, housing-price slides or federal
budget cuts to schools and other local aid could bring renewed
pressure. Right now,  Detroit , Providence,  Rhode Island , and
Stockton,  California , are among cities struggling to avert
bankruptcy after being pushed to the breaking point.  In Baltimore, property taxes in the coming budget year will
fall for the first time since the real-estate crash because of
the way changing assessments are phased in, said Andrew Kleine,
the city’s budget director.  Baltimore has eliminated some 1,000 jobs since 2009,
largely by cutting vacant positions, with 200 workers fired.
Next year, the city may cut another 230 positions, about 40 of
which are filled by workers who may avoid facing firing by
transferring or retiring early.  “I’m not sure that’s a dramatic change,” Kleine said.
“As I see it, we’re not out of the woods by any means.”  Worst Fiscal Crisis  Other governments are steadying from the worst fiscal
crisis since the Great Depression. Harold Schaitberger, general
president of the International Association of Fire Fighters,
said his approximately 300,000-member union has started to grow
again, partly because of federal grants that have helped keep
fire fighters on the job.  “We have turned the corner,” he said. “We’re starting to
see the cities show some signs of economic life.”  Mesa’s revenue may rise as much as 5.5 percent in the
coming budget year. The city is part of the Phoenix metropolitan
area, where housing prices have dropped by more than half and
the resulting recession lowered taxes tied to consumer sales.  “We didn’t know where the bottom was,” Smith said. “This
year, our finances have not rebounded. They’re not anywhere
close to where they were in the peak of 2006 and 2007 but the
good news is they’re not headed down anymore.”  No More Cuts  New Jersey ’s Camden County doesn’t plan more employment
cuts after reducing its workforce by more than 30 percent to
1,481, said spokesman Dan Keashen. The county also is working
with the state to overhaul the local police department and put
more officers back on the streets of its biggest city, Camden,
whose force was slashed by almost half in January 2011.  “Really the eye of the storm has passed by, hopefully,”
Keashen said.  For states, the recovering economy has caused tax
collections to rise faster than state officials predicted when
they put together budgets last year, leaving states including
 Michigan  and  Colorado  with extra money. In New Jersey, Governor
Chris Christie is counting on a 7 percent jump in  tax revenue 
next year and has called for a reduction in income taxes.  In Lansing, Michigan, 193 people packed into the Michigan
Library and Historical Center last month to apply for police
jobs, some after waiting years for openings, said state trooper
Marco Jones, who has been on the job for 22 years and works as a
recruiter. Governor  Rick Snyder  has proposed using part of the
state’s budget surplus to add officers.  “It was tough at times knowing that we didn’t have the
bodies out there,” Jones said. “But it’s getting better.”  Smaller Shortfalls  States project deficits of $49 billion for the next fiscal
year, less than half the shortfall a year earlier, according to
the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a Washington-based
research organization that advocates against policies that it
says hurt the poor and middle class.  “Certainly the pace of decline is going to start
slowing,” said Nicholas Johnson, an analyst who tracks states
for the group. “On balance, I think we’re at or near the
bottom. The question then is, are we going to get recovery?
That’s even harder to predict.”  The biggest risk to the outlook for public hiring comes
from federal cutbacks, primarily postal jobs, said Mike
Montgomery, economist at IHS Global Insight in Lexington,
 Massachusetts . The U.S. Postal Service’s employment losses will
be “massive” and weigh on total federal employment, he said.  The postal service predicts an annual loss of $18.2 billion
by 2015 and is shutting as many as 4,800 post offices and
cutting as many as 220,000 jobs.  Federal Cuts  Automatic Pentagon budget cuts could take effect next year
if the congressional supercommittee fails to meet deficit-
reduction goals. Congress probably won’t let the cuts kick in
and will replace them with alternative spending reductions or
tax increases, said Gregory Daco, another IHS Global Insight
economist.  Even as public-sector jobs stabilize, Montgomery said the
move to expand hiring will be slow. “It will be a year of fewer
pink slips,” he said. “Most places seem to be near the bottom
of being desperate,” though “very few” governments will raise
taxes to add jobs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net 
William Selway in  Washington  at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net 
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  