-- Taxpayers as Greek Creditor Put Onus on Politicians: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-04-04T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/taxpayers-as-greek-creditor-put-onus-on-politicians-euro-credit.html
European taxpayers hold most Greek
public debt in the wake of last month’s bond swap and a second
bailout, increasing chances the rescue will stay on track as
euro leaders channel loans to  Athens  to repay themselves.  Of Greece’s 266 billion euros ($351 billion) of debt, about
194 billion euros -- or 73 percent -- is held by the  European
Central Bank , euro-area governments and the  International
Monetary Fund , according to the Greek Debt Management Office in
Athens. In 2010, before the first bailout, Greece owed about 310
billion euros, all to the private sector.  As the possibility of a third bailout looms, the onus is on
Greek leaders to follow through on austerity commitments and on
the euro’s guardians to hold together the 17-nation currency
bloc. The yield on Greek  government bonds  maturing in February
2023 rose 368 basis points to 22.13 percent since March 12, the
day the securities started trading after the biggest sovereign
debt restructuring.  Redemptions ({1004Z)  in 2015, the year after the
European lifeline is due to run out, amount to 8.1 billion euros
owed mainly to the ECB, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “With little prospect of  Greece  being able to sell debt to
anyone by 2015, and assuming the domestic consensus to stay in
the euro doesn’t break down,  Europe  would have little choice but
to lend more to the country,” said  Riccardo Barbieri , chief
European economist at Mizuho International Plc in London. “It
is a question of ensuring the ECB gets repaid.”  Greece won the extra public loans this year after private
creditors forgave 100 billion euros of debt in March. The rate
on the February 2023 Greek bonds were 10.06 percentage points
higher than comparable Portuguese securities and 15.23
percentage points higher than Irish debt of similar maturity.  Fifth Recession  Greece is in its fifth year of a recession, with record-
high unemployment of 21 percent in December and a  budget deficit 
equal to about 9 percent of gross domestic product last year.
Debt, at 165 percent of GDP in 2011, is targeted to fall to no
lower than 116 percent in 2020.  The economic case for more aid risks running up against
political skepticism in donor nations about propping up Greece,
which got an initial package of 110 billion euros 23 months ago.  Bailout fatigue in euro nations like  Germany , the
Netherlands and  Finland  means it’s important for Greece, which
is due to hold elections in the coming weeks, to enact the
budgetary and economic overhaul tied to the second rescue and
lose its “bad student” tag, according to Silvio Peruzzo, an
economist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  London .  ‘Degree of Commitment’  “I think there will be a third package from 2015 through
2020 because Greece will need to pay the public-sector wages and
switch on the lights,” Peruzzo said by phone on April 3. “But
implementation of the current program is going to be very tough.
If Greece shows a higher degree of commitment, I think Europe
will be more willing to be a bit more accommodative.”  Opinion surveys show as many as eight parties may win seats
in Greece’s 300-member legislature.  New Democracy , headed by
Antonis Samaras, who has criticized the austerity package while
supporting the interim government of appointed Prime Minister
 Lucas Papademos , leads with about 20 percent of the vote. No
date has been set for the balloting.  Mizuho’s Barbieri said the election, which is risky to the
extent that it may show weaker support for mainstream parties
that back euro membership, is also an opportunity for the next
Greek government to take greater “ownership” of the nation’s
so-called adjustment program.  “So far they’ve been cornered into accepting the program,
but they haven’t fully implemented it,” he said. “Maybe they
will after the elections.”  IMF Support  Scope for relief on publicly held debt may be limited after
the euro area extended maturities and cut  interest rates  on
previous emergency loans to Greece. In addition, the IMF is
scaling back its support for the country, contributing a smaller
share to the new rescue than to the initial one.  The ECB warned last month that the second bailout of Greece
risks collapsing unless the political class challenges “vested
interests” to achieve a “substantial internal devaluation,”
including through cuts in private-sector wages.  “Without a regime change in policy implementation and a
much broader political consensus in favor of painful but
necessary reforms, there is a high risk that the program
derails,” ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said on
March 27. “Political courage is needed more than ever.”  At the same time, Asmussen said Greece may continue to get
by as most policy makers want to keep Greece in the single
currency because an exit would risk destabilizing European
financial markets.  “A country leaving the euro area would give incalculable
risks to financial stability of the euro area as a whole,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  