-- Bahrain Opposition Blames Government Over Hunger-Strike Activist
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-04-04T07:21:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/bahrain-opposition-blames-government-over-hunger-strike-activist.html
Bahrain’s opposition criticized the
government over its treatment of a jailed activist who has been
on hunger strike since February.  Abdulhadi al-Khawaja, who was jailed for taking part in
protests against the government last year, has been transferred
to the clinic of the Public Security Fort for constant medical
observation and care, the Information Affairs Authority said in
an emailed statement today. His hemoglobin levels are low though
not critical and he has been taking fluids, mineral supplements,
glucose and juice on a daily basis, the statement said.  Al-Wefaq, the largest opposition group, said in an emailed
statement yesterday that al-Khawaja’s continued detention was a
“reckless disregard for human life and a clear and loud
violation of the human conscience.” It said that any
deterioration in his condition will aggravate the situation in
the country and “the regime is responsible for the
consequences.”  Al-Khawaja began a hunger strike on Feb. 8 to protest
against the life prison term he was given by a military court.
He was among hundreds of Bahraini activists arrested in March
and April last year for their alleged involvement in a month of
mass protests led by members of the country’s Shiite Muslim
majority.  Tensions have simmered in the island nation since the
government cracked down on last year’s demonstrators, who took
to the streets to demand democracy and equal rights. At least 35
people were killed between Feb. 14 and April 15 last year,
according to the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry,
which investigated the unrest.  The opposition says more than 30 others have died from tear
gas inhalation and torture. Small-scale protests are still
taking place daily in Shiite villages and sometimes spill over
into the capital, Manama.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  