-- Baht Drops to Two-Month Low After Fed View Boosts Dollar Demand
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-04-04T08:30:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/baht-drops-to-two-month-low-after-fed-view-boosts-dollar-demand.html
Thailand ’s baht fell to the weakest
level in two months after the  Federal Reserve  signaled the  U.S.
economy  won’t probably need further monetary easing, bolstering
sentiment toward the dollar.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar  Index (ADXY)  dropped for a
second day after minutes of a March Fed policy meeting released
yesterday showed that additional stimulus isn’t likely unless
growth in the world’s largest economy falters. Thai government
bonds fell and interest-rate swaps rose after official data
yesterday showed inflation quickened last month.  “Optimism more cash will be available for higher-yielding
assets has waned now, weighing on stocks and regional
currencies,” said  Hideki Hayashi , a researcher at the Japan
Center for Economic Research in  Tokyo . “Inflation remains a
concern, and there is speculation the next monetary-policy move
will be a hike rather than a cut.”  The baht dropped 0.6 percent, the most since March 1, to 31
per dollar as of 3:27 p.m. in Bangkok, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It touched 31.02 earlier, the weakest
level since Feb. 2. One-month implied volatility, a measure of
foreign-exchange swings used to price options, was little
changed at 4.52 percent.  Consumer prices  climbed 3.45 percent in March from a year
earlier, compared with an increase of 3.35 percent in February,
the Ministry of Commerce said yesterday. Retail fuel prices in
Thailand have risen more than 20 percent since the start of the
year on costlier crude and lower state subsidies, Energy Policy
and Planning Office data show.  The yield on the 3.25 percent government bonds due June
2017 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 3.71
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The one-year onshore interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, added one basis point to
3.11 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 