-- Bank-Supported Muni Market Faces ‘Headwinds,’ Moody’s Says
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n   a n d   G r e g   C h a n g
-- 2012-04-04T21:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/bank-supported-muni-market-faces-headwinds-moody-s-says-1-.html
The market for bank-supported
municipal debt, including variable-rate demand bonds, may face
“headwinds” this year because of possible cuts in bank
ratings, Moody’s Investors Service said.  Top short-term ratings for both  Bank of America Corp . and
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  are under review for a downgrade, according to
the credit-rating company. Losing the top grade may cause
interest rates on $34.7 billion of municipal bonds to spike as
money-market funds redeem the debt and dealers can’t resell it,
Moody’s said in an e-mailed statement.  “Issuers whose remarketings fail or who are unable to
arrange extensions or replacements for expiring support
facilities may face severe cash-flow pressure as they confront
higher interest cost and accelerated amortization,” Moody’s
said in the report.  During the credit crisis, interest rates on so-called
variable-rate demand bonds, often owned by tax-exempt money-
market funds, surged after bond insurers and some banks lost
their top-credit ratings. The increase in borrowing costs hit
already cash-strapped cities, hospitals and schools.  Standby Agreement  Variable-rate demand bonds are long-term securities
offering short-term  interest rates  because investors can demand
their money on short notice and turn the bonds in for sale to
another buyer. To assure investors there will be money
available, governments hire banks to provide standby bond
purchase agreements or letters of credit.  The lingering effects of the recession that ended in 2009
and  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis have put stress on bank
credit ratings.  New regulations intended to strengthen the financial system
may also curb banks’ appetite for providing credit support,
Moody’s said.  “Weakening credit profiles of some banks may alter their
ability or willingness to renew or make new commitments to this
market going forward and will make the extension and
substitution of expiring support facilities more challenging
than it was in 2011,” Moody’s said.  State and local governments didn’t have issues resolving
the expiration of 1,800 letters of credit and standby bond
purchase agreements on Moody’s rated debt last year, the company
said.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Chang at 
 gchang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  