-- Belka Says Poland May Raise Rates Even as Bank-Watchers Doubt
-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-04T17:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/belka-says-poland-may-raise-rates-even-as-bank-watchers-doubt.html
Polish central bank Governor Marek
Belka comments on the outlook for  interest rates  after the
Monetary Policy Council left interest rates unchanged for a 10th
month.  The following are selected comments from Belka at a news
briefing in Warsaw following the rate decision.  On inflation and a possible rate increase:  “I have the impression that central bank watchers aren’t
giving credence to our concern about persistent inflation, which
is much higher than the Monetary Policy Council’s tolerance
range. We wanted to send a clear signal that we are seriously
considering a rate increase. Because it depends on the economic
situation, then nothing is set in stone. But believe me, we are
definitely approaching that stage.  ‘‘It hinges on the whole data package: industrial
production, retail sales, the labor market, wages, employment.
All these measures will determine whether we’ll consider a
potential interest rate increase next month.  ‘‘It depends more on data about our economic situation and
less on the monthly inflation readings. Here, we could see some
improvement, but that will to a large extent result from a
statistical base effect. If you look at monthly inflation prints
it looks like they’re dancing around. For the same statistical
reasons, we expect that indicator to rise at the beginning of
the summer.  ‘‘We need to make sure we’re not running our monetary
policy based on very volatile monthly figures. That’s why I
wouldn’t read too much into the monthly inflation numbers but
would rather look into what’s happening in the wider economy.
What we want to know is whether the anticipated economic
slowdown is really happening and how deep it is. I have an
impression that at least some of the council members are much
more optimistic about the prospects for the economy.  ‘‘What really worries us is that consumer-price inflation
is sticking stubbornly above 4 percent and there isn’t any
declining trend.  ‘‘A possible rate increase would be a demonstration of our
faith in the strength of the Polish economy.’’  On the zloty outlook:  ‘‘It’s like reading tea leaves. A lot depends on sentiment
towards  emerging markets . The zloty’s a very unstable currency.  ‘‘The first months of the year were very good when it comes
to zloty strength but we have to say that the  exchange rate  is
now closer to the fundamentals.  ‘‘A considerable portion of the zloty’s appreciation
potential has already been realized.’’  On economic growth:  ‘‘Everything suggests that GDP growth was also around 4
percent in the fourth quarter.’’  On monetary policy:  ‘‘We’re among the few countries in the world, and perhaps
the only one, to conduct a normal monetary policy in abnormal
times.’’  To contact the reporters on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   Dorota Bartyzel at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  