-- Best Buy May Be Cut to Junk at S&P Amid Small-Store Shift
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t   a n d   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-04-04T20:13:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/best-buy-may-be-cut-to-junk-at-s-p-as-closings-show-weakness.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  may have its  credit
rating  lowered to junk by  Standard & Poor’s , which said the
world’s largest electronics retailer needs to change its
business model after previous steps to improve results failed.  The company’s BBB- rating, the lowest level of investment
grade, was placed on credit watch with negative implications,
New York-based S&P said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian Dunn  is closing 50 big-box
stores and cutting staff jobs, generating savings to spend on
promotions and training store employees. The company said last
week it planned to add 100 smaller-format Best Buy Mobile stores
in the U.S. in the current fiscal year.  “These actions underscore that its current business model
is not working and that the steps taken to date have not been
enough to improve performance,” Jayne Ross, an S&P analyst in
 New York , said today in a statement.  Traders already are treating some of Best Buy’s debt as if
it was junk. The company’s $650 million of 5.5 percent notes due
March 2021 fell 5 cents to 91.8 cents on the dollar to yield 6.7
percent at 3:56 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The average yield on BB-rated bonds was 5.9 percent
yesterday, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Moody’s Investors Service rates Richfield, Minnesota-based
Best Buy Baa2, two levels above junk, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Revenue Trails  Best Buy’s revenue of $16.6 billion in the quarter ended
March 3 trailed analysts’ projections of $17.1 billion after the
retailer trimmed discounts following the holiday season. The
company increased promotions during the Black Friday weekend in
late November and in December to win sales from retailers
including Amazon.com Inc. and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   The closing of the 50 big-box stores in the U.S., where
Best Buy operates about 1,100, is part of planned cost cuts
totaling $800 million in the next three years, including $250
million this year. The retailer closed 11 big-box stores in the
U.K. last year as well as outlets in Turkey and  Shanghai .  “This is a sales and business-model problem more than a
financial problem at the moment,” Carol Levenson, an analyst at
debt-research firm Gimme Credit LLC in  Chicago , said in an e-
mail. Best Buy is “not in a borrowing mode” so higher funding
costs won’t hurt it much, she said.  Best Buy Mobile  The company will expand its Best Buy Mobile stores to as
many as 800 outlets by its fiscal 2016 from 305 now as part of
Dunn’s plan to generate revenue from warranties, accessories and
connections between phones, tablets and other electronics.  The speed at which Best Buy can adjust its retail model
amid “the changing dynamics of the consumer-electronics
industry” will influence S&P’s assessment, Ross said.  Bond traders have anticipated a downgrade for a few months,
Jody Lurie, a corporate credit analyst at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. A
downgrade may impede Best Buy from executing its plan, Lurie
said.  “If they get dinged into junk by S&P, it’s a lot harder
for them to find the financing to make those changes,” Lurie
said.  Best Buy fell 2.6 percent to $22.95 at the close in New
York. The shares have declined 1.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net ;
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  