-- Big Media Tussles With Tiny Boxee Over the Future of TV
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/big-media-tussles-with-tiny-boxee-over-the-future-of-tv.html
Boxee Inc., a  New York  startup that
makes software for showing Internet video on televisions, is
heading to Washington to challenge some of the biggest names in
the  media industry .  The company is fighting a proposed Federal Communications
Commission rule backed by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , News Corp. and Walt
Disney Co. that would let cable operators encrypt the TV
transmissions that are delivered to U.S. homes. That means
anyone trying to watch cable TV on a Boxee device would only see
static, even if they were paying for a cable subscription.  Boxee, which has previously feuded with Hollywood-backed
Hulu LLC, wants to be able to replace traditional cable boxes
with its own software and hardware, rather than equipment
endorsed by Comcast and other cable providers. At stake is
whether media companies can restrict their customers from a
wider range of options -- a battle that the technology industry
needs to fight in  Washington , Boxee says.  “Definitely startups, but tech in general, don’t focus on
D.C. as much,” said Avner Ronen, chief executive officer of
Boxee, which has 45 employees. “We’re not speaking D.C.-speak
or FCC-speak, for good or for worse.”  Ronen has an uphill battle ahead. In  the October proposal ,
which was put forth before Boxee voiced its opposition, the FCC
wrote that the change “will not substantially affect
compatibility between cable service and consumer electronics
equipment for most subscribers.” That’s not true, Ronen said,
and he’s working to convince the FCC of that. Neil Grace, a
spokesman for the agency, said the FCC hasn’t reached a decision
on whether to pass the rule.  ‘Without Merit’  Sena Fitzmaurice, a spokeswoman for Philadelphia-based
Comcast, declined to comment beyond public FCC filings. In those
statements, Comcast has encouraged regulators to pass the rule
and said Boxee’s concerns were “without merit.”  Jack Horner , a spokesman for  News Corp. (NWSA)  in New York,
declined to comment. Burbank, California-based Disney didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  The Boxee Box is a $180 device made by D-Link Corp. In a
game-changing development, the company also began selling a $49
accessory in January that can receive some TV channels through
cable, such as TBS or the Food Network, without needing to lease
hardware from a cable operator.  “Boxee in particular is a product that focuses on choice
and breadth,” said Ross Rubin, an analyst for NPD Group in  Port
Washington , New York. The Live TV accessory is “one of the few
weapons they have to deliver a greater swath of programming.”  Enabling Competitors?  If cable companies can’t encrypt their signal, they are
enabling the kinds of technology that could ultimately cause
customers to drop their subscriptions altogether, said
Christopher King, an analyst for Stifel Nicolaus & Co.  For instance, if someone can get cable, Hulu and Netflix
service from the same Boxee device, they may decide they don’t
need the cable portion anymore. Cable companies also worry about
noncustomers pirating their signal and watching it on
unauthorized equipment.  “The more controls they have over that distribution pipe,
the better off they’re going to be,” King said.  Technology companies are often ignored in regulatory and
legislative discussions, Ronen said. Startups don’t get involved
with lobbying because they’re more concerned about attracting
millions of users quickly and they’re on a tight budget, he
said. Boxee has more than 2 million users.  Facebook Mention  Nick Miller, a 26-year-old intern who managed Boxee’s
social-network feeds, learned of the FCC rule through a message
posted to the company’s Facebook page in December.  Miller, Ronen and Melissa Marks, Boxee’s only lawyer, took
a train to Washington to meet with FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  on Feb. 1. Ronen maintained the startup aura by
wearing a Boxee hoodie rather than a suit.  “We’ve put on our lobbying hats,” Miller said. “There’s
no attempt by the regulatory groups to actually talk to us.”  Boxee has feuded with media giants before. Hulu, an online
TV service backed by Comcast, News Corp. and  Disney (DIS) , has blocked
Boxee’s software from accessing Hulu programs.  During congressional hearings for Comcast’s acquisition of
NBCUniversal in 2010, then NBCUniversal CEO  Jeff Zucker  said
Boxee was “illegally taking the content that was on Hulu
without any business deal.”  The media industry complains that technology companies
fight against their anti-piracy measures without offering
alternatives or adopting industry-approved standards.  CableCARD System  The  National Cable & Telecommunications Association , a
cable-industry trade group, wants Boxee to use a different
protocol called CableCARD to access live programming. The
organization described Boxee as a competitor to cable operators
that’s trying to prevent them from “modernizing their
networks.” Boxee says CableCARD would significantly increase
the cost of its hardware because the system requires the company
to install a card in its boxes and pay service fees.  The  Consumer Electronics Association , meanwhile, opposes
the FCC’s cable encryption proposal.  “The FCC should not act piecemeal,” Julie Kearney, a
spokeswoman for the electronics trade group, said in an e-mail.
Cable companies should adopt a system “based on open standards,
that will promote competition and will give consumers new
choices -- other than simply accepting another cable box.”  The  AllVid Tech Company Alliance , a group that includes
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Sony Corp., also opposes the proposal. An
executive on Google’s legal team in Washington told Boxee that
Google hasn’t gotten involved directly because it’s not a
pressing issue for the company’s business, said Miller, the
intern. Google didn’t respond to a request for comment.  Boxee only has about $50,000 to spend on lobbying, Ronen
said. Compare that with the combined $30.6 million spent by
Comcast, News Corp. and Disney last year, according to the
 OpenSecrets.org  site of the Center for Responsive Politics,
though that includes lobbying on a wide range of issues.  “It’s a lot of money,” Ronen said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in  San Francisco  at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  