-- Lou Gehrig’s Disease May Bring Biogen $1 Billion Payoff
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-04-04T20:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/biogen-seeks-1-billion-payoff-from-solving-lou-gehrig-puzzle.html
Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB)  Chief Executive
Officer George Scangos was skeptical when he learned company
researchers were pursuing a new treatment for Lou Gehrig’s
disease. No one knows the cause of the illness that killed the
famous baseball player more than 70 years ago, and no medicine
for it has been shown to slow its advance for long.  Scangos changed his mind after he took charge two years ago
and reviewed data about dexpramipexole. The compound, which may
slow disease progression, is now in the final stages of clinical
trials required for U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval,
with results expected this year.  “I don’t know any disease that’s in more need of therapy
than ALS,” said Scangos, whose company is the world’s largest
maker of drugs for multiple sclerosis, in a telephone interview.
“It’s certainly risky, but the data speaks for itself. So we
made a calculated bet.”  ALS, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, affects about 30,000
people at any time in the U.S., causing nerve damage that leads
muscles to shut down progressively over three to five years
until most patients die from respiratory failure.  Lou Gehrig ,
who played for the  New York Yankees , retired from baseball in
1939 when he was diagnosed with the disease, and died two years
later, bringing wider awareness to ALS yet hardly any
treatments.  Sanofi’s Rilutek  There’s one drug on the market, Paris-based Sanofi’s
Rilutek, and it provides only a modest benefit in reducing ALS’s
progression. Rilutek has U.S. sales of about $50 million,
according to  Eric Schmidt , an analyst with Cowen & Co. in  New
York .  The market for dexpramipexole, if it’s approved, may top $1
billion a year, Schmidt estimates. The company paid $80 million
in cash and stock for a licensing deal in August 2010 with
closely held Knopp Biosciences, which first developed the drug,
and will pay an additional $265 million if certain regulatory
and sales goals are met.  The compound looked promising enough in earlier trials by
Knopp to attract the attention of Al Sandrock, Weston,
Massachusetts-based Biogen’s head of neurology research and a
former physician who worked with ALS patients. It’s designed to
improve functioning of the mitochondria, the energy producers in
cells, and to provide protection to neurons under stress.  Trial Results  Phase 2 trials showed that after 12 weeks, people on the
highest dose of dexpramipexole had about a 35 percent slowing of
ALS progression compared with patients taking a placebo, said
Merit Cudkowicz, principal investigator of the phase 2 and phase
3 trials and director of the ALS Multidisciplinary Clinic at
 Massachusetts General Hospital  in Boston.  Patients given higher doses of the medicine got better
results, Cudkowicz said in a telephone interview. “It was a
nice dose-dependent effect. We didn’t expect that at 12 weeks.”  Biogen’s phase 3 trial, generally the last stage before
review by regulators, enrolled its first patient in March 2011,
and the study was filled within four to five months. That’s half
the time a trial this size, involving about 900 patients, would
normally take, Cudkowicz said. It was the fastest study
enrollment in Biogen’s history.  This doesn’t guarantee the treatment will work, researchers
and others caution. There have been as many as 20 consecutive
failed studies of experimental medicines for ALS, Cowen’s
Schmidt wrote in a February research note, citing physician
consultants.  Lithium’s No Benefit  In 2010, data published in the journal Neurology showed
that lithium -- thought to be helpful for ALS patients after a
small Italian study -- didn’t provide any benefit. In 2003, a
study published in the Annals of Neurology showed that creatine,
an over-the-counter supplement taken by many for the disease,
doesn’t help.  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH) , the biotechnology company purchased
last year by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  for $6.2
billion, struggled for years in the 1990s to get a drug called
Myotrophin approved before giving up as trial results failed to
persuade regulators.  For some patients, Biogen’s medicine is their best hope.
“I’d be waiting at the pharmacy for it as soon as it’s FDA-
approved,” said Laura Tuttle, a registered nurse who was
diagnosed with ALS in 2009, too long ago to be eligible for
Biogen’s phase 3 study.  Her first hint of the disease came in April 2009, when she
was walking through an airport and noticed her left foot
“wasn’t cooperating.” She wasn’t diagnosed though until the
end of that year, after she’d started tripping and falling.
Having worked with ALS patients, she’d already guessed she had
the disease. Tuttle said she finally told her physicians,
“’What’s it going to take for us to call it what it is?’ It was
almost as if they were afraid to tell me.”  Power Wheelchair  Tuttle now gets around in a power wheelchair and occupies
only the first floor of her house outside  Boston . Her husband is
her primary caregiver. She has participated in studies for two
experimental treatments for ALS, including ceftriaxone, an
antibiotic in phase 3 trials. It had to be administered
intravenously twice a day, and infusions took about two hours
every morning and evening, she said.  Biogen’s dexpramipexole is a pill, another reason patients
are so excited by it. The last study turned up no major safety
concerns.  Some patients want to know why a medicine that’s shown
safety and some efficacy in earlier trials isn’t being made
available immediately, said Lucie Bruijn, chief scientist at the
ALS Association. She cautions that although dexpramipexole is
promising, “this is nowhere near a cure.”  Still, patients
who’ve seen Biogen’s success with multiple sclerosis, a disease
of the central nervous system that can cause limb numbness, hope
the company can accomplish the same in ALS, she said.  FDA Application  Biogen applied for FDA approval earlier this year for BG-
12, its first pill for MS, which may draw as much as $3 billion
in annual revenue if approved, according to estimates from
Cowen’s Schmidt and other analysts. The company also makes
Avonex, an injectible treatment for MS that had revenue of $2.7
billion last year, and Tysabri, an intravenous therapy that sold
$1.1 billion.  Biogen declined less than 1 percent to $127.82 at 4 p.m.
New York time. The shares have gained 74 percent in the last 12
months.  The data from Biogen’s phase 3 trial in ALS are expected in
the second half of this year, and the medicine is on a fast-
track path with the FDA.  “This is far from a long shot,” CEO Scangos told
investors at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s annual health-care
conference in January. “We are genuinely hopeful that we will
be able to provide meaningful therapy for the thousands, tens of
thousands, of ALS patients who right now have very little to
help them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  