-- Blackstone Said to Buy $800 Million of Dexus’s Warehouses
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u   a n d   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-04-05T07:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/blackstone-said-to-agree-to-purchase-69-u-s-warehouses.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  agreed to buy 69
warehouses valued at about $800 million from Australia’s  Dexus
Property Group (DXS) , expanding its bet on a U.S. economic recovery,
according to a person with knowledge of the deal.  The properties have a total of 16 million square feet (1.5
million square meters) and are located throughout the U.S.’s
southern, mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the information is private.
Blackstone owns more than 45 million square feet of industrial
real estate through a Chicago-based company called  IndCor
Properties Inc.   Dexus is in exclusive talks with an undisclosed buyer for
the sale of the properties, and a transaction is conditional on
satisfactory due diligence and approval by its board, the
Sydney-based company said in a statement to the Australian stock
exchange yesterday.  Peter Rose , a spokesman for New York-based
Blackstone, declined to comment. Dexus spokesman Ben Leeson
declined to comment beyond the company’s statement.  U.S.  warehouse owners  have seen a net gain in occupied
space for six quarters as the economy begins to pick up,
according to a March 22 report from  Green Street Advisors Inc. ,
a property research firm in  Newport Beach ,  California . While
“industrial fundamentals are slowly recovering,” an increase
in rents “remains elusive,”  John Stewart , a senior analyst at
Green Street, said in the report.  Dexus shares rose 2.3 percent to 90.5 Australian cents at
the close in Sydney, the highest since Feb. 24. The shares have
gained 9 percent so far this year, compared with a 6.5 percent
increase in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index. The Blackstone
transaction was reported yesterday by Real Estate Alert.  West Coast Focus  Dexus, which is focusing its U.S. operations on the
nation’s west coast, paused disposals in other parts of the
country last year as it sought to boost occupancies to achieve
better sale prices. It said on Feb. 15 that it would resume its
U.S. sales and seek to dispose of its European industrial
properties within 18 months.  The company,  Australia ’s biggest owner and manager of
office properties, appointed an agent earlier this year to seek
a buyer for all its U.S. industrial properties outside the west
coast, it said yesterday.  Dexus valued its industrial assets at A$1.7 billion as of
Dec. 31, with the U.S. properties accounting for $1.3 billion.
Warehouses in the center and east coast of the U.S. made up 49
percent of those, it said in its annual review in September.  Blackstone Real Estate  Blackstone and other big private equity managers have
sought to diversify their businesses after the 2008 financial
crisis eroded investor appetite for traditional buyouts.
Blackstone’s real estate unit oversaw $31.2 billion of fee-
earning assets as of Dec. 31, up 16 percent from a year earlier
and 32 percent from the end of 2009. Profit from the division
jumped 56 percent to $1 billion in 2011 from a year earlier.  The firm raised more than $10 billion in less than a year
for its next real estate fund and is seeking $2 billion more
this year,  a person familiar with the plans said in February.
The new fund would be the biggest private equity real estate
pool ever.  Blackstone in June acquired the U.S. malls of Melbourne-
based  Centro Properties Group , now restructured and renamed
 Centro Retail Australia (CRF) , for about $9.4 billion, the firm’s
biggest deal since the leveraged buyout boom collapsed in 2007.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net ;
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  