-- BP Pursues Namibia Crude Amid No Known Discovery of Oil: Energy
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-04-05T15:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/bp-pursues-namibia-crude-amid-no-known-discovery-of-oil-energy.html
BP Plc (BP/) ’s push into Namibian oil
makes it the only major producer expanding in the West African
nation, where commercial crude deposits have never been found
and the sole gas field has sat idle since its discovery in 1974.  BP last month became the largest shareholder in a block
covering Namibia’s Nimrod offshore prospect, which may yield the
third-biggest discovery of 2012, according to Morgan Stanley. A
week earlier, the oil producer said it would buy into  Serica
Energy Plc (SQZ) ’s licenses in the country.  The company snapped up permits in neighboring  Angola  last
year on a bet that West Africa’s coastal shelf may mirror that
of  Brazil  across the Atlantic. Exploration off Namibia, where  14
wells  have been drilled out of about 15,000 across West Africa,
has so far focused on the Kudu gas field, still untapped since
its discovery as the partners clash over prices for the fuel.  BP’s entry into the region follows the withdrawal of
Chevron Corp. and Royal Dutch Shell Plc from Kudu, and allies
the company with explorers a fraction of its size.  “BP has become very aggressive out here,” said Paul Welch, chief executive officer of  Chariot Oil & Gas Ltd. (CHAR) , a
partner in the Nimrod prospect. “It’s become a hot area. If we
make a discovery, it’ll be like Ghana after Jubilee.”  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) ’s  Jubilee  discovery in Ghana in 2007
unlocked as many as 700 million barrels of reserves and opened a
new oil province. The project prompted Exxon Mobil Corp. and
Cnooc Ltd.,  China ’s largest offshore oil producer, to bid for
stakes in the field.  Ghana Find  “Majors have overlooked a number of the biggest basins in
the world,” BP CEO Bob Dudley said in October. In February, he
said BP’s focusing on exploration in Angola, the  Gulf of Mexico 
and South America to counter falling output at older fields and
expand reserves. The company declined to comment for this story.  Namibia , a former German colony twice the size of that
country, is the world’s fourth-largest uranium producer, and its
diamond mines operated by De Beers produce the highest-quality
gems. Ranking 129th globally in terms of gross domestic product
per capita, the nation’s $13 billion economy is equivalent to
only 60 percent of BP’s 2012 investment plans.  “Namibia is one option that could open up a new basin”
for BP, said Theepan Jothilingam, an analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc. in  London . “In reality, none of the super-majors are there
yet. There is this chase for new acreage.”  Arcadia, Falkland Oil  Smaller companies have snapped up this year’s two most
prospective discoveries, according to Morgan Stanley. London-
based  Falkland Oil & Gas Ltd. (FOGL)  is preparing to tap the Loligo
resource, southeast of the Falkland Islands, while closely held
Arcadia Petroleum Ltd. is drilling at Namibia’s Delta prospect.  Namibia has also attracted  Etablissements Maurel & Prom (MAU) , a
French explorer, which said March 15 it picked up two licenses
in the country’s Walvis basin.  At Nimrod, the chance of success is put at 24 percent by
Chariot, showing a willingness by BP to drill long-shot
prospects in untapped areas after many of the biggest finds in
recent years went to its competitors.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , which sold a 20 percent stake in
Nimrod last month to BP, discovered Brazil’s Tupi field in 2007,
the biggest find in the Americas in 30 years. Tullow’s Jubilee
was West Africa’s largest offshore discovery in a decade.  The waters running along the west coast of Africa may hold
75 billion barrels of resources, according to U.S. Geological
Survey research from 2010 and 2011, which didn’t cover Namibia.  Kudu Gas  Namibia, sandwiched between Angola,  South Africa  and
Botswana, has no proven oil reserves. Tullow and its partners at
the Kudu field, which holds more than 1 trillion cubic feet of
gas, plan to start pumping the fuel to generate power this year.  “The Kudu project continues to be our highest priority,”
Tullow Exploration Director Angus McCoss said March 14. “It’s a
big development license and there is exploration potential still
to be pursued in the future in Namibia.”  Chariot is the third-largest holder of exploration acreage
in the country after Brazil’s  HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA (HRTP3) 
and Canada’s  Eco Atlantic Oil & Gas Inc. (EOG) , according to the
nation’s Mines and Energy Ministry.  It’s a “promising new frontier of oil and gas,” said Gil Holzman, CEO of Eco Atlantic. New technology allows the company
to “unlock its deepwater potential and gain a better geological
understanding of the Atlantic off West Africa.”  Holzman and Chariot’s Welch describe Namibia as investor-
friendly, evidenced by the successful mining operations of
companies such as Rio Tinto Plc and De Beers.  Tapir, Nimrod  Chariot started drilling the Tapir South prospect today,
targeting 600 million barrels of resources. Nimrod, where it
expects to drill this year, is prospecting about 5 billion
barrels. The company also plans to explore blocks in northern
Namibian waters, just south of discoveries in Angola.  “This is a fairly effective way of entering a prospective
area,” said  Peter Hutton , an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in
London. “Namibia was conspicuously absent from BP’s last
exploration presentation. That’s probably because they didn’t
want to highlight it to anyone else.”  Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE)  said Feb. 10 it found a
1,180-foot (360-meter) column of oil off Angola, sending the
company’s shares up 33 percent that day and adding $3 billion to
its market value. Parts of Africa’s Atlantic coastline may
mirror the geology of Brazil, where billions of barrels of oil
were discovered in the past decade under a layer of salt. BP
bought Brazilian assets from Devon Energy Corp. for $3.2 billion
in 2010 to break into offshore exploration in the country.  Serica Surveys  In Namibia, BP is footing the bill for seismic exploration
at Serica’s blocks, paying an amount equal to Serica’s valuation
just a couple of months ago, said Serica Chairman Tony Craven Walker. Serica is valued at about 57 million pounds ($91
million), compared with 44 million pounds in early February. It
acquired the blocks in January after more than 18 months of
talks with the government.  “Some people say there’s nothing there, some say it looks
like Brazil,” Craven Walker said in an interview in London.
“If I were BP, I’d rather have this as an option than have to
come in late.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 