-- BP, Shell-Backed ETI Seeks Bids to Find Leaks at Carbon Stores
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-04-04T16:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/bp-shell-backed-eti-seeks-bids-to-find-leaks-at-carbon-stores.html
The Energy Technologies Institute,
backed by  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  BP Plc (BP/LN) , is seeking ways to
monitor leaks from carbon-dioxide stores after the U.K. started
a 1 billion-pound ($1.6 billion) fund for carbon capture.  The ETI, which also includes Caterpillar Inc., EDF Energy
Plc, EON AG, Rolls-Royce Group Plc and the U.K. government,
invited proposals to design a system that detects seepage of the
greenhouse gas after it’s buried underground, the Loughborough-
based company said. It will invest as much as 5 million pounds
in the project, according to a statement.  The U.K. is promoting technology that gathers power-station
emissions for permanent storage in rocks or depleted oil and gas
fields beneath the seabed because it allows for fossil fuel
generation without adding to pollution. The government started a
separate competition for CCS projects yesterday with a fund of 1
billion pounds to help commercialize the technology.  “There is an urgent need to demonstrate the technologies
required for  carbon capture  and storage and appraise potential
offshore storage sites in order to design the optimal CCS
system,”  David Clarke , chief executive officer at the ETI, said
in the e-mailed statement.  While leaks from the stores are unlikely, “delivering this
monitoring system will be a crucial step in building public and
commercial confidence in the acceptability of CCS
technology,” he said.  Intentions to bid must be made by June 15 with proposals in
by June 29, according to the statement. A system that can
monitor leakage “in the shallow subsurface and the marine
environment,” should be in place before the first storage site
is operational, expected in 2016, according to the ETI.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  