-- British Airways’ Europe-Empire Zeal Tested by AMR-JAL Crunch
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-04-05T08:52:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/british-airways-zeal-for-europe-empire-tested-by-amr-jal-crunch.html
Even before sealing a merger of
British Airways and Spain’s Iberia, Willie Walsh, the deal’s
architect, said he had 12 more targets in his sights. Eighteen
months later, he may have more opportunities than he can handle.  Faltering growth and surging fuel prices are pushing TAP of
Portugal and Scandinavia’s SAS AB toward a sale, with Ireland’s
 Aer Lingus (AERL)  Group Plc and eastern European operators including
Poland’s LOT and CSA of the Czech Republic also potentially
seeking investment. At the same time, Walsh may need to take
stakes in ailing  American Airlines  and  Japan  Airlines Co. in
order to keep the two carriers in the Oneworld alliance.  Walsh, 50, faces the dilemma just as International
Consolidated Airlines Group SA, the company formed from the BA-
Iberia combination, struggles with cost cuts at its Spanish
business and prepares to absorb BMI, a cast-off from  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  it’s buying for 173 million pounds ($275 million).  “In the near term the priorities would be BMI and TAP,”
said  Stephen Furlong , an analyst at Davy Stockbrokers in Dublin.
“They’ll do what they have to do to ensure their leadership in
the trans-Atlantic market is maintained, but if that could be
achieved without putting money in they’d probably be happier.”  Best Performer  IAG traded 0.7 percent lower at 178.40 pence as of 9:43
a.m. in  London , where it’s based. The stock has added 21 percent
this year, valuing  Europe ’s third-biggest airline at 3.3 billion
pounds and outperforming  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group, ranked No. 1 and
down 1.7 percent, and Lufthansa, the No. 2, up 10 percent.  Having won approval for a venture between BA, Iberia and
American Airlines in 2010, IAG should have been contemplating
its opportunities for European expansion from a position of
strength in the trans-Atlantic market, the largest in the world
for lucrative premium-class business traffic.  Instead American’s parent,  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , is mired in
bankruptcy proceedings, having filed for creditor protection in
November. US Airways Group Inc., a member of the Lufthansa-led
Star group of carriers, and  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , aligned to Air
France-KLM within the SkyTeam affiliation, are mulling bids,
people with knowledge of their intentions have said.  ‘High Priority’  IAG, then as  British Airways (IAG) , pursued the right to
coordinate prices and schedules with Fort Worth, Texas-based AMR
for 13 years. The airline devotes 31 percent of capacity to
North American routes and said Feb. 29 that the venture’s
revenue grew to more than $8 billion in 2012.  While Walsh said Feb. 29 that IAG is “not looking to invest
in American” and saw no “cause for concern,” with AMR’s revamp
plans “very credible,” it can’t stand by if a bid comes in,
said  John Strickland , an analyst at JLS Consulting in London.  “It will be a high priority to keep American Airlines,”
Strickland said. “The joint venture was a long time coming and
should yield many future advantages.”  At the same time, IAG will “look closely” at investing in
Japan Airlines as the Asian carrier plan an initial public
offering as early as September after exiting bankruptcy last
year, Walsh said March 12 in  Tokyo , adding that an investment
“represents a great opportunity for us in the future.”  IAG and AMR together fought off a bid from Atlanta-based
Delta to pry JAL away from Oneworld after it first filed for
bankruptcy in January 2010, and an application has been lodged
for a joint venture on routes between Japan and Europe.  European Openings  Walsh has to juggle the needs of Oneworld against an
increasing number of acquisition opportunities in Europe, where
a second wave of consolidation is taking place.  IAG is in pole position to make acquisitions in Europe as
returning Air France-KLM CEO Jean-Cyril Spinetta focuses on
steering 2 billion euros ($2.6 billion) in cost cuts past French
unions and Lufthansa’s Christoph Franz retreats from a string of
takeovers that added ailing Austrian Airlines and BMI.  Lisbon-based  TAP SGPS SA (TAP)  is likely to be the first asset
available to Walsh, with Portugal targeting a sale before the
end of the year, Secretary of State for Treasury and Finance
Maria Luis Albuquerque told journalists in Lisbon on Feb. 28.  “We would certainly be interested in looking,” Walsh said
on March 20 at a Oneworld event in Berlin. “The network it has
into  Brazil  is interesting, certainly. It’s got some interesting
network into  Africa  as well, so we will wait and see.”  Portuguese Appeal  TAP’s Brazilian routes might make it a must-buy should
IAG’s Oneworld partner  Lan Airlines SA (LAN)  of Chile choose to exit
the alliance following its impending merger with Sao Paulo-based
 Tam SA (TAMM4) , a member of the Star group, leaving IAG without an ally
in the BRIC country,  Latin America ’s largest economy.  “Brazil isn’t quite a power house, but it’s an upcoming
economy, so you could see how that would be quite an interesting
proposition,” said  Gert Zonneveld , an analyst at Panmure Gordon
in London. “Iberia is strong in the Spanish-speaking part of
Latin America, but not the Portuguese part.”  Among other European carriers, Aer Lingus -- where Irishman
Walsh was once CEO -- helps provide vital feed at BA’s Heathrow
hub via a code-share deal on its flights from Dublin, Cork and
Belfast, where the U.K. airline has no routes of its own. The
company has received expressions of interest from a “number of
parties,” Ireland’s Transport Ministry said March 12.  Poland, Czech Republic  Turkish Airlines, building a hub in Istanbul, said Jan. 23
it was one of two bidders for a stake in Polskie Linie Lotnicze
LOT SA, and talks may be completed within a month, CNBC-e
television reported March 15, citing Chairman Hamdi Topcu.  The second bidder is publicly traded, according to Poland’s
government, which had offers from four parties last year, BA and
Air France among them, newspaper Rzeczpospolita said Oct. 16.  Czech national carrier Ceske Aerolinie AS is in talks with
two potential investors, finance ministry spokesman Ondrej Jakob
said Jan. 27, while the Swedish and Norwegian governments have
parliamentary mandates to sell their stakes in Star member  SAS. (SAS)   London-based Morgan Stanley analyst Penny Butcher said
today in a note that IAG will probably find itself “pressed”
this year to devote capital to the “strengthening of alliance
ties,” and that concern about this and losses at Iberia balance
out optimism regarding the strength of trans-Atlantic demand.
She resumed coverage of the stock with an “equal-weight” rating.  Still, ownership restrictions mean IAG couldn’t win full
control of a carrier in either Japan or the U.S., with foreign
holdings limited to 33.3 percent and 25 percent respectively,
making investments generally less attractive than in Europe,
where Walsh could take charge of any business acquired.  Spanish Losses  “Minority investments in airlines have rarely made for a
successful strategy,” said Gerald Khoo, an analyst Espirito
Santo Investment Bank in London. “It would be defensive,
spending to keep something that they already have.”  Walsh has attempted an intercontinental deal before,
striking an agreement to merge with Oneworld member  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN)  of Australia before new CEO Alan Joyce walked away.  Rather than pursue more mergers, IAG may be wiser to focus
on integrating BMI, which will deliver 42 pairs of takeoff and
landing slots at Heathrow, taking IAG’s holding to 51 percent,
and stemming losses at Madrid-based Iberia, Furlong reckons.  The Spanish business, based in a contracting economy, had
an operating loss of 61 million euros last year, compared with a
592 million-euro operating profit at BA, with its lucrative
routes between the financial centers of London and  New York .  A new low-cost unit, Iberia Express, was introduced on
March 25 in effort to stem losses on domestic and short-haul
flights, provoking the ire of the pilots concerned about their
job prospects and prompting a series of walkouts.  “Iberia is losing money and they have to sort that out,
and BMI also has to be turned around,” Furlong said. “Mergers
are the way the world is going, but to be a world leader you
have to achieve the synergies that are driving them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in London at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  