-- Londoners Pitch Tents for Olympic Fans as Hotels Fill Up
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 2012-04-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/britons-pitch-tents-for-olympic-fans-as-london-s-hotels-fill-up.html
Natasha Corne is offering Olympic
fans who attend this summer’s  London  Games a piece of her
backyard for around $24 a night, including a full English
breakfast.  Corne, a 36-year-old health-care worker, has already bought
a blue tent to house her guests and she plans to set up a
barbecue on the 1,750 square-foot (163 square-meter) plot of
land in Eltham, southeast London.  “I’ve jumped on the Olympic bandwagon,” said Corne, whose
two-bedroom home is 3 miles (4.8 kilometers) from the
equestrian-event sites in Greenwich. “I haven’t got a massive
garden, but there’s enough space to sleep eight.”  The Olympic ritual of renting out space to visitors is
under way in London after government cuts triggered the biggest
drop in disposable incomes in more than two decades. Homeowners
are trying to take advantage of a hotel shortage that’s allowed
some operators to charge as much as double the usual rate during
the Games.  About 320,000 visitors will converge on the U.K. capital in
July, many of them competing with invitees of Britain and the
 International Olympic Committee  for more than 140,000 hotel
rooms, according to estimates by the U.K. government’s
 VisitBritain  office.  “There are simply not enough rooms available across all
price classes,” said Konstanze Auernheimer, London-based
director of marketing and analysis at hospitality research
company STR Global. “That’s why many Londoners see this as an
opportunity to offer accommodation with a local flavor for less
money.”  Alternative Options  Corne is one of several hundred people advertising
alternative accommodation during the Games on
 Campinmygarden.com . Londoners are offering houses and apartments
to rent on websites such as  Londonrentmyhouse.com , Gumtree.com
and Craigslist’s London site.  A six-bedroom property in Hammersmith, about a mile from
the Earls Court sports hall where the Olympic volleyball
competition will take place, is listed for 2,500 pounds ($4,000)
a week. A  10-bedroom  Hackney Wick home, north of the Olympic
Park, will cost 7,500 pounds a week.  A typical London hotel room during the  Olympic Games  will
cost 210 pounds a night, according to Hotels.com, a website
advertising more than 145,000 hotels around the world. That
compares with an average rate of about 103 pounds at the same
time last year.  Tax-Free Income  By renting a furnished room, homeowners can make about
4,000 pounds without paying tax, according to Claire Evans, a
director at accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. It costs
20 pounds to place an advertisement on Londonrentmyhouse, while
Campinmygarden is free.  The swell of visitors is prompting some residential
property brokers in London’s East End, where the 246 hectares
(608 acres) of wasteland and disused railroads made way for the
Olympic Park, to contact tenants before their leases are up and
ask whether the space will be free during the Games.  Alan Harvey Property Services mailed renters of the
properties it manages four months before the opening ceremony.
It’s offering two-bedroom apartments near Newham, London’s
poorest neighborhood, for 2,500 pounds a week during the Games.  Those prices are as much as five times higher than typical
rates, according to Jane Ingram, head of the rental unit at
brokerage  Savills Plc. (SVS)  The landlords are risking a void in
rental income during and after the Games by seeking temporary
tenants, she said.  Inflated Prices  “We don’t know if they’re ever going to get that, as it’s
so inflated,” Ingram said by phone. “There’s a lot that people
need to think about that they haven’t necessarily considered
because they’ve got excited about the pound signs.”  The returns for those turning their gardens into campsites
won’t be huge, according to Susan Goode, who’s renting her
garden about 10 miles east of the Olympic Park in Romford, Essex
for 8 pounds a person per night. She hopes to earn a few hundred
pounds to pay for repairs to her garage roof.  “It’s a bit of fun,” Goode said in a telephone interview.
“If people want to stay, I can earn a little bit of money. I’m
not going to make mega-bucks.”  The competition from private individuals doesn’t appear to
have hurt hotel companies. The Lanesborough, a luxury hotel near
 Buckingham Palace  operated by  Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide Inc. (HOT) , is fully booked for the Games, according to the
 Stamford , Connecticut-based company. That includes a suite for
14,000 pounds a night, the most expensive in London.  Hotel Openings  Intercontinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) , the world’s largest
hotelier and the official hotel provider for the Games, has
about 86 percent of its rooms in London booked. More than 90
percent of Starwood’s city center hotel rooms have been sold,
said Michael Wale, senior vice president for northwest Europe.  “The period immediately after the Olympic Games is
business as usual and we have plenty of availability,” Wale
said by e-mail.  Travelodge Ltd., London’s biggest hotelier, opened its
500th U.K. property in Stratford, home of the Olympic Stadium,
on March 4 and plans to open another six in the city before the
event begins.  Room rates are unlikely to rise further as hotels lower or
remove the minimum number of nights required for a booking,
according to Seamus MacCormaic, director of market management
for hotels.com.  ‘Testing the Water’  “Demand isn’t as strong as hotels may have expected,” he
said by phone. “They’re testing the water but still holding on
to rates.”  The Olympics run from July 27 to Aug. 12 and the
Paralympics last 12 days starting Aug. 29. About 8.8 million
tickets to events will be sold and will attract more visitors
than other Summer Games in  Europe , according to a study by
Oxford Economics. About 250,000 people traveled to  Barcelona  for
the 1992 Games, while Athens had around 150,000 tourists in
2004, the researcher said.  When London beat Paris and  New York  to win the Games in
2005, its Olympic officials pledged to reserve about 50,000
rooms. The London Organising Committee returned about 20 percent
of its allocation, leaving about 110,000 rooms available for the
public.  The opening ceremony on July 27 has attracted the greatest
demand for hotel rooms, followed by the first track and field
events on Aug. 3, according to MacCormaic of hotels.com.  The first of Natasha Corne’s guests, a family of four, are
due to arrive on the busiest day, when Oscar-winning director
 Danny Boyle  unveils his William Shakespeare-inspired “Isles of
Wonder” Olympic curtain-raiser. Corne already has her mind on
the day after.  “I’m not looking forward to cooking eight breakfasts in
the morning,” she said. “But I’ll do it with a smile.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 