-- Buddy Media Embraces Google as CEO Shifts Focus Beyond Facebook
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-04-04T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/buddy-media-offers-youtube-tools-as-focus-moves-beyond-facebook.html
Buddy Media Inc. , which makes
social-networking management tools for businesses, is forging
closer ties to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  as  Facebook Inc. (FB)  represents a smaller
slice of its business.  Buddy Media introduced a partnership with  Google’s YouTube 
yesterday that lets businesses customize their video pages. That
builds on a set of services that already work with Google+, the
social network owned by Google.  Helping clients work with Google+ is essential because the
service ranks so high in Google’s Web searches, Buddy Media
Chief Executive Officer Michael Lazerow said in an interview.
Facebook, once the company’s sole focus, now makes up 30 percent
to 40 percent of Buddy Media’s work as customers ask for tools
for other social-media sites.  “We went from a very Facebook-focused business to a Web-
wide focus,” Lazerow said yesterday at the company’s new
headquarters in  New York . “It’s not just about Facebook, it’s
about all of these channels a company has to manage.”  In order to complete the YouTube deal,  Buddy Media  had to
persuade Google to open its programming interface to
modifications, Lazerow said. Now clients can offer a branded
video player, link images and offer quizzes to their users,
letting them vote for content they like the most.  The YouTube tools also can target ads based on geography --
a necessary feature for companies that operate globally in
different languages, he said.  “The YouTube change was a huge shift in their thinking
about monetization,” Lazerow said, declining to comment on
financial terms of the deal.  Buddy Media has about 900 clients, Lazerow said. These
include Ford Motor Co., Johnson & Johnson and Sony Corp.,
according to the company’s website.  The market for social-media tools will more than double to
$970 million in 2016, from $389 million this year, according to
 Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  On Facebook, advertisements generated
$3.15 billion in revenue last year, 85 percent of  total sales ,
and many of the ads direct users to brand pages managed by
companies such as Buddy Media.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  