-- Burger King to Be a Public Company Again After ’10 Buyout
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-04-04T13:49:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/burger-king-to-be-a-public-company-again-18-months-after-buyout.html
Burger King Worldwide Holdings Inc. (BKC) ,
the fast-food chain taken private in 2010 by New York investment
firm 3G Capital Inc., will go public again after merging with a
company owned by  William Ackman .  3G will get $1.4 billion in cash to transfer Burger King to
 Justice Holdings Ltd. (JUSH) , a special-purpose acquisition company co-
founded by Ackman, according to a statement yesterday. Justice
and its founders will hold 29 percent of the fast-food chain,
giving Burger King an equity value of about $4.8 billion.  3G, backed by Brazilian billionaires such as  Jorge Paulo Lemann , paid $3.3 billion for Burger King just 18 months ago.
Since that takeover, the biggest restaurant deal in at least a
decade, Burger King sales have stagnated, prompting the chain to
experiment with new items and delivery service.  “It seems a little quick,” said Peter Saleh, an analyst
at Telsey Advisory Group in New York. 3G hasn’t “changed all
that much in a year and a half,” and a lot of the restaurants
are in need of remodeling, he said.  Burger King, which announced a new menu on April 2, has
struggled to keep pace with  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  The company has
also tried to remodel stores to a so-called 20/20 prototype,
which includes corrugated metal, brick, wood and concrete. There
are more than 12,500 Burger King restaurants worldwide, of which
about 90 percent are franchised.  Fourth-quarter revenue fell 0.7 percent to $580.6 million
from a year earlier, Burger King said last month in a statement.
Global comparable-store sales rose 1.2 percent in the same
period, led by growth in  Latin America , the Caribbean,  Europe ,
the  Middle East  and Africa.  New Menu  The Whopper burger seller’s new food includes salads,
smoothies and chicken snack wraps -- all of which Oak Brook,
Illinois-based McDonald’s already has on its menu. Burger King
also retired its King mascot last year to appeal to a broader
group of consumers, including women and kids.  “I don’t know if they necessarily had a clear strategy in
terms of the customer they were targeting,” Saleh said.
“Switching your strategy takes some time.”  After the deal closes, Justice will immediately stop
trading on the  London  Stock Exchange and Burger King Worldwide
Inc. will start trading on the  New York  Stock Exchange.  3G will remain the largest shareholder in Burger King, with
a 71 percent stake. The firm’s Brazilian investors include
Lemann, who owned a stake in the Brazilian-Belgian beer company
InBev, which later bought Anheuser-Busch.  Justice Holdings, started by  Nicolas Berggruen , Martin Franklin and Ackman, raised 900 million pounds ($1.4 billion) in
a February 2011 initial public offering in London. Berggruen is
the owner of Karstadt,  Germany ’s biggest department-store chain,
and also co-leads the New York-based Liberty Acquisition
Holdings Corp. with Franklin. Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital
Management LP oversees about $9 billion.  Berggruen targets companies loaded with debt or those with
family owners looking to retire. He restructures those
businesses’ debt and invests in expansion, typically owning them
for a decade or more.  (Justice will hold a conference call at 10 a.m. New York
time to discuss the transaction. to access, go to
www.justiceholdingsltd.com.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  