-- Cambridge Is Underdog in Boat Race With Only One British Rower
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-04-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/cambridge-is-underdog-in-boat-race-with-only-one-british-rower.html
David Nelson , the Australian who’s
president of Cambridge University Boat Club, says the lack of
British oarsmen in his squad for the annual  Boat Race  against
Oxford University isn’t a disadvantage.  It’s the first time for Cambridge -- and only the second
time in Boat Race history -- that a crew will have only one
British rower. Undergraduate Mike Thorp is the lone Brit,
although coxswain Ed Bosson grew up in Buckinghamshire,  England .  Nelson, a former employee of RBS Morgans Ltd., will be
sitting in the  Cambridge  bow during this weekend’s race on the
 River Thames . The international makeup of his crew -- which
includes three Americans, two Australians, a German and a New
Zealander along with Thorp -- is an asset, the 28-year-old said.  “Having different nationalities in the crew is an
advantage,” said Nelson, who is studying economics at Hughes
Hall. “We have a lot of experience and we can draw on that. The
Boat Race is demanding and it’s good to have that strength and
experience to draw on. Whatever is thrown at us, we can deal
with it.”  The  Oxford  crew consists of four Britons, two Americans,
and individuals from  Germany  and the Netherlands. Cox Zoe de
Toledo is also British.  The 158th edition of the Boat Race, sponsored by Xchanging 
Plc, will be held April 7. The contest started in 1829 after a 
Cambridge student wrote to a friend at Oxford proposing a race.
 The event takes place over a 4.25-mile (6.8-kilometer) course 
on the Thames in west  London  and lasts about 20 minutes.  ‘Not an Issue’  The only other time a team had just one British rower was
in 2007 when Robin Ejsmond-Frey was in the Oxford boat.
Cambridge won that race.  “It’s not an issue for us,” said Moritz Schramm, a 25-
year-old German at Cambridge who’s lived in the U.K. for almost
10 years. “Lots of us think of ourselves as almost British,
although Mike does like to point out that he’s the only Brit in
the crew.”  Oxford won by four boat lengths last year after leading
from the start. Cambridge holds a 80-76 advantage, with one tie.  Cambridge is the heavier crew this year, with its oarsmen
averaging 96.3 kilos (212 pounds) each, compared to 88.4 kilos
for Oxford. The 7.9-kilo weight difference is the second-biggest
ever, with only the victorious Oxford boat of 1990 having a
larger margin. The heavier crew has won 7 of the last 10 races.  Oxford is the favorite with U.K. bookmaker Coral Racing
Ltd., which is offering 2-5 odds on the Blues. That means a
successful $5 bet would return the original stake plus $2.
Cambridge is 7-4 and a dead-heat is 100-1.  Experienced Teams  Both teams feature oarsmen with experience at world
championship levels, either from junior or under-23
competitions.  Kevin Baum, a 27-year-old who rowed at  Stanford University 
in  California , is in the three seat in the Oxford eight. He said
the publicity around the race is something he never experienced
rowing in America.  “It’s completely different from anything that I’ve ever
done in the U.S., where no one comes to watch races unless it’s
coaches and family,” Baum said. “To be at a university where
rowing is the big sport has been a completely shocking, foreign
experience.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  