-- Can We Trust Myanmar? Ask the Kachin as They Die
-- B y   R o w a n   J a c o b s e n
-- 2012-04-04T23:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/can-we-trust-myanmar-ask-the-kachin-as-they-die.html
Myanmar’s parliamentary election, in
which  Aung San Suu Kyi  and other members of her National League
for Democracy party won seats, has led to a renewed push among
Western nations to relax sanctions against the regime.  That would be a serious mistake. The election, involving a
relative handful of seats in a powerless Parliament, was little
more than a bone thrown by the Burmese government to the
opposition and the international community. It was also a
distraction, allowing the regime to continue business as usual
across the country.  Lately, that business has included an assault on members of
the Kachin ethnic minority living in Myanmar’s northernmost
state. On June 9, 2011, the Burmese army began an offensive
against the Kachin Independence Organization, which has
controlled much of Kachin State for the past 50 years. Badly
outnumbered, KIO troops have been forced to retreat to their
core area, leaving many Kachin towns exposed.  As an 83-page report issued by  Human Rights Watch  last
month documented, the army has systematically killed and
tortured civilians, raped women and burned houses to the ground.
Physicians for Human Rights found that “between June and
September 2011, the Burmese army looted food from civilians,
fired indiscriminately into villages, threatened villages with
attacks, and used civilians as porters and human minesweepers.”
Some 75,000 people have been driven from their homes and are now
living in refugee camps, primarily in KIO-controlled territory.  Burning Houses  I’ve spent the past three weeks inside Kachin State, and
have heard similar reports first-hand. I’ve met middle-aged
farmers who volunteered for the Kachin military forces after
ethnic Burmese troops opened fire on their houses and their
livestock, driving their families to the refugee camps. The
fighting is intensifying. Each day was marked by the sounds of
shelling, smoke from burning houses, wounded Kachin soldiers
brought in for treatment and a steady flow of refugees into the
camps.  Yet in all the discussion of Myanmar’s supposed shift
toward political freedom, which earned the regime a visit from
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , there has been almost
no attention paid to the violence in Kachin.  Part of the reason, I believe, is terminology. Most media
sources follow the Burmese government’s lead in referring to the
KIO as an “insurgency” or an “armed group.” An  Op-Ed article 
last month in the New York Times by Louise Arbour, of the
 International Crisis Group , was typical. “The government has
abandoned policies of confrontation with the country’s ethnic
minorities for a new peace initiative that has seen 11 cease-
fire agreements signed with armed groups, leaving out only the
resistant Kachin,” Arbour wrote. She argued that: “Using
sanctions to force a solution to the outstanding ethnic conflict
involving the Kachin armed group is a clumsy tactic that puts
pressure only on the government and encourages the other side to
fight on for a better deal.”  First: The main thing the Kachin are resisting is the
army’s attempt to seize their lands and kill their families. Who
wouldn’t resist that? (And the “better deal” that the Kachin are
fighting for is that the Burmese army withdraw to the line
agreed on in a 1994 ceasefire agreement.)  Second: Arbour’s description of the KIO calls to mind
images of masked bandits hiding in the jungle with submachine
guns, making threats. Nothing could be further from the truth.
For 50 years, the KIO has protected parts of Kachin State from
the Burmese military, which seized power in a 1962 coup. The
regime craves Kachin State’s wealth of minerals, hardwood
forests and potential hydropower sites, as well as its access to
 China . Although the KIO began as an insurgency, years of
stability, a flourishing border trade with China and some
forward-thinking leaders have allowed the KIO-controlled areas
to blossom into a full-fledged micro-state.  Hydropower and Radio  During my time among the Kachin “insurgents,” I watched
their doctors remove the inflamed appendix from a young Kachin
woman in the KIO hospital. I watched their engineers build a
radio station, which will be the first to broadcast in the
Kachin language. I saw KIO license plates and ID cards issued by
the immigration department. I drank clean water from a KIO
reverse-osmosis plant. I ran my laptop on clean electricity
delivered by a KIO hydropower dam. I sat in cafes savoring
traditional cuisine and listening to Li Li, the most famous
Kachin singer, play his black guitar and sing about his people’s
heritage and uncertain future.  When a fire broke out on a hillside one day, I watched the
KIO fire department put it out using their antique red fire
truck. I attended Sunday mass -- 90 percent of the population is
Christian -- where the women wore bright Kachin skirts and
traditional face paint and plastic flip-flops. I watched the KIO
schools hold classes in the Kachin language, which is forbidden
by the Burmese regime. In short, I experienced a vibrant and
unique culture with its own traditions, but one that is close to
the breaking point.  I also stayed in the refugee camps, where I was staggered
by the numbers and the horror stories. One woman told me how the
Burmese army bound the women of her village in their church,
using strings of electrical wires used to light their Virgin
Mary, while they led the men of the village away. Many did not
return. I listened to an elderly woman tell of hiding in the
jungle for days after the army burned her village, and then
clinging to the back of a motorcycle for eight hours to make the
journey to a refugee camp. There are thousands of such stories
in every camp. (To be fair, both sides have violated
international human-rights standards with their use of  land
mines  and child soldiers, though in my observations the Kachin
used mines very sparingly as a last-ditch defense, and assigned
soldiers under 18 to positions in their military headquarters
and training camps, far from the front lines.)  Planning Ahead  The only reason the humanitarian crisis hasn’t been far
worse is because the KIO had been anticipating this government
offensive for years and had already chosen sites for camps and
established an executive committee to organize them. This is
taking a tremendous financial toll -- no doubt part of the
government’s strategy -- and international relief agencies have
mostly been barred by the Burmese government from aiding the
camps. Soon the summer rainy season will arrive, with its many
diseases.  “How do people in America feel about our situation?” is the
repeated question I get from refugees. All I could do was look
them in the face and tell them that most people in America don’t
know they exist.  That ignorance, I’m convinced, is the only thing that has
allowed the regime to continue its brutality. The world needs to
understand that the Kachin are not a group of rebel insurgents
but a self-sufficient society that has governed itself for
centuries.  Instead of linking Myanmar’s diplomatic and financial
status to a minor election, the U.S. and its allies should
insist that the Myanmar regime immediately withdraw its troops
from Kachin territory and allow nongovernmental aid groups full
access to the refugee camps. Insurgencies come and insurgencies
go. But ethnic cleansing is forever.  (Rowan Jacobsen is a 2012 Alicia Patterson foundation
fellow writing about conflict in the borderlands between  India ,
Myanmar and China.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  the real Mitt Romney ,
austerity  in Spain  and the Muslim Brotherhood’s  political rise ;
 Ezra Klein  on worrying about  the deficit ;  Caroline Baum  on
 scapegoating oil companies ;  Jonathan Weil  on  Groupon’s IPO ;
 Susan Antilla  on the  JOBS act .  To contact the writer of this article:
Rowan Jacobsen at  rowan@rowanjacobsen.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 