-- Canada Boosts Housing Oversight as Banks Warn on Economy
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-04-04T14:14:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/canada-boosts-housing-oversight-as-banks-warn-on-economy.html
Canadian authorities are stepping up
oversight of the nation’s  housing market  even as lenders such as
Bank of  Nova Scotia  warn that tougher rules could threaten the
economic recovery.  The country’s banking regulator, known as  OSFI , said
yesterday it will  boost  supervision of private mortgage insurers
while examining “emerging” risks to the financial system in
several areas, including residential mortgages.  Policy makers, including Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ,
have said that parts of Canada’s housing market have become
overvalued as consumers add to record debt levels, encouraged by
some of the lowest  mortgage rates  in decades. Flaherty said in
his  budget  last week the government will enhance supervision of
Canada Mortgage & Housing Corp., a federal agency that insures
some mortgages.  Scotiabank (BNS)  chief executive officer  Richard Waugh  warned
about making reforms to CMHC that could have “unintended
consequences” and cause the market to slow too much. “Canada’s
model, which has been so successful, is let the banks manage and
let the policy makers set macroeconomic policy, monetary policy,
and good strong regulatory supervision,” Waugh said yesterday
in an interview in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  said in an April 2
speech that households relying on debt financing represents
“the biggest domestic risk” to the economy. Some Canadians
would be vulnerable to a sharp decline in housing prices, the
central bank said in its latest  Financial System Review .  Home Prices Rising  Home resale prices rose 6.5 percent in January from a year
earlier, according to the Teranet-National Bank Composite House
Price  Index (TNBHICY%) . The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20
U.S. cities fell 3.8 percent in January from a year earlier
after dropping 4.1 percent in December, a March 27 report from
the group showed.  The country’s resale housing market is overvalued by 10
percent to 15 percent and there is an oversupply of new homes,
Toronto-Dominion Bank economist Sonya Gulati said in a March 22
 report . “These excesses should be gradually unwound over 2013
and 2014, with higher  interest rates  the impetus for the
adjustment,” she said.  The Ottawa-based Office of the Superintendent of Financial
Institutions said yesterday it will produce a report for
Flaherty on government guarantees on mortgage insurance. An OSFI
spokeswoman, Leonie Roux, said the report would apply to private
insurance providers such as  Genworth MI Canada Inc. (MIC)  and not
CMHC.  Government Guarantees  The federal government guarantees the full value of
mortgage insurance offered by CMHC, which had C$541 billion
($546 billion) in insurance in force at the end of September.
The government guarantees 90 percent of insurance offered by
private-sector companies.  “Elevated household debt levels not only make households
vulnerable to adverse shocks but continued low interest rates
could encourage even higher household indebtedness,” OSFI said
in a planning document released on its website yesterday.  Consumers “could become a source of negative domestic
influence if they take action to rein in spending to address
their indebtedness,” OSFI added.  Consumer spending  has led economic growth since taking the
country out of recession in 2009. The Bank of Canada projects
households will be responsible for more than half of the
country’s 2 percent economic growth this year.  The government said in the budget it will enhance the
governance and oversight of CMHC to “ensure its commercial
activities are managed in a manner that promotes the stability
of the financial system.”  Strengthening Oversight  The government is considering whether OSFI can play a role
in “strengthening the oversight of CMHC’s commercial
operations,”  Chisholm Pothier , Flaherty’s chief spokesman, said
yesterday in an e-mail. OSFI doesn’t currently regulate CMHC,
instead, it reports to the country’s parliament through Human
Resources and Skills Development Minister Diane Finley.  “Someone is going to have to safeguard CMHC, and I would
assume that falls under OSFI,” said Ian Pollick, senior fixed-
income strategist at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto. “There is
no other real national regulator.”  The budget also said the government will introduce
legislation on covered bonds under a system to be administered
by CMHC.  Covered Bonds  Most covered bonds issued in Canada are secured by
mortgages insured by CMHC. A government consultation  paper  in
May asked for input on whether the law should encourage banks to
secure covered bonds with uninsured mortgages, a move that may
lead banks to rely less on CMHC insurance. The budget didn’t
specify how the government will proceed on that issue.  The government also didn’t say whether it will raise CMHC’s
C$600-billion limit for insuring mortgages. CMHC said Jan. 31 it
has been rationing bulk insurance offered to lenders as the
corporation approaches its legal limit.  Flaherty has tightened rules on  mortgage insurance   three
times  since October 2008. He appears to be taking a “wait-and-
see” approach to determine if the market is headed for a soft
landing before he acts again, said  Finn Poschmann , vice
president of research at Toronto-based think tank C.D. Howe
Institute. “If the growth in mortgage credit and home-equity
lines of credit doesn’t tame itself, we can expect the finance
minister to respond,” he said.  ‘Greater Security’  Ron Olson, president of the Canadian Home Builders’
Association, said he was pleased that Flaherty opted to leave
mortgage insurance rules unchanged in the budget. The plan to
enhance supervision of CMHC “brings greater security to housing
markets,” Olson said by telephone last week.  The government should “hit the pause button” to take
stock of the new rules put in place since the financial crisis,
and whether such changes may have “unintended consequences,”
 Terry Campbell , president of the Canadian Bankers’ Association,
said yesterday in a speech in Ottawa.  Canada ’s banks have been ranked the soundest in the globe
by the  World Economic Forum  in part because they avoided the
subprime loans that crippled many U.S. lenders during the
financial crisis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa  at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  