-- CBRE Global Sees Buying Chance in China as Curbs Cool Market
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-04-04T22:18:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/cbre-global-sees-buying-chance-in-china-as-curbs-cool-market.html
CBRE Global Investors , manager of
$94.8 billion of real-estate assets, said the next one to two
years will be a good time to invest in  China ’s property market
as it slows on the government’s tightening policies.  The fund is “on track” to make its first residential
investment in China in five years by acquiring shares in a
joint-venture project in the second quarter, Greater China
Country Manager Richard van den Berg said in a phone interview.
It is also seeking to develop retail space in mixed-use
development projects with a strong residential base because they
are “especially attractive,” while prices of completed retail
and office projects are “quite steep,” he added.  “We like to buy in the bottom quarter of the market,
preferably before the up-tick really gets going,” van den Berg
said from  Hong Kong . “We think we are in the bottom quarter
part of the market now.”  China’s  home prices  fell for the seventh month in March by
0.3 percent from February, according to  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) ,
the nation’s biggest real-estate website owner. Premier  Wen Jiabao  said in an economic meeting on April 2 that the
government will “resolutely” maintain its curbs on the
country’s property market.  CBRE doesn’t expect the government to alter its property
policies before changing its leadership later this year, van den
Berg said. Even after that, it might take a couple of months
before some gradual easing takes place, he said.  China’s two-year campaign to rein in home prices has
included measures such as higher down-payment requirements and
mortgage rates, and home purchase restrictions in 40 cities.  Good Opportunities  CBRE is “actively” looking for deals in China’s smaller
second- and third-tier cities, especially the satellite towns of
 Shanghai  and Guangzhou. Such cities, including Nantong in the
eastern Jiangsu province, are “very good investment
opportunities,” because they often have “quite high” per
capita income and good infrastructure linked in with high-speed
rail to first-tier cities, van den Berg said.  Los Angeles-based CBRE Global Investors  acquired  a majority
of ING Groep NV’s real estate investment business last year. The
combined company has invested about $1.5 billion in 15 Chinese
residential projects since 1996, most recently in Shanghai and
the southwestern city of Chengdu toward the end of 2007,
according to van den Berg in an interview in November.  CBRE Global Investors usually jointly bids for land with a
developer in China and then holds as much as 50 percent stakes
of the development ventures, van den Berg said in November. Its
partners have included  Longfor Properties Co. (960) , controlled by the
nation’s richest woman Wu Yajun, and  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the
country’s largest developer by market value.  Beijing, Shanghai  The fund’s focus remained on residential projects in China.
It also likes mix-used properties, with about 60 percent made up
of residential properties. Office buildings in first-tier cities
usually have high prices and low yields, so wouldn’t be good
investment, van den Berg said.  Beijing and Shanghai had the fastest office rental growth
last year in the Asia-Pacific region, according to Cushman &
Wakefield Inc. Beijing’s prime office rents climbed 75 percent
last year to become  Asia ’s third-costliest office market after
Hong Kong and  Tokyo , while those in Shanghai jumped 24 percent.  “In general, China’s property market is still strong and
robust,” said van den Berg. “The risk in investment in China
is more at the upside.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Malcolm Scott at 
 mscott23@bloomberg.net ;
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  