-- Chelsea Sets Up Champions League Semi With Barca, Real Advances
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-04-04T22:56:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/chelsea-real-madrid-complete-champions-league-semifinal-field.html
Chelsea beat Benfica to set up a
Champions League semifinal against tournament favorite Barcelona,
while Real  Madrid  also won at home to advance to a final four
meeting with  Bayern Munich .  Raul Meireles  scored in injury time as Chelsea beat 10-man
Benfica 2-1 last night in London to complete a 3-1 victory in
their two-match quarterfinal. The win sends the Blues to the
semifinals of European soccer’s elite club competition for the
sixth time in nine seasons, where they’ll face a Barcelona squad
seeking its fourth title in seven years.  “They’re the greatest team in the world,”  Frank Lampard ,
who scored Chelsea’s first goal, told ITV. “Barcelona are going
to be favorites because of the way they’ve been playing, but we
believe in ourselves.”  Cristiano Ronaldo scored twice as Real Madrid completed an
8-2 rout of APOEL Nicosia with a 5-2 victory at the Bernabeu
Stadium. The record nine-time champion next meets a Bayern team
trying to reach the May 19 final in its home stadium.  “Mission accomplished,” Ronaldo said on UEFA’s website.
“We’re in the semifinals, where we expect the Bayern tie to be
very difficult.”  Real, which last won the competition in 2002, will travel
to Munich for the first match on April 17, with the second game
in Spain eight days later. Chelsea will open its semifinal at
home on April 18 before heading to the Camp Nou on April 24.  Lampard Strikes  After Chelsea’s  Juan Mata  had an early goal disallowed for
offside, the Blues took the lead in the 21st minute last night
when Lampard converted a penalty kick after  Ashley Cole  was
taken down.  Chelsea captain  John Terry  cleared  Oscar Cardozo ’s shot off
the line before Benfica went down to 10 men in the 40th minute
when defender Maxi Pereira received his second yellow card for a
sliding challenge on Jon Obi Mikel.  Cardozo had a shot tipped over the goal early in the second
half and Chelsea midfielder Ramires missed a Salomon Kalou pass
in front of an open goal. Fernando Torres shot wide and Mata
forced a lunging save from Benfica goalkeeper Artur.  Javi Garcia headed in a corner kick in the 85th minute and
Nelson Oliveira had a chance moments later to put Benfica ahead
in the series on away goals, though shot just wide.  Meireles then clinched the victory in the third of four
stoppage minutes when he carried the ball from inside his own
half before firing a rising drive past Artur.  “Unfortunately we got hit on the counterattack,” Benfica
coach Jorge Jesus told  UEFA ’s website. “Before halftime,
Chelsea had created very little and we were very positive
throughout the game. The players will leave with their heads
held high.”  Real’s Rout  The other semifinal will feature two clubs that have
combined for 13 European Cup titles after Madrid routed APOEL,
the first team from Cyprus to reach the knockout stages.  Ronaldo opened the scoring in the 26th minute when he
tapped in Marcelo’s cross from the left after it went past two
teammates in front of goal. Kaka then doubled the lead 11
minutes later by curling a 25-yard shot inside the right post.  Gustavo Manduca scored for APOEL midway through the second
half and Ronaldo add his second goal with a free kick in the
75th minute. After Real’s Jose Callejon scored, APOEL’s Esteban
Solari converted a penalty kick. Real’s Angel  di Maria  then
closed the scoring with four minutes left.  “We will do everything possible to reach the final,” Di
Maria said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 