-- Chevron Brazil Suits Double to $22 Billion With New Claim
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 2012-04-04T20:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/chevron-sued-for-another-11-billion-on-brazil-oil-spill.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) 
are being sued for $22 billion in environmental damages in
Brazil, double initial claims, after a federal prosecutor filed
a second lawsuit over oil spills off the nation’s coast.  Chevron committed “a series of errors” that led to the
March spill at Frade, the second incident at the offshore oil
project, the federal prosecutors’ office said in a statement
yesterday. Prosecutor Eduardo Santos de Oliveira is also seeking
to halt operations at Frade and block  San Ramon , California-
based Chevron from transferring  profits  from Brazil.  “The oil spill at the Frade field hasn’t been contained,”
Oliveira said in the statement. “The damages to the environment
and to  Brazil ’s natural resources are incalculable at this
point.”  A leak of 3,000 barrels of crude into the Atlantic Ocean
off Rio de Janeiro’s coast in November and a seep in March have
led to a slew of probes against Chevron and Transocean, which
operated the rig at Frade. Oliveira filed the first 20 billion-
real ($11 billion) lawsuit last year and pressed criminal
charges against executives of the two companies last month,
seeking penalties of as many as 31 years in prison.  Chevron fell 1.4 percent to $105.60 at the close in  New
York . Transocean fell 3.3 percent to $51.87.  Brazil risks discouraging other foreign  oil companies  from
investing in the country as it seeks to develop the largest oil
discoveries in the Americas since  Mexico ’s Cantarell find in
1976, Cleveland Jones, an oil specialist and geology professor
at Rio de Janeiro State University, said in a telephone
interview.  ‘Scared’  “Other companies must be scared, even if they’re 100
percent right, they can be crucified in public opinion,” Jones
said.  A drilling accident caused the November spill after Chevron
underestimated the amount of pressure at a reservoir, causing
oil to leak from the well to fissures on the seabed.  In March, Chevron reported new leaks on the seabed at the
project. Chevron said on March 29 that about a barrel of oil
leaked from the seabed that month. Chevron is collecting the oil
in underwater traps and the incident hasn’t damaged marine life,
the company said.  “Chevron will vigorously defend the company and its
employees,”  Kurt Glaubitz , a spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. He called the charges “outrageous” and
“without merit.”  “The 20 billion-real figure in both civil lawsuits is
arbitrary and has no legal and factual basis,” Glaubitz said.  ‘Safety First’  Transocean “acted responsibly, appropriately and quickly,
putting safety first,”  Guy Cantwell , a spokesman for the
Vernier, Switzerland-based company, said in an e-mail yesterday.
The crew “always maintained control of the well and the rig’s
equipment worked perfectly.”  Oliveira also started a probe into the work by Brazil’s
federal environmental agency Ibama and oil regulator ANP to
monitor companies that explore the country’s offshore fields. He
will also investigate emergency and accident prevention plans at
all platforms operating in the Campos Basin, where about 90
percent of Brazil’s crude is produced.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the country’s state-controlled oil
producer, may be liable for 30 percent of any damages Chevron
must pay at Frade because it has a stake in the project,
according to a March 30 regulatory filing. The $11 billion claim
filed last year was “unreasonable,” Petrobras, as the Rio de
Janeiro-based producer is known, said in the filing.  Petrobras didn’t respond to an e-mail and telephone call
seeking further comments on its exposure to damages.  Other Probes  Chevron holds a 52 percent stake in Frade and is the
operator. Partners include Petrobras and Frade Japao Petroleo
Ltda. -- a joint venture of  INPEX Corp. (1605) ,  Sojitz Corp. (2768)  and  Japan
Oil, Gas and Metals National Corp.  -- with 18.26 percent.  Chevron also faces probes and fines from the ANP, Ibama and
 Rio de Janeiro  state’s environment secretariat.  Oliveira’s criminal charges against Chevron, Transocean and
17 of their top executives in Brazil on March 21 included a
request for them to surrender their passports.  In the first lawsuit seeking damage payments, filed on Dec.
14, Oliveira asked for the suspension of all activities by
Chevron and Transocean in Brazil until a final ruling on the
case. Federal Judge Raffaele Felice Pirro rejected the request
on Feb. 28, arguing it would represent a punishment before the
companies had a chance to defend themselves.  Pirro’s decision preventing the suspension was upheld by a
federal appeals court on March 29, following prosecutor Gisele
Port’s questioning of the ruling three days earlier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  