-- Chilean Peso Falls Most in Week as Fed View Undermines Copper
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-04-04T17:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/chilean-peso-falls-most-in-week-as-fed-view-undermines-copper.html
Chile ’s peso dropped the most in a
week as reduced expectations for Federal Reserve stimulus in the
U.S. eroded the price of copper, Chile’s biggest export, and
boosted the dollar against emerging-market currencies.  Most major Latin American tenders including the Chilean
peso also fell today after yields on Spanish five-year bonds
reached a 12-week high as the country auctioned less debt than
its maximum target.  “All markets are correcting on the Fed and the bad Spanish
bond placement,” said Eduardo Kutscher, a currency trader at
Celfin Capital SA Corredores de Bolsa in Santiago. “It’s all
hitting the local market.”  The peso fell for the first time in four days, depreciating
0.5 percent to 484.04 per  U.S. dollar . It earlier slid 0.6
percent, the most on an intraday basis since March 28. Copper
for May delivery decreased as much as 3.2 percent on the Comex
in  New York .  Offshore investors in the forwards market had a $6.5
billion short position in the peso on April 2, the biggest since
October. Local investors had a $17.1 billion long peso position
in the forwards market, down from $17.5 billion on March 30,
according to central bank data.  Fed policy makers plan to refrain from more monetary
accommodation unless the U.S. economic expansion falters or
annual inflation stays below the 2 percent target, according to
minutes of a March 13 meeting published yesterday.  Inflation Forwards  Chile’s inflation forwards are pricing in a 0.5 percent
increase in consumer prices in March, in line with the  median
forecast  of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg before
tomorrow’s report from the National Statistics Institute. The
annual rate is projected by economists to drop to 4.1 percent
from 4.4 percent.  Forwards for unidades de fomento, Chile’s inflation-linked
currency unit, are discounting 3.55 percent of price increases
this year.  Economic activity  expanded 6.2 percent in February from a
year earlier, accelerating from 5.5 percent growth in January,
according to the median forecast of 14 economists before another
report tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  