-- Christie Said in Talks on Bond Issue for Higher Education
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-04-04T16:56:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/christie-said-in-talks-on-bond-issue-for-higher-education-1-.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie 
is in talks with lawmakers on a plan to seek voter approval to
sell as much as $3.5 billion of bonds for college improvements,
according to two people with knowledge of the discussions.  The referendum would be put on the ballot as soon as this
November and would fund work on dormitories, research labs and
classrooms, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they aren’t authorized to speak publicly about the
talks.  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, declined to
comment on the bond proposal in an e-mail.  Christie, a first-term Republican, said in February he was
working on plans for a “major”  capital investment  in the
university system. He declined to elaborate at the time. Senate
President  Stephen Sweeney , New Jersey’s highest-ranking
Democratic lawmaker, said today that he has held preliminary
talks with Christie about the issue and is drafting a measure.
The size of the proposal hasn’t been determined, Sweeney said.  “We really need to do something,” Sweeney, of West
Deptford, said in a telephone interview. “We still have to
figure out the size of the bond and whether we can create a
revolving pool.”  New Jersey last sold general-obligation bonds to fund
college capital projects in 1988. Talks about a November
referendum were reported earlier by the Wall Street Journal.  20 Years Ago  A sale ranging from $1 billion to $3.5 billion is being
discussed, according to the people familiar with the talks. The
colleges’ list of projects totals as much as $5 billion, they
said.  New Jersey has 31 public colleges, including three research
institutions,  Rutgers University (26542MF) , the New Jersey Institute of
Technology and the University of Medicine & Dentistry of New
Jersey. It also has nine state universities and 19 community
colleges. Combined, the schools serve almost 358,700 full- and
part-time students, according to state figures.  In a 2010 report, a panel commissioned by Christie and
headed by former Governor Thomas Kean to study the state’s
higher-education system said facilities needs were as high as
$5.8 billion in 2005 and had since grown.  Senator  Paul Sarlo , a Democrat from Wood-Ridge and chairman
of the budget committee, said he wants capital funding to be
tackled at the same time as Christie’s plan to fold Rutgers’s
Camden campus into Glassboro-based Rowan University, a four-year
public school. That plan is designed to create a new research
institution in southern New Jersey.  “It’s great to talk about all of the wonderful plans we
have and our commitment to higher education, but let’s make
these capital improvements,” Sarlo said in a telephone
interview today. “As a part of any merger plans, we need to go
to voters and ask them to make an investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  