-- Citigroup Raises South Africa Stocks on Earnings Growth
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-04T11:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/citigroup-lifts-south-africa-equities-to-overweight-on-earnings.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  raised South African
equities to overweight, the equivalent of buy, on expected
“strong” earnings growth and companies’ expansion into
Africa’s fast-growing frontier markets, the bank said.  Citigroup added  Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , Africa’s largest
food retailer, to its top picks “as a play on domestic
demand,” with the bank forecasting economic growth of 3 to 4
percent next year, it said in a report yesterday. Other
preferred stocks include  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) ,  Bidvest Group
Ltd. (BVT) ,  Life Healthcare Group Holdings Ltd. (LHC) ,  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) ,
 Naspers Ltd. (NPN) ,  Sasol Ltd. (SOL)  and Standard Bank Group Ltd.  South Africa’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  trades at
11.2 times estimated 2012 earnings, compared with 10.6 times for
the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index. Citigroup forecasts South
African companies will grow earnings about 20 percent this year,
one of the highest rates among emerging markets, it said.  “Access to Frontier Africa through the South African
equity markets remains a theme of interest to investors looking
for exposure to that region, highlighted by Shoprite’s upcoming
capital raise, a large part of which will go towards expansion
in Africa,” Citigroup analyst Andrew Howell wrote in the note.  Shoprite announced plans last month to raise about 8
billion rand ($1 billion) in a sale of shares and convertible
bonds to bolster its balance sheet, expand its domestic
operations and invest in its expansion into Africa outside  South
Africa .  Nationalization  The “resource nationalization debate” may be dying down
as the ruling African National Congress “continues to rein in
the most vocal supporters of nationalization in the mining
sector”,  Citigroup said.  The ANC expelled Julius Malema, the leader of its youth
wing, on March 1 for undermining party unity and for calling for
the ousting of the government in neighboring Botswana.  The ANC Youth League is pushing for President Jacob Zuma to
be replaced as party leader by his deputy Kgalema Motlanthe at
the ANC’s elective conference in December. The league, which is
calling for the nationalization of mines, banks and land, played
a key role in helping Zuma oust  Thabo Mbeki  as ANC leader in
2007.  “This remains an area to keep an eye on given the upcoming
ANC elective conference,” Howell said in the report.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  declined 1.2 percent by
11:09 a.m. in Johannesburg. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell
1.1 percent.  Citigroup raised Egypt and Chile to neutral from
underweight and retained overweight ratings on South Korea, its
top country pick, Brazil and China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ana Monteiro at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net  