-- Clemens Challenges U.S. Request to Block Trial Statements
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-04-05T02:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/clemens-challenges-u-s-request-to-block-trial-statements-1-.html
Former Major League Baseball pitcher
 Roger Clemens  challenged a U.S. request to block his defense
team from making certain comments to jurors in opening
statements at his retrial on perjury charges.  Clemens, in filings today in federal court in  Washington ,
argues that prosecutors are trying to “preemptively attack”
his defense in the second trial with “cherry-picked and out-of-
context portions” of his lawyer’s opening statement from the
first trial, which the government didn’t object to at the time.  “The government should not be afforded this second bite of
the apple to parse Mr. Clemens’s opening statement from the safe
refuge of their offices after they caused a mistrial,”  Rusty Hardin , a lawyer for Clemens, said in the filing.  The seven-time Cy Young Award winner, whose retrial is
scheduled to begin on April 16, is charged with one count of
obstructing a congressional investigation, three counts of
making false statements and two counts of perjury in connection
with a congressional probe of ballplayers’ alleged use of
performance-enhancing drugs.  If convicted on all charges, he faces as long as 30 years
in prison and a $1.5 million fine.  U.S. District Judge  Reggie Walton  declared a mistrial in
July after finding that prosecutors violated a court order when
they showed the jury a video clip of a 2008 congressional
hearing where the wife of government witness  Andy Pettitte  was
discussed. Walton ruled earlier that no references to Laura
Pettitte, or an affidavit she gave Congress, could be made
during the government’s case.  Government Resources  On March 19, prosecutors asked Walton to bar the defense
from making statements about the amount of government resources
spent in the case or the possible penalties he faces.  “At defendant’s first trial, defendant presented an
opening statement containing an appeal that the jurors put
themselves in defendant’s shoes,” prosecutors said on March 19.
“This type of argument is inappropriate and should be precluded
because it invites jurors to decide the case based on bias,
personal interests, and prejudice instead of the evidence and
the law.”  In a separate filing today, Clemens said the government
shouldn’t be allowed to introduce certain testimony about
Pettitte’s use of human growth hormone. Pettitte was formerly a
teammate of Clemens on the  New York Yankees .  ‘Anticipated Testimony’  “The defense objects to any anticipated testimony
regarding Mr. McNamee’s ‘assistance’ of Mr. Pettitte’s use of
human growth hormone because such testimony would constitute
‘guilt by association’ evidence,” Hardin said in the filing,
referring to Clemens’s former trainer  Brian McNamee .  Walton has scheduled a hearing for April 13 to consider the
requests.  Bill Miller , a spokesman for U.S. Attorney Ronald Machen
declined to comment on the filings.  The charges stem from Clemens’s statements to the House
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform in February 2008,
in an interview with committee staff and later at a public
hearing. Clemens, under oath, denied ever using anabolic
steroids or human growth hormone, according to the indictment.  Pettitte signed a minor-league contract March 17 with the
Yankees. The one-year deal includes an invitation to the Major
League Baseball team’s spring training, the Yankees said in a
statement.  Pettitte said in February 2011 that he decided to end
his 16-year major league career. Yankees General Manager Brian
Cashman said the left-hander approached him during the off
season about possibly returning.  The case is U.S. v. Clemens, 10-cr-00223, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in federal court in Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 