-- Colombia Central Bank Split on Need for Higher Rates
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o   a n d   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-04-04T18:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/colombia-central-bank-split-on-need-for-higher-rates-2-.html
Colombian policy makers meeting last
month were divided over the need to raise  interest rates  further
to keep inflation in check.  The seven-member board, led by central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe, on March 23 voted unanimously to keep the overnight
rate unchanged at 5.25 percent, according to the  minutes  of the
meeting posted on the central bank’s website. The bank had
raised borrowing costs nine times in 13 months.  Colombia has defied a global trend for lower rates, as
record oil production and 22 percent credit expansion helped
power the fastest growth since 2007 last year. Though inflation
and credit demand have eased, further tightening may be needed
to cool household demand, said Brian Lesmes, an analyst at Grupo
Bancolombia in Bogota.  “There is still space for another one or two rate
increases, depending on the evolution of inflation and the
global economy,” Lesmes said in a phone interview. “The bank
would feel more comfortable with slower credit growth,
particularly consumer loans.”  Colombia ’s policy makers in recent months have repeatedly
voiced concern the outlook for inflation amid sustained credit
expansion and economic growth that reached an annual 6.1 percent
in the fourth quarter.  ‘Additional Adjustments’  While noting that inflation expectation have fallen
recently and the pace of total lending has stabilized,
“several” board members said higher borrowing costs may still
be needed, the minutes showed.  “Inflationary pressures continue to weigh on the risk
balance, which means additional adjustments in monetary policy
might be necessary,” policy makers said in the minutes.  Colombia’s annual inflation rate was 3.55 percent in
February after breaching the upper limit of the central bank’s
target range in October for the first time since 2009. Colombia
targets inflation of 3 percent, plus or minus one percentage
point.  The national statistics agency is scheduled to release
March  inflation  data at 7 p.m. Bogota time.  Inflation probably accelerated to 3.63 percent last month
from a year earlier while the monthly rate likely slowed to 0.34
percent from 0.61 percent in February, according to the median
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Neutral Range’  Other board members said the key rate is at a “neutral
range” and therefore “any remaining inflationary pressures
would be controlled in the near future with the measures adopted
so far.”  There are no signs that slower global growth is affecting
the Andean country and the chances that  Europe ’s debt crisis
will slow Colombian activity have reduced, they said.  Colombia’s two rate increases this year are in contrast to
cuts in  emerging markets  worldwide.  Brazil ,  Chile ,  Russia , the  Philippines ,  Israel , Romania,
Moldova, and Mauritius all reduced benchmark lending rates in
recent months amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will derail
global growth.  The peso weakened 0.2 percent to 1772.90 per dollar at 1:43
p.m. local time from 1769.20 yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net ;
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 