-- Colombian Peso Falls From One-Week High as Fed View Saps Risk
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-04-04T18:39:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/colombian-peso-falls-from-near-week-high-as-fed-view-saps-risk.html
Colombia’s peso fell from a one-week
high after the  Federal Reserve  signaled yesterday it may refrain
from more monetary stimulus, sapping demand for higher-yielding
assets.  “There is reduced risk appetite,” said Jorge Cardozo, an
analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados. “The
Fed’s minutes signal less flows into  emerging markets .”  The peso depreciated for the first time in four days,
slipping 0.2 percent to 1,772.90 per  U.S. dollar  today in
Bogota. The currency touched 1,764.51 yesterday, the strongest
level since March 27. Colombian markets are closed tomorrow and
April 6 ahead of the Easter holiday.  The Fed will refrain from increasing monetary accommodation
unless the economic expansion falters or consumer prices rise at
a rate slower than its 2 percent target, according to minutes of
its March 13 policy meeting released yesterday after the close
of  Colombia ’s  currency market .  Colombia’s peso has rallied 9.3 percent this year in the
best performance among the six most-traded Latin America
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The peso will advance to 1,715 this year amid increased
foreign direct investment and as higher  interest rates  attract
portfolio investment, according to Cardozo.  Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry told reporters
yesterday that Colombia should take “more ambitious” measures
to ease gains in the peso. He asked that the central bank carry
out a “deeper intervention” in the currency market.  Central Bank View  Central bank chief Jose Dario Uribe said in an April 2
 interview  with W Radio that the bank’s board members all want a
“more devalued peso” and that measures to ease gains are taken
when the benefit outweighs the costs.  To stem the pace of the local currency’s appreciation, the
central bank has said it will purchase a minimum of $20 million
daily in the  spot market  until at least Aug. 4.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 7.23 percent, according to the central bank. The price
fell 0.214 centavo to 121.98 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  