-- Colorado Treasurer Loses Bid for Pension Plan Data Access
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-04-04T23:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/colorado-treasurer-loses-bid-for-pension-plan-data-access-1-.html
Colorado  Treasurer Walker Stapleton
lost a bid for a court order affording him “unfettered” access
to records of the state’s Public Employees Retirement
Association.  Stapleton, who is a statutory PERA board member, filed suit
in September after his earlier letter request for access to the
records of the top 20 percent of its recipients based upon
annual pension benefits was denied.  He later broadened that request into one seeking
“unfettered access to information” from the PERA board,
arguing his role was akin to that of an ombudsman, Denver County
District Court Judge Edward Bronfin wrote in a 20-page ruling
yesterday denying Stapleton’s request.  “If the legislature had intended the treasurer to serve on
the PERA board as both as a ‘regular’ trustee as well as the
ombudsman-watchdog-dual trustee argued by the treasurer and AG,
it clearly could have said so.” he said of Stapleton and
Colorado Attorney General John Suthers. “It did not.”  Asserting he needed the information to properly discharge
his fiduciary duty to the  pension plan , Stapleton in June asked
the board to provide for the top fifth of its recipients their
annual benefit, year of retirement, age, employer and last five
year’s salaries as a PERA contributor.  He expressly omitted from his request the identities of
those recipients.  Benefit Members  Affirming the board’s denial of his request, Bronfin said
the treasurer failed to explain how his request for the
information would be used solely to benefit the plan’s members
and benefit recipients.  Deputy Treasurer Brett Johnson didn’t immediately reply to
a telephone message seeking comment on the court’s ruling.  The pension plan announced the decision via e-mail and in a
statement posted on its  website .  “Colorado law requires PERA to maintain the
confidentiality of ‘all information’ in PERA’s member records,”
the agency said. “With this ruling, PERA was able to obtain
guidance regarding circumstances under which it can lawfully
disclose information regarding its members and benefit
recipients to PERA Trustees.”  The case is Stapleton v. Public Employees Retirement
Association, 11-cv-6530, Denver County, Colorado, District Court
(Denver).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  