-- Credit-Default Swaps in U.S. Climb as Spain Borrowing Costs Rise
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-04T21:46:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-climb-as-spain-borrowing-costs-rise.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. company
credit risk rose by the most in almost two weeks after  Spain 
sold less debt than targeted and the  Federal Reserve  signaled it
may refrain from more monetary stimulus.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
increased 2.1 basis points to a mid-price of 92.7 basis points
at 5:31 p.m. in  New York , according to Markit Group Ltd. That’s
the biggest rise since March 22.  Traders pushed the measure higher after demand fell in
Spain’s first auctions since announcing that public debt will
surge to a record this year. The yield on the five-year note of
the euro area’s fourth-largest economy reached 4.55 percent, the
highest since Jan. 10, stoking concern that an escalation of
 Europe ’s debt crisis may slow global growth. The Fed, led by
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , will refrain from increasing monetary
accommodation unless the economic expansion falters or prices
rise at a rate slower than its 2 percent target, according to
minutes of its March 13 policy meeting released yesterday.  “Spanish yields were up today, they didn’t get enough
financing that they’d hoped for and equity markets suddenly
discovered that Bernanke and the Fed may not provide support for
QE3 if the economy continues to move ahead,”  Scott MacDonald ,
head of research at MC Asset Management Holdings LLC, said in a
telephone interview from  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The markets
are trying to sort it all out today.”  Heightened Risk  The swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates, has climbed from a more than one-year
low of 84.7 basis points it touched on March 19.  Credit-default swaps tied to  General Electric Co. (GE)  climbed
to the highest level in almost a month after the Fairfield,
Connecticut-based company’s rating was cut by Moody’s Investors
Service, citing “heightened risk” from its finance unit.  The contracts on GE’s finance unit General Electric Capital
Corp. added 9.2 basis points to 146.2 as of 4:30 p.m. in New
York, according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME
Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the
privately negotiated market. That’s the highest level since
March 8.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The ratings company lowered its ranking on GE one level to
Aa3 and its rank on  GE Capital  Corp. two steps to A1, Moody’s
said yesterday in a statement. The cuts reflect “the impact of
GE Capital’s higher risk profile on GE,” in part from a GE
Capital funding model reliant on access to debt markets, Moody’s
said. Without GE’s support, the finance arm would be rated Baa1,
three levels lower, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  