-- TD Bank Overdraft Fee Lawsuit Certified as Class-Action Case
-- B y   S u s a n n a h   N e s m i t h   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-04-04T20:58:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/td-bank-overdraft-fee-lawsuit-certified-as-class-action-case-1-.html
Toronto Dominion Bank (TD)  customers who
claim they were gouged on overdraft fees for checking accounts
can proceed as a group, ruled a judge who certified the case as
a class-action lawsuit.  U.S. District Judge James Lawrence King certified the class
in federal court in Miami, saying it was “eminently
manageable.” TD Bank,  Canada ’s second-largest lender, faces
lawsuits by customers who claim it reordered debits and check
withdrawals to maximize fees when customers overdrew accounts.  “Nearly all of the class members in this case have claims
that are so small that it would cost them much more to litigate
an individual case than they could ever hope to recover in
damages,” King ruled yesterday. “Concentrating the litigation
in this forum is logical and desirable.”  Rebecca Acevedo, a spokeswoman for TD Bank, said the bank
wouldn’t comment on pending litigation.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, has reached a preliminary
agreement to pay $110 million to settle litigation.  Bank of
America Corp. , the second-biggest U.S. bank by assets, agreed
last year to pay $410 million without admitting liability.  Bruce Rogow, one of the lead attorneys for the customers,
said he was pleased with the ruling.  “From the very beginning, I saw all of these cases as
quintessential class actions,” he said in a telephone
interview. “What else could they be?”  All TD Bank Customers  TD Bank’s attorney, Bill Kayatta, argued against the
certification in a March 26 hearing because he said each
customer had a different situation. Some knew that the bank had
a policy of reordering the overdrafts, some learned after they
were charged fees and some may have never known, he said.  The judge ruled the class included all TD Bank customers
who had paid an overdraft fee as a result of the reordering,
from the statute of limitations until Aug. 13, 2010. Different
statutes of limitations will apply in different states, he
ruled.  TD Bank spent more than $25 billion sinde 2004 to expand in
the U.S., including the  acquisitions  of Portland, Maine-based TD
Banknorth and  Cherry Hill , New Jersey-based  Commerce Bancorp
Inc. (CBH)   The case is In re Checking Account Overdraft Litigation,
09-md-02036, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  Florida 
(Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susannah Nesmith in Miami at  susannahnesmith@yahoo.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey , at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  