-- Danny Meyer’s North End Grill Has $58 Steaks, $48 Mess
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/danny-meyer-s-north-end-grill-has-58-steaks-48-mess.html
North End Grill is the new power
spot of choice for Lower  Manhattan .  The steak is $58. The official drink is Scotch. And the
clientele are the corner-office denizens of  Wall Street  and
Hanover Square.  No tasting menus push client dinners past the three-hour
mark; no prix-fixe policies forcing a full stomach to confront
dessert. There are no petits fours, no intermezzos. Don’t expect
a ribbon-wrapped parting gift.  Also no tripe:  Danny Meyer ’s latest is expensive and safe
for the offal-averse.  At North End, the party’s inside, where it smells like
cumin, courtesy of Chef Floyd Cardoz, rallying from his Indian
love affair at the now-closed  Tabla . He’s sending out spiced
fries, which is about as adventurous as things will get.  Try a few bar snacks, which are sort of like amuse bouches
except that you have to pay for them.  Three buffalo wings are $9. Why? Because they’re Poulet
Rouge, the Kobe beef of chicken. The bird is slow-cooked in duck
fat, deboned and grilled. Not your typical Atomic wings.  Silver Tray  A host appears not a minute past your reservation time and
shows you to your table. Bar tabs are transferred with no fuss.
That $13 lavender-honey cocktail you’re drinking (don’t be shy,
it’s made with Scotch) is ferried over on a silver tray.  These are the once-standard courtesies that have gone the
way of gas station attendants and “Thank you.” Meyer reminds
us that dining should be effortless.  Three Champagnes are offered by the glass: For $18 you get
a bright  Pierre Moncuit Blanc de Blancs , a perfect match-up with
clam pizza ($18). The saline bivalves, the kick of chili and the
licorice whisper of cilantro make the pie as balanced as the
bubbly.  Move onto Andre Clouet’s Grand Reserve ($24). Fig flavors
heighten the musky crunch of sauteed soft-shell crab ($18).
Last, there’s the R. Dumont & Fils Brut Rose ($23), with enough
gentle astringency to tango with silky pork belly and fried
oyster ($15).  Lespinasse Laurels  Cardoz’s training at Lespinasse explains the mild Asian
accents. The wood grill doesn’t hurt either, imparting whole
chicken with a smoky fragrance ($52). Fat drippings are soaked
up by focaccia breadcrumbs. The oak smoke also perfumes whole
turbot ($62).  Boredom occasionally threatens. Balsamic glazed salmon
($27) is like any other version circa 1989. Same goes for
scallops and cauliflower ($30). But the chef sets things right
with halibut ($29). Pine nuts, coriander, saffron and clam juice
merge and the result is sublime.  Comfort zones are pushed, though not by much. Crispy cod
throats ($15), which mimic slimy (if tasty) rubber bands in many
Spanish restaurants, get the meuniere treatment here, conferring
a soft crunch like sweetbreads.  Fluke with black truffles, seared into an overcooked choke
hold, was a $46 mess, the truffles’ pungency overwhelming the
distant oceanic flavor.  Smoked pumpkin with paddlefish roe was a study in mush. We
ought to have the option of ordering firmer, pricier sturgeon
caviar.  An entire section of the menu is devoted to eggs, the best
offering of which is a lobster omelet.  And as for the $58 steak (down from $64), order first the
big Fantino barolo ($26 per glass) for the 18-ounce cut. The
beef sports a gamy tang from grass-feeding, a country-ham scent
from oak grilling and a black pepper sting from a red wine
reduction. It tastes like success.  Rating: ** 1/2  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Many mains well over $30; all starters under $20.  Sound Level: Never too loud; around 70 decibels.  Date Place: Sure, go knock knees at the kitchen counter.  Inside Tip: Great lemon meringue pie, butterscotch pudding.  Special Feature: Over 100 Scotch labels.  Back on My Own Dime: Sure thing, when my dime increases.  North End Grill is at 104 North End Ave, Battery Park City.
Information: +1-646-747-1600;  http://northendgrillnyc.com .  
Sound-Level (in decibels): 51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse.
56 to 60: Speak up. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your
date. 66 to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75:
You’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 