-- Sciences-Po Chief Descoings Found Dead in N.Y. Hotel
-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-04-04T20:44:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/descoings-head-of-france-s-sciences-po-found-dead-in-new-york.html
(Corrects medical examiner spokeswoman’s name in fourth
paragraph.)  Richard Descoings, director of
France’s  Sciences Po  institute, was found dead in a hotel room
in  New York . He was 53.  Descoings’s body was discovered in his room at  Manhattan ’s
Michelangelo Hotel at about 12:55 p.m. yesterday, New York City
Police Department spokesman Sergeant John Buthorn said today in
a phone interview.  “Right now we don’t have evidence of a crime, but the
matter’s still under investigation,”  Paul Browne , a spokesman
for the New York police, said in a phone interview.  Descoings’s laptop and mobile phone were found on a third-
floor ledge outside the hotel and may have been thrown out of
the window, Browne said. The results of an autopsy scheduled for
this morning should be available later today, Grace Brugess, a
spokeswoman for the New York City Medical Examiner’s Office,
said in a phone interview.  In his 16 years running Sciences Po, Descoings transformed
the Paris-based university, whose alumni include former
President  Jacques Chirac  and former  United Nations  Secretary
General Boutros Boutros-Ghali. He added programs in economics
and journalism, introduced courses taught in English and
reserved places for students from disadvantaged backgrounds.  Descoings was “a great public servant who dedicated his
entire life to the cause he’d chosen: education,” President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said in a statement. “He was a pioneer in
opening up internationally and in seeking new financing, a
tireless and passionate worker.”  Six Campuses  The school, formally called the Institute for Political
Studies, also opened six campuses outside of Paris and raised
tuition under Descoings. At Sarkozy’s request, he produced a
report on the secondary education system in 2009.  “His accomplishments at Sciences Po were renowned,” said
Socialist presidential candidate  Francois Hollande . “Descoings
still had much to contribute to the educational system.”  Descoings married Nadia Marik, a judge and fellow
administrator at Sciences Po, in 2004.  Descoings checked into the hotel on West 51st Street at
Seventh Avenue by himself on April 1, Browne said. He was one of
two dozen fellow university presidents who were scheduled to
participate in the  Global Colloquium of University Presidents  at
 Columbia University , an annual gathering convened by the
presidents of Columbia, the  University of Pennsylvania ,  Yale
University ,  New York University  and  Princeton University , and
the United Nations.  UN Statement  UN Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon and Columbia University
President Lee Bollinger said in a joint statement that they were
“deeply saddened” by Descoings’ death.  “He was a global leader on education policy, recognized
and honored both in  France  and around the world for his
contributions to research and policy,” Ban and Bollinger said
in the statement.  Descoings was scheduled to meet a colleague in the lobby at
about 7:30 a.m. yesterday, Browne said. When he didn’t arrive,
his colleague assumed he had departed for the conference already
and left the hotel, Browne said.  A hotel worker went into the seventh-floor room to refill
the minibar at about 9:30 a.m., saw Descoings sleeping and left,
Browne said. Descoings was still asleep when a security guard
checked on him just before 11 a.m. after conference attendees
called the hotel, Browne said.  Phone Unanswered  The hotel again sent a guard to check on Descoings at about
12:45 p.m. after his phone went unanswered, and the guard found
him unresponsive, lying on his bed, naked, Browne said. The
hotel called 911, and emergency medical technicians pronounced
Descoings dead at the scene after they were unable to revive
him, Browne said.  There was no visible trauma to his body, said Browne, who
declined to comment on what was found in the room other than
Descoings’ personal belongings.  Prescription drugs and alcohol were found in the room, ABC
News reported, without citing anyone. Browne didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on the report.  A phone message left at the Michelangelo seeking comment on
Descoings’s death wasn’t immediately returned. The hotel is part
of the Florence, Italy-based Starhotels chain run by the Fabri
family, according to its website.  Science Po Website  Sciences Po had no statement on the death or details of
plans for an interim or permanent replacement, a spokeswoman
said. The institute’s  website  has a photo of Descoings smiling
from a row of desks with a banner saying “ Merci  a Richard
Descoings: 1958-2012.”  The spokeswoman for the Paris prosecutor’s office wasn’t
immediately available for comment on the New York investigation.
France’s Foreign Ministry remains in touch with New York police
through its consulate there and had no further comment, a
spokesman in Paris said.  Descoings was born in Paris and graduated from France’s
prestigious  Ecole Nationale d’Administration  in 1985. He worked
at the culture ministry and other governmental posts before
taking charge of budget issues at the education ministry under
Socialist Minister  Jack Lang  in 1992.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  