-- Detroit Council Accepts State Plan to Avoid Bankruptcy
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f
-- 2012-04-05T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/detroit-council-accepts-state-plan-to-avoid-bankruptcy.html
Detroit (9845MF) ’s race to avoid bankruptcy
reached a turning point yesterday as officials of  Michigan (BEESMI) ’s
largest municipality agreed to a plan to avert a state takeover
and fix its finances while retaining some control.  The City Council voted 5-4 to accept an accord designed to
erase a projected deficit of almost $270 million by empowering
an oversight board to review spending cuts and efforts to force
concessions from municipal unions. The plan, supported by Mayor
Dave Bing, has been challenged in court by labor groups.  “This agreement paves the way for a good-faith partnership
that will restore the fiscal integrity taxpayers expect and
ensure the delivery of services that families deserve,”
Republican Governor Rick Snyder said in a statement. “The
magnitude of the city’s financial challenges means that many
difficult decisions lie ahead.”  Implementation of the plan will determine the path for an
iconic city of cars and music that’s in a downward spiral of
deficits and population loss. Majority-black Detroit, whose
relations with the rest of the state are marked by racial
tension, faces the possibility of running out of money in May.
The crisis has pitted Snyder, who is white, against a community
whose population has fallen 25 percent since 2000.  Averting Takeover  The council voted ahead of a deadline facing Snyder today
on whether to appoint an emergency manager with the authority to
strip elected city officials of their power, cut spending and
nullify union contracts in the home of  General Motors Co. (GM) , the
world’s biggest carmaker. Bing, 68, who had abdominal surgery
last month and was readmitted to a hospital yesterday, has
negotiated with the council and governor through his top aides.  “It is time now to begin the monumental task of
stabilizing Detroit’s financial operations, which is and has
always been the mission of Mayor Bing and his administration,”
Deputy Mayor Kirk Lewis said in a statement following the vote.  The consent agreement “ensures that the future of Detroit
is determined by Detroiters and its elected officials,” Lewis
said. The plan “puts us on track to restructure our City
financially and reestablish an infrastructure to make sure
Detroit never faces these financial conditions again.”  Among opponents, Councilwoman JoAnn Watson called the
agreement “patently illegal” and a “pact with sources of
evil.” She has described state intervention as a means to wrest
political power from the city of 714,000 and municipal unions,
calling Snyder’s rescue plan an attempt at “colonization” in
an April 3 public meeting.  Earlier Plan Rejected  The mayor and council had rejected an earlier proposal from
the governor, first elected in 2010.  While Snyder has said the state won’t pay the city’s bills,
he has indicated that  Michigan  will help it get $137 million in
loans to avoid running out of money. Detroit has more than $12
billion in long-term liabilities and was projected to exhaust
its cash supply next month by state Treasurer Andy Dillon.  Michigan is rebounding from recession with a revived U.S.
auto industry. State  unemployment  in February fell to 8.8
percent, dropping below 9 percent for the first time since
September 2008.  Property (SPCSDET)  values have plummeted in Detroit, where about 34
percent of residents live in poverty, more than double the
statewide rate, according to the U.S. Census Bureau. The longest
recession since the Depression drove Michigan’s  jobless  rate as
high as 14.2 percent in August 2009, while automakers GM and
Chrysler Group LLC turned to  Washington  for billions of dollars
in bailouts to stay in business.  New Officers  Under the revised plan accepted by the council, a nine-
member advisory board, appointed by the city and state, will be
charged with supervising efforts to eliminate deficits within
five years. It creates two positions: a chief financial officer
and a municipal program manager to overhaul business practices.  The mayor and council retain their roles under the consent
agreement. The advisory board would have the final word in some
financial matters.  The accord effectively nullifies wage and benefit givebacks
that Bing negotiated with municipal unions as part of his plan
to eliminate the deficit, according to a Feb. 8 council report.
Snyder said the concessions weren’t enough. Bing has asked the
council not to approve the labor deal until the consent
agreement takes effect.  The financial recovery plan requires  Detroit  to negotiate
new union contracts by July 16, with changes to save money.  Court Losses  Union leaders sought to block the accord in court, losing
in two venues yesterday as a federal judge ruled they couldn’t
prevent the governor and city from entering the agreement and a
state appeals court dropped an order that held up action on the
plan. A third challenge to the process awaits consideration by
the Michigan Supreme Court.  The court decisions removed legal obstacles to Detroit’s
financial rescue, Geralyn Lasher, a Snyder spokeswoman, said
yesterday in an interview. “We’re able to move forward.”  The accord gives the oversight board the authority to force
city unions to accept 12 provisions in new contracts, including
putting new hires on 401(k)-like plans, the elimination of so-
called bumping rights, merit-based changes in work rules to
lower costs and letting the city hire contractors to provide
more services.  The consent agreement will interfere with union contracts
with the city, forcing the frustration of collective bargaining,
labor lawyers argued before the federal court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Christoff in Detroit at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Merelman at  smerelman@bloomberg.net 
or  