-- Detroit Unions Can’t Halt City Finances Agreement, Judge Says
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/detroit-unions-can-t-halt-city-fiscal-agreement-judge-says-1-.html
A federal judge said municipal
workers unions can’t stop  Michigan  Governor  Rick Snyder  and
Detroit from entering into an agreement over the city’s fiscal
crisis.  U.S. District Judge Arthur J. Tarnow rejected a request for
a temporary restraining order yesterday, finding the unions
weren’t likely to succeed with their claim, a requirement for
such an order. The unions contended the proposed agreement
violates their members’ rights to collectively bargain.  “Plaintiffs have not shown that the extraordinary remedy
of a TRO is warranted in this case,” Tarnow said in a four-page
decision. “Plaintiffs’ arguments fall short on the critical
factor of whether any of plaintiffs’ three claims have a strong
likelihood of success on the merits.”  The decision came just before  Detroit ’s City Council passed
the state’s plan to erase a projected deficit of almost $270
million by empowering an oversight board to review spending cuts
and efforts to force concessions from municipal unions. The
agreement was supported by Mayor Dave Bing.  Tarnow’s order was the second court defeat yesterday for
challenges to the Detroit financial review process. A Michigan
appeals court earlier yesterday in a separate lawsuit reversed a
state court judge’s order barring the Detroit financial review
team from meeting to discuss the city’s fiscal crisis.  The court decisions remove legal obstacles to the financial
rescue of the city, Geralyn Lasher, a spokesman for Snyder, said
in an interview yesterday. “We’re able to move forward,” she
said.  ‘Financial Stress’  Snyder appointed the team in December after a preliminary
study found the city was in “probable financial stress.” The
team, which has been considering whether Detroit needs an
emergency manager, passed the state proposal yesterday.  Judge  Joyce Draganchuk  of Ingham County Circuit Court this
week issued a temporary restraining order stopping the review
team from meeting after a union official,  Robert Davis , claimed
the board’s term of office expired last month. The team canceled
a scheduled meeting April 3.  Michigan’s Court of Appeals yesterday reversed Draganchuk’s
decision and ordered her to dismiss the lawsuit, finding there
were no time restrictions on the review team’s authority or
actions. Davis couldn’t seek to block the review team from
negotiating an agreement to resolve the crisis, the court said.  In the federal case, a coalition of non-public-safety
unions sued Snyder, Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon and the city
March 30, alleging that a proposed settlement to address the
city’s financial crisis would negate concessions the workers had
already made. The union membership had ratified, or agreed, to
the concessions. The council hasn’t approved the new contracts.  ‘Political Negotiations’  Tarnow yesterday also said he wouldn’t order the council to
approve the contracts or “regulate the political negotiations
between the state and the city.” This “is simply beyond this
court’s authority,” he said.  A third challenge to the Detroit financial review process
awaits consideration by the Michigan Supreme Court.  Davis, in a separate suit, previously claimed the review
team was breaking Michigan’s open-meetings law by conducting
business in private. Ingham County Circuit Court Judge William Collette ruled the team had to hold public meetings. His
separate order last month barring the review team from entering
into an agreement was reversed by the Michigan Court of Appeals.  Davis appealed this decision. The Michigan Supreme Court
hasn’t decided whether it will hear the appeal.  $270 Million Deficit  Detroit, the home of  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker, may have a $270 million deficit by the end of
June, according to a city council report in February.  Dillon said Detroit’s cash will run out in May. Detroit and
Snyder have until today to agree to a recovery proposal, or the
governor could name an emergency manager with sweeping powers
over municipal finances and operations.  “The City of Detroit is facing the most significant
financial crisis in its history,” Michigan Attorney General
Bill Schuette said in his appeal of Draganchuk’s state court
order. The city has “only $1 in assets for every $33 in
liabilities,” he said.  Schuette had asked the appeals court to put Draganchuk’s
order on hold or reverse it. The decision barring further
review-team meetings “effectively” gave Governor Snyder only
two options -- “appoint an emergency manager or do nothing,”
Schuette said in the 10-page appeal. Draganchuk “fundamentally
misunderstands” the effect of her order, he said.  ‘No Middle Ground’  “If the council and the review team couldn’t have agreed,
there was no middle ground,” Lasher, Snyder’s spokeswoman, said
yesterday. “There was a very real sense of urgency.”  The unions said in their lawsuit in federal court in
Detroit that city workers would “suffer irreparable harm if
there is no immediate injunction” barring execution of the
financial stability agreement.  Under the proposed agreement with the state, the “city
will be forced to frustrate the collective bargaining rights of
the coalition unions and their membership,” the unions said in
the lawsuit.  “After the June 30, 2012, expiration of many of the
bargaining agreements, the coalition membership will become
near-at-will employees (save the Detroit civil service system
and Michigan’s black letter contract law) with no contractual
right to continued wages and benefits,” the unions said.  ‘Inserting Itself’  The proposed state plan would interfere with the unions’
contracts with the city,  Richard Mack , a union lawyer, told
Tarnow at a hearing April 3. “The state is inserting itself
where it has no right to insert itself,” he said.  Mack didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment on
yesterday’s ruling.  The harm to the city and the public would be greater “than
any harm plaintiffs would suffer if their request for an
injunction is denied,” the attorney general said in court
papers. “The fiscal instability of the state’s largest city
that could result from issuance of a preliminary injunction does
not and cannot serve public interest.”  The Ingham County lawsuit is Davis v. Detroit Financial
Review Team, 12-315-CZ, Circuit Court, Ingham County, Michigan.
The federal case is Valenti v. Snyder, 12-cv-11461, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  