-- Dimon Letter Derides Contrived, Confusing Financial Rules
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-04-05T17:04:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/dimon-rails-against-contrived-and-confusing-rules.html
Jamie Dimon , chairman and chief
executive officer of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , used his annual
 letter  to shareholders to rail against “contrived” and
confusing financial rules that he said may stymie lending.  U.S. and international officials “made the recovery worse
than it otherwise would have been,” Dimon wrote in the letter
released yesterday. They almost botched the U.S. debt-ceiling
vote, constrained bank leverage “at precisely the wrong time”
and adopted bad and uncoordinated policy, he wrote.  Dimon, 56, defended a banking industry that has been
besieged by new rules and public contempt after lax mortgage
lending contributed to the worst  economic slump  since the Great
Depression. He championed the use of derivatives and the right
of banks to lobby lawmakers, and hailed the  U.S. economy  and
corporations as engines of job growth.  “We have hundreds of rules, many of which are
uncoordinated and inconsistent with each other,” Dimon said in
the 38-page letter, his longest since becoming CEO in December
2005. “Complexity and confusion should have been alleviated,
not compounded.”  Dimon called a cap on debit-card transaction fees, a
provision of the Dodd-Frank Act, “price-fixing by the
government that will have the unfortunate consequence of leaving
millions of Americans unbanked.” Stricter capital rules will
make it “prohibitively more expensive” for banks to lend to
consumers with subprime credit scores, about 40 percent of all
Americans, he said.  ‘Combative by Nature’  “Jamie has taken on this mantle of defending this entire
industry,” said Michael Driscoll, who worked for Dimon as a
trader at the Smith Barney brokerage and is now visiting
professor at Adelphi University in  Garden City ,  New York . “He’s
combative by nature. And like a lot of these alpha dogs, when
he’s backed into a corner, he’s going to bark back.”  Still, Dimon said he agreed with the intent of most of the
financial reforms passed by Congress. He said he supported
giving regulators the authority to unwind failing firms and say
on some executive-compensation issues.  “But the result of the financial reform has not been
intelligent design,” he wrote. “Simplicity, clarity and speed
would be better for the system and better for the economy.”  Phil Angelides , who led the Financial Crisis Inquiry
Commission, said he disagrees with Dimon’s criticisms of the new
regulations.  ‘Almost No Rules’  “In the run-up to the crisis in 2008, we had almost no
rules, almost no cops on the street, and what you want is a
stable financial sector so it can deploy capital to build an
economy in this country,” Angelides said today in an interview
on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret Brennan”
program. “You want risk to take place, but you don’t want it in
the big financial institutions that we backstop as taxpayers.”  Dimon also said big businesses don’t get enough credit for
creating jobs in the U.S.  “We often read that small business is the primary driver
of new jobs -- this is both incorrect and overly simplistic,”
he wrote. Large corporations generally are more stable and
resilient in a recession and companies with more than 500
employees account for 51 percent of all jobs, he wrote.  Most of the “bad actors” responsible for the financial
crisis are gone, Dimon said in the letter. The remaining banks
are stronger than they were four years ago and don’t deserve to
be portrayed in the same light.  ‘Difficult Challenges’  “The frustration with -- and hostility toward -- our
industry continues,” he wrote. “In the face of many difficult
challenges, JPMorgan Chase is trying to do its part. We have not
retrenched. Just the opposite -- we have stepped up.”  He also defended the use of derivatives, saying clients
have a “large need” for them and that such tools help
investors, banks, airlines and farmers to mitigate risk.  “Ninety percent of the global Fortune 500 companies
actively use derivatives,” Dimon wrote. “They don’t use them
because we want them to do so. They use them to manage their own
exposures.”  Dimon gave some reason for hope. U.S. housing is starting
to rebound, fueled by growth in population and jobs, he said.  “If one looks at the leading indicators, all signs are
flashing green,” he wrote. “The turn is coming if it is not
here already.”  Dimon’s Compensation  JPMorgan, even with the housing downturn, generated a
record $19 billion in profit last year and the company rewarded
Dimon with a compensation package totaling $23 million, the same
as a year earlier.  Without the mortgage losses and related costs, the bank
could be earning about $24 billion annually, Dimon said.  “The main difference between what we are earning and what
we should be earning continues to be high costs and losses in
mortgage and mortgage-related issues,” Dimon wrote. While
mortgage losses have abated, they will “persist at elevated
levels for a while longer,” he wrote.  JPMorgan still faces  litigation  from its lending and
mortgage-bond business, even after settling some bigger cases in
the past year.  The company agreed in February to pay $5.3 billion as part
of a $25 billion industrywide settlement with state and federal
officials over abusive foreclosure practices. JPMorgan also
agreed in June to pay $56 million and to reduce  mortgage rates 
for deployed military personnel to settle claims that it
overcharged active-duty soldiers and seized the homes of those
protected by the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  