-- Dodgers Costing $2.15 Billion Hinges on Property Return
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-04-04T20:07:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/dodgers-costing-2-15-billion-hinges-on-property-return.html
The new owners of the  Los Angeles 
Dodgers will need more than great play on the field to justify
the record $2.15 billion they paid for the baseball team. They
may need to transform the real estate surrounding Dodger Stadium
into a money maker, succeeding where their predecessors failed.  Exploiting the property’s value will take years, more
capital and lengthy government review, said David Carter, sports
business professor at the University of Southern  California ’s
Marshall School of Business. Television rights alone won’t be
enough, said Lee Ohanian, an economics professor at the
 University of California , Los Angeles.  “The most likely source could be development of that
land,” Ohanian said in a telephone interview.  New owners led by Guggenheim Partners LLC Chief Executive
Officer Mark R. Walter, sports executive  Stan Kasten  and former
Los Angeles Laker Earvin “Magic” Johnson haven’t outlined
plans for the 250 acres (101 hectares) near downtown. Past
owners including  Frank McCourt , who agreed to sell on March 28,
unsuccessfully proposed everything from a team museum to a
football stadium, leaving the area little changed since 1962.  “It’s a vital piece,” Carter said in a telephone
interview. “It’s a longer slog to get there -- they will get
there -- as opposed to licensing and media rights, which take a
year or so.”  Anniversary Celebration  The Dodgers will celebrate their 50th season at the stadium
in Chavez Ravine, less than 2 miles (3.2 kilometers) north of
Los Angeles City Hall, at an April 10 home opener against the
Pittsburgh Pirates. As part of the purchase, parking lots and
undeveloped land surrounding the stadium were sold for $150
million to a joint venture of McCourt and affiliates of
Guggenheim Baseball Management LLC.  The new owners will need to generate about $50 million in
additional earnings a year, beyond baseball operations and TV
rights, to produce an annual return of about 8 percent on their
investment before taxes, Ohanian said. That’s because they paid
$650 million more than the $1.5 billion he estimates the team to
be worth.  “I was surprised by the $2.15 billion,” Ohanian said.
“It didn’t seem to make sense.”  The Dodgers reported earnings of $11.3 million before
interest and amortization in the 12 months ended March 2011,
according to court documents. Ticket sales accounted for $102.9
million of the $286.5 million in revenue, followed by $49.9
million for broadcast rights.  Record Price  McCourt had been seeking at least $1.5 billion for the
team, people familiar with the bidding who asked not to be named
because the process was confidential, said in February.  The $2.15 billion price tops the $1.1 billion Stephen Ross
paid for the National Football League’s Miami Dolphins, a record
for a professional sports franchise. The previous record for a
Major League Baseball team was the $845 million that Joe Ricketts, founder of  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , paid  Tribune
Co. (TRB)  in 2009 for the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field.  Media rights have provided the biggest source of new
revenue for major-league teams, said Michael Rapkoch, president
of Sports Value Consulting LLC, who has provided studies for
about 80 baseball, football, basketball and hockey franchises.  The  Texas Rangers  signed a 20-year, $3 billion TV contract
with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports in 2010 and reached the  World
Series  the last two seasons. Last year, the Los Angeles Angels
of Anaheim signed a similar contract with Fox, allowing them to
acquire free agents Albert Pujols and C.J. Wilson.  Chapter 11 Bankruptcy  McCourt has until April 6 to make public details of the
sale as part of a plan to leave bankruptcy. He put the Dodgers
into Chapter 11 last June, after Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig
rejected a new TV contract with Fox Sports, which holds the
rights through the 2013 season. The sale must be completed by
April 30, according a divorce settlement with his ex-wife Jamie McCourt, who is owed $131 million.  McCourt may collect more than $1 billion from the sale
before taxes after paying off creditors and his ex-wife,
according to Carter.  The Dodgers’ controlling partner will be Walter, who
oversees $125 billion in assets at Guggenheim, which has
headquarters in  Chicago  and  New York . Michelle Lee, a
spokeswoman for the partnership, declined to comment on plans
for the real estate or stadium.  Magic Johnson  Others in the partnership include Kasten, a former
president of the Atlanta Braves and Washington Nationals, and
Johnson, the hall-of-fame Lakers guard whose post-basketball
career has included real estate investing and development.  The new owners may have to spend as much as $400 million to
renovate the stadium and improve the team, said Kenneth Lombard,
president of Johnson’s development company from 1992 to 2004.  “Over the years, it has been thought of for mixed-use and
housing or as the place for a football stadium,” said Lombard,
now a partner of Capri Capital Partners, a Chicago-based real
estate investment firm with $3.6 billion in property and
financial investments. “I think we’re probably looking at a
three-to-five-year horizon during which you could make something
happen if you’re focused.”  While the Los Angeles commercial real estate market hasn’t
recovered from the recession, Chavez Ravine’s potential value
comes from its proximity to downtown, “almost within walking
distance of 300,000 jobs,” said Carl Muhlstein, an executive
vice president at the downtown Los Angeles office of Cushman &
Wakefield Inc.  Stadium Safety  The owners will also have to improve traffic and safety at
the stadium to win support of the neighbors and the city before
new development is approved, said City Councilman Ed Reyes, who
represents the area and chairs the council’s planning and land-
use management committee.  “I’d be more than happy to work with them,” Reyes said in
a telephone interview. “But this is not the old rancho days
when I just give you a piece of land because I like you.”  On opening day last year, a San Francisco Giants fan
suffered severe brain injuries when he was beaten in the Dodger
Stadium parking lot. The Dodgers finished the season 82-79, or
13th out of the 30 Major League teams.  McCourt, who made his fortune as a parking-lot developer in
 Boston , bought the team for $430 million in 2004 and sold it
after  Major League Baseball  accused him in bankruptcy court of
being “unable to properly distinguish between his personal
interests and those of the club.”  Football-Stadium Proposal  McCourt’s price broke down to $330 million for the team and
$100 million for the real estate, including the stadium. Under
the terms of his sale to the Guggenheim group, the property
without the stadium has a $300 million value.  A football-stadium proposal for Chavez Ravine would face
competition from two other investment groups trying to lure an
NFL franchise to the Los Angeles area, which hasn’t hosted a
home team since 1994, before the Rams moved to  St. Louis  and the
Raiders returned to Oakland.  Philip Anschutz , owner of Los Angeles-based AEG Worldwide,
plans to release a 10,000-page environmental impact report for a
$1 billion, 60,000-seat stadium in downtown Los Angeles as soon
as tomorrow, said Michael Roth, a company spokesman. Edward P. Roski Jr., chairman of Majestic Realty Co., has been trying to
lure an NFL team to a site in the City of Industry, 20 miles
east of downtown.  ‘Behind the Scenes’  A Chavez Ravine football stadium is “something I’m sure
behind the scenes gets a bit of whisper activity right now
because the land is entitled” for use for sporting events, said
Lombard, Johnson’s former partner. “Having said that, looking
at mixed-use options is probably the buyers’ primary focus.”  The owners of the NFL’s  New England Patriots  developed a
1.3 million-square-foot (121,000-square-meter) complex adjacent
to Gillette Stadium. Patriot Place’s shopping center, movie
theaters, hotel and medical center attract visitors on non-game
days. AEG built an entertainment-and-hotel complex called L.A.
Live in downtown Los Angeles, across the street from Staples
Center, home of the Lakers.  The San Francisco Giants baseball team today announced
plans for a $1.6 billion office, housing and retail project for
its stadium parking lot.  Losing Bids  The winning group for the Dodgers was chosen by McCourt
over offers from billionaire Steve Cohen, who runs hedge fund
manager SAC Capital Advisors LP, and  Stan Kroenke , who owns the
 National Football League ’s St. Louis Rams and Arsenal of English
soccer’s Premier League. Cohen and Kroenke didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Rick Caruso, a Los Angeles-based developer, dropped out of
the bidding after McCourt insisted on keeping a share of the
land and parking rights, he said in a Feb. 27 interview with
Bloomberg Television.  Chavez Ravine was home to a community of predominantly
Mexican-American immigrants who were driven out under a plan to
build public housing. When the Dodgers left  Brooklyn  for Los
Angeles in 1958, the land was an incentive for owner Walter O’Malley to move west.  Few teams control real estate with the potential value of
Chavez Ravine, said Roger Noll, professor emeritus of economics
at  Stanford University . Unlike fans in other cities, most Dodger
lovers are a captive audience with limited access to public
transit and few options for dining nearby. The new owners may
boost revenue by adding amenities to the property.  “I don’t know a stadium where there’s so much land
associated with a sports team,” Noll said in a telephone
interview. “At the time it was built, it was state of the art.
But obviously it’s out of date now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Gittelsohn in Los Angeles at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  