-- Don’t Worry About Deficit That Will Heal Itself
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-04-04T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/don-t-worry-about-deficit-that-will-heal-itself.html
I’m not particularly worried about
the  budget deficit . In fact, of all the major problems the U.S.
faces, I’m least worried about the deficit.  That’s not because we don’t have to get the problem under
control; it’s because I’m pretty sure we will. Why? The  budget
deficit  is unique: If Congress is unable to agree on a remedy,
the problem goes away on its own. Would that all of our
challenges were so cooperative.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  calls the end of
2012 “a fiscal cliff.” The Bush tax cuts are set to expire.
The $1.2 trillion spending sequester, enforcing cuts in the
defense and domestic budgets, is set to go off. Various stimulus
measures -- including the payroll tax cut -- are scheduled to
end. “Taken together,”  writes  the Committee for a Responsible
Federal Budget, “these policies would reduce ten-year deficits
by over $6.8 trillion relative to realistic current policy
projections -- enough to put the debt on a sharp downward
path.”  In fact, if Congress gridlocks -- and what does Congress do
these days but gridlock? -- we face the prospect of too much
deficit reduction too fast. The  Congressional Budget Office 
estimates that barreling over the fiscal cliff would increase
 unemployment  by 1.1 percent in 2013.  Common Goal  Inaction isn’t inevitable: Deficit reduction is an unusual
issue in that both parties fundamentally agree on the goal, even
if they don’t agree on how to achieve it. This past week, for
instance, President  Barack Obama  and Representative  Paul Ryan 
traded barbs on how best to go about it. The same can’t be said
for issues such as catastrophic climate change or access to
health insurance, in which the two parties disagree on whether
there’s even a problem that needs federal action.  Finally,  Washington  is thick with potential crises -- real
and invented -- that will be used to increase the urgency of
deficit reduction. There are appropriations bills to pass in
order to keep the federal government functioning. There’s
raising the debt ceiling, which we’re expected to breach at the
end of 2012. There’s the expiration of the various tax cuts and
stimulus measures. And, if all this is somehow surmounted
without further deficit reduction, there’s the eventual pressure
the  bond market  will exert on the economy and policy makers. No
other issue is subject to such a varied and continuous array of
forcing mechanisms.  Some of those mechanisms have already proved their
effectiveness. The 2010 debt-ceiling debate led to the  Simpson-
Bowles commission . The 2011 government-shutdown debate led to a
small deficit-reduction package -- the participants estimated it
at $37 billion over 10 years. The 2011 debt-ceiling debate,
though a disaster for the economy, led to a deficit-reduction
plan of $2.1 trillion -- about half the size of the  Simpson-
Bowles plan . These outcomes point the way to deficit deals that
might be struck in the next year or two, with the potential to
stabilize our finances for the next decade or more.  That won’t comfort some of the most ardent deficit hawks.
They are, for better or worse, considerably more farsighted.
They brandish charts showing scary red lines reaching out to
2080. Those charts show a huge problem that requires radical
solutions. I know those charts well. I’ve used them myself. But
those charts are really about health-care spending, as you can
 see here . What they’re really telling us is this: If you look at
how medical costs have risen in recent decades and you draw that
line out for 70 more years, we’re really in trouble. And that’s
true: We are.  But there’s something ridiculous about extrapolating
current trends all the way out to 2080. By that point, we’ll
probably either be robots, the servants of robots or a bit of
both. Either way, the health-care system will probably undergo
dramatic change.  No Pacemakers  Look what happens when you turn back the clock 70 years
from today. That puts you in 1942, the year John Bumstead and
Orvan Hess first saved a patient’s life using penicillin. There
were no pacemakers, oral contraceptives or chemotherapy. Water
wasn’t fluoridated, and health insurance was a niche product.
Imagine trying to predict the trajectory of today’s health-care
system from that vantage point. How incredibly, hilariously
wrong would we have been?  In part for that reason, we don’t balance the budget for 70
years at a time. Indeed, we usually don’t even balance it for 10
years at a time. Instead, we muddle through, striking deals that
are smaller than wonks like, but sufficient to keep us out of
the woods. That’s what we did in the 1990s, which featured
deficit-reduction bills in 1991, 1993, 1995 and 1997. We’ll
probably follow a similar path in the decade to come.  Of course, you can muddle wisely or muddle stupidly. I
worry we’ll choose the latter. Evidence is already mounting: The
sequester is a stupid way to cut spending. Letting the Bush tax
cuts expire all at once is a stupid way to raise taxes. And
repeatedly forcing the country to the brink of default is a
stupid way to manage our budget.  Worse, too much deficit reduction too fast will hurt
economic growth. You can see that happening in  Europe , where an
excess of austerity has tipped a number of nations into fiscal
holes they can’t seem to climb out of. In a city as obsessed
with deficits as Washington, yet unwilling to strike smart deals
that pair long-term deficit reduction with short-term support
for the economy, a bad turn in the economy or a set of policy
misjudgments remain a real threat.  Nevertheless, I’m confident that we will, one way or
another, muddle through. Because when it comes to the deficit,
Congress really has two choices: Do something to solve it, or do
nothing and let that solve it. The same can’t be said for issues
such as infrastructure and loose nukes and  climate change  and
preparing for pandemic flu. On those questions, congressional
inaction isn’t enough to make the problem disappear. So those
are the issues I worry about.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  For Related News and Information:  Today’s highlights: The View editors on the  real Mitt Romney ,
austerity  in Spain  and the Muslim Brotherhood’s  political rise ;
 Caroline Baum  on  scapegoating oil companies ;  Jonathan Weil  on
 Groupon’s IPO ;   Susan Antilla  on the  JOBS act ; and Rowan
Jacobsen on  atrocities in Myanmar .  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 