-- Draghi Says Inflation Risks Prevail as Economy Stabilizes
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-04T15:40:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/draghi-says-inflation-risks-prevail-as-economy-stabilizes.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said policy makers are prepared to act against
inflation threats if needed, while assuring investors that the
ECB doesn’t plan to withdraw emergency stimulus any time soon.  “All the necessary tools are available to address upside
risks to  price stability  in a firm and timely manner,” Draghi
told reporters in Frankfurt after the ECB held its  benchmark
rate  at a record low of 1 percent today. At the same time, it’s
premature to talk about the ECB’s exit strategy, Draghi said,
adding that the economic outlook is subject to downside risks
and inflation will remain contained in the medium term.  The ECB is balancing the threat of inflation in  Germany ,
Europe’s largest economy, against the need to fight the
sovereign debt crisis. While nations from  Greece  to Spain are
battling recessions and record unemployment, workers in Germany
are winning some of the biggest pay increases in 20 years.  “Today’s press conference was a strange brew between
reassuring the markets that talk of an exit strategy is
premature and trying to alleviate the German fear of an uptick
in inflation,” said Peter Vanden Houte, an economist at ING
Group in Brussels. “The ECB’s policy has been criticized in
Germany as potentially stoking inflation. Draghi clearly wanted
to set things straight.”  Inflation Breach  The euro and German bunds were little changed after
Draghi’s comments. The single currency traded at $1.3130 at 5:24
p.m. in  Frankfurt , down 0.8 percent on the day, and the yield on
Germany’s 10-year bund was at 1.80 percent.  The ECB predicts higher energy costs will keep euro-area
 inflation  above its 2 percent limit this year before it slows in
2013. The rate was 2.6 percent in March.  “We will pay particular attention to any signs of pass-
through from energy prices to wages,” Draghi said. “However,
looking ahead, in an environment of modest growth in the euro
area and well-anchored long-term inflation expectations,
underlying price pressures should remain limited.”  Draghi’s inflation warning comes just months after the ECB
cut borrowing costs and pumped more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of cheap cash into  Europe ’s banking system to stem the
debt crisis.  Asked about today’s pledge to act on price risks in a
“firm and timely manner” -- a new comment in the policy
statement -- Draghi said: “I don’t think I’m stepping up my
rhetoric on inflation.”  German Wages  He declined to comment on recent wage settlements in
Germany, where 2 million public service workers are set for a
6.3 percent raise over two years, according to the Ver.di union.
It would be the biggest increase negotiated by the union since
1992.  IG Metall , Europe’s biggest labor union with about 3.6
million workers, is demanding 6.5 percent more pay.  Draghi “sounded slightly more hawkish, possibly under
pressure” from Germany’s Bundesbank, said  Christian Schulz , an
economist at Berenberg Bank in  London . “A further rate cut
looks even less likely at the moment,” he said, though “Draghi
firmly rejected the demands for an exit strategy coming in
particular from the Bundesbank.”  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann was one of the first ECB
policy makers to start talking about an eventual exit from
stimulus measures, saying the emergency lending to banks entails
significant risks.  ‘Last Word’  Draghi said today that “any exit strategy talk for the
time being is premature,” and “the president of the ECB is the
one who’ll have the last word on this.”  The ECB’s three-year loans to banks have helped ease
tensions on financial markets, lowering borrowing costs for
debt-strapped governments.  Still,  Spain ’s 10-year bond yield has risen back above 5.6
percent, a level last seen before the ECB’s first round of loans
in December. The country, which struggled to attract demand at a
bond auction today, is in “extreme difficulty,” Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  said as he sought to defend the deepest budget
cuts in three decades.  The 17-nation euro economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
year, according to the European Commission, which projects
contractions in  Italy , Spain,  Belgium , Greece, Cyprus, the
Netherlands, Portugal and Slovenia. By contrast, Germany’s
economy is forecast to expand 0.6 percent.  “Barring a renewed major downturn in euro-zone economic
activity, we now doubt that the ECB will trim  interest rates 
further,” said  Howard Archer , chief European economist at IHS
Global Insight in London. “While we believe that there remains
a compelling case for lower interest rates,” the ECB may stay
on hold “for an extended period, very possibly through to
2014,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  