-- Draghi Scotches ECB Exit Talk as Spain Keeps Crisis Alive
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-05T07:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/draghi-scotches-ecb-exit-talk-as-spain-keeps-debt-crisis-alive.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  quashed talk of an early exit from emergency
stimulus measures as Spain struggled to borrow in financial
markets, a reminder of the risk that the region’s debt crisis
could flare again.  Speaking just hours after Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  warned his country faces “extreme difficulty,” Draghi
said yesterday that talk of the ECB starting to withdraw its
support for euro-area banks is “premature.” At the same time,
in a nod to growing inflation concerns in Germany, he said the
ECB won’t hesitate to counter price risks if needed. Policy
makers left their  benchmark rate  at a record low of 1 percent.  The ECB has expanded its balance sheet by about 30 percent
since Draghi took office in November, pumping more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking system in a bid
to stem the debt crisis. Pressure to unwind the emergency
measures is rising in  Germany , where workers are winning some of
the biggest pay increases in two decades, threatening to stoke
inflation.  “Premature Bundesbank calls for an ECB exit strategy have
now triggered a new round of market wobbles, with a focus on
Spain,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg
Bank in  London . “The risk of a new irrational market panic
remains serious.”  Spanish Yields  European  stocks  rose, with the Stoxx Europe 600 Index
rebounding from its biggest retreat in four weeks, as  France 
prepares to sell long-term debt. The country will sell as much
as 8.5 billion euros of 5, 15 and 30-year bonds and notes today.  While the ECB’s three-year loans to banks have helped ease
tensions on financial markets, lowering borrowing costs for
debt-strapped governments, bond yields are rising again in
 Spain .  The euro area’s fourth-largest economy sold 2.59 billion
euros of bonds yesterday, just covering the minimum amount
targeted. After the auction, yields on the country’s ten-year
bonds surged to more than 5.6 percent, the highest in three
months.  “Spain is facing an economic situation of extreme
difficulty, I repeat, of extreme difficulty, and anyone who
doesn’t understand that is fooling themselves,” Rajoy told a
meeting of his  People’s Party  as he seeks to push through the
deepest budget cuts in three decades.  Exit Pressure  Declining to comment directly on the Spanish auction,
Draghi said governments must make use of the window of
opportunity created by the ECB’s emergency measures to deliver
on promised structural reforms and fiscal consolidation.  Draghi faces pressure from some ECB policy makers to start
planning an exit as higher energy costs keep euro-area inflation
above the central bank’s 2 percent limit and price pressures
brew in Germany.  Two million public service workers in  Europe ’s largest
economy will get a pay increase of 6.3 percent by the end of
next year under a deal struck with the government, according to
the Ver.di union.  IG Metall , Europe’s biggest labor union with
about 3.6 million workers, is demanding 6.5 percent more pay.  The ECB hardened its tone on inflation in yesterday’s
policy statement, saying “all the necessary tools are available
to address upside risks to price stability in a firm and timely
manner” and that it will pay “particular attention to any
signs of pass-through from energy prices to wages.”  ‘Stuck’  Still, Draghi said the economic outlook is subject to
downside risks and inflation will remain contained in the medium
term.  “The combination of inflation and sovereign debt risks
essentially leave the ECB stuck between a rock and a hard
place,” said  Nick Kounis , head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in
Amsterdam. “The central bank is likely to keep interest rates
and non-standard measures unchanged for the foreseeable
future.”  Widening economic divergences in the 17-nation euro area
and the threat of the debt crisis intensifying again make it
harder for the ECB to set its “one-size-fits-all” policy.  The European Commission forecasts growth of 0.6 percent in
Germany this year and contractions in  Italy , Spain, Belgium,
 Greece , Cyprus, the Netherlands, Portugal and Slovenia. The
euro-area economy is projected to shrink 0.3 percent.  Spanish Woes  “Single monetary policy naturally focuses on maintaining
medium-term  price stability  for the euro area as a whole,”
Draghi said. “It is up to national policy makers to foster
domestic developments which support the competitiveness of their
economies.”  Spain is struggling with unemployment in excess of 23
percent and a  budget deficit  that hasn’t been under the European
Union’s 3 percent limit since 2007. Investors began to doubt the
country’s ability to carry a debt load of nearly 70 percent of
gross domestic product last year after the debt crisis spread
beyond Greece. Spain’s debt-to-GDP-ratio may rise to almost 80
percent in 2012.  In defending budget reductions worth more than 27 billion
euros to cut 3.2 percent from the national deficit, Rajoy raised
the specter of an international bailout that would see Spain
join Greece, Ireland and Portugal in needing EU and
International Monetary Fund aid.  “We remain concerned about the risk of another bout of
financial market tensions linked to the debt crisis, and note
the troubling rise in bond spreads in both Italy and Spain in
recent weeks as a potential early sign of re-emergence of market
stress,” said Simon Barry, chief economist at  Ulster Bank  in
Dublin. “On balance, we think that if there is to be a move in
ECB  interest rates  this year, it’s more likely to be a cut
rather than a hike.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  