-- Dynegy Reaches Deal With Creditors After Examiner Report
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-04-04T17:17:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/dynegy-reaches-deal-with-creditors-company-lawyer-says.html
Dynegy Inc. (DYN)  reached a settlement
with creditors of a bankrupt unit after a court-ordered
investigation found that they were harmed by the power
producer’s 2011 restructuring.  The creditors hold more than $2.5 billion in claims against
the unit, Dynegy Holdings LLC, Houston-based Dynegy said in a
statement today. The deal clears a path for the unit to
reorganize and exit bankruptcy, Matthew Clemente, a lawyer for
the company, said in court. Dynegy plunged 30 percent to 36
cents at 1:01 p.m. in New York.  A court-appointed examiner concluded in a report filed last
month that last year’s shift of coal-fired  power plants  from the
unit to the Dynegy parent was a fraudulent transfer that harmed
creditors. Afterward, the U.S. Trustee, a Justice Department arm
that monitors bankruptcies, asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Cecelia Morris in Poughkeepsie,  New York , to appoint a trustee to run
the units in bankruptcy.  The examiner’s report demonstrates “gross mismanagement on
the part of current management,” the U.S. Trustee said in court
papers. Dynegy put Dynegy Holdings and four other units into
bankruptcy in November to complete a debt-restructuring accord
with noteholders.  Under the creditor agreement announced today, claims that
would have taken years to resolve will be settled and released,
Dynegy Chief Executive Office Robert C. Flexon said in the
statement. The accord requires court approval.  Creditors’ Stake  “This agreement in principle recognizes the continuing
decline in natural gas prices and the associated impact this has
on our business while also addressing all of the complex issues
raised by the examiner’s report,” Flexon said.  Dynegy expects to end the units’ bankruptcy case during the
third quarter, he said. Dynegy Holdings’ unsecured creditors
will get 99 percent of the equity in the reorganized company,
Dynegy said. The parent will get a claim on behalf of existing
shareholders for 1 percent of the reorganized company’s common
stock and warrants.  Dynegy is the fourth-largest U.S. independent power
producer by revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Independent power producers don’t own  power lines  and get no
revenue from state or federally regulated rates. The company
posted a  net loss  of about $235 million in 2010 on sales of
$2.32 billion as electricity prices fell.  The case is In re Dynegy Holdings LLC, 11-38111,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Poughkeepsie).  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  