-- The Real (Moderate) Mitt Romney Finally Stands Up
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-04T11:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/the-real-moderate-mitt-romney-finally-stands-up.html
Mitt Romney , believing with good
reason that he has the Republican nomination sewn up (or at
least that if anything gets in the way at this point, it will be
too bizarre to plan for), has turned from attacks on his fellow
Republican contenders to concentrate on President  Barack Obama .  This is the campaign’s  Etch A Sketch moment : time to shake
the slate clean of its hard-right positions and start again. In
other words: Flip now, flop later. With Romney’s primary
victories yesterday in Wisconsin,  Maryland  and the  District of
Columbia , now it’s later.  On Friday in Appleton, Wisconsin,  Romney delivered  what is
probably Version 1.0 of what will become his standard stump
speech. It provides some clues to Romney’s true nature.  Romney predicts, as if he were a weatherman who is just
reporting the storm, that “this campaign will produce a
deafening cacophony of charges and countercharges.” That’s
probably true, though he theoretically has some say in the
matter. His campaign can be as high-minded as he would like. And
the speech did contain bits of statesmanlike yin-yangery.
Consider: “President Obama did not cause the recession, but he
most certainly failed to lead the recovery.” Or: “Regulations
are necessary, but they must be continuously updated,
streamlined and modernized.”  Acknowledgments that Obama did not cause the recession and
that regulations are sometimes necessary are welcome. They also
put Romney at the far left of his party.  Romney criticizes Obama for saying he wants to “transform
this nation,” whereas he, Romney, wants “to restore the values
of economic freedom, opportunity and small government that have
made this nation the leader it is.”  Small government made this nation great? Uh, World War II?
Social Security? The Civil Rights Act? There are exceptions (the
 Transportation Security Administration , for example), but many
of America’s greatest moments involved an expansion of
government, not a shrinking of it.  Polls and politicians are always claiming that Americans
are fed up and want the country to change directions in some
fundamental way. But Romney, or his advisers, is smart enough to
realize that this is just a national tic. People really don’t
want fundamental change. “Transform” is an ominous word.
“Restore” is nice and soothing.  Obama, Romney says, “was elected not on the strength of a
compelling record but a compelling personality and story.”
Interestingly, Romney says that the differences between the
candidates can be explained by “our life experiences.” Is he
actually going to make the case that growing up in a stable,
affluent suburban family, with a father who was head of an auto
company and later governor of  Michigan , is a more useful life
experience than Obama’s?  Yes, he is. Obama was a community organizer. “His desire to
help others could not be more admirable, but …" Well, you know,
this helping others stuff can be taken too far. Says Romney, who
ran the private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC: “Apple Computer
and Microsoft weren’t started to save the world and neither were
General Motors or Alcoa. Nor were some of the companies I helped
start like Staples or The  Sports Authority . … They became great
commercial ventures, which is another way of saying they made a
lot of money.”  Romney is right that free market capitalism has done more
for the U.S. (and the world) than any do-good organization.
Nevertheless, it’s a brave politician who builds his campaign
around the idea that graduating from  Harvard Law School  and
going off to serve the poor in  Chicago  is less admirable than
graduating from Harvard Law School and going off to advise big
corporations at a consulting firm.  Regarding the economy, Romney says that Obama’s stimulus
program was a failure because it “protected the government, not
the people,” whatever that means. Bloomberg Government
 calculates  that Romney’s proposed federal budget will actually
run up a larger debt than Obama’s. That is because it includes a
large  tax cut  for everybody, with no compensating spending cuts.  Romney is, at this point, far too identified as a flip-
flopper to do much actual flip-flopping. He’s stuck with the
positions he had on all the right-wing hot-button issues when
the music stopped. But, as this  Wisconsin  speech demonstrates,
you can Etch A Sketch a new you without getting into all that.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  systemically important
financial entities  and sanctions as  tools of diplomacy ;  Peter
Orszag  on  student performance and food stamps ; William Pesek on
 Japan ’s  embrace of Herbert Hoover ; Clive Crook on  “Why Nations
Fail” ; and Clare Malone on  Yale’s campus in illiberal Singapore .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 