-- ECB’s Draghi Sees ‘Upside Risks’ to Outlook for Inflation
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-04T13:35:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ecb-s-draghi-says-there-are-upside-risks-to-inflation-outlook.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi comments on inflation, monetary policy and the
region’s debt crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in Frankfurt
today after the ECB kept its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged
at a record low of 1 percent.  On the ECB’s long-term loans:  “The projections that we have discussed don’t take into
account the impact of the second LTRO.” It is “a partial
analysis.”  “The LTROs are powerful and complex measures” and have
“affected all the funding channels. We have to look at exactly
what is happening here.”  “These two operations have helped avoid a major credit
crunch.”  “We don’t see any sign that banks are being addicted to
the ECB.”  “The two LTROs are a window of opportunity for governments
to undertake fiscal consolidation and structural reforms.”  “Banks need to deleverage in an orderly fashion.”  “Let’s keep in mind this is not capital, this is liquidity
we provide banks with. If banks don’t have capital, better raise
it now.”  On timing of ECB exit:  “We have to assess month by month the outlook for  price
stability .”  Any talk of an exit strategy “for the time being is
premature.”  “There are inflationary pressures coming from higher oil
price but inflation expectations are anchored for the medium
term.”  “There wasn’t any discussion about interest-rate changes”
at today’s meeting. Draghi also said today’s decision was
unanimous.  On inflation:  “The information that has become available since the
beginning of March broadly confirms our previous assessment.  ‘‘We expect price developments to remain in line with price
stability.’’  ‘‘Inflation rates are likely to stay above 2 percent for
2012 with upside risks prevailing.’’  This is ‘‘owing mainly to recent increases in energy prices
as well as rises in indirect taxes.’’  ‘‘We will pay particular attention to any sign of pass
through from energy prices to wages.’’  ‘‘Underlying price pressures should remain limited.’’  ‘‘All the necessary tools are available to address upside
risks to price stability in a firm and timely manner.’’  ‘‘Risks to outlook for HICP inflation rates in coming years
still remain broadly balanced.’’  On the ECB’s monitoring of inflation:  ‘‘We do look at numbers obviously but the thing we look at
mostly at is pass through.’  ‘‘You can have high energy prices, but we don’t see the
pass through.’’  On ECB’s language on inflation:  ‘‘Don’t think I’m stepping up my rhetoric on inflation.”  “The ECB has always said that exogenous increases ought to
be contrasted to the extent that they pass through.”  “I won’t comment on any individual wage settlement,” he
said when asked about wage deals in  Germany .  “We also have to take into account productivity. Our
primary mandate is to maintain price stability.”  On the economic outlook:  “Growth has stabilized at low levels” and a “moderate
recovery is expected in course of the year.”  “The economic outlook subject to downside risks.”  “We continue to expect the euro-area economy to recover
gradually in the course of the year.”  “The remaining tensions in euro area sovereign-debt
markets are expected to dampen economic momentum.”  “Downside risks also relate to further increases in
commodity prices.”  On credit growth:  “Money and credit growth confirm the broad stabilization
of financial conditions.”  “Financing conditions for bank have generally improved.”  “Demand for credit remains weak in light of ongoing
subdued economic activity.”  The “full supportive impact of the eurosystems non-
standard measures will need time.”  “It is essential for banks to strengthen their resilience
further.”  “The two LTROs were conceived and designed so that banks
that are close to” small and medium sized enterprises “can
access this money.”  “We aren’t sure this money is closer to the SMEs yet, you
need time.”  On government budgets:  “In order to support confidence, sustainable growth and
employment, the governing council calls on governments to
restore sound fiscal positions.”  “National policy makers need to fully meet their
responsibility.”  “Countries which have suffered losses in cost
competitiveness need to ensure sufficient wage adjustment.”  “Fiscal consolidation will eventually stabilize financial
conditions.”  “That’s why we said all along that structural reforms are
essential to produce long-term sustainable growth.”  “Much of the growth in countries that are now experiencing
contraction will have to come from supply reforms.”  On ECB measures:  “All our non standard measures are temporary in nature.”  On Greek banks:  “We are assessing the positions of the Greek banks.”  “There will be a decision on which Greek banks are viable
as counterparties for monetary policy operations and which are
not viable. This process is taking place right now.”  “We have a 50 billion-euro recapitalization fund. Twenty
five has become available to allow recapitalization of Greek
banks.”  “Everything will happen in an orderly fashion, according
to the plan agreed with the troika.”  On ECB, national central bank collateral rules:  “These are banks’ bonds. Bonds issued by banks and
guaranteed by national governments.”  “These banks can hand these bonds to their central banks
as collateral to their” national central banks and the ECB.  “Sometimes it happens that they give this collateral to
NCBs in other countries.”  “It’s natural that we grant NCBs freedom, since they’re
the ones talking risk.”  “When all this is said and done, we are really talking
about peanuts.”  “Unfortunately there was a big confusion in communication.
We are talking about a very narrow and restricted set.”  “It was way overblown in communication terms.”  On Ireland:  “Ireland has undergone a very hard and harsh fiscal
consolidation program. From all angles they deserve to be
praised for their efforts.”  On ECB covered-bond program:  “Demand for these kinds of bonds went up.”  “This is why we monitor the program to judge whether it is
appropriate in present monetary conditions.”  “We’ve slowed down the program, and we’re monitoring the
appropriateness of the program in present market conditions.”  “We have not done quantitative easing, we are not
purchasing bonds outright.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  