-- ECB Keeps Rate at 1% as Economy Shrinks, Price Risks Grow
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-04-04T11:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ecb-keeps-rate-at-1-as-economy-shrinks-price-risks-grow.html
The  European Central Bank  left
 interest rates  unchanged as policy makers balance the threat of
inflation in  Germany  against the need to fight the sovereign
debt crisis.  ECB officials meeting in Frankfurt today kept the  benchmark
rate  at a record low of 1 percent, as predicted by all 57
economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . President Mario Draghi
holds a press conference at a 2:30 p.m.  While nations from  Greece  to Spain are battling recessions
and record unemployment, workers in Germany are winning some of
the biggest pay increases in 20 years, widening the gaps between
Europe’s largest economy and its euro-area peers. Draghi warned
in March of “upside risks” to inflation and started talking
about how to withdraw the ECB’s emergency measures, just months
after cutting rates and pumping more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3
trillion) of cheap cash into Europe’s banking system to stem the
sovereign debt crisis.  “Early signs of wage inflation and rising  house prices  in
Germany will make some hawkish Governing Council members
nervous,” said  Christian Schulz , senior economist at Berenberg
Bank in  London . Still, it’s too early to start removing support
for banks and “the overall weak economy easily warrants
continued low interest rates,” he said.  Recessions  The 17-nation euro economy will shrink 0.3 percent this
year, according to the European Commission, which projects
contractions in Italy, Spain, Belgium, Greece, Cyprus, the
Netherlands, Portugal and Slovenia. By contrast, Germany’s
economy is forecast to expand 0.6 percent.  “The ECB is in a dilemma,” said  Holger Sandte , chief
economist at WestLB Mellon Asset Management in Dusseldorf.
“It’s not an optimal currency area. The economy is terrible in
some parts and okay in others, and prices are diverging.”  House prices in  Spain  plunged 11.2 percent last year; in
Germany they rose 5.5 percent, the most since the country’s
post-reunification property boom in the early 1990s.  Bundesbank President Jens Weidmann was one of the first ECB
policy makers to start talking about an eventual exit from
stimulus measures, saying the emergency lending to banks entails
significant risks.  ‘Stability Culture’  Draghi, in an interview with Germany’s mass tabloid Bild
newspaper last month, said he shares Weidmann’s concerns and
“all members of the Governing Council have taken to heart
Germany’s stability culture.”  Tools the ECB could use to absorb liquidity include longer-
term deposits or the issuance of debt certificates, Christian Thimann, Draghi’s adviser, said in an article published last
week.  “Exit talks are in large part targeted at Germans and
other inflation hawks concerned about rising inflation and the
emergence of asset-price bubbles,” said  Marco Valli , chief
euro-area economist at UniCredit Global Research in Milan.
“They want to show they have the tools available to tackle
inflation, but they’re nowhere close to a starting the exit.”  While Draghi will probably affirm his view that the euro-
area economy has stabilized, contracting manufacturing output
suggests the recovery remains fragile.  At the same time, euro-area  inflation , driven by higher  oil
prices  and tax increases, will breach the ECB’s 2 percent  limit 
for a second straight year in 2012 before slowing to 1.6 percent
in 2013, according to ECB forecasts.  Price Pressure  Wage settlements in Germany may fuel price pressures.  With unemployment at a two-decade low and exports to
countries outside the euro area partially shielding the economy
from the debt crisis, German workers are asking for a bigger
slice of the pie.  IG Metall,  Europe ’s biggest labor union with about 3.6
million workers, is demanding 6.5 percent more pay.  Germany’s 2 million public service workers are set for a
6.3 percent raise over two years under an agreement reached with
the government, the Ver.di union said on March 31. That would be
the biggest increase negotiated by the union since 1992.  “The agreement will likely mark a turning point in wage
developments in Germany after years of wage restraint,” said
 Klaus Baader , an economist at Societe Generale SA in Hong Kong.  Some economists say rising German wages are part of a
rebalancing that has to take place within the euro zone.
Germany, which has long relied on exports for growth, needs to
spur household spending, while peripheral nations have to cut
wages to improve competitiveness and export performance.  “Draghi’s main message today will probably be that the ECB
has done its bit,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist
at Barclays in London. “One reason is that the ECB doesn’t
really have another big rabbit to pull out of its hat, the other
is that they really want to sit back and let governments get on
with fixing the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  