-- Economy Has Left Emergency Room, Roach Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-04-04T17:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/economy-has-left-emergency-room-roach-says-tom-keene.html
Federal Reserve forecasts that the
 U.S. economy  is “out of the emergency room” signal policy
makers should reduce easing to avoid creating another financial
bubble, according to  Yale University ’s  Stephen Roach .  “If the economy doesn’t need to be on life support, why
are we keeping all these steroids running into the patient?”
Roach, a former non-executive chairman for Morgan Stanley in
 Asia , said today in an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“There’s a huge inconsistency with what the Fed is saying and
what they’re doing. They’re saying the crisis is over.”  Treasuries and stock markets fell yesterday after the
release of the  Federal Open Market Committee ’s March 13 meeting
minutes showed the central bank is holding off on increasing
monetary accommodation unless the U.S. economic expansion
falters or prices rise at a rate slower than its 2 percent
target.  Fed policy makers in January forecast the economy would
grow 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent in 2012 and the  unemployment
rate  would end the year at 8.2 percent to 8.5 percent. By the
end of 2014, the FOMC expects a jobless rate of 6.7 percent to
7.6 percent, still above their goal for maximum employment of
5.2 percent to 6 percent.  The 10-year yield fell seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 2.23 percent at 12:56 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Yields rose 12 basis
points to 2.30 percent yesterday.  ‘Another Bubble’  “We’re sowing the seeds probably, with all this easy money
at a time when the economy is recovering, for potentially
another bubble,” Roach said. “When things are starting to look
better, you want to take your foot off the accelerator.”  The 2008 financial crisis, which sparked the worst
recession since the Great Depression, was set up by monetary
policy that kept borrowing costs too low for too long, Roach
said.  The U.S. central bank kept its  target rate  for overnight
bank lending at 1 percent for a year starting in June 2003. The
Fed lending rate has been zero to 0.25 percent since December
2008, following the bursting of the housing bubble and the
collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings on Sept. 15, 2008.  “They stayed easy for too long and that set us up for the
big crisis that brought us down, and the Fed’s in denial over
that to this very day,” Roach said. “If the recovery is as
sustainable as the Fed officials are arguing, the emergency is
over, and rates should start to rise. They should start to rise
on a regular basis, not a one off.”  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of bonds in two quantitative-
easing rounds from December 2008 until June 2011 to spur the
economy. In September it announced it would buy $400 billion of
longer-term U.S. securities through June while selling an equal
amount of shorter-term debt in its holdings to lower borrowing
costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  