-- Telecom Italia Considers Spinning Off Network, Bernaba
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-04-04T12:04:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/telecom-italia-considers-spinning-off-network-bernaba.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  is studying
whether to separate its fixed-access network, helping  Italy ’s
biggest phone company raise cash to pay down debt and avoid
cutting its dividend further.  A spin-off is “one of several studies” carried out,
Executive Chairman Franco Bernabe told  Il Sole 24 Ore , in
comments confirmed by Telecom Italia. Under the plan, Telecom
Italia would be “open to considering” a partnership with
state-owned lender Cassa Depositi e Prestiti SpA as it builds
out a high-speed Internet network, he was quoted as saying. The
company would be the first incumbent European operator to spin
off its network.  Telecom Italia in February cut its dividend payout for 2011
to lower debt to 27.5 billion euros ($36.2 billion) and retain
its  credit rating . The company, alongside other operators
including  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , has struggled in the Italian
market as the new government implements spending cuts and tax
increases.  It’s a “relatively easy solution to raise money,” Marco Greco, a Mediobanca Securities analyst, said in a note to
clients today. Previously, Bernabe “has always said the network
is strategic to Telecom Italia.”  Vodafone Chief Executive Officer  Vittorio Colao  said in
February that the company had offered to co-invest in fixed-line
networks, and had been turned down by rival operators. The
Italian market had formerly resisted open networks, he said.  Selling Stakes  By spinning off its network, Telecom Italia may create a
new company that would be financed by raising 4 billion euros
($5.28 billion) selling stakes to companies that may include
Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, according to  Il Sole 24 Ore , which
cited an internal company document. The network would be valued
at as much as 15 billion euros, according to the document.  The document only represents an internal analysis and is
not an operating plan, Telecom Italia Chief Operating Officer
Marco Patuano told reporters in Milan, according to  news agency 
Radiocor. The CEO doesn’t see the benefit of a separation, given
the current conditions, he was cited as saying.  Telecom Italia  climbed  1 percent to 88.1 euro cents at 2:02
p.m. in Milan trading.  Bernabe told the newspaper that current conditions don’t
allow implementation of the plan, “because of the regulatory
framework.” He didn’t elaborate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  