-- Helmut Newton’s Leggy Nudes March Through Grand Palais
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-04-04T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/helmut-newton-s-leggy-nudes-march-through-grand-palais-review.html
“Some people say photography is an
art. Mine is not. I’m a gun for hire.”  The motto at the entrance of the  Grand Palais  in Paris
reveals a lot about the photographer whom the current exhibition
is celebrating: Helmut Newton was a provocateur.  Although he worked for the glossiest fashion magazines in
the world, he liked to portray his models in the trashy style of
tabloids. They often seem caught unawares in a private moment by
an indiscreet paparazzo, far removed from the conventional poses
on the chic Avenue Montaigne or Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honore.  “I’m attracted to bad taste,” Newton said. “It’s much
more exciting than the cliches parading as good taste.”  It’s no surprise that he collected old mug shots.  Newton (1920-2004) was born Helmut Neustadter in Berlin. He
Anglicized his name after emigrating to  Australia  where he
served in the army during World War II. He later worked as a
portrait photographer in  Melbourne , specializing in weddings.  In 1957, he and his wife, the actress June Brunell, moved
to  Europe , first to  London , then to Paris where he found a well-
paid job with  Vogue . In 1981, when the Socialists came to power,
the couple settled in  Monte Carlo  for tax reasons.  Fashion Stars  Three years later, the  Musee d’Art Moderne de la Ville de
Paris  mounted a retrospective of the photographer, who by then
was as famous as  Yves Saint Laurent ,  Karl Lagerfeld  and the
other famous designers with whom he worked.  At the age of 83, he died in a car crash on Sunset
Boulevard.  Organized by Newton’s widow, the Grand Palais exhibition --
the first major show in Paris since his death -- gathers about
200 images, including some very large formats, all printed under
the photographer’s supervision.  Fashion, of course, is the show’s focal point. There are
plenty of examples of the satirical Newton touch: One model is
running away from a biplane -- like  Cary Grant  in Hitchcock’s
1959 film “North by Northwest.”  A diptych presents the same group of models twice -- nude
on the left, fully dressed on the right. The title “Sie
kommen” (Here They Come) could be interpreted as an ironic
allusion to the Prussian army.  Another symbol of Prussia, the spiked helmet, pops up in a
rape scene. Sadomasochistic scenarios were a Newton specialty:
He traveled with handcuffs and chains, though he insisted they
were for professional, not personal use.  Eager to Pose  Newton frequently was accused of misogyny, and he could be
demanding toward his models. Yet they came back, eager to pose
for him, as did celebrities.  From Salvador Dali to  Margaret Thatcher , Liz Taylor to
Claus von Bulow and Leni Riefenstahl to Paloma Picasso (with
monocle, echoing an Otto Dix painting) -- they all sat for him.  Jean-Marie Le Pen, the former leader of  France ’s extreme-
right Front National, is portrayed with his two Dobermans.
Recently asked by “Le Monde” newspaper whether the allusion to
an image of Hitler and his German shepherd bothered him, Le Pen
said: “Not at all. Lots of people pose with their dogs. And
lots of people see Hitler everywhere.”  The show at the Grand Palais, which is supported by HSBC
France SA and Linklaters LLP, runs through June 17.  Information:  http://www.rmngp.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 