-- Emerging Stocks in Deepest Slide in Month on Fed Concern
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-04-04T21:22:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/emerging-stocks-fall-for-first-day-in-four-honam-slides.html
Emerging-market stocks fell the most
in a month on concern the  Federal Reserve  may refrain from more
monetary stimulus and as lower demand for Spanish bonds revived
worries  Europe ’s debt crisis will harm global growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  fell 1.7 percent to
1,037.33 in New York, the steepest slide since March 6.
Materials and energy companies led the drop.  Vale SA (VALE5) , the
world’s largest iron ore producer, had its biggest two-day drop
in a month, and  Brazil ’s  Bovespa (IBOV)  Index fell to the lowest level
since Jan. 31. Coal producer  OAO Mechel (MTLR)  led declines on  Russia ’s
Micex Index.  Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI) , South Africa’s second-largest
gold producer, fell the most since November.  The Fed won’t impose more accommodative monetary policy
unless economic expansion falters or inflation quickens to more
than the 2 percent target, according to minutes from the March
13 meeting released yesterday. U.S. services industries, which
account for almost 90 percent of the economy, grew at a slower
pace in March, Institute for Supply Management data showed
today. Demand for Spanish  government bonds  dropped at an auction
and Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the country is “facing an
economic situation of extreme difficulty.”  “The markets were starting to price in both a better
economic outlook and policy easing, and you can’t have both,”
 Neil Shearing , chief emerging-markets economist at Capital
Economics Ltd. in  London , said by phone. “The fear amongst
investors is that  Spain  could now be the next domino to fall in
the euro crisis.”  ETF Falls  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has climbed 13 percent this
year, beating a 9.2 percent advance in the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of
developed nations. The gauge of developing-country shares is
 valued  at 10.6 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s multiple of 12.6.  The  IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund , the most-traded ETF to track developing-nation shares,
fell 1.8 percent to $42.51. The Chicago Board Options Exchange
 Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a gauge of options prices
on the fund and expectations of price swings, rose 4.2 percent
to 26.59.  Brazil’s Bovespa lost 1.2 percent to the weakest level
since Jan. 31, as  Vale  slid 1.8 percent. Mexico’s  IPC Index (MEXBOL) 
slumped 1.3 percent, retreating from a record high.  Industrias
Penoles SAB (PE&OLES*) , Mexico’s largest silver producer, led declines,
slipping 4 percent.  Russia, Poland  Russian stocks  dropped 2.4 percent on the ruble-denominated
Micex, their biggest retreat in a month.  Mechel (MTLR) , the country’s
largest producer of coal for steelmaking, slid 4.7 percent.  Poland’s  Wig 20 Index (WIG20)  declined 1.8 percent for a second day
of losses, as  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the country’s sole copper
mining company, fell 3.5 percent.  The FTSE/JSE All Share Index dropped 2.3 percent, the most
in six months, as  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , Africa’s biggest gold
producer, tumbled 4.2 percent and Gold Fields, the world’s
fourth-largest gold mining company, dropped 5 percent.  Markets in  Hong Kong , mainland  China  and  Taiwan  are shut
for holidays. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (HSCEI)  slid 1.5 percent, the
most since Dec. 19. Indonesia’s  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  fell 1.9
percent, its steepest loss since Nov. 21.  Most emerging-market currencies weakened against the
dollar, as the Turkish lira slipped 0.7 percent, while South
Africa’s rand lost 1 percent.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  increased seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 340 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  