-- Merkel Gunning for Germany as Luxury Rifles Draw Russians
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2012-04-05T05:47:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/merkel-gunning-for-germany-as-luxury-rifles-draw-russian-clients.html
For Merkel, happiness is a warm gun.  The rifle maker, with no relation to  Angela Merkel , hails
from the same former communist east as the German chancellor. It
sells arms that can carry the price tag of a house, yet are
resilient to recession. A hand-made rifle by Merkel Jagd- und
Sportwaffen GmbH, as the company is known by its full name, can
cost anything between 2,500 euros and 200,000 euros ($264,000).  “We sell lots of our most expensive guns in the U.S.,
where the demand for German firearms is for quality, not
quantity,” Marketing Director Oliver Schmider said at Merkel
headquarters in Suhl, Thuringia, about 3 hours south of Berlin.
Sales may rise 15 percent this year from 18 million euros in
2011, he predicted.  The marriage of utility and luxury has provided Merkel and
German competitors including  Blaser Jagdwaffen GmbH  and  J.P.
Sauer & Sohn GmbH  with a steady stream of rifle aficionados who
are largely unfettered by fiscal constraints. Merkel was
purchased by Abu Dhabi investment company Tawazun Holding in
2007 and has since pushed its global ambitions, with the U.S.
and  Russia  making up a fifth of total revenue today.  Seized by Communists  Founded in 1898, Merkel was seized by the communists after
World War II in what became East Germany. The reunified country
remains the biggest market for closely held Merkel and accounts
for 20 percent of sales, said Schmider. The company has 180
employees, a fraction of the 2,000 workers under communist rule
until 1990.  “With the fall of the Iron Curtain, Merkel was suddenly
exposed to competition,” Schmider said.  The company’s response was to develop a lower-cost line of
firearms starting at about 2,500 euros. These are about 70
percent machine-made and 30 percent handmade. Merkel’s high-end
weapons are about 70 percent hand-made and start at 6,000 euros.  Among the company’s latest innovation is the  Helix 
straight-pull bolt-action rifle for speedy reloading that allows
the rifle to be taken apart without tools for traveling. The gun
sells for about 2,700 euros in a simple configuration.  Bull Testicles  Still, extravagance is a common theme running through the
high-end clientele of German gun manufacturers. Some aristocrats
want their castle engraved on their rifle, Schmider said, adding
that gold inlay is increasingly in demand. One U.S. customer had
an Indian chief on one side, a cowboy on the other and a bald
eagle on the bottom, he said.  Tawazun, Merkel’s owner, has added other fire-arm assets to
its portfolio, including Caracal, a maker of pistols, as well as
the Caracal Shooting Club, that was the first commercial shooting
range in  Abu Dhabi .  Blaser, whose sales have boomed in Germany in recent years,
has followed through on a customer request to engrave a pair of
bull testicles on a rifle. Other off-piste initiatives to boost
the brand have included a cooperation with Jaguar Land Rover
Plc, for which Blaser designed a special edition of the rugged
Defender vehicle that’s limited to 60 units.  “Crisis? What crisis?” said Matthias Klotz, chief
executive officer of  J.P. Sauer . “It’s not just wealthy people
who buy our guns. Hunters, even if they don’t have much money,
still demand 100 percent quality. So they might compromise on a
stereo but will never do so with a rifle.”  Swastikas  Sauer, based in Isny in southern  Germany , exports almost 70
percent of its production, and sale rose 8 percent last year.
Founded in 1751, the company has provided rifles to monarchs
including Germany’s Kaiser Wilhelm II. Nazi Reichsmarschall and
Reich Master Hunter Hermann Goering also favored Sauer guns,
which featured inlaid swastikas during the  Third Reich .  Merkel has also attracted a varied following. The company
has provided rifles or components to King Juan Carlos of  Spain ,
former Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev and Dwight Eisenhower
when he was military governor of the U.S. Occupation Zone of
Germany in 1945. Goering also went deer-stalking with a Merkel.  And the Chancellor, Angela Merkel? Schmider laughed when
asked whether sharing the name sometimes prompts confusion.  “Only with Google searches,” he said. “We’re not related
and she’s never visited us. People sometimes think we’re
advertising for Frau Merkel’s re-election when we put our name
on caps.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  