-- EU Finance Ministers to Meet May 2 on Basel Implementation
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-04T13:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/eu-finance-ministers-to-meet-may-2-on-basel-implementation-1-.html
European Union finance ministers
will meet on May 2 in Brussels to hammer out a deal on  bank 
capital and liquidity rules drafted by the  Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision .  “We want to push this as much as possible,” said Preben
Aamann, a spokesman for  Denmark ’s EU presidency. Ambassadors
from the bloc’s 27 nations will hold a preliminary discussion on
April 18, he said by telephone in Brussels today.  Governments have clashed over proposals by  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services commissioner, to fix banks’ core-
capital requirements at 7 percent of their risk-weighted assets,
with limited exceptions for national regulators to set higher
thresholds. The U.K. and  Sweden  say Barnier’s plan would
unacceptably restrict national powers, while nations including
France and  Germany  support the commission’s approach.  The Basel committee agreed on the 7 percent requirement in
2010 as part of a set of rule changes in response to the
financial crisis that followed the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. The group has said that the agreement should be
seen as a minimum, with regulators free to impose tougher rules.  The committee brings together regulators from 27 countries,
including the U.S., U.K. and  China , to draft prudential
requirements for lenders.  Denmark has sought a compromise on the EU version of the
Basel rules, proposing that nations could be allowed to force
banks to hold up to 10 percent core capital.  The  latest Danish proposals , dated April 2, would require
national regulators to seek approval from the commission if they
want to raise requirements beyond the 10 percent limit.  The draft EU law needs approval from both national
governments and lawmakers in the European Parliament before it
can take effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  