-- EU Nations Oppose CO2-Permit Set-Aside in Energy Law
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-04-04T10:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/eu-nations-oppose-co2-permit-set-aside-in-energy-law.html
European Union nations are opposed
to putting a curb on carbon allowances in a new energy
efficiency law, according to a briefing document prepared
for  member states  before talks scheduled to start April 11.  The possibility of temporarily cutting the supply of
permits, backed by the European Parliament’s industry committee,
was excluded from the members’ preliminary version of the
legislation, according to a copy of the March 29 document
obtained by Bloomberg. Parliament and member nations are due to
start talks to resolve differences on the law next week.  The unwillingness of governments to include in the energy
directive a provision that would affect EU rules on emissions
trading may mean that the design and timing of a potential
proposal to withhold a number of carbon-dioxide permits will
depend on the European Commission, the EU regulatory arm.  Carbon allowances for December slumped to a record 6.05
euros ($7.96) a metric ton yesterday after preliminary EU data
indicated greenhouse gas discharges were less than the bloc’s
limit for a third consecutive year. Prices may fall further
without “clear progress” to create a set-aside, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  The contract lost 64 percent from a year ago on concern
that new energy savings measures in the law that the Parliament
and member states are debating will further erode demand for
permits to discharge  greenhouse gases .  ‘Recalibrating the System’  In a non-binding memorandum accompanying the draft energy
efficiency  directive  last year the commission said that
“appropriate measures need to be considered, including
recalibrating the emissions-trading system by setting aside”
allowances corresponding to the extra emission reductions
resulting from energy savings.  A proposal by the European Parliament to include a set-
aside in the energy efficiency law, adopted on Feb. 28, was
“not acceptable” to member states, according to the briefing
document, written after talks on the law among diplomats in
Brussels.  “While acknowledging that the Directive will impact and
reinforce action in other policy areas (e.g. renewable or
 climate change ), related EU instruments should not be amended
via this Directive,” the document stated.  The commission said yesterday it supported the option of
withholding permits as of 2013, when the next phase of the
 emissions trading  system starts and the bloc moves toward
auctioning allowances after giving them to companies for free.  Concrete Steps  “We stand by this idea of setting aside a number of
permits, but in terms of concrete steps that will follow the
preliminary idea we need to wait a bit until the debate on the
Energy Efficiency Directive is concluded and an inter-
institutional agreement is reached,” said Isaac Valero-Ladron,
climate spokesman for the commission in Brussels.  Such a set-aside could be gradually created from the pool
of permits to be auctioned to companies by member states in the
emissions program, also known as the ETS, and would be
conditional on approval from national governments.  The Parliament’s industry committee voted in February to
insert in the energy efficiency law a provision saying the
commission should put forward, “if appropriate,” measures that
“may include withholding of the necessary amount of
allowances” from auctions as early as next year. That was one
of more than 100 modifications to the law, which the Parliament
and member states are now set to discuss.  Any eventual permanent cancellation of permits at the end
of, or during, the 2013-2020 trading phase would require a
revision of the ETS law in a separate process.  EU environment ministers are set to discuss the need to
improve the bloc’s emissions trading system on April 19, during
an informal meeting in Horsens,  Denmark .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  