-- Europe’s Ratings Revenge Founders on Market Reality: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-04T09:47:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/europe-s-ratings-revenge-founders-on-market-reality-euro-credit.html
The European Union is retreating
from a vow to defang credit-rating companies as reforms prompted
by the 2008 crisis collide with the needs of bond investors.  “More than taking a sledgehammer to crack a nut,  Europe  is
using TNT,” said Jonathan Pitkanen, who helps oversee about $43
billion of fixed-income as head of credit research at
 Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd . in London. “Then the law of
unintended consequences kicks in and they have to back off.”  Finance ministers agreed last week to revisit plans to
oblige borrowers to rotate credit assessors every three years,
or six if a business hires more than one firm. The backtrack
comes as investors describe the changes as unworkable, citing
the risk of relying on grades from firms with insufficient
expertise or forgoing formal assessments.  The European Union has been seeking to rein in the raters
for almost four years, blaming  Standard & Poor’s ,  Moody’s
Investors Service (MCO) ,  Fitch Ratings  and smaller peers for ignoring
conflicts of interest that helped fuel the 2008 financial
crisis. While the authorities have set up a regulatory agency,
outlawed some abuses, forced companies to register and to
reassign analysts regularly, attempts to crack down further are
foundering on concern the industry may be rendered unviable.  Yields on  French 10-year bonds  rose 11 basis points to 3.24
percent on Dec. 6, the day after S&P said it might downgrade the
nation. They dropped four basis points to 3.03 percent on Jan.
16, the first business day after S&P stripped the nation of its
AAA grade.  Valuing the Valuers  Stock prices suggest investors are relaxed about increased
regulation crimping profits. Shares of New York-based Moody’s
have gained more than 23 percent since Nov. 15, when the
European Commission’s Financial Services Commissioner  Michel Barnier  proposed a suite of rules. Those of  McGraw-Hill Inc. (MHP) ,
S&P’s parent, are up 11.5 percent in that period. Fitch is a
unit of  Fimalac (FIM)  SA in Paris, whose shares have lost 2 percent.  Investors demand a yield premium of 246 basis points more
than benchmark Treasuries to hold Moody’s $500 million of BBB+
rated 5.5 percent bonds due 2020. That compares with an average
spread of 243 basis points shown by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s index of similarly rated bonds. The spread on McGraw-
Hill’s $400 million of 5.9 percent notes maturing in 2017 is 156
basis points, in line with the 168 basis-point average on
Merrill’s U.S. Corporates, A Rated Index.  Functioning Markets  Moody’s “remains hopeful” that a revised regulatory
framework “will not include features that would undermine the
functioning of European credit markets and access to credit,”
said Daniel Piels, a spokesman for Moody’s in London.  Regulatory efforts since the financial crisis have come in
three waves, starting in November 2008. The first set out rules
of conduct and governance to create a formal framework for
raters’ activities.  The second set of proposals came from the EC in June 2010
as  Greece  suffered a series of downgrades. It dumped self-
regulation and placed the European Securities and Markets
Authority in charge of supervising the industry across the 27-
nation region. The third stage was presented in November.  The aim of the changes is to reduce “over-reliance,”
boost competition and bolster the independence of ratings firms
from the companies they assess, according to Barnier.  Bond Lifecycle  His focus on rotation may make life harder for bondholders.
A seven-year bond, for example, would start out rated by two
firms, one of which would have to drop out after three years.
For an issuer with grades split between A- and BBB+, say, the
firm that gets its mandate renewed after the first three years
may not be the one that assigns the BBB+ grade, said Pitkanen at
Threadneedle.  “This would be vindictive, aimed at undermining the
agencies’ business model,” said Roger Doig, an analyst at
Schroders Plc in  London , which manages about $58 billion in
fixed-income assets. “It would raise questions about their
ability to staff themselves, about their ability to cover
issuers and about maintaining coverage.”  The proposals are “impractical and remove the continuity
of experience,” the European Association of Corporate
Treasurers  said  in a statement. Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman
for Barnier, declined to comment.  Temporary Ban  Ratings are “deeply embedded” in financial markets and in
the regulations that govern those markets, said Doig.
Definitions of creditworthiness help define what money managers
can and can’t do with their clients’ funds, delineate the
boundary between investment-grade and high-yield debt, and guide
the cost of repurchase agreements banks use to borrow from
central banks, he said.  Barnier was defeated on his proposal that ESMA, which has
regulated the industry since July, should have the power to
temporarily ban sovereign grades for countries negotiating
international bailouts. He also failed win backing from his EC
colleagues for a temporary ban on mergers and acquisitions by
the largest ratings firms.  Ideas that did make it into the draft law include giving
investors the right to sue if they lose money because of gross
negligence or misconduct, putting the burden of proof on the
assessor.  Inhibiting Business  Raters would become more conservative, less willing to
assay smaller companies, and quicker to react when an issuer’s
circumstances change, according to a February discussion paper
from BlackRock Inc., the world’s largest money manager. It would
also cause “irreparable harm to the European securitization
markets,” hurting European banks and constricting the flow of
credit, according to the paper.  There would be restrictions on the time of day assessments
of government creditworthiness could be published, and more
details would have to be provided on the rationale behind a
sovereign downgrade. Supplying full details of methodologies
would allow copying by imitators.  One aspect of Barnier’s proposals that does have support
from the industry is his plan to remove references to credit
grades from banking and market regulations.  S&P said in January that it backed an end to “mechanistic
reliance on ratings” and supported “requiring investors to
conduct their own analysis of credit risk rather than relying
solely on ratings.”  Mark Tierney , a spokesman for S&P in
London, declined to comment.  Fitch “is fully committed to compliance” and understands
“the need for continuous improvement,” Mark Morley, a
spokesman in London, said in an e-mail.  “It’s a costly venture to set up a rating agency in any
case,” said  Gary Jenkins , director of Swordfish Research Ltd.
“They’re trying to encourage new entrants at the same time
they’re increasing costs with regulation, opening the business
to potentially crippling litigation and maybe having their
models stolen. The lesson coming out of Brussels is that they
want to punish someone.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Gilbert  at 
 magilbert@bloomberg.net  