-- Euro Weakens on Concern Debt Crisis Is Spreading
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-04-05T21:18:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/euro-trades-near-3-week-low-before-german-industrial-production.html
The euro fell to a three-week low
against the dollar as Spanish and Italian bonds slumped and
borrowing costs increased at a French auction, adding to concern
the region’s debt crisis is spreading.  The 17-nation currency dropped to a three-week low versus
the yen as  Spain ’s 10-year bond yields increased to the biggest
spread compared with German bunds since November amid investor
concern that Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  may require
international aid. The  Swiss National Bank  said it won’t allow
the franc to go beyond 1.20 per euro after the currency rose
past that level for the first time since the ceiling was put in
place in September.  “We’ve certainly seen some tensions coming back,
especially concerning Spain,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency
strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “It’s definitely been more of a risk-off day and
currencies suggest that the yen and the dollar are the best
performing G-10 currencies.”  The euro fell 0.6 percent to $1.3066 at 5:14 p.m. in  New
York , touching the weakest level since March 15. The shared
currency slid 0.7 percent to 107.61 yen. It earlier declined to
106.89, the lowest since March 8.  Euro Trade  The euro has declined 1.2 percent in the past week, the
worst performance among the 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar
appreciated 1.1 percent, and the yen gained 1.8 percent.  “It reflects a growing unease in Europe over Spain’s
finances, and that’s a good part of the euro weakness,”  Thomas Molloy , chief dealer at FX Solutions LLC, an online currency-
trading company in Saddle River,  New Jersey , said in a telephone
interview. “There’s definitely some concerns starting to come
to the fore in Europe, specifically about Spain.”  The euro may decline as much as 4 percent to a three-month
low against the dollar should it breach major support levels,
Commerzbank AG said, citing technical patterns.  The euro “has reached the short-term support line at
$1.3136,”  Karen Jones , head of fixed-income, commodity and
currency technical analysis in London, wrote in an e-mailed
report today. “Failure here should be enough to refocus
attention onto the $1.3004 recent low and then $1.2974/54.”  Canada Jobs  Canada added the most jobs since 2008 last month, a gain
that was more than seven times greater than economists forecast
and dominated by full-time positions. The Canadian currency
climbed as much as 0.6 percent and traded at 99.31 cents per
 U.S. dollar .  “We had a huge blowout Canadian jobless number,” Molloy
said. “There’s the possibility of a blowup number to the upside
on the nonfarm payrolls tomorrow.”  Claims for U.S. unemployment benefits dropped last week to
the lowest level in four years, adding to recent reports showing
signs of health in the economy, the Labor Department reported
today in  Washington . Tomorrow’s report from the Labor Department
on total payrolls, which includes government workers, is
projected to show a gain of 205,000 in March, according to a
median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against those of six major trading
partners, rose 0.3 percent to 80.052, reaching the highest level
since March 16.  Spain’s 10-year yields increased to 400 basis points, or
4.0 percentage points, more than similar-maturity bunds after
demand declined at a Spanish debt sale yesterday. Italy’s 10-
year yield increased 12 basis points to 5.48 percent.  French Bonds  France auctioned 4.32 billion euros of 10-year debt today
at an average yield of 2.98 percent, up from 2.91 percent at the
previous offering on March 1. Borrowing costs for five-year and
15-year debt also increased.  “The Spanish auction showed the problem in the euro area
is not going away any time soon, and there’s continued pressure
of flows going from  Europe  into  Switzerland ,” said Peter Rosenstreich, a Geneva-based chief currency analyst at
Swissquote Bank SA.  The franc climbed to as strong as 1.19995 per euro before
trading 0.1 percent higher at 1.20231. The Swiss currency
weakened 0.4 percent to 91.98 centimes per dollar.  The Swiss central bank set a limit of 1.20 francs per euro
on Sept. 6 to protect exports after investors turned to the
nation’s currency as a haven from Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis. The SNB won’t allow the franc to rise above the ceiling
and is ready to buy foreign currencies in unlimited quantities,
spokesman Walter Meier said by telephone today.  Pound Rise  The pound strengthened for a second day versus the euro as
the  Bank of England  left its bond-purchase target unchanged at
325 billion pounds ($515 billion) and its policy rate at 0.5
percent, as anticipated by Bloomberg surveys of economists.  “We have had very strong data coming out of the U.K. this
week,” said Audrey Childe-Freeman, global head of currency
strategy at JPMorgan Private Bank in  London . “With the news
that we’ve had out of the U.K. in the past few weeks, there is
much less of a case for adding stimulus and at the margin that
is supportive for sterling.”  The pound gained 0.2 percent to 82.54 pence versus the euro
after rising to 82.38 pence, the strongest since Jan. 9.
Sterling dropped 0.4 percent to $1.5828.  Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda’s nominee to the  Bank of
Japan  board was rejected by the upper house of parliament in a
victory for lawmakers pressing for more monetary easing to spur
growth and end deflation. BNP Paribas SA economist  Ryutaro Kono 
was blocked by a vote of 127 to 111 in the house, where the
ruling  Democratic Party  of  Japan  is a minority.  The yen added 0.1 percent to 82.37 per dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  