-- European Bank Stress Tests Need Rethink, Elderfield Says
-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-04-04T16:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/european-bank-stress-tests-need-rethink-elderfield-says.html
Twenty percent of  Europe ’s biggest
banks would have failed to meet global capital standards, known
as Basel III, as of June 2011, the  European Banking Authority 
said in an impact assessment of the planned rules.  About a fifth of the 48 largest banks in the study would
have had a core tier 1 capital ratio below 4.5 percent, the
absolute minimum allowed under Basel III guidelines, the EBA
said in a report published on its website today. Half of those
would have needed to raise a combined 242 billion euros ($318
billion) to reach a 7 percent ratio, the minimum for
internationally active banks, according to the report, based on
June data.  “Given these results, a significant effort by banks to
fulfill the risk-based  capital requirements  is expected,” the
EBA, the region’s top banking regulator, said.  Global regulators at the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  have clashed with banks over the severity of the
overhaul of capital and liquidity rules, known as Basel III,
that was designed to prevent a rerun of the crisis that cascaded
across financial markets after the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Costs ‘Underestimated’  “The authorities have underestimated the cost and
difficulty for the banks in meeting the higher Basel III
requirements,” Patricia Jackson, head of prudential advisory at
Ernst & Young LLP in London, said in an e-mail.  “The 7 percent quoted by the EBA is only part of the
story,” she said, as “ large systemic banks ” are required by
the Basel rules to hold additional capital. “Some banks are
targeting 12 percent or even higher” to make a buffer before
they breach their requirements, Jackson said.  The Basel group agreed in 2010 to more than triple the core
capital that lenders must hold, as well to make them hold
minimum stocks of easy-to-sell assets. Core tier 1 capital is a
measure of high-quality, loss-absorbing, reserves that banks
have to hold against risky assets. The rules are scheduled to be
phased in by 2019.  Banks plan to raise about 98 billion euros in new capital
by the end of June this year to meet the demands of an EBA
exercise to protect against the region’s sovereign-debt crisis,
the regulator said in February.  “The situation has changed a lot” since June last year,
said  Karel Lannoo , chief executive officer of the Centre for
European Policy Studies, a Brussels-based research institute.
One major change is the  European Central Bank ’s provision of
more than a trillion euros of three-year low-interest loans to
lenders, Lannoo said in a phone interview.  Liquidity Shortfall  The banks surveyed by the EBA collectively have a shortfall
of approximately 1.2 trillion euros in the easy-to-sell assets
they need to meet the Basel rule, known as a liquidity coverage
ratio, or LCR.  The Basel measures also include another liquidity rule,
known as a net stable funding ratio or NSFR, which would force
banks to back long term lending with sources, such as term
deposits, that are unlikely to dry up in a crisis.  Lenders had a shortfall in June of about 1.9 trillion euros
in the stable funds needed to comply with the requirement, the
EBA said.  The NSFR is still a “big problem for a lot of banks,”
Lannoo said.  The EBA studied 158 banks for the Basel III impact
assessment. Of this total, one bank didn’t offer enough data to
be measured against the LCR benchmark. Two lenders didn’t
provide enough information on their NSFR level.  European Union and Basel regulators are preparing changes
to the liquidity rules to prevent unintended consequences.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  