-- Euro-Region Services, Manufacturing Contract for Second Month
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-04-04T08:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/euro-region-services-manufacturing-contract-for-second-month.html
Euro-area services and manufacturing
output contracted for a second month in March, adding to signs
that the economy continued to shrink in the first quarter.  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in both industries dropped to 49.1 from 49.3 in
February, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s above
an initial estimate of 48.7 on March 22. A reading below 50
indicates contraction.  Rising energy costs are sapping consumers’ purchasing power
just as global demand falters and governments across the region
cut spending to plug their budget gaps. With economies from
Ireland to  Spain  in recession and European confidence in the
economic outlook weakening in March, today’s indicator
contributes to signs that companies may continue to curb output
and hiring.  The euro-region economy probably “suffered further
contraction in the first quarter of 2012,” said  Howard Archer ,
chief European economist at IHS Global Insight in  London . “This
would put the euro zone back into recession.  A gauge of euro-region  manufacturing  fell to 47.7 in March
from 49 in February, Markit said earlier this week. A measure of
services rose to 49.2 from 48.8.  ‘No Less Challenging’  The euro-region economy may shrink 0.3 percent this year
before returning to growth in 2013, the European Commission said
on Feb. 23. The economies of  Belgium , Greece, Spain, Italy,
Cyprus, the Netherlands and Portugal are all seen contracting in
2012, according to the Brussels-based commission.  Adding to signs of a deepening slump, euro-region
 unemployment  jumped to 10.8 percent in February, the highest in
more than 14 years, and industrial orders dropped the most in
four months in January. Retail sales probably fell in February,
according to a Bloomberg News survey. The European Union’s
statistics office will report that release at 11 a.m. today.  Michael Diekmann, chief executive officer at  Allianz SE (ALV) ,
 Europe ’s largest insurer, wrote in a letter to shareholders
published on March 23 that he expects 2012 to be “no less
challenging” than last year. Schaeffler AG, the world’s second-
biggest maker of roller bearings, last month forecast slower
sales growth in 2012 as European markets weaken.  “The euro-area economy is not likely to be recording
stabilization in gross domestic product until at least the
middle of the year,”  Julian Callow , head of international
economics at Barclays Capital, said in an e-mailed note.  The  European Central Bank , which injected more than 1
trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the system to help fight the
turmoil, will probably keep its benchmark  interest rate  at 1
percent, matching a record low, when council members meet today,
according to a Bloomberg survey. President Mario Draghi said
last month he sees “signs of stabilization” in the euro area.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  