-- European Stocks Fall on Spain Bonds, Fed Stimulus Stance
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-04-04T16:13:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/european-stock-futures-fall-as-fed-damps-stimulus-hopes.html
European stocks fell the most in
four weeks after Spain sold fewer bonds than its maximum target
and the  Federal Reserve  damped expectations of more monetary
stimulus for the U.S.  Volvo AB (VOLVB)  tumbled 4.8 percent after ACT Research said North
American preliminary truck orders in March were less than
expected. Carmakers declined, with Peugeot SA and  Renault SA (RNO) 
dropping at least 4 percent each, after a report showed U.S.
sales of light vehicles rose less than forecast.  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc  lost 2.9 percent after people familiar with
the matter said the lender canceled a bond sale.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index retreated 2.1 percent to 258.76
at the close of trading, the biggest decline since March 6. The
number of shares changing hands on the benchmark index was 25
percent more than the average over 30 days, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  “Clearly  Spain  is starting to have some problems of
refinancing; we may need some more bailouts in Europe --
possibly one for Spain,” said Jean Borjeix, a strategist at
Paris-based Platinium Gestion, which helps oversee about $170
million. “I believe we have reached a top in the market in the
short term. Today, markets have included in their thinking that
it will be difficult for Europe.”  Spanish Auction  Spain sold 2.6 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of bonds, near
the minimum target, and borrowing costs rose in its first
auction since the country said public debt will surge to a
record this year. The Treasury had set a range of 2.5 billion
euros to 3.5 billion euros for the sale.  The Fed is holding off on increasing monetary accommodation
unless U.S. economic growth falters or prices rise at a rate
slower than its 2 percent target, minutes released yesterday
from a March 13 policy meeting showed.  Minutes from the meeting “were not encouraging if you are
a bull who’s hoping to hear that the door is still open for
further possible stimulus,” said Simon Denham, managing
director of Capital Spreads in London. “After each rally people
start to get excited that we could push higher and break through
to new highs, but then the markets come up against resistance
and fail to follow through.”  “A couple of members indicated that the initiation of
additional stimulus could become necessary if the economy lost
momentum or if inflation seemed likely to remain below” 2
percent, according to the minutes.  ECB Holds  The  European (SXXP)  Central Bank left its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at a record low of 1 percent. The euro-area’s economic
outlook remains subject to “downside risks,” President  Mario Draghi  said at a press conference in  Frankfurt . “The remaining
tensions in euro area sovereign-debt markets are expected to
dampen economic momentum.”  National benchmark indexes fell in all of the 18 western
European markets, led by Sweden’s OMX 30 Index, which tumbled
3.6 percent.  France ’s CAC 40 Index dropped 2.7 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index slipped 2.3 percent and  Germany ’s DAX
Index retreated 2.8 percent.  The VStoxx Index, which measures the cost of options on the
Euro Stoxx 50 Index, surged 16 percent, the largest gain since
March 6.  Euro-area retail sales declined 0.1 percent from January,
when they rose a revised 1.1 percent, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
forecast a drop of 0.2 percent in a Bloomberg News survey.  Euro-Area PMI  Euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted for
a second month in March. A composite index based on a survey of
purchasing managers in both industries dropped to 49.1 from 49.3
in February, London-based Markit Economics said today. That’s
above an initial estimate of 48.7 on March 22. A reading below
50 indicates contraction.  In Germany,  factory orders  rose 0.3 percent in February,
the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. That’s less than the
1.5 percent-increase predicted by economists in a Bloomberg News
survey.  Volvo lost 4.8 percent to 93.65 kronor after ACT Research
said preliminary Class 8 truck orders in  North America  for March
were 20,000 units, the second consecutive month that orders came
in “below expectations.”  Shares fell in all 19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600,
with an index of technology companies the  worst performer .  U.S. sales of cars and light trucks rose to a 14.4 million
seasonally adjusted annual rate, falling short of the 14.5
million median estimate of 16 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Peugeot SA (UG)  plunged 5.8 percent to 10.77 euros, Renault SA
slipped 4.5 percent to 37.26 euros, and  Porsche SE (PAH3)  retreated 2.4
percent to 43.46 euros.  RBS Falls  RBS slid 2.9 percent to 26.10 pence as three people briefed
on the matter said the lender pulled a $207 million sale of
bonds backed by its own derivative trades in February. Investors
scarred by losses on exotic debt balked at the complexity of the
deal, the people said.  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  slipped 5.2 percent to 11.31 euros
after Les Echos said without citing anyone that the company may
decide today to take sole control of Coriscan ferry services
operator Societe Nationale Maritime Corse Mediterranee.  Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc (HIK)  lost 3.4 percent to 659 pence
after  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  and Pfizer Inc. sued the company for
planning to sell an injectable blood-clot treatment, saying it
infringes a patent licensed by Glaxo for argatroban.  Logica Plc (LOG)  tumbled 7.3 percent to 91.55 pence after the
Anglo-Dutch computer services provider said Seamus Keating, the
head of its Netherlands unit, resigned.  BTG Plc (BGC)  gained 2.6 percent to 347.10 pence after the
company said sales for the year ended March 31 would reach as
much as 195 million pounds ($309 million), more than previously
forecast, because of higher-than-expected royalties from two
drugs.  Ferrovial SA (FER) , Spain’s largest builder by market value,
added 2.2 percent to 8.41 euros after Bank of America reiterated
its buy recommendation on the shares and said Spain’s new tax
rules won’t hurt the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in  London  at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  