-- Teva Sues Synthon Over Generic Multiple Sclerosis Drug
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-04-04T18:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/teva-sues-synthon-over-generic-multiple-sclerosis-drug.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
sued Synthon BV for infringing seven patents in planning to sell
a generic version of the multiple sclerosis drug Copaxone before
Teva’s patents expire.  Teva, based in Petach Tikva, Israel, said it licensed the
patents from Yeda Research & Development Co., according to the
lawsuit filed yesterday in federal court in New York.  Copaxone, used to reduce the frequency of relapses in
multiple sclerosis patients, generated  sales  of $3.9 billion in
2011. Synthon filed an application with the U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  seeking approval of a generic version of the
drug, according to the complaint.  “Defendants plan to begin manufacturing, marketing,
selling, offering to sell and/or importing Synthon’s generic
glatiramer acetate product soon after FDA approval,” Teva said
in the complaint. “Such conduct will constitute direct
infringement.”  Closely held Synthon, based in Nijmegen,  Netherlands , filed
a document with the FDA stating that Teva’s patent claims are
invalid or unenforceable and that Synthon’s drug wouldn’t
infringe them, Teva said.  Fabienne Douven, a Synthon spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that the company would fight the suit.  ‘Affordable and Accessible’  “We are committed to developing a generic alternative to
Copaxone, to make this RRMS treatment, with a current high cost
of around $40,000 per year for U.S. patients, more affordable
and accessible,” she said, referring to relapsing-remitting
multiple sclerosis.  Teva has also sued Sandoz AG and other drug companies over
Copaxone.  Yeda Research, based in Rehovot, Israel, markets and
licenses developments from the laboratories at the Weizman
Institute of Science, according to the complaint.  The case is Teva Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. v. Synthon
Pharmaceuticals Inc., 12-2556, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  