-- Ex-Con Man Says JOBS Law Makes Guys Like Him Rich
-- B y   S u s a n   A n t i l l a
-- 2012-04-04T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ex-con-man-says-jobs-law-makes-guys-like-him-rich.html
Mark L. Morze knows a good
investment opportunity when he sees one, but he hasn’t pursued
his fortunes quite the way the rest of us have. Morze, 61, hung
his hat for 4 1/2 years at federal prisons in Lompoc and Boron,
California, after pleading guilty to two counts of fraud for
cooking the books at the infamous carpet-cleaning company  ZZZZ
Best (ZBSTQ)  in the 1980s.  He says he’s baffled that President  Barack Obama  plans to
sign a  law  today that amounts to an open invitation for
fraud. “I wish legislators would consult with people like me
before they write something like this,” he says, sounding dead
serious about the offer. “I could tell them, ‘I know what your
intent was with this wording, but we can get around it so
easily, it cracks me up.”’  I’m sure the last thing U.S. lawmakers were looking for in
their zealous bipartisan push for the Jumpstart Our Business
Startups (JOBS) Act was the inconvenient feedback of a seasoned
investment fraudster -- albeit one who says he’s rehabilitated
and now lectures on the techniques scammers use. Though the JOBS
Act was packaged as a plan to streamline rules to help small
companies crank out jobs, even its cheerleaders have come up
with scant evidence the law will boost employment much, if at
all. In an election year when pragmatic politicians are laboring
to come off as allies of deep-pocketed business donors, the JOBS
Act is a slapdash attempt at  securities-law  deregulation, plain
and simple.  Discovering Gems  The new law has 22 pages of gems that include new ways for
securities analysts to tout their firms’ public offerings, and
cool opportunities to avoid rules that force companies to supply
audited financial statements. In the end, though, the law that
Morze tags as having “real potential for abuse” boils down to
two features that don’t bode well for small investors: It lets a
lot of companies reveal less about themselves when they sell
stock, and, for the first time, it lets companies flog their
shares on the Internet.  The Securities and Exchange Commission still has to figure
out how the new JOBS rules will read, which just means the
unsightly lobbying to diminish investor protection hasn’t yet
ended.  There is a lot to dislike about the law, and we will all
learn soon enough which ill-advised provisions in the JOBS Act
have done the most harm to smaller investors. For the moment,
though, the law’s approval of something called “crowdfunding”
looks like the most toxic of all.  I wrote about crowdfunding this time last year, having
noticed that celebrity  Whoopi Goldberg  had promoted the idea on
her Facebook page, where she continued to plug crowdfunding as
recently as last month. Crowdfunding is a way to raise money, as
tech types put it, “from the crowd” on the Internet. It became
popular when musicians and other artists began using it to
solicit online donations for underwriting music tours and films.  Crowdfunding comes with some heart-warming benefits.
Families have crowdfunded to raise money for a loved one’s
expensive medical procedure, for example. But it was only a
matter of time before sharp-eyed investment types spotted the
benign Internet fund-raising technique as a way to sell shares
to the public.  There was a hitch, though. They had to find a way around
those irritating SEC rules that force you to slog through
extensive registration requirements. Now that the hurdle has
been removed by the JOBS Act, companies will be able to peddle
as much as $1 million in shares a year that investors can access
with a click on their shiny new iPad 3s.  No Scams Shortage  Even before JOBS came along, we were at little risk of
running out of financial scams to worry about. At the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation in  Washington , Unit Chief for Financial
Crimes Aaron Seres says investors continue to get fleeced by
boiler-room operators who hype shares of microcap companies, and
that’s without the viral fraud possibilities that Internet IPOs
would add. His fear is that unsophisticated investors will be
lured into online scams and learn too late, as Seres puts it,
that “Lo and behold, there’s no business in the first place.”  It will take months for the SEC to get those new rules in
place, but Morze figures that the sleaze set is already doing
prep work to line up refuse to sell on the new crowdfunding
sites, which are known as portals.  “My guess is they’re setting up dummy companies,” he
says, speculating that crowdfunding will appeal to “small
investors who are a little intimidated by bigger marketplaces.”  Investors with annual income or net worth of less than
$100,000 will be allowed to invest as much as $2,000 a year in a
company that offers shares via crowdfunding. People with net
worth or income of more than $100,000 can invest as much as 10
percent of their annual income or net worth, up to $100,000.  From what I can tell, crowdfunding’s supporters mostly are
well-meaning boosters of entrepreneurialism who simply don’t
have much understanding of how a swindler’s mind works. They
have suggested fraud-thwarting measures such as a self-
regulatory organization to keep things honest, and there is
nothing wrong with trying that, though SROs have been no cure
for the fraud we already have in the markets.  Fans of the idea have also found solace that when an
entrepreneur makes a claim online about his or her company,
readers can signal that the assertion is sound by pushing the
“ like ” button. Unexplained in all this is why we wouldn’t
expect that some sleazy stock promoter couldn’t arrange for his
cronies to be gathered in an Internet cafe pushing the same
button over and over again on some worthless fraud.  The JOBS regulatory easing coincides with a soaring
caseload for law enforcers. The  FBI  had a record 726 pending
corporate-fraud investigations in the fiscal year ended Sept.
30. It had 1,800 pending commodities and securities-fraud
investigations for the same period, also a record.  Discouraging Investors  History suggests that when you strip away regulators’
authority, you set the stage for more fraud and a spike in the
number of investors who want nothing to do with financial
markets. After Congress passed the 1996 National Securities
Markets Improvement Act -- what’s with these titles that say the
opposite of their intent? -- state regulators shifted from
stopping fraud before it happened to mopping up the mess after
investors had been bilked. Joseph Borg, the securities
commissioner in  Alabama , says investors have suffered “billions
of dollars of losses” since that law stripped state regulators
of their ability to vet private deals known as Regulation D 506
offerings.  “We used to call them up and ask questions about this or
that or the other thing, and we’d never hear from them again --
they’d just go away,” says Borg, referring to the shady
characters who tried to sell garbage under the Regulation D
exemptions from full securities-law registration. Today, Borg
and his colleagues in other states usually settle for filing
enforcement actions against Reg D crooks after the money is
gone. State regulators have brought 580 enforcement actions
against violators of Reg D’s exemption over the past three
years.  The JOBS Act similarly  denies  states any say over
crowdfunding offerings, but does honor them with the booby prize
of having the authority to bring fraud charges.  And who might be the victims in the wacky new world of
securities crowdfunding? Maybe not who you think.  The quest for financial literacy among smaller investors is
a laudable goal pursued by consumer advocates in recent years,
but it turns out that knowing the basics doesn’t mean you have
what it takes to ward off investment criminals. Anthony
Pratkanis, a professor of psychology at the University of
 California  in  Santa Cruz , told me he worked on a project where
researchers got their hands on real-life tapes of crooks
pitching victims on the telephone.  Perhaps it isn’t a surprise that  victims  often had unusual
stress in their lives - divorce, job loss, or other difficulties
-- that made them more vulnerable. The crooks would “tailor the
investment advice to whatever was needed,” Pratkanis said.  Money Losers  But Pratkanis said he didn’t expect to discover this
attribute in many of the investors who lost: they tended to
score highest on a quiz of eight basic questions about
investing, which signaled to the research team that financial
literacy offered little protection. Equally surprising was that
victims were more likely to be male, married, wealthy and
educated.  John Lawlor, a  Long Island , New York-based lawyer who has
practiced securities law for 27 years, told me the target of
choice for scamsters who peddle worthless private securities
over the telephone is the same group that the hapless JOBS law
says it is trying to help: small businesses.  “It’s always small-business owners, usually outside of
major metropolitan areas,” he said. “That’s who is on the
cold-calling lists.” Regulators figure the same bad operators
who scam over the phone will be exploiting the new online
opportunities, too.  Morze has a good idea, JOBS law or no JOBS law. When
someone gets caught, make it hurt, he says. “Prison really
helps deter white-collar guys,” he said. Let’s hope lawmakers
and regulators hear that.  ( Susan Antilla , who has written about  Wall Street  and
business for three decades and is the author of “Tales From the
Boom-Boom Room,” a book about sexual harassment at financial
companies, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today's highlights: The View editors on austerity in  Spain 
and the Muslim Brotherhood's political rise;  Ezra Klein  on
worrying about the deficit;  Caroline Baum  on scapegoating  oil
companies ;  Jonathan Weil  on Groupon's IPO; and Rowan Jacobsen
on atrocities in Myanmar.   To contact the writer of this article:
Susan Antilla at 
 santilla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at  jgreiff@bloomberg.net  