-- Ex-Massachusetts State Treasurer Cahill Pleads Not Guilty
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-04-04T16:05:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ex-massachusetts-state-treasurer-cahill-pleads-not-guilty.html
Ex- Massachusetts  Treasurer Timothy Cahill pleaded not guilty to charges that he improperly used
state lottery advertising funds to promote his unsuccessful run
for governor in 2010.  Cahill, 53, was indicted April 2 for violating state ethics
law, procurement fraud and conspiracy for planning to spend
$1.5 million of public money to benefit his candidacy. He
entered the plea today in Suffolk Superior Court in Boston.  Magistrate  Gary Wilson  released Cahill on personal
recognizance and set a trial for Sept. 24 after the defense
lawyer, E.  Peter Parker , said he wanted a trial “as soon as
possible.”  Cahill as state treasurer gave the go-ahead to use
75 percent of the lottery’s advertising budget for television
and radio spots promoting his flagging campaign, Massachusetts
Attorney General  Martha Coakley  said when she announced the
charges at an April 2 press conference.  Coakley said documents showed coordination between Cahill’s
independent campaign for governor and the lottery. Without
naming him, the ads called the lottery “consistently well-
managed.” Cahill’s effectiveness in running the lottery and
allocating ticket revenue was one of his key campaign points,
she said.  Parker accused Coakley of overreaching by criminalizing
conduct acceptable under campaign finance laws.  ‘Novel Legal Theory’  “We stand ready to put the attorney general’s novel legal
theory to the test and clear Tim Cahill’s name and reputation,”
the attorney told reporters after the hearing.  Parker said in a statement April 2 that his client “made
the right choice” on the lottery commercials because the
 Republican Governors Association  had run ads that undermined
public confidence in the lottery.  “I understood the risks associated with running the ads,”
Cahill said, reading a statement to reporters after the
arraignment. “As a candidate for governor, I could be
criticized. However, what I believed then and what I believe now
is the decision to run those ads was in the best interest of the
lottery.”  Cahill, facing a bank of microphones, apologized for
reading a statement instead of talking off the cuff, saying he
was out of practice in public speaking.  Cahill lost the race to incumbent Democrat  Deval Patrick .  Also indicted were Scott Campbell, 41, Cahill’s former
campaign manager, and Alfred Grazioso, 57, the former chief of
staff of the lottery. They pleaded not guilty.  Wilson ruled that prosecutors could release a seven-page
statement of the case after lawyers for Campbell and Cahill
objected because of the publicity it would generate.  “I don’t think there’s anything in there that isn’t
already out in the public purview,” the magistrate said.  The case is Commonwealth v. Cahill, SUCR2012-10348, Suffolk
County, Massachusetts, Superior Court ( Boston ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston
at  jmlawrence@mac.com ;
Don Jeffrey in  New York 
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  