-- Ezra Merkin Ordered to Turn Over Documents Tied to N.Y. Suit
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-04T21:53:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ezra-merkin-ordered-to-turn-over-documents-tied-to-n-y-suit-1-.html
J. Ezra Merkin was ordered to turn
over sworn testimony stemming from a suit brought by the  New
York  Attorney General to a couple who sued John Steffens’s
Spring Mountain Capital LP over losses tied to Bernard L. Madoff’s Ponzi scheme.  U.S. District Judge Barbara Jones in New York granted a
request late yesterday for “deposition transcripts,
interrogatories and expert reports,” taken in the lawsuit filed
by then-New York Attorney General  Andrew Cuomo  in 2010. The New
York suit alleges Merkin and his Gabriel Capital Corp. secretly
placed $2.4 billion of client funds with Madoff.  Daniel Goldenson and his wife Suzanne, of Maine, sued
Steffans and his Spring Mountain Capital in federal court in
Bangor, Maine, in 2010, alleging they lost about $2.5 million
after Steffens and Spring Capital invested with Merkin’s Ascot
Fund without their knowledge.  Jones ruled that lawyers with the New York Attorney
General’s office may review the materials sought by the
plaintiffs. Merkin may redact the names of individual investors
except for the Goldensons, the judge said.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to operating a $52 billion  Ponzi
scheme , the largest in U.S. history, is serving a 150-year term
term at the federal medical prison facility in Butner, North
Carolina.  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Merkin, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment about the judge’s ruling.  The cases are In re Goldenson Subpoena 12-MC-068, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan );
Goldenson v. Steffens, 10-CV-440, U.S. District Court, District
of Maine (Bangor).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  