-- MF Global U.K. Staff Seek $62 Million in Bonus, Severance
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-04-04T07:26:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/mf-global-u-k-staff-seek-62-million-in-bonus-severance.html
Employees of  MF Global Holdings
Ltd (MF) .’s U.K. unit are seeking 39 million pounds ($62 million) of
unpaid bonuses, severance pay and pension contributions from the
collapsed broker’s administrator  KPMG  LLP.  The service company that employed staff in  London  has one
of the largest claims on a list of creditors published by KPMG
on March 14. The 39 million pounds is for the unit to meet its
remaining contractual obligations to workers, including
guaranteed bonuses and statutory redundancy pay, KPMG
administrator Richard Heis said.  Former employees trying to recover money from KPMG may only
get a few pence on each pound they claim, said employment lawyer
Jo Keddie of London firm Winckworth Sherwood LLP. Those seeking
bonuses or other payouts are being treated as unsecured
creditors, and will be paid only after KPMG has returned  MF
Global (MFGLQ) ’s customers all their money.  “Unfortunately the majority of debts owed by MF Global to
its former employees are unsecured and, if accepted by the
administrators, they will fall very low in the pecking order for
payment,” Keddie said.  Louis Freeh , the former  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
director now serving as trustee for MF Global’s U.S. holding
company, is considering bonuses for managers who help recover
customer cash. That would go against efforts by the Senate
Agriculture Committee to stop MF Global executives from getting
any bonus payouts. In the U.K., KPMG has promised a retention
bonus to employees who stay on to wind down the London unit.  Unsecured Creditors  Heis said the funds sought by MF Global U.K. Services Ltd.
were an estimate by its directors of how much was owed to staff
on the day MF Global collapsed. While the U.K. unit said in
February it would begin returning funds to clients,
administrators haven’t paid unsecured creditors anything.  KPMG was appointed administrator to return funds to
customers of the failed U.K. brokerage when its New York-based
parent filed bankruptcy on Oct. 31.  About 300 of MF Global U.K.’s 700 workers who were retained
by KPMG to work on the administration were offered bonuses for
staying on, Heis said in January, without stating the total
value.  Including wages, options, shares and bonuses, MF Global’s
U.K. unit paid $232 million to its employees last year,
according to documents filed in a public registry. One U.K.
director received $7 million.  The parent company’s Chief Operating Officer,  Bradley Abelow , General Counsel Laurie Ferber and Chief Financial
Officer Henri J. Steenkamp, are in line to receive bonuses this
year if a New York bankruptcy court approves them, according to
Frank Piantidosi, an adviser to Freeh.  Executives including  Jon Corzine , the former New Jersey
governor and Goldman Sachs executive who led MF Global, don’t
know whether they’ll be able to access $375 million in insurance
proceeds to defend themselves against 21 lawsuits related to the
firm’s collapse. U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Martin Glenn in  Manhattan 
delayed ruling on the request earlier this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  