-- Facebook Seeks End to Ceglia Ownership Suit as IPO Nears
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-04-04T18:46:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/facebook-seeks-end-to-ceglia-ownership-suit-as-ipo-nears.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  asked a court to throw
out  Paul Ceglia ’s claim to part of the world’s biggest social
network without giving him access to evidence including
computers that Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  used at
the time he created the company.  Facebook, which in February for filed an initial public
offering to raise $5 billion, has asked a federal judge in
Buffalo, New York, to dismiss the case before trial and to block
Ceglia from demanding evidence. At a hearing today, Ceglia’s
lawyers will be able to argue for the case to go forward and for
access to evidence held by Facebook and Zuckerberg.  Ceglia, 38, claims a 2003 contract with Zuckerberg made him
a partner in Facebook and entitles him to half of the CEO’s
holdings in the company. Facebook spent months scrutinizing the
alleged contract, computers and e-mail accounts following a
pretrial discovery, or evidence-sharing, plan ordered by U.S.
Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio.  “I can see a judge saying to Facebook, you make a very
compelling case, but let’s give the other side a chance to do
some discovery and explain what’s his side of the story,” said
Thomas Rohback, a specialist in complex litigation in the
Hartford, Connecticut, office of Axinn, Veltrop & Harkrider LLP.  Facebook is worth an estimated $95.8 billion, according to
SharesPost.com, which tracks nonpublic companies. Zuckerberg
owns 28.4 percent of the company. Facebook has said that
Ceglia’s suit is a fraud and was filed too late. The company has
said Ceglia wants to use the litigation to disrupt the IPO and
leverage a settlement.  StreetFax Work  The company said it found the true version of the 2003
contract between Ceglia and Zuckerberg on Ceglia’s own computer
hard drives. The document refers only to work Zuckerberg did for
StreetFax LLC, a company Ceglia was trying to start. It doesn’t
mention Facebook, the company said.  The contract provides “incontrovertible proof” that
Ceglia’s alleged contract is a fake, Facebook claimed in court
papers.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of  New York  (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 