-- Facebook IPO Cuts Operators Out of Cash From Messaging
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-04-04T12:35:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/facebook-ipo-cuts-operators-out-of-cash-from-apps.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s increasing reach,
bolstered by an initial public offering that may value the
company at more than $100 billion, will hurt mobile-phone
operators’ sales from services such as text messaging,  Magister
Advisors  said.  “Facebook’s IPO is about the worst thing that could happen
to network operators,” Victor Basta, managing director of
London-based Magister Advisors, which has advised companies such
as Amazon.com Inc.’s movie-streaming unit Lovefilm, said in a
note today. “They’re supporting the end users’ social
networking habits, but they see very little, if any, commercial
benefit and the downside risks are significant.”  European carriers including  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and Royal
KPN NV have struggled to adapt to the surging demand for social
media on mobile phones, with consumers increasingly
circumventing traditional text message charges by sending free
messages over the Internet. Operators may lose $23.2 billion in
SMS revenue this year, after $13.9 billion in 2011, as
subscribers turn to outside social messaging apps, according to
researcher Ovum.  As Facebook feels more pressure to meet investors’
expectations for profitability, wireless operators will have to
deal with more traffic on their networks and Facebook will have
a difficult time justifying sharing revenue with mobile
companies, Basta said. Facebook applications such as the chat
feature may eat into operators’ income for features such text
messaging, he said.  Data Plans  Still, many operators are embracing Facebook as they want
customers to adopt more-expensive data plans to surf the Web.
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  has begun a partnership with the social
networking site to drive traffic among Indian customers.  France
Telecom SA (FTE) , the owner of the Orange mobile brand, announced
plans last year to sell phones with unlimited access to Facebook
in some markets in Europe and  Africa .  “The fundamental challenge for network operators will be
finding a way of becoming part of the Facebook ecosystem rather
than simply external enablers,” Basta said.  A Facebook spokeswoman declined to comment on anything
relating to the IPO. Magister Advisors said it is not involved
with the transaction.  Facebook, based in  Menlo Park ,  California , filed in
February to raise $5 billion. The company’s implied valuation
rose to $102.8 billion on March 30 in what is expected to be the
last auction of internally circulated stock traded on the
SharesPost Inc. exchange. The world’s most popular social-
networking site plans to hold its IPO in May, a person familiar
with the company’s plans said last month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  