-- Falcone Says Bankruptcy Is an Option for LightSquared
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2012-04-05T14:49:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/falcone-says-bankruptcy-is-an-option-for-lightsquared.html
Phil Falcone  said he may consider
voluntary bankruptcy for LightSquared Inc., the broadband
wireless venture majority owned by his hedge fund that has been
derailed by regulators.  “There are arguments that we would be better off in
bankruptcy than not,” Falcone said in an interview.
“LightSquared, if I have to, I’ll put it into bankruptcy. I
don’t care,” adding that he would maintain control of the
Reston, Virginia-based company if it filed.  The company, which had planned to build a high-speed data
network for as many as 260 million users, is struggling to
survive in the wake of the Federal Communications Commission’s
decision to block the service because of potential signal
interference with global-positioning systems. Falcone, through
his hedge fund Harbinger Capital Partners, has invested about $3
billion in the venture.  Falcone would prefer to get the government to swap his
spectrum for that controlled by the U.S. Department of Defense.
The 49-year-old hedge-fund manager has also been exploring
signal-filtering technology as a possible remedy.  Bankruptcy is “not what I want, not what I desire, I’d
rather find a different way out,” he said in the interview.
Falcone is “seriously considering” bankruptcy, Reuters
reported yesterday.  ‘Complete the Vision’  LightSquared bondholders agreed to give Falcone a waiver
not to put the company into technical default after the FCC said
it planned to revoke LightSquared’s license. Falcone has a
deadline of April 30 to revisit that waiver with his
bondholders, who include  Carl Icahn ,  David Tepper  and Andrew
Beal.  “The rationale behind a voluntary filing is to complete
the vision, to complete the plan to build the network and
protect the company from the creditors who are more interested
in a quick flip,” Falcone said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net ;
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  