-- Fed Sees Improving Economy Reducing Need for Stimulus
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/fed-sees-improving-economy-reducing-need-for-new-accommodation.html
Federal Reserve policy makers see
the improving economy reducing the need for new stimulus even as
they stick to a plan to hold the benchmark  interest rate  near
zero at least through late 2014.  Fed officials called for additional stimulus only “if the
economy lost momentum” or if inflation stays below their 2
percent inflation target, according to minutes of their March 13
meeting released yesterday in  Washington . That contrasts with
their January meeting minutes, in which some policy makers saw
the economy requiring additional action “before long.”  “I would have to see some pretty severe circumstances
before I endorse for another round of quantitative easing,”
Atlanta Fed President  Dennis Lockhart  said yesterday in an
interview. “The outlook is positive enough that I am not sure I
see the need for it.”  A voting member of the  Federal Open Market Committee  this
year, Lockhart has never dissented from a policy decision since
becoming head of the district bank in March 2007.  The central bank sees the  U.S. economy  improving enough to
argue against a new round of quantitative easing while showing
signs of weakness that warrant continued record-low interest
rates. Stocks extended declines after release of the minutes
yesterday while the dollar and Treasury yields rose.  The commitment to low interest rates “at least through
late 2014” hinges on the performance of the economy, “and
members concurred that the date given in the statement would be
subject to revision in response to significant changes in the
economic outlook,” according to the minutes.  Clear Risk  “A number” of policy makers didn’t see that threshold
being met and said that “while recent employment data had been
encouraging,” there was a “non-negligible risk that
improvements in employment could diminish as the year
progressed,” the minutes said.  “They are going to want to see overwhelming evidence that
late 2014 is not the right forecast before they change it,”
said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan Chase &
Co. in  New York . “There is less drama heading into the
meeting” by policy makers on April 24-25. Investors expect
little additional action on the Fed’s balance sheet this month,
and a continuation of the late-2014 low rate pledge at the
gathering this month in Washington, he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 0.4 percent to
1,413.38 as of yesterday, retreating from the highest close
since May 2008 on April 2. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes
increased 12 basis points to 2.3 percent. The Dollar Index, a
gauge of the currency against six major peers, rallied 0.7
percent as of yesterday’s close.  Moderate Growth  The Fed’s forecasting staff revised up their near-term
outlook for U.S. growth “a little,” and reduced their estimate
of potential U.S. output as unemployment fell faster than
expected in a period of moderate economic growth.  The adjustment to potential output resulted in “a measure
of the current output gap that was a little narrower and better
aligned with the staff’s estimate of labor market slack.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has remained cautious about
the economic outlook, saying in a March 27 television interview
with ABC News that despite some improvement in the economy it’s
“far too early to declare victory.”  “We haven’t quite yet got to the point where we can be
completely confident that we’re on a track to full recovery,”
Bernanke said.  Those remarks expanded on a speech by Bernanke on March 26
in Arlington,  Virginia , in which he said the fall in the jobless
rate may reflect “a reversal of the unusually large layoffs
that occurred during late 2008 and over 2009.” Significant
improvement in reducing unemployment will probably require
faster growth, he said.  Raise Forecasts  In their March discussion policy makers did not see the
economy growing so strongly that they would have to raise their
forecasts in coming years.  “Most participants did not interpret the recent economic
and financial information as pointing to a material revision to
the outlook for 2013 and 2014,” the minutes said.  FOMC participants also discussed additional steps they
could take to better explain to the public how changes in the
economic outlook affect monetary policy decisions, such as what
qualitative or quantitative data would prompt which actions,
according to the minutes.  “Several participants suggested that it could be helpful
to discuss at a future meeting some alternative economic
scenarios and the monetary policy responses that might be seen
as appropriate under each one,” according to the minutes, which
noted no decision was made on future steps on the Fed’s
communication strategy.  Higher Gasoline Price  The best six months of job growth since 2006, unemployment
at a three-year low and stock-market gains are giving Americans
the means to withstand a higher gasoline price. A March 30
report from the Commerce Department said Americans increased
their spending by the most in seven months, with purchases
climbing 0.8 percent in February.  “Consumers are becoming a little bit more resilient to
fuel prices,”  Don Johnson , U.S. sales chief for General Motors
Co., said April 2 on Bloomberg Television’s “In The Loop With
Betty Liu.” More consumers will be spurred to replace old cars,
he said, “as the economy continues to strengthen, which it has
been recently, more and more of that pent-up demand will be
released into the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net 
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  