-- Fed Exploring Selling Maiden Lane III Assets From AIG Rescue
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-04-04T20:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/fed-exploring-sales-of-maiden-lane-iii-assets-from-aig-rescue.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
is considering selling assets in its Maiden Lane III LLC
portfolio, which were assumed in the government bailout of
American International Group Inc., the district bank said today.  “The change in the investment objective for Maiden Lane
III reflects a strategic decision to explore possible sales of
some of the assets in the portfolio in light of improving market
conditions and the success of the Maiden Lane II sales,”  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the  New York  Fed, said in an e-mailed
statement.  The New York Fed is seeking to accelerate the repayment of
its loan to the Maiden Lane III vehicle after completing the
sale this year of the assets in its  Maiden Lane II  LLC
portfolio, another pool of debt assumed in AIG’s rescue. The
central bank was owed about  $9 billion  under its loan to Maiden
Lane III as of March 28, according to the New York Fed website.  AIG and the Fed have benefited from the rebound in
mortgage-linked assets, such as those assumed in the bailout.
The insurer may use proceeds from sales of Maiden Lane III
assets to help buy back more stock from the U.S. Treasury
Department, Josh Stirling, an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said in a note to clients today. AIG advanced 5.3 percent
to $32.52 at 4:02 p.m. in New York, the most since February.  “The Fed will only transact if it deems that a particular
transaction represents good value, is done competitively and is
not market disruptive,” Gutt said. No auctions were announced.  After selling the last group of bonds in the Maiden Lane II
pool in February, the New York Fed said that taxpayers earned
$2.8 billion on their $19.5 billion loan to that vehicle. It was
created in 2008 to buy holdings that AIG handed the Fed in
exchange for a cash injection.  Bailout Funds  AIG used proceeds from Maiden Lane II to reduce bailout
obligations to the Treasury. Asset sales have helped AIG pay
down its government lifeline, which swelled to $182.3 billion. A
Treasury share sale last month cut the government’s stake to  70
percent (AIG)  of AIG’s common stock.  Mark Herr, a spokesman for the New York-based insurer,
declined to comment on the Fed’s plan, which was reported
earlier by CNBC.  The Fed committed as much as $52.5 billion in 2008 to buy
mortgage-related assets that were owned or backed by AIG. The
insurer invested a combined $6 billion in two Fed facilities,
and is entitled to a portion of any profits after the regulator
recovers its investment. Maiden Lane II held mortgage-backed
assets AIG had purchased through its securities-lending program.  Maiden Lane III unwound credit-default swaps AIG wrote to
protect counterparties against losses on mortgage-backed
securities. The facility bought the underlying assets that AIG
insured for banks including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Societe
Generale SA (GLE) , sparing the Wall Street firms from any losses.
Lawmakers criticized the payments as a “backdoor bailout” of
the companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  