-- Fed’s Lacker Sees 2013 Growth of 3% Warranting Higher Rates
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-04-04T15:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/fed-s-lacker-expects-2013-growth-of-3-warranting-higher-rates.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said U.S. economic growth will probably
accelerate to about 3 percent next year, warranting an increase
in the central bank’s benchmark interest rate.  “The logical time to raise rates is going to be sometime
next year,” Lacker, a voting member on the policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee  this year, said today in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “That’s based on my sense that
growth is going to pick up enough by then in order to warrant
raising rates to keep inflation pressures under control.”  Fed officials called for additional stimulus only “if the
economy lost momentum” or if inflation stays below their 2
percent inflation target, according to minutes of their March 13
meeting released yesterday in  Washington . That contrasts with
their January meeting minutes, in which some policy makers saw
the economy requiring additional action “before long.”  The  U.S. economy  will probably expand at a pace ranging
from 2 percent to 3 percent this year, making more monetary
stimulus unnecessary, Lacker said.  “Downside risks have diminished now relative to where they
were say four or five months ago, and I think the inflation
picture is looking better,” he said. The rising price of
gasoline “looks as if it’s going to be a transitory uptick in
overall inflation.”  Stocks and commodities tumbled for a second day since the
minutes were released. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 1.1
percent to 1,397.70 at 10:45 a.m. in  New York , after losing 0.4
percent yesterday. The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities fell 0.9
percent after retreating 0.4 percent yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net ;
Trish Regan in New York at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  