-- Fed’s Lacker Says Volcker Rule May Be ‘Impossible’ to Implement
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-04-04T17:56:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/fed-s-lacker-says-volcker-rule-may-be-impossible-to-implement.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said a U.S. law restricting proprietary
trading at banks and scheduled for enactment in July may be
“impossible” to implement.  The so-called Volcker rule, named for its original
champion, former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , is aimed at reducing
the odds that banks will make risky investments with their own
capital and put depositors’ money at risk. Lacker said bank
trading books were “kind of tangential” to the financial
crisis of 2008-2009, when bank capital was eroded by losses on
risky mortgages, many of them bundled into complex securities.  The Volcker rule is “fairly difficult if not impossible to
implement in a way that is at all reasonable,” Lacker said
today in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Trish Regan .  The proposal is one of the most contentious provisions of
the 2010 Dodd-Frank act on financial oversight, and Lacker said
it would be “high on the list” of things he would change if he
could. Work on the rule is diverting resources from more
“essential” requirements in the act that would limit taxpayer-
funded bailouts, such as living wills where large banks must
describe to regulators how they would dissolve themselves in a
crisis, he said.  “We need to push hard to have firms structure themselves,
restructure themselves if necessary, to make sure” their
resolution “is an orderly process,” Lacker said. “Working
through that will reveal a lot about what authorities should be
afraid of or not afraid of about sending a large institution to
bankruptcy without U.S. government assistance.”  “The goal, I think, ought to be no taxpayer assistance for
failing institutions,” Lacker said.  Second Largest  The Richmond Fed has supervisory responsibility for Bank of
America Corp., the second-largest  U.S. bank  by assets.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Feb. 29 that the
central bank and other regulators won’t meet the July deadline
to complete work on the Volcker rule. The Fed has received over
17,000 comment letters on the proposal.  The ban on proprietary trading is set to take effect by
July 21 even if the rule-making is still in progress. It would
include a two-year transition period. The Fed then could issue
three, one-year implementation extensions on a case-by-case
basis after that.  Tarullo, Senate  Regulators, including Fed Governor  Daniel Tarullo , said at
a March 22 Senate Banking Committee hearing that they could
provide guidance on the conformance period of the Volcker rule
if the July deadline isn’t met.  “It’s incumbent on all the regulators to provide some
guidance for firms to let them know exactly what the
expectations will be, and not let this hang out there as an
unknown,” Tarullo said.  Former Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. Chairman  Sheila Bair 
has told lawmakers that the Volcker rule is so complicated that
regulators should consider starting over.  Representative  Barney Frank , a Democrat from  Massachusetts 
and co-author of the Dodd-Frank act, issued a statement last
month urging regulators to release a simplified version of the
proprietary trading ban by Sept. 3.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at +1-
   chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ; 