-- Fed’s Lacker Says Markets Saw Odds of New Easing as Too High
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-04-04T18:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/fed-s-lacker-says-markets-saw-odds-of-new-easing-as-too-high-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said financial markets had assigned too
high a probability that the Fed would begin a new round of asset
purchases to reduce borrowing costs and spur economic growth.  “I was surprised a couple months ago at the probability
market participants seemed to ascribe to further easing,”
Lacker, a voting member of the  Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR) ,
told reporters and editors today at the Bloomberg News
Washington bureau. “While further easing is obviously something
that’s conceivable, I wouldn’t favor it unless conditions
deteriorated quite substantially” for growth and inflation.  Stocks and commodities continued their decline for a second
day after the minutes of the FOMC’s March 13 meeting called for
easing only “if the economy lost momentum” or if inflation
fell below its 2 percent target. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
lost 1.1 percent to 1,397.66 as of 2 p.m. in  New York , after a
0.4 percent decline yesterday. The S&P GSCI gauge of commodities
retreated 1.7 percent after falling 0.4 percent yesterday. The
yield on the ten-year Treasury fell to 2.24 percent from 2.30
percent yesterday.  Lone Dissent  Lacker cast the sole dissenting vote on the FOMC’s March 13
statement that U.S. economic conditions will probably warrant
“exceptionally low” levels of the federal funds rate at least
through late-2014. The central bank may need to raise interest
rates next year to avert “inflationary pressures” as the
economy expands, Lacker said in a March 16 statement.  The Richmond Fed chief said today interest rates will
probably need to be raised as a “preemptive” move against
price increases. “We don’t want to wait until inflation is
broken out to raise rates,” he said.  Inflation will probably increase at “around 2 percent over
the next couple of years,” Lacker said. “To maintain our
credibility I think we need to be looking to raise rates before
inflation pressures” build, he said.  Policy makers are holding off on increasing monetary
accommodation unless the economic expansion falters or prices
rise at a rate slower than its 2 percent target, according to
minutes of their March 13 meeting released yesterday.  The March minutes show decreased urgency to add stimulus
and no sentiment expressed for additional easing without
deterioration in economic conditions. The central bank also
affirmed its plan, first announced in January, to hold  interest
rates  near zero at least through late 2014.  Primary Dealers  The New York Fed’s survey of primary dealers conducted
before policy makers met last month showed that the firms saw
the probability of another round of bond buying declining from
January.  The median respondent saw a 50 percent chance that the Fed
would expand its balance sheet through securities purchases
within one year, down from 55 percent odds in the survey
conducted before the FOMC’s Jan. 24-25 meeting, results released
today by the New York Fed showed.  Lacker said he expects gross domestic product to increase
between 2 percent and 3 percent this year. “Growth is likely to
pick up next year to above 3 percent and employment growth will
pick up commensurately and that’s the basis for my expectation
that we’re likely to find it warranted to raise rates some time
next year,” he said.  Economists estimate that GDP will increase by 2.2 percent
this year and 2.4 percent next year, according to the median of
72 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Downside Risks  “Downside risks have diminished now relative to where they
were say four or five months ago, and I think the inflation
picture is looking better,” he said in an interview on
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Trish Regan  which
will air today. The rising price of gasoline “looks as if it’s
going to be a transitory uptick in overall inflation.”  Policy makers at last month’s FOMC meeting raised their
assessment of the economy as the labor market strengthened and
refrained from taking new action to cut borrowing costs.  The best six-month streak of job growth since 2006 prompted
Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  to acknowledge an improved path for
the economy, even as policy makers repeated that unemployment
will probably stay high enough to warrant keeping borrowing
costs “exceptionally low” at least through late 2014.  Unemployment Rate  “The  unemployment rate  has declined notably in recent
months but remains elevated,” the FOMC said its statement. It
also said “strains in global financial markets have eased,
though they continue to pose significant downside risks to the
economic outlook.”  Lacker, 56, has been president of the Richmond Fed since
2004 and is the second-longest serving among all 12 regional
bank presidents after  Cleveland ’s  Sandra Pianalto . Lacker was an
assistant professor of economics at  Purdue University  in  West
Lafayette ,  Indiana , before joining the Richmond Fed in 1989 as
an economist in the research department.  The district bank chief also said he objects to any
suggestion that the Fed would ever “print money to keep the
interest expense on the debt down” for the U.S. government and
that “in no way should our policy be influenced” by mounting
fiscal shortfalls.  Lacker also said the Fed must remain independent from
electoral politics and criticism from lawmakers.  Election Platform  “To make it part of your election platform, to yank around
this institution is, I think, bad policy” he said. “We don’t
run monetary policy for Democrats or for Republicans. And I’d be
much more comfortable if the political parties in their battles
with each other over legitimate and important issues in our
country left the  Federal Reserve  out of it.”  Lacker said former Chairman  Paul Volcker  ensured the Fed’s
credibility by raising borrowing costs to a high of  20 percent 
in 1980 to tame inflation. Maintaining that credibility since
then “has been an art form” and the central bank should be
given more credit for “successfully” keeping inflation at an
average of about 2 percent over the past 18 years, he said.  “Paul Volcker solved the problem in a different way and a
very useful way by just demonstrating that we were willing to
take the heat,” he said. “We were willing to endure a
significant recession that we caused in order to bring prices
under control, bring inflation under control. And that did it.
That cemented our credibility.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  