-- Fisker Considers Overseas Options for Building Second Car
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-04-04T15:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/fisker-readying-second-luxury-plug-in-after-karma-setbacks-1-.html
Fisker Automotive Inc., maker of
plug-in luxury cars, is considering building its second model
overseas instead of following through on a U.S.-backed plan to
use a Delaware plant, Chief Executive Officer Tom LaSorda said.  The former General Motors Co. plant in Wilmington remains
the company’s first choice for production of the new model, now
called the Atlantic, LaSorda said late yesterday at a news
conference in  New York .  The company will make a decision at the end of the summer,
LaSorda said. It will be a business decision based on “what’s
best for the company,” not on the outcome of negotiations to
get the rest of its U.S. Energy Department funding that was cut
off last year, he said.  “We’re going to run this company as if we’re on our own,”
LaSorda said.  Fisker is preparing to build a second rechargeable model as
it fixes glitches and boosts deliveries of its $103,000 Karma
sedan, which is built under contract for Fisker at a factory in
 Finland .  The company was approved for $529 million in U.S. loans in
2009 to develop technology for the Karma and to revamp the
closed factory in Wilmington. The company had drawn down about
$193 million when Fisker disclosed in February its access to the
funds was suspended last year, owing to delays with the Karma.  ‘Difficult Journey’  The Atlantic is already “90 percent fully developed,”
 Henrik Fisker , the Anaheim, California-based company’s co-
founder and designer, said yesterday. The vehicle is smaller,
less expensive and more fuel-efficient than the Karma, he said.  Fisker, intending to become profitable selling cars powered
by lithium-ion batteries and gasoline, has raised more than $1
billion from private investors.  “It’s been a difficult journey, but we are here,” Fisker
said at the press conference, broadcast on the company’s
website. The Atlantic “will be built and will go into
production,” he said, without elaborating.  Deliveries, Recall  The company has delivered about 700 Karmas since late last
year. The vehicle, with a range of 30 miles to 50 miles on
lithium-ion battery power before a gasoline engine propels it,
was recalled in December to fix a battery-pack clamp.  Fisker sold 250 of the cars in March, LaSorda told
reporters after the news conference. The company expects to sell
4,000 worldwide by the end of the year, he said.  Last week, the closely held company said defective battery
packs supplied by  A123 Systems Inc. (AONE)  caused a Karma to shut down
during tests by Consumer Reports magazine.  LaSorda visited A123’s factory in  Michigan  to investigate
the defect, which turned out to be a welding flaw, he said. The
battery supplier is absorbing the costs of the recall, said
LaSorda, a former chief executive of Chrysler Group LLC.  Fisker has done some work preparing the Wilmington plant to
produce the new model, Delaware Governor Jack Markell said in an
April 2 interview.  Work crews already have addressed most of the environmental
issues left over from GM’s operation of the site, which
“weren’t as extensive as expected,” Markell said.  Delaware Jobs  If Fisker and government officials can work out their
differences over the loan funds, the company should be on track
to install car-production equipment and hire as many as 600
autoworkers for the Delaware facility, Markell said.  “We would absolutely love to have those jobs,” the
governor added.  LaSorda called the Wilmington factory a “green plant,”
and credited GM for documenting potential pollution concerns.  “I’m not worried about environmental problems at all,”
LaSorda said. Fisker is looking at putting “something” in
Wilmington, even if it isn’t the Atlantic, he said.  Fisker officials didn’t immediately provide the price or
on-sale date for the Atlantic. The company is backed by
investors including  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers (ZZISK)  and Palo
Alto Investors LLC.  Fisker is building its business plan around financing
options other than the Energy Department loan, LaSorda said. The
company is looking for other partners, including more outside
the U.S., he said.  “If we get it, fine,” LaSorda said of the government
loan. “If we don’t, we can still have a great company. We’re
going to build this car with or without DOE funding.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  