-- Flying Auto Reviving Dreams of Chitty Chitty Bang Bang
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-04-04T21:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/flying-auto-reviving-dreams-of-chitty-chitty-bang-bang.html
A group of Massachusetts Institute
of Technology-trained engineers is trying to go where no
corporation has gone before: building a profitable business
selling flying cars.  The  Terrafugia Transition  seats two and can take off and
land from more than 5,000 public U.S. airfields. It can be
driven on any road and runs on the same gasoline as high-
performance cars. So far, the company said, 95 people have put
down at least $10,000 to reserve one of the $279,000 planes.
Depositors include pilots and the wealthy in search of the
latest toy.  Whether the flying car gets off the ground or not, it’s a
reminder -- amid all the talk of mileage standards and profit
margins -- that cars have always been about dreams, from Marty
McFly’s DeLorean to autos with propellers that turned into
boats. Indeed, Carl Dietrich, Terrafugia’s founder and chief
executive officer, has dreamed about this since he watched
reruns of “The Jetsons,” the cartoon where George Jetson
commuted to his job in a flying car.  An aeronautical engineer and pilot, Dietrich is also
practical. It wasn’t until 2004, when the  Federal Aviation
Administration  lowered the barrier for getting a pilot’s license
and created a new category of aircraft, that he decided there
was business potential.  ‘I Want It’  “The sense I’ve gotten in having conversations is, ‘The
flying car is something I was promised a long time ago and I
want it,’” Dietrich said. Customers “don’t care about
practical arguments. They need to have it as part of a
collection. Our long-run goal is to make this not just a
novelty, but something really practical.”  The Transition will be on display at the  New York auto
show , which opens to the public tomorrow, with a special offer
to reserve one for a $2,500 non-refundable deposit.  Dietrich says eventually selling 500 Transitions per year
is an optimistic yet realistic goal.  “There’s no guarantee it will be a good investment of my
time and energy and my investors’ time and energy,” he said.
“But at least I can show, ‘Hey, it might be possible.’”  Flying cars have long captured the imagination, including a
movie and play based on “Chitty Chitty Bang Bang,” the
children’s book by  Ian Fleming .  ‘Everyman’s Airplane’  One of the Transition’s biggest obstacles is that no
predecessor has ever succeeded commercially and become an
“everyman’s airplane,” said Dom Pisano, curator in the
aeronautics division of the Smithsonian National Air & Space
Museum.  “Practicality is one huge reason,” Pisano said. “The
aerodynamics for automobiles are very different than for
airplanes and we’ve ended up with halfway measures in both
categories, and that’s a big part of the reason they’ve
failed.”  The museum’s collection includes three previous flops: a
 Stout Skycar  from the 1930s, a  Fulton Airphibian  from the 1940s
and a  Waterman Aerobile  from the 1950s.  “The idea has had a long history, but not one of ultimate
long-term success,” Pisano said.  In the 1930s, inventor Harold Pitcairn developed an AC-35
Autogiro and sold 19 of them. It was more aircraft than car,
said  John Brown , who runs a website devoted to flying vehicles
called  RoadableTimes.com  and is publishing a book later this
year called “All The World’s Flying Cars” about the history of
the category.  In the 1940s, a Connecticut man named Robert Fulton created
the Airphibian and finished eight of them with several more
partially built before arguments among his investors scuttled
the project, Brown said.  1947 Crash  General Dynamics Corp. (GD)  was planning production of 160,000
flying cars called Convair until a crash during a 1947 test
flight frightened the public and dissuaded many would-be
inventors for decades, Brown said.  Better engineering, lighter materials and engines with more
powerful thrust-to-weight ratios have given flying cars renewed
viability, with about 35 models in existence today globally,
Brown said. That doesn’t include other vehicles such as flying
bicycles, powered parachutes and gyroscope or helicopter models.  “We’ve sent man to the moon, kids in school can Skype from
 Europe  to the U.S. and we can cure most diseases,” Brown said.
“Putting wheels on a light airplane isn’t that hard, you would
think, but it’s actually very hard.”  Brown is also working with a German company on a roadable
aircraft called the Carplane.  Not for Everyone  “I think I’ll own a flying car in my lifetime,” said
Brown, 49. “I don’t know which year, but I think it will
happen.”  The Transition, which will require a sport pilot’s license,
isn’t for everyone. Woburn, Massachusetts-based Terrafugia said
its target market includes hedge-fund managers and other wealthy
Wall Street types. Also among the intended customers are
frequent fliers taking short trips for work or pleasure who are
frustrated by the cost and hassle of owning a one-dimensional
vehicle.  A press of a button folds the wings -- once at the hull and
once in mid-span.  “This isn’t so much the flying car we were told about in
‘The Jetsons,’” said Dietrich, 34, who started saving for a
pilot license at age 8 and earned it at 17, as soon as he was
old enough. “This is an airplane that has the potential to be
more convenient and useful for pilots.”  Visual Flight Rules  Dietrich incorporated in 2006. The company hasn’t received
money from institutional or venture investors, he said.  The Terrafugia Transition is designated a  light sport
aircraft , and it won’t be certified by the Federal Aviation
Administration. That means it will be restricted to visual
flight rules. It can fly only in daylight and in clear skies.  The Transition couldn’t enter Class A or B airspace around
major commercial airports unless equipped with devices that help
air-traffic controllers monitor a plane’s location and the pilot
would need a higher-level license with more flying experience to
enter airspace around even medium-sized airports, said Bill Waldock, a professor of safety and crash investigation at Embry-
Riddle Aeronautical University in Prescott,  Arizona .  ‘Different Skill Sets’  “There isn’t much relationship between driving a car and
flying a plane -- they’re two completely different skill sets,”
Waldock said. “I get nervous when you try to mix hybrid things
like this.”  The prototype plane has flown 28 times, Dietrich said. Two
production prototypes recently began testing, and production is
scheduled to start later this year, he said.  With the wings up, the vehicle is about the size of  Honda
Motor Co.’s (7267)  Odyssey minivan. It will fit in the garages of most
homes, Dietrich said.  And, in fact, even with a flying car, miles per gallon does
matter, so: Dietrich said the vehicle gets 35 miles (56
kilometers) per gallon on the road and 20 miles per gallon while
flying at 100 miles an hour.  -- Editors: John Brecher,  Bill Koenig   To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 