-- Food Risk Rises as Import Reliance Makes U.S. Safety Harder
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-04-04T16:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/food-risk-rises-as-import-reliance-makes-u-s-safety-test-harder.html
Imported food and drugs in the U.S.
have tripled in the past decade, making it tougher on regulators
to police the safety of products that Americans consume, the
 Institute of Medicine  said.  About 85 percent of the seafood Americans buy, 39 percent
of fruit and nuts and 18 percent of vegetables come from abroad,
according to a report today by the institute, a branch of the
 National Academy of Sciences  that helps the government make
health decisions. About 80 percent of active pharmaceutical
ingredients and 40 percent of finished drugs originate in
nations outside the U.S.  The health of Americans are linked to regulators worldwide,
a point made in 2007 and 2008 when dogs and cats were stricken
by tainted pet food and people died from contamination in  Baxter
International Inc. (BAX) ’s blood thinner heparin. The ingredients in
both incidents came from China. The  Food and Drug Administration 
needs to partner with regulators abroad to help bring them up to
speed to protect Americans, the institute wrote.  “The integrated global economy demands cooperation across
borders -- to thwart terrorists, reduce environmental hazards,
and ensure that our food and medical products are safe and
effective,” Harvey Fineberg, president of the institute, based
in  Washington , wrote in the almost 300-page report.  The FDA asked the institute to examine gaps in the
regulatory systems of developing countries and come up with a
strategy for the agency to improve safety. The institute focused
on countries that are predicted to be major pharmaceutical and
agricultural trading partners with the U.S.:  Mexico ,  Brazil ,
 South Africa ,  India ,  Thailand  and China.  Inadequate Safety  “The FDA commissioned this study with the frank admission
that its methods of ensuring product safety, inspections at
factories and ports of entry, are inadequate when regulated
products arrive at 300 different ports of entry from over
300,000 factories in 150 different countries,” according to the
report, which was written by an institute committee of academics
and regulators.  The FDA yesterday  told  health-care providers that it
discovered counterfeit versions of  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s cancer
medicine Avastin that contained no active ingredient. The fakes
were in boxes marked Altuzan, Turkey’s version of Avastin, which
isn’t approved in the U.S, the FDA said.  The FDA had made alerts about counterfeit Avastin in
February that also didn’t contain the medicine’s active
ingredient. The drug is approved in the U.S. to treat colon and
kidney cancers that have spread, a type of brain tumor and a
certain type of lung cancer.  Supply Chains  Avastin is Basel, Switzerland-based Roche’s second-biggest
seller with  $6 billion  in sales last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The institute’s report found regulators in developing
countries have problems meeting international standards and
tracking medical products. Companies such as  Wal-Mart Stores
Inc. (WMT)  and  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG)  control the food market and can
trace those supplies. During the heparin crisis, neither the FDA
nor Deerfield, Illinois-based Baxter was able to recreate the
supply chain, taking weeks to get close to the source, according
to the report.  The FDA should share inspection reports with countries that
have strict regulatory standards, such as European inspectors,
to avoid duplicating work “especially when a vast number of
facilities go uninspected,” the institute recommended. The
agency also should help developing countries improve
surveillance, such as searching for adverse events at hospitals,
and facilitate training of international regulators.  FDA Inspections  The FDA inspected 424 foreign drug facilities in fiscal
2009, compared to 1,015 domestic establishments the same year,
according to a September report from the  Government
Accountability Office , the investigative arm of Congress. The
FDA opened an office in  China  in 2009. President  Barack Obama ’s
fiscal 2013 budget includes $10 million for 16 inspectors who
will be stationed in China, Patrick McGarey, assistant
commissioner for budget, said in February when the proposal was
released.  In all, the institute’s report makes 13 recommendations
that also include partnering with businesses to create frugal
ways to help poor countries prevent fraud and track food.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  