-- Former World Bank Managers Endorse Okonjo-Iweala to Lead Lender
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-04-04T23:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/former-world-bank-managers-endorse-okonjo-iweala-to-lead-lender.html
A group of former  World Bank 
officials including one-time chief economist Francois Bourguignon said it supports Nigerian Finance Minister Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala’s candidacy to become the lender’s president.  The 39 former managers, in a letter sent to the bank’s
members, cited Okonjo-Iweala’s “deep experience in
international and national issues of economic management” and
said she has the ability to increase the bank’s effectiveness.
Okonjo-Iweala, who was a managing director at the bank until
last August, “would hit the ground running and get things done
from the start,” the letter said.  Challenges for the future president range from
international fundraising to brokering agreements on global
issues, the former officials wrote. While all the three
presidency candidates, including former Colombian Finance
Minister Jose Antonio Ocampo, have “strong qualifications,”
Okonjo-Iweala’s skills cover the full spectrum of criteria, they
said.  Uri Dadush, a former World Bank director of policy and one
of the 39 signers, provided Bloomberg with a copy of the letter.  The U.S. is the bank’s largest shareholder and has always
picked the bank’s president, a tradition that’s now being
disputed by rival candidates. The U.S. nominee, Dartmouth
College President Jim Yong Kim, has received an endorsement from
countries including Canada and  Japan . Kim has been on a world
tour to seek advice about priorities for the bank.  World Bank Decision  The World Bank has said it will interview the three
candidates April 9-11 and plans to announce its decision the
following week, according to board officials.  The former officials endorsing  Okonjo-Iweala, who said
they wrote in their personal capacities, include Mustapha Nabli,
governor of  Tunisia ’s central bank, and Jean-Michel Severino,
who headed  France ’s International Development Agency from 2001
to 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  