-- Klein, Bacon Nudes May Fetch $40 Million Each at Auction
-- B y   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-04-05T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/francis-bacon-canvas-priced-at-40-million-in-n-y-sale.html
Yves Klein’s 1962 fire-color
painting “FC 1,” whose creation involved two naked models, a
blowtorch and a fireman, may bring in $40 million at auction
next month.  Finished several weeks before the artist’s death at the age
of 34, the 10-foot-wide artwork will be a highlight of the
 Christie’s International (CHRS)  postwar and contemporary sale on May 8.  The gold, flame-licked image depicts a pair of female
figures bending backward with outstretched arms, outlined by
Klein’s signature blue paint.  Klein’s current highest price at auction is $23.6 million,
achieved for a gold-leaf-on-panel work at  Sotheby’s (BID)  in May 2008.
Guaranteed by a third party, “FC 1” is expected to bring $30
to $40 million and establish a record for the French artist.  “It’s really his masterpiece in the proper sense of the
word,” said Loic Gouzer, the specialist in postwar and
contemporary art who won the consignment for Christie’s. “He
was risking his life.”  Klein staged the creation of the painting, inviting
photographers, a cameraman and the press to document it. The
footage was used in “La Revolution Bleue,” a documentary about
the artist.  Wet Models  It shows Klein spraying the models with water as they press
their naked bodies against specially treated cardboard panels.
Once the models move aside, Klein grabs the blowtorch and
directs the flame at the surface.  The steps are repeated as the models coat themselves with
paint, leaving the marks of their breasts and thighs. While the
artist directed the models and adjusted their positions, he
never actually touched the surface with his hand.  “The atelier was cold, huge, and draughty, bitter winter
in Paris,” Elena Palumbo-Mosca, one of the models, said in a
1997 interview. “The hard physical conditions in close contact
with the primeval elements, fire and water, turned the
experience into a veritable rite of passage.”  The work comes from a private Swiss collection and was
exhibited in numerous museums, including the Guggenheim in  New
York  and the Hirshhorn in Washington D.C.  “I had a cutout of this work as a kid,” said Gouzer.
“It’s the painting I was always chasing, but I didn’t know
where it was. Finally I tracked it down and just made an
offer.”  Bacon at Sotheby’s  A Francis Bacon painting may also sell for as much as 
$40 million as a highlight of Sotheby’s contemporary-art 
evening sale in New York on May 9.  The 1976 canvas, “Figure Writing Reflected in Mirror,”
also may help revive the Irish painter’s auction revenue, which
fell sharply after Sotheby’s record sale of his 1976
“Triptych” for $86.3 million in May 2008.  “Ever since we sold the ‘Triptych,’ nothing of this
quality has come up on the market,” said  Tobias Meyer ,
worldwide head of contemporary art at Sotheby’s, in an
interview. “People didn’t really offer anything; the motivation
wasn’t there.”  Bacon’s auction revenue dropped 99 percent in 2009,
according to  Artprice , a French research company, and last year
remained 49 percent below the 2008 level.  In “Figure Writing Reflected in Mirror” earth tones,
black and gray are contrasted with pastel blue and green. It
depicts a seated man scribbling on a white sheet of paper with
his back and profile toward the viewer.  The work appeared in Bacon’s 1977 exhibition at Galerie
Claude Bernard in Paris alongside “Triptych,” which depicts a
headless man devoured by vultures.  “This was the show everyone was blown away by,” said
Meyer. “There were so many visitors, they had to close the
street.”  The consigner bought “Figure Writing” directly from the
exhibition, and it remained in the same collection until now,
according to Meyer.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 