-- GE Capital Swaps Gain After Moody’s Cuts Rating Two Levels
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-04-04T21:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ge-debt-rating-cut-as-moody-s-cites-finance-unit-s-funding-risks.html
The cost to protect debt from
 General Electric Co. (GE) ’s finance unit against a default rose to
the most in almost a month after Moody’s Investors Service cut
its credit rating by two steps.  Credit default swaps on  GE Capital  Corp. climbed 9.2 basis
points to 146.2 basis points, the biggest increase since March
6, as of 4:30 p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA.
“Heightened risk” from the finance unit prompted Moody’s to
cut GE Capital’s rating to A1 and reduce the parent company’s
grade one level to Aa3, the ratings company said yesterday.  The cuts conclude a review begun March 19 after Moody’s
revised the criteria for ratings of financial companies
including GE Capital. They don’t reflect the unit’s diminished
importance to Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE since profits
evaporated during the financial crisis, said Joel Levington,
head of corporate credit at  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)   “This is nothing more than Moody’s taking a very delayed
action,” Levington, who’s based in New York, said in an e-mail.
“This is a late reassessment of a sector that obviously has
risk.”  Moody’s said the downgrades reflect “the impact of GE
Capital’s higher risk profile on GE,” in part from a GE Capital
funding model reliant on access to debt markets. Without GE’s
support, the finance arm would be rated Baa1, three levels
lower, Moody’s said.  Borrowing Costs Unaffected  The cuts are unlikely to affect the company’s borrowing
costs or delay the  Federal Reserve  in approving the resumption
of payouts from GE Capital to its parent,  Julian Mitchell , an
 analyst  at Credit Suisse Group AG in  New York , wrote in a note
to clients.  “We continue to think that GE Capital will resume its
dividend, which will allow for some increased capital returns to
shareholders, as well as a more aggressive M&A program” in the
second half of this year, Mitchell wrote.  A GE spokesman,  Andrew Williams , said Moody’s actions
reflect a change in the ratings company’s methodology, not GE’s
credit position, “which has only improved in the past few
years.”  GE Capital’s $1.43 billion of 2.9 percent notes due in
January 2017 traded fell 0.6 cent to 103.43 cents on the dollar
at 4:12 p.m. in New York, according to Trace, the bond-price
reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.
The yield climbed to 2.14 percent.  Credit Default Swaps  Five-year credit default swaps on GE Capital have climbed
20 basis points since falling on March 19 to 126 basis points,
the lowest in more than eight months, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Moody’s and  Standard & Poor’s  have assigned GE and its
finance unit equal credit ratings  since  at least 1990, according
to GE and data compiled by Bloomberg.  GE  shares  fell 1.1 percent to $19.74 at the close in New
York and have advanced 10.2 percent this year, compared with an
11.2 percent gain for the  S&P 500 Index .  ‘Healthy Balance Sheet’  “With over $80 billion in cash and a healthy balance
sheet, GE is well positioned and GE Capital remains one of the
highest-rated financial services companies in the world,”
Williams said in an e-mail.  The Moody’s review took place after GE began working to
diversify funding at the finance unit by reducing borrowing in
unsecured debt markets and seeking alternative sources of
capital such as deposits.  GE has been bolstering its industrial divisions with
acquisitions focused on energy while shrinking its financial
unit after global credit markets froze following the September
2008 bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. GE lost its top
credit ratings of Aaa from Moody’s and AAA from S&P in March
2009.  “We believe that GE’s industrial operations continue to
have many Aaa-like credit characteristics,”  Russell Solomon ,
Moody’s lead analyst for GE, said in the statement. “The
downgrade reflects Moody’s view of the heightened risk profile
inherent to finance companies like GE Capital, which has
strategic importance to GE, rather than any deemed incremental
risk related to GE’s industrial business lines.”  GE Capital generated  31 percent  of the parent compay’s
$147.3 billion in sales in 2011, according to a regulatory
filing. The division’s profit of $6.55 billion was 46 percent of
GE’s earnings.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  