-- Geithner Says Republicans Are Unwilling on Budget, Tax Fixes
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-04-04T20:21:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/geithner-says-republicans-are-unwilling-on-budget-tax-fixes-1-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Republicans have been unwilling to put aside
politics to agree on a budget and change the tax system.  “A growth strategy for the American economy requires more
than promises to cut taxes and spending,” Geithner said in a
speech to the Economic Club of Chicago today. “We have to be
willing to do things, not just cut things.”  Geithner said Republicans have been unwilling to embrace
significant revenue even through tax reforms and he hopes the
“collision of expiring tax cuts” will give an incentive for
politicians to come together.  U.S.  House Republicans  on March 29 endorsed a budget that
would require eliminating $4.6 trillion in tax breaks over the
next decade. Democrats have been urging Republicans to be more
specific about their proposals, particularly on what tax breaks
would be eliminated. In a speech yesterday, President  Barack Obama  said there is “no way” Republicans can reach their
target without affecting middle-class tax breaks for retirement,
health care and homeownership.  “There is no economic or financial case for using the fear
of future deficits to cut as deeply into core functions of the
government, to weaken the safety net or fundamentally alter
Medicare benefits as do the Republican proposals,” Geithner
said.  Sensible, Fair Way  The only sensible and fair way to bring down deficits is to
have a balanced plan, mostly through spending savings, and with
some increased revenue through  tax reform , Geithner said in a
Fox Business Network interview.  “What you need to do to help make sure this economy is
strengthening is give the American people more confidence their
political leaders in Washington are going to come together, make
the compromises they need to make another substantial down
payment on long-term deficit reduction,” Geithner said in the
interview.  Earlier, in his talk to the Economic Club of  Chicago , the
Treasury secretary reiterated the U.S. view that  China  “still
has an undervalued currency.” He said that China’s policy is
“designed to slow the pace in which market forces are still
allowed to push the  exchange rate  higher.”  In the U.S. “the biggest source of unfinished business”
in the financial reform effort is in housing, and the country is
“much further behind” in setting out the path of housing
reform, according to the Treasury secretary.  U.S. Challenges  Geithner said the challenges to the American economy are
about barriers to economic opportunity, economic security and
political constraints, while “ Europe  and oil still present
risks.”  “The balance sheet of the business sector is exceptionally
strong, and the economy as a whole is more productive than
before the crisis,” Geithner said. “These are promising
developments, but we still face some very tough challenges.”  The  Federal Reserve  said it would refrain from increasing
monetary accommodation unless the economic expansion falters or
prices rise at a rate slower than its 2 percent target,
according to minutes of the March 13 policy meeting released
yesterday.  Europe Progress  Geithner said Europe has made “a huge amount of progress
in the last six months or so.” He said the recent European
firewall changes are so important to give governments time to
put in place reforms and get traction.  “They’ve got a new firewall they announced last week.
Those are promising very important steps toward calming
financial tensions and reducing the risk,” Geithner said.
“They have a long way to go. It is going to be a very fragile
and uncertain process.”  Euro-area finance ministers decided March 30 that 500
billion euros ($656 billion) in fresh money would go along with
300 billion euros already committed to create an 800 billion-
euro defense against the two-year-old turmoil.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Meera Louis in  Washington  at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  