-- Georgia Rejects Ivanishvili Citizenship Bid, Leaves Door Open
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-04-04T13:10:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/georgia-rejects-ivanishvili-citizenship-bid-leaves-door-open.html
Georgia’s Justice Ministry denied
billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili’s request for citizenship, while
indicating that he can apply again using a different procedure.  The ministry said that Ivanishvili, who holds French
citizenship, sought to become a Georgian citizen via
naturalization, a category reserved for stateless persons.  “Being a foreign national, Mr. Ivanishvili can seek
Georgian citizenship through the dual-citizenship process, as
provided by the relevant Georgian legislation,” the ministry
said today in an e-mailed statement. “No such request has yet
been filed by Mr. Ivanishvili with the relevant government
agencies.”  Ivanishvili, a Rossiiskiy Kredit Bank board member whose
wealth Forbes magazine  estimates  at $6.4 billion, was stripped
of Georgian citizenship on Oct. 11. While Georgia allows dual
citizenship, Ivanishvili, who was already a Georgian and Russian
subject, forfeited his right to Georgian citizenship when he
obtained a third, French, passport, according to the ministry.  The billionaire has created a political coalition opposed
to President Mikheil Saakashvili and plans to contest a
parliamentary election in October. On Dec. 29, Ivanishvili
announced that his Russian citizenship had been terminated and
that he would renounce his ties to  France .  Archil Kbilashvili, a lawyer for Ivanishvili, told
reporters in the capital Tbilisi that he would appeal today’s
ruling.  As many as 47 percent of likely voters would back
Saakashvili’s National Movement if the vote were held tomorrow,
according to a survey by the National Democratic Institute
published on March 27. Ivanishvili’s coalition has 10 percent
backing, the poll showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  