-- Georgia Sees Tourism Gaining Share of GDP on Russian Visitors
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-04-04T05:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/georgia-sees-tourism-gaining-share-of-gdp-on-russian-visitors.html
Georgia ’s tourism industry, whose
share of economic output has grown to 7 percent this year, is
set to expand further as a thaw in relations with Russia spurs
an influx of visitors.  “Russian tourists, as a high-spending segment, are
important for Georgia,” Maya Sidamonidze, chairman of the
National Tourism Agency, said yesterday in a telephone interview
from the capital, Tbilisi. “We expect their share to grow to 40
percent in the next few years from only 7 percent of total
tourists this year.”  The Black Sea nation is benefiting from a threefold
increase in Russian arrivals last month at tourist destinations
such as Tbilisi, the port of Batumi and ski resorts of Bakuriani
and Gudauri. Georgia’s tourism industry contributed 5 percent to
economic output in 2011, Economy Minister Vera Kobalia said,
adding that the former Soviet republic expects more than 3
million tourists this year, from 2 million in 2010.  Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili in February called
for closer economic ties with  Russia , with which it fought a
five-day war in 2008, offering visa-free travel for investors
and tourists from its larger neighbor. Russia proposed to
restore diplomatic relations last month, an offer spurned by
Georgia until “illegal embassies” are removed from the
breakaway regions of  South Ossetia  and Abkhazia.  Russia routed Georgia’s army in an August 2008 war over
South Ossetia, before recognizing its independence and agreeing
to defend its borders. Georgia considers South Ossetia and
Abkhazia part of its territory.  Georgia’s $11.6 billion economy grew a preliminary 7
percent in 2011, the statistics office said last month.  Gross
domestic product  rose 8.8 percent from a year earlier in the
fourth quarter.  Georgia was ranked as the world’s third-fastest growing
tourist destination last year with a 39 percent increase in
international arrivals, according to a March report published by
the World Tourism Barometer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  