-- German Factory Orders Increased Less Than Forecast in February
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-04-04T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/german-factory-orders-increased-less-than-forecast-in-february.html
German factory orders increased less
than economists forecast in February as countries outside the
euro region barely offset a drop in European demand.  Orders (GRIORTMM) , adjusted for seasonal swings and inflation,
increased 0.3 percent from January, when they fell a revised 1.8
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
forecast a gain of 1.5 percent, according to the median of 35
estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . From a year ago, orders
dropped 6.1 percent when adjusted for work days.  Germany ’s economy,  Europe ’s largest, is showing signs of
regaining some strength after shrinking in the fourth quarter as
unemployment at a two-decade low encourages consumer demand.
Business and  investor sentiment  rose last month after  Greece 
received a second bailout and the  European Central Bank  pumped
more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) into the banking
system to counter the region’s fiscal crisis.  “A lot has improved in the sovereign debt crisis in terms
of confidence,” said  Aline Schuiling , an economist at  ABN Amro 
in Amsterdam. “At the same time, the impact of the crisis is
still with us and growth in Germany will have been flat in the
first quarter.”  Orders from the euro area fell 3.2 percent in February and
domestic orders decreased 1.4 percent, today’s report showed.
Orders from outside the 17-nation currency bloc jumped 5 percent
after a 7.6 percent decline the previous month. The ministry
revised January’s drop in overall orders from 2.7 percent.  ‘Stable Development’  While domestic orders and those from non-euro states “show
a stable development,” the currency region “continues to give
negative impulses,” the ministry said. Industrial production
remains “burdened,” it said.  The euro-area economy  contracted  in the fourth quarter as
governments in crisis-stricken countries slashed spending in a
bid to regain market confidence in the sustainability of their
finances. While the euro economy will contract 0.3 percent this
year, German gross domestic product may increase 0.6 percent,
according to the European Commission.  Adding to signs of stabilization after an economic
contraction of 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter, unemployment
dropped to 6.7 percent in March from 6.8 percent in the previous
month. German  business confidence  rose to an eight-month high in
March and exports increased in January.  German Stocks  German stocks  had their best start to a year relative to
the U.S. since 2006 as investors bet German companies will
benefit most from improving global growth. The  DAX index  has
gained 16.4 percent.  “There’s no reason to assume exports will slump and
domestic demand should drive growth,” said Ulrike Rondorf, an
economist at  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  in  Frankfurt . Still, “the
underlying pace of factory orders is still relatively weak.”  Schaeffler AG, the world’s second-biggest maker of roller
bearings, on March 20 forecast slower sales growth and
profitability in 2012, partly because of weaker European demand.  “We are currently seeing demand in the European markets
weaken,” Chief Executive Officer Juergen Geissinger said in a
statement on that day. “Globally, however, our business is
continuing to show a positive trend.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  