-- GM CEO Seeks to Boost Volt’s Monthly Sales to 3,000
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-04-04T20:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/gm-ceo-seeks-to-boost-volt-s-monthly-sales-to-3-000.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , resuming
Chevrolet Volt production a week earlier than planned, seeks to
boost sales of the $39,000 electric car more than 30 percent in
coming months.  U.S. sales of the Volt rose to 2,289 in March, beating the
model’s previous best month in December when 1,529 cars were
delivered. Sales fell from that high as the Volt underwent a
congressional hearing after a federal safety investigation.  “It seems like we’ve sustained ourselves through this
difficult period,” Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson said in
an interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “A Closer Look With Arthur
Levitt” scheduled to air in May. “We hope to get up to 3,000-
plus in the coming months and are certainly positioning it.”
Akerson, 63, spoke yesterday.  Volt sales were hurt after a U.S. investigation into the
safety of the car was announced in November, GM executives have
said. The  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration  closed
the probe in January, saying the Volt or other electric vehicles
pose no more of a fire risk than other cars. The Volt figures
into political debates whether the U.S. should have bailed out
GM in 2009. The U.S. still owns  32 percent  of GM.  Production on the Volt will resume April 16 at the
automaker’s Detroit-Hamtramck assembly plant, Chris Lee, a GM
spokesman, said today in an e-mail. The Detroit-based automaker
had planned to halt production from March 19 through April 23.  Increased Sales  “Employees are being called back one week earlier than
previously announced due to increased Volt sales since January
and the need to meet demand in our strong markets, including
 California ,” Lee said.  GM announced its plans to halt production in early March
after selling 1,023 Volts in February and 603 in January, below
the rate needed to meet Akerson’s goal of 45,000 deliveries in
the U.S. this year.  Customers are returning to Chevrolet dealerships to get the
Volt after GM addressed earlier safety concerns,  Mark Reuss ,
president of GM North America, told Bloomberg Television today.  “The car is now becoming well known, people are beginning
to understand how the car works,” Reuss said in an interview on
“InsideTrack.” “We’re matching production with demand.”  Separately, in an interview at the New York auto show,
Reuss said GM hasn’t extended plans for summer downtime for the
Volt production. “Production is really agile, so we can do
anything we want there,” he said.  Lease Offers  GM fell 1.7 percent to $25.10 at the close in  New York .  GM has said it will improve the structure and battery-
coolant system of the Volt to protect it better against fire
after crashes. The automaker started a Volt marketing campaign
in January. GM said it planned a modified version of the car in
California that permits solo drivers to use carpool lanes.  Also in January, GM returned to the same lease offers it
had when originally introducing the vehicle, Alan Batey, vice
president of Chevrolet U.S. sales, said.  In March, GM sold 2,129 Volts to retail customers and 160
to fleet customers, Batey said yesterday during a conference
call. Volt has a starting price of $39,145, not include a tax
credit of $7,500, GM’s website said. The automaker is
advertising monthly lease prices as low as $349 for 36 months.  “We’re doing well on the purchase side and the lease
side,” Batey said. The automaker has 61 days’ supply of Volt,
he said.  Dealer ‘Reticence’  The Volt can travel more than 30 miles (48 kilometers) on
electric power before a gasoline engine powers the car.  The production halt allowed GM to clear away inventory of
older Volts to make way for cars made with the changes for the
California market and to the battery, said Alan Baum, principal
of Baum & Associates, a provider of auto-industry analysis in
West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  “There was some reticence of some of the dealers around
the country to be ordering the Volt when it was viewed as
negatively as it was,” he said. GM is “hoping between the PR
campaign and last month’s sales” that it can “sell the
vehicles they are building.”  Arthur Levitt  is a member of the board of Bloomberg LP, the
parent of Bloomberg News.  With assistance from Jamie Butters in  New York City .
Editors: Bill Koenig, John Lear  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  