-- GM Targets New Impala at Retail Customers Not Rental Companies
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/gm-targets-new-impala-at-retail-customers-not-rental-companies.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  wants to attract
a different kind of buyer with the redesigned Chevrolet Impala:
retail customers.  More than 70 percent of Impalas in the U.S. were sold to
government or corporate fleets, including car-rental companies.
Those are often bulk sales at discounted prices. That’s
something GM wants to change with new styling and improved fuel
efficiency as the automaker works to revive a nameplate that
dates to the late 1950s.  “There’s no doubt this is going to play a different role
in the Chevrolet lineup than it has,” Chris Perry, vice
president for the brand’s global marketing and strategy, told
reporters last week in advance of the New York auto show, where
the car is slated to be shown today. It will arrive in U.S.
showrooms in the first half of next year, he said.  The upper-midsize segment, fueled largely by fleet buyers,
reached 1.6 million in 2000 with 15 different models before
falling to 412,000 last year with seven entries as customers’
tastes changed to sport-utility vehicles or more fuel-efficient
smaller cars, said  Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst with
IHS Automotive.  “This segment definitely has declined in recent years but
there is still a very loyal buyer for this type of vehicle,”
she said in a telephone interview.  U.S. sales of the Impala fell 0.4 percent last year to
171,434, according to researcher Autodata Corp. The best year
for the Impala was 1965 when more than 1 million were sold,
Detroit-based GM said.  Fleet Versus Retail  Sales to fleet customers made up 71 percent of Impala’s
U.S. deliveries last year, according to  Santa Monica ,
California-based TrueCar.com. That’s nearly twice the industry
average of about 40 percent for the same market segment, said
 Jesse Toprak , a TrueCar analyst.  “Generally speaking, everything else being equal, retail
is more profitable than fleet,” he said.  IHS estimates sales of the new Impala will fall to about
95,000 in the U.S. in 2014 as GM cuts back on low-profit fleet
sales, Lindland said.  “Part of that logic and philosophy is that in order to be
competitive in this segment, you can’t have it dominate by
fleet,” she said.  Perry declined to provide targets for Impala.  “We’re not establishing any aggressive sales goals,” he
said. “We’re going to build to demand.”  ‘New Flagship’  Last redesigned in 2005, the Impala will be “truly a new
flagship” for  Chevrolet , Perry said. All of the brand’s other
cars have been updated in the last 24 months, he said.  The Impala will have three powertrain options, including a
2.4-liter engine with GM’s fuel-saving eAssist system that uses
an electric motor to help power the wheels in certain
conditions. GM said that version of the Impala should get 35
miles (56 kilometers) per gallon on the highway.  “It’s just a larger more, refined ride than the Malibu,”
Perry said. “Sometimes people want a little bit more, a little
bit more space, a little bit more firmness on the road and
that’s what this Impala is going to be able to deliver.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Southfield, Michigan at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  