-- Goldman Sachs Names Three to Lead Credit Sales, Trading
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-04-04T18:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/goldman-sachs-names-three-to-lead-credit-sales-and-trading-units.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  named Bryan Mix global head of loan trading, and Jonathan Meltzer and John Shaffer, co-heads of New York credit sales, following changes to
the bank’s leveraged finance group.  Mix, who is based in  London , previously ran the  Asia  credit
business, according to  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for the New
York-based firm. Meltzer was previously head of bank loan sales
in New York and Shaffer was head of high-yield and distressed
distribution groups in New York, said DuVally.  The changes at the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets come
after the firm began restricting people working in the loan
sales and trading business from receiving private information,
such as corporate financial projections. Credit Suisse Group AG
and  Bank of America Corp.  have taken similar steps to block
private information reaching loan traders about companies that
have both bank debt and sell publicly listed high-yield bonds.
The move allows them to sell both types of credits.  “We have been discussing for some time the transition of
the loan business from behind the wall to the public side with
the rest of the leveraged finance business,” Justin Gmelich,
global head of credit trading in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “We thought we could serve our clients better with
an integrated trading model.” Gmelich was named to this role
last month.  Leveraged loans, those rated below BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s  and less than Baa3 at Moody’s Investors Service, are
usually private and investors in this debt can have access to
material non-public information that buyers of high-yield bonds
can’t.  Private to Public  Goldman Sachs joins other banks that have moved their loan
traders to the public side.  Bank of America  and  RBC Capital
Markets  combined their loan sales forces in 2011 to make one
point of contact for both new-issue and secondary sales. In
limited situations, when a company just has loans, salesmen may
see private information.  At RBC, under the new structure, every salesmen will market
loans, high-yield and distressed debt for primary and secondary
markets. Credit Suisse’s U.S. loan sales and trading group also
will no longer receive private information on borrowers that
have both bank debt and public securities.  Banks are moving their loan sales and trading operations to
the public side as collateralized loan obligations, which
usually only buy this debt, are losing their market share to
other investors.  Shifting Buyer Base  Hedge funds  and high-yield bond investors, who in 2007
represented only 27 percent of loan buyers, made up 40 percent
of the base in the third quarter of last year, according to the
Loan Syndications and Trading Association. The market share of
CLOs shrank to 38 percent from 57 percent in the same time
period, the New York-based trade group said.  “The decision to convert our bank loan business from
private to public was largely predicated on the fact that the
majority of our clients prefer access to a fully integrated
leverage finance business,” Thomas Cornacchia, Goldman Sachs
head of sales for fixed income, currencies and commodities in
the Americas, said in a telephone interview.  There will still be a leveraged loan sales team, a high-
yield sales group and a distressed credit desk, all of which
make up the leveraged finance business. Some team members will
cover clients that buy both loans and bonds.  In their new role Meltzer and Shaffer will oversee sales
for investment-grade credits, leveraged finance, structured
products, the credit products group and municipal bonds. They
will both report to Cornacchia. Mix will report to Gmelich and
 Simon Morris , who heads credit trading in  Europe  and Asia.  2011 Departures  The changes at Goldman Sachs come after Courtney Mather,
head of U.S. loan trading, Blake W. Mather, who ran bank loan
sales, and Buckley T. Ratchford, head of global bank loan
trading and distressed investing, left the firm last year.  The credit sales team will also see additional departures
as Cynthia A. “Cindy” Brower and Wendy E. Sacks have also
announced they are leaving. They both sold loans and distressed
debt for the lender.  Goldman Sachs held $19.75 billion of loans and bridge debt
as of Dec. 31, up from $18.04 billion a year earlier, according
to an annual filing. The company said those credits were held
“in connection with our origination, investing and market-
making activities” and didn’t break out how much was held for
each purpose.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in  New York  at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  