-- Google CEO Page Sees Progress in Social Networking Efforts
-- B y   B r a d   S t o n e   a n d   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-04T13:30:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/google-ceo-page-sees-progress-in-social-networking-efforts.html
Google Inc. (GOOGL) ’s new social-networking
service is surpassing predictions, helping the company make up
for its earlier lack of focus on helping people make online
connections, Chief Executive Officer  Larry Page  said.  “I’m very happy with the growth of the core Google+
network,” Page said in an interview with Bloomberg
Businessweek. “It doesn’t mean tomorrow it’s going to be bigger
than any other social network out there. That’s not realistic.
But it’s growing faster, I think, than other services have.”  Google, the leading Web-search provider, is playing catch-
up with  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which has more than 845 million users
versus more than 100 million for Google+. U.S. users spent
an average 3.3 minutes on Google’s social network in January,
compared with 7 1/2 hours for Facebook, according to  ComScore 
Inc. Page said his company’s early focus on Web search came at
the expense of helping people socialize.  “Obviously, our mission was organizing the world’s
information and making it universally accessible and useful,”
Page said. “I think we probably missed more of the people part
of that than we should have.”  Reflecting on his first year as CEO after succeeding  Eric
Schmidt , Page acknowledged other challenges Google is facing in
social networking.  Google said in January it would weave information from
Google+ into some users’ search queries. The changes sparked a
backlash from privacy groups and competitors that said the
inclusion unfairly promotes Google’s products over other online
information. The U.S. Federal Trade Commission widened a probe
of the company to ask whether the practices thwart competition,
people with knowledge of the matter said at the time.  ‘More Access’ Wanted  Page said “being able to see things that are relevant to
you because friends shared them” can be “really useful.”  He also said he’d welcome incorporating social information
from other companies, without naming any.  “I always like to have more access to data from other
folks, but I’m not in control of that,” Page said. “I can’t
cause a third party to put their data into Google.”  Turning to Google’s ties with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Page took issue
with how the relationship was presented in “ Steve Jobs ,” the
biography of the late Apple co-founder published last year.  Jobs threatened to wage “thermonuclear war” on Google’s
Android operating system, saying that its features amounted to
“grand theft” of Apple’s intellectual property, according to
the book, written by Walter Isaacson.  “I’m going to destroy Android, because it’s a stolen
product,” Jobs said.  Differences ‘For Show’  “I think the Android differences were actually for show,”
Page said in the interview with Bloomberg Businessweek.  Page also had a different recollection of a meeting he had
with Jobs last year. According to the biography, Page sought the
meeting soon after he was named CEO. Jobs told Isaacson that his
first impulse was to refuse the request amid dismay over
Google’s foray into smartphones, a market Apple entered in 2007
with the iPhone.  Page said it was Jobs who sought the get-together.  “Actually he requested that meeting,” Page said. “He
sent me an e-mail and said, ‘Hey, you want to get together and
chat?’”  The conversation included discussions on management, Page
said.  “He had a lot of interesting insights about how to run a
company, and that was pretty much what we discussed,” Page
said.  Page also lamented what he said is a growing tendency among
technology companies to sue each other over intellectual
property. Technology providers are expending resources
squabbling over patents at the expense of innovation, Page said.  “The general trend of the industry towards being a lot
more litigious somehow has just been -- it has been a sad
thing,” he said. “There is a lot of money going to lawyers and
things, instead of building great products for users.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brad Stone in  San Francisco  at 
 bstone12@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  