-- Groupon IPO Scandal Is the Sleaze That’s Legal
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-04-04T23:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/groupon-ipo-scandal-is-the-sleaze-that-s-legal.html
Here’s an unsettling fact for anyone
thinking of ever buying shares in a newly public company: Even
if its executives know their internal accounting systems are a
wreck, they aren’t required to disclose this until after the
company goes public.  It is a lesson that  Groupon Inc. (GRPN)  shareholders have learned
the hard way. Groupon shares fell 17 percent on Monday, after
the online coupon company said late last week that it had
identified a “material weakness” in its internal controls over
financial reporting, as of Dec. 31. The Chicago-based company
also  revised  its fourth-quarter results to show lower revenue
and a larger loss, after finding errors in its accounting for
customer refunds. At $14.54, the  stock  now sells for 44 percent
less than it did after the first day of trading.  Given that Groupon went public only last November, the
latest news raises the question: Didn’t Groupon know before its
initial public offering that its controls were weak? A company
spokesman, Paul Taaffe, declined to comment. Let’s assume for
the moment, though, that its executives did know. Even then,
they wouldn’t have had to tell investors beforehand.  That’s because there is no requirement to disclose a
control weakness in a company’s IPO prospectus. Groupon would
have had no obligation to disclose the problem until it filed
its first quarterly or annual report as a public company --
which is what it did. Sandbagging IPO investors in this manner
is perfectly legal, it turns out.  Sox Hole  The reason lies with a gaping hole in the  Sarbanes-Oxley
Act , which Congress passed in 2002 in response to the accounting
scandals at Enron Corp. and WorldCom Inc. That statute had two
main sections related to companies’ internal controls, which are
the systems and processes that companies are supposed to have in
place to ensure the information they report is accurate. Those
provisions apply only to companies that are public already, not
ones that have registered for IPOs.  One section, called  302 , requires public companies’ top
executives to evaluate each quarter whether their disclosure
controls and procedures are effective. The other section, known
as  404 , is better known. It requires public companies in their
annual reports to include assessments by management and outside
auditors about the effectiveness of their internal controls over
financial reporting. Congress left it to the Securities and
Exchange Commission to write the rules implementing those
provisions.  Here’s where it gets tricky. Groupon  reported the weakness 
in its financial-reporting controls through a Section 302
disclosure, not a Section 404 report. In other words, the
problem was serious enough that it amounted to a shortcoming in
the company’s overall disclosure controls.  Groupon won’t have to comply with Section 404’s
requirements until its second annual report, due next year,
under an  exemption  the SEC passed in 2006 for newly public
companies. Likewise, Groupon’s auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, to
date has expressed no opinion on the company’s internal controls
in its  audit reports .  Groupon’s IPO prospectus  cautioned  that future disclosures
about control weaknesses were possible. It also said the company
had only “recently filled a number of positions in our senior
management and finance and accounting staff.” However, the
prospectus made no representation about whether Groupon’s
controls were effective at the time. None was required.  An SEC spokeswoman, Judith Burns, confirmed: “There is no
requirement to disclose a material weakness in the prospectus.”
She was speaking broadly, not about any specific company.  Perfect Call  Give credit where it’s due: Two writers who made the
perfect call on Groupon are  Anthony Catanach , an accounting
professor at Villanova University, and Edward Ketz, an
accounting professor at  Pennsylvania State University .  “It is absolutely ludicrous to think that Groupon is
anywhere close to having an effective set of internal controls
over financial reporting, having done 17 acquisitions in a
little over a year,” the pair wrote in an Aug. 24  article  on
their blog,  Grumpy Old Accountants . “When a company expands to
45 countries, grows merchants from 212 to 78,466, and expands
its employee base from 37 to 9,625 in only two years, there is
little doubt that internal controls are not working somewhere.”  Even before going public, Groupon restated its financial
reports in September to correct errors in the way it reported
revenue, which slashed 2010 sales to $312.9 million from $713.4
million. That alone should have flagged to investors that
Groupon’s controls were lacking. Nonetheless, the stock market
this week acted like it was surprised.  The debacle at Groupon understandably has drawn  comparisons 
with the new securities legislation that President  Barack Obama 
is scheduled to sign into law today. The  act  lets newly public
companies go five years without providing internal-control
reports by outside auditors, as long as annual revenue is less
than $1 billion. (Groupon reported 2011 revenue of $1.6
billion.) The change comes after the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010
permanently exempted companies with less than $75 million of
freely tradable shares from meeting this requirement -- which
means most U.S. public companies.  The new law will reduce disclosure obligations in many
other ways. Pre-IPO correspondence between companies and the
SEC’s staff initially would be stamped secret, for example. The
act is a lurch in the opposite direction of what is needed.  Let’s not fool ourselves, though. The existing protections
for IPO investors were feeble before the new law. That Groupon
could stay mum for so long about any control weaknesses it had,
legally, is merely the latest evidence. There is only one
solution for investors who aren’t insiders: Don’t ever buy stock
in a company that just went public.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on austerity in  Spain  and
the Muslim Brotherhood’s  political rise ;  Ezra Klein  on worrying
about  the deficit ;  Caroline Baum  on  scapegoating oil companies ;
 Susan Antilla  on the  JOBS Act ; and Rowan Jacobsen on  atrocities
in Myanmar .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  