-- IBM Facing Golf Gender Bias After Fighting Racial Barriers
-- B y   B e t h   J i n k s   a n d   J o h n   H e l y a r
-- 2012-04-04T15:48:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ibm-joins-golf-s-masters-facing-questions-on-ceo-s-club-access.html
Twenty-two years ago,  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  used its clout to protest racial
discrimination. The company joined other corporate sponsors in
pulling  television advertising  from the  PGA Championship  which
was being played at a whites-only  Alabama  golf club.  The  Shoal Creek  club caved.  Augusta National Golf Club 
followed, also inviting its first black member to join in 1990.  Now IBM faces pressure closer to home over Augusta
National’s policy against admitting female members, including
its new Chief Executive Officer Virginia “Ginni” Rometty. IBM
is one of three corporate sponsors of the Masters Tournament,
scheduled to begin tomorrow at the club.  The company’s CEO traditionally dons the club’s signature
green member blazer at the tournament, as do the CEOs of co-
sponsors  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  AT&T Inc. (T)  IBM will have to decide
whether to keep spending the money if its CEO lacks equal status
with other sponsors.  “The corporate dollars and the corporate decisions to be
associated with something that’s known as discriminatory” opens
sponsors to scrutiny, said Mike Paul, president of MGP &
Associates, a New York-based reputation management firm.  Augusta National’s Chairman Billy Payne, who’s in charge of
the club and tournament, faced the media today for his annual
Masters-eve address and reiterated the club’s policy.  Tournament Sponsorship  “All issues of membership remain the private deliberations
of the membership. That statement remains accurate,” Payne said
in response to questions about reconsidering female membership.
“We don’t talk about our private deliberations. We especially
don’t talk about them when a named candidate is part of the
question.”  That leaves IBM, which promoted Rometty to CEO in January,
with a dilemma: Should it pressure the near 80-year-old club to
change its gender policies or, if it can’t do that, should it
withdraw its tournament sponsorship?  This needs to be resolved in a way that satisfies
stakeholders including customers, employees, shareholders and
board members, said  David Carter , executive director of the
Sports Business Institute of the  University of Southern
California .  “Each of these sponsors that’s come on board did so
knowing the policies and protocols of that tournament and of
that club,” said Carter. “They’ve seen Augusta protect its
brand, its reputation, its policies and standards without
wavering for a very long time.”  ‘Great Showcase’  Corporate sponsors must weigh whether potentially
alienating customers and others outweighs the advantages of
being part of such a prominent sports event, said  Jim Andrews ,
senior vice president of IEG LLC, a Chicago firm that does
consulting and research on corporate sponsorships.  “The Masters is a great place for IBM to do corporate
hospitality and it’s a great showcase for its technology, but
are you running a risk of offending a number of your customers,
especially now that more women are in CIO and CTO roles? It’s a
tough equation,” said Andrews.  Edward Barbini, a spokesman for Armonk, New York-based IBM,
declined to comment.  Alan Jeffers , a spokesman for Exxon, didn’t
respond.  Brad Burns , an AT&T spokesman declined to comment on
the company’s sponsorship.  Television Commercials  IBM and other companies in the past pressured private  golf
clubs  to end racial discrimination. In 1990, IBM joined other
corporate sponsors including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor
Co. (7267)  in pulling TV ads from the  PGA Championship  when that year’s
tournament was played at the then whites-only Shoal Creek,
outside of Birmingham, Alabama.  Augusta National subsequently ended its racial barrier. The
club in 1990 extended an invitation to its first black member,
 Gannett Co. (GCI)  television President Ron Townsend.  IBM’s Rometty, who plays golf, though not frequently,
inherited the Masters Tournament sponsorship from her
predecessor  Sam Palmisano .  The company is featured in the tournament’s television
commercials and runs its website, mobile-phone applications and
media-center technology. Palmisano serves on Augusta’s
technology tournament committee. He remains IBM’s chairman -- a
role Rometty is likely also to assume upon his retirement.  ‘Free Speech Zone’  Augusta National doesn’t publicize its membership. A 2010
partial list obtained by Bloomberg News and 2004 documents
published by the Augusta Chronicle and USA Today suggest the
club doesn’t always extend invitations just as new CEOs take
over, raising the possibility that Rometty would be admitted
later.  Non-members of Augusta National must be accompanied by a
member to visit the course or play a round.  Augusta has faced pressure to change its policy on women
before. Martha Burk, then the president of the National Council
of Women’s Organizations, led a protest outside the golf
course’s gates during the 2003 Masters. The controversy prompted
Augusta to forgo sponsorship that year and the next -- opting to
broadcast without lucrative commercials.  The 2003 protesters were almost outnumbered by golf
reporters and corralled in a “free speech zone,” a place
“which was basically a ditch where no one could see you,” said
 Terry O’Neill , who is today president of the National
Organization for Women and participated alongside Burk.  “IBM obviously is spending enormous amounts of money
promoting itself by promoting the  Masters Tournament  at the
Augusta golf club and their own CEO is being thoroughly
disrespected by the very people that they’re promoting,” said
O’Neill. “It’s ridiculously embarrassing to IBM.”  ‘Fascinating Collision’  The company and Augusta National have an opportunity at the
start of this Masters Tournament to “gracefully” end a male-
only tradition, said Hayes Roth, chief marketing officer for
 Landor Associates , a global branding and design firm.  “It’s a fascinating collision of IBM, one of the most
sophisticated and advanced organizations in the world, and
Augusta, one of the most anachronistic,” said Roth. “It’s a
huge opportunity for both organizations if they seize the high
ground on it. But telling Augusta people what to do is tough.”  Any resolution will likely be dealt with privately,
consultants including Roth said. IBM probably has sponsorship
commitments that cannot be withdrawn in a hurry.  “Rometty has a business to run. She is not going to go out
and make this a personal cause,” said Roth. Still, her
leadership “may influence how they participate next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net ;
John Helyar in Atlanta  at 
 jhelyar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  