-- IBM Buys 20% of Batista’s SIX Unit, Gets $1 Billion Contract
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-04-04T21:36:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ibm-buys-20-of-batista-s-six-unit-gets-1-billion-contract-1-.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider, bought a
20 percent stake in the technology unit of Brazilian billionaire
 Eike Batista  as it expands to emerging markets.  IBM, as the Armonk, New York-based company is known, and
Batista’s SIX Automacao unit will set up a technology center to
serve customers in Brazil, Chile, Colombia and Peru, EBX Group
Co., the holding company for most of Batista’s assets, said
today in an e-mailed statement. IBM was also awarded a $1
billion contract to provide technology services to EBX for 10
years, it said.  “IBM will contribute smarter industry solutions, providing
new products, software and services that complement SIX,” the
company said, without disclosing the stake’s purchase price.  IBM Chief Executive Officer Virginia Rometty, who in
January became the first female CEO in the company’s 100-year
history, is pushing a five-year plan focusing on programs to
help businesses analyze and project trends, as well as in so-
called cloud computing. IBM has said it will boost its growth
markets unit, which includes faster growing economies like
 Brazil , to 30 percent of sales by 2015.  Batista, Brazil’s richest person, is raising money to
develop his oil and mining businesses in Brazil and diversify
from commodities. The IBM agreement is Batista’s second deal in
10 days after an accord to sell a $2 billion stake in EBX to Abu
Dhabi’s Mubadala Development Co.  IBM  dropped  1.7 percent to $206.05 at the close in  New York 
today, the lowest since March 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  