-- Michigan Court Cancels Bar on Detroit Review Meeting
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-04-04T19:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/michigan-court-cancels-bar-on-detroit-review-meeting.html
A  Michigan  appeals court canceled a
judge’s order barring a Detroit financial review team from
meeting to discuss the city’s fiscal crisis.  Judge  Joyce Draganchuk  of Ingham County Circuit Court this
week issued a temporary restraining order stopping the team from
meeting after union official  Robert Davis  claimed the review
board’s term of office expired last month. The team canceled a
scheduled meeting yesterday.  Michigan’s Court of Appeals today reversed Draganchuk’s
decision and ordered her to dismiss the lawsuit, finding there
were no time restrictions on the review team’s authority or
actions. Davis can’t seek to block the review team from
negotiating an agreement to resolve the crisis, the court said.  Michigan law “provides a review team with authority to
negotiate and sign a consent agreement with the chief
administrative officer of the relevant local government with no
set time limit on the exercise of that authority,” the appeals
court said in a one-page order.  Andrew Paterson, Davis’s attorney, said he hasn’t
determined whether to appeal the order. “We are considering the
options available to us,” he said in an e-mail.  The Ingham County suit is one of three pending court
challenges to the  Detroit  financial review process brought by
union officials as the city weighs a state plan to resolve the
crisis. Michigan Governor  Rick Snyder  has proposed empowering a
new board to oversee spending cuts and reforms, and force
concessions on municipal unions to erase a deficit approaching
$270 million.  Municipal Workers  In a second lawsuit, a federal judge in Detroit is
considering a request from a coalition of municipal workers’
unions for a restraining order blocking state officials and the
city from entering into an agreement over Detroit’s fiscal
crisis.  The coalition of non-public-safety unions sued Snyder,
Michigan Treasurer Andy Dillon and the city on March 30,
alleging that the governor’s proposed plan would violate
workers’ rights to bargain collectively and void a previous set
of concessions they made to reduce city costs.  U.S. District Judge Arthur J. Tarnow said at a hearing
yesterday that he would rule on the request by April 9.  Business in Private  Davis, in a separate suit, previously claimed the review
team was breaking Michigan’s open-meetings law by conducting
business in private. Ingham County Circuit Court Judge William Collette ruled the team had to hold public meetings. His
separate order last month barring the review team from entering
into an agreement was reversed by the Michigan Court of Appeals.  Davis asked the  Michigan Supreme Court (313512L)  to review that
reversal. His request is pending.  The governor appointed the team in December after a
preliminary study found the city was in “probable financial
stress.” It’s considering whether Detroit, Michigan’s largest
city, needs an emergency manager.  Detroit, the home of  General Motors Co. (GM) , the world’s
largest automaker, may have a $270 million deficit by the end of
June, according to a city council report in February.  Dillon said Detroit’s cash will run out in May. Detroit and
Snyder have until tomorrow to agree to a recovery proposal, or
the governor can name an emergency manager with sweeping powers
over municipal finances and operations.  ‘Financial Crisis’  “The City of Detroit is facing the most significant
financial crisis in its history,” Michigan Attorney General
Bill Schuette said in his appeal of Draganchuk’s state court
order. The city has “only $1 in assets for every $33 in
liabilities,” he said.  Schuette had asked the appeals court to put Draganchuk’s
order on hold or reverse it. The decision barring further
review-team meetings “effectively” gave Governor Snyder only
two options -- “appoint an emergency manager or do nothing,”
Schuette said in the 10-page appeal. Draganchuk “fundamentally
misunderstands” the effect of her order, he said.  The unions said in their lawsuit in federal court in
Detroit that city workers would “suffer irreparable harm if
there is no immediate injunction” barring execution of the
financial stability agreement.  Under the proposed agreement with the state, the “city
will be forced to frustrate the collective bargaining rights of
the coalition unions and their membership,” the unions said in
the lawsuit.  June Expiration  “After the June 30, 2012, expiration of many of the
bargaining agreements, the coalition membership will become
near-at-will employees (save the Detroit civil service system
and Michigan’s black letter contract law) with no contractual
right to continued wages and benefits,” the unions said.  The proposed state plan would interfere with the unions’
contracts with the city,  Richard Mack , a union lawyer, told
Tarnow at a hearing yesterday. “The state is inserting itself
where it has no right to insert itself,” he said.  “Interference is not illegal,” Tarnow said. “What did
they do that was wrong?” he asked.  The harm to the city and the public would be greater “than
any harm plaintiffs would suffer if their request for an
injunction is denied,” the attorney general said in court
papers. “The fiscal instability of the state’s largest city
that could result from issuance of a preliminary injunction does
not and cannot serve public interest.”  Collective-bargaining agreements by public employees can be
“rejected, modified, or terminated” under the local government
and school district fiscal accountability act, lawyers for the
state said in a filing today. “State law does not create a
property right in collective bargaining that is protected under
either the federal or state due process clause.”  The Ingham County lawsuit is Davis v. Detroit Financial
Review Team, 12-315-CZ, Circuit Court, Ingham County, Michigan.
The federal case is Valenti v. Snyder, 12-cv-11461, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  