-- Tiger Woods’s Win Fuels Record-Setting Golf Wagering at Masters
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-04-04T14:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/tiger-woods-s-win-fuels-record-setting-golf-wagering-at-masters.html
Tiger Woods  is fueling record-
setting wagering on golf’s  Masters Tournament  at  Las Vegas 
sports books, where many bettors are convinced the former No. 1
ranked player in the world has regained the form that helped him
win 14 major titles.  Woods enters the Masters as the 9-2 favorite after his last
start, two weeks ago in  Orlando , yielded his first U.S.  PGA Tour 
win in 2 1/2 years. The longest winless drought of his career
was marked by revelations of infidelity and the breakup of his
marriage, the loss of sponsors, the firing of his former caddie,
an overhaul of his swing accompanied by a change in coaches, and
the emergence of players such as Rory McIlroy,  Luke Donald  and
 Lee Westwood , who all have held the No. 1 ranking.  With the victory, Woods’s return to relevance has led to a
surge in interest among bettors as the season’s first major
championship starts tomorrow at Augusta National Golf Club in
Augusta, Georgia.  “It looks like it’s going to be a record-breaking
Masters,” Jimmy Vaccaro, the director of sports operations at
Lucky’s Race and Sports Book in Las Vegas, said in a telephone
interview. “This kid has conjured up a lot of attention in the
past 2 1/2 weeks. We lose right now if Tiger wins, I’ll tell you
that.”  Jeff Sherman , the golf oddsmaker at the Las Vegas Hotel &
Casino’s sports book, said betting on the Masters has climbed
“into six figures” for the first time in his 18-year tenure.  “Wagering levels are at an all-time record,” Sherman
said. “Tiger is accounting for about 10 percent of wagering
tickets and 20 percent of wagering handle.”  None of the books would reveal this year’s expected handle
or the record handle for Masters betting.  Pre-Scandal Woods  It’s a return to Woods’s pre-scandal days, when he was
winning tournaments and heavy betting interest made him a
significant favorite every time he teed off. The odds on Woods,
36, mean a winning $100 wager on him would return $450 plus the
initial stake. McIlroy, the reigning  U.S. Open  champion from
 Northern Ireland , is the second choice at 11-2, followed by
three-time Masters winner  Phil Mickelson  at 12-1.  “Is the old Tiger back? I don’t know, but the bettors
think he is,” Johnny Avello, director of race and sports
operations at the Wynn Las Vegas, said in a telephone interview.
“The old Tiger odds are back again.”  Last year was the first time since 1999 that Woods wasn’t
the pre-tournament favorite at the Masters.  Donald, an Englishman who is the current No. 1-ranked
player in the world, is the fourth betting choice at 15-1,
according to the LVH sports book. Donald has yet to win one of
the sport’s four major championships.  ‘Decent Number’  “I’m still a decent number in the bookies, aren’t I?”
Donald said yesterday at a news conference when asked about
expectations that the tournament may come down to Woods and
McIlroy. “I don’t know if I’ve been written off yet.”  Westwood, also from  England , has 20-1 odds, with
 Australia ’s  Adam Scott  and  Hunter Mahan , who won last week’s
Houston Open to become the top-ranked American in the world at
No. 4, at 25-1. Woods is ranked seventh, after being as a low as
58th in November 2011.  Woods has won four career Masters titles, most recently in
2005, and he hasn’t won a major title since the 2008 U.S. Open.
Woods said he’s ready to move closer to  Jack Nicklaus ’s record
of 18 majors.  “Everything is headed in the right direction at the right
time,” said Woods, who is grouped with Miguel Angel Jimenez and
Sang-Moon Bae for the first two rounds.  NFL Levels  Vaccaro said the public interest in Woods has pushed
betting for the Masters on par with that of a Monday night
National Football League game, without giving specifics.  Proposition bets on Woods are popular, from whether he
makes the cut for weekend play to whether his opening-round
score is better or worse than 71. Vaccaro said that 70 percent
of the prop bets at Lucky’s are on Woods.  The betting limit for that type of wager is $1,000 and
Vaccaro said he’s seen a number of maximum tickets on Woods.  “It’s the Masters, people love the props and probably most
important, this kid is relevant again,” Vaccaro said.  The 22-year-old McIlroy, who blew a four-shot final-round
lead at last year’s Masters, said he “couldn’t care less” who
the bookmakers’ favorite is, while adding that he’s excited
Woods is healthy and playing well again.  “He creates excitement that no one else in the game can,”
McIlroy said. “A lot of people want to see him make history and
it looks like he’s back on track to maybe doing that.”  Woods’s return to past form would be a welcome one for the
bookmakers in Las Vegas.  “It certainly helps drive the handle up,” Avello said.
“When his prices are low, then there’s value in others. As long
as he continues to play well, it bodes well for us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta,  Georgia  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  