-- Indian Court Accepts State Appeal on Phone-Permit Cancellation
-- B y   P r a t a p   P a t n a i k   a n d   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l
-- 2012-04-04T18:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/indian-court-accepts-state-appeal-on-phone-permit-cancellation.html
India ’s Supreme Court accepted the
government’s appeal against a judgment that scrapped mobile-
phone licenses awarded in an allegedly corrupt sale, a move that
may allow companies to operate till a final decision.  The government in its review petition questioned the
court’s jurisdiction over policy matters and also sought time
till March next year for conducting fresh phone-license sales.
Judges G.S. Singhvi and K.S. Radhakrishnan will hear the
government’s argument on April 13, according to the order on the
court’s website yesterday.  The acceptance of the appeal may throw a lifeline to
companies such as  Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT)  and  Russia ’s
 AFK Sistema (AFKS) , said Madhu Narayan, a Supreme Court lawyer not
connected with the case. The companies’ permits were among the
122 canceled two months ago after the  Supreme Court  said the
sale was “flawed” and had been influenced by those with
“money power.” The cut-price permit sale in 2008 may have
lowered government revenue by $31 billion, according to a report
by India’s chief auditor.  Allowing the government’s appeal “is good for companies
that want to continue their operations in India,” said Narayan.
“If the court grants time till March 2013, it will help them to
participate in the auction and tie up with new partners.”  The cancellations meant operators had to close their
businesses within four months, which would affect 69 million
users. The court yesterday rejected appeals by seven individual
companies that had their permits rescinded, including  Telenor
ASA’s (TEL)  local partner  Unitech Ltd. (UT)   ‘Curative Petition’  “By entertaining the review petition and hearing the case
again, the Supreme Court would have been able to appreciate
arguments and evidence that challenges the very basis of its
order,” according to an e-mailed statement by Uninor, the joint
venture between Telenor and Unitech. “We are disappointed that
the court has declined to do so.”  The company said it will file a curative petition and ask
the court to keep its order in abeyance until a new bench hears
the case afresh.  The mobile-phone license scandal contributed to an 18-month
slowdown in policy making by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s
government. In local elections last month, Singh’s ruling
 Congress party  suffered heavy defeats as it was punished for
alleged corruption two years before a national election.  Former Telecommunications Minister  Andimuthu Raja ,
officials and business executives are charged with conspiring to
award permits to ineligible companies in the 2008 sale. All of
the accused have denied the charges.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratap Patnaik in  New Delhi  at 
 ppatnaik2@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Macaskill in New Delhi at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  