-- India’s Bonds Advance Most in Seven Weeks as Cash Shortage Eases
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-04-04T13:07:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/india-s-bonds-advance-most-in-seven-weeks-as-cash-shortage-eases.html
India ’s benchmark bonds advanced the
most in more than seven weeks as signs a cash shortage at banks
is easing spurred demand.  Yields on most-traded debt due 2021 retreated from a four-
month high as the overnight  borrowing rate  in the interbank
money market fell 1.25 percentage points to 7.5 percent,
matching the level on March 30 that was that lowest in almost
six months. Sovereign debt worth 260 billion rupees ($5.1
billion) will mature tomorrow, according to budget documents
released last month, boosting funds in the financial system.  “We see signs that liquidity is returning to the banking
system,” analysts at  Barclays Capital  including Singapore-based
Rohit Arora wrote in a note to clients today.  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 fell
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.69 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system.  The government is also due to repay 97 billion rupees of
treasury bills this week, according to Barclays. Banks borrowed
483 billion rupees from the  Reserve Bank  of India today to meet
fund shortages, the lowest amount since Nov. 4, according to
central bank data.  Earlier, yields touched the highest level since November on
concern the government’s record debt-sale program will damp
demand for existing notes.  Debt Auction  Primary dealers, who underwrite debt sales, had to buy 6.6
percent of the 180 billion rupees of securities offered at an
auction yesterday. The auction, the first for the fiscal year
that began April 1, was part of the finance ministry’s 5.7
trillion-rupee borrowing plan.  The possibility that domestic fuel prices will be raised is
also negative for debt, said  Anoop Verma , a Mumbai-based fixed-
income trader at Development Credit Bank. Brent crude prices
have jumped 16 percent this year to $124.29 a barrel, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  One-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative contracts used
to guard against fluctuations in funding costs, decreased four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 8.01 percent, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 