-- India Billions Secure Afghan Mines in Challenge to China Drive
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-04-04T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/india-billions-secure-afghan-mines-in-challenge-to-china-drive.html
An Indian security guard, cradling a
Kalashnikov assault rifle, shadowed two Indian engineers as they
inspected the concrete shell of the parliament building they are
constructing -- in the Afghan capital of Kabul.  Erecting the new seat of government is part of a push by
 India  to seek both profit and a greater strategic role in the
nearby country, where Taliban guerrillas battle the government
with support from within Pakistan, India’s arch-rival.  India, having spent $1.5 billion over a decade on Afghan
roads,  power lines , schools and the parliament, now is proposing
what may become  Afghanistan ’s biggest foreign investment: $11
billion to build an iron mine, steel mill and railroad.  “India is showing its commitment to an unprecedented
ambition and role in Afghanistan,” said  C. Raja Mohan , a senior
fellow at the independent Center for Policy Research in New
Delhi. “Stabilizing the northwest of the subcontinent,
Afghanistan and Pakistan, is absolutely India’s top foreign-
policy priority, because most of our threats come from there.”  India’s planned Afghan iron mine would help companies such
as  Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP)  and  Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd. (RINL)  by
giving them shares in an estimated 1.8 billion tons of ore, for
which global prices have more than doubled in the past three
years. Afghanistan may see its geographic and economic isolation
reduced as India follows  China  in promising money to build the
country’s first major railroads.  India Backs Karzai  As Afghan anger over the shooting of 16 civilians by an
American soldier last month increases calls for an accelerated
U.S. exit, India is seeking to position itself as a rival to
China in investment in Afghanistan and as an anti-Taliban force
to help the government of President  Hamid Karzai .  “Instability and radicalism in Afghanistan pose a threat
to our common security,” Indian Foreign Minister S.M. Krishna
said in a December speech at a conference in Bonn on
Afghanistan’s future.  “The Indian and Chinese investments will contribute to
Afghanistan’s stability” as the U.S. withdraws its main combat
forces between now and 2014, said Ali Jalali, a professor at the
U.S. National Defense University in  Washington  and a former
Afghan interior minister.  “They not only will bring jobs and infrastructure, but
these two powerful governments will have a greater direct
interest in seeing that all actors in Afghanistan behave
moderately,” Jalali said in an interview in  New Delhi .  Hajigak Iron Mine  India’s expanded role in Afghanistan is anchored in its
plan to mine  iron ore  from mountain ridges at Hajigak, 100
kilometers (60 miles) northwest of Kabul. India’s government
backed a group of seven Indian state-owned and private companies
that won three of four blocks.  The Indian group, the Afghan Iron & Steel Consortium, or
AFISCO, has offered to build a steel plant and railroad, and in
December asked for $7.8 billion in government loans and
guarantees, two people with direct knowledge said then.  “They have sought certain assurances regarding the
financing,” Foreign Secretary Ranjan Mathai said at a March 21
press conference in New Delhi. “When they made their bid they
were confident that they would have the ability to do it,” he
said. “This matter is still under discussion.”  AFISCO’s biggest owner, state-controlled  Steel Authority of
India Ltd ., or SAIL, hasn’t said when iron production might
begin, although the New Delhi-based company says full
development of the mine and railroad may take eight to 12 years.
Hajigak would be SAIL’s first expansion beyond India.  Ore Supplies  The Afghan deposit would offer needed future ore supplies
for other AFISCO partners, such as  JSW Steel Ltd. (JSTL) , where profits
fell in the quarter ending in December after an Indian court
banned mining in Karnataka state.  India’s mines ministry has assembled a second group of
state companies, including SAIL,  National Aluminium Co. Ltd. (NACL)  of
Bhubaneswar and Kolkata-based  Hindustan Copper Ltd. (HCP) , to bid on
licenses to mine copper or gold offered by the Afghan
government, according to Mines Secretary Vishwapati Trivedi.  That bid may be combined with a separate offer being
assembled by private Indian companies, he said in a March 21
interview in New Delhi.  The parliament rising on the outskirts of Kabul is further
evidence of the broad engagement envisioned by Singh and Karzai,
who holds two degrees from Himachal Pradesh University in
northern India. In October, the two leaders signed a strategic
partnership that will increase the numbers of Afghan students at
Indian universities and may let India train Afghan army troops.  Pakistan’s Reservation  For  Pakistan ’s military, which dominates national security
policy after having ruled the country for more than half the
time since independence in 1947, India’s growing role in
Afghanistan appears as a threat, said Imtiaz Gul, executive
director of the independent Center for Research and Security
Studies in Islamabad.  “We have always this perception that India will use
Afghanistan against us,” he said in a phone interview.  Since the 1980s, Pakistan has backed Afghan guerrilla
groups such as the Taliban’s Haqqani network in attacking Afghan
governments, including Karzai’s, Gul said March 26. The goal, he
said, was to keep Afghanistan from aligning too closely with
India and from reviving old Afghan sovereignty claims over
ethnic Pashtun parts of western Pakistan.  Pakistani officials, including Interior Minister Rehman Malik, have said for years that Indian spies in Afghanistan
foment insurgency by ethnic Baluch and Pashtun guerrillas near
the Afghan border. “We have proof to show that,” said Foreign
Ministry spokesman Abdul Basit in an interview in Islamabad Feb.
9. “We don’t want to say more than that in public,” he said.  No ‘Solid Evidence’  Gul and other independent analysts, including Rustam Shah Mohmand, a former Pakistani ambassador in Kabul, say there is no
evidence for Pakistan’s claim of Indian subversion. “We say
these things because of our India-centric policy,” Mohmand said
by phone Feb. 24 from the northwestern city of  Peshawar . “But
we don’t have any solid evidence to prove that.”  Taliban or allied Islamic militant fighters killed at least
58 Indians and Afghans in two suicide bombings of India’s
embassy in Kabul in 2008 and 2009. India accused Pakistan’s spy
agency, the Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate, or ISI, of
assisting the first attack, which Pakistan denied.  Other Taliban attacks have killed Indian doctors and aid
workers in Kabul and construction workers building a highway in
southwestern Afghanistan.  Defending Trains  Karzai’s government has deployed dedicated troops to
protect a Chinese-owned  copper mine  at Aynak, south of Kabul,
Afghanistan’s biggest mining investment now underway. While no
Taliban attacks have been recorded there and Afghanistan
promises similar protection for India’s iron mine, the railroads
envisioned to carry ores would be more difficult to defend
against guerrilla attacks.  India’s AFISCO intends to overcome Pakistani suspicions
enough to transport the iron ore back to India through Pakistan,
said Sandeep Jajodia, managing director at  Monnet Ispat (MISP) , a New
Delhi-based steel company that is a member of the group. While
Pakistan bars Indian exports across its territory to
Afghanistan, it lets Afghan companies ship to Indian markets and
this year relaxed strictures on its own imports of Indian goods.  “Shipping the ore via Pakistan is a logical possibility,
but it’s a call we will have to take much later, considering how
trade relations between India and Pakistan develop,” Jajodia
said in a March 27 interview.  India also is considering construction of a rail line from
Afghanistan to  Iran ’s port of Chahbahar, which would give it a
transport route that Pakistan can’t control.  There’s more at stake for India than a predictable
neighborhood. Its drive for Afghan iron and copper ore is key in
Singh’s plan to create 100 million jobs by raising industrial
production to 25 percent of GDP by 2025, said Gopalaswami Parthasarathy, a retired Indian ambassador who serves on a
government task force reviewing India’s national security needs.  “An essential part of our long-term national security is
expanding industry,” Parthasarathy said in an interview in New
Delhi. “The pacing of this will depend on stability as the
Americans manage their end game. But when the time comes we’ll
have streams of Indian construction crews, technicians and plant
going in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in New Delhi at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  