-- International Power Rejects GDF’s $9.5 Billion Takeover Bid
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-04-04T15:52:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/international-power-rejects-gdf-s-9-5-billion-takeover-bid-1-.html
International Power Plc (IPR)  rejected a
$9.5 billion bid by  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,  Europe ’s biggest utility by
market value, to take over the rest of the company.  “The members of the independent committee have unanimously
concluded that the indicative proposal of 390 pence per share
undervalues IPR,” International Power said today in a statement
in  London . “GDF has been notified that the independent
committee is unable to accept the indicative proposal.”  The bid values the 30 percent of International Power not
already owned by GDF at 6 billion pounds ($9.5 billion).
International Power has gained 17 percent this year and the
offer represented a premium of 1.7 percent to the share price
the day before it was made on March 29.  “This does not come as a surprise to us as our stance
remains that a higher price will be necessary,” said John Musk,
an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. An improved offer
of above 400 pence, or even 420 pence a share, will be required,
he said.  In response, GDF said it will consider all options,
including withdrawing its offer. The French utility said it
considered its bid to be “attractive” for minority
shareholders.  Stock Performance  GDF slipped 2.4 percent in Paris trading to 18.60 euros.
International Power was little changed at 402.2 pence in London
after jumping 5.6 percent the day the deal was announced.  The deal would be the second biggest this year after
 Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s offer for  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)  It would
give GDF complete control over the company it merged some
divisions with last year to create the world’s second-largest
power producer.  International Power completed a merger of assets with
Paris-based GDF last year, boosting its gross generation
capacity to more than 70,000 megawatts in 30 countries. The
agreement involved combining International Power divisions with
GDF assets in  Turkey , the U.K. and outside Europe.  GDF said last week that it will sell more assets if the
deal goes through. In February, it said it planned to sell
assets valued at 10 billion euros ($13 billion) through 2013.  International Power today reiterated that, under the terms
of the merger of assets agreed in 2010, GDF can’t make a bid for
the rest of the company until Aug. 3 without the consent of all
of International Power’s independent non-executive directors on
the board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  