-- Iran Proposes Iraq or China as Venue for Nuclear Talks
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-04-04T14:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/iran-proposes-iraq-or-china-as-venue-for-nuclear-talks.html
Iranian Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  suggested China and Iraq as potential venues for nuclear
talks between his country and world powers this month.  “There were talks of holding the negotiations in Baghdad
or in China and this matter has a course and needs to be agreed
by all the parties,” Salehi said today in Tehran, according to
the state-run  Mehr  news agency. “Istanbul was our initial
proposal. The Europeans first rejected it and then agreed.
Parallel to this, we had other countries in mind.”  Salehi’s comments came after U.S. Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  said on March 31 that negotiations between Iran
and the five permanent members of the United Nations Security
Council plus  Germany  will be held on April 13-14 in Istanbul.  The last talks, held in Turkey in January 2011, broke down
without any commitments to hold another round. European Union
foreign-policy chief  Catherine Ashton  said at the time that Iran
demanded UN sanctions be lifted before substantive discussions
about its nuclear work could begin.  “The content of the talks is more important than the venue
or date of the meeting,” Salehi told reporters today. “The
upcoming talks will be better than the previous ones and will
allow for steps forward.”  Iran says its atomic program is for peaceful purposes,
while the U.S. and its allies accuse the government of seeking
to develop the capacity to build nuclear weapons. Israel has
threatened a military strike against  Iran ’s nuclear facilities
to forestall that development, and the U.S. says it hasn’t ruled
out the use of force against the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  