-- Irish Support for EU Pact Best Way for Bank Deal, Hayes Says
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-04-04T15:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/irish-support-for-eu-pact-best-way-for-bank-deal-hayes-says-1-.html
Ireland’s best chance of securing an
accord with European partners ove a restructuring of its bank-
bailout costs is for voters to approve a proposed fiscal
compact, said  Brian Hayes , a junior government minister.  “The best way of getting this deal ultimately is to vote
yes,” Hayes, whose role straddles the  Finance Ministry  and
Ministry for Public Expenditure and Reform, told Dublin-based
RTE Radio today. The “best way we stay fully engaged” with
European partners “is to vote yes,” he said, adding that the
government isn’t linking approval of the pact to an agreement on
restructuring bank debt.  Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  has repeatedly said he isn’t
looking for a banking deal as a trade-off to win Irish support
for the European fiscal pact in a national referendum on May 31.
The compact requires nations to anchor balanced-budget rules in
national law and accelerates sanctions on states that exceed the
European Union’s deficit limits.  Ireland has been seeking help since September to refinance
about 30 billion euros ($40 billion) of so-called promissory
notes used to rescue former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. As part of a
broader deal, the government also plans to move loss-making
assets, mainly  mortgage loans  that track the  European Central
Bank ’s key rate, out of some other state-controlled banks.  ‘Yes Vote’  “The link that politicians continue to draw between a yes
vote in the referendum and a positive outcome in securing a deal
on bank debt is unhelpful,” said  Stephen Lyons , an analyst with
Dublin-based securities firm Davy. “A yes vote in its own right
is the best outcome for the Irish people as it will facilitate
access to the” European Stability Mechanism, the permanent
euro-area bailout fund, “and accelerate Ireland’s return to the
 bond market .”  Fifty-nine percent of Irish people who expressed a
preference intend to support the fiscal treaty in the
referendum, Paddy Power, the Dublin-based bookmaker, said March
29, citing a poll carried out for it by Red C. The research
company surveyed 1,009 voters March 26-28 by telephone.  Ireland has been absent from bond markets since September
2010, two months before it was forced into an 67.5 billion-euro
international bailout. Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as
the benchmark, yielded 6.82 percent today, down from 9.1 percent
at the start of December.  Anglo Irish  Ireland has injected about 62 billion euros into its banks
in the past three years to shore up their balance sheets amid
soaring bad-loan losses following the collapse of a domestic
real-estate bubble. It has committed a further 1.3 billion euros
to one of the lenders,  Irish Life & Permanent Plc (IPM) , by the end of
June.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said on March 29 that
Ireland may seek a bond from the European Financial Stability
Facility, the euro-area bailout fund, to refinance the Anglo
Irish promissory notes, which require Ireland to pay back about
3.1 billion euros annually over more than a decade. Anglo Irish
was renamed Irish Bank Resolution Corp. last year.  Ireland effectively side-stepped the annual cash payment
last month by issuing a long-term bond to Anglo Irish as it
continued its campaign to restructure the overall bank bailout.
The deferral move helped narrow the government’s budget deficit
in the first quarter by 40 percent to 4.3 billion euros on the
same period last year, the Finance Ministry said yesterday.  ‘Utmost Importance’  ECB President  Mario Draghi  said that it’s of “utmost
importance” that Ireland meets “standing contracts and
commitments,” when asked about the promissory notes at a press
conference in  Frankfurt  today.  “If we do the bigger deal, a part of that will be to use
some of our gains to further improve the position of the banks
and removing loss-making assets from their balance sheets,”
said Noonan on March 29.  Irish authorities are considering moving some bad mortgage
loans and loans that track the ECB key rate out of  Allied Irish
Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Irish Life, which was once the biggest mortgage
lender, according to four people with knowledge of the
discussions. These loans may be transferred to IBRC, they said.  IBRC Chief Executive  Mike Aynsley  said on March 29 he was
in talks that may lead to the lender taking on residential
mortgages from other banks. “Unless these banks get in a
profitable” position, they’re “‘not going to be able to
provide credit’’ and aid economic recovery, he said.  The country’s so-called bailout troika, comprising the EU
Commission, the ECB and the  International Monetary Fund , have
yet to complete a working paper on bank restructuring. While
Irish ministers have raised the issue ‘‘continually’’ with
European colleagues, Hayes said he has ‘‘no expectation’’ of a
deal being agreed when euro-area finance minister meet in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  