-- Service Industries in U.S. Kept Expanding in March: Economy
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-04T20:42:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ism-services-gauge-in-u-s-decreased-to-56-in-march-from-57-3.html
Service industries  in the U.S. grew
in March, capping the strongest quarter in a year and indicating
the world’s largest economy will keep generating jobs.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s  non-manufacturing 
index fell to 56 from a one-year high of 57.3 in February, the
Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data showed today. Last month’s
reading still topped the average for the previous economic
expansion. Another report showed companies added an estimated
209,000 workers to payrolls in March.  Sales (RSTAMOM)  at businesses like restaurants and retailers are
climbing as an improving labor market shores up household
incomes and confidence in the face of more expensive gasoline.
Since mid-2011, the industries that account for almost 90
percent of the economy have outpaced gains in manufacturing,
which had been at the forefront of the two-year expansion.  “No longer can we say that only manufacturing is powering
the economy forward,” said Jennifer Lee, a senior economist at
BMO Capital Markets in Toronto, who correctly forecast the level
of the index. “The general trend is very encouraging.”  Stocks fell as a drop in demand for Spanish bonds brought
concern over the European debt crisis to the fore and after
Federal Reserve policy makers signaled yesterday that an
improving economy would cause them to refrain from additional
monetary stimulus. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 1
percent to 1,398.96 at the close in  New York .  Overseas, U.K. services unexpectedly grew at a faster pace
in March, adding to signs the economy avoided a recession and
built momentum heading into the second quarter.  Economies Overseas  Australia ’s trade account was in deficit in February for a
second consecutive month as coal and metal exports slumped, the
first back-to-back shortfall in two years.  An improving labor market has helped underpin demand and
lift consumer sentiment in the U.S. Private employment climbed
by 209,000 workers in March after a February increase of 230,000
that was more than initially estimated, according to a report
today from ADP Employer Services. Service producers added
164,000 jobs last month, the data showed.  The  median forecast  of 69 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News projected the ISM services index would fall to 56.8.
Estimates ranged from 54 to 62. The gauge averaged 55.3 during
the six-year expansion ended in December 2007.  The ISM non-manufacturing survey’s  employment  index rose to
56.7, the second-highest since February 2006. New orders,
business activity and prices all expanded at a slower pace last
month.  ‘Very Strong’  The index “is still at a very strong rate considering
where the non-manufacturing sector evolved from over the past
three years,”  Anthony Nieves , chairman of the ISM’s non-
manufacturing index, said in a conference call with reporters.
“We’ve had a nice spike upward over the last couple of months,
coming through the first quarter of 2012.”  The survey covers industries ranging from utilities and
construction to retailing and finance. An April 2 report from
the purchasing managers group showed manufacturing accelerated
in March and factory employment also picked up.  A Labor Department report on April 6 is projected to show
private employment, which excludes government agencies,
increased by 215,000 in March, capping the biggest four-month
gain since 2006.  Households are feeling more optimistic as a result of the
pickup in hiring. The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort  Index (COMFCOMF)  hovered
last month at the highest levels in four years.  With the labor market on the mend and confidence improving,
household spending climbed in February by the most in seven
months. Purchases increased 0.8 percent, Commerce Department
data showed last week.  Gaining ‘Steam’  “The economy is beginning to pick up a little steam,”
Mark Lemond, president and chief executive officer of  Shoe
Carnival Inc. (SCVL) , said in a March 21 conference call. “When the
customer has money in their pocket, they’re definitely willing
to spend it. This bodes well for the rest of 2012 and beyond.”  The Evansville, Indiana-based retailer said it expects
same-store sales to increase 5.5 percent to 7 percent in the
first quarter with total revenue rising to about $220 million.  Fed policy makers see the improving economy reducing the
need for new stimulus even as they stick to a plan to hold the
benchmark  interest rate  near zero at least through late 2014.  Officials said more was needed only “if the economy lost
momentum” or if inflation stays below their 2 percent inflation
target, according to minutes of their March 13 meeting released
yesterday in  Washington . That contrasts with their January
meeting minutes, in which some policy makers saw the economy
requiring additional action “before long.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  