-- Jaguar E-Type, Old Vic Murder, Easter Egg: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-04-05T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/jaguar-e-type-old-vic-murder-royal-easter-egg-london-weekend.html
The Liverpool band  Cast  is back in
 London , striving to measure up to the Who and playing songs from
a new CD, “Troubled Times.”  Expect plenty of long-term fans worshiping John Power’s
group: Noel Gallagher of Oasis, no less, likened a Cast concert
to a religious experience. The loudest cheers will come for
well-known tracks such as “Sandstorm” from the million-selling
 debut album  “All Change.”  Cast, tonight at O2 Shepherd’s Bush Empire, Shepherd’s Bush
Green, W12 8TT. Information:  http://www.castband.co.uk/ ,
 http://www.o2shepherdsbushempire.co.uk , or +44-844-477-2000.  Popeseye is an unpretentious neighborhood steakhouse a 10-
minute walk from the Shepherd’s Bush Empire. The grass-fed
Aberdeen Angus comes from a family butcher in the north of
 Scotland , and is strong on flavor. Information:
 http://gsarnikowska.perso.neuf.fr/popeseye/  or +44-20-8788-7733.  Saturday  A copper-colored collector’s Jaguar is yours to ogle at the
 Victoria & Albert Museum .  The 1961 E-Type sits proudly among other prototypes in
“British Design: 1948-2012” (through Aug. 12). Nearby are an
elongated maquette of the Concorde, a delicate model of  Norman Foster ’s Gherkin, and clips of commercials, including a Heineken
one parodying “My Fair Lady.” In it, a posh girl desperately
tries to sound working-class as she utters the words “The water
in Majorca don’t taste like wot it oughtta.”  After a ramshackle opening section with faded frocks and
furniture, the show turns on the glamour with  David Bowie ’s
lopsided Ziggy Stardust bodysuit and  John Galliano ’s
deconstructed-corset gown (inspired by  Egon Schiele ). Oh, and
there’s a room devoted to the ubiquitous  Damien Hirst , with a
drug cabinet, a pill-shaped stool, and a molecule sculpture from
his now-defunct Pharmacy restaurant.  Information:  http://vam.ac.uk  or +44-20-7942-2000.  Galvin Demoiselle is a new bistro in Harrods Food Hall. The
store is a short walk from the V&A. Galvin, open all day, is a
good spot for lunch, afternoon tea, or early dinner.
Information:  http://bit.ly/HdwJGa  (No telephone line.)  Saturday Night  Strangulation, adultery and suggestions of incest are on
the menu at the Old Vic Theatre.  “The Duchess of Malfi” tells the story of a blue-blooded
lady who marries beneath her station, has a few kids, and
unleashes the wrath of her possessive, bloodthirsty brother.  Incense wafts through the theater as you take your seat to
watch a spectacle replete with smoke machines, ornate stairways,
and masks. If you’re prudish or squeamish, keep away, or you’ll
see a married woman mount a cardinal, a brother and sister kiss
on the mouth, and one or two characters get choked with rope.  Information:  http://www.oldvictheatre.com  or +44-844-871-
76-28.  Sunday  A fiberglass egg signed by Prince Charles and his wife
Camilla and sold for 51,000 pounds ($81,000) in a March charity
auction is on display at Covent Garden Piazza -- along with
dozens of others -- this Easter weekend.  The royal item drew the highest live-auction bids in the
Faberge Big Egg Hunt. More than 200 eggs have been created for
the event, including by architect  Zaha Hadid  and artist Marc Quinn, and you can still bid online for many of them. The artist
duo Jake & Dinos Chapman have yet to deliver theirs.  At Covent Garden Piazza through Easter Monday. Information:
 http://www.thebigegghunt.co.uk .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 