-- Japan Storm Kills Four People, Disrupts Flights, Mobile Networks
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-04-04T03:13:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/japan-storm-kills-four-people-disrupts-flights-mobile-networks.html
Four  people were reported killed and
another 400 injured in the storm that pummeled  Japan  yesterday
and continues to disrupt airline flights, trains and mobile-
phone networks in the north of the country today.  All Nippon Airways Co. (9202)  scrapped 39 flights, it said in a
faxed statement.  Japan Airlines Co. (9205)  canceled 24 domestic
flights, it said in a faxed statement, as well as four
international services, according to Seiji Takaramoto, a
spokesman for the Tokyo-based carrier.  Northern Japan is forecast to be hit by winds of up to  90
kilometers an hour  (56 miles per hour), according to the  Japan
Meteorological Agency .  East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , the nation’s
largest rail operator, canceled trains on dozens of lines in the
north, according to its  website .  “People should take care in northern Japan as the winds
are still strong there,” said Maki Wakahara, a spokeswoman for
the  Japan Weather Association .  Public broadcaster NHK reported
the current deaths and injuries from the storm on its website.  Tohoku Electric Power Co. is working to restore electricity
to more than 216,000 homes in northern parts of the country
including Akita and Niigata prefectures, the company said in a
statement on its website. The loss of power knocked out mobile-
phone base stations, leaving users unable to make calls or send
e-mails, NTT DoCoMo Inc., KDDI Corp. and Softbank Corp., Japan’s
largest mobile phone operators, said.  Oil Refineries  Oil refiner  Idemitsu Kosan Co. (5019)  resumed loadings and
unloadings today at its Aichi and Tokuyama refineries, which
were suspended yesterday because of the storm, Kei Uchikawa, a
company spokesman, said by phone.  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp., Japan’s largest refiner,
stopped loadings at its Kashima refinery in eastern Japan today,
while it resumed operations at its Mizushima, Oita and Marifu
refineries in western Japan, said a company official, who
declined to be identified, citing internal policy. Berthing
operations at its Negishi plant near  Tokyo  are still suspended,
the official said.  Cosmo Oil Co. (5007)  resumed operations at its Chiba and Yokkaichi
refineries after the storm forced a halt to fuel loading and
unloading from barges, said Katsuhisa Maeda, a company
spokesman.  Thousands of employees in the Tokyo metropolitan region at
companies including  Sony Corp. (6758)  and Nissan Motor Co. left work
early yesterday to try to avoid train cancellations as the storm
approached the capital with sustained winds forecast at 90 kph,
which would have been the strongest to hit the city in more than
50 years.  The sustained wind speeds in the center of Tokyo last night
was lower than forecast at 54 kph, with gusts reaching up to 107
kph. The storm dumped 21.5 millimeters of rain on the city,
according to the meteorological agency.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  