-- Japan’s Inflation Expectations Rise on Higher Gasoline Prices
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-04-04T08:47:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/japan-s-inflation-expectations-rise-on-higher-gasoline-prices.html
Inflation (JNCPIXFF)  expectations among
Japanese consumers rose for the first time in three quarters,
signaling a growing concern over higher  oil prices .  Some 57.9 percent of consumers surveyed said they expect
prices to climb over the next year, an increase of 2.8
percentage points from three months ago, the  Bank of Japan (8301)  said
in a quarterly report today. Consumer prices will grow 2 percent
over that period, according to the median estimate of households
surveyed. The survey was conducted from Feb. 8 to March 5.  Higher inflation expectations indicate rising gasoline
prices are taking a toll on households, whose  income growth  has
stagnated amid the nation’s decade-long battle with deflation.
In a sign people anticipate price increases to continue, 73.5
percent of those surveyed said they see prices increasing in the
next five years.  “This isn’t good news for the BOJ,” said  Junko Nishioka ,
chief economist at RBS Securities  Japan  Ltd. and a former
central bank official. “Rising inflation expectations based on
gasoline prices and consumer prices is a concern amid a weak
recovery.”  Nishioka said price expectations probably weren’t affected
by the 1 percent inflation goal BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa
and his board members set in February, because households are
more concerned about price changes in goods they consume on a
regular basis.  Gasoline prices rose to the highest level in three and a
half years at the end of March, according to the Oil Information
Center in Tokyo.  Consumer prices  unexpectedly rose 0.1 percent
in February while  wages  climbed 0.7 percent after falling 0.9
percent in the previous month, government reports showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  