-- JJB Sports Ex-CEO Charged With Fraud, Money Laundering
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-04-04T15:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/jjb-sports-ex-ceo-charged-with-fraud-money-laundering.html
Christopher Ronnie, the former chief
executive officer of  JJB Sports Plc (JJB) , was charged with fraud and
 money laundering  by the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office.  Ronnie, 50, who was CEO of the sportswear and equipment
retailer from August 2007 until March 2009, was charged at a
London criminal court today with failing to disclose interests
in contracts entered into by the company, money laundering, and
providing false information, the SFO said in a statement.  The agency also charged David Patrick Ball, 51, the joint
beneficial owner of JJB supplier Fashion & Sport Ltd., with
three counts of furnishing false information for his part in the
alleged 1 million-pound ($1.6 million) fraud.  Ronnie “has fully cooperated with the Serious Fraud Office
investigation and is surprised and disappointed at the
decision,” said Anthony Barnfather, a lawyer for the former
executive.  “He strenuously denies the charges, has always maintained
his innocence and is confident his position will be vindicated
in due course,” Barnfather, a partner at Pannone LLP, said.  Lawyers for Ball were not immediately available for
comment.  The SFO began investigating Wigan, England-based JJB and
 Sports Direct International Plc (SPD)  in August 2009, when the  Office
of Fair Trading  referred the matter to them. The agency closed
its probe in October 2010 without bringing charges against the
companies while stating it was continuing to investigate
individuals. Other suspects are still under investigation in the
case, the SFO said.  JJB cooperated fully with the SFO in its investigation, the
company said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  