-- JPMorgan Pays $20 Million to Settle CFTC Case Over Lehman
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-04-04T16:49:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/jpmorgan-pays-20-million-to-settle-cftc-segregated-fund-claims.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank, will pay $20 million to resolve a U.S. regulator’s
claims that the firm mishandled customer funds from  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  from 2006 to 2008.  JPMorgan, serving as Lehman’s main clearing bank, counted
client money as belonging to the firm itself while extending
loans that let Lehman bet on markets, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission said today in a statement. When Lehman filed
for bankruptcy in September 2008, JPMorgan refused to release
the money for two weeks until CFTC officials insisted, the
watchdog said.  Collapses of Wall Street firms including  MF Global Holdings
Ltd. (MFGLQ)  have spawned customer claims that their money was frozen or
lost after companies improperly used their holdings. Lehman at
times had more than $1 billion of clients’ funds deposited with
JPMorgan, which improperly counted segregated customer funds in
extending credit over a 22-month period, according to the CFTC.  “The laws applying to customer segregated accounts impose
critical restrictions on how financial institutions can treat
customer funds, and prohibit these institutions from standing in
the way of immediate withdrawal,” CFTC Enforcement Director
David Meister said in the agency’s statement. “These laws must
be strictly observed at all times, whether the markets are calm
or in crisis.”  JPMorgan settled claims that it violated commodities laws
without admitting or denying wrongdoing, according to the CFTC.  Calculation Errors  The errors were unintentional, and JPMorgan didn’t use
customer funds to meet any of Lehman’s obligations, the bank
said in a statement today. The entire balance of one Lehman
accounts was mistakenly factored into JPMorgan’s daily
calculation of the broker-dealer’s assets in determining how
much credit to extend, according to the statement.  “The size of this customer account was small relative to
the overall relationship between JPMorgan and Lehman, as was any
additional credit extended by JPMorgan to Lehman as a result of
the account’s inclusion in the calculation of credit,” JPMorgan
said.  Lehman, which filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history
with $613 billion in debt, said last month it was exiting court
protection and will make a first payment to creditors April 17.  MF Global  U.S. lawmakers questioned a JPMorgan executive last month
about the bank’s handling of MF Global customer funds during a
hearing on that  New York  broker’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy, which left
a $1.6 billion shortfall in client money.  Diane Genova, a deputy general counsel for JPMorgan, told a
House Financial Services subcommittee that the bank contacted
Jon S. Corzine, MF Global’s former chairman and chief executive
officer, to seek written confirmation that $175 million
transferred to cover an overdraft in a London subsidiary’s
account represented only the firm’s funds.  MF Global General Counsel Laurie Ferber told JPMorgan the
transfer “represented a withdrawal of MF Global’s own funds
held in a customer segregated account, and that we therefore did
not need to be concerned,” Genova said. After rejecting the
bank’s initial request as too broad, Ferber told JPMorgan
representatives she would arrange to get a revised version of a
confirmation letter signed, Genova told lawmakers.  MF Global never returned a signed letter, she said.  JPMorgan hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing in the MF
Global investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  