-- Kenya Shilling Gains as Central Bank Expected to Retain Rate
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-04-04T12:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/kenya-shilling-gains-as-central-bank-expected-to-retain-rate.html
Kenya’s shilling appreciated,
snapping a three-day losing streak as the central bank’s
monetary policy committee is not expected to cut its rate
“quickly.”  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy strengthened
0.2 percent to 83 shillings per dollar at 3:18 p.m. in Nairobi.  “The sustained tight monetary policy stance adopted by the
central bank of high  interest rates  seems to support the
shilling,” Nicholas Malaki, senior investment manager at
Nairobi-base PineBridge Investments Ltd., said in a presentation
handed to reporters today in Nairobi. Even with “consistently”
slowing inflation, the central bank “is unlikely to unwind its
program quickly,” he said.  The central bank’s monetary policy committee is meeting
today, with five out of eight economists surveyed by Bloomberg
expecting it to retain the benchmark rate at 18 percent. The
committee left the key lending rate at a record high for a third
meeting last month, after increasing it six times last year to
curb inflation and support the shilling.  The  inflation rate  declined for a fourth month to 15.61
percent in March from 16.69 percent in the previous month, the
Nairobi-based  Kenya  National Bureau of Statistics said in an e-
mailed statement on March 30. On a monthly basis, prices rose
1.3 percent after falling 0.04 percent in February, it said.  Tanzania, Uganda  Tanzania’s shilling appreciated as businesses prepared to
settle their first quarter tax bills. The currency of the
second-biggest economy in East Africa strengthened as much as
0.6 percent to 1,584.25 per dollar and traded 0.1 percent
stronger at 1,592.  “The shilling has gained due to a liquidity squeeze in the
market as businesses start to pay their taxes at the end of the
first quarter,” Eric Chijoriga, a trader with National Bank of
Commerce Ltd., ABSA Group’s Tanzanian unit said by phone today
from  Dar es Salaam , the commercial Capital. “This could
continue as there is not much demand for dollars ahead of the
Easter holiday.”  The Ugandan shilling appreciated for the second day, adding
0.3 percent to 2,481.95 per dollar.  -- With assistance from David Malingha Doya in Dar es Salaam
Editors: Linda Shen, Peter Branton  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  