-- Kenya Shilling Gains First Day in Four as Bank Retains Rate
-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 2012-04-04T15:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/kenya-shilling-gains-first-day-in-four-as-bank-retains-rate.html
Kenya ’s shilling appreciated,
snapping a three-day losing streak, as the central bank’s
monetary policy committee kept its benchmark interest rate
unchanged for a fourth meeting to combat inflation.  The currency of  East Africa ’s biggest economy strengthened
0.1 percent to close at 83.10 shillings per dollar. It had
gained as much as 0.6 percent to 82.70 before the bank announced
its decision.  The  inflation rate  declined for a fourth month to 15.61
percent in March from 16.69 percent in the previous month, the
Nairobi-based Kenya National Bureau of Statistics said in an e-
mailed statement on March 30. On a monthly basis, prices rose
1.3 percent after falling 0.04 percent in February, it said.  “The sustained tight monetary policy stance adopted by the
central bank of high  interest rates  seems to support the
shilling,” Nicholas Malaki, senior investment manager at
Nairobi-based PineBridge Investments Ltd., said in a
presentation handed to reporters today in Nairobi.  Tanzania’s shilling appreciated as businesses prepared to
settle their first-quarter tax bills. The currency of the
second-biggest economy in East Africa strengthened 0.2 percent
to close at 1,590 per dollar after gaining as much as 0.6
percent to 1,584.25 earlier in the day.  “The shilling has gained due to a liquidity squeeze in the
market as businesses start to pay their taxes at the end of the
first quarter,” Eric Chijoriga, a trader with National Bank of
Commerce Ltd., ABSA Group’s Tanzanian unit said by phone today
from Dar es Salaam, the commercial capital. “This could
continue as there is not much demand for dollars ahead of the
Easter holiday.”  Uganda  Uganda ’s shilling appreciated for a second day on increased
dollar inflow as investors sought to buy  government securities .
The currency of the second-biggest economy in East Africa gained
0.2 percent to close at 2,485 per dollar after trading 0.5
percent stronger to 2,477 per dollar.  “The shilling strengthened on the back of dollar inflows
from offshore investors who participated in today’s Treasury
bill auction,” Peter Mbowa, a currency trader at the local unit
of  Kenya Commercial Bank Ltd. (KNCB) , said by phone from Kampala.  The nation’s central bank sold 120 billion shillings ($48
million) in three-, six- and 12-month bills, with the three-
month bills attracting a 18.086 percent yield.  -- With assistance from David Malingha Doya in  Dar es Salaam 
Fred Ojambo in Kampala. Editors: Linda Shen, Peter Branton  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net  