-- King’s Stimulus Affirmed as BOE Readies QE Debate in May
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-04-05T11:14:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/king-readies-completion-of-current-stimulus-as-boe-debate-looms.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
and his committee voted today to complete their current round of
stimulus as they get ready to debate next month whether to bring
the program to a halt.  With some on the nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
toughening their stance about the threat of inflation and King
insisting the U.K.’s predicament still feels “like a crisis,”
the panel backed finishing their 325 billion pounds ($516
billion) of  quantitative easing . That sets the stage for a
showdown in May, when officials will have new forecasts and data
on first-quarter gross domestic product.  Policy makers are trying to nurture a recovery under
pressure from  Europe ’s debt crisis and Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne ’s fiscal squeeze. While surveys this
week indicated the economy is gaining momentum,  Adam Posen  and
 David Miles  still called for another expansion of stimulus last
month at a meeting when the majority of their colleagues favored
waiting to gauge risks to inflation.  “Attention now turns to the May meeting, which is
certainly a live one,” said David Tinsley, chief U.K. economist
at BNP Paribas SA in London and a former Bank of England
official. “The committee may not feel particularly moved to
change its view that the risks around the inflation target are
‘broadly balanced.’ Still, it remains a close call.”  Pound Weaker  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the
announcement. It traded at $1.5822 as of 12:07 p.m. in  London ,
down 0.4 percent on the day after data showed manufacturing
output unexpectedly declined in February for a second month.  U.K. government bonds stayed higher, with the 10-year gilt
yield 6 basis points lower at 2.15 percent.  All 39 economists in a Bloomberg News survey had forecast
the MPC would maintain its current 50 billion-pound program of
asset purchases, which began in February. The panel also left
its  benchmark interest rate  at a record-low 0.5 percent, a
decision predicted by all 53 economists in a separate survey.  U.K.  inflation  eased to 3.4 percent in February from 3.6
percent in January and the Bank of England forecasts it will
slow to the 2 percent target by the end of the year.  While Posen and Miles called last month for an additional
25 billion pounds in stimulus,  Martin Weale  and  Spencer Dale 
signaled they are concerned inflation may slow less than
predicted. Dale, the central bank’s chief economist, said on
March 20 that an “obvious worry” is tension in the  Middle East 
that “could put further upward pressure on  oil prices .”  Posen’s View  Posen has since signaled that his view is shifting, saying
last week that he is now closer to the central forecast and
isn’t “as worried about downside risks as I once was.” The
Bank of England will publish the minutes of today’s meeting on
April 18.  Inflation is also proving a concern for euro-area policy
makers. The  European Central Bank  held its benchmark  interest
rate  at 1 percent yesterday and President  Mario Draghi  said that
there are near-term “upside” price risks.  In the U.K., Markit Economics said Britain’s economy may
have expanded as much as 0.5 percent in the  first quarter  after
its gauges of manufacturing,  services  and construction all
unexpectedly increased in March. Both the manufacturing and
construction surveys showed price pressures rose. A gauge of new
jobs gained 9 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
London-based recruitment company Reed said today.  New Game  “I think the game has moved on,”  Brian Hilliard , chief
U.K. economist at Societe Generale SA and a former Bank of
 England  official, said in a Bloomberg Television interview. “I
had thought they might just close out the program with another
25 billion pounds” in May, “but I doubt it now.”  Osborne said in his annual budget on March 21 that he will
press on with his spending cuts to rein in a deficit of more
than 8 percent of GDP. He said the economy will grow 0.8 percent
this year and 2 percent in 2013.  The British Chambers of Commerce said earlier this week
that while the U.K. will probably avoid a recession, the
recovery remains “weak.” Factory output fell 1 percent in
February, the country’s statistics office said today.  Unemployment (UKUEILOR)  is at a 16-year high and consumers are being
squeezed as inflation outpaces wage growth. VocaLink, which
processes salaries, said today that annual growth in take-home
pay slowed in the first quarter to 1.7 percent from 1.8 percent
in the three months through February.  Zigzag Economy  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  employees in Samlesbury, England, where
work is done on the Eurofighter Typhoon jet, agreed last month
to accept pay cuts to save the jobs of 120 colleagues.  The Bank of England’s economic outlook is being clouded by
what King has said will be a “zigzag” pattern of GDP. The
economy may shrink in the current quarter due to an additional
public holiday for Queen Elizabeth II’s Diamond Jubilee in June
before growing again in the third quarter, he said.  “The clouds appear to be lifting a bit, but the bank will
want a bit more time to assess the data,” said  Peter Dixon , an
economist at Commerzbank AG in London. “It’s about 50-50 that
they’ll do more QE. When they restarted in October I thought
they’d get up to 350 billion pounds, but I’m increasingly not
convinced that will happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  