-- New Nokia Is Good Phone at Great Price: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-04-04T03:01:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/new-nokia-is-good-phone-at-great-price-rich-jaroslovsky.html
When people buy smartphones, they
don’t usually base their decision on how many cores the
processor has or other arcane specs. They want to know how the
phone looks and feels, how enjoyable it is to use, and how much
it costs.  On those points, the  Nokia (NOK1V)  Lumia 900, which goes on sale
this weekend, measures up well. It’s a very good phone and an
even better value, delivering advanced features for $100 on a
two-year contract, much less than competitive offerings.  A lot is riding on this phone’s success. For Nokia and its
partner Microsoft, it’s a chance to become relevant in a
marketplace that has largely passed them by. For AT&T, it’s an
opportunity to attract users to its newest high-speed data
network and set itself apart now that its monopoly on  Apple (AAPL) 
iPhone sales in the U.S. has expired.  The Lumia 900, which runs Microsoft’s Windows Phone 7
operating system, doesn’t match the iPhone’s ease of use or the
vast ecosystems of apps and services that have grown up around
both it and phones running  Google (GOOG) ’s Android operating system.
But I found it more pleasurable than any of a half-dozen largely
indistinguishable Android phones I’ve recently checked out.  Extra Texture  The phone weighs 5.6 ounces, features a vivid 4.3-inch
screen and comes with 16 gigabytes of storage. You have your
choice of three colors and, curiously, two textures: The
polycarbonate bodies of the blue and black models have a matte
surface similar to the smaller Lumia 800. The white version has
a glossy finish.  While the case of my blue test model proved impressively
impervious to smudges, the feel of the phone still took some
getting used to, due to the raised ridges around the screen
where it’s set into the case. My ears took a while to adjust.  I’m a fan of Windows Phone 7, whose user-friendly interface
features large, colorful tiles that display continuously updated
data about people, messages and other things important to you.  One thing I’m not a fan of, though, is turning on a new
device and immediately having to delete a bunch of stuff I don’t
want.  Junked Up  AT&T (T)  has junked up the home screen with proprietary apps
for, among other things, its  U-verse  television service and a
paid navigation service. If you want Nokia’s free navigation app
-- and you do -- you’ll have to download it yourself from the
“Nokia collection” listing on the Windows Phone online store.  Once you take care of the housekeeping, you’ll find the
Lumia 900 a pleasure to use, thanks in part to a couple of
important firsts.  It’s the first Windows phone to run over AT&T’s 4G LTE,
for “Long-Term Evolution,” network. If you’re lucky enough to
live in one of the areas where it’s been introduced, you’ll find
that apps and data download far faster than on the older 3G
network (including the tweaked 3G service that AT&T confusingly
markets as “4G”). But be sure to check on  coverage ; AT&T still
lags behind rival  Verizon Wireless  in rolling out the new high-
speed service.  Facing Front  The other first, for a Nokia Windows phone, is the front-
facing camera. Using the Lumia 900 and a beta version of
 Microsoft (MSFT) ’s  Skype  app, I was able to easily video-chat over LTE
with an iPhone user.  I also liked the rear-facing camera, unusually nice for a
$100 phone, with its Carl Zeiss optics and eight-megapixel
sensor. Unlike some more expensive phones, which can shoot 1080p
video, the Lumia is limited to 720p, but that’s still good
enough to be considered high-definition.  Battery life on the 900 is good, not great. In my tests, I
was able to get through a full day of normal use but found the
battery level dropped appreciably while the phone was in standby
mode if I kept the power-hungry LTE service turned on.  The Nokia’s performance was slightly better than my Droid
Charge, which runs over  Verizon (VZ) ’s LTE network. On the other
hand, the Charge has a replaceable battery; the Lumia’s case,
like the iPhone’s, is sealed.  Even at twice the price, the Lumia 900 would be a
creditable challenger to Android phones from the likes of
Samsung,  Motorola Mobility (MMI)  and  HTC. (2498)  It may not be enough to
restore the mobile fortunes of Nokia and Microsoft, but for $100
it’s a premium product at a value price, and well worth
considering.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 