-- New Mutations in Autistic People May Be Due to Older Fathers
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-04-04T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/new-mutations-in-autistic-people-may-be-due-to-older-fathers.html
Newly found gene mutations tied to
autism may one day help scientists classify types of the
developmental disorder and shape treatments based on their DNA
profiles, researchers said.  The mutations aren’t found in parents of autistic people,
and don’t guarantee children will have autism, the scientists
found. Some, though, are more common in children of older
fathers, with the risk rising as the men age, according to one
of three papers reported in the journal  Nature .  One in 88 U.S. children have autism spectrum disorders,
according to a March 29 federal report. Although the disorders
are classed together, symptoms are frequently different and DNA
may hint at ways to group similar patients, said Evan Eichler, a
professor of genome sciences at the  University of Washington  in
 Seattle  and a study author.  “The analogy I’m hearing, and it’s being used
increasingly, is that it’s like cancer,” said  Andy Shih , vice
president for scientific affairs at Autism Speaks, who wasn’t
involved in the research. “The analogy is apt; many researchers
say we aren’t looking at a single disorder.”  Cancers have similar clinical presentations: rapidly-
dividing cells. However, the way that these malignant cells come
to divide varies widely, depending on genetic and environmental
risk factors. Autism is probably similarly varied, Shih said.  All three studies in Nature looked at spontaneously-
arising, or  de novo , mutations in genes that code proteins.
These mutations occur in egg and sperm cells, and become more
frequent in children as parents age, increasing every decade.  Subset Identified  “We’ve identified a subset to study more intensely, and we
could apply therapies if there are any down the road,” Eichler
said in a telephone interview. More practically, he said, the
findings may be used by families to find and group together
patients with similar symptoms.  “I’ve seen that be beneficial,” Eichler said. “They say
things like, ‘My Johnny was never like the others,’ and now
there’s a group of people with practical solutions for dealing
with this specific form of developmental delay.”  Being able to make a connection with parents in similar
situations can reduce stresses on the families and can improve
patients’ situations, he said.  Matthew State, the author of one of the papers and a
neurogeneticist and psychiatrist at  Yale University  in  New
Haven , said a greater rate of mutation was found in patients
with older parents.  His research found mutations that disrupted
genes expressed in the brain, suggesting multiple new variants
that may be risk factors.  Hitting a Gene  “Any one of those can hit a gene that’s relevant for
autism,” he said, adding that fathers’ contributions are
particularly important, as they contributed 4 times the
mutations that mothers did.  The technology to identify these spontaneous mutations
didn’t exist as recently as 3 years ago, said Benjamin Neale, an
assistant in genetics  at Massachusetts General Hospital  in
 Boston . The majority of the population has at least one de novo
mutation; the question is which ones may confer risk for autism
and other specific disorders.  “We want to know what genetic risk factors predispose
toward autism so we can improve prediction,” Neale said. ‘But
also we want to know what biological processes are involved, so
we can understand neurobiology and treatment.”  The discoveries today should help scientists gain insights
about how autism affects the developing brain, which can be
challenging to do, he said. Neale’s study found many de novo
mutations aren’t connected to the disease, and those that do
many not necessarily cause autism in all people.  The candidate list is “excellent,” and more work will
have to be done in order to understand what genes will be
important, Neale said.  The research was sponsored by the National Heart, Lung, and
Blood Institute, the Simons Foundation Autism Research
Institute, the  National Institutes of Health  and other groups.
Autism Speaks funds some of the researchers involved and
assisted with sample collection, Shih said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 