-- New Orleans Police Get Decades in Prison in Katrina Killings
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-04-04T23:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/new-orleans-police-may-face-life-sentences-over-katrina-deaths.html
Four  New Orleans  police officers
were sentenced to 38 to 65 years in prison for convictions
including violating the civil rights of two people killed a week
after Hurricane Katrina devastated the city in 2005.  U.S. District Judge Kurt D. Engelhardt in New Orleans
sentenced a fifth officer today to six years in prison for
covering up the crimes.  A federal jury in August convicted officers Kenneth Bowen,
Robert Gisevius, Robert Faulcon and Anthony Villavaso of opening
fire on unarmed black civilians on the city’s Danziger Bridge
and conspiring with others to cover up their actions. The fifth,
homicide detective Arthur “Archie” Kaufman, was convicted of
conspiring to make the shootings appear justified.  “We hope that today’s sentences give a measure of peace
and closure to the victims of this terrible shooting, who have
suffered unspeakable pain and who have waited so patiently for
justice to be done,” Thomas E. Perez, assistant attorney
general for the  Justice Department ’s civil rights division, said
in an e-mailed statement. “The officers who shot innocent
people on the bridge and then went to great lengths to cover up
their own crimes have finally been held accountable for their
actions.”  The civil rights violations caused the deaths of James
Brissette and Ronald Madison, the jury found, which meant that
the four officers directly involved faced a maximum punishment
of life in prison. Bowen was sentenced to 40 years, Faulcon to
65, Gisevius to 40, Villavaso to 38, and Kaufman to six.  After Katrina  The shootings took place on Sept. 4, 2005, one week after
Katrina flooded most of New Orleans and one day after stranded
evacuees were airlifted and bused to safety.  A July 2010 indictment accused Bowen, Gisevius, Faulcon and
Villavaso of firing on a family on the east side of the Danziger
Bridge, killing James Brissette, 17, and wounding four other
people. The defendants said they were responding to a
policewoman’s radio call of officers and rescue workers in
danger.  The U.S. accused Faulcon of shooting Ronald Madison, a 40-
year-old man with mental disabilities, on the other side of the
bridge. The jury said Faulcon’s actions didn’t amount to murder.  Kaufman, the homicide detective, was charged with joining
the officers in a conspiracy to conceal what happened at the
bridge. Kaufman was convicted on 10 counts including obstruction
of justice and fabrication of evidence.  ‘See His Father’  Engelhardt said at the sentencing hearing today that he was
restricted by federal guidelines or would have imposed shorter
prison terms. He noted that Faulcon’s son was born after
Katrina.  “He will never see his father outside a prison wall under
this sentencing scheme,” Engelhardt said.  The judge said that five other police officers who pleaded
guilty received much lower sentences. “One can only be
astonished and deeply troubled by the plea bargains allowed in
the Danziger Bridge matter,” he said.  “Using liars to convict liars is no way to pursue
justice,” Engelhardt said, referring to cooperating officers
who testified against the defendants.  Federal prosecutors wouldn’t have had a case without
enlisting the help of cooperating witnesses, Perez, the
assistant attorney general, said in a conference call with
reporters today.  ‘Prosecution Fell Apart’  “It’s important to understand where we were in the year
2008, which was three-plus years after the shooting and the
state prosecution fell apart, frankly, and we had nothing,”
Perez said. “We had to build a case from scratch and you don’t
go to the witness store and pick out witnesses to build a case.
You have to do your leg work and see where you can go.”  Attorneys for the four accused shooters depicted their
clients at trial as dedicated officers who refused to abandon
their posts, rescuing residents from Katrina’s floodwaters both
before and after the shootings.  The defendants claimed they were responding to gunfire and
that they believed the shooting victims were a danger to
themselves and others. They also denied involvement in a cover-
up.  The U.S. said at trial there was no evidence that any of
the civilians had guns.  The judge said the “context of Katrina cannot be ignored”
in the case. This included widespread looting and escalating
fear of gunfire, Engelhardt said.  ‘Enormous Loss’  “In short, one would have to be here to understand the
sheer adversity and enormous loss,” the judge said. “This
excuses none of the criminal conduct herein yet it must be taken
into account.”  Before issuing the sentences, Engelhardt heard testimony at
today’s hearing from several witnesses, including victims or
their relatives, and supporters of the convicted police
officers.  Several police officers and supervisors testified on
Bowen’s behalf, describing desperate rescues, and fear and
exhaustion, in a city heavily flooded by  Hurricane Katrina . “At
night when the sun did go down, there was a lot of sporadic
gunfire,” Officer David Slicho recalled. “Every day when the
sun came up, we’d say -- where’s the federal government?”  Duty First  Faulcon’s mother, Martha Faulcon, said her son put his
police duty to New Orleans first after Katrina hit. “His wife
was 42 weeks pregnant,” she said. Faulcon could have evacuated
with his wife to  Texas ; instead he gave her the keys to the car
and joined other police officers doing rescue work, the mother
said. “He always put other people before him,” she said of her
son.  Lance Madison, whose brother Ronald was killed on the
bridge, asked the judge to impose “maximum sentences” on all
five defendants.  Madison, a former National Football League
kick return specialist, told the judge he and his brother ran
for their lives on the Danziger Bridge when a group of men
opened fire on them.  “I think I ran faster that day than any day in my life,”
Madison said. “I truly do not know why I’m alive today.”  The officers “shot Ronald down like an animal,” Madison
told the judge. “Can you imagine how I felt when I found out
the people that shot him were police officers?” Calling each
defendant by name, Lance Madison then said: “You are
responsible for the nightmares that have haunted my family.”  Convictions Voided  Engelhardt voided convictions on some counts in an Oct. 20
ruling.  Bowen was charged with kicking and stomping Madison as he
lay “on the ground, alive but mortally wounded,” according to
the indictment. Bowen denied the allegation, contending the
witness who accused him of kicking Madison lied.  Engelhardt threw out the conviction on this count, finding
the witness wasn’t credible and the government failed to provide
evidence supporting the claim. “In fact, the government offered
no evidence whatsoever that any type of kick or stomp, by any
person, caused any bodily injury whatsoever to Madison,”
Engelhardt wrote.  The U.S. also alleged that the defendants conspired to
“cover up what happened on the bridge” by filing charges
against Jose Holmes, a civilian who was injured on the bridge,
and Lance Madison.  The judge threw out convictions against Bowen, Gisevius,
Faulcon and Villavaso on the accusation of attempting to
implicate Holmes. Engelhardt found that “the government failed
to prove that any of these defendants specifically identified
Jose Holmes by name.” He also threw out convictions on evidence
grounds against Bowen and Gisevius over claims they attempted to
implicate Lance Madison.  He upheld the jury’s convictions on the other counts.  The case is U.S. v. Bowen, 2:10-cr-00204, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  