-- Nobelist Grass Says Nuclear-Power Israel Threatens Peace
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-04-04T16:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/nobel-winner-grass-says-nuclear-power-israel-threatens-peace.html
Guenter Grass, the Nobel Prize
winning author of “The Tin Drum,” attacked  Israel ’s nuclear
capacity and the threat it poses to Iran in a poem published in
today’s  Sueddeutsche Zeitung  newspaper.  In the poem titled  “What Has to Be Said,”  Grass says that
Israel, as a nuclear power “is endangering already-fragile
world peace.” He describes its nuclear potential as “out of
control, because no one can examine it.”  He criticizes Germany for promising to deliver a submarine
to Israel whose specialty is “directing warheads of mass
destruction to a place where the existence of a single nuclear
bomb is unproven.” Israel, he says, maintains its right of
first strike against the Iranian people, whom he describes as
“enslaved by a braggart, forced into organized jubilation.”  Grass, who is 84, unleashed a storm of criticism with his
poem.  Germany ’s best-known author last provoked an uproar in
2006, when he revealed -- after 61 years of silence -- that he
joined a Waffen SS unit in 1944.  The Israeli Embassy in Berlin said in a  statement  that
Grass’s comment “is part of a European tradition to accuse the
Jews of ritual murder before Passover.”  “In the past it was Christian children whose blood the
Jews apparently wanted to use to make unleavened bread, today it
is the Iranian people that the Jewish state apparently wants to
wipe out,” Emmanuel Nahshon, a diplomat at the Israeli embassy,
said in the statement on the embassy Website.  Adding that Israel is the only state in the world whose
right to exist is publicly questioned, the embassy said Israel
“wants to live in peace with our neighbors in the region.”  Weapons Inspections  Grass’s poem urges the global community to call on Israel
as the “cause of recognizable danger” to abstain from violence
and both countries to allow “unhindered and permanent
inspections by an international authority of Israel’s nuclear
potential and the Iranian nuclear facilities.”  German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle today warned
against “understating the dangers of  Iran ’s nuclear program.”  In a statement sent by e-mail, he said an Iran with nuclear
weapons would be “a threat not just to Israel and the region,
but to the entire world security structure.” He added that a
 Middle East  free of nuclear weapons is the goal of the German
government.  In his poem, Grass takes himself to task for his silence on
the issue so far, saying his German heritage is “cursed with an
indelible stain that prevents” him from criticizing Israel, a
country which he says he “is and will remain attached to.”  ‘Anti-Semitism’  Israel’s critics easily attract “the verdict ‘anti-
Semitism,’” Grass wrote.  Writing in the Welt newspaper’s online edition, the
columnist Henryk M. Broder today called Grass “the prototype of
an educated anti-Semite.”  Grass was awarded the  Nobel Prize  for literature in 1999.
He was praised by the jury for “coming to grips with the
enormous task of reviewing contemporary history recalling the
disavowed and the forgotten: the victims, losers and lies that
people wanted to forget because they had once believed in
them” in his 1959 novel “The Tin Drum,” set in his home town 
of Danzig before the outbreak of World War II.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 