-- NYC ‘Taxi of Tomorrow’ to Be Minivans With Phone Chargers
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/nyc-taxi-of-tomorrow-to-be-minivans-with-phone-chargers.html
New York City (9315MF) ’s next generation of
yellow cabs will be minivans featuring sliding doors,
antibacterial seats, airbags in the back and outlets to charge
mobile phones.  City officials unveiled the “Taxi of Tomorrow,”
manufactured by  Nissan Motor Co. (NSANY) , at the  New York International
Auto Show  yesterday. The vehicle, on display to the public from
April 6 to April 15, was engineered to be durable enough to
handle the city’s 6,300 miles (10,136 kilometers) of pothole
riddled streets, according to Nissan officials.  New Yorkers  will begin hailing the new cabs in the fall of
2013 as the  NV200 minivan , priced at $29,700, replaces the
city’s fleet of 16 taxi models by 2018. Nissan beat  Ford Motor
Co. (F)  -- maker of the Crown Victoria taxi that’s most common today
-- and Turkey’s and  Karsan Otomotiv Sanayi & Ticaret AS (KARSN)  to
clinch the 10-year contract in May.  “The fact that we have been selected means a lot about the
versatility of the platform” of Nissan’s NV 200 model,
currently available as a cargo-toting van,  Carlos Ghosn , chief
executive officer of Nissan and  Renault SA (RNO) , said in an
interview, after presenting the cab at a reception yesterday
attended by Mayor  Michael Bloomberg . “You can adapt this
product exactly to the city’s very demanding needs in terms of
safety, comfort,  fuel efficiency , emissions, modernity.”  Transparent Roof  The Nissan cab will also be equipped with a transparent
roof, fuel-efficient engine, flat floors with no hump, 10 inches
(25 centimeters) more legroom than a Crown Victoria and more
luggage space than most current cabs, according to the city  Taxi
and Limousine Commission .  Nissan,  Japan ’s second-biggest automaker after  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) , expects the cab to be a significant vehicle because of
the exposure as New York’s taxi, though it won’t necessarily be
a massive seller in overall units, said Tim Gallagher, a company
spokesman.  The city’s taxis are currently built by nine manufacturers,
dominated by Ford’s discontinued Crown Victoria.  New York City 
is currently the only established taxi market for the  NV200
minivan , now sold as a delivery vehicle in Japan and  Europe .  The vehicles will be produced in  Mexico  and fitted for taxi
use by American workers, city officials said last May.  It’s the first New York taxi to be crash tested with the
partition between driver and passengers installed, Mayor
Bloomberg said. The sliding doors will protect riders from
risking getting clipped by passing traffic, he said.  10-Year Contract  “This taxi was designed from the inside out and the result
is the safest, most comfortable, most passenger-friendly cab to
ever ride our streets,” Bloomberg said. “For the first time
our city will have a cab designed for those who matter most --
the passengers and drivers.”  The contract is estimated to generate $1 billion in revenue
for Nissan over the contract’s 10 years.  The number of cabs will total 15,237, taking into account
2,000 more handicapped-accessible vehicles state lawmakers
authorized in December. The mayor had sought the added liveries
to reap more than $1 billion for the city’s $68.7 billion 2013
budget.  New York  City taxi  medallions sell  for about $705,000 for
individuals and $1 million for corporate operators, according to
TLC’s website. Increasing the number of medallions by 2,000
shouldn’t dilute the value for current owners, said TLC
Commissioner David Yassky, citing previous expansions of the
fleet during the past 20 years.  Antimicrobial Vinyl Resin  “History suggests there’s plenty of demand for them and
market value has only continued to increase,” Yassky said in an
interview.  About 600,000 riders use taxis each day, and a typical cab
might carry about 30 passengers per shift, said TLC spokesman
Allan Fromberg.  The new seats will consist of a leather-like fabric woven
with an antimicrobial vinyl resin. Odor eaters include
passenger-controlled air-filtration and cooling systems, Nissan
says on its website. Other amenities include reading lights
overhead and floor lighting below. Chargers with 12-volt
electric outlets and two USB ports may be used to power up
mobile devices.  City officials felt they needed to give one carmaker an
exclusive contract to give a manufacturer the incentive to
include passenger amenities and durability features while
keeping the price low, Yassky said.  Replacing Ford  Until the Nissan cars are available, Ford, based in
Dearborn,  Michigan , may continue selling its “Transit Connect”
taxi model to city cab operators, Fromberg said.  “It is being well received around the country and we’re
committed to the business,” said Kevin Koswick, director of
Ford’s North American fleet, lease and remarketing division, in
an interview after a March 27 speech he gave to the Automotive
Press Association in  Detroit . “We’ll see where it goes in New
York.”  The city’s current fleet of 13,237 now includes 3,983
hybrids, five that run on compressed natural gas and 17 “clean
diesel” cabs, according to the commission. Yellow became the
uniform color by law in 1967. Cabs have a life cycle of about
three to five years, after which they must be replaced.  The company drew criticism yesterday from city Public
Advocate Bill de Blasio and Dov Hikind, a Democratic state
Assemblyman from  Brooklyn , who called on Nissan to stop
conducting business in  Iran , where de Blasio said the company
sells about 7,500 vehicles a year. Ghosn said the company
complies with U.S. and Japanese laws.  “If we didn’t we would stop immediately,” Ghosn said.
“We don’t want to take any risk here.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  