-- Obama Health Remarks Draw Order for U.S. View on Court
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-04-04T15:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/obama-health-remarks-draw-order-for-u-s-view-on-court.html
A federal appeals court hearing a
challenge to part of the 2010 health-care law ordered President
Barack Obama’s administration to give its view on whether the
U.S.  Supreme Court  can strike down laws it considers
unconstitutional.  Obama, a Democrat, said April 2 that it would amount to
“judicial activism” for the Supreme Court to throw out the
statute. The high court last week heard three days of arguments
on challenges to the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act,
which requires Americans to obtain health insurance.  U.S. Circuit Judge Jerry Smith, who was appointed by  Ronald
Reagan , a Republican, asked U.S. Justice Department lawyer Dana
Lydia Kaersvang during oral arguments in Houston yesterday to supply
the administration’s position on so-called judicial review. The
appeals court is reviewing a provision of the law that blocks
federal medical payments to certain hospitals.  “I’m referring to statements by the president in the past
few days to the effect, I’m sure you’ve heard about them, that
it is somehow inappropriate for what he termed ‘unelected’
judges to strike acts of Congress that have enjoyed -- he was
referring, of course, to Obamacare -- what he termed broad
consensus in majorities in both houses of Congress,’’ Smith said
during yesterday’s session, according to a recording posted on
the court’s website.  ‘Single Spaced’  The department must submit a written statement of “no less
than three pages, single spaced,” to the New Orleans-based
appeals court by noon on April 5, according to a court filing
yesterday.  The president’s statement “has troubled a number of people
who have read it as somehow a challenge to the federal courts or
to their authority to the appropriateness of the concept of
judicial review,’’ Smith said. “So I want to be sure that
you’re telling us the attorney general and the  Department of
Justice  do recognize the authority of the federal courts through
unelected judges to strike acts of Congress or portions thereof
in appropriate cases.’’  Kaersvang replied that while judicial review is “the law
of the land,’’ the government believes “it would not make sense
in this circumstance to strike down this statute.’’  Smith interrupted Kaersvang and ordered the Justice
Department to clarify its position in writing, “as it relates
to the specific statements of the president regarding Obamacare
and the authority of federal courts to review that
legislation.’’  Texas Doctors  The appellate panel is considering a bid by a Texas
physicians’ group that sued U.S. Secretary of Health and Human
Services Kathleen Sebelius last year. The group is seeking to
overturn a provision of the law that restricts growth by
physician-owned hospitals in ways that don’t apply to other
hospitals, according to court papers.  Charles Miller , a  Justice Department  spokesman, declined in an
e-mail yesterday to comment on the appellate court order. Scott Oostdyk, lead lawyer for the Texas doctors challenging the law,
declined to comment in a phone interview yesterday.  The case is Physician Hospitals of America v. Sebelius, 11-
40631,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth Circuit ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  