-- Obama Signs Ban on Congressional Insider Stock Trading
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   D e r e k   W a l l b a n k
-- 2012-04-04T16:50:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/obama-signs-ban-on-congressional-insider-stock-trading.html
President  Barack Obama  signed into
law a bill strengthening the ban on insider trading by members
of Congress and other government officials who might profit on
private knowledge they gain from work.  “We were sent here to serve the American people and look
out for their interests, not to look out for our own
interests,” Obama said at a signing ceremony in  Washington ,
joined by Republican and Democratic members of Congress. “There
is a deficit of trust between this city and the rest of the
country.”  The president had called for passage of the bill,  S. 2038 ,
in his State of the Union message in January. It is called the
 Stock Act , for Stop Trading on Congressional Knowledge.  The law prohibits lawmakers, their staffs and some
executive branch employees from trading stocks, commodities or
futures based on private information they learn on the job. It
would prevent lawmakers from participating in initial public
offerings that aren’t available to the general public.  The Stock Act “is an important step toward ensuring that
members of Congress and federal officials don’t profit from
insider information and abide by the same rules as everyone
else,” House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia
Republican, said in a statement.  28,000 Officials Covered  Senator  Joe Lieberman , a Connecticut independent who
caucuses with Democrats and was one of the bill’s sponsors, has
called the measure “the most significant congressional ethics
reform in at least five years.”  Under terms of the new law, more than 28,000 senior
government officials who already must file public disclosures,
including the president, the vice president, cabinet members,
lawmakers and their staffs, must publicly report all trades
valued at $1,000 or more within 30 days after they are informed
of the transaction, and in no case any later than 45 days after
the transaction occurred. The rule wouldn’t apply to widely held
investment funds.  The House passed the measure Feb. 9 by a 417-2 vote, and
the Senate followed March 22 by a vote of 96-3.  Bills to tighten  insider-trading  rules on members of
Congress had languished until late last year, when CBS’s “60
Minutes” program reported that lawmakers could legally trade
stock based on non-public information, giving the legislation
new urgency.  House Leaders Traded  The report by Steve Kroft said that some members of
Congress, including House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio
Republican, and Minority Leader  Nancy Pelosi , a California
Democrat, had bought stock in companies while legislation that
might affect those businesses was being debated. Both denied any
wrongdoing.  The bill also was propelled by Congress’s low public
opinion ratings. The  Gallup poll  reported March 21 that 82
percent of Americans disapprove of the job Congress is doing
while 12 percent approve. The poll was conducted March 8-11.  The public approval rating is “essentially flat,” Gallup
said, compared with the 10 percent approval rating in its
February poll, a record low.  “This law is a strong step forward to begin restoring our
trust with the American people,” Senator  Kirsten Gillibrand , a
New York Democrat, said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Derek Wallbank in Washington at 
 dwallbank@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  