-- Oil Falls a Second Day on Supply as Fed May Halt Stimulus
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-04-04T11:25:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/oil-falls-a-second-day-on-supply-as-fed-may-halt-stimulus.html
Oil dropped for a second day amid
rising crude stockpiles and speculation the  Federal Reserve  may
refrain from more monetary stimulus to boost the  U.S. economy .  Futures slipped as much as 1.1 percent in  New York ,
extending yesterday’s drop. An American Petroleum Institute
inventory report after the market closed showed an increase in
crude supplies three times larger than analysts expect a
separate report from the Energy Department to show later today.
Federal Reserve minutes from a March policy meeting showed it
plans to hold off from increasing monetary accommodation unless
economic expansion falters.  “I don’t think we really have a problem with supply right
now,” said Sintje Boie, an analyst at  HSH Nordbank  in Hamburg
who predicts  Brent crude  will stay at about $120 a barrel until
the middle of the year. “We’ll only see  oil prices  between $130
and $150 if there’s an escalation in the conflict with  Iran . But
I think we’ll get some kind of diplomatic solution.”  Oil for May delivery declined as much as $1.18 to $102.83 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $102.90 as of 12:22 p.m. London time after
losing 1.2 percent yesterday. Crude has advanced 4.5 percent
this year.  Brent oil for May settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell as much as 81 cents, or 0.7
percent, at $124.05 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a  premium  of $21.20 to New York futures, compared with
$20.85 yesterday, the widest closing level since October.  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. crude inventories probably increased 2.5 million
barrels in the week ended March 30 to 355.9 million, the highest
since August, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News before today’s Energy Department
data. The government report is due at 10:30 a.m. Washington
time. The industry-funded API yesterday said supplies gained 7.8
million barrels, the most since Dec. 23.  Gasoline stockpiles are estimated to have  decreased  1.4
million barrels and distillate-fuel supplies probably slid
500,000 barrels, according to the survey. Yesterday’s API report
showed gasoline inventories fell 4.5 million barrels and
distillates dropped 1.4 million.  “While we see builds, we’ll see the crude market under
pressure,” said  Jonathan Barratt , chief executive of Barratt’s
Bulletin, a commodity markets newsletter in Sydney. “Let’s see
what the DOE data says. It’s all suggesting the economy is
slowing at a time when the Fed is putting the brakes on any form
of easing. It could create volatility in the market.”  Mastercard SpendingPulse  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey, which is known to traders as
the DOE report.  The U.S. is the world’s largest oil consumer. Motorists in
the country bought 8.87 million barrels a days of gasoline last
week, according to MasterCard Inc.’s SpendingPulse report
yesterday. That’s down 3.5 percent from a year earlier.  Oil in New York is falling after the moving average
convergence/divergence indicator dropped below zero yesterday
for the first time in seven weeks, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Investors tend to sell contracts when the MACD
indicator signals a loss of technical momentum.  In the reported minutes yesterday, the Fed also affirmed
its plan, first announced in January, to hold  interest rates 
near zero through late 2014, as the economy’s improvement may
not be sufficient to lower the outlook for coming years,
according to the minutes released yesterday in  Washington .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  