-- Oil Declines After U.S. Stockpiles Surge the Most Since 2
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-04-04T20:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/oil-falls-as-u-s-supplies-climb-in-api-report.html
Oil tumbled after the Energy
Department said U.S. stockpiles surged the most since 2008 as
domestic crude output climbed to the highest level in 12 years.  Futures fell to a seven-week low as  inventories  rose 9.01
million barrels to 362.4 million last week, the most since June.
Production gained 2.9 percent to 6.05 million barrels a day. Oil
also decreased after the  Federal Reserve  signaled it may refrain
from more monetary stimulus.  “U.S. inventories are obviously more than ample,” said
Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist at Confluence Investment
Management in  St. Louis , which oversees $1.3 billion. “U.S.
production keeps increasing. This proves that when prices rise
high enough, producers are going to find new ways to bring
supply to market.”  Crude oil for May delivery dropped $2.54, or 2.4 percent,
to $101.47 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
lowest settlement since Feb. 14. Prices have increased 2.7
percent this year.  Brent oil for May settlement fell $2.52, or 2 percent, to
end the session at $122.34 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange. The European benchmark contract settled
at a $20.87  premium  to West Texas Intermediate, the grade traded
in  New York , the widest spread since October.  U.S. crude output last week was at the highest level since
December 1999. Domestic production averaged over four weeks rose
5.2 percent from a year earlier, the department said.  Surging Output  The surge in U.S. oil production reflects a change in the
way the department estimates output, said Barbara Mariner-Volpe,
who is in charge of the oil and gas supply statistics. The
weekly estimates rely on monthly production tallies that the
department calculates using state reports and Interior
Department data, she said.  In the past, the Energy Department revised its monthly
figures once a year based on updated state and federal numbers,
she said. In April, the department began incorporating that
information on a monthly basis.  Crude  imports  climbed 5.4 percent to 9.77 million barrels a
day last week, the highest level since the period ended Jan. 6.
 Fuel imports  surged 15 percent to 2.04 million barrels a day,
the most in two months.  Supplies of crude oil were projected to rise 2.5 million
barrels, according to the median estimate of 11 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Test $100  “We’re going to probably test $100 in the next week and go
lower,” said Todd Horwitz, chief strategist at Adam Mesh
Trading Group in New York.  Stockpiles at  Cushing, Oklahoma (DOESCROK) , the delivery point for New
York futures, rose 729,000 barrels to 40.3 million, the highest
level since May, the report showed.  “Rising production here is the reason WTI is trading at
such a big discount to Brent,” O’Grady said.  Oil also fell after the Federal Reserve signaled it may
refrain from further monetary accommodation unless the economy
falters or prices rise at a rate slower than its 2 percent
target, according to the minutes of its March 13 policy meeting
released yesterday.  The central bank affirmed its plan, first announced in
January, to hold  interest rates  near zero through late 2014 as
the economy’s improvement may not be sufficient to lower the
outlook for coming years. There had been speculation the Fed
would proceed with a third round of bond purchases in a tactic
that has been dubbed quantitative easing. The Fed bought a total
of $2.3 trillion in bonds from December 2008 to June 2011.  Quantitative Easing  “The release of the Fed minutes have confirmed to the
market that there won’t be any QE3,” said Marshall Berol, co-
portfolio manager of the Encompass Fund in  San Francisco , which
manages about $300 million of assets. “The inventory numbers
add to the negative sentiment.”  Markets also moved lower after  Spain  sold fewer bonds than
its maximum target, bolstering concern that the European debt
crisis will spread. Spain sold 2.59 billion euros ($3.4 billion)
of bonds today, just above the minimum amount it planned for the
auction and below the 3.5 billion-euro maximum target.  “We were down before the inventory report because of the
Fed minutes” and the bond auction in Spain, said  Chip Hodge ,
who oversees a $9 billion natural-resource bond portfolio as
senior managing director at Manulife Asset Management in  Boston .
“Absent a supply shock, supplies should be fine.”  Equity Decline  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was down 0.9 percent at
3:14 p.m. The dollar strengthened 0.7 percent versus the euro. A
stronger U.S. currency reduces the appeal of raw materials as an
investment. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities
dropped 1.8 percent, led by silver and cotton.  “There’s no reason to have any view of the markets other
than risk off,” Berol said.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 591,428
contracts as of 4:08 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 542,362
contracts yesterday, 17 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.57 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  