-- Hollande Says He’d Seek EU Fiscal Pact Revamp, Freeze Gas Prices
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 2012-04-04T12:57:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/hollande-says-he-d-seek-eu-fiscal-pact-revamp-freeze-gas-prices.html
French Socialist presidential
candidate  Francois Hollande  said if elected he would freeze  gas
prices  and seek agreement on revamping a European Union fiscal
treaty in June by adding stimulus measures.  Hollande released a plan for a first year in office today
if he’s elected in the May 6 final ballot in a race against
President  Nicolas Sarkozy . The blueprint,  released on Hollande’s
website , said he would discuss changing the fiscal accord, which
stiffens budget rules to stabilize the euro, at a June 28-29
summit of EU leaders.  Presenting his plan one day before Sarkozy is due to issue
his platform, Hollande said he would freeze retail prices for
gasoline in the first days of his presidency for three months
and increase social benefits for schoolchildren by 25 percent.  Hollande, who leads Sarkozy in polls for the run-off,
maintained his promise to withdraw all French troops from
 Afghanistan  by the end of 2012, more than a year ahead of
schedule. Hollande said he would present details on the pullout
at a NATO  summit  in  Chicago  next month.  State spending would rise by 20 billion euros ($26.3
billion) over the five-year presidential term, Hollande said. At
the same time, tax increases and eliminating loopholes would
raise 29 billion euros of additional revenue over the same
period, he said. The budget plan will aim for a zero-deficit
target in 2017, one year later than under Sarkozy’s plan, with a
3 percent of gross domestic product deficit target for 2013.  Higher Taxes  Parliament would vote on Hollande’s fiscal reform that
would include higher taxes for big companies and lower ones for
small and medium-sized businesses. It would also vote on a 75
percent income tax for people earning above 1 million euros a
year and special taxes on banks and  oil companies , according to
his plan, which didn’t provide further details.  He said a bill to split banks’ retail and investment
activities would also be submitted to a vote as early as July.  The lawmaker and former Socialist Party chief said he would
cut  France ’s share of power from nuclear energy to 50 percent
from the current 75 percent by 2025.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Vidya Root at
   vroot@bloomberg.net  