-- Omnicom-Interpublic Provide GDP Plays for Bullish U.S.
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-04-04T05:13:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/omnicom-interpublic-provide-gdp-plays-for-bullish-u-s-.html
Ad revenue is rising as U.S.
automobile and retail sales rebound, a sign Americans are
feeling more confident in the months leading up to the Olympic
Games, a $4 billion opportunity for advertisers.  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)  and  Interpublic Group of Companies Inc. 
offer bullish investors a “GDP play,” because their U.S.
revenue historically has grown about 2 percent to 3 percent more
than gross domestic product, said Richard Tullo, an analyst with
Albert Fried & Co. in New York, where the two agencies are
based. When the economy expanded 1.7 percent in 2011, Omincom’s
domestic revenue grew 5.5 percent and Interpublic’s was up 4.8
percent, Commerce Department and company data show.  “As the economy continues to improve, these stocks will
have more wind at their backs,” Tullo said. Car sales, housing
starts and the financial markets have picked up in recent months
-- “good news” for Omnicom and Interpublic, which generate
about 17 percent of revenue from automobiles, followed by about
11 percent from finance, he said.  Americans bought cars and light trucks at a 14.4 million
seasonally adjusted annual pace in March, up 10 percent from a
year earlier, according to data released yesterday by Autodata
Corp. Builders broke ground in February on 698,000 homes at an
annual rate, near a  three-year high , Census data show.  As global GDP recovers, this year’s  Olympic Games  and U.S.
presidential election bode “incredibly well” for more
advertising revenue, said Mark Lamkin, founder and chief
executive officer at Lamkin Wealth Management in Louisville,
 Kentucky .  Exchange-Traded Fund  His  investment company  bought shares in January of an
exchange-traded fund that includes Omnicom and Interpublic
because Lamkin said he was encouraged by an estimate from Paris-
based agency  Publicis Group SA (PUB) , that global ad spending could
grow 4.7 percent to a record $486 billion this year.  “I don’t think this increase is fully reflected yet,”
Lamkin said. Now is “a good opportunity” to buy media stocks,
including ad agencies.  Omnicom and Interpublic accounted for 18 percent and 9
percent of worldwide revenue for the top ad agencies in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Concerns about another U.S. recession have diminished since
late fall, when there was heightened uncertainty about the
potential fallout from Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, said
 David Hensley , director of global economic coordination at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York. Amid some clarity that euro-
area leaders have contained the problems, investors are
revisiting cyclical industries, such as advertising, as they’ve
“become more comfortable with moderate growth assumptions.”  No Raised Forecasts  “Not a lot of people are raising forecasts, though they’re
intrigued by the idea that may be necessary,” he said.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Advertising Index, comprised of
Omnicom and Interpublic, has increased 42 percent since Sept.
22, 2011, while the  S&P 500  gained 25 percent. That followed two
months of underperformance, when ad stocks lagged behind the
market by 16 percent.  The advertising index experienced an “accelerated push
higher” between September and November, said Jim Stellakis,
founder and director of research at New York-based research
company Technical Alpha. Momentum has slowed since February as
these stocks have consolidated some of their gains and
“investors are in somewhat of a holding pattern.”  Investors haven’t given “full credit” to the potential
impact of the London-based Olympics, which increases the
probability these companies may exceed earnings estimates, Tullo
said. Omnicom and Interpublic have accounts, including  Nike
Inc. (NKE) , that will advertise during the games, so now is a “good
opportunity” to buy these stocks, he said.  Existing Budgets  The event, scheduled for July 27 through Aug. 12, could
generate as much as $4 billion in global advertising revenue, up
from $3.5 billion for the 2008 Olympics in Beijing, Tullo said,
citing industry estimates. The “tricky” part of estimating
total spending is that many advertisers “add on to existing
budgets,” he said.  Low valuations also make these stocks attractive, Tullo
said, because they are trading “close to the bottom” of their
historic range: Omnicom at a multiple of about eight times
enterprise value to earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, and Interpublic at about nine
times. That compares with a range of six to 14 times, he said.  ‘Better Positioned’  Advertising companies are “better positioned” to beat
earnings estimates because analysts cut forecasts late last year
“pretty aggressively” when Europe’s debt crisis “started to
get bumpy again,” said  David Bank , an analyst in  New York  at
 RBC Capital Markets . Analyst projections for Omnicom’s 2012
earnings are $3.68 a share on a GAAP-adjusted basis, down about
2.6 percent from an Aug. 1, 2011, consensus of $3.78.  Revenue growth will benefit from the industry’s
multinational focus, Bank said. He maintains “outperform”
recommendations on Omnicom and Interpublic, partly because of
their penetration in high-growth markets such as  Latin America 
and  Asia , where customers are increasing advertising budgets.  In 2011, 49 percent of Omnicom’s revenue and 45 percent of
Interpublic’s came from outside the U.S., company data show.  As investors regain confidence in the economic outlook,
their perception of risk has changed “a lot,” said Hensley,
who forecasts “above average” expansion in the U.S.,  Brazil 
and  emerging markets , excluding  China , during the balance of
this year. The U.S. may “pick up speed” in 2012, with close to
3 percent annual growth in the second and third quarters, he
said; that compares with a forecast of 2.2 percent for the full
year, according to the median estimate of 70 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News.  ‘Mixed’ European Results  So far, results have been “mixed” for Omnicom in  Europe ,
where euro-denominated business accounted for 18.6 percent of
its 2011 revenue, Chief Financial Officer Randall Weisenburger
said on a Feb. 14 conference call. Similarly, continental Europe
remains a “question mark” for Interpublic, which generated
about 13 percent of revenue last year from the region, Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer  Michael Roth  said at a Feb. 29
conference hosted by Deutsche Bank AG.  If European leaders “don’t settle their problems, and it
spills over to the rest of the world,” it may spell “bad
news” for Interpublic, Roth said.  Both companies’ stocks could underperform again as they did
between July and September amid worries of another recession
spreading beyond the region, said Tullo, adding that their
global exposure might mitigate the impact. Media deregulation in
the  Middle East ,  Africa  and southern Europe puts the industry
“on the verge of another expansion” that’s “global and
gigantic” in scope, he said.  Multinational Companies  Interpublic’s fourth-quarter growth came from most regions
of the world, and there’s “no question” multinational
companies are looking to add business, particularly in emerging
markets, Roth said on a Feb. 24 conference call. Similarly,
Omnicom “continued to have good results in Latin America, most
notably in Brazil and  Chile ,” Weisenburger said.  The “immense” correlation between GDP growth and spending
on advertising as the world’s major economies continue to
rebound will benefit an industry that’s “somewhat
underappreciated,” Bank said.  The data “certainly aren’t getting worse, and against a
backdrop of financial markets getting better, sentiment with
respect to marketing and ad spend is improving,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in New York at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  