-- Honda’s Acura Goes Hybrid in Challenge to BMW, Mercedes
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-04-05T01:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/honda-s-acura-flagship-goes-hybrid-to-counter-bmw-mercedes-v-8s.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  wants to boost sales
of its Acura premium brand with a new “flagship” sedan that
uses two electric motors and a V-6 gasoline engine to generate
V-8 luxury-car power and small-car fuel economy.  The RLX, replacing the current RL sedan, goes on sale early
next year, Honda said at the car’s debut yesterday at the  New
York  International Auto Show. The large hybrid sedan uses a new
3.5-liter gasoline engine which, in combination with the
electric motors and lithium-ion battery pack, delivers 370
horsepower while averaging 30 miles (48 kilometers) per gallon
in combined city and highway driving, Honda said.  The model follows the revamped RDX crossover, on sale this
month, and ILX sedan due in May as Honda seeks to make Acura,
the oldest premium brand from an Asian carmaker, a stronger
competitor to  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s
Mercedes-Benz and  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus. Honda targets a 46
percent increase in Acura U.S. sales this year.  While Honda makes high-powered V-8s for race cars, the
Tokyo-based company has avoided them in Honda- and Acura-brand
sedans and light trucks. The RLX is positioned against premium
sedans, including BMW’s high-powered 5 Series and 7 Series,
Mercedes’ E-Class and Lexus GS and LS models, that have base
prices ranging between $47,000 and $71,000.  The RLX “is significant in terms of the gains in gas
mileage, but does the buyer in that segment really put gas
mileage as a top priority?” said  Jesse Toprak , an industry
analyst for TrueCar.com in  Santa Monica , California. “Styling,
prestige, the brand image, tend to be more important for these
buyers.”  ‘Acura DNA’  Tetsuo Iwamura, Honda’s executive vice president, said in a
December interview the company’s new hybrid and “super-
handling” all-wheel-drive system that’s being used on both the
RLX and racing-style NSX supercar that goes on sale in about two
years will distinguish Acura from competitors.  “We have created a true luxury sedan based on our Acura
DNA,” Iwamura, who is also president and head of Honda’s U.S.
unit, said in a statement yesterday.  Separately, Lexus yesterday in New York showed a redesigned
ES sedan, a competitor to Acura’s TL, that will also be
available this year in a hybrid version for the first time.
 Lexus  already sells hybrid CT hatchbacks and HS sedans to luxury
buyers, as well as gasoline-electric versions of its RX sport-
utility vehicle and GS and LS sedans.  The 2013 ES 300h, featuring the “spindle” grille Lexus
previously added to its revamped GS sedan, will combine a 4-
cylinder engine with a battery pack and motor that gives the car
a combined 40 mpg in city and highway driving, the company said.
The front-wheel drive sedan will also be sold with a 3.5-liter
V-6, Lexus said.  Acura’s Peak  Acura U.S. sales peaked at 209,610 vehicles in 2005 and
slid to 123,299 last year. Honda wants the brand to sell 180,000
cars and trucks in 2012.  A base version of the RLX will be offered as a front-wheel
drive model with only a V-6 engine car, the company said. Honda
didn’t give pricing for either version, or immediately provide
an annual sales target for the RLX.  Sales of RL, Acura’s top-end sedan since 1996, peaked at
17,572 in 2005. U.S. deliveries of the model, which has a
$47,700 base price, plunged to 1,096 last year.  The RLX’s fuel economy is 50 percent better than the
current RL, which averages 20 mpg, according to Acura’s website.  The exterior look of the RLX may be too conservative,
Toprak said. “They got the gas mileage right, but the styling
may be wrong.”  Acura is based in Torrance,  California . Honda’s American
depositary receipts fell 2.8 percent to $37.32 at the close in
New York yesterday. They’ve risen 22 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  