-- Honduras Complains at WTO Over Australia Tobacco-Logo Ban
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-04-04T15:08:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/honduras-complains-at-wto-over-australia-tobacco-logo-ban.html
Honduras complained at the  World
Trade Organization  about an Australian law that prohibits the
display of tobacco companies’ logos, labels and trademarks,
saying the ban violates global rules on intellectual property.  As of Dec. 1, cigarettes in  Australia  will have to be sold
in dark brown packets, with no symbols or images and the same
font for all brands.  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM) ,  Imperial
Tobacco Group Plc (IMP) ,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS)  and  Japan
Tobacco Inc. (2914)  are challenging the law and will present their
arguments against it in Canberra beginning April 17.  “Honduras has decided to take this action given that
Australia’s law contravenes several WTO obligations on
intellectual-property rights and technical barriers to trade,
and given the serious economic consequences that this measure
would have on Honduran tobacco exports,” the country’s WTO
ambassador, Dacio Castillo, said in an e-mailed statement.  Today’s complaint at the Geneva-based trade arbiter follows
a similar move by Ukraine on March 15. The two governments say
the scientific evidence on which Australia’s law is based is
insufficient and that the plain-packaging rules will
unnecessarily restrict trade because Australia’s public-health
goal can be met by other means.  Smoking Deaths  Smoking kills 15,000 Australians annually and costs about
A$31 billion ($32 billion) in yearly health and workplace
expenses, the government says. With 15 percent of the population
14 years old or over smoking daily, it’s the country’s top drug
and preventable health issue, Australian officials say.  The tobacco industry employs several hundred thousand
people directly and indirectly in  Honduras , Castillo said,
adding that “this translates into tens of millions of dollars
for the economy.”  The Honduran complaint will probably be joined with
 Ukraine’s . Today’s request for consultations is the first step
in the case and means the governments must now hold talks for at
least two months in a bid to resolve the dispute. After that,
WTO judges can be asked to rule. Rulings are typically made
within six months, after which either side can appeal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  