-- Monsanto Raises Forecast as Profit Tops Estimates on Corn
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-04-04T20:14:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/monsanto-raises-forecast-as-profit-tops-estimates-on-corn.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s largest
seed company, raised its full-year earnings forecast and
reported second-quarter profit that exceeded analysts’ estimates
as an early U.S. spring boosted corn plantings.  Net income rose 19 percent to a $1.21 billion, or $2.24 a
share, in the three months through February, from $1.02 billion,
or $1.88, a year earlier, St. Louis-based Monsanto said today in
a statement. Earnings excluding legal costs were a record $2.28,
topping the $2.12 average of 17 analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Monsanto said it will earn $3.49 to $3.54 a share in the 12
months through August, a 10-cent increase from the company’s
January forecast. The average estimate of 19 analysts was $3.52.
Second-quarter revenue rose 15 percent to $4.75 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Hugh Grant  said on a conference
call that he expects to gain market share in U.S. corn seed for
a second year as farmers buy more SmartStax, which has eight
genetic changes enabling it to tolerate herbicides and kill
bugs. Sales in the quarter benefited from warm U.S. weather that
is leading to early orders, Monsanto said.  “They have a lot of things going right for them: corn
acreage, weather, strong crop prices,” Chris Shaw, an analyst
at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co. who recommends selling the shares,
said today in a telephone interview. “The largest beat in my
model was corn seed.”  Flat Half  Monsanto fell 1.5 percent to $80.58 at the close in  New
York .  Profit in the six months through August may be unchanged
from a year earlier because early plantings shifted some sales
and royalty payments into the first half, Chief Financial
Officer Pierre Courduroux said on a conference call.  “We expect overall earnings for the second half of the
year to be effectively flat,” Courduroux said. “The first-half
results largely capture the growth we expect to reach in our
full-year guidance.”  Monsanto raised its full-year forecast for free  cash flow 
by $300 million to $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion. In the second
quarter, sales of seeds and genetic licenses rose 15 percent as
farmers in the U.S. and Latin America increased purchases of
corn, the largest unit, Monsanto said. Gross profit from seeds
climbed 17 percent as gains in corn, soybeans and cotton
outpaced a Europe-led decline in vegetable seeds.  Seed Supplies  Grant said today most of the seed supplies from winter
nurseries in  Latin America  have arrived in the U.S. and will
allow the company to meet demand, unlike some of its smaller
competitors.  Farmers may plant 95.864 million acres with corn, a 4.3
percent increase from last year and the biggest corn crop in 75
years, the Department of Agriculture said March 30. At current
prices, farmers in some parts of the Midwest can make more than
twice as much from an acre of corn as from soybeans, according
to AgStar Financial Services ACA in Rochester,  Minnesota .  The U.S. and corn in particular will drive profit growth
this year, Courduroux said. Soybean gross profit may fall
because of lower sales in  Brazil , and vegetables-seed earnings
may drop because of a decline in European sales, he said.  In  Illinois , the biggest corn-growing state after  Iowa ,
farmers have already started seeding following recent record
high temperatures, the USDA said last week.  U.S farm net income may be $91.7 billion this year, the
second-highest total on record, according to the USDA. Corn is
the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in 2011, followed
by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures show.  Monsanto got 54 percent of its revenue from the U.S. in
fiscal 2011, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  