-- Monsoon Rain in India Seen More Than Normal for Third Year
-- B y   P r a t i k   P a r i j a   a n d   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a
-- 2012-04-04T08:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/monsoon-rain-in-india-seen-more-than-normal-for-third-year-2-.html
Monsoon rainfall in  India , the
world’s second-biggest producer of rice, wheat and sugar, may be
more than a 50-year average for a third year, potentially
helping the nation curb food prices and sustain exports.  Rainfall in the June-to-September season may exceed the
average of 89 centimeters (35 inches) according to the so-called
coupled forecast model, B.N. Goswami, director at the Indian
Institute of Tropical Meteorology, said in a phone interview
from Pune yesterday.  The strength of the monsoon helps to shape India’s economic
prospects, with agriculture making up about 15 percent of  Asia ’s
third-largest economy. Goswami’s institute is among those from
across the country that feed data and projections to the  India
Meteorological Department , which is scheduled to release its
forecast for this season in the fourth week of April.  “A good monsoon will boost overall farm growth and the
economy,”  Kishore Narne , head of research at AnandRathi
Commodities Ltd., said by phone from Mumbai today. “This will
help India continue exports of rice, wheat, corn and sugar. It
will also help control rising prices of vegetables and stabilize
prices of all agricultural commodities.”  Inflation (INFINFY)  in India was 6.95 percent in February, holding
close to a 26-month low. It remains the fastest in the so-called
BRIC group of biggest emerging economies that also includes
Brazil, Russia and  China . The  Reserve Bank  of India raised rates
by a record 3.75 percentage points from March 2010 to October
last year, seeking to contain price increases.  Slowing Growth  India’s  economy  grew at the slowest pace in more than two
years in the quarter ended December as domestic demand weakened
and the global recovery faltered. Gross domestic product rose
6.1 percent in the three-month period, the  Central Statistical
Office  said Feb. 29.  Rainfall  from last year’s monsoon was 101 percent of the
50-year average, boosting water levels in dams. That helped
India produce a record 250.4 million tons of  food grains  in the
year ending June 30, prompting the government to scrap a ban on
exports of non-basmati rice and wheat.  The country will remain a net  exporter  of sugar for a third
year in 2012-2013 as supplies exceed domestic demand, the Indian
Sugar Mills Association said yesterday. The country expects to
have enough food grains for exports till 2014, Food Minister
K.V. Thomas said on March 21.  Crop Sowing  Sowing of monsoon crops starts in June and harvesting
starts in September. The monsoon typically begins in the
southern state of Kerala by the first week of June, before
blanketing the entire country by July 15.  “Although a weak El Nino may develop in the later part of
the season, the experimental dynamical model still shows monsoon
is more likely to be on the positive side of normal,” Goswami
said. The El Nino weather phenomenon, characterized by a warming
of the equatorial Pacific, brings increased rain to  South
America  and drought or reduced rainfall in Asia.  India’s 234 million farmers rely on monsoon rainfall to
water rice, sugar cane, soybean and lentil crops. The rains also
help replenish reservoirs, allowing farmers to use the water to
cultivate wheat and oilseeds planted between October and
December.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pratik Parija in  New Delhi  at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net ;
Prabhudatta Mishra in New Delhi at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  