-- Monti Scales Back Firing Rules to Secure Allies' Backing
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-04-04T18:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/monti-reaches-deal-with-main-parties-on-italy-labor-law-overhaul.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
modified his proposal to ease firing rules as he seeks consensus
on his planned overhaul of the country’s labor market.  The draft law, which Monti said he would send to Parliament
as early as today, will allow a court to order the reinstatement
of workers  fired  when a company faces economic difficulties if a
judge rules the dismissal “patently unfounded,” Labor Minister
Elsa Fornero said at a press conference with Monti in  Rome .
Italy’s current labor laws “were a great conquest for workers,
but the world has changed,” Fornero said.  Should the fired worker lose the case, he won’t be entitled
to financial compensation, the Labor Minister said. The original
plan passed by the Cabinet at a March 23 meeting offered only
compensation, and prompted  Italy ’s biggest union to call a
general strike and caused a key political ally to oppose the
bill.  “Our initial take on the reform is that it is a net
positive, as it would help to reduce the labor market
segmentation,” said Fabio Fois, a European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  London . “There are some elements of legal
uncertainty with the enhanced role of the courts to decide on
the reasons for dismissal.”  Economic Program  The labor-market overhaul, approved by the government after
two months of consultations with unions and employers, is the
fourth major reform passed by this government and the most
divisive as Monti seeks to revamp an economy that has  grown  less
than the European Union’s average for more than a decade. Monti
is implementing 20 billion-euro ($26.30 billion) austerity plan
to eliminate the deficit, a package to boost competition and a
set of measures to cut red tape.  All that and the  European Central Bank ’s unlimited loans to
the region’s lenders helped restore confidence in Italy’s
ability to cut a debt of almost 2 trillion euros and brought
down borrowing costs from euro-area highs in November.  Employers have pushed to ease firing rules, saying
companies are reluctant to hire in good economic times, because
they fear they won’t be able to shed workers when times grow
hard. Fornero failed to reach an agreement with unions on
changing the law after two months of talks, as a jobless rate at
a 10-year high of 9.3 percent made it difficult to convince
labor groups of the need to make it easier to fire workers.  Resolving Differences  Monti announced the changes to the law after meeting last
night with the leaders of the three main political parties that
have backed his unelected government -- the  Democratic Party ,
the People of Liberty party and the Third Way alliance -- to
resolve differences over the plan. Democratic Party leader Pier Luigi Bersani had called on Monti to change the original plan to
give judges the power to order reinstatement in all types of
firings.  Monti said today that the judges wouldn’t be able to
interfere with the firing decisions of companies and that
employers would still have an easier time in shedding workers.  Flexibility “as far as ending employment agreements has
increased in a relevant way,” Monti said.  There will “also be
guarantees to make sure that the labor judges don’t enter too
much in the decisions of employers.”  The labor law bill will also extend the country’s limited
system of  unemployment benefits  to cover more people. The
current law offers the most support to workers that already
enjoy the most job protection. The government’s plan also limits
the use of part-time contracts to encourage more permanent
employment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  