-- Paulson Gold Fund Said to Fall 13% as Mining Stocks Slump
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-04-04T23:34:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/paulson-gold-fund-said-to-fall-13-in-march-on-mining-stocks.html
Paulson & Co.’s Gold Fund lost 13
percent in March, according to a person with knowledge of the
returns, as investors sold off bullion and mining stocks such as
AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. slumped.  The losses leave the fund, which can buy derivatives and
other gold-related investments, down 6.5 percent since the start
of this year, said the person, who asked not to be identified
because the fund is private. Paulson & Co., which manages $24
billion, is the largest individual holder of AngloGold Ashanti
shares, and the second-biggest owner of NovaGold Resources Inc.,
both of which lost about 13 percent last month.  Paulson, 56, is seeking to reverse record losses last year
from an ill-timed bet on an economic recovery, which caused him
to scale back risk before stocks markets started to rally late
in 2011. Paulson told investors in February that his Gold Fund
will outperform his other strategies over five years.  Bullion fell 2.3 percent last month after a strike by
jewelers in  India , the biggest buyer, curbed demand and on
lowered expectations that the Fed would offer fresh stimulus
amid signs the  U.S. economy  is gaining momentum.  Advantage Funds  AngloGold is the largest position in Paulson’s Advantage
Plus Fund, which seeks to profit from corporate events such as
takeovers and bankruptcies and uses leverage to amplify returns,
according to a year-end letter the firm sent to investors. The
fund has a 25 percent allocation to gold-related investments,
Paulson said in the letter.  The fund fell 5.5 percent in March and 2.2 percent in the
first three months of 2012, erasing its yearly gain. Its gold
share class declined 5.4 percent last month and fell 0.7 percent
this year.  The Advantage Fund, which employs a similar strategy,
decreased 4 percent last month and 1 percent this year. Its gold
shares slumped 3.8 percent in March and gained 2.7 percent in
2012.  Armel Leslie , a spokesman for Paulson & Co., declined to
comment on the firm’s returns.  Recovery Fund  The Recovery Fund, which invests in assets Paulson believes
will benefit from a long-term economic rebound, such as
financial services, insurance, hotels and real estate companies,
climbed 2.8 percent last month and 9.5 percent this year. Its
gold shares gained 1.5 percent in March and 12 percent in 2012.  The firm’s Enhanced Fund, which invests in the shares of
merging companies, rose 0.9 percent in March, bringing gains
this year to 13 percent. Its gold share class gained less than
0.1 percent last month and 15 percent in the first three months
of the year, surmounting its so-called high-water mark, or
previous peak value, the person said. Managers whose funds fall
below that mark aren’t able to charge performance fees until
they recoup losses.  Paulson’s Credit Opportunities Fund returned 1 percent last
month and 5 percent in 2012, according to the person. Its gold
shares were flat in March and increased 8 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at 
 kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  