-- Pennsylvania High Court Takes Appeal on Marcellus Gas Rights
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-04-04T21:04:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/pennsylvania-high-court-takes-appeal-on-marcellus-gas-rights-2-.html
The Pennsylvania  Supreme Court 
agreed to hear an appeal of a dispute over Marcellus Shale
natural-gas rights that could affect thousands of drilling
leases in the state.  Pennsylvania landowners John and Mary Butler are
challenging an intermediate appeals court ruling that called for
scientific opinion on whether Marcellus Shale gas, which is
released by the process known as hydraulic fracturing, should be
considered a mineral under an 1882 decision of the Supreme
Court. In the trial court, the Butlers won their claim to the
natural gas rights.  Oral argument before the Supreme Court is probably months
away, Greg Krock, an attorney for the Butlers, said today in a
phone interview. The court denied a request from the
 Pennsylvania  Independent Oil & Gas Association to file papers in
support of the appeal.  “The case introduces a tremendous amount of uncertainty
into mineral rights in Pennsylvania,” said Michael Joy, an
attorney with  Reed Smith LLP (1157L)  in Pittsburgh who also holds a
doctorate in geology. “A whole host of companies had to re-
evaluate their lease portfolios, to try and understand what they
had,” he said.  The case arose from a dispute between the Butlers and the
heirs of an 1881 deed governing 244 acres in Susquehanna County.  The deed drawn by one Charles Powers transferred to his
heirs the oil and mineral rights for the land, which can be
separated from surface rights under Pennsylvania law.  Dunham Rule  Under an 1882 state Supreme Court decision known as the
Dunham Rule, surface owners like the Butlers are assumed to own
oil and gas under their land unless some other arrangement has
been made, said David Fine, a Harrisburg, Pennsylvania-based
attorney at  K&L Gates LLP (1142L) .  The Butlers filed suit in 2010 to claim the gas under their
land.  They argued that Powers failed to include the word gas in
separating subsurface rights on his former property, giving them
the right to tap it.  The Powers heirs, in an argument with wider implications
for gas leases in the state, claimed that since Marcellus gas is
trapped in rock and doesn’t flow freely to the surface, as gas
did from  oil wells  in the 1880s, it should be considered a
mineral and part of the rights explicitly transferred in the
deed, according to court records. They own the gas trapped in
the shale the same way they would own the gas trapped in a coal
seam, they said.  Half the Gas  Powers’s heirs are seeking rights to half the gas.  After the trial judge ruled for the Butlers, an appeals
court judge decided in September the state’s law isn’t clear
with respect to shale gas and ordered the trial court to solicit
expert opinions on the issue.  Laurence Kelly, an attorney for the Powers’ heirs, declined
to comment on the Supreme Court’s ruling.  The Butler case won’t affect mineral leasing in other
states because the rules on ownership are unique to each state,
Joy said in an interview.  The case has garnered national attention because
Pennsylvania has attracted some of the biggest oil-and-gas
operators in the country, including  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and
 Range Resources Corp. (RRC)  Chesapeake has leased 1.78 million acres
in the Marcellus Shale, according to Bloomberg data, an area
larger than  Delaware .  Significant Cases  The  high court  since 2009 has taken at least four
significant cases that deal with Pennsylvania’s portion of the
Marcellus shale, Fine said. This case could mark the first time
the court will deal with the Dunham Rule in more than five
decades, he said.  “Given the way the court has phrased the issue in the
order granting review, it’s not even entirely clear that it will
squarely address the rule,” Fine said.  “If the Supreme Court were to revisit the Dunham rule and
modify it in any meaningful way, it would have the potential to
cause significant chaos in the oil and gas industry in
Pennsylvania,” Fine said. “People in Pennsylvania have
understood that this is the way you wrote deeds since the
1880s.”  The Marcellus Shale is a dense rock formation that
stretches from  New York  to  West Virginia  and may hold as much as
141 trillion cubic feet of gas, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. In the last decade, energy companies have learned how
to recover oil and gas from the Marcellus and similar fields
using hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a process that breaks
up the rock using water, sand and chemicals.  Drilling in Pennsylvania’s portion of the Marcellus Shale
formation could mean $20 billion to the state’s economy by 2020,
from $13 billion last year, according to an industry-funded
study published by researchers from  Pennsylvania State
University  in  State College .  The case is Butler v. Charles Powers Estate, 760 MAL 2011,
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania Middle District (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  