-- Philippine Peso Retreats After Fed Signals No Further Easing
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-04-04T08:19:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/philippine-peso-retreats-after-fed-signals-no-further-easing.html
The Philippine peso retreated from a
three-week high after the  Federal Reserve  signaled it will hold
off from further monetary easing, curbing investor appetite for
emerging-market assets.  The currency had its biggest drop in two weeks ahead of the
Lenten holidays, when markets will shut on April 5 and 6. The
minutes of the Fed’s March 13 meeting showed decreased urgency
to add stimulus unless the U.S. economy falters or inflation
slips below 2 percent.  “The Fed sparked a little bit of risk aversion,” said
 Enrico Tanuwidjaja , a Singapore-based senior currency analyst at
Malayan Banking Bhd. “If there was more easing, the amount of
liquidity would have been supportive of a further rally in
emerging markets.”  The peso fell 0.3 percent to 42.798 per dollar at the close
in  Manila , paring this week’s gain to 0.3 percent, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc. It reached 42.550 yesterday, the strongest
level since March 13. The peso’s one-month implied volatility,
which measures exchange-rate swings used to price options,
declined 20 basis points to 5.70 percent.  The yield on the Philippines’ 5 percent bonds due August
2018 dropped five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
4.85 percent, according to prices from Tradition Financial
Services.  Inflation slowed to 2.6 percent in March from a year
earlier, the least since September 2009, the  National Statistics
Office  in Manila said today. That compares with 2.7 percent in
February. The median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News
survey was for a 2.8 percent gain.  “The risk is still on the upside for inflation,” said
Tanuwidjaja. Consumer-price gains may quicken in the coming
months after the government approved an increase in fares for
public transport, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 