-- Pickens Reviving Plans for Texas Wind Power at Smaller Scale
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-04-04T21:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/pickens-reviving-plans-for-texas-wind-projects-at-smaller-scale.html
Billionaire T. Boone Pickens is
building a 377-megawatt wind farm in  Texas , three years after
shelving plans for a project about ten times as big that
would’ve been the world’s largest.  Mesa Power Group LLC, the Dallas-based renewable energy
company Pickens created in 2007, is co-developing the Stephens
Bor-Lynn wind farm with Wind Tex Energy LP, according to a
statement today.  Pickens will connect the farm to a transmission line that’s
due to be completed in early 2013. Mesa announced plans for the
4-gigawatt Pampa wind farm in the Texas panhandle in 2007. Two
years later, it put the project on hold citing a lack of
adequate  power lines . The company will provide 233 1.6-megawatt
 General Electric Co. (GE)  wind turbines purchased through a contract
linked to the earlier plan.  “This is all part of the same deal,” Lindsay Theile, a GE
spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  Mesa in 2008 agreed to buy 667 1.5-megawatt GE turbines for
the Pampa project and halved the order in 2010. Mesa said later
that year it would use some of the 333 turbines at projects in
Minnesota and  Canada .  The contract was revised again for the Stephens Bor-Lynn
project, Theile said. She wouldn’t give a price for the
turbines.  Equity Stake  Mesa purchased a majority equity interest in Stephens Bor-
Lynn, Jay Rosser, a spokesman for Pickens’s BP Capital LLC, said
by e-mail.  The project will deliver power on a transmission line being
built by Wind Energy Transmission Texas LLC, a joint venture
between  Brookfield Asset Management Inc. (BAM/A)  and Isolux Corsan
Servicios SA, according to the statement.  Wind Energy Texas is one of several developers planning to
add $5 billion of transmission lines in the state by 2015 to
carry wind power, according to its  website .  Mesa and Wind Tex expect to receive financing in the second
half of the year for Stephens Bor-Lynn, about 50 miles (80
kilometers) south of Lubbock, Texas. It will begin producing
power next year.  Mesa is seeking a buyer for the project’s power. Stephens
Bor-Lynn is the company’s only Texas project, Rosser said.  Wind Tex has developed four wind farms in Texas that
generate 6 percent of the state’s wind energy.  Texas has more than 10,330 megawatts of  installed wind 
capacity, according to the  American Wind Energy Association , the
most in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  