-- Poland Signals Higher Rate to Assuage Investors as CPI Rise
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 2012-04-05T09:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/poland-signals-rate-increase-to-assuage-investors-as-prices-rise.html
Poland’s central bank warned that it
will increase  interest rates  if slowing economic growth fails to
curb inflation, which has exceeded the target range for 14
months.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw yesterday kept the
benchmark seven-day  interest rate  at 4.5 percent, the highest
since January 2009. Rate setters are “seriously considering”
raising borrowing costs, Governor  Marek Belka  said after the
decision was announced.  Investors are watching the central bank for signs of the
timing of a rate increase as  inflation  has remained above 3.5
percent, the upper end of the target range, since January 2011.
Monetary policy makers are “definitely approaching that
stage,” said Belka, who last week said he’s prepared to wait to
avoid having to reverse the move should the economy slow.  “This is a clear twist of the screw in terms of verbal
restrictiveness,” Jaroslaw Janecki, chief economist at  Societe
Generale (GLE)  in Warsaw said by phone yesterday. “Policy makers are
terrified that the inflation rate is so sticky and Belka clearly
wants to prepare the market for a rate increase.”  The zloty advanced 0.1 percent to 4.1476 per euro as of
10:11 a.m. in Warsaw. It has gained 7.7 percent against the euro
this year, the world’s third-best performance behind the
Colombian peso.  No Cut  Investors in interest-rate derivatives stopped wagering
that the next move from the central bank will be a cut. Six-
month forward-rate agreements rose four basis points above the
three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate after trading 8 basis
points below on April 3, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Taking into account an increase in FRA rates during the
MPC conference, we believe this development was also a surprise
to market participants,”  Piotr Kalisz , a Warsaw-based economist
at Citigroup’s Bank Handlowy unit, said in an e-mailed note
today.  He revised his forecast to expect interest rates to remain
on hold in 2012, while previously he looked for total cuts of a
quarter-point to a half-point this year, “a scenario of policy
tightening cannot be ruled out though in our view, economic
developments do not justify such a response.”  ‘Clear Signal’  “We wanted to send a clear signal,” Belka said yesterday.
“I have the impression that central bank watchers aren’t giving
credence to our concern about persistent inflation, which is
much higher than the Monetary Policy Council’s tolerance
range.”  Polish bonds tumbled, sending yields on two-year notes to
the highest in almost three months. The yield on notes maturing
in April 2014 rose by a total of 10 basis points since yesterday
to 4.74 percent as of 10:16 a.m. in Warsaw, the highest for two-
year debt since Jan. 19, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Hungarian central bankers left the two-week  deposit rate  at
7 percent for a third month on March 28, while Czech policy
makers kept their benchmark rate unchanged at a record-low 0.75
percent for a 15th meeting on March 29.  Growth Outlook  Poland ’s  gross domestic product  rose 4.3 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2011 from the year-earlier period, leading to
expectations the full-year growth estimate of 4.3 percent may be
revised higher, Belka said last month. Yesterday, he reiterated
the economy may slow less than previously estimated this year,
while the first-quarter economic expansion was “probably also
around 4 percent.”  “A possible rate increase would be a demonstration of our
faith in the strength of the Polish economy,” Belka said.  The economy will expand 2.5 percent this year, the fastest
pace in the EU, the European Commission said in February. Poland
was also the only member of the 27-nation block to avoid
recession in 2009.  Industrial-output (POISCYOY)  growth slowed to 4.6 percent in February,
the slowest in seven months, from 9 percent the previous month,
while a report showed the March Purchasing Managers’ Index at
50.1 compared with a reading of 52.2 in January PMI, proving
weakening economic activity in the coming months.  ‘Will Wait’  “The monetary policy decisions aren’t about monthly
data,” Janecki said. “The Council will wait to see the GDP
figures for the first quarter, especially consumption, in order
to assess the inflation risks.”  Rates may rise a quarter-point each in June and July, said
Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura International Plc.
in  London , in an e-mailed note. Economic data may not “show
enough inflation stickiness” for a rate increase next month, he
wrote.  Still, a slowing economy and moderating price increases may
prevent the central bank from raising borrowing costs, Pasquale Diana, a  Morgan Stanley (MS)  economist in London, said in an e-mailed
note. The economy “will struggle” to grow 4 percent in the
first quarter and inflation is set to slow, he wrote.  “While the next few meetings clearly warrant a lot of
attention in terms of rate hike risks, we also believe the
window for tightening is closing in a few months,” Diana wrote.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net  