-- Polish Central Bank Keeps Benchmark Rate Unchanged at 4.5%
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-04-04T14:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/polish-central-bank-keeps-its-main-rate-unchanged-at-4-5-.html
Polish policy makers left interest
rates unchanged today for a 10th month and warned that borrowing
costs may rise if inflation remains elevated and economic growth
avoids a steeper slowdown.  The Narodowy Bank Polski in Warsaw kept the benchmark
seven-day  interest rate  at 4.5 percent, the highest since
January 2009, matching the forecasts of all 34 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Investors are watching monetary policy makers for the
timing of a rate increase as inflation has remained above 3.5
percent, the upper end of their target range, since January
2011. There is a chance of borrowing costs rising in the
“nearest future,” central bank Governor Marek Belka said.  “We are giving some serious thoughts to the possibility to
increase the rate,” Belka told a news conference in Warsaw
today, adding that “nothing is set in stone.” Policy makers
“will consider tightening monetary policy in the nearest
future, unless signs of considerable economic weakening in
 Poland  appear and the outlook for inflation returning to the
target does not improve.”  The zloty has gained 7.6 percent against the euro this
year, the world’s second-best performance. The currency traded
at 4.1445 per euro at 4:23 p.m. in Warsaw from 4.1291 yesterday.
The  yield  on the government’s five-year bond rose to 4.94
percent from 4.92 percent.  Output Slows  Industrial output  growth slowed to 4.6 percent in February,
a seven-month low, from 9 percent the previous month, while
 inflation  accelerated to 4.3 percent from 4.1 percent.  The government forecasts gross domestic product in the
largest eastern European Union member will expand 2.5 percent
this year compared with an estimated 4.3 percent last year.  “The negative production surprise in February is a turning
point,”  Rafal Benecki , a senior economist at ING Bank in
Warsaw, said in a note after the decision. “We expect a
withdrawal from hawkish comments in the next months. This should
be a slow process as inflation remains sticky.”  Hungarian central bankers left the two-week deposit rate at
7 percent for a third month on March 28, while Czech policy
makers kept their benchmark rate unchanged at a record-low 0.75
percent for a 15th meeting on March 29.  ‘Rather Not Risk’  “I would rather not risk our reputation,” Belka said in a
March 26 interview. “Being too late is probably a lesser
mistake than increasing interest rates and then having to
reverse the move. This is the kind of calculation that I have in
mind when I look at interest rates.”  Expectations for an economic slowdown strengthened after a
report showed the March Purchasing Managers’ Index at 50.1
compared with a reading of 52.2 in January PMI, Piotr Bujak,
chief economist at Nordea Bank Poland, said April 2. A
contraction in sub-indexes for output, employment and new orders
points to a further weakening in manufacturing activity in the
coming months, he said.  Nine-month  forward-rate agreements , gauging expectations
for interest rate levels in December, traded 15 basis points
below the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate yesterday,
down from 16 basis points on March 27, when Belka indicated it
would be less risky to refrain from a rate increase, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  