-- Police Hid News Corp. Phone-Hacking Extent, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-04-04T16:17:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/police-hid-news-corp-phone-hacking-extent-2006-prosecutor-says.html
London police probing  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s
phone-hacking in 2006 didn’t show prosecutors evidence that more
than two people were involved, preventing a full examination of
the scandal, the lead lawyer in the case said.  David Perry , who represented Britain’s Crown Prosecution
Service, limited the case to former reporter  Clive Goodman  and
ex-private detective  Glenn Mulcaire  for lack of evidence that
other journalists had intercepted celebrities’ voice mail, he
told the media ethics inquiry in London today.  “We were informed that there was no such evidence,” Perry
said to the judge-led inquiry via video-link from  Northern
Ireland . “I can’t recall which officer gave that reply.”
Others have testified to the inquiry that police had information
at the time of more phone-hacking victims and potential
wrongdoers.  While Goodman and Mulcaire pleaded guilty and were jailed
in 2007, the full extent of the hacking scheme was suppressed
until 2010, when victims’ civil lawsuits revealed the criminal
case had only touched the surface of the scandal.  James Murdoch ,
the deputy chief operating officer of New York-based News Corp.,
stepped down yesterday as chairman of pay-TV company  British Sky
Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  in the latest fallout from the scandal.  The 2006 criminal case involving News Corp.’s now-defunct
News of the World tabloid revealed just a few of the 180
potential victims known to police at the time and the public
wasn’t made aware until years later others had been targeted.
Perry said today he didn’t know some officers had worried
evidence of a wider conspiracy was being ignored.  Manageable, Simple  “The most important consideration is to keep the case
manageable and for the presentation of the case to be simple for
all concerned,” Perry said of the limits to his criminal case.
“By taking a sample of victims and including them within an
indictment, you get a picture of the criminality.”  Since the scandal widened, more than 30 people affiliated
with News Corp.’s U.K. tabloids have been arrested, including
former editors of the News of the World and reporters at its Sun
daily newspaper. Victims have told the inquiry the 2006 case was
hampered by a too-close relationship between police and News
Corp.’s U.K. publisher, News International.  The inquiry, led by Judge Brian Leveson, also heard
testimony today from the CPS’s director of public prosecutions,
 Keir Starmer , who will be responsible for any charges filed
against those arrested in the new police probes.  Starmer said former Metropolitan Police assistant
commissioner  John Yates  who resigned in July over his links to
News International, resisted in 2009 when Starmer asked whether
evidence from the 2006 criminal case should be reviewed again.  ‘Push-Back’  Starmer focused on an internal News of the World e-mail
unearthed in a civil case and labeled ’for Neville,’ suggesting
other reporters, such as ex-chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck,
may have been involved in phone hacking. The e-mail contained a
transcript of a voice mail. Thurlbeck was arrested last year.  “There was a degree of push-back against my suggestion
that there should be a further investigation of the ’for
Neville’ e-mail,” Starmer said. “Mr. Yates said it was not new
and it had been seen before and I understood at that stage he
didn’t see any reason to look at it.”  Ken Macdonald, the U.K.’s former director of public
prosecutions, also told the inquiry today he had no reason to
believe in 2005 and 2006 that the wrong decisions were being
made regarding phone-hacking prosecutions. Macdonald was later
hired by News Corp. to advise its board on handling the scandal.  The scandal prompted News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  to
close the News of the World in July and drop a 7.8 billion-pound
($12.5 billion) bid for full control of BSkyB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  