-- Porsche $250,000 GT3 Racecar Is Too Hot for the Street
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-04T23:20:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/porsche-250-000-gt3-racecar-is-too-hot-for-the-street-review.html
Sitting over there in the racetrack
pits is a $140,000 Porsche 911 GT3 RS, one of the most fearsome
street-legal  sports cars  in the world. Yet it sits unused and
unloved, like a child’s castaway toy.  That’s because I’m strapped into this: a Porsche GT3 Cup
car, which can’t be legally driven on streets. Rather it’s found
competing in some of the world’s most hardcore racing events. It
won this year’s Rolex 24 Hours at Daytona in the GT class.  This is the big time, the step up from the minors, the leap
from a common band instrument to the Stradivarius, the jump from
the community theater to Broadway.  It’s $250,000 of pure racecar.  Until now, I didn’t appreciate the difference between a
street-legal Porsche and a GT racecar. There’s a yawning gulf
between a navigation system and heated seats and a race-grade
roll-cage and mandatory HANS device. (The HANS is a neck cradle
between your fire-retardant suit and full-face helmet, designed
to prevent your head snapping violently forward in the case of a
catastrophic deceleration.)  The GT3 Cup car is ferocious and fragile; finely calibrated
and violently concussive. It does exactly what it’s told at the
hands of a professional.  There’s the rub. Even a Stradivarius sounds lousy in the
hands of amateur. Can I make a perfect noise from this terrible
instrument?  Ignition Button  This is my final 30-minute session of laps around the 2.38-
mile road course at  Barber Motorsports  in Birmingham,  Alabama .
The pit crew -- oh yes, there’s a pit crew -- gives me a thumb’s
up. I push an ignition button and the naturally-breathing six-
cylinder engine catches, the sound of a dozing Tyrannosaurus Rex
with a head cold.  I engage the clutch, push the bulky sequential transmission
lever forward and roll off. I’m not racing anyone but myself and
the stopwatch -- a wrestling match between masculine pride and
self-preservation.  Over the years I’ve attended every class level offered by
the  Porsche Sport Driving School  here in Alabama. It starts with
a basic sessions of one or two days, and progresses to the
three-day “Masters Plus” course.  Only then are you ready for the GT3 Cup Experience. It
costs $10,000 and is the equivalent of a doctoral dissertation,
except a failing grade could mean pricy parts strewn across the
tarmac. Students, limited to six for the two-day course, must
have completed all previous advanced training.  Number Crunching  The price seems steep until you start crunching numbers. A
base GT3 Cup car costs $225,000, not including school additions 
like ABS brakes and a right-hand seat for the instructor. The 
car I’m driving is a 450-horsepower purebred worth $250,000 
and is capable of 190 miles per hour.  After each lapping session the pit crew attacks the car,
jacking it up and fiddling with its suspension and engine.
According to school operations manager, Jeff Purner, operating
costs run about $3,000 an hour.  That doesn’t include “consumables” like gas, brake pads
or tires --  Michelin (ML)  racing slicks -- which cost $2,100 a set.
(After a day of hard laps, the rubber looks like it was burned
by a torch.)  “We’re actually underpriced,” says Purner. “We have one
returning client who owns his own GT3 Cup car, but finds it’s
cheaper to train using ours.”  Racing Legend  No wonder, as the school includes two full days of one-on-
one instruction from professional racers, including endurance-
racing legend  Hurley Haywood .  I’ve known many of these guys for years. People like
instructor  John Lewis , an Alabama native who tends to camouflage
his racing acumen with a heavy southern accent and good-old-boy
colloquialisms.  Barber is a tough track and Lewis and I spent the morning
driving the regular, non-racecar GT3 while focusing on two
difficult sections. After an hour talking about weight
transfers, yaw rates and camber changes, my brain was pickling.  But shortly after I had an adrenaline-soaked session with
the Cup car, achieving a personal best lap time of 1:41.
Respectable, if not exceptional. A very good lap driven by an
instructor is closer to 1:32.  Rolling onto the track now, I’m mostly calm and, for the
first time, completely alone. Another student has already spun
the Cup car twice.  Nasty Corners  So begin 30 of the most intense minutes of my life. Focus
is everything. I’m topping out of the short straightaways at 120
mph, with every straight ending in a nasty downhill corner. I’ve
got to slow down, downshift and position the car exactly right.
The car has no electronic stability or traction controls to fix
mistakes. Imagine trying to park in your garage at 50 mph.  I concentrate on my breathing -- too often I find myself
holding my breath.  Rhythm, repetition. My favorite section, on the back half
of the track, goes like this:  Zing up a short hill (I can’t see the top); transition the
car from right to left. The car crests and I’m immediately at
the extreme edge of the road (danger!). Force my eyes away, to
the next downhill corner.  Down now (rollercoaster!), going full on the gas.
“Madness,” cries my brain, but the action cements the car to
the road. It slides onto a curb as I turn, the suspension
compressing, G forces smooshing me into the seat. The traction
is surreal. No ordinary car could ever, ever, manage this.  I finally return to the pits, take off my helmet, pull out
my earplugs and get the news. I clock my fastest lap in 1:36.3.
I am inordinately pleased.  And so begins weeks of incessant day dreaming about the
very unlikely possibility that one day I’ll get another shot at
a 911 GT3 Cup car.  Porsche Sport Driving School, 911 GT3 Cup Experience,
$10,000; +1-888-204-7474, https://www.porschedriving.com.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on
Twitter @JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 