-- Portugal Says Some Town Halls May Need to Restructure Their Debt
-- B y   H e n r i q u e   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-04-04T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/portugal-says-some-town-halls-may-need-to-restructure-their-debt.html
Some of  Portugal ’s municipalities
may need to restructure their debt once the government
determines the exact amount they owe, a spokesman for
Parliamentary Affairs Minister Miguel Relvas said.  “We are waiting to find out the overall debt figure,”
Antonio Vale said in a phone interview from Lisbon today. “It
may be possible that some town halls restructure their debt.”  Portugal is cutting back on money transfers to town halls,
while encouraging local administrations to merge as part of a
plan to save money and comply with the terms of a 78 billion-
euro ($102 billion) bailout from the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund .  “Most town halls are healthy,” said Vale. He said the
government will first determine the total debt held by the
country’s 308 town halls before it comes up with a plan to deal
with each municipality on a case-by-case basis.  The European Commission said yesterday in a  report  on the
third review of Portugal’s financial aid program that “a
procedure for an orderly debt restructuring for regional and
local governments will be designed and implemented.”  The southern European country’s town halls face similar
issues to those of  Spain , whose regions and municipalities have
been shut out of  capital markets . Spain’s government is offering
them loans to help pay suppliers.  In Portugal, town halls hold as much as 9 billion euros of
debt and may face default unless the government provides aid
soon, Fernando Ruas, president of the association of
municipalities, said in an interview on March 21.  “At a company we call it insolvency,” Ruas said. “It
could happen that some town halls could have to restructure
their debt if the government doesn’t intervene.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henrique Almeida in Lisbon at 
 halmeida5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  