-- Pound Gains to 2-Month High Versus Euro on Services, Homes Boost
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-04-04T15:27:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/pound-rises-to-two-week-high-versus-euro-as-services-accelerate.html
The pound appreciated to the
strongest in more than two months against the euro as reports
unexpectedly showed U.K.  services growth  accelerated last month
and  house prices  increased.  Sterling strengthened against most of its 16 major
counterparts before the Bank of  England  meets tomorrow to review
monetary policy. Gilts declined as the improved data damped bets
policy makers will increase debt purchases to boost the economy.
The pound weakened against the dollar as stocks slid around the
world, boosting demand for the relative safety of the greenback.  “The pound is performing well,” said  Neil Jones , head of
European hedge-fund sales at Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. in
London. “Services continue to outperform, house-price data blew
the doors off.”  The U.K. currency gained 0.5 percent to 82.73 pence per
euro at 4:14 p.m.  London  time, after appreciating to 82.62, the
strongest since Jan. 16. Against the U.S. currency it fell 0.3
percent to $1.5874.  A gauge of U.K.  services activity  based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  increased to 55.3 from 53.8 in February,
Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and
Supply said. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News forecast
53.4, above the level of 50 that shows growth.  Draghi, BOE  A separate report showed house prices climbed 2.2 percent
in March from the previous month, Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s
Halifax division said. The median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a decline of 0.2 percent.  The pound extended its advance against the euro after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said the economic
outlook remained subject to “downside risks.” The Bank of
England will hold its target for bond purchases at 325 billion
pounds when policymakers announce their decision tomorrow,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Sterling has strengthened 1.5 percent in the past month,
the best performance among 10 developed-nation currencies
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro
gained 0.6 percent and the dollar appreciated 1.2 percent.  U.K. 10-year gilts slipped, pushing the  yield  five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, higher to 2.22 percent. The 4
percent bond due March 2022 fell 0.465, or 4.65 pounds per
1,000-pound face amount, to 115.77.  The recent data “all in all leans into confirmation that
the  Bank of England  is absolutely on hold,”  Marc Ostwald , a
fixed-income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London.
“You can see a modest drift higher in yields.”  The bonds of most euro-area nations underperformed
benchmark German bunds as data showed the region’s services and
manufacturing output contracted for a second month in March.  “Bunds are benefiting from the woes of the periphery today
and gilts are looking at domestic factors,” said Ostwald.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  