-- President Scapegoat Can’t Stop Picking on Big Oil
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-04-04T23:00:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/president-obama-can-t-stop-picking-on-big-oil.html
Barack Obama  isn’t the first U.S.
president to conjure up scapegoats to serve his political ends.
The Roosevelts, both Teddy and Franklin, were masters at the
game. TR decided the trusts were an enemy of the people and
busted the likes of Standard Oil and Northern Securities, which
controlled the railroads in the northwest. FDR demonized just
about anyone who had money.  Harry Truman   seized  the steel companies to avert a
nationwide strike, noting that “the steel industry has never
been so profitable as it is today.” When U.S. Steel and other
large  steel producers  raised prices,  John F. Kennedy  chided them
for pursuing “private power and profit” at the expense of 185
million Americans.  Sound familiar? Substitute Obama for Truman, and oil for
steel, and the tactics are quite similar.  Obama has elevated scapegoating to a new level. He has his
usual suspects -- the “millionaires and billionaires” who
serve as foils at campaign events -- as well as temporary
targets that come and go as the situation warrants.  For example, insurance companies played the role of villain
during the health-care debate in 2009. When it was time to craft
the Dodd-Frank financial-reform bill, banks were the bad guys.
As for  oil companies , they are a permanent pebble in Obama’s
shoe.  Punishing Profitability  In a Rose Garden  speech  last week, the president appealed
to Congress to “stand with the American people” and vote to
end subsidies to the oil and gas industry.  “Last year, the three biggest U.S. oil companies took home
more than $80 billion in  profits ,” Obama said before itemizing
Exxon Mobil’s hourly take-home pay ($4.7 million).  One hour later, Senate Republicans rejected the Democratic
measure.  Listen to Give ’em Hell Harry in 1952: “ Steel industry 
profits are now running at the rate of about $2.5 billion a
year. The steel companies are now making a profit of about
$19.50 on every ton of steel they produce. They don’t need
this,” Truman said of a $3-a-ton price increase.  I agree with Obama that oil companies don’t “need”
subsidies, some of which have been  in place since 1916 . But the
reason isn’t their profitability. It’s that preferential
treatment creates its own incentives, distortions and economic
inefficiencies. Besides, the government isn’t good at picking
winners and losers. (See General Motors’ Chevy Volt.)  What’s more, the “giveaways” Obama was referring to are
deductions and tax credits available to all domestic
manufacturers. Why pick on oil and gas companies, which already
pay an effective tax rate of more than 40 percent?  I think we know the answer. First, average  gas prices  are
approaching $4 a gallon, and the presidential election is seven
months away. Rightly or wrongly, consumers hold the chief
executive responsible.  Second,  oil companies  have committed the sin of
profitability. Does Obama understand that one reason profits are
so big is that the companies are big? Other better measures,
such as profit margins (net income divided by sales), show
energy producers underperforming other kinds of companies. For
example, the average  profit margin  for the six largest U.S.
integrated oil and gas companies was about 11 percent last year,
compared with almost 14 percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500
companies.  There are lots of other industries and special-interest
groups that don’t “need” subsidies and/or tax breaks. But they
have them because of mutual back-scratching by members of
Congress, who are much better at catering to their corporate
clients than to their constituents.  I would venture to say that if a business isn’t viable on
its own, it isn’t viable. “Need” is in the eye of the
beholder, which in most cases is the federal government, aided
and abetted by corporate lobbyists helping Congress see things
their way.  Obama the Omniscient  “Instead of taxpayer giveaways to an industry that’s never
been more profitable, we should be using that money to double-
down on investments in clean energy technologies that have never
been more promising -- investments in wind power and solar power
and biofuels; investments in fuel-efficient cars and trucks, and
energy-efficient homes and buildings,” Obama said. “That’s the
future.”  He knows this.  Singling out oil and gas companies for punishment may
solidify his populist credentials, but Obama knows that
repealing $4 billion of deductions is a drop in the bucket
compared with an annual $1 trillion of tax breaks and loopholes
in the  federal budget .  Besides, with Obama it’s never really about the cost
savings. If it comes down to a choice between good economics and
sound policy on the one hand and “fairness” -- fairness as
defined by Obama -- on the other, we know which one our
president will choose. At a Democratic  debate  during the 2008
presidential-election campaign, ABC News’s Charles Gibson asked
Obama why he wanted to raise the capital-gains tax when history
suggested a lower rate brought in more revenue to the Treasury.  “Well, Charlie, what I’ve said is that I would look at
raising the capital-gains tax for purposes of fairness,” Obama
replied.  Singling out specific industries as scapegoats for his
political purposes doesn’t strike me as particularly fair. I
guess it depends on what the meaning of fairness is.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  the real Mitt Romney ,
austerity  in Spain  and the Muslim Brotherhood’s  political rise ;
 Ezra Klein  on worrying about  the deficit ; Caroline Baum on
 scapegoating oil companies ;  Jonathan Weil  on  Groupon’s IPO ;
 Susan Antilla  on the  JOBS act ; and Rowan Jacobsen on  atrocities
in Myanmar .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  