-- Qualcomm, Intel Provide Source Code in Patent Fight, Apple Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-04-04T08:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/qualcomm-intel-provide-source-code-in-patent-fight-apple-says.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  have
provided U.S. lawyers with source code that will help prove
Apple Inc. isn’t infringing patents of  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
an Australian lawyer for the maker of iPhones said.  Attorneys in the U.S. have inspected the code and Intel and
Qualcomm have agreed to provide it to lawyers involved in a
patent dispute in  Australia ,  Andrew Fox , Apple’s lawyer, said at
a hearing in Sydney today.  “Further non-infringing arguments can be made from that”
disclosure of the source code, Fox said today.  Apple and Samsung, the largest maker of mobile phones, are
preparing for the start of a trial in which the companies accuse
each other of infringing patents. They have filed at least 30
suits on four continents against each other in the past year
after talks initiated by former Apple founder  Steve Jobs  to
resolve the disputes broke down.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , successfully delayed
the release of Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung’s Galaxy 10.1
tablet in Australia for four months last year, claiming it
infringed patents over touch screen technology and “slavishly”
copied its designs. Australia’s High Court allowed the Samsung
tablets to go on sale on Dec. 9.  Samsung claims some of Apple’s iPhones and iPads infringe
its patents over wireless transmissions.  Apple is Samsung’s  single biggest customer , responsible for
7.6 percent of the company’s revenue, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Additional Judges  The Australian trial, scheduled to begin July 9 and to run
through Oct. 12, may tax the Sydney federal court, Justice
Annabelle Bennett said at today’s hearing over the disclosure of
documents.  “It’ll make other cases in this court look like babies,”
Bennett said.  The trial may require more than one judge and Bennett said
she is considering finding a court-appointed expert to provide
testimony at the trial.  “I was never a fan of the idea,” she said. “But it
needs, logistically and practically, to happen.”  The case is:  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co.
NSD1243/2011. Federal Court of Australia (Sydney).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  