-- Trading Emissions Value Falls in Worst Case, Broker Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-04-04T14:11:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/trading-emissions-value-falls-in-worst-case-broker-says.html
Trading Emissions Plc (TRE) , a developer
of carbon credits from projects in  developing countries , may be
worth 79 percent less than its current share price suggests by
the end of the year under a worst-case scenario published by
Mirabaud Securities LLP.  That would value the London-based company at 5 pence a
share, Gus Hochschild, a Mirabaud analyst in London, said today
in an e-mailed research note. The best-case outlook is 33 pence
and the base-case is 23 pence a share, he said. The shares fell
9.4 percent to 24 pence as of 2:30 p.m. That’s the lowest since
Jan. 26, and values the company at 60 million pounds ($95
million).  Trading Emissions has plunged 78 percent in the past year
as carbon allowances and credits dropped because of an
oversupply in  Europe . The company said March 30 its portfolio of
carbon credits had a negative value of 18 million pounds, citing
an unspecified accounting firm. That’s because it agreed to buy
carbon credits at more than current market levels.  Trading Emissions said it had cash of 61.5 million pounds,
including 21.2 million pounds that’s restricted for payment to a
World Bank fund for emission credits, according to its accounts
for the six months through Dec. 31 that cite the accountant.  There’s also 21.6 million pounds of cash held in other
companies owned or part-owned by Trading Emissions, which may
not be easily accessible to the parent, Hochschild said.  That would leave the company with 18.7 million pounds in
cash. In the six months through December, Trading Emissions paid
investment advisory fees and other expenses of 5.6 million
pounds, which on an annualized basis would amount to 11.2
million pounds.  EEA Advising  EEA Fund Management Ltd.,  investment adviser  to the
company, needs to quickly raise more cash, Hochschild said today
by phone.  “What they really need to do is get their act together and
sell some of their assets,” he said. EEA, whose chairman is
Simon Shaw, didn’t immediately return two calls seeking comment.  The company’s accountant used a price of 4.28 euros to
calculate its negative valuation for its carbon assets at the
end of last year. Benchmark credits were unchanged today at 3.51
euros. The average purchase price for credits is 6.29 euros a
ton “for delivered and future risk-adjusted” credits,
according to the company’s accounts.  Its liabilities attached to contracts to buy carbon credits
continue to rise as offset prices drop further, Hochschild said.  He cut his rating for the company to underweight from
neutral. That means he expects the stock’s return to be less
than the average of its peers. The company said its losses on
the contracts could amount to as much as 70.5 million pounds
should United Nations greenhouse-gas credit prices drop to zero.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  