-- Rajoy Says Spain in ‘Extreme Difficulty’ as Bond Demand Drops
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-04-04T13:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/rajoy-says-spain-in-extreme-difficulty-as-bond-demand-drops.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said
Spain’s situation is one of “extreme difficulty” and signaled
that his budget cuts are less painful than a bailout would be,
as demand for the nation’s debt slumped at an auction.  “Spain is facing an economic situation of extreme
difficulty, I repeat, of extreme difficulty, and anyone who
doesn’t understand that is fooling themselves,” Rajoy told a
meeting of his  People’s Party  today in the southern coastal city
of Malaga.  Rajoy raised the threat of an international bailout for the
second time this week as he sought to defend the deepest
 austerity  moves in at least three decades. While “no one
likes” the budget presented last week, he said “the
alternative is infinitely worse.”  Spain  sold 2.59 billion euros ($3.4 billion) of bonds
today, just above the minimum amount it planned for the auction
and below the 3.5 billion-euro maximum target. The average yield
on the bonds due in October 2016, which act as the five-year
benchmark, rose to 4.319 percent from 3.376 percent at last
month’s sale. Secondary-market yields rose to 4.48 percent.  Spain’s 10-year borrowing costs are approaching the levels
seen in December, before the  European Central Bank  said it would
make unlimited three-year loans to banks. Some of the 1 trillion
euros taken in the so-called LTROs has been recycled into high-
yielding government debt, which initially helped shave as much as
95 basis points off Spanish yields before they began to rise
again in March.  Bond Yields  Spanish borrowing costs have been going up since Rajoy
announced on March 2 that his government wouldn’t comply with
the deficit target the previous administration had set with the
European Union. Euro-region finance ministers then settled on a
target of 5.3 percent of gross domestic product for Spain. The
country hasn’t met the EU’s 3 percent deficit ceiling since
2007, and the government forecasts debt to reach 79.8 percent of
GDP this year, the highest in more than three decades.  “It’s back to reality now, the auction shows the LTRO
effect has been exhausted and now demand for Spanish paper is
becoming much more price sensitive,”  Peter Chatwell , a London-
based fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole Investment
Bank, said in a telephone interview.  Bailout Risk  Rajoy, in power since Dec. 21, first raised the specter of
a bailout in a speech to senior party members on April 2. The
risk of losing access to markets isn’t “theoretical” and “has
already happened to some in the European Union,” he said.  Some local administrations in Spain have also been shut out
of  capital markets , preventing them from refinancing their debt,
Rajoy said. The government has created a 35 billion-euro credit
facility to help regions and town halls pay their bills and is
demanding spending cuts in exchange.  The government, which failed to win a majority in a
regional election in Andalusia on March 25 and faced a general
strike four days later, is trying to defend the 2012 budget it
sent to Parliament yesterday. The plan pledges more than 27
billion euros in deficit reduction to cut 3.2 percentage points
from a budget shortfall that reached 8.5 percent of GDP last
year. The plan includes an amnesty for tax-evaders and higher
corporate taxes, while slashing ministries’ spending by 17
percent.  The budget sets aside almost 29 billion euros for interest
payments in 2012, up from 22 billion euros last year. That’s
about the same amount it plans to spend on the unemployed, as
the  jobless  rate approaches 24 percent, the highest in the
European Union.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  