-- Rakoff Seeking Truth of Wall Street Wrongdoing Labeled Rogue
-- B y   K a m b i z   F o r o o h a r   a n d   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/rakoff-seeking-truth-of-wall-street-wrongdoing-labeled-rogue.html
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff
doesn’t shy away from high-profile fights.  In 2005, he challenged the  Department of Defense  for
holding suspected terrorists at Guantanamo Bay in Cuba without
identifying them. The Pentagon protested his order to release
their names, saying it would undermine their privacy rights and
in a few cases threaten national security. The judge rejected
most of the arguments from the military and forced it to reveal
the names, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports in its May issue.  “I’m not by nature reticent,” Rakoff, 68, says from
behind his glass-topped desk in his chambers in lower Manhattan.
“I wonder if Rush Limbaugh is ever going to come after me.”  Rakoff sits on the court for the Southern District of  New
York , which covers  Wall Street . He has presided over a number of
heavyweight financial lawsuits and currently is overseeing the
case of former McKinsey & Co. head  Rajat Gupta , who’s charged
with insider trading. The judge is also embroiled in a battle
with the Securities and Exchange Commission over what he
considers its tepid enforcement of the law.  On Nov. 28, Rakoff threw out the SEC’s $285 million
settlement of a lawsuit with  Citigroup (C)  Inc. for selling $1
billion of toxic mortgage securities in a collateralized debt
obligation that defaulted in 2007. As part of the agreement, New
York-based Citigroup neither admitted nor denied the agency’s
allegations, a clause that has been standard in such settlements
for at least four decades. Rakoff said he wanted the SEC to
reveal more facts about Citigroup’s wrongdoing so he could judge
whether the settlement is fair.  ‘Fearful Whispers’  “In much of the world, propaganda reigns, and truth is
confined to secretive fearful whispers,” Rakoff wrote in the
Citigroup case. “But the SEC, of all agencies, has a duty,
inherent in its statutory mission, to see that the truth
emerges.”  An appeals court may soon block Rakoff from getting the
truth. The SEC, stung from the judge’s criticism, appealed his
Citigroup ruling -- the first time the agency has challenged a
judge’s decision in an enforcement action since 1984. In a blunt
rebuke to Rakoff on March 15, the U.S. Court of Appeals in
Manhattan said judges like Rakoff have only minimal authority to
second-guess the SEC, which is better equipped to protect
investors.  The appeals court won’t make a final ruling until at least
September, when a court-appointed lawyer, Lankler Siffert & Wohl
Partner John Wing, presents Rakoff’s argument.  Death Penalty  “The court says Rakoff’s a rogue judge,” says  Adam Pritchard , a professor of law at the University of Michigan.
“It is not the district court’s business to determine what’s in
the public interest.”  Rakoff’s bold decisions have been shot down before. In
2002, he ruled the death penalty unconstitutional in a case
before him -- a decision that was later reversed.  “He’s not a madman off on a power trip,” says David Schulz, the attorney who represented the Associated Press, which
was seeking the names in the Guantanamo case. “He is a very
principled guy who wants the government to do the right thing
and gets very impatient when it doesn’t.”  Rakoff’s rulings helped spur the $162 million settlement on
March 16 of a lawsuit threatening the owners of the New York
Mets. The trustee of Bernard Madoff’s investment firm claimed
co-owners Fred Wilpon and Saul Katz ignored warnings of fraud in
order to pocket hundreds of millions of dollars in profits.
Rakoff had earlier rejected much of the trustee’s $1 billion
claim while also putting the Mets at risk of paying as much as
$386 million.  Gupta Trial  Rakoff is also presiding over the criminal trial of Gupta
-- one of the highest-profile insider-trading cases -- which
begins in May. Gupta, also a former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
director, is accused of leaking inside tips to hedge-fund
founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who was sentenced to prison for 11
years. As part of an SEC lawsuit, Rakoff ordered Rajaratnam to
pay $92.8 million, the largest such penalty ever. Gupta denies
wrongdoing, his lawyer says. Rajaratnam is appealing.  Rakoff’s decision in the Citigroup case has added fuel to
criticism from investor advocates that the SEC is too cozy with
Wall Street. Since 2001, the commission has settled five fraud
cases with Citigroup, the world’s third-largest lender. None of
them involved an admission of wrongdoing, and all of them
included a promise not to commit fraud.  The penalties have been too small -- totaling $765 million
-- to serve as a deterrent, says Dennis Kelleher, chief
executive officer of Better Markets Inc., a nonprofit group that
promotes transparency in markets.  Admitting Fault  “The SEC penalties are not even a slap on the wrist,” he
says.  If Rakoff’s position prevails, it will change the way the
SEC enforces the law. The agency would have to make deals in
which defendants admit some fault, and this would lead to many
more trials. That’s because most businesses would be unwilling
to make such admissions, which could be used against them in
court by other litigants including shareholders. So companies
will opt for litigation, says Maria Ghazal, counsel for the
Washington-based  Business Roundtable , which represents U.S.
chief executives.  Robert Khuzami , director of the SEC’s Division of
Enforcement, said in December that forcing cases to trial will
hurt shareholders in the end.  ‘Wronged Investors’  “The result would be longer delays before victims get
compensated, the expenditure of SEC resources that could be
spent stopping the next fraud and -- quite possibly -- less
money in the pockets of wronged investors,” he said in a  speech 
to the Consumer Federation of America.  To avoid judges like Rakoff, the SEC might bypass district
courts and bring cases as administrative actions, where it would
have more leeway in making deals, says  Peter Henning , a
professor at Wayne State University Law School.  “The outcome of the appeals case could have a significant
impact on our practice,” says George Canellos, who heads the
SEC’s New York office.  Some legal scholars say Rakoff is close to overstepping his
authority by acting as if he’s a regulator.  “You get a picture of a judge who sees himself as an
active player in the political process,” says David Skeel, a
 University of Pennsylvania  law professor. “That he enjoys
having his picture in the New York Times is something that makes
other judges grimace.”  Shylock v. Antonio  For all of his combativeness, Rakoff possesses a
playfulness off the bench. A New York Yankees fan, he beams when
showing off a baseball signed by  Mariano Rivera , the best relief
pitcher in history, in his chambers. He and his wife, Ann, take
ballroom dancing lessons.  Rakoff also writes musical sketches for the  courthouse ’s
satirical revue each Christmas. His sense of humor comes out in
photographs on his wall of him clowning in a skit with  Sonia Sotomayor , who was once a fellow judge in the Southern District
and is now a U.S. Supreme Court justice.  Soon after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., Rakoff led a panel of judges, lawyers and a Shakespeare
scholar at a New York law school’s mock appeal of the case of
money lender Shylock, a character in The Merchant of Venice,
against Antonio. The panel ruled in favor of Shylock. Rakoff
delivered the opinion -- in iambic pentameter:  “The point is taken, and worthy of note: Venice, like
Citibank, must be kept afloat. If Venice, like Lehman, was fated
to sink, gondoliers, like brokers, would sure make a stink.”  Assails Faculty  Rakoff, a Philadelphia native, has been challenging the
power of institutions since college. As student council
president at  Swarthmore College  in suburban Philadelphia, he
assailed a faculty committee as biased and secretive for
ignoring a student recommendation that students sit on a faculty
curriculum committee. He also called for a campuswide protest to
overturn a rule requiring dormitory doors to be open 6 inches
when men and women were inside together.  “He was incredibly active, politically and sort of
idealistically,” says Daniel Menaker, who graduated a year
before Rakoff and later became executive editor-in-chief of
Random House Publishing.  After Rakoff graduated with an honors degree in English in
1964, he earned a Master of Philosophy degree from Balliol
College at the University of Oxford and completed law school at
 Harvard University  in 1969. Two years later, he became an
assistant U.S. attorney in Manhattan, eventually taking over as
chief of the securities fraud unit.  Insider Trading  He left government service in 1980 to head the criminal
defense and civil racketeering sections of Mudge Rose Guthrie
Alexander & Ferdon in New York. In private practice, Rakoff
negotiated the same kind of settlements he rails against today.  One of his clients, Martin Siegel, a Kidder, Peabody & Co.
banker who pleaded guilty to insider trading in 1987 and
cooperated with prosecutors, settled an SEC case without
admitting wrongdoing.  “As a lawyer, your job is to get the best deal for your
client,” Rakoff says.  In 1995, then-President  Bill Clinton  named him to the
Southern District bench. As a judge, Rakoff says, he sees
himself as more than an umpire overseeing a legal contest. The
judge says he’s sometimes obligated to delve into the facts of
cases, particularly when the stakes for the public are high or
when the government seeks an injunction barring a party from
violating the law, as in the Citigroup case.  Saved WorldCom  “In those cases, I do feel that a judge should get very
much involved,” Rakoff says. “Not every judge agrees with
that.”  Rakoff’s fingerprints were all over the restructuring of
WorldCom Inc., which the SEC sued in 2002 in what was then the
biggest fraud case in U.S. history. The commission asked Rakoff
to appoint a monitor who would later oversee major changes at
the telecommunications giant. The judge tapped former SEC
Chairman  Richard Breeden  to help save the company and its 60,000
jobs.  Rakoff spoke almost daily with Breeden, held frequent
hearings to resolve disputes on pay and business strategy and
authorized him to craft sweeping governance reforms. Their
success allowed WorldCom, renamed MCI Inc., to sell itself in
2006 to  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  for $8.4 billion.  “I am, frankly, very proud of how that turned out,”
Rakoff says. “Hands-on is the way I do think of myself.”  Rakoff first admonished the SEC in 2009, tearing up its
initial $33 million deal with  Bank of America Corp . The bank had
failed to disclose bonus payments that soon-to-be-acquired
Merrill Lynch & Co. would pay out, the SEC said.  Goldman Mistake  The commission pushed the penalty up to $150 million in a
settlement Rakoff approved because it was accompanied by 35
pages of facts about the $5.8 billion in bonus payments and
other issues.  In two other major SEC accords, Goldman Sachs paid $550
million in 2010 after it allowed fund manager  John Paulson  to
select mortgage securities underpinning a CDO while he planned
to short them. Goldman Sachs admitted its actions were a
mistake.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  settled a CDO case last year for
$153.6 million without admitting wrongdoing. Rakoff wasn’t
involved in these two cases.  “The hard facts of what’s really going on in any given
situation too rarely emerge,” Rakoff says. “The two enemies of
truth are hypocrisy and secrecy.”  In the Citigroup case, which Rakoff won’t discuss, the SEC
said the bank misled investors with its CDO. Citigroup launched
the CDO in February 2007, 10 months before Vikram Pandit took
over as CEO.  ‘Best Short’  “One experienced CDO trader characterized the asset group
in internal communications as ‘a collection of dogsh!t’ and
‘possibly the best short EVER!’” the SEC said. Yet in marketing
materials, the bank described the assets as “attractive
investments.”  Citigroup took short positions against them, and in
November 2007, the security defaulted. Investors lost $700
million.  In the settlement, Rakoff called the deal pocket change for
a bank with $78.4 billion in  2011 revenue . He ordered the case
to trial in July. Citigroup, which is backing the appeal, is
preparing for a trial.  “We would present substantial factual and legal
defenses,” the bank said in a statement in November.  Shift Strategy  Rakoff’s rulings have swayed three fellow judges, who have
cited him or his cases in challenging deals by the SEC or the
Federal Trade Commission. A U.S. District Court judge in
Milwaukee in December questioned an SEC settlement with
headphone maker  Koss Corp. (KOSS)  for issuing inaccurate financial
statements. Only after officials provided details about the
accord did the judge approve it.  The SEC has begun to shift strategy amid the controversy of
the Citigroup case. The commission said in January that it would
require defendants to admit wrongdoing when they’ve done so in
parallel criminal proceedings, a move that an official said
wasn’t related to Rakoff’s decisions.  Even though some of the judge’s rulings have been reversed
in the past, the irrepressible Rakoff remains confident in his
opinions.  “I’m not shy about saying that I think in some of my cases
that were reversed on appeal, it’s just a matter of time before
the law comes my way,” he says.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kambiz Foroohar in New York at 
 kforoohar@bloomberg.net 
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net .
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  