-- Rambus Appeals California Antitrust Trial Loss to Hynix, Micron
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/rambus-files-appeal-of-antitrust-trial-loss-to-hynix-micron-1-.html
Rambus Inc. (RMBS)  appealed its loss of a
$3.95 billion jury trial over its allegations that Micron
Technology Inc. and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  conspired to
prevent its memory chips from becoming an industry standard.  The November verdict sent Rambus shares down as much as 78
percent, the biggest one-day loss since the company went public
in 1997. Micron rose as much as 25 percent, the most since its
initial public offering in 1984.  A state court jury in San Francisco by a 9-3 vote rejected
Rambus’s claims that Boise, Idaho-based Micron and Hynix, based
in Ichon, South Korea, are liable for colluding to manipulate
prices of dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, chips in
violation of California antitrust law. Rambus’s notice of appeal
is dated April 3.  “While we cannot predict how or when the appellate court
will decide our appeal, we believe that mistakes made during the
trial require reversal of the judgment,” Rambus spokeswoman
 Linda Ashmore  said in an e-mailed statement.  Jurors found by the same vote, after deliberating since
Sept. 22, that the two companies didn’t plot to interfere with
Rambus’s business relationship with  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and drive the
world’s largest chipmaker away from its collaboration on RDRAM,
or Rambus-designed memory, that began in the 1990s.  There are no “meritorious grounds” for Rambus’s filing
“but they certainly have the right to an appeal,” Hynix lawyer
Ken Nissley said in an e-mail.  Micron spokesman Dan Francisco didn’t immediately return a
call or e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Rambus Inc. v. Micron Technology Inc.,
04-0431105, California Superior Court (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  