-- Rare Earth Supplies in U.S. to Meet Defense Needs, Pentagon Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/rare-earth-supplies-in-u-s-to-meet-defense-needs-pentagon-says.html
Domestic rare earth supplies will
meet the U.S. defense industry’s needs by 2013 for the materials
that go into military motors and electronics, according to a
Pentagon report sent to Congress.  China , the world’s largest producer of rare earth
materials, accounting for at least 90 percent of the global
supply, has tried to restrict supplies. The 17 materials include
elements such as neodymium, samarium and dysprosium that also go
into commercial products, including hybrid batteries, mobile
phones and computer hard drives.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration has joined the
European Union and  Japan  to challenge China for placing export
limits on the materials, and the countries may ask the  World
Trade Organization  to resolve the issue if the negotiations
fail. China says it curbed output and exports to conserve
resources and protect the environment.  Congress last year required the Pentagon to examine the use
of rare earth materials in defense applications, determine if
non-U.S. supplies might be disrupted, and suggest ways to ensure
long-term availability, as well as secure an assured source of
supply by 2015.  The Pentagon’s unpublished seven-page report, titled “Rare
Earth Materials in Defense Applications,” was sent to Congress
last month. While it found the elements are “widely used” in
defense applications, such uses “represent a small fraction of
U.S. consumption.”  ‘Not Uniquely Important’  Rare earths “are important to the economy as a whole, but
they are not uniquely important” to the Defense Department,
 Cheryl Irwin , a Pentagon spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-
mail. The Pentagon “monitors rare earth element markets and
prices -- as it does for other important commodities,” she
said.  Of seven rare earth elements that are most used in defense
applications, supplies of six -- dysprosium, erbium, europium,
gadolinium, neodymium and praseodymium -- are sufficient to meet
demand in 2013, according to the Pentagon report. Yttrium, the
seventh element, which is mostly used in lasers, may face a
shortfall, the Pentagon said.  “The assessment determined that by 2013 U.S. production
could satisfy the level of consumption required to meet defense
procurement needs, with the exception of yttrium,” according to
the report. According to the  U.S. Geological Survey , China
produced about 98 percent of the world’s yttrium in 2011, though
the U.S. has about half of China’s reserves of the element.  Since 2010, demand for rare earth materials in defense and
commercial applications has “decreased significantly,” and
domestic and international suppliers have “responded to market
conditions” with new investments and corporate restructurings,
according to the report.  Contingency Plans  Forecasts show that non-Chinese consumption is projected to
decline and that prices have dropped by half from their peak in
July 2011, according to the report. “By 2015, the department
believes this will help to stabilize overall markets and improve
the availability,” the Pentagon said.  The Defense Department will continue to pursue substitutes,
reclaim waste through recycling and prepare contingency plans
including stockpiling, if necessary, according to the report.  Molycorp Inc. (MCP)  of  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado , owner of the
largest rare earth deposit outside China, said last month that
it agreed to purchase  Canada ’s  Neo Material Technologies Inc. (NEM) 
for C$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion) to add capacity. Neo operates
two plants in China.  Molycorp, which owns the Mountain Pass mine in  California ,
is restarting the mine and expanding its capacity. Molycorp is
also building a center at the site to process the minerals, and
in U.S. regulatory filings, the company has said its reserves
mostly include so-called light rare earths such as cerium,
lanthanum, neodymium, praseodymium and samarium.  When its two-phase project is complete, Molycorp will be a
“mine-to-magnets” producer that mines as well as processes the
materials and can produce as much as 40,000 metric tons of rare
earth oxides, the company has said  in its filings .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  