-- Treasury Officials Given a Day to Review U.S. Solyndra Loan
-- B y   A l i s o n   V e k s h i n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-04-04T19:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/treasury-officials-given-one-day-to-review-u-s-solyndra-loan.html
The U.S. Treasury Department was
given one day to review Solyndra LLC’s $535 million U.S. loan
guarantee after learning the Energy Department was ready to
announce the award, according to a Treasury audit.  While Treasury staff say they had enough time to review the
loan, internal e-mails cast doubt on whether staff suggestions
were addressed by the Energy Department, the Treasury’s
Inspector General’s Office said yesterday in the  report .  Officials in the White House’s Office of Management and
Budget told the Treasury Department that the announcement of a
conditional commitment to Solyndra was imminent. The department
had one day to review the terms of the guarantee to accommodate
an Energy Department press release.  “Treasury’s consultative role was not sufficiently
defined, the consultation that did occur was rushed and no
documentation was retained as to how Treasury’s serious concerns
with the loan were addressed,” the audit said.  Solyndra, heralded by President  Barack Obama  as proof that
“the promise of clean energy isn’t just an article of faith,”
filed for bankruptcy in September, days before the FBI raided
its headquarters in Fremont,  California . The company received a
$535 million loan guarantee under an Energy Department program
in September 2009 that was funded by the Treasury’s Federal
Financing Bank, a government corporation created by Congress in
1973.  ‘Exhaustive’ Review  The audit “makes clear that Treasury Department officials
believed they had enough time to evaluate the terms,”  Damien
LaVera , an Energy Department spokesman, said in an e-mail. “The
simple fact is that the review was exhaustive -- involving
technical, legal and financial experts from three federal
agencies for more than 1,000 days spanning two
administrations.”  Energy officials didn’t consult the Treasury on the terms
and conditions of the loan transaction before or during their
review, according to the audit.  The department sent a draft press release to the Treasury
on March 18, 2009, “announcing Solyndra’s conditional
commitment planned for issuance later that afternoon,” the
report said.  More Time Requested  The Treasury requested more time for review and later
agreed with the Energy Department’s request to expedite the
review by March 19, 2009, “so that the press release could be
issued on the morning of March 20, 2009,” according to the
report.  Treasury staff offered feedback in a March 19, 2009,
conference call, noting concerns that included the amount of
equity in the project, a preference for a partial guarantee and
the Energy Department’s claims on Solyndra’s intellectual
property in the event of default.  While “Treasury officials told us that all comments raised
were addressed by” the Energy Department, internal Treasury e-
mails from that time “leave questions” as to whether concerns
were fully addressed, the audit said.  “We pressed on certain issues such as why we aren’t
providing only a partial guarantee and covering a smaller
percentage of the eligible project costs, but the train really
has left the station on this deal,” an internal Treasury e-mail
said, according to the report.  ‘Heightened Media Attention’  The Treasury conducted the audit because of “heightened
media attention” and congressional inquiries into the loan, the
report said.  “Solyndra was a bad bet from the beginning that was rushed
out the door while every red flag was ignored,” Republican
Representatives Fred Upton of  Michigan , chairman of the House
Energy and Commerce Committee, and  Cliff Stearns  of  Florida , who
leads the committee’s investigations panel, said today in a
statement. “Treasury was clearly an afterthought in Solyndra’s
loan guarantee as well as its restructuring that put company
investors ahead of taxpayers.”  Energy Department officials have said renegotiating the
loan’s terms was a last-ditch effort to save Solyndra from
bankruptcy. Treasury officials told auditors that it was
“unclear if Solyndra’s restructure was considered a deviation”
of the terms, which would have required consultation. The report
says the departments should develop a “common understanding”
of what qualifies as a deviation of the loan terms.  Before the bankruptcy, Solyndra got about $528 million of
the $535 million in guaranteed loan funds, the report said.  The Energy Department is responsible for all credit losses
under its loan guarantee program, which “are ultimately borne
by the American taxpayers,” the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alison Vekshin in  San Francisco  at 
 avekshin@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  