-- Nike Wins Ruling Extending Bar on Reebok Tim Tebow Sales
-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n
-- 2012-04-04T20:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/reebok-says-it-had-right-to-sell-tim-tebow-n-y-jets-jerseys.html
Nike Inc. won a judge’s ruling
extending an order blocking  Adidas AG (ADS) ’s Reebok International
unit from selling  New York  Jets jerseys and T-shirts with  Tim Tebow ’s name and number.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in federal court in
Manhattan issued a preliminary injunction today barring the
sales. He previously had issued a temporary order until both
companies could present evidence supporting their cases.  Reebok’s licensing agreement with the National Football
League ended March 31, and Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike this
month became the official supplier of licensed NFL apparel.  “Nike has shown a probability of success on the merits,”
Castel said after hearing arguments and testimony from a Reebok
executive. Without the injunction, “Nike loses the opportunity
to associate itself” with Tebow.  Julian Friedman, a lawyer for Reebok, declined to comment
after the hearing.  Lawyers for Canton, Massachusetts-based Reebok said the
company had the right to sell the jerseys and T-shirts under a
sell-off provision of its licensing agreement with Players Inc.,
the marketing affiliate of the  National Football League  Players
Association.  Traded to Jets  Reebok presented testimony from Kenneth Gamble, a former
 Kansas City Chiefs  running back who is now its vice president of
marketing in the Sports Licensed Division. Gamble said he
received permission from Keith Gordon, president of the NFL
players licensing arm, to sell the apparel because Nike wouldn’t
be introducing its own jerseys until late April.  “He said we could only do five players,” Gamble
testified.  Lawyers for Nike disputed Gamble’s account.  Tebow, 24, helped lead the  Denver Broncos  to the NFL
playoffs after taking over as the team’s starting quarterback
last year. He was traded to the Jets on March 21.  Tebow, a Christian who prays on the field after his team
wins, was named the most popular professional athlete in the
U.S. in an ESPN poll this year. His Broncos jersey was the
second-highest selling of all NFL players last season, Nike said
in the complaint. Public reaction to Tebow’s sudden popularity
has been called “Tebow mania.”  The lawsuit will continue as Nike seeks to make the
injunction permanent.  The case is  Nike Inc. (NKE)  v. Reebok International Ltd., 12-cv-
2275, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Glovin in New York at 
 dglovin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 