-- Regions Financial Repays $3.5 Billion U.S. Taxpayer Bailout
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-04-04T22:06:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/regions-financial-corp-exits-treasury-capital-program.html
Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  repaid a
$3.5 billion taxpayer bailout, the largest debt still
outstanding to the U.S. Treasury Department’s Troubled Asset
Relief Program, after the bank sold assets to boost capital.  The lender, the 10th-largest in the U.S., bought back
preferred stock to exit the rescue fund, the Birmingham,
Alabama-based company said today in a statement. It has paid
$593 million in dividends to taxpayers since receiving the
bailout in November 2008, the company said.  “On an annual ongoing basis, the repurchase eliminates the
payment of $175 million in dividends on these securities,” said
Regions, which sold $900 million of stock and its Morgan Keegan
brokerage for about $1.2 billion to help repay the bailout.  TARP was created under President  George W. Bush  to prop up
the nation’s financial system during the 2008 crisis. Regions
was the biggest recipient of aid among the 350 banks left in the
$700 billion bailout program, followed by Salt Lake City-based
 Zions Bancorporation (ZION) , which announced plans to exit TARP last
month. The remaining lenders owe taxpayers about $12 billion.  “This repayment is another milestone in our efforts to
wind down TARP and provides an additional profit for taxpayers
on the program’s investment in banks,” Timothy Massad,
assistant secretary for financial stability at Treasury, said in
a separate statement. “Replacing temporary government support
with private capital is an important component of continuing to
restore financial stability.”  Political Issue  Government rescues of failing banks have become a political
issue as President  Barack Obama  gears up for his re-election
campaign. The Treasury has been unwinding the bailouts to
fulfill a 2009 vow by Obama to recover “every last dime” of
taxpayer money.  Treasury continues to hold a Regions  warrant  that expires
in 2018 to purchase 48.3 million shares of the lender’s common
stock for $10.88 a share. The Treasury, before selling TARP
warrants in a public auction, offers banks a chance to negotiate
a price to repurchase the securities.  Regions fell 2.7 percent to $6.47 in New York trading. The
shares have climbed 50 percent this year, the  second-best
performance  in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  after Bank of
America Corp.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins at 
 Chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  