-- Repsol Worst Debt Swaps on YPF Seize Threat: Corporate Finance
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-04-04T09:36:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/repsol-worst-debt-swaps-on-ypf-seize-threat-corporate-finance.html
Repsol YPF SA (REP)  credit-default swaps
are the worst-performing in the  energy industry  this year as
 Spain ’s biggest oil producer faces nationalization of an
Argentine subsidiary that generates 16 percent of revenue.  Swaps on Madrid-based Repsol soared 85 basis points since
the start of the year to a two-year high of 254, according to
CMA, with an increase signaling worsening perceptions of  credit
quality . The company’s bonds lost 1.6 percent in March, the most
of the 50 biggest issuers in Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s EMU
Corporates Non-Financial Index.  Repsol’s YPF unit is Argentina’s largest oil producer and
President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner’s government is
debating whether to take over the company by expropriation or
acquisition, newspaper Pagina/12 reported last week. Policy
makers want to cut reliance on imported fuel and claim YPF is
spending too much on dividends and not enough on exploration.  “The main risk for Repsol is the situation with YPF,”
said Francisco Salvador, a strategist at Madrid-based broker
FGA/MG Valores. “Government intervention in the company could
finish with full nationalization.”  The almost 50 percent increase in Repsol’s default swaps
this year compares with about a 10 percent rise for those of
Oklahoma City-based Kerr-McGee Corp., the next worst-performing
energy company, which is being sued for billions of dollars of
environmental cleanup costs. Swaps on Transocean Inc., the
world’s biggest owner of offshore rigs whose equipment burned
and sank in the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, more than halved
in the same period, while contracts on  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM)  fell by about 40 percent.  Repsol Swaps  Repsol’s swaps are the fourth worst-performing of all
European companies so far this year. They’re up from about 100
basis points a year ago and compare with a record 515 in
December 2008. A basis point on a swap protecting 10 million
euros ($13.2 million) of debt for five years is equivalent to
1,000 euros a year. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  “We believe that we have enough financial flexibility to
continue with our plans,” said Kristian Rix, spokesman for
Repsol in  Madrid . “We have a solid cash position and expect the
startup of new projects to significantly improve our cash flow
position. Those include Bolivia and  Peru , as well as the
completion of a downstream investment plan.”  Pablo Dorfman, a spokesman for YPF, declined to comment.  Privatization  Repsol paid $15.5 billion for more than 80 percent of YPF
during a privatization in 1999 and has since cut its holding to
57.4 percent. Argentina’s Eskenazi family own a 25.5 percent
stake with the government holding 0.2 percent along with a so-
called golden share, which entitles it to block certain
decisions, such as takeovers.  YPF accounted for more than half of Repsol’s reserves as of
the end of 2010, and stripping out those figures skews the
business toward riskier refining operations, according to Fitch
Ratings.  Argentina  is the second biggest national contributor to
Repsol’s revenue after Spain, with 9.6 billion euros last year,
or 16 percent. Spain contributed 29 billion euros and the oil
producer also has operations in countries from  Brazil  to  Russia ,
according to its website.  “You essentially have a downstream Spanish  oil company 
with not a great portfolio of assets, and the situation in
Argentina can only make things worse,” said Alessandro Rovelli,
a credit analyst in  London  at Aviva Investors, which manages 263
billion pounds ($422 billion) in assets and doesn’t hold Repsol
debt.  Share Purchase  Repsol’s net borrowing rose to 6.8 billion euros at the end
of December from 2.9 billion euros in the third quarter, the
company said Feb. 29. Borrowings surged after investments
increased 24 percent and the oil producer bought 10 percent of
its own shares from Sacyr Vallehermoso SA.  The company has  6 billion euros  of bonds outstanding,
including 1 billion euros of notes that are due to mature in
July next year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The average yield on Repsol’s bonds rose 54 basis points
last month to 3.34 percent. The extra yield investors demand to
hold 1 billion euros of 4.875 percent bonds due in 2019 instead
of government debt surged to 361 basis points from a low of 299
on Feb. 29, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Repsol  shares fell  0.4 percent today to 18.19 euros as of
11:34 a.m. in Madrid. That’s the lowest since August and is down
from 24.07 euros at the start of the year.  Ratings Downgrade  The company’s investment-grade  debt rating  was cut one
level to Baa2 at Moody’s Investors Service on March 14 while
 Fitch Ratings  downgraded the oil producer the same amount to BBB
on March 23.  Standard & Poor’s  has kept the company on an
equivalent BBB since July 2006.  YPF has been under increasing pressure to cut dividends and
re-invest cash since it uncovered new oil and gas reserves in
shale formations in the west of Argentina. The Buenos Aires-
based company lost operating licenses in six Argentine provinces
since March 14 after the government demanded higher investment
to lift production.  “The government says the company isn’t investing enough
and is paying too much out in dividends, but the regulatory
environment and business environment deters investment because
of the interventionist regime,” said  Stuart Culverhouse , chief
economist at broker Exotix Ltd. in London.  Fitch said political pressure on the YPF unit prompted it
to strip the subsidiary’s sales and reserves out of its analysis
of Repsol and count only dividends toward the parent company’s
overall performance. Repsol’s rating may come under further
pressure unless holders of the parent company agree to receive
dividends in the form of new stock, it said.  “The situation is becoming more like a Bolivian one rather
than from a developed country,” Salvador said.  Since taking power in 2006,  Bolivia ’s President  Evo Morales 
has changed laws and seized gas fields, oil refineries, pension
funds, telecommunications companies, electricity companies and a
tin smelter to give the state greater control over its industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  