-- Republicans See No Rush to Fill $4.6 Trillion Blank in Tax Plan
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/republicans-see-no-rush-to-fill-4-6-trillion-blank-in-tax-plan.html
U.S.  House Republicans  just passed a
budget that would require eliminating $4.6 trillion in tax
breaks over the next decade. They’re in no rush to show which
benefits they would cut.  Republicans cite political wariness during an election
campaign, slim prospects for an agreement with President  Barack Obama  and a lack of consensus within their own party for their
reluctance to say before November whether they would drop
popular items such as the home mortgage interest deduction to
make up for lower tax rates.  “The president and the Senate would love for us to do
that, because they would release every special interest group
they could get onto us and say, ‘Go sic ‘em,’” said
Representative James Lankford, a freshman Republican from
 Oklahoma  on the Budget Committee. Lawmakers need to “let
Americans start talking about what does that really mean, which
deductions are appropriate and what’s not appropriate.”  When House Republicans return from a two-week recess in
mid-April, they will begin planning sessions on details of their
tax overhaul. Because prospects for a tax rewrite are dim before
the election, they also will discuss dozens of tax breaks that
ended in December and begin crafting a strategy for extending
the George W. Bush-era income tax cuts that expire at the end of
this year.  The budget that  passed  the House 228-191 on March 29 with
no Democratic support would replace the six individual tax
brackets -- and the 35 percent top rate -- with two brackets at
10 percent and 25 percent. The alternative minimum tax would be
repealed. The corporate  tax rate  would drop to 25 percent from
35 percent.  $37 Trillion  The budget would raise $37 trillion over the next decade,
about the same as would be generated by the current tax code if
Congress extends the 2001 and 2003 income tax cuts permanently.  To hit their revenue target with the lower tax rates,
Republicans would need to find  $4.6 trillion  from broadening the
tax base or making other structural tax changes, according to
the  Tax Policy Center , a nonpartisan research group in
Washington. Tax breaks cost the government about $1 trillion a
year, meaning the largest items -- such as the mortgage interest
deduction and the tax-free status of employer-provided health
insurance -- would have to be on the table.  In interviews, Republicans said they can mold a winning
election-year message by talking generally about the economic
growth that would flow from lower tax rates and a simpler
system.  ‘Full Speed Ahead’  Representative Dave Camp of Michigan, chairman of the House
Ways and Means Committee, said he is moving “full speed ahead”
on overhauling the  tax code  though he hasn’t set a timetable for
releasing a bill or getting a House vote. Camp said he foresees
an “open process” with many public hearings and consultations
among Republicans to create a party consensus.  “Part of it is trying to find a path forward that will
allow a bill to pass,” Camp said.  Last year, Camp released proposed changes to international
taxation, including options to pay for ending most taxes on the
foreign income of U.S.-based companies. He hasn’t said how he
would cover the cost of reducing income-tax rates.  “The big money is in the big ones,” said Michael Graetz,
a tax law professor at  Columbia University  in  New York . “Camp
understands the difficulties, and I don’t think he wants to say
too much until he can see a way forward.”  More Specific  Democrats have been urging Republicans to be more specific
about their proposals, particularly on what tax breaks would be
eliminated.  “I’ve been at this for a year trying to get them to
indicate what they would do, and they’ve never done it,” said
Representative Sander Levin of  Michigan , the top Democrat on the
Ways and Means Committee.  In a speech yesterday, Obama said there was “no way”
Republicans could reach their target without affecting middle-
class tax breaks for retirement, health care and homeownership.  “We’re told that these tax cuts will supposedly be paid
for by closing loopholes and eliminating wasteful deductions,”
he said at an Associated Press luncheon in Washington. “But the
Republicans in Congress refuse to list a single tax loophole
they are willing to close, not one.”  28 Percent Rate  The Obama administration has proposed a top corporate rate
of 28 percent and elimination of most tax incentives except
those for manufacturing, renewable energy and research. The
administration’s framework doesn’t show how such a proposal
would add up, and it includes no details on potential changes
such as limiting companies’ interest deductions.  On individual taxation, Obama has talked about making the
tax code simpler while focusing on proposals to raise taxes on
the highest earners as part of his deficit-reduction plan.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  told Camp in a February
hearing the administration won’t propose a comprehensive tax
code overhaul because Republicans aren’t ready to discuss it.  Several House Republicans said they don’t want to engage
too deeply in the details of a tax code rewrite until they’re
sure they have a willing partner in the White House.  “We’re prepared to go when others are serious about it,”
said Representative Patrick Tiberi of  Ohio , chairman of the Ways
and Means panel’s tax subcommittee. “There’s enough meat on the
bones here for members who are thirsty for  tax reform .”  Broadening the tax base isn’t hard, and there are
blueprints available from presidential commissions in 2005 and
2010, said Lawrence Zelenak, who teaches tax law at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina .  ‘Where to Start’  “Any tax expert could tell you where the bodies are
buried, and if you were seriously interested in base broadening,
where to start,” Zelenak said. “The problem is entirely a
question of politics. Any time you broaden the base, you’re
obviously raising somebody’s taxes.”  Representative Devin Nunes of California said he wants to
have detailed plans ready so Congress can move quickly when the
political climate allows it, perhaps in the “lame-duck”
session between the Nov. 6 election and the end of the year.
Lawmakers will also have to address scheduled spending cuts and
a debt-limit increase.  “Who’s going to win? What’s going happen in the Senate?”
said Nunes, who is on the Ways and Means panel. “That’s why we
have to do our work now getting the ideas out there so we’re
ready to go, if we have to, ready to go in the lame duck.”  Camp and several Ways and Means Republicans, who have spent
more time on the issue than others in the House, said they need
to build consensus among Republicans about what to do with the
tax code.  Refine the Standards  “We need to continue to refine the standards and the
criteria and the metrics on what should be retained in the tax
code and what should be removed,” said Representative  Jim Gerlach , a Pennsylvania Republican.  Mitt Romney , the front-running Republican presidential
candidate, has been similarly circumspect. He wants to cut all
six individual brackets by 20 percent each without increasing
the  budget deficit  yet hasn’t said what he would do about tax
breaks.  Tax analysts say many of the breaks Republicans want to
keep, especially preferential rates on  capital gains  and
dividends, benefit higher-income taxpayers. Others up for
discussion, such as the mortgage interest deduction and the
child tax credit, provide benefits more evenly spread along the
income scale.  High-Income Taxpayers  Representative  Paul Ryan  said on MSNBC television on March
20 that he would limit or end some tax breaks for high-income
taxpayers and retain them for others. Ryan, chairman of the
Budget Committee and a Ways and Means member, didn’t specify
where those limits would take effect or the break point between
the 10 percent and 25 percent brackets.  As Republicans sort through these questions, they’ll face a
decision that bedeviled Democrats in 2010 when they controlled
the House: Should they vote before the election on extending the
Bush-era tax cuts that expire at year’s end?  Democrats didn’t do so, in part because they worried they
would be painted as tax-raisers for allowing some tax cuts to
expire. They lost the House anyway and then extended all the tax
cuts for two years after the election in a bipartisan bill.  “It was very difficult, very difficult for us to do,”
said Bill Pascrell, a New Jersey Democrat. “They will proceed
at their own peril.”  Republicans face a different calculation. Even though few
lawmakers want to let all the tax cuts expire, extending them
would be seen as increasing the budget deficit.  “I’d like to see us have strong votes to clearly show
where we stand on taxes,” said Representative Kevin Brady, a
Texas Republican, who said votes on capital gains and dividend
rates would help provide certainty to markets.  “We need to continue to lay out the framework and how we
can get there,” Brady said. “This is inherently difficult, or
else it would be done more than once every quarter-century.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in  Washington  at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  