-- RIM Deal Seen Dubious With Cheapest Value Amid Losses
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-04-04T21:19:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/rim-deal-seen-dubious-with-cheapest-value-amid-losses-real-m-a.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM)  needs more
than the cheapest valuation in the communications-equipment
industry to lure potential buyers. It also needs a hit
smartphone.  RIM of Waterloo, Ontario, said last week it will review
options, including joint ventures and licensing agreements, and
predicted “continued pressure” on revenue and earnings as its
BlackBerry loses market share to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system. After the  shares  fell 77 percent in the
last year, the $6.8 billion company traded yesterday at a 32
percent  discount  to the value of its net assets, the only
communications-equipment maker greater than $5 billion selling
at less than book value, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  With Chief Executive Officer Thorsten Heins saying the
smartphone maker would also consider a sale, an acquirer could
pay a 41 percent premium and still buy RIM at the industry’s
lowest price relative to earnings. Ironfire Capital LLC says RIM
may attract interest from  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  with its operating
system and tablet, while  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  may be drawn by
the e-mail and messaging infrastructure, said Recon Analytics
LLC. Still, the fate of the company -- and any takeover -- rests
on the success of new BlackBerry 10 devices to stabilize
customer losses, according to UBS AG.  “It’s easy to say it’s cheap and that somebody’s going to
acquire RIM, but it becomes a little bit harder in reality,”
 Walter Todd , who oversees about $950 million as chief investment
officer at  Greenwood Capital  in Greenwood,  South Carolina , said
in a telephone interview. “They’ve had some stumbles from an
innovation standpoint. Why rush to catch a falling knife?”  BlackBerry’s Decline  Today, RIM shares fell 1.9 percent to $12.76, the lowest
price since Dec. 20.  Tenille Kennedy, a spokeswoman for RIM, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation and referred to Heins’ comments
last week.  While Heins said on March 29 that a sale would be
considered, it’s not the “main direction” for RIM’s strategic
review. Heins, who became CEO in January, also said RIM will
refocus on business customers and more targeted consumer
segments after sales  missed  analysts’ estimates for the fifth
straight quarter.  RIM’s BlackBerry, the dominant smartphone in the U.S.
before Cupertino, California-based Apple unveiled the iPhone in
2007, has lost market share in the past three years as consumers
turned to iPhones with faster Web browsers and more applications.  ‘Running Away Faster’  While former CEOs  Jim Balsillie  and  Mike Lazaridis , who
both stepped down in January, had assured investors the latest
iteration of its smartphone would deliver a revival, BlackBerry
7 devices with better Web browsing and touch-screen navigation
failed to do so after going on sale last year. Total  sales  last
quarter tumbled 25 percent from a year earlier as  U.S. revenue 
plunged 57 percent, RIM said last week.  The U.S. decline reduced RIM’s share of the worldwide
smartphone market to 8.2 percent in the fourth quarter from 14
percent a year earlier, while Apple’s share rose to 24 percent
from 16 percent, according to research firm IDC. Market share
for Samsung, the biggest handset maker to run Android, jumped to
23 percent from 9.4 percent.  “The competition has more resources, they’re further ahead
and they’re running away faster,”  James Faucette , a Portland,
Oregon-based analyst for Pacific Crest Securities, said in a
phone interview. “At some point it will get cheap enough that
somebody will buy it. I don’t think it’s cheap enough yet.”  Getting Cheaper  Valued as high as $83 billion in June 2008, RIM’s market
capitalization plummeted to $6.8 billion as of yesterday. The
stock’s 91 percent  plunge  from its peak is the second-steepest
in the  Nasdaq-100 Index. (NDX)  In the same time,  Apple shares  have
more than tripled, giving the company a market value of $587
billion as of yesterday.  RIM traded yesterday at 0.68 times the value of its assets
minus liabilities, after falling below book value in November,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its peers had a median price-
to-book multiple of 2.3, the data show.  “I don’t think there’s any urgency to acquire RIM given
what’s happened to the stock,” said Todd of Greenwood Capital.
“Having said that, it is trading below book value and at some
point it becomes attractive.”  The company is also the least expensive in the industry
relative to  free cash flow  and its $1.16 billion in net income
in the last 12 months, the data show.  Stabilizing Sales  After annual revenue at RIM fell for the first time in the
company’s history last year, sales are projected to drop 16
percent this fiscal year to $15.5 billion, according to
analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The company also
posted its first quarterly net loss since 2005. RIM said it will
no longer give financial forecasts, in part because of
“weakness” in its U.S. business.  RIM’s Heins is counting on the new BlackBerry 10 operating
system to stabilize sales. The first device will come out in the
“latter” part of this year, he reiterated last week.  A full takeover of RIM or a licensing deal is “only
conceivable once business conditions stabilize and after BB10
devices have proven some success,” Phillip Huang, an analyst
with UBS in Toronto, wrote in a March 30 note. “RIM’s future
depends on BB10. There is simply too much flux at this juncture
for any acquirer to have a good handle of the intrinsic value of
this company.”  Still, an acquirer could pay as much as $18.37 a share for
RIM and value the company at only 6 times last year’s  earnings ,
less than all of its peers, which trade at a median of 18 times,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. That would be 41 percent higher
than RIM’s closing price of $13.01 yesterday.  Amazon as Buyer  Amazon, which began making electronic reading devices in
2007, has “slowly shown the desire to move into consumer
electronics,” said  Brian Blair , a New York-based analyst at
Wedge Partners Corp. Acquiring RIM would allow Amazon to enter
the mobile handset and smartphone business, he said.  Eric Jackson , president of Ironfire Capital, said Seattle-
based Amazon would be a logical buyer as it looks to shore up
its tablet business.  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman for Amazon, said the company
doesn’t comment on speculation, when asked whether it would
consider buying RIM.  While RIM’s PlayBook tablet initially garnered praise for
its hardware capabilities and the power of its operating system,
the device was panned by other critics for lacking a dedicated
e-mail and calendar program. A series of marketing gaffes and
delay in introducing an e-mail upgrade also hurt sales.  Samsung Chasing Business  Amazon’s unprofitable Kindle Fire tablet has been “very
underwhelming” as readers switch from physical books to digital,
said Jackson. Although sales of RIM’s PlayBook have been
lackluster, its software offers “a potentially legitimate
operating system for them to look at buying that could help
them,” he said.  Samsung, the world’s No. 2 handset maker, may also consider
an acquisition to get a hold of RIM’s business e-mail
infrastructure and messaging service as the Suwon, South Korea-
based company pursues the corporate market, said  Roger Entner ,
an analyst at Recon Analytics in Dedham, Massachusetts. RIM has
77 million subscribers around the world, many of whom are loyal
to their devices because of the free BlackBerry Messenger
instant messaging app.  “Buying BlackBerry would give them that differentiation
factor of superior e-mail and Messenger,” Entner said.  Samsung is not considering an acquisition of RIM, Nam Ki
Yung, a Seoul-based spokesman, said in an e-mail. The company
said it doesn’t comment on market speculation when asked if it’s
considering a licensing deal with RIM.  ‘One-Trick Pony’  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest smartphone maker,
shouldn’t be ruled out as a buyer of RIM because the company
needs to differentiate itself from Android rivals as sales
stagnate, said Entner. The Taoyuan City, Taiwan-based company
has missed analysts’ sales estimates for three straight quarters
because of competition from Apple and Samsung.  “HTC might actually need them more than Samsung does,”
said Entner. “They’re a one-trick pony whereas Samsung makes
everything under the sun.”  Linda Mills, a spokeswoman for HTC, could not be reached
outside of normal business hours.  Even if BlackBerry 10 is able to retain customers, it may
not be enough to fix RIM’s problems and attract buyers,
according to Faucette at Pacific Crest.  “I don’t expect BlackBerry 10 will change things much,”
Faucette said. “Ultimately, they’re a dwindling business.”  ‘Wait and See’  RIM shares fell  9.5 percent  yesterday, the most since
December, on speculation potential bidders are losing interest.  Anil Doradla, a Chicago-based analyst for William Blair &
Co., says RIM is more likely to receive interest in a joint
venture or licensing deal because competitors won’t want to pay
for the whole company.  Matt Thornton , an analyst at Avian Securities LLC in  Boston ,
agrees that investors betting on a sale should think twice.  “I’m sure a lot of people have been kicking the tires, but
I think a sale is pretty tough to come up with,” Thornton said
in a phone interview. Instead, licensing BlackBerry 10 would be
appealing to a company like Samsung to help lessen its
dependence on Android, he said.  Still, if RIM becomes a “single-digit stock,” it may feel
the desperation to sell and suitors may be willing to take the
risk on a full acquisition, said Blair at Wedge Partners.  “RIM, as well as any potential acquirers, are going to
watch and see what happens to RIM’s subscriber base this year
and how the new version of BlackBerry does this year and whether
there’s anything worth owning,” Blair said. “Any potential
suitors are going to wait and see how that’s received by
consumers. Nobody knows just how bad this could get.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Ville Heiskanen at   vheiskanen@bloomberg.net . 