-- Romney Works to Regain Women Voters as He Pivots to Obama
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/romney-works-to-regain-women-voters-as-he-pivots-to-obama.html
For  Mitt Romney , the drawn-out
Republican primary contest that is coming to a close may turn
out to be the easy part.  His wins yesterday in Wisconsin,  Maryland  and Washington,
D.C., primaries solidified his front-runner status in the
nomination contest, even if they didn’t result in his Republican
adversaries dropping out of the race.  Now the former Massachusetts governor shifts to a more
costly and contentious campaign against President  Barack Obama ,
which he starts at a disadvantage with such voting blocs as
women, Hispanic Americans and independents.  Romney, who already is employing anti-Obama messages at
campaign stops, is beginning a targeted appeal to swing voters
in competitive states. Winning them over won’t be an easy task
because he spent much of the last year courting the Republican
Party base by emphasizing his opposition to abortion rights,
federal funding for Planned Parenthood, and a path to
legalization for some illegal immigrants.  “He’s very aware of the challenges he now has with female
voters and Hispanics,” said  Dan Schnur , who advised Arizona
Republican Senator  John McCain  during his 2000 presidential
campaign and now runs the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics
at the University of  Southern California , in  Los Angeles .  ‘In a Hole’  “I don’t know what Mitt Romney thought about illegal
immigration or Planned Parenthood before last summer, but he
spent a great deal of time talking about those issues the last
several months, and while it’s helped him in the primary, he
seems to recognize that he’s in a hole that he needs to find a
way to get out of,” Schnur said.  Romney’s adjustments will be more difficult with Obama and
the  Democratic National Committee  moving to define him
negatively in the eyes of voters. The president criticized
Romney by name yesterday for praising as “marvelous” the U.S.
House-passed budget that Obama described as overhauling Medicare
and cutting domestic programs while lowering taxes for high
earners.  “It is a Trojan horse disguised as deficit-reduction
plans,” Obama said during a speech to newspaper editors in
 Washington , D.C. “It is really an attempt to impose a radical
vision on our country. It is thinly veiled social Darwinism.”  His Chicago-based campaign also released a 30-second
advertisement to run in six swing states that links Romney to
tax breaks for  oil companies .  ‘Out of Touch’  Romney used his victory speech in Milwaukee last night to
fire back.  “President Obama thinks he’s doing a good job. I’m not
kidding; he actually thinks he’s doing a great job,” Romney
said. “Years of flying around on Air Force One, surrounded by an
adoring staff of true believers telling you what a great job
you’re doing, well, that might be enough to make you a little
out of touch.”  Tony Fabrizio, a Republican polling specialist who advised
Texas Governor  Rick Perry  before he left the primary, said
Romney will emerge from the primary better known and less liked
than when he entered.  “He starts the process at a disadvantage, because he came
into this with having not a lot of I.D., but what he had was
net-positive, and he will probably come out of it with more I.D.
but it’s net-negative,” said Fabrizio of Alexandria, Virginia-
based Fabrizio McLaughlin & Associates. “He has ground to make
up.”  Swing-States Poll  A USA Today/Gallup  survey  conducted March 20-26 among
registered voters in 12 politically competitive states showed
Obama leading Romney 51 percent to 42 percent -- a turnaround
from a month ago when Romney led the president 48 percent to 46
percent. The shift was driven mainly by women, who preferred
Obama by an 18-percentage-point margin. That trend was most
evident among those under the age of 50, who were twice as
likely to back Obama -- more than 60 percent of them did -- than
Romney, who drew support from just 30 percent.  The shortfall with women is worse for Romney than the 13-
point deficit that McCain suffered in 2008, when Obama beat him
in part by drawing 56 percent of female voters to his Republican
rival’s 43 percent.  ‘Severely Conservative’  During the primary, Romney -- who has described his record
as “severely conservative” -- has touted his opposition to
abortion rights, backed legislation to allow some employers to
deny  health insurance  coverage for contraception, and said he
would stop funding  Planned Parenthood , a women’s health
organization that provides cancer screenings, routine
examinations, and abortion services.  Romney’s problem with Hispanic voters is even more
pronounced after he rejected proposals to allow illegal
immigrants a path to legalization, including a bill known as the
DREAM Act to let undocumented residents brought to the country
as babies or young children obtain citizenship if they attend
college or join the military. A poll released last month by Fox
News Latino found Romney’s support among likely Latino voters at
14 percent. Obama had the backing of 70 percent of respondents
in that poll.  And the most recent Gallup poll conducted March 25-26 found
Romney trailing the president among independent voters, 40
percent to Obama’s 48 percent.  ‘Cleaning Up’ Perceptions  “Obviously you have to close the gender gap some, and we
definitely need an active campaign in the Hispanic community,”
said  Charlie Black , a Republican campaign strategist who is
advising Romney. Romney also needs to spend time, he added,
“cleaning up a little bit of any negative perceptions that were
created in the primary -- and of course, you have to go back and
check and make sure your base will rally around you.”  Romney will spend the next several months trying to
overcome those hurdles, as well as hiring staff and raising
money for the general election showdown with Obama, his advisers
say.  He is in discussions with the  Republican National Committee 
about holding joint fundraising events, similar to those
currently being held by Obama and the DNC.  “Our donors are ready to mobilize for November and
understand that, for the Republican nominee to be able to
compete with the $1 billion Obama machine, they need to get
started now.  We are confident  Governor Romney  will be that
nominee,” said Andrea Saul, Romney’s spokeswoman.  New Message  The campaign shift is already evident in Romney’s campaign
stump speech and events, both in style and substance. He’s
unveiled a new message that rarely mentions or alludes to his
primary rivals former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum , former
U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , or Texas Representative  Ron Paul  -- instead calling out Obama by name and criticizing his
economic policies.  “President Obama prolonged the recession and slowed the
recovery,” Romney said March 30 in Appleton,  Wisconsin , adding,
“President Obama’s economic strategy is a bust.”  He’s also reaching out to groups he has alienated during
the primary season, including dispatching his wife, Ann, to
campaign stops and media interviews to soften his image and make
an explicit pitch to women. In Wisconsin this week, Romney made
a point of telling voters in Middleton that his party had no
intention of banning contraceptives and isn’t “anti-
immigrant.”  Not Anti-Immigrant  “We have work to do, to make sure we take our message to
the women of America, so they understand how we’re going to get
good jobs and we’re going to have a bright economic future for
them and for their kids, and make sure that these distortions
that the Democrats throw in are clarified and the truth is
heard,” Romney said at the Middleton April 1 event. “We’re
going to have to make sure that, as we speak to Hispanic voters,
that we say, ‘We’re not anti-immigrant.’”  He also took aim at Obama on April 2 in  Milwaukee , saying
the president had done “nothing” to overhaul U.S. immigration
laws, instead using the issue as “a political weapon.”  Romney’s advisers say he can appeal to women and Hispanics
with an economic message that argues that Obama has harmed the
economy and Romney knows how to fix it.  That may prove a more difficult case to make if the economy
continues to improve.  “The biggest challenge for Romney, now that he’s talking
to swing voters rather than the Republican Party faithful, is
convincing them that some economic recovery isn’t enough
economic recovery,” Schnur said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at   or
 Jdavis159@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  