-- Romney Sweeps Three Primaries to Keep Lead Over Santorum
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-04-04T18:18:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/romney-wins-primary-in-maryland-networks-project.html
Mitt Romney  charged President
President  Barack Obama  with harming the  U.S. economy  and trying
to hide his record from voters as he sought to pivot off a trio
of primary wins that solidified his grip on the Republican
presidential nomination.  While Romney stopped short of calling for  Rick Santorum  or
his other rivals to leave the Republican race following his
victories yesterday in Wisconsin, Maryland and Washington, D.C.,
Romney said he hoped the nominating race would be resolved “as
soon as possible” so he could focus entirely on battling Obama.  “With all the challenges the nation faces, this is not the
time for President Obama’s hide-and-seek campaign,” Romney, 65,
told newspaper editors at a convention in a hotel ballroom in
 Washington . “Unlike President Obama, you don’t have to wait
until after the election to find out what I believe, or what my
plans are.”  Questioned after his roughly 20-minute speech about whether
he had asked his Republican opponents to leave the race, Romney
said, “No, I haven’t, but now that you bring it up -- ”  He added: “I hope that we’re able to resolve our
nomination process as soon as possible, of course, because I’d
like to focus time and attention on those key battleground
states, and raising the funds to be somewhat competitive with
the president.”  Rivals Not Mentioned  With Santorum vowing to remain in the race, Romney’s speech
-- which omitted any mention of his Republican challengers --
offered more evidence that the former Massachusetts governor
considers the primary battle effectively over and the nomination
his. Romney’s latest victories bolstered that case, and Obama
for the first time directly engaged him in a speech yesterday to
the editors group.  Obama criticized Romney by name and mocked him for
describing as “marvelous” the U.S. House-passed budget that
would overhaul Medicare and cut domestic programs while lowering
taxes for high earners.  “He said that he’s very supportive of this new budget and
he even called it ‘marvelous,’ which is a word you don’t often
hear when it comes to describing budgets,” Obama said. “It’s a
word you don’t often hear generally.”  ‘Rhetorical Excess’  Romney dismissed the president’s presentation as loaded
with “distortions and inaccuracies,” saying Obama was engaging
in “rhetorical excess” to try to obscure his own record.  Obama, he said today, “came here yesterday and railed
against arguments no one is making, and criticized policies no
one is proposing. It’s one of his favorite strategies: setting
up straw men to distract from his record.”  At a celebratory rally in  Milwaukee  last night, Romney also
directed his fire at Obama.  “President Obama thinks he is doing a good job,” Romney
said. “Years of flying around on Air Force One, surrounded by
an adoring staff of true believers telling you that you’re great
and you are doing a great job, it’s enough to make you think
that you might become a little out of touch.”  Romney dominated Wisconsin -- yesterday’s most competitive
primary -- among almost every demographic group, according to
 exit polls . He made strides with the social conservatives and
evangelical Christians that had previously backed Santorum, as
well as with lower- and middle-income voters.  Romney Dominance  The former private-equity executive won a plurality of
those who consider themselves “very conservative,” a group
that represented about a third of the  Wisconsin  electorate in
the Republican race. Among the strongest supporters of the anti-
government Tea Party movement, Romney won 52 percent.  Santorum only narrowly won a plurality of evangelical
Christians, his strongest base of support, beating Romney 41
percent to 38 percent.  Among those making $30,000 to $50,000 a year, Romney beat
Santorum 40 percent to 31 percent.  As Romney turned his attention to the Democratic president,
Santorum focused on contests three weeks from now and beyond.
Speaking to supporters last night in his home state of
Pennsylvania, which votes on April 24, Santorum assailed Romney
as out of touch with the grassroots of the  Republican Party .  ‘Second Half’  “Who’s ready to charge out of the locker room in
 Pennsylvania  for a strong second half?” Santorum, 53, asked
backers in Mars, Pennsylvania.  “Pennsylvania and half the other people in this country
have yet to be heard,” he said, vowing to keep campaigning “to
make sure their voices are heard.”  Santorum said he will win Pennsylvania and southern states
more favorable to him that hold May primaries. Those include
 North Carolina , West Virginia,  Arkansas  and  Kentucky . Also
voting on April 24, though, are four states where Romney is
favored:  Delaware ,  New York ,  Connecticut  and Rhode Island.  The former senator is facing headwinds from influential
Republican leaders who have been rallying around Romney in
recent weeks. On “CBS This Morning,” Senator John McCain of
 Arizona , the 2008 Republican presidential candidate and a Romney
supporter, said today he hoped Santorum “would understand that
it’s time for a graceful exit.”  Santorum spent the morning greeting voters in a Pittsburgh
suburb and stressing the importance to him of Pennsylvania,
which he represented in the House for four years and the Senate
for 12.  “We have to win here,” he told reporters at Bob’s Diner in
Carnegie, a part of his old congressional district.  “We’re going to work very, very hard. Then we’re going to
get into May,” he said  Wisconsin Tally  In the Wisconsin primary, Romney had 44 percent of the vote
to Santorum’s 37 percent with all precincts reporting, according
to the  Associated Press . U.S. Representative Ron Paul of  Texas 
had 11 percent and former House Speaker Newt Gingrich 6 percent.  In  Maryland , Romney won with 49 percent of the vote to 29
percent for Santorum. In the  District of Columbia , where
Santorum failed to get on the ballot, Romney won 70 percent,
Paul 12 percent and Gingrich 11 percent.  After the latest round of voting, Romney has 655 of the
1,144 delegates needed to capture the nomination, according to
an  Associated Press  tally. Santorum has 278 delegates and would
need to win about three-quarters of those remaining.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net 
John McCormick in Milwaukee at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  