-- RRJ Said to Target $4 Billion as Asia Buyout Funds Grow
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-04-04T22:15:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/rrj-said-to-target-4-billion-as-asia-buyout-funds-grow.html
RRJ Capital Ltd. (RRJCAZ)  and  CDH Investments
Fund Management Co. (CDGUVZ)  are seeking to top the size of their
previous  Asia  private-equity funds as they begin new efforts to
raise capital, according to potential investors.  RRJ Capital, led by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
executive Richard Ong, will seek $4 billion for a fund that
would be one of the largest focused on Asia, said two
prospective clients, who asked not to be named because the
fundraising hasn’t been publicly announced. Beijing-based CDH
plans to seek $2 billion for its next China fund, at least a
third more than its predecessor, said two other investors.  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and TPG Capital are among private-equity managers
amassing multibillion dollar funds as firms compete to
capitalize on Asia’s growth. KKR, based in  New York , is seeking
as much as $6 billion and TPG Capital in  Fort Worth ,  Texas ,
wants as much as $5 billion. Fifty-three pan-Asia funds are
attempting to raise a total of $22.3 billion to invest
exclusively in the region, according to data from  Preqin Ltd. , a
London-based research firm.  There are 407 funds focused, like RRJ, primarily on the
region that are targeting $149 billion, Preqin’s data show. Of
those, 272 funds seeking $90.2 billion are based in Asia.  RRJ Capital, based in  Hong Kong  and  Singapore , raised $2.3
billion (HK$17.9 billion) for its debut fund established in
March 2011. That fund is about 60 percent invested, one
investors said, with stakes in Chinese diaper maker  AAB
Commodities Co.  (ABVZVZ) and  Clean Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE) , a U.S.-based
provider of natural-gas fuel for transportation.  RRJ’s Team  RRJ Capital will start gathering the next fund in the
second half of the year, the investors said.  The firm’s 20-person team has 13 investment professionals,
one of the prospective clients said. They include Richard’s
brother, Charles Ong, who left his post in January as senior
managing director of special projects at  Temasek Holdings Pte. (TMSK) ,
Singapore’s sovereign-wealth fund.  The second RRJ Capital fund will be split evenly between
traditional private-equity assets and more liquid deals such as
private investments in public equities, or PIPEs, the people
said. It will target opportunities in China and  Southeast Asia ,
one of them said.  Last year, RRJ joined with a group including Temasek to
purchase Frac Tech Holdings LLC, a Fort Worth-based hydraulic-
fracturing services company.  Marketing Plans  Richard Ong, who worked as Goldman Sachs’s co-head of Asia
investment bank, left in 2008 to join Hopu Investment Management
Co., a fund set up by Fang Fenglei, who ran Goldman Sachs’s
Chinese securities venture. Ong departed the firm to start RRJ
Capital early last year.  CDH is seeking more than the $1.46 billion its prior fund,
CDH Fund IV, raised in the first half of 2010. The firm will
start officially marketing the fund in the second half of the
year. It may raise as much as $2.5 billion, one investor said.  CDH Fund IV was generating a multiple of 0.9 times invested
capital and a negative 11.5 percent internal rate of return as
of Sept. 30, according to performance data from Washington State
Investment Board, an investor. This fund invests $50 million to
$200 million in both state-owned and privately owned enterprises
in  China , according to minutes from a 2010 meeting of the
pension board.  The firm, formed in 2002, manages more than $7 billion from
about 100 institutional investors. CDH focuses on private
equity,  venture capital , real estate and public equity. The
private-equity division manages more than $4 billion in assets
and has invested in about 50 portfolio companies, according to
its  website .  A spokesman for CDH declined to comment on fundraising
plans. A telephone call to RRJ’s Hong Kong office wasn’t
immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in New York at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  