-- Rubber Declines for Second Day as Expectations for Stimulus Fade
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-04-04T07:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/rubber-declines-for-second-day-as-expectations-for-stimulus-fade.html
Rubber declined for a second day
after the  Federal Reserve  damped expectations for monetary
stimulus, sending the dollar higher and weakening investor
demand for commodities as alternative assets.  September-delivery rubber dropped as much as 1.5 percent to
326 yen a kilogram ($3,945 a metric ton), the lowest level since
March 30, before settling at 327.5 yen on the Tokyo Commodity
Exchange. China’s markets are closed for a holiday.  Asian  stocks  extended a global selloff after Federal
Reserve minutes showed central bankers saw no need for more U.S.
stimulus unless the economy weakened. The dollar rallied to the
highest level in almost two weeks against the euro while oil
fell to a two-day low in  New York , cutting the appeal of natural
rubber as an alternative to synthetic products used in tires.  “The Fed minutes disappointed investors who had braced for
further monetary easing,” Ken Kajisa, an analyst at broker ACE
Koeki Co. in  Tokyo , said by phone today. “Rubber was sold in
tandem with other industrial commodities.”  Losses in futures were limited after data showed U.S. sales
of cars and light trucks rose 13 percent in March, sending the
industry to the best quarterly  pace  since 2008.  Deliveries accelerated to a 14.4 million seasonally
adjusted annual rate from 13.1 million a year earlier, according
to researcher Autodata Corp. Automakers and analysts are
increasing their projections for full-year industry sales,
citing pent-up demand from consumers who delayed purchases
during the recession.  Thai  rubber  on free-on-board basis dropped 0.4 percent to
122.05 baht ($3.94) a kilogram today, according to the Rubber
Research Institute of  Thailand . Losses were limited by a
government policy to boost domestic prices through purchases and
tree-cutting programs, according to Chaiwat Muenmee, an analyst
at Bangkok-based commodity broker DS Futures Co.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in Tokyo at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jarrett Banks at 
 jbanks15@bloomberg.net  