-- San Francisco Giants Plan $1.6 Billion Project Next to Stadium
-- B y   D a n   L e v y
-- 2012-04-04T18:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/san-francisco-giants-plan-1-6-billion-project-next-to-stadium.html
The  San Francisco Giants (BSFGX)  baseball
team is planning a $1.6 billion project to transform the parking
lot next to its stadium into offices, housing and retail.  The Mission Rock development would have as many as 1.7
million square feet (158,000 square meters) of offices, 1,000
residences and shops and restaurants interspersed throughout the
27-acre (11-hectare) site south of AT&T Park, Giants Chief
Executive Officer Larry Baer said in a telephone interview. The
plans include 8 acres of parks and open space, a refurbished
pier and 2,670 parking spaces for games and events.  “This is an opportunity that comes once in a lifetime,”
said Baer, who grew up in  San Francisco  and attended games at
 Candlestick Park , the team’s windswept home from 1960 through
1999, before it moved to the privately financed stadium in the
downtown South of Market district. “It’s a unique confluence of
a spectacular site and really strong neighboring activities.”  The Giants will be “50/50 players” in developing the
property with Baltimore-based Cordish Companies, bringing in
other investors and builders for pieces of the development,
according to Baer and a statement by the Giants. Mission Rock
will be an “enormous economic boost” that creates 7,000 jobs,
according to San Francisco Mayor Edwin Lee.  “Not only does this project include vibrant retail,
transit-proximate housing and needed commercial  office space  for
a new, expanded innovation hub, it creates thousands of
construction and permanent jobs and is a great step forward for
our city,” Lee said today in a statement.  Construction may begin in 2015 and proceed in four phases
through 2021, Baer and the Giants said.  The team submitted plans to the Port of San Francisco,
which owns the land and would grant a 75-year lease if the
project is approved. About $13 million in annual  tax revenue 
would be generated by the development, according to the team.  The Giants and Cordish were the only entities remaining
from a 2008 competition for the site that once included  Boston
Properties Inc. (BXP)  and hedge fund Farallon Capital Management LLC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  