-- San Miguel Agrees to Buy Stake in Tan’s Philippine Air
-- B y   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 2012-04-04T08:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/san-miguel-agrees-to-buy-stake-in-tan-s-philippine-air.html
San Miguel Corp. (SMC) , the  Philippines ’
largest company by revenue, agreed to buy 49 percent stakes in
tycoon Lucio Tan’s airlines for $500 million as it expands away
from food and drink to meet a target of doubling sales.  San Miguel will get the stakes in Philippine Airlines Inc.,
the nation’s largest airline, and low-cost carrier Air
Philippines Corp., President Ramon Ang said in a mobile phone
text message today. The agreements were signed yesterday, the
Manila-based company said in a statement.  The purchase would support Ang’s goal of increasing sales
to 1 trillion pesos ($23 billion) by 2016 through expansion
beyond its main food and brewing business into industries such
as oil, power and infrastructure. It will help unprofitable
Philippine Air raise funds to add planes and routes amid market
share losses to budget airline  Cebu Air Inc. (CEB)  and increased
competition from AirAsia Bhd.  “It might take time to recover the investment, but given
the outlook on tourism and infrastructure, PAL should eventually
contribute to San Miguel’s bottomline,”  Jonathan Ravelas , chief
market strategist at BDO Unibank Inc. in  Manila , said before the
announcement. “San Miguel wants to be an integrator by putting
up a complete infrastructure offering.”  San Miguel  rose  0.8 percent to 114.40 pesos at the close of
trading in Manila, while PAL Holdings Inc., the company that
controls Philippine Airlines, fell 0.1 percent to 8.29 pesos.
The Philippine Stock Exchange Index fell 0.4 percent to
5,038.92.  Trustmark, Zuma  Trustmark Holdings Corp. and Zuma Holdings & Management
Corp., the holding companies of  PAL (PAL)  and Air Philippines, will
issue new shares to a wholly owned unit of San Miguel, according
to the statement. Tan controls Trustmark and Zuma.  PAL had direct and indirect shareholdings of 81.57 percent
and 3.1 percent respectively in Philippine Air, according to a
filing from the holding company in February. Tan controls about
98 percent of PAL through Trustmark, according to  data compiled 
by Bloomberg.  San Miguel’s investment “will help the flag carrier in its
refleeting program and make the airline more viable and
competitive,” Philippine Airlines President Jaime Bautista said
in an e-mailed statement.  Multiple Purchases  San Miguel, the nation’s most acquisitive company, has
 announced 25 deals  worth a total of at least $4.76 billion since
2006 before today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “ San Miguel  won’t invest unless it knows it would
eventually get control,”  said Jose Vistan, research head at AB
Capital Securities Inc. “It’s coming in as a minority investor,
but with capital raising or some arrangement, San Miguel will
likely gain control eventually.”  Manila-based San Miguel started as a brewer in 1890 and has
expanded into heavy industries such as energy, mining and
infrastructure to increase returns.  Net income  declined 13
percent to 17.5 billion pesos in 2011, exceeding the 16.2
billion-peso average of five analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Philippine Air, which began operating in 1941, had a
“total comprehensive loss” of $33.5 million in the quarter
ended December because of weak passenger and cargo demand, it
said in February.  It has lost domestic market share to Cebu Air, which lured
passengers with newer planes and cheaper fares. Competition in
the Philippine airline market has intensified with the entry of
 AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA) ’s local unit, which started flights last month.  Tan and partners gained control of Philippine Air in 1992,
when it was privatized. The billioniaire’s other companies
include  Philippine National Bank (PNB) , cigarette-maker Fortune
Tobacco Corp., and Asia Brewery Inc., the second-largest
Philippine brewer after San Miguel Brewery.  Tan is the second-richest person in the Philippines with a
net worth of $2.8 billion, according to a Forbes magazine
ranking.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecilia Yap in Manila at 
 cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vipin Nair at 
 vnair12@bloomberg.net  