-- Scene Last Night: Bruno Mars, Deneuve, Hanks, Ben Stiller
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-04-04T09:44:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/scene-last-night-bruno-mars-deneuve-hanks-ben-stiller.html
Meryl Streep  played Dorothy last
night, crooning with scarecrow  James Taylor  in the opening
number of the Rainforest Fund concert at  Carnegie Hall .  Sting was the tin man, Elton John the cowardly, fashionable
lion with golden fur on his cuffs and ruby slippers on his feet.  And with a click of the heels, the performers and songs --
all ones used in movies -- changed.  Vince Gill sang “Pretty Woman,” Jennifer Hudson a bluesy
“The Weight” by the Band. Bruno Mars electrified with
“Unchained Melody” and “Jailhouse Rock.”  Impressed, Dr. Eva Dubin -- wife of HighBridge Capital
Management’s  Glenn Dubin  -- said she is thinking about inviting
Mars to entertain at a benefit for the  Dubin Breast Center .  “You need someone young,” Dubin said at the post-concert
dinner at the Pierre.  Sting and his wife, Trudie Styler, founders of the
Rainforest Fund, sat in the center of the room with former
President  Bill Clinton , Donna Karan,  Tom Hanks  and Rita Wilson.  Hanks moved to the lectern when his services to record an
answering-machine message went on auction.  “I’ll do whatever character you want -- Forrest Gump, Bill
Clinton -- but I’m not doing it for $12,000,” Hanks said.  Bids climbed, Hanks persisted. “I won’t put my spirit into
it, I’ll do it very perfunctorily, if I don’t get $25,000,” he
said. The final bid: $26,000. A Chevy Volt also went for that
sum.  Yoga Studio  As the band played “Hit the Road Jack,”  Paul Tudor Jones 
of Tudor Investment Corp. gave yoga practitioner Styler a hug.
His wife, Sonia, who stood nearby, is opening a yoga studio in
Greenwich on April 14.  Michael Novogratz of Fortress Investment Group, headed out
with the goody bag, containing such things as kale chips, a
 Trudie Styler  yoga DVD and Revlon Lip Butter.  The Paris Review goody bag, also obtained last night at the
literary magazine’s Spring Revel, was a bit lighter, yet heavier
all the same. Inside: a Mast Brothers Brooklyn Blend chocolate
bar and the Spring 2012 issue of the literary magazine, which
features a recently discovered interview with Terry Southern.  “That lost interview was a windfall,” Lorin Stein, the
Paris Review’s editor, said at Cipriani 42nd St.  Facebook Founder  Among those he addressed were people who have known
windfalls: Chris Hughes, one of the founders of Facebook, now
the editor in chief and publisher of the New Republic, and an
honorary chairman of the event;  Boaz Weinstein  of Saba Capital
Management LP, who dined with  Ben Stiller  and Stephen Gaghan,
and Emile Westergaard of Perella Weinberg Partners, friends of
Paris Review board member Antonio Weiss, Lazard’s global head of
 investment banking .  Talk about a genetic windfall: Chiara Mastroianni counts as
her parents actors Catherine Deneuve and Marcello Mastroianni.  Fortunately, that hasn’t gone to her head.  “I had a pretty simple and, you know, everyday life,” she
said at the Film Society of Lincoln Center gala presenting
Deneuve with the Chaplin Award on April 2.  Mother and daughter dined at the David H. Koch Theater with
those who’d given tributes, including directors Martin Scorsese
and James Gray and actress Susan Sarandon, who described herself
as the only speaker who had slept with Deneuve, in the film
“The Hunger.”  Also present for the Daniel Boulud-catered affair:  Leon Black  of Apollo Global Management LLC and Thomas H. Lee of Lee
Equity Partners.  Newman Fundraiser  And now for something more bucolic: Also on April 2, tents
and recorded birdsong transformed Avery Fisher Hall into a
summer camp.  The occasion was a fundraiser for  Paul Newman ’s Serious Fun
Children’s Network. The nonprofit formerly known as the
Association of Hole in the Wall Camps operates 28 camps and
programs for children with serious illnesses.  On the program:  Elvis Costello , Paul Simon and Trisha Yearwood -- not exactly sounding like they were singing around a
campfire -- and camp alumni, who traded jokes with Tina Fey and
Jimmy Fallon.  Actor Jake Gyllenhaal said Newman was embarrassed that his
charity-supporting salad dressing outgrossed his films.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 