-- SEC Puts Exchanges on Notice Over Computer-Driven Trades
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-04-04T04:04:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/sec-puts-exchanges-on-notice-over-computer-driven-trades.html
More than five months before a
software error ruined  Bats Global Markets Inc. (BATS) ’s initial public
offering, U.S. regulators put exchanges on notice that they need
to do more to protect investors from technology gone awry.  The missive came in the form of a prologue to a Securities
and Exchange Commission case against Direct Edge Holdings LLC in
October over claims the exchange operator had weak internal
controls that caused its trading system to fail.  The agency, working to avoid another event like the May 6,
2010, rout that erased $862 billion from equities in 20 minutes,
decided to use the Direct Edge case to create a blueprint for
actions against other exchanges, according to a person with
direct knowledge of the decision. While the SEC didn’t fault
exchanges in the 2010 crash, the event magnified pressure on the
commission to show it can ensure the fragmented marketplace of
high-speed, computer-driven trading is safe for investors.  “The consequences of a big failure are so severe that the
SEC should be paying close attention to these issues,” James Angel, a finance professor at  Georgetown University ’s business
school in  Washington , said in an e-mail. “No human system is
perfect and eventually something will happen, so they also want
policies and procedures in place for catching problems quickly
and cleaning up the mess afterwards.”  The 2010 “flash crash,” as it has come to be known,
spawned about 20 separate SEC investigations encompassing a
dozen areas of possible securities law violations, according to
the person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
probes aren’t public. One involves types of orders used on Bats
and Direct Edge, according to another person who declined to be
named because the matter isn’t public.  Focus on Disruptions  While some of the investigations involve possible illegal
trading practices, those that focus on exchanges revolve around
whether the venues have the right compliance structures to
address trading disruptions that could spiral out of control.  Typically, the SEC’s trading and markets division and exam
staff work with exchanges to ensure their internal policies and
procedures are adequate. The Direct Edge case, which was a rare
joint effort by those two offices and the enforcement division,
showed that the agency is ready to impose sanctions on exchanges
that don’t have proper systems in place.  Daniel Hawke, chief of the SEC enforcement’s market abuse
unit, said “exchange conduct and compliance is an area of
renewed enforcement interest.”  ‘Risk of Harm’  “The risk of harm to investors and their confidence in the
fairness and integrity of the markets increases when exchanges
fail to follow or enforce the rules that are applicable to them
or to the member firms they regulate,” Hawke said in an e-mail.  Direct Edge spokesman Jim Gorman, Bats spokesman  Randy Williams ,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  spokesman Robert Madden and  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  spokesman  Richard Adamonis  declined to comment.  Bats, in a  statement  last week, said that it responded
appropriately to a computer malfunction in its IPO auction
process, which triggered problems with its quotations and forced
a halt in  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Still, the public nature of the company’s
March 23 debacle has cast fresh light on the complexity of
modern markets and how regulators are grappling with a
proliferation of electronic trading platforms.  The SEC has asked Bats for information about types of
orders used by some of the fastest automated trading firms, who
attempt to be first in line when supplying bids and offers,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The agency,
interested in orders with so-called price-sliding features, is
also making inquiries about Direct Edge, the person said. Bats
disclosed the matter in an IPO filing in February.  Order Types  The request from the SEC’s enforcement division sought
information about how order types have evolved at the third-
largest owner of U.S. equity exchanges by volume, according to
the filing. Bats said regulators asked for documents “related
to the development, modification and use of  order types , and our
communications with certain market participants,” including
some of Bats’ owners.  The SEC probe, which asked for information about automated
trading firms Tradebot Systems Inc. and Getco LLC, may lead to
guidelines from the regulator about how exchanges communicate
with customers, the person said. Tradebot and Bats were founded
by the same person, Dave Cummings. Getco owns a stake in Bats,
and so does Tradebot.  Sophie Sohn, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Getco, said
the company doesn’t comment on legal or regulatory matters.
Cummings declined to comment.  ‘Unfair Understanding’  “All exchanges have different order types and they’re
designed to incentivize or facilitate trading on that market
venue,” said Adam Honore, research director at Boston-based
Aite Group LLC. “The SEC may want to know if some people have
an unfair understanding of how the market operates that’s not
available to everyone.”  The SEC has approved price-sliding order types at Bats and
Direct Edge. Versions are also available on  Nasdaq  Stock Market
and NYSE Arca. Nasdaq’s offering has been available since at
least 2007, according to rule filings sent to the SEC.  Technology and speed have become more important as trading
has become fragmented across 13 U.S. stock exchanges, several
alternative venues and a few dozen private broker-run markets.
Rival exchanges and venues are tied together through data
linkages and regulations and form a national marketplace that
gives investors a unified view of prices and where shares are
available to buy or sell.  Many of the newer exchanges started as technology-focused
trading platforms. Regulators are concerned that these firms
have less experience with the obligations associated with being
an exchange, including writing and enforcing trading rules,
according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  Outages Inevitable  While technology or system outages “inevitably will
occur” and don’t always violate the law, weak controls can
exacerbate problems and inflict harm on investors, the SEC said
in the  order  against Direct Edge in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey .  The Direct Edge order spelled out what the SEC considers
the exchanges’ responsibilities: “National securities exchanges
are obligated to ensure that their order quoting, routing, and
execution systems, compliance infrastructures, and
communications platforms are developed, maintained, and governed
to avoid material failures, outages, and other significant
contingencies that could pose material risk to the National
Market System and to the public interest.”  To resolve the SEC’s claims, Direct Edge, without admitting
or denying wrongdoing, agreed to implement policies and
procedures to improve its controls. The firm, which had already
paid back $2.1 million to harmed customers, said in October that
it had “vigorously executed” its plan to enhance technology,
personnel and processes.  New Venues  The  New York  Stock Exchange and Nasdaq now account for less
than 26 percent of trading in the corporations they list, down
from 80 percent in 1997, as new trading venues emerged, such as
Direct Edge and Lenexa, Kansas-based Bats. Direct Edge accounts
for  9.3 percent  of U.S. equities volume, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “It used to be that exchanges would never go down,” said
 Larry Tabb , chief executive officer of research firm Tabb Group
LLC in New York. “Today the exchanges focus a lot more on speed
and cost. What the SEC wants is for them to not forget about
resilience and process.”  Larry Harris, a finance professor at the University of
Southern California Marshall School of Business in  Los Angeles ,
said exchanges’ interests as for-profit corporations can be at
odds with their duty to put market stability first.  Conflict of Interest  “The exchanges have a conflict of interest that should be
of concern to any regulator,” Harris said. “They want to stay
open and take order flow and they don’t want to be perceived as
being a problem. But when they have problems, they can’t be
allowed to gum up the system.”  Before trading became predominantly electronic, market
makers could use judgment to stop activity while a problem was
sorted out, Angel said. Computers, on the other hand, are
“mechanical drones.” Since trading can rapidly become
disorganized without proper curbs, the SEC must ensure the
exchanges have effective emergency controls, he said.  Trading disruptions of various sizes occur with some
regularity. In April 2011, Nasdaq voided trades in 84 securities
after a system malfunction produced “invalid and stale”
quotations over 35 minutes, the company said at the time. In
February, NYSE Amex Options canceled 14,000 of more than 31,000
accidental executions in 27 seconds, and a computer error at the
 Tokyo Stock Exchange (TOPIX)  disabled trading of 241 companies for two
and a half hours.  First of Its Kind  In the Direct Edge case, the first of its kind, the SEC
said an untested change to a computer code in November 2010
caused its two exchanges to execute about $773 million in
unwanted trades. In another instance, an administrator
inadvertently stopped the exchange’s ability to process orders.
It took Direct Edge 24 minutes to remove its quotations from the
processors that publish market data to the public, a move that
should have happened “immediately,” the SEC said.  Exchange operators must show they can fulfill their
responsibilities as markets and be able to “avoid material
failures, outages and other significant contingencies” that
could disrupt trading, the agency said in the October order.  “This is not a technology problem where you have to spend
more money,” Aite’s Honore said. “This is standard stuff for
anyone with mission-critical applications. It’s a process
problem where you have to spend more time.”  Direct Edge  submitted  new policies to the SEC on March 22,
including procedures to cancel orders at its routing broker in
the event of an outage or technical problem. The exchange
company said it would also use a third-party broker to liquidate
positions acquired in the account and institute new controls.  Michael T. Dorsey, an attorney at the SEC from 1986 to 1994
later general counsel of  Knight Capital Group Inc. (KCG) , said that
regardless of their cause, trading disruptions mean investors
could make decisions based on bad information.  “If people are induced to trade based on quotation or
last-sale information, the data had better be reliable,” Dorsey
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  