-- Seniors Ration Spending on Drugs as Costs Rise in Weak Economy
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-04-04T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/seniors-ration-spending-on-drugs-as-costs-rise-in-weak-economy.html
U.S. senior citizens are filling
fewer prescriptions for drugs as out-of-pocket costs rise in a
weak economy, undercutting a record level of new product
introductions by drug companies, industry researchers said.  Dispensed prescriptions to patients 65 and older declined
3.1 percent in 2011, compared with a 2.7 percent dip in 2010,
according to a study released today by the  IMS Institute for
Healthcare Informatics  in Parsippany,  New Jersey . For all age
groups, prescriptions fell 1.1 percent last year.  The economy and increased cost-sharing requirements are
causing people to make fewer doctor visits and fill fewer orders
for pills, IMS said. There probably won’t be improvement in 2012
as the economic recovery and population growth aren’t moving
fast enough to boost spending on brand-name drugs, said Michael
Kleinrock, the institute’s research development director.  “We’ve reached a tipping point where patients will take
that increased cost and use less medicine,” Kleinrock said in a
telephone interview. “What they’ve done appears to be rationing
their care.”  Drugs used for chronic diseases, including high  blood
pressure , osteoporosis and cholesterol, saw the biggest drops
among seniors. Patients who skip care because they don’t feel
sick, or who take one pill every two days instead of daily as
prescribed, can end up in more expensive care later, said Larry Kocot, deputy director of the Engelberg Center for Health Care
Reform at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington,  “It’s an indicator of alarm,” Kocot said in a telephone
interview.  Young Patients  People age 19 to 25 filled 2 percent more prescriptions in
2011, led by attention deficit hyperactivity disorder medicines,
antidepressants and antibiotics. The study credits the 2010 U.S.
health-care law, which lets people under age 26 stay on their
parents’ health insurance.  While the number of prescriptions fell, total U.S. spending
on drugs rose 0.5 percent per person to $320 billion in 2011,
according to the report. That figure is up from $195 billion in
2002, said IMS, which tracks prescription numbers and spending,
and sells the information to drug companies and other customers.  Drug industry stocks are up since the start of 2011. The
12-member  Standard and Poor’s 500 Pharmaceuticals Index  gained
about 16 percent since then, compared with an 11 percent jump in
the broader  S&P 500 .  Pharmaceutical companies introduced 34 new drugs last year,
the most in a decade, according to the report. About 80 percent
of the drugs used by patients were copycat versions of older
medicines, like  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s Lipitor, that have lost patent
protection. Generic usage was up from 78 percent in 2010 and 67
percent in 2007.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending  slowed across all areas of health care
last year. The Altarum Institute, a research organization, said
in a February  report  that total health spending in 2011 rose 4.4
percent, “one of the slowest rates in 50 years.”  Five years of economic hardship have caused patients to
change their behavior, rather than continuing to spend normally
during a shorter period of economic difficulty, Kleinrock said.  “If we had a reasonably brief recession, we might have
seen very little change in patients’ long-term usage,”
Kleinrock said on a conference call discussing the study.
Instead, “we’re seeing more people reset their expectations
about how often and what circumstances they’ll visit the doctor
and how they’ll use medicine.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  