-- Sept. 11 Terror Suspects Charged by U.S. Ahead of Trial
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-04-04T19:57:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/sept-11-terror-suspects-charged-by-u-s-military-ahead-of-trial.html
The U.S. military charged five
alleged conspirators in the Sept. 11 terror attacks led by
Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, pushing the case closer to trial after
years of dispute over how they should be prosecuted.  The charges referred to a military commission may lead to
the death penalty, the Defense Department said today in an e-
mailed statement. The five will be arraigned at the naval
station at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, within 30 days after the
appointment of a military judge.  Today’s action revives military charges previously filed in
May 2011 after a long-running dispute over whether the accused
conspirators should be handled by military or civilian courts.
The case was returned to the military system a year ago after
President Barack Obama’s administration abandoned plans to try
the case in federal court in  New York .  “After nine years in captivity, the self-admitted
mastermind of the 9/11 attacks and his four alleged co-
conspirators, may soon finally be brought before the bar of
justice,” Josh Meyer, co-author of the “The Hunt for KSM,”
and director of education for the Medill National Security
Journalism initiative, said in an e-mail. “It is also a huge
step for the Obama administration who campaigned against the
system of justice at Guantanamo.”  Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the  American Civil
Liberties Union , said in an e-mailed statement that “the Obama
administration is making a terrible mistake by prosecuting the
most important terrorism trials of our time in a second-tier
system of justice.”  ‘Time for Judgment’  House Armed Services Committee Chairman Howard “Buck” McKeon said a military proceeding is appropriate.  “It is time for the American people to hear the fullest
possible account of the atrocities,” McKeon, a  California ,
Republican, said in an e-mailed statement. “It’s time for
judgment to be passed.”  Obama, who was elected pledging to close the military
prison at Guantanamo Bay, backed off that position after
resistance from Congress.  The Pentagon also charged Walid Muhammad Salih Mubarak Bin
Attash, Ramzi Binalshibh, Ali Abdul Aziz Ali, and Mustafa Ahmed
Adam al-Hawsawi for planning and carrying out attacks in New
York, Washington and Shanksville,  Pennsylvania  on Sept. 11,
2001, that resulted in the deaths of 2,976 people.  Among the charges are terrorism, hijacking aircraft,
conspiracy, murder in violation of the law of war and attacking
civilians.  Self-Described Mastermind  Mohammed, the self-proclaimed mastermind of the Sept. 11
attacks, also has said he personally killed Wall Street Journal
reporter Daniel Pearl. The confession came at a U.S. military
hearing at Guantanamo Bay in March 2007, and he hasn’t been
charged in the Pearl case.  Pearl, who was South Asia bureau chief for the newspaper,
was kidnapped in Karachi,  Pakistan , on Jan. 23, 2002. A video of
his decapitation was sent to the U.S. consulate in Karachi on
Feb. 22 of that year.  Mohammed who was captured in a 2003 raid in Pakistan was
held by the CIA until 2006 before being sent to Guantanamo. The
spy agency has said Mohammed was one of three al-Qaeda
operatives who were “waterboarded,” a procedure that simulates
drowning. Mohammed was “waterboarded” 183 times, according to
government documents. The U.S. has since banned that
interrogation method that critics such as  Human Rights Watch 
call a torture technique.  Disputed Evidence  Any evidence obtained through torture won’t be admissible
in a trial, former U.S. Air Force Brigadier General  Thomas
Hartmann , who oversaw the U.S. military commissions in
Guantanamo said in 2008. Hartmann retired in 2009.  Meyer said the U.S. dispatched “clean teams” of agents
from the FBI and other agencies for fresh interviews of the
accused in an effort to gather admissible evidence untainted by
waterboarding. The agents spent at least four days questioning
Mohammed and getting statements they believed would be usable,
Meyer said.  The case is  United States  v. Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, et al.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net ;
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  