-- Serbian President Steps Down Seeking Re-Election
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-04-04T11:13:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/serbian-president-steps-down-to-pave-way-for-early-elections.html
Serbian President  Boris Tadic , the
nation’s most popular politician, stepped down eight months
before his term ends, to link a new presidential election to the
May 6 general vote and help his party remain in government.  He announced the decision today as opinion polls show a
widening lead for the biggest opposition group over his
Democratic Party at a time when the  economy  is faltering, the
dinar trades is the weakest in a decade and unemployment rises.  Tadic, who pushed former  Yugoslavia ’s biggest state closer
to joining the European Union and turned over suspected war
criminals more than a decade after the Balkan civil wars, is
leading his party’s campaign across the country. Unlike his
Hungarian colleague  Pal Schmitt , who was toppled amid a
plagiarism row, Tadic seeks to win the elections and return to
power.  “I have decided to cut short my term in office, in line
with the Constitution,” Tadic told reporters in Belgrade,
adding that he will sign and send the letter of resignation to
the parliament speaker tomorrow. “I will take part in the next
elections full of optimism.”  Serbia’s dinar slipped to 111.6722 to the euro at 10:10
a.m. in Belgrade from 111.6557 to the euro before the news. The
main stock market index of 15 most actively traded assets was
0.2 percent down on the day, at 527.76 points, barely a quarter
of what it was in 2007, the year before Tadic was re-elected and
his party formed a coalition government with dozens of smaller
parties.  Elections Full of Tension  The 53-year-old head of state is handing over his mandate
to Parliamentary Speaker Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic, a member of
the junior coalition partner  Socialist Party , which is a junior
partner in the ruling coalition and the party of former Serbian
strongman  Slobodan Milosevic .  Socialist leader Ivica Dacic opposes the plan for elections
to be held on the same day and is prepared to run against Tadic,
according to Blic newspaper.  “The elections will be difficult, full of tension,” and
it will be up to the “citizens to say which path they want to
choose,” Tadic said, adding that his offer is “that we
continue along the same path” of Serbia’s EU integration.  Tadic would defeat his main challenger,  Tomislav Nikolic ,
the leader of the  Serbian Progressive Party , according to a Nov.
3 opinion survey, the latest available to measure political
leaders’ popularity. Tadic won the presidential elections twice,
in 2004 and 2008, defeating Nikolic both times.  Charismatic Leader  The president’s  Democratic party  trails behind him in
popular support and would win 29.1 percent of the votes, while
the opposition Progressives would get 33.2 percent, according to
a March 26 opinion survey conducted by Belgrade-based Faktor
Plus pollster in the week starting March 18 among 1,184 people
and with a margin of error of 3 percent. The survey did not
provide ranking for Dacic.  “Tadic is a charismatic leader” with strong support among
the people and in many cases, those who vote for one leader also
vote for his party, Vladimir Goati, who chairs Transparency
International’s Serbian arm, said in a live program on B92
television. “That’s why other parties are afraid of all
elections being held at the same time. Tadic remains ahead of
all other” party leaders, he said.  The presidential vote must be called at least 90 days
before the president’s term in office expires and held within 60
days, according to the Constitution. Tadic took office on Feb.
15, 2008.  Cabinet’s Record  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s Cabinet, which took office
in July 2008, just months before  Serbia  felt the worst pinch of
the crisis caused by the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc., ends its term with the dinar 32 percent weaker than in
2008, unemployment 10 percentage points higher and public debt
of 14.4 billion euros ($19.2 billion), or 45 percent of GDP,
marking a 16 percentage-point expansion over four years.  The election campaign has focused on pledges to fight
corruption, organized crime, the economic sluggishness.
Politicians have promised to lure billions of dollars of new
investments and create new jobs at a time when 1.7 million
people in a country of 7.2 million have formal employment and
take home an average wage equivalent to 360 euros ($480).
Serbia’s economy is forecast to grow 0.5 percent in 2012.  IMF, EU Talks  The IMF suspended its $1.3 billion precautionary loan
program with Serbia in January, after it became clear that this
year’s fiscal gap would amount to 5.25 percent of GDP, rather
than the agreed 4.25 percent, excluding sovereign guarantees and
the government’s new bond sales. The lender will wait for a new
government to take office and to re-negotiate the pact.  The country officially became an EU candidate on March 1
and is still waiting for the date of entry talks. The
Progressives have backed Serbia’s EU path so far, even though
they have made it clear their first-choice ruling partner is
former Prime Minister Vojislav Kostunica, whose program calls
for abandoning EU membership and closer cooperation with  Russia .  The Socialists, whose rule was marked with bouts of hyper-
inflation and currency denominations in the 1990s under
Milosevic, promise never to  cooperate  with the IMF because of
the lender’s “wrong policies” and would  print money  to kick-
start the sluggish economy. They also stress Serbia’s right to
“protect its sovereignty in  Kosovo ,” the province that
unilaterally declared independence in 2008.  Tadic said he seeks EU entry without recognizing Kosovo’s
independence.  The government has stepped up spending on subsidies ahead
of the vote and used cash from its reserves to finance the
fiscal deficit, which soared past 41 billion dinars in the first
two months of 2012, compared with a three-month cumulative
target of 26 billion dinars agreed with the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  