-- Service Industries Probably Expanded as U.S. Recovery Broadened
-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/service-industries-probably-expanded-as-u-s-recovery-broadened.html
Service industries  in the U.S.
probably expanded in March, showing the economic recovery is
widening, economists said before a report today.  The  Institute for Supply Management ’s non-manufacturing
 index  fell to 56.8 from 57.3 in February, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 68 economists. It
would match January as the second-strongest in a year. Readings
greater than 50 signal growth.  Sales at businesses like restaurants and retailers are
climbing as an improving labor market shores up household
incomes and confidence in the face of more expensive  gasoline .
Since mid-2011, the industries that account for almost 90
percent of the economy have outpaced gains in manufacturing,
which had been at the forefront of the two-year expansion.  “Strength is broadening out,” said  Omair Sharif , an
economist at RBS Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If
you look at job growth, gains in wages and salaries and the fact
that more non-manufacturing industries are contributing to
growth, there is a really nice pickup.”  The Tempe, Arizona-based group’s data are due at 10 a.m. in
 New York . Estimates in the Bloomberg  survey  ranged from 54 to
62. The gauge has averaged 53.3 since the recession ended in
June 2009.  Adding Jobs  An improving labor market has helped boost demand and lift
consumer sentiment. Figures from ADP Employer Services, released
at 8:15 a.m., may show companies added 206,000 workers to
payrolls in March following a gain of 216,000 the prior month,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey. A Labor
Department report on April 6 is projected to show private
employment, which excludes government jobs, climbed by 215,000
in March.  Households are feeling more optimistic as a result of the
job gains. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s final
index of consumer sentiment rose last month to 76.2, the highest
since February 2011.  With the labor market on the mend and confidence improving,
Americans boosted their spending in February by the most in
seven months. Purchases climbed 0.8 percent, Commerce Department
data showed last week.  “The economy is beginning to pick up a little steam,”
Mark Lemond, president and chief executive officer of  Shoe
Carnival Inc. (SCVL) , said in a March 21 conference call. “When the
customer has money in their pocket, they’re definitely willing
to spend it. This bodes well for the rest of 2012 and beyond.”  Sales Projections  The Evansville, Indiana-based retailer said it expects
same-store sales to increase 5.5 percent to 7 percent in the
first quarter.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index, which
includes companies like Macy’s Inc. and Expedia Inc., has
 climbed  19 percent since the beginning of the year. That
compares with a 12 percent gain in the broader  S&P 500 Index .  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week
that while he was encouraged by recent data showing an improved
economy, a further reduction in the  jobless rate  will probably
require a quicker expansion of business production and consumer
demand, which “can be supported by continued accommodative
policies.”  Recent “better news” on the  U.S. economy  has also
included strength in manufacturing, Bernanke said. The
improvement could contribute to higher consumer confidence and
lead to a self-sustaining recovery, he said. “We haven’t seen
that in a persuasive way yet,” Bernanke said in a speech in
Arlington, Virginia.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  