-- SFO Refused Trial Delay as It Probes Tchenguiz Arrest Errors
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-04-04T18:32:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/sfo-refused-trial-delay-as-it-probes-tchenguiz-arrest-errors.html
The U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office was
denied more time to prepare for a trial over its handling of the
2011 arrests of real estate investors Vincent and  Robert Tchenguiz .  While the watchdog started an internal review of “errors”
it made, its lawyers said, the probe was complicated by the
departure of key staff involved in the criminal investigation,
including the man who led it, Mick Randall.  Judge John Thomas ruled the trial should be held May 22 as
planned and criticized the SFO for not reporting potential
delays earlier.  The only explanation is “sheer incompetence,” he said at
the hearing today in  London . “I have never come across anything
like this.”  The SFO wanted the judicial review of the arrests to be put
back while it tried to “reconstruct on what basis the
information was put together” using independent experts, said
the regulator’s lawyer, James Eadie. The Tchenguiz brothers
claim their detentions in March 2011 were unlawful. They were
among seven men arrested as part of an SFO investigation into
the collapse of Iceland’s Kaupthing Bank Hf.  SFO spokesman  David Jones  didn’t respond to phone calls
requesting comment.  The brothers are seeking millions of pounds in damages,
attorneys for the SFO said. The court granted a request from the
brothers in February for a review of their arrests, which the
men claim were unlawful because the warrants were obtained with
incorrect information.  No Charges  Facing dwindling resources resulting from government budget
cuts and staff departures, the SFO closed at least five major
probes in the past three years without bringing any charges. Its
director,  Richard Alderman , is stepping down this month.  Vincent Tchenguiz’s lawyer Ben Emmerson said the regulator
had relied on incorrect information from Grant Thornton LLP
about how the brother’s valued their assets in pursuing the
arrests.  “This case has been hanging over my head for a long
time,” Vincent Tchenguiz said outside court. “The sooner we
can achieve clarity in my attempt to clear my name the better.”  Jason Gowar, a London spokesman for  Grant Thornton , didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call and e-mail asking for
comment.  The case is Robert Tchenguiz v. Director of the Serious
Fraud Office & Anr,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division, Administrative Court, CO/4468/2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Scinta at 
 cscinta@bloomberg.net  