-- Ship Smog Seen as Next Target to Clear Hong Kong Skies
-- B y   B e n   R i c h a r d s o n
-- 2012-04-04T16:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ship-smog-seen-as-next-target-to-clear-hong-kong-skies.html
As OOCL London entered the English
Channel in early February, the 323-meter vessel owned by  Hong
Kong ’s biggest container line was forced to switch from burning
the black sludge known as bunker oil to less polluting fuel.
That wasn’t the case in the ship’s home harbor last week.  Vessels calling at  North Sea  and Baltic ports must use fuel
containing no more than 1 percent sulfur to cut emissions
estimated to cause at least 60,000 deaths a year worldwide.
Ships steaming into Hong Kong are free to burn less costly 3.5
percent sulfur oil, which means they account for a growing share
of the city’s air pollution and threaten the health of more than
25 million people in  China ’s  Pearl River Delta .  Emissions from  Orient Overseas International Ltd. (316) ,  A.P.
Moeller-Maersk A/S (MAERSKB)  and their rivals are under rising scrutiny as
Hong Kong seeks to fix a mounting smog problem at home and meet
the demands of leaders in Beijing to deliver cleaner air.
Tightening marine fuel standards in the delta will add to costs
for shipping lines, already squeezed by record energy prices and
too many vessels competing for cargos.  “The central government has realized the export processing
of shower flip-flops is not necessarily the way to conquer the
world, but it is a good way to trash your environment,” said
Mike Kilburn, head of environmental strategy at  Civic Exchange ,
a Hong Kong-based research body advising on policy. China
“wants to move away from a purely economic-driven model to
recognize quality of life as well.”  More ‘Livable’  The government in Beijing in 2008 set a target to create
more “livable” cities in the  Pearl River Delta , a region
encompassing Hong Kong, Shenzhen and Guangzhou. Those three
cities together processed the equivalent of about 60 million
standard 20-foot cargo boxes in 2010, double the volume of
 Shanghai , the world’s biggest container port, according to a
November  report  by CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets.  Asia  has the
highest concentration of people at risk from ship pollution
because of the combination of big ports, trade-centered
economies and urban concentration, it said.  So-called Emission Control Areas are either in place or
will be for almost the entire U.S. coast by August, as well as 
ports in the  English Channel , North and Baltic Seas. Ships 
entering those zones must use 1 percent sulfur fuel now and will 
have to switch to 0.1 percent by 2015. Under International 
Maritime Organization rules, all ocean-going vessels will have 
to burn 0.5 sulfur at sea by 2020.  One-Time Switch  Hong Kong is “fully determined” to tighten standards “as
soon as possible,” said Pearl Ng, a spokeswoman for the
Environmental Protection Department. Bringing all of the Pearl
River Delta under an ECA is a longer term aim that requires a
submission to the IMO by the central government, she said.  The government is now working out how to mitigate costs
from fuel switching, she said. Moving to a mandatory 0.1 percent
cap for vessels at berth as well as all local craft would
maximize the benefits for clean air while creating a big enough
market for the cleaner fuel that costs would be reduced.  The total operating loss of 22 container liners surveyed by
Alphaliner, a shipping data provider, reached $5.6 billion last
year, from operating earnings of $12.1 billion in 2010.  “This year’s performance depends on bunker prices,” Li Shaode, chairman of  China Shipping Container Lines Co. (2866) , the
country’s second-biggest cargo-box carrier, said last week when
announcing a 2.7 billion yuan ($429 million) loss for last year.  Bunker fuel  in  Singapore , the largest refueling port, has
averaged $732.88 a metric ton since Jan. 1, its highest start
for a year since Bloomberg began tracking prices in 2002. The
price of 0.5 percent gasoil in Singapore averaged $863.72 a ton
this year, also a record. A 10-year-old, 5,000-unit container
ship sailing at 22 knots consumes 24 tons of fuel a day,
according to Morgan Stanley.  Blending Costs  Blending higher quality fuels with bunker to meet the
current 3.5 percent IMO sulfur limit adds about $4 to $5 a ton,
Basheer Ahmed Sayeed, chief executive officer of fuel trader
Chemoil Adani (Singapore) Pte., said in an interview last month.
Bunker fuel prices will continue to rise as sulfur
specifications tighten in coming years, he said.  With a cargo capacity of 99,636 deadweight tons and about
the length of three football fields, OOCL  London  holds as many
as 8,063 cargo boxes, data compiled by Bloomberg show. There
were 63  container ships  able to carry more than 5,000 units, in
Pearl River waters on April 3, the data show.  At those kinds of concentrations, the ships’  engines 
consume energy at rates similar to the biggest power stations,
said Simon Ng, a researcher into marine pollution at  Hong Kong
University  of Science and Technology. Unlike power stations,
their emissions aren’t regulated beyond the IMO’s sulfur-content
cap of 3.5 percent -- 3,500 times higher than the auto diesel
sold in Hong Kong.  Mark Wong, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Orient Overseas,
declined to comment for this article.  Still Polluting  When docked, vessels need to keep their power systems
running. Under a voluntary charter that expires at the end of
this year, shipping lines representing more than 80 percent of
container trade in Hong Kong agreed to burn fuel with a 0.5
percent sulfur content or less when their ships were at berth or
anchored. That’s still 500 times higher than auto diesel.  Hong Kong has set aside $33 million over three years to
give ships burning 0.5 percent fuel a 50 percent discount on
port charges.  Even at lower levels of sulfur, vessels moored at the Kwai
Chung container port or Tsim Sha Tsui cruise operators’ terminal
are belching pollution in congested residential and tourist
areas, as well as at  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
bankers working in the 118-story  International Commerce Centre 
in Kowloon.  Partial Approach  While such voluntary efforts help cut emissions at berth,
they don’t address pollution caused by ships on their approach
or departure from Hong Kong. As regulation of power stations and
vehicle emissions takes effect, ships’ contribution to the total
is growing along with global trade volumes, according to Civic
Exchange.  Soot from burning marine fuel accounted for 31 percent of
respirable particles in Hong Kong’s air in 2008, according to
the city’s government. The  World Health Organization  estimates 9
percent of lung cancers worldwide are linked to the tiny
particles that can penetrate deep into the airways.  Ship pollution in Hong Kong made up 23 percent of sulfur
dioxide and 27 percent of nitrogen oxides, gases whose health
impact is greater than earlier thought, based on new data, said
Hak-kan Lai, assistant professor in the school of public health
at Hong Kong University.  ‘Delay, Denial’  Worldwide, premature deaths linked to marine emissions may
have risen from 60,000 five years ago to about 84,000 today,
according to a 2007 study led by James Corbett, a professor at
the School of Marine Science and Policy in Delaware University.  Policy changes have been hindered by a “lack of political
will” together with “delay tactics and denial,” Lai said.  The only question for shipping companies now is when
tighter fuel standards are introduced.  “Everyone wants to be cleaner, but they want regulation,”
said Veronica Booth, who has been leading Civic Exchange’s
harbor policy work since 2008. “The second there’s regulation,
they can pass on the cost to their customers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Richardson in Hong Kong at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  