-- Singapore Cuts Options for Wealthy Seeking Permanent Stay
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   P h a n g
-- 2012-04-04T10:53:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/singapore-cuts-options-for-wealthy-seeking-permanent-residence.html
Singapore  will end a program that
allows wealthy individuals to gain permanent residence quicker
by putting money in the island, after an influx of foreigners in
recent years spurred property prices and fueled voter anger.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore will scrap its so-
called Financial Investor Scheme, the central bank said in an e-
mailed response to queries. The program allowed individuals with
net personal assets of S$20 million ($16 million) who hold at
least S$10 million of assets in Singapore for five years to
apply for permanent residence on a “fast track” through
financial institutions, the Business Times reported today.  Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong has moved to address public
discontent over  rising prices  and a surge in foreigners and
permanent residents to more than a third of the 5.2 million
population, which hurt support for his ruling party in last
year’s election. The government has also increased taxes for
non-Singaporeans buying property on the island, tightened rules
for overseas workers and increased levies imposed on companies
that hire them.  “In the recent review, the focus was on engaging and
entrenching quality individuals who can contribute to Singapore
and are keen to be rooted in Singapore,” the central bank said.
“It would be more efficient to have a single investor permanent
residence scheme” in the form of the Global Investor Programme,
a similar program administered by the  Economic Development Board ,
it said.  Further Tightening?  To become a permanent resident under the Global Investor
path, foreigners need to invest S$2.5 million in a new company
or to expand an existing business, which should have an annual
revenue of at least S$30 million, according the Economic
Development Board, which helps draw investments to Singapore.  The requirements may also be changed from April 15, the
government agency said, without specifying details. The Business
Times said today permanent residents who gained entry under that
program will be required to show they spent a certain amount in
the city-state annually when their status is up for renewal
three or five years later, citing a person it didn’t identify.  “The government is dead serious about bringing stability
to the  property market  for the long run,” said Song Seng Wun,
an economist at CIMB Research Pte based in Singapore. “Hence it
is looking at ways and means beyond the straightforward measures
like taxes.”  Under the Financial Investor Scheme, which is being
scrapped, as much as S$2 million of the S$10 million foreigners
must hold in Singapore can be used to buy homes, according to
the Business Times.  Concentration of Millionaires  The  Boston Consulting Group  said in May 2011 Singapore’s
millionaire population expanded the fastest globally, rising by
almost 33 percent. The city also had the highest proportion of
millionaire households at 15.5 percent, followed by Switzerland
and Qatar, the study showed.  Singapore  home prices  fell in the quarter ended March 31
for the first time in almost three years after the government
imposed new taxes, according to preliminary estimates released
by the  Urban Redevelopment Authority  this week.  The government has been attempting to rein in prices since
2009, when it barred interest-only loans for some housing
projects and stopped allowing developers to absorb interest
payments for apartments still being built. Foreigners and
corporate entities have to pay an additional 10 percent stamp
duty following measures introduced in December.  The city has added about 1 million people since the
beginning of 2005 as the government allowed more immigration to
make up for a declining birth rate. The influx contributed to
crowded public transportation and more competition for jobs,
public housing and places in schools, fueling voter anger that
led to Prime Minister Lee’s ruling party retaining power last
year with its smallest electoral win since independence in 1965.  Finance Minister  Tharman Shanmugaratnam  said in his  budget 
speech in February the government would cut the proportion of
foreign workers that companies can hire and may consider further
increasing levies for employing them.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  