-- America Movil Asks Colombia to Stop Targeting Prices
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-04-04T20:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/slim-s-america-movil-asks-colombia-to-stop-targeting-its-prices.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the wireless
carrier controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , asked  Colombia ’s
government to stop singling it out for price controls and
regulations the company said are harmful to consumers.  Rules proposed in September that specifically target
America Movil would be unfair, Alejandro Cantu, the carrier’s
general counsel, wrote in a  letter  to  Information Technology  and
Communications Minister Diego Molano. The rules would force
Mexico City-based America Movil to charge the same rate for
calls on its network and to competitors. They would also require
the company to pay more to rivals to complete calls on their
networks than it’s allowed to charge to receive calls from them.  Staving off new rules would help America Movil protect its
lead in its third-largest market by sales after  Mexico  and
 Brazil . The company’s wireless revenue in Colombia grew 13
percent last year to 7.13 trillion pesos ($4 billion), even as
its market share  fell  to 62 percent from 66 percent in 2010.  “These measures affect the legal certainty that is
required to make investments in a capital-intensive industry,”
Cantu said in the letter dated March 15, which was published
yesterday on the Colombian news site Evaluamos. “Regulations
should tend to promote competition, not competitors.”  In an e-mail, Cantu confirmed the authenticity of the
letter. The ministry had no immediate comment, said Margarita
Maria Mora, a spokeswoman.  ‘Market-Share Power’  “It clearly has to do with their prodigious market share
in the country,” said  Christopher King , an analyst at Stifel
Nicolaus & Co., of the new regulatory proposal. “The Colombian
regulators are of the opinion that the market share power Comcel
has there is not good for the industry or the country’s
economy.”  In addition to the September proposals, Cantu said a 2009
measure by the ministry was harmful and hasn’t helped users. In
that decision, the regulator ruled that  America Movil ’s
Colombian unit, Comcel, was dominant and capped its prices for
calls to rival networks.  That decision has cost Colombian consumers $100 million in
higher prices, according to a study by NERA Economic Consulting
that America Movil commissioned and sent to the regulator. The
new proposals will cost hundreds of millions of dollars more,
NERA found.  Commissioned Studies  “There is no reason to believe that the significant cost
that these regulations would impose on Colombian consumers would
result in greater, or for that matter any, offsetting long-term
gains in consumer welfare,” Gregory Sidak, chairman of
Criterion Economics LLC in  Washington , said in a separate
commentary also commissioned by America Movil and submitted to
the regulator. “The sole beneficiaries of the proposed
regulations are Comcel’s competitors.”  The new regulations would send a “substantial volume” of
Comcel customers and sales to  Telefonica (TEF)  SA and  Millicom
International Cellular SA (MIC) , unless those carriers raise prices to
hold on to profits from the higher fees they get from America
Movil, Sidak said.  Molano, who was named to lead the ministry in 2010, was
previously deputy director of corporate relations for  Latin
America  for Madrid-based Telefonica, the second-biggest
Colombian wireless carrier after America Movil.  ‘Regulatory Pressures’  In Mexico, where America Movil has 70 percent of wireless
subscribers, regulators are considering measures to govern the
company’s prices and quality after the nation’s antitrust
commission found the carrier dominant in the market.  America Movil reported a Colombian profit margin last year
of 48 percent, leaving out interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization. Of its operations in 18 countries, only Mexico and
 Ecuador  were more profitable.  “We continue to see the company under increasing
regulatory pressures across all its key markets,” said King,
who advises holding on to the shares. “These are certainly
issues that investors are going to have to deal with with
America Movil for a while.”  America Movil  fell  1.4 percent to 15.58 pesos at the close
in Mexico City.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  