-- Slovak President Appoints Premier Fico’s ‘Pro-European’ Cabinet
-- B y   R a d o s l a v   T o m e k   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-04-04T11:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/slovak-president-appoints-premier-fico-s-pro-european-cabinet.html
Slovak President Ivan Gasparovic
appointed a new government led by  Robert Fico , who pledged a
“pro-European” administration after the previous Cabinet held
up the approval of an enhanced euro-region aid fund.  Slovakia unsettled investors in October when it delayed
approval of a strengthened bailout fund for the euro area. Fico,
whose Smer party later pushed the measure through in exchange
for early elections, has said the country will “no longer be
the troublemaker” as European leaders seek measures to end the
debt crisis.  Fico’s Smer won 83 of Parliament’s 150 seats in the March
10 vote on pledges to tax the rich and the most profitable
companies, allowing the party to form the Cabinet without a
ruling partner.  “I have government experience, but I am fully aware that
the new government term, which we are entering now, will be
radically different,” from my previous term, Fico said after
being appointed by Gasparovic.  Fico will rule in a different environment compared with his
first government term six years ago, when the economy expanded a
record 10.5 percent in 2007. Growth is set to slow to 2.3
percent this year, from a 3.3 percent increase in 2011, the
Finance Ministry estimates.  Gasparovic named Peter Kazimir, a Smer vice chairman, as
finance minister. He will oversee the country’s commitment to
cut the  budget deficit  below 3 percent of gross domestic product
in 2013. Kazimir, 43, was a deputy finance chief during Fico’s
previous rule from 2006 to 2010. He helped oversee Slovakia’s
entry into the euro region in 2009 as well as participation in
the creation of the area’s bailout mechanisms.  Miroslav Lajcak, the managing director for Russia, Eastern
Neighborhood and the Western Balkans in the EU’s External Action
Service, will return as foreign affairs minister.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Radoslav Tomek in Bratislava at 
 rtomek@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  