-- Somali Suicide Bomb Kills Four at National Theater, Premier Says
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-04-04T15:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/somali-suicide-bomb-kills-four-at-national-theater-premier-says.html
At least four people were killed
when a bomb exploded at Somalia’s national theater in Mogadishu
in an attack claimed by the Islamist al-Shabaab group, Prime
Minister Abdiweli Mohamed Ali said.  The president of Somalia’s Olympic Committee and the head
of the football association were among the dead, he told
reporters today in the capital. A woman carried out the suicide
bombing at the theater during a ceremony marking the one-year
anniversary of Somali National Television, the  African Union 
said in an e-mailed statement.  Premier Ali said he was giving a speech when the bomb
exploded. Planning Minister Abdullahi Godah Barre was injured,
he said.  “Yet again the terrorists’ methods show that they are
enemies of peace and are foreign to Somali culture,” the acting
commander of the African Union peacekeeping force in Somalia,
Brigadier General Audace Nduwumunsi, said in the statement. “By
their attack they are trying to derail the hopes and dreams of
the Somali people, but they will fail.”  The government has proposed peace talks with al-Shabaab,
which is linked to al-Qaeda, on the condition that it lay down
its weapons, Foreign Minister Abdullahi Haji Hassan said in an
interview on March 14 in Johannesburg.  African Union-backed government soldiers regained control
of the capital after al-Shabaab withdrew in August to begin a
guerilla campaign.  Earlier, lawmaker Fahmed Ahmed, in a telephone interview,
said that at least 15 people died. She later said 15 were
wounded and several had died.  Al-Shabaab said it carried out the attack, according to
Amirrnuur.com, a website that supports the group. The group has
waged an insurgency against the United Nations-backed
transitional administration of Somali President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed since 2007.  The theater opened two weeks ago for the first time in 20
years, the African Union said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu at 
 ohamsa@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  