-- Somali Islamist Suicide Bombing Kills 15 at National Theater
-- B y   H a m s a   O m a r   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-04-04T13:40:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/somalia-theater-explosion-kills-more-than-15-people.html
More than 15 people were killed when
a woman carried out a suicide bombing at Somalia’s national
theater in Mogadishu today in an attack claimed by al-Shabaab,
the Islamist group linked to al-Qaeda.  The bomber “blended” in with guests at the theater for
the one-year anniversary of Somali National Television, the
 African Union  said in an e-mailed statement. The president of
Somalia’s Olympic Committee and a former deputy speaker of
parliament were among the victims, said Fahmed Ahmed, a
lawmaker. Planning Minister Abdullahi Godah Barre was also
injured, Prime Minister Abdiweli Mohamed Ali told reporters.  “Yet again the terrorists’ methods show that they are
enemies of peace and are foreign to Somali culture,” the
African Union’s acting force commander, Brigadier General Audace
Nduwumunsi, said in the statement. “By their attack they are
trying to derail the hopes and dreams of the Somali people, but
they will fail.”  The theater opened two weeks ago for the first time in 20
years, the African Union said. At least a dozen people were
wounded, including journalists and other lawmakers, Ahmed said.  Al-Shabaab said it carried out the attack, according to
Amirrnuur.com, a website that supports the group.  The group has waged an insurgency against the United
Nations-backed transitional administration of Somali President
Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed since 2007.  It withdrew its forces from Mogadishu in August following
advances by African Union-backed government soldiers and pledged
to carry out guerrilla attacks in the capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hamsa Omar in Mogadishu at 
 ohamsa@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  