-- Record-Breaking Song Ceramic Lifts Sotheby’s Sale
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-04-04T17:31:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/sotheby-s-sets-record-for-song-ceramics-with-26-7-million-sale.html
Sotheby’s (BID)  set a world auction record
for a Song dynasty ceramic as part of its  Hong Kong  Spring sale,
which raised an above-estimate HK$2.46 billion ($316 million).  Chinese buyers are continuing to buy  luxury goods  such as
paintings, jewelry, wine, watches and ceramics, even as economic
growth slows. The five-day event had been estimated by the New
York-based auction house to raise a total of HK$1.9 billion at
hammer prices.  “This was probably the first major indicator of the year,”
said Cheng William Qian, a London-based adviser specializing in
ceramics who bought ceramics from the Ming and Qing dynasties.
“We’re all quite optimistic.”  The record Ruyao bowl, more than nine centuries old, sold
for HK$208 million, equivalent of $26.7 million. Record prices
were also achieved for Vietnamese and Indonesian artists, while
all of the wine lots sold during two days of weekend auctions.  Highlights from the contemporary Asian art sales included
an oil painting by Chinese artist  Zhang Xiaogang  from his 1993
 Bloodline  series that sold for $6.69 million with fees, compared
with a presale high estimate of $4.5 million.  A work by Vietnamese painter Le Pho sold for HK$2.9
million, a record for the artist at auction and the highest paid
for a Vietnamese painting, Sotheby’s said. Records were also set
by contemporary Indonesian artist  Ay Tjoe Christine  and Bandung
school artists  Ahmad Sadali  and  But Mochtar .  Wine Success  Sotheby’s 100 percent success rate in the wine auctions was
a turnaround from last September when some top lots failed to
sell. The  Liv-ex 100 Index of Fine Wines  gained 2.5 percent in
the first two months of this year after falling 21.6 during the
second half of 2011.  Two cases of Romanee-Conti 1988 Domaine de la Romanee-Conti
shared the top price of HK$1.59 million each, compared with a
presale high estimate of HK$1.1 million.  The headline lot from the April 3 jewelry sale was an 8.01
carat emerald-cut blue diamond, flanked by two diamonds together
weighing about one carat and set in a platinum ring that sold
for HK$99.2 million ($12.8 million).  The Ru washer dating from 1086 to 1106, the most expensive
lot sold this week, is considered the pinnacle of Chinese
ceramics, said Sotheby’s Asia deputy chairman Nicolas Chow.  Twice Estimate  Four telephone bidders and two buyers in the room battled
for several minutes before the hammer went down to loud
applause. The victor was an unidentified telephone bidder who
paid more than twice the presale high estimate of HK$80 million.  The previous highest price for a Song ceramic was set by
Sotheby’s in 2008 when a “Guan” Mallet Vase sold for HK$67.5
million.  Ru refers to the kilns located south of the Song Capital,
Kaifeng -- in  Henan province  -- which were commissioned to
produce ceramics for the Imperial court.  “Even in the 12th century there were references to Ru in
literature saying it was impossible to attain Ru works 100 years
after they were made,” Chow said.  Only four other Ru ceramics are privately owned while about
70 pieces are held in museum collections.  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter at large for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 