-- Swiss Stocks Decline on Spanish Bond Sale; Holcim Drops
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-04-04T16:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/swiss-stocks-decline-after-fed-minutes-spanish-bond-sale.html
Swiss stocks  fell by the most in
four weeks as demand declined at a Spanish bond auction and
minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting reduced
expectations for additional monetary stimulus.  Transocean Ltd. dropped 2.3 percent as a Brazilian federal
prosecutor sued the world’s largest operator of offshore
drilling rigs over an oil spill.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the second-biggest
cement maker, retreated 2.7 percent, following a gauge of
European construction companies lower. Banks declined.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of the largest and most
actively traded companies, sank 1.5 percent to 6,166.79 at the
close in Zurich, its biggest drop since March 6. The volume of
shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies was 19 percent
higher than the average over the past 30 days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The broader Swiss Performance Index also
lost 1.5 percent today.  “The worries regarding the crisis in Europe are not
over,” said  Lars Knudsen , who manages about $110 million at LGT
Capital Management AG in Pfaeffikon,  Switzerland . “The Spanish
bond sale results weren’t that great, which is not good for
market confidence. The market is reacting negatively to the
minutes as they see less of a chance for a third round of
quantitative easing.”  The SMI dropped yesterday as orders to U.S. factories
increased less than economists had forecast. The benchmark gauge
has still  gained 3.9 percent  this year as the  European Central
Bank  disbursed more than 1 trillion euros ($1.3 trillion) to the
region’s lenders.  Fed Policy  Fed policy makers said that the improving economy lessened
the need for stimulus even as they stuck to a plan to hold the
benchmark interest rate near zero at least through late 2014.  Officials called for additional stimulus only “if the
economy lost momentum” or if inflation stays below their 2
percent inflation target, according to minutes of their March 13
meeting released yesterday. That contrasted with the minutes of
their January meeting in which some policy makers saw the
economy requiring additional action “before long.”  Swiss stocks extended losses after  Spain  sold 2.6 billion
euros of bonds, near the minimum target, and its borrowing costs
rose in its first auction since announcing that public debt will
surge to a record this year. The nation auctioned 973 million
euros of five-year notes at an average yield of 4.32 percent.
Investors bid for 2.46 times the amount of debt allotted. That
compared with a bid-to-cover ratio of 2.59 at the previous
auction of the securities on March 1.  ECB Rate Decision  The ECB left its  benchmark interest rate  unchanged at a
record low of 1 percent today as policy makers.  “The ECB remains in a wait and see attitude,” Ulrich Wortberg, an analyst at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in
Frankfurt, wrote in e-mailed comments. “The ECB’s view which,
at least in the short-term, sees risk in increased inflation,
leaves no room for further monetary policy easing.”  Transocean fell 2.3 percent to 47.69 Swiss francs. A
Brazilian federal prosecutor sued the company, along with
Chevron Corp., for 20 billion reais ($11 billion) over an  oil
spill  at the Frade field off the nation’s coast. Prosecutors
filed a previous 20 billion-reai lawsuit last year after the
first leak spill at the project -- a 3,000-barrel leak in
November.  Holcim, UBS Drop  Holcim retreated 2.7 percent to 56.30 francs as a gauge of
construction companies was the second-worst performer of 19
industries in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   Geberit AG (GEBN) , Europe’s
biggest maker of toilet-flushing systems, slid 2.4 percent to
186.60 francs.  Sika AG (SIK) , the region’s largest maker of chemicals
used in construction, slipped 4.1 percent to 1,919 francs.  Financial shares also pushed  the SMI  lower, with  UBS AG (UBSN)  and
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Switzerland’s largest lenders , falling
2.7 percent to 12.13 francs and 3.1 percent to 24.70 francs,
respectively. Swiss Re Ltd., the world’s second-biggest
reinsurer, lost 2.8 percent to 56.65 francs.  Meyer Burger Technology AG (MBTN) , the biggest maker of solar-
panel manufacturing equipment, retreated 1.8 percent to 13.55
francs, its lowest price this year, as polysilicon prices
dropped for a fifth week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  