-- Sydney Gets Second A-League Soccer Team Funded by Governing Body
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-04-04T05:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/sydney-gets-second-a-league-soccer-team-funded-by-governing-body.html
Sydney will have a second A-League
soccer team from the 2012-13 season that will be funded by
governing body Football Federation  Australia  for the first two
to three years.  The FFA said the club will be based in the western suburbs
of Australia’s most-populous city, an area which already is home
to four National Rugby League teams and Australian Football
League newcomer Greater Western Sydney Giants.  “It has taken time to get a club into western Sydney,”
FFA Chief Executive Officer Ben Buckley said at a televised news
conference. “But I believe that the time is right and I believe
that the model is right. This is a major strategic investment by
FFA in the future of the game.”  The announcement of the new franchise comes five weeks
after the FFA revoked the license held by Gold Coast United’s
billionaire owner  Clive Palmer . Buckley said a decision on the
Gold Coast’s future will be made “within the next 24 hours,”
adding that the A-League will feature 10 teams next season.  Although the new Sydney club will be owned by the FFA, it
will be run by a separate board and management team that will
have “absolute autonomy” in the hiring of coaches and players
and the club’s brand identity, Buckley said.  “It will run and operate like every other club in the A-
League,” he said. “We will explore a community ownership
model. We think that we can use this club as a benchmark that
others may want to follow in time.”  October Start  FFA will ask local communities to help pick the name,
colors and logo. With the 2012-13 A-League season scheduled to
start in October, Buckley said the team would be up and running
in six months.  “We just didn’t decide to do this in the last 24 hours,”
he said. “We’ve been planning this for some time.”  Former Australia national team goalkeeper Mark Bosnich, who
played for  Manchester United ,  Aston Villa  and Chelsea in  England 
after growing up in western Sydney, said having a professional
club in the area was vital for the growth of soccer in the
country.  “The one area in the whole of Australia, forget New South
Wales, that produces the best footballers, that has the most
support for football, is western Sydney,” Bosnich told Fox
Sports. “You have to have a team in your heartland.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  