-- Syria Presses Attacks After Cease-Fire Pledge, Group Says
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-04-04T17:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/syria-army-extends-attack-after-cease-fire-pledge-group-says.html
Syrian troops pressed on with
attacks on opposition forces after President Bashar al-Assad
agreed to an April 10 cease-fire deadline to end more than a
year of fighting.  Clashes and shelling continued today in Homs, Daraa and
Idlib, Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights, said in a telephone interview. The
group isn’t aware of Syrian tanks and forces withdrawing from
any cities, he said. Government forces conducted raids in the
Damascus suburb of Duma and positioned dozens of armored
personnel carriers in Dael, a town in Daraa province,  Al Arabiya 
television reported on its website today.  Western nations and their Arab allies say they have seen
little sign of restraint from Syrian forces since Assad pledged
to United Nations envoy  Kofi Annan  on April 2 to stop using
heavy weapons on civilians and begin withdrawing from population
centers. Syrian security forces killed 48 people today, Al
Arabiya television reported. At least 58 people died yesterday,
the observatory said, adding to a death toll estimated by the UN
at more than 9,000.  “I have not seen any independent reporting of any
withdrawal; what we have seen, frankly, is intensification of
artillery bombing on major population centers,” U.S. State
Department deputy spokesman Mark Toner said today. “We have yet
to be convinced that they have any intention of complying with
the April 10 deadline.”  ‘Clear as Daylight’  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov today warned Western
and Arab nations against arming Syrian rebels, saying it would
lead to a prolonged conflict, according to Interfax.  Syria ’s
opposition is still counting on foreign involvement in the
conflict, Lavrov said.  “It’s clear as daylight that even if you arm the
opposition to the teeth, it won’t defeat the Syrian army, but
there will simply be a war for many, many years, there will be
mutual destruction,” Lavrov said in Baku,  Azerbaijan , according
to the Russian news service.  Lavrov will meet his Syrian counterpart Walid Al-Muallem in
Moscow on April 10, the Foreign Ministry said today. A
delegation from the Syrian National Coordination Committee will
hold talks in the Russian capital on April 17-18, it said.  Saudi Support  Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal said earlier
this month that the kingdom supports arming the Syrian rebels so
they can defend themselves. He didn’t comment on whether his
country is actively doing so. Abdalsalam Albitar, a member of
the Syrian National Council, said  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar pledged
to help fund rebel fighters.  Russia, along with  China , has blocked efforts by the U.S.
and its European and Arab allies to pass a resolution at the UN
Security Council calling for Assad’s departure. Both countries
have backed Annan’s mission.  A UN team is heading to Damascus to for talks on deploying
unarmed peacekeepers. The planning team, from the UN’s
Department of Peacekeeping Operations, will “discuss the
modalities of the eventual deployment of a UN supervision and
monitoring mission,” UN spokesman Ahmad Fawzi said yesterday in
an e-mail.  After the first group of about six observers, the number
would eventually rise to about 250, provided that the cease-fire
takes effect, according to diplomats in  New York  briefed on the
UN contingency plans who discussed the arrangements on condition
of anonymity. Annan told the  Security Council  on April 2 that
Assad had agreed to halt advances by his troops, stop using
heavy weapons and withdraw forces from population centers by
April 10.  Syria buried 16 security personnel killed in fighting, the
state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  said today. The government
also accused “armed terrorist groups” of killing four women
and “a number of citizens” who were abducted, SANA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  