-- U.K.'s OFT Seeks Private Medical Market Antitrust Probe
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a l l a m
-- 2012-04-04T11:39:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/u-k-s-oft-seeks-private-medical-market-antitrust-probe.html
The U.K.’s private health-care
market warrants closer scrutiny by the  Competition Commission ,
the country’s initial regulator of antitrust issues said
following a review.  Patients and doctors lack easily comparable information on
the quality and costs of private medical services, which may
undermine competition between private providers and the state-
run  National Health Service , the  Office of Fair Trading  said in
a statement today.  There are only a limited number of significant private
health-care providers in the U.K. Some of those providers can
impose price increases or set other conditions if an insurer
plans to open its network to another medical operator, impeding
competition, the London-based OFT said. Some providers pay
physicians to treat patients at a particular facility, which
also limits competition, the regulator said.  “The private health-care market could work better for
patients,” and “there are reasonable grounds for suspecting
that there are features of the market that prevent, restrict or
distort competition,” the OFT said.  Circle Holdings Ltd. (CIRC) , a London-based private-hospital
operating partnership, said in December that it filed an
antitrust complaint in September 2010 regarding ties between
private providers and insurers that prompted the OFT’s study.  New Law  Under a new law, NHS hospitals can increase capacity for
private patients, who pay their own bills or have private
insurance, to 49 percent from 3 percent. The Health and Social
Care Act may also attract more private companies to help local
doctors’ practices manage their new responsibilities as
procurers of services.  The private sector accounted for about 16 percent of U.K.
health-care spending in 2009, according to the  Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development  in Paris.  “The private health-care sector is likely to continue to
be of growing importance to the nation’s population and economy,
and so it is important that the market works well,” OFT Chief
Executive  John Fingleton  said in the statement. “Yet private
patients and their GPs face difficulties selecting private
health-care providers on the basis of quality or value for
money, and this may ultimately result in patients paying higher
prices, or receiving lower quality care.”  The OFT performs initial studies of antitrust questions in
proposed takeovers as well as market-dominance issues. The
 Competition Commission  has the power to block transactions or
order a halt to anti-competitive practices. The U.K. plans to
merge the two regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Hallam in London at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  