-- U.K. House Prices Surge Most in Almost Three Years, Halifax Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-04-04T07:20:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/u-k-house-prices-surge-most-in-almost-three-years-halifax-says.html
U.K.  house prices  rose the most in
almost three years in March, boosted by demand from first-time
buyers before the expiry of a tax holiday on some home
purchases, Halifax said.  Prices (UKHB3MYR)  jumped 2.2 percent from February to an average
163,803 pounds ($260,300), the mortgage unit of  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  said in an e-mailed statement in London today. That’s
the biggest monthly increase since May 2009. From a year
earlier, values were up 0.8 percent.  “Efforts by first-time buyers to beat the expiry of the
stamp duty holiday at the end of March have probably increased
sales in recent months,” Halifax economist  Martin Ellis  said in
the statement. “We continue to expect little overall movement
in prices this year provided that the U.K. economy does not
suffer a pronounced weakening.”  While surveys of manufacturing and construction this week
suggested the U.K. avoided a  recession , consumers are still
getting squeezed by public spending cuts and inflation that is
outpacing wage growth.  Bank of England  officials start their
two-day policy meeting today, and will probably maintain
emergency stimulus for the economy.  In the first quarter, values were 0.1 percent lower
compared with the final three months of 2011, Halifax said. From
a year earlier, prices in the three-month period were down 0.6
percent.  Wage Stagnation  A separate report this week by Hometrack Ltd. showed U.K.
 house prices  rose in March for the first time in 21 months as
buyers rushed to beat the expiration of the property-tax
exemption and prices in London gained.  The stamp-duty holiday on homes costing less than 250,000
pounds was introduced by the previous Labour government in 2010
in an effort to spur the  property market .  David Cameron ’s
Conservative-led government scrapped the concession on the
grounds it had not been as effective as expected.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said last month
he’ll freeze pensioners’ tax allowances and raise a sales levy
on the most expensive homes. He is implementing the biggest
fiscal squeeze since World War II to reduce the  budget deficit .
 Inflation (UKRPCJYR)  was 3.4 percent in February, and an Incomes Data
Services report last week showed U.K. wage growth was 3 percent
in the three months through February.  The Bank of England will probably maintain its  bond-
purchase target  at 325 billion pounds and keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low of 0.5 percent, according to
economists in two Bloomberg News surveys. The central bank
expanded the target by 50 billion pounds in February and those
purchases are due to be completed early next month. The bank
will announce the decision at noon in  London  tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  