-- U.K. March Services Expansion Unexpectedly Quickens: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-04-04T10:45:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/u-k-services-expansion-unexpectedly-accelerated-in-march-2-.html
U.K.  services growth  unexpectedly
accelerated in March, adding to signs the economy avoided a
recession and built momentum heading into the second quarter.  A gauge of services activity based on a survey of
 purchasing managers  rose to 55.3 from 53.8 in February, Markit
Economics said in a report today in London. A separate report
showed services in the  euro area  shrank less than initially
estimated last month.  Reports this week showed expansion in manufacturing and
construction strengthened in March and Markit said the surveys
indicate first-quarter  growth  of as much as 0.5 percent. The
Bank of England will probably hold its target for bond purchases
at 325 billion pounds ($517 billion) tomorrow to support the
recovery, while the  European Central Bank  is today forecast to
keep its benchmark interest rate at a record-low 1 percent.  “This has been a cracking week for U.K. data,” said David Tinsley, chief U.K. economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London .
“There appears to be some solid momentum behind the economy
going into the second quarter.”  The median forecast of 29  economists  in a Bloomberg News
survey was for U.K. services to show a reading of 53.4 in March.  The pound remained lower against the dollar after the
report was published and traded at $1.5873 as of 11:40 a.m. in
London, down 0.3 percent on the day.  New Business  Volumes of new business at service companies increased in
March and there was a net increase in payrolls for a fourth
month, Markit said.  Aviva Plc (AV/) , Britain’s second-biggest insurer
by market value, said March 8 full-year operating profit fell 2
percent to 2.5 billion pounds, beating analysts’ estimates, as
earnings in the U.K. outweighed slower growth in  Europe .  Manufacturing (PMITMUK)  expanded at the fastest pace in 10 months in
March, while construction growth also accelerated, according to
the Markit surveys earlier this week.  “The economy is on the up again,” said  Chris Williamson ,
chief economist at Markit. “However, this is no run-away
recovery. Job creation and inflows of new business continue to
run well below rates generally seen in the years prior to the
financial crisis.”  Also in the U.K.,  house prices  rose the most in almost
three years in March, boosted by demand from first-time buyers
before the expiry of a tax holiday on some home purchases.
Values jumped 2.2 percent from February to an average 163,803
pounds, mortgage lender Halifax said, adding that it expects
“little overall movement” in prices this year.  ‘Major Risks’  The British Chambers of Commerce said yesterday U.K. gross
domestic product probably rose 0.3 percent in the first quarter
after dropping 0.3 percent in the last three months of 2011. The
group called on Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to do
more to boost a “weak” recovery.  “There are still major risks,”  James Knightley , senior
economist at ING Group in London, said in a research note. “In
this environment, the  Bank of England  will remain cautious in
its interpretation of the data and suggests stable policy for
quite some time until things become clearer.”  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee will
probably leave its  asset-purchase target  unchanged and keep the
benchmark interest rate at a record low of 0.5 percent,
according to two Bloomberg News surveys. The bank announces its
decision at noon tomorrow. The U.K. central bank is buying 50
billion pounds of bonds in a round of so-called quantitative
easing scheduled to be completed next month.  Tinsley at BNP said that while some of the recent economic
momentum may fade, “it is doubtful the economy is going to look
weak enough for the MPC to consider more QE in May.”  Euro-Area Data  In the euro area, a  gauge of services  rose to 49.2 in March
from 48.8 in February. While the reading is higher than the
initially estimated 48.7, it still indicates a second month of
contraction. Retail sales in the 17-nation region fell 0.1
percent in March. German factory orders increased less than
economists forecast in February.  The  Institute for Supply Management  will publish its U.S.
 services gauge  for March later today. The index fell to 56.8
from 57.3 in February, according to the median forecast of 68
economists. A separate U.S. report may show that companies added
fewer workers in March than a month earlier. Figures from ADP
Employer Services may show companies hired 206,000 workers,
according to the median estimate of 37 economists. That’s down
from 216,000 more workers in February.  The slower pace of recovery adds to the case for no change
in U.S.  interest rates . Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday
affirmed their plan, first announced in January, to hold
interest rates near zero through late 2014.  The Fed also signaled it is holding off on increasing
monetary accommodation unless the U.S. economic expansion
falters or prices rise at a rate slower than its 2 percent
target, it said in minutes released yesterday of its March 13
meeting.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  