-- U.S. DOE Weekly Petroleum Status Report for March 30 (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-04-04T14:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/u-s-doe-weekly-petroleum-status-report-for-march-30-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
Petroleum Status Report from the U.S. Department of Energy:  U.S. crude oil refinery inputs averaged just under 14.8 million
barrels per day during the week ending March 30, 299 thousand
barrels per day above the previous week’s average. Refineries
operated at 85.7 percent of their operable capacity last week.
Gasoline production increased last week, averaging nearly 9.0
million barrels per day. Distillate fuel production increased
last week, averaging 4.3 million barrels per day.  U.S. crude oil imports averaged nearly 9.8 million barrels per
day last week, up by 505 thousand barrels per day from the
previous week. Over the last four weeks, crude oil imports have
averaged about 9.0 million barrels per day, 59 thousand barrels
per day above the same four-week period last year. Total motor
gasoline imports (including both finished gasoline and gasoline
blending components) last week averaged 885 thousand barrels per
day. Distillate fuel imports averaged 224 thousand barrels per
day last week.  U.S. commercial crude oil inventories (excluding those in the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve) increased by 9.0 million barrels
from the previous week. At 362.4 million barrels, U.S. crude oil
inventories are above the upper limit of the average range for
this time of year. Total motor gasoline inventories decreased by
1.5 million barrels last week and are in the upper limit of the
average range. Both finished gasoline inventories and blending
components inventories decreased last week. Distillate fuel
inventories remained unchanged from last week and are in the
upper limit of the average range for this time of year.
Propane/propylene inventories increased by 1.1 million barrels
last week and are above the upper limit of the average range.
Total commercial petroleum inventories increased by 12.4 million
barrels last week.  Total products supplied over the last four-week period have
averaged about 18.2 million barrels per day, down by 4.7 percent
compared to the similar period last year. Over the last four
weeks, motor gasoline product supplied has averaged nearly 8.6
million barrels per day, down by 3.8 percent from the same
period last year. Distillate fuel product supplied has averaged
just under 3.6 million barrels per day over the last four weeks,
down by 5.0 percent from the same period last year. Jet fuel
product supplied is 4.6 percent lower over the last four weeks
compared to the same four-week period last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Washington at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  