-- JetBlue Pilot to Get Mental Exam After Diverted Flight, Arrest
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-04-05T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/u-s-seeks-mental-exam-of-jetblue-pilot-from-diverted-flight-2-.html
The  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  pilot
whose behavior led to his flight being diverted was ordered to
undergo a psychiatric examination to determine if he’s suffering
from mental illness and not competent to stand trial.  U.S. District Judge Mary Lou Robinson in Amarillo, Texas,
yesterday granted the government’s request for the evaluation of
Clayton Frederick Osbon, 49, at a federal medical facility,
according to a court filing. Prosecutors said an exam is
required to determine if Osbon was “legally insane” at the
time of his offense.  “The examination should determine whether Osbon is
presently suffering from a mental disease or defect rendering
him mentally incompetent to the extent that he is unable to
understand the nature and consequences of the proceedings
against him,” Robinson wrote in her order.  Osbon’s examiner should determine whether he was “unable
to appreciate the nature and quality of the wrongfulness of his
acts,” according to the order. The judge said Osbon’s lawyer,
E. Dean Roper in Amarillo, and prosecutors may provide any
medical reports and “documentary information” to the examiner.  Unusual Circumstances  It’s rare for prosecutors, and not a defense attorney, to
initiate the mental examination, though the circumstances of
Osbon’s case are unusual, said McGregor Scott, a former federal
prosecutor and partner at Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe in
 Sacramento ,  California .  Prosecutors “don’t want to launch down the road of a full
blown prosecution, spending resources and court time if at the
end of that process he’s not guilty by reason of insanity,”
Scott said in a phone interview. In Osbon’s case it’s a
“practical move made on the front-end when confronted with the
reality of the situation.”  Yesterday’s order is good for Osbon for the same reason,
Scott said, and as long as the examiner is a recognized expert
in the field there’s no reason for Roper to object to the
decision, Scott said.  Separately yesterday, U.S. Magistrate Judge Clinton E. Averitte granted Roper’s request to move Osbon’s detention
hearing scheduled for tomorrow to April 9. Roper, who declined
to comment on today’s rulings, asked for the extension to
“arrange for out of state witnesses,” according to his filing.  Flight 191  Osbon was evaluated at Northwest  Texas  Healthcare System
after Flight 191 was diverted to Amarillo on March 27 during a
trip from  New York ’s John F. Kennedy International Airport to
 Las Vegas . He is charged with interfering with a flight crew and
has been held at the Randall County Jail. The U.S. had asked
that Osbon be held without bond until trial.  The co-pilot on the flight locked Osbon out of the cockpit
after he began reciting numbers and talking about “sins in Las
Vegas,” according to court filings. Passengers subdued Osbon as
he banged on the cockpit door, prayed and talked about “Jesus,
Sept. 11, Iraq, Iran and terrorists,” prosecutors said.  If convicted, Osbon could be sentenced to as long as 20
years in prison and fined $250,000, according to U.S. Attorney
Sarah R. Saldana in  Dallas .  Allison Sands, a spokeswoman for Saldana, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment after business hours
yesterday.  The case is U.S. v. Osbon, 2:12-MJ-22, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas (Amarillo).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  