-- U.S. March ISM Non-Manufacturing Report on Business (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-04-04T14:35:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/u-s-march-ism-non-manufacturing-report-on-business-text-.html
Following is the text of U.S.
non-manufacturing conditions from the Institute for
Supply Management.
Economic activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in March
for the 27th
consecutive month, say the nation’s purchasing and supply
executives in the
latest Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business.  The report was issued today by  Anthony Nieves , C.P.M., CFPM,
chair of the
Institute for Supply Management™ Non-Manufacturing Business
Survey Committee.
“The NMI registered 56 percent in March, 1.3 percentage points
lower than the
57.3 percent registered in February, and indicating continued
growth at a
slower rate in the non-manufacturing sector. The Non-
Manufacturing Business
Activity Index registered 58.9 percent, which is 3.7 percentage
points lower
than the 62.6 percent reported in February, reflecting growth
for the 32nd
consecutive month. The New Orders Index decreased by 2.4
percentage points to
58.8 percent, and the Employment Index increased by 1 percentage
point to 56.7
percent, indicating continued growth in employment at a slightly
faster rate.
The Prices Index decreased 4.5 percentage points to 63.9
percent, indicating
prices increased at a slower rate in March when compared to
February.
According to the NMI, 16 non-manufacturing industries reported
growth in
March. Respondents’ comments remain mostly optimistic about
business
conditions. They indicate that increased discretionary spending
reflects the
increased confidence level of businesses and consumers. There is
continued
concern about cost pressures and the instability of fuel
prices.”  INDUSTRY PERFORMANCE  The 16 non-manufacturing industries reporting growth in March --
listed in
order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Management of
Companies &
Support Services; Accommodation & Food Services; Construction;
Other Services;
Wholesale Trade; Finance & Insurance; Information; Public
Administration;
Health Care & Social Assistance; Utilities; Real Estate, Rental
& Leasing;
Retail Trade; Educational Services; Professional, Scientific &
Technical
Services; and Transportation & Warehousing. The two industries
reporting
contraction in March are: Mining; and Agriculture, Forestry,
Fishing &
Hunting.  WHAT RESPONDENTS ARE SAYING …  * “2012 continues ahead of forecasted pace through March.”
(Wholesale Trade)
  * “February was a great month for auto sales -- much better
than expected.  Forecasted sales volumes for the year are being revised
upward.” (Retail  Trade)
  * “Positive year-over-year growth is finally being seen as
customers’  discretionary spend is up, and overall traffic is increasing
as well.  Increased investments in marketing promotions and
advertising during the  past few months have helped improve customer loyalty,
evidenced by longer  stays and increased frequency of visits.” (Arts,
Entertainment &  Recreation)
  * “Companies are seeking professional services to continue
efficiencies  while positioning for growth, when the top line comes back.”  (Professional, Scientific & Technical Services)
  * “We are starting to see the private sector building again;
the money is  starting to flow into construction.” (Construction)
  * “Increasing demand for healthcare services while engaging in
a more  intense effort to reduce costs universally. [We are doing
this] prior to  implementation of healthcare reform, which is expected to
dramatically  reduce revenue by approximately 25 percent.” (Health Care &
Social  Assistance)  COMMODITIES REPORTED UP / DOWN IN PRICE, and IN SHORT SUPPLY  Commodities Up in Price  Airfares (3); Aluminum Products; Copper Products (2); Diesel
Fuel (2); #1
Diesel Fuel (4); #2 Diesel Fuel (5); Food & Beverage; Freight
Charges; Fuel
(3); Fuel Products; Fuel Surcharges; Gasoline (3); #2 Heating
Fuel (2); Lumber
(2); Medical/Surgical Supplies; Pharmaceuticals; Plastic Bags;
Plastic Film
(2); Plastic Products (2); and Urea.  Commodities Down in Price  Natural Gas  (2) is the only commodity reported down in price.  Commodities in Short Supply  Crab (3); and Pharmaceuticals.  Note: The number of consecutive months the commodity is listed
is indicated
after each item.  MARCH 2012 NON-MANUFACTURING INDEX SUMMARIES  NMI  In March, the NMI registered 56 percent, indicating continued
growth in the
non-manufacturing sector for the 27th consecutive month. A
reading above 50
percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector economy is
generally expanding;
below 50 percent indicates the non-manufacturing sector is
generally
contracting.  Business Activity  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Business Activity Index in March
registered 58.9
percent, 3.7 percentage points lower than the 62.6 percent
registered in
February. Thirteen industries reported increased business
activity, and four
industries reported decreased activity for the month of March.
Comments from
respondents include: “Economy seems to be recovering” and
“New/increased sales
booked.”  The industries reporting growth of business activity in March --
listed in
order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Management of
Companies &
Support Services; Accommodation & Food Services; Construction;
Finance &
Insurance; Health Care & Social Assistance; Information; Real
Estate, Rental &
Leasing; Other Services; Wholesale Trade; Public Administration;
Retail Trade;
and Utilities. The industries reporting decreased business
activity in March
are: Mining; Educational Services; Professional, Scientific &
Technical
Services; and Transportation & Warehousing.  New Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing New Orders Index grew in March for the
32nd
consecutive month. The index registered 58.8 percent, a decrease
of 2.4
percentage points from the 61.2 percent reported in February.
Comments from
respondents include: “Improved business activity/more marketing
effort” and
“Market picking up.”  The 14 industries reporting growth of new orders in March --
listed in order --
are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Management of Companies &
Support
Services; Construction; Finance & Insurance; Accommodation &
Food Services;
Information; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Other Services;
Wholesale Trade;
Utilities; Public Administration; Retail Trade; Transportation &
Warehousing;
and Professional, Scientific & Technical Services. The three
industries
reporting contraction of new orders in March are: Mining; Health
Care & Social
Assistance; and Educational Services.  Employment  Employment activity in the non-manufacturing sector grew in
March at a
slightly faster rate, as ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Employment
Index registered
56.7 percent. This reflects an increase of 1 percentage point
when compared to
the 55.7 percent registered in February. Thirteen industries
reported
increased employment, four industries reported decreased
employment, and one
industry reported unchanged employment compared to February.
Comments from
respondents include: “Adding staff to support expansion” and
“Increasing
demand.”  The industries reporting an increase in employment in March --
listed in order
-- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Management of
Companies & Support
Services; Wholesale Trade; Other Services; Accommodation & Food
Services;
Information; Educational Services; Construction; Finance &
Insurance; Public
Administration; Health Care & Social Assistance; Professional,
Scientific &
Technical Services; and Utilities. The industries reporting a
reduction in
employment in March are: Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Mining;
Retail Trade;
and Transportation & Warehousing.  Supplier Deliveries  The Supplier Deliveries Index registered 49.5 percent in March.
This is the
same percentage rate registered in February, indicating that
supplier
deliveries were faster in March for the second consecutive
month. A reading
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries, and below 50
percent indicates
faster deliveries.  The five industries reporting slower deliveries in March are:
Mining; Retail
Trade; Educational Services; Public Administration; and
Wholesale Trade. The
four industries reporting faster supplier deliveries in March
are:
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Finance & Insurance;
Information;
and Utilities. Nine industries reported no change in supplier
deliveries in
March compared to February.  Inventories  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Inventories Index grew in March for the
second
consecutive month. The index registered 54 percent, which is 0.5
percentage
point higher than the 53.5 percent reading that was reported in
February. Of
the total respondents in March, 26 percent indicated they do not
have
inventories or do not measure them. Comments from respondents
include: “We are
trying to keep more stock on key SKUs to meet unforecasted
demand” and
“Increased orders.”  The nine industries reporting an increase in inventories in
March -- listed in
order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Real Estate,
Rental & Leasing;
Construction; Wholesale Trade; Information; Transportation &
Warehousing;
Accommodation & Food Services; Retail Trade; and Utilities. The
three
industries reporting decreases in inventories in March are:
Health Care &
Social Assistance; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; and Finance
& Insurance. Six industries reported no change in Inventories in
March
compared to February.  Prices  Prices paid by non-manufacturing organizations for purchased
materials and
services increased at a slower rate in March. ISM’s Non-
Manufacturing Prices
Index for March registered 63.9 percent, 4.5 percentage points
lower than the
68.4 percent reported in February. In March, the percentage of
respondents
reporting higher prices is 40 percent, the percentage indicating
no change in
prices paid is 58 percent, and 2 percent of the respondents
reported lower
prices.  Sixteen non-manufacturing industries reported an increase in
prices paid
during the month of March, in the following order: Arts,
Entertainment &
Recreation; Utilities; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Educational Services;
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services; Accommodation &
Food Services;
Public Administration; Real Estate, Rental & Leasing; Other
Services; Finance
& Insurance; Health Care & Social Assistance; Mining;
Information;
Transportation & Warehousing; and Construction. No industries
reported a
decrease in prices paid during March.  Backlog of Orders  ISM’s Non-Manufacturing Backlog of Orders Index contracted in
March after one
month of growth. The index registered 49.5 percent, 3.5
percentage points
lower than the 53 percent reported in February. Of the total
respondents in
March, 39 percent indicated they do not measure backlog of
orders.  The five industries reporting an increase in order backlogs in
March are:
Construction; Educational Services; Utilities; Finance &
Insurance; and Public
Administration. The seven industries reporting lower backlog of
orders in
March -- listed in order -- are: Mining; Accommodation & Food
Services; Other
Services; Retail Trade; Professional, Scientific & Technical
Services; Health
Care & Social Assistance; and Wholesale Trade. Six industries
reported no
change in order backlogs for the month of March compared to
February.  New Export Orders  Orders and requests for services and other non-manufacturing
activities to be
provided outside of the  United States  by domestically based
personnel grew in
March for the eighth consecutive month. The New Export Orders
Index for March
registered 52.5 percent, which is 2 percentage points lower than
the 54.5
percent reported in February. Of the total respondents in March,
68 percent
indicated they either do not perform, or do not separately
measure, orders for
work outside of the United States.  The six industries reporting an increase in new export orders in
March --
listed in order -- are: Arts, Entertainment & Recreation;
Agriculture,
Forestry, Fishing & Hunting; Construction; Information; Finance
& Insurance;
and Wholesale Trade. The three industries reporting a decrease
in export
orders in March are: Retail Trade; Accommodation & Food
Services; and
Professional, Scientific & Technical Services.  Imports  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Imports Index grew in March for the
fourth
consecutive month. The index registered 56 percent, which is 4
percentage
points higher than the 52 percent reported in February. Fifty-
eight percent of
respondents reported that they do not use, or do not track, the
use of
imported materials.  The nine industries reporting an increase in the use of imports
in March --
listed in order -- are: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing &
Hunting; Health Care &
Social Assistance; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Other
Services;
Construction; Information; Accommodation & Food Services;
Wholesale Trade; and
Retail Trade. The two industries reporting a decrease in imports
for the month
of March are: Transportation & Warehousing; and Professional,
Scientific &
Technical Services. Seven industries reported no change in
imports for the
month of March compared to February.  Inventory Sentiment  The ISM Non-Manufacturing Inventory Sentiment Index in March
registered 58.5
percent, which is 3 percentage points lower than the 61.5
percent reported in
February. This indicates that respondents believe their
inventories are still
too high at this time. In March, 23 percent of respondents said
their
inventories were too high, 6 percent said their inventories were
too low, and
71 percent said their inventories were about right.  The six industries reporting a feeling that their inventories
are too high in
March -- listed in order -- are: Other Services; Mining; Health
Care & Social
Assistance; Utilities; Finance & Insurance; and Wholesale Trade.
The two
industries reporting that their inventories are too low in March
are: Real
Estate, Rental & Leasing; and Retail Trade. Seven industries
reported no
change in inventory sentiment in March compared to February.  About this Report  The data presented herein is obtained from a survey of non-
manufacturing
supply managers based on information they have collected within
their
respective organizations. ISM makes no representation, other
than that stated
within this release, regarding the individual company data
collection
procedures. Use of the data is in the public domain and should
be compared to
all other economic data sources when used in decision-making.  Data and Method of Presentation  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business^ is based on data
compiled from
purchasing and supply executives nationwide. Membership of the
Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee is diversified by
NAICS, based on
each industry’s contribution to gross domestic product (GDP).
The
Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee responses are
divided into the
following NAICS code categories: Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing
& Hunting;
Mining; Utilities; Construction; Wholesale Trade; Retail Trade;
Transportation
& Warehousing; Information; Finance & Insurance; Real Estate,
Rental &
Leasing; Professional, Scientific & Technical Services;
Management of
Companies & Support Services; Educational Services; Health Care
& Social
Assistance; Arts, Entertainment & Recreation; Accommodation &
Food Services;
Public Administration; and Other Services (services such as
Equipment &
Machinery Repairing; Promoting or Administering Religious
Activities;
Grantmaking; Advocacy; and Providing Dry-Cleaning & Laundry
Services, Personal
Care Services, Death Care Services, Pet Care Services,
Photofinishing
Services, Temporary Parking Services, and Dating Services).  Survey responses reflect the change, if any, in the current
month compared to
the previous month. For each of the indicators measured
(Business Activity,
New Orders, Backlog of Orders, New Export Orders,  Inventory
Change , Inventory
Sentiment, Imports, Prices, Employment and Supplier Deliveries),
this report
shows the percentage reporting each response, and the diffusion
index.
Responses represent raw data and are never changed. Data is
seasonally
adjusted for Business Activity, New Orders, Prices and
Employment. All
seasonal adjustment factors are supplied by the U.S. Department
of Commerce
and are subject annually to relatively minor changes when
conditions warrant
them. The remaining indexes have not indicated significant
seasonality.  The NMI (Non-Manufacturing Index) is a composite index based on
the diffusion
indexes for four of the indicators with equal weights: Business
Activity
(seasonally adjusted), New Orders (seasonally adjusted),
Employment
(seasonally adjusted) and Supplier Deliveries. Diffusion indexes
have the
properties of leading indicators and are convenient summary
measures showing
the prevailing direction of change and the scope of change. An
index reading
above 50 percent indicates that the non-manufacturing economy in
that index is
generally expanding; below 50 percent indicates that it is
generally
declining. Supplier Deliveries is an exception. A Supplier
Deliveries Index
above 50 percent indicates slower deliveries and below 50
percent indicates
faster deliveries.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business^ surveys are sent
out to
Non-Manufacturing Business Survey Committee respondents the
first part of each
month. Respondents are asked to ONLY report on information for
the current
month. ISM receives survey responses throughout most of any
given month, with
the majority of respondents generally waiting until late in the
month to
submit responses in order to give the most accurate picture of
current
business activity. ISM then compiles the reports for release on
the third
business day of the following month.  The industries reporting growth, as indicated in the Non-
Manufacturing ISM
Report On Business^ monthly reports, are listed in the order of
most growth
to least growth. For the industries reporting contraction or
decreases, those
are listed in the order of the highest level of
contraction/decrease to the
least level of contraction/decrease.  The Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business^ is published
monthly by the
 Institute for Supply Management ™, the largest supply management
research and
education organization in the United States. The Institute for
Supply
Management™, established in 1915, is the largest supply
management
organization in the world as well as one of the most respected.
ISM’s mission
is to lead the supply management profession through its
standards of
excellence, research, promotional activities and education.  The full text version of the Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business^ is
posted on ISM’s Web site at www.ism.ws on the third business day
of every
month after 10:10 a.m. (ET).  The next Non-Manufacturing ISM Report On Business^ featuring the
April 2012
data will be released at 10:00 a.m. (ET) on Thursday, May 3,
2012.  SOURCE: Institute for Supply Management    http://www.ism.ws  