-- U.S. to Ease Myanmar Restrictions, Ending Isolation
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   S h a m i m   A d a m
-- 2012-04-05T05:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/u-s-to-ease-investment-restrictions-to-long-isolated-myanmar.html
Myanmar, once the world’s largest
rice exporter, is set to re-engage with the global economy in a
boost to Southeast Asian growth as the U.S. prepares to ease
some sanctions.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday the U.S.
will selectively lift restrictions on investment in Myanmar,
after this month’s elections allowed democracy advocate Aung San Suu Kyi to win a seat in parliament. This week, leaders from the
 Association of Southeast Asian Nations , or Asean, called for the
U.S. and  Europe  to end sanctions.  The opening of Myanmar’s economy, one of  Asia ’s last
untapped frontier markets, may give investors and neighboring
countries access to its mineral wealth and a market of 64
million people after decades of military rule. The nation
bordering China and  India  has won support for its efforts to
attract investment by holding elections and overhauling its
financial system, including a managed float of its currency.  “Myanmar’s opening is the creation of a whole new consumer
market and that cannot be but good for the rest of the region,”
Rodolfo Severino, former secretary general of Asean, said in
 Singapore  today. “There are opportunities for investment, but we
have to see if the measures are sustained. The U.S.’s lifting of
sanctions may be followed by other countries and that is
important.”  American sanctions banned investment in Myanmar and imports
from the country, restrict money transfers, freeze assets and
target jewelry with gemstones originating in the nation. The
European Union bans weapons sales and mineral imports.  Further Reform  By easing some sanctions, lifting some travel bans and
naming an ambassador to the Southeast Asian nation for the first
time since 1988, the U.S. seeks to encourage further reform in
the country, Clinton said yesterday.  Myanmar’s total land area, second only to  Indonesia  in
 Southeast Asia , contains deposits of gold, copper and gemstones.
The nation is positioned between India and China, astride
maritime trade routes between Europe and  East Asia  and was in
British colonial times the world’s largest rice exporter -- a
title now held by neighbor and one-time enemy  Thailand .  France ’s Total SA, Chevron Corp. of the U.S. and  Malaysia ’s
 Petroliam Nasional Bhd (PET) . entered the nation years ago to tap
offshore energy reserves. Even so, large swathes of its waters
sit unexplored, indicating the potential is greater than the
proven gas reserves that the BP Statistical Review estimates to
amount to one-eighth the size of Malaysia’s.  Waiting on Sanctions  Investor  Jim Rogers , the chairman of Rogers Holdings who
predicted a global commodities rally in 1999, said Feb. 22 he’d
put all his money in Myanmar if he could. Standard Chartered Plc,
the U.K. bank that earns more than two-thirds of its profit in
Asia, has said lenders are waiting for sanctions to be lifted
before considering a return.  The Central Bank of Myanmar set a reference foreign
 exchange rate  of 821 kyat per dollar today, according to its
website. It adopted a managed float for its currency on April
1, scrapping a 35-year fixed exchange rate.  Myanmar’s emergence comes as its neighbors grapple with
slowing growth in  China  and the European debt crisis.  A Chinese  services industry index  showed a slower expansion
in March, with the purchasing managers’ index for the sector
easing to 53.3 last month from 53.9 in February, according to a
statement issued by HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics today.
A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  Elsewhere in the region,  Taiwan ’s consumer prices rose 1.32
percent last month from a year earlier, according to the median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey. The Central Bank of  Sri
Lanka  may keep its reverse repurchase rate at 9 percent and the
 repurchase rate  at 7.5 percent today, according to three of five
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  U.S. Jobs  Initial jobless claims in the U.S. probably fell 4,000 in
the week to March 31 to 355,000, according to the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a
report today.  The  Bank of England  is expected to hold its policy interest
rate at a record-low 0.5 percent, according to economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Monetary Policy Committee will
back finishing their 325 billion-pound ($516 billion) stimulus,
economists predict.  U.K. manufacturing output probably rose 0.1 percent in
February from the previous month, while overall industrial
production climbed 0.4 percent, according to Bloomberg surveys.
 Germany ’s industrial production probably decreased 0.5 percent
from January, when it gained 1.6 percent, according to the
median estimate of economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Political Dissidents  The reconsideration of U.S. sanctions against Myanmar comes
as the country’s lawmakers reach out to political dissidents and
lift repressive measures imposed by the former military junta,
creating an opening for Western companies in an economically
 underdeveloped  country.  Bans on investing in Burmese timber and gems probably will
continue, according to two senior administration officials who
briefed reporters on condition of anonymity because they weren’t
authorized to be named.  There will be a “targeted easing” of a U.S. ban on the
export of U.S. financial services “as part of a broader effort
to accelerate economic modernization and political reform,”
Clinton said.  Due to European Union and U.S. sanctions, credit cards are
rarely accepted in Myanmar, an impediment to commerce.  ‘New Era’  The officials declined to put a timeline on the speed with
which the changes would be implemented, saying it will be a
matter of days in some cases and weeks in others. Invitations to
visit the U.S. have been extended to selected Burmese officials,
including Foreign Minister Wunna Maung Lwin, they said.  Suu Kyi, who met with Clinton in December, this week called
for a “new era” after her National League for Democracy
rejoined the political system and claimed victory for 43 of 44
seats it contested in April 1 by-elections. It boycotted a 2010
election won by President Thein Sein’s army-backed party, which
along with the military still controls more than 80 percent of
parliamentary seats.  Still, restrictions on capital flows, lack of a developed
stock exchange, an untested legal environment and rudimentary
infrastructure may give investors reasons for holding off
putting money in the former dictatorship.  Myanmar is “a difficult market” where people don’t have
much disposable income, Luc de Waegh, founder of business-
advisory company West Indochina Ltd. who helped set up British
American Tobacco Plc’s Myanmar operations in 1993, said before
this month’s election. “The future looks very bright, but in the
meantime there isn’t much money there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  