-- U.S. Sues Dragados USA, Judlau Contracting Claiming Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-04-04T20:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/u-s-sues-dragados-usa-judlau-contracting-over-fraud-scheme-1-.html
The U.S. sued  Dragados USA Inc. (0007233D)  and
Judlau Contracting Inc., accusing them of running a fraud scheme
connected to the construction of the $447 million East Side
Access Project, a tunnel linking the Long Island Railroad to
Grand Central Terminal.  Dragados and Judlau falsely claimed they would hire
disadvantaged business as subcontractors on the federally funded
project, government lawyers in the office of  Manhattan  U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara alleged in the civil suit.  The construction project is partially funded with so-called
“New Start” grant money from the Federal Transit
Administration, the U.S. says. The government has funded about
42 percent of the project, according to court papers.  As a condition of receiving the funds, a bidder must
establish that it made a good-faith effort to meet goals for
employing disadvantaged business enterprises, also known as
DBEs, as subcontractors, the government said.  Under the East Side Access project, the winning bidder was
required to hire such businesses to perform at least $22 million
worth of work.  Dragados and Judlau falsely claimed to have paid more than
$17 million of the total $22 million to disadvantaged
businesses, according to the complaint. The U.S. asked for
unspecified damages and penalties.  Dragados Spokesman  John Kelly , a spokesman for Dragados USA, said that company
and Judlau reached an agreement with the U.S. Attorney’s Office
to resolve the lawsuit. There is no record on the public court
docket to reflect such a resolution of the case.  “The issues relating to the DBEs were discovered by
Dragados as part of its internal integrity processes and
procedures,” Kelly said. “This information was then self-
reported by Dragados” to the  Metropolitan Transportation
Authority .  As a result, he said, the government “initiated a civil
investigation with Dragados’s full cooperation.”  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office,
declined to comment on the case.  The case is U.S. v. Dragados/Judlau, 1:12-cv-02563,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  