-- UBS Sees Fixed-Income Pickup as Bank Hones Super-Rich Strategy
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-04-04T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ubs-sees-fixed-income-pickup-as-bank-hones-super-rich-strategy.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  said a unit that helps the
biggest Swiss bank target millionaires reported an increase in
client trading this year as fixed-income sales jumped.  “Fixed income is significantly busier in terms of
transaction volume than last year,” said William Kennedy, the
Zurich-based head of UBS’s Investment Products and Services unit.
“The foreign exchange business also remains robust with client
activity levels at historic highs.”  UBS hopes the two-year-old IPS unit can boost margins at
its private bank as stricter regulation erodes the profitability
of its securities division. UBS Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti , who took over from Oswald Gruebel following a $2.3
billion loss from unauthorized trading in September, is
shrinking the investment bank and rebuilding a wealth business
that lost its No. 1 ranking during the financial crisis.  While the MSCI World Index has gained 9.2 percent this year,
customers are only gradually starting to invest more in stocks,
according to Kennedy, 41, a former head of European equities who
has spent almost 20 years at the bank.  “Everybody went into last year thinking it was going to be
the year of equities,” Kennedy said in an interview at 45
Bahnofstrasse, where he sits alongside other members of UBS’s
executive management. “Everybody got it wrong.”  While risks related to the European debt crisis and  China ’s
economic outlook prompted UBS’s wealthy clients to pull back
from trading in 2011, activity started to “tick up” in
February, said Kennedy.  More Engaged  “Clients are significantly more engaged in the market now
than they were at the end of last year,” said Kennedy, whose
IPS unit distributes research ideas to about 4,200 client
advisers on a conference call every morning.  UBS is building on its relationships with half the world’s
billionaires by using the IPS unit and its Global Family Office
Group to give ultra-rich customers with at least 50 million
Swiss francs ($55.4 million) access to private-equity offerings
and hedge funds run by firms such as  Brevan Howard  and Bluecrest
Capital Management LLP.  “The ultra-high net worth segment provides an opportunity
for UBS to differentiate itself from the pack,” said Christian Stark, an analyst at Credit Agricole Cheuvreux SA in Zurich.
“It’s a market where the barriers to entry are high.”  UBS’s main rivals for the richest private clients are
Credit Suisse Group AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co., according to
Sebastian Dovey, a managing partner at London-based Scorpio
Partnership.  Better Access  People in the “ultra-wealthy space” get better access to
specialists at the firm, said Juerg Steiger, a funds and
products salesman at the IPS unit in Zurich. Dealing with these
clients is a “quasi-institutional business,” he said.  The IPS unit also provides ideas to UBS wealth clients with
as little as 250,000 francs to invest. Stimulating demand for
high-risk funds and initial public offerings may help boost
earnings from customers who have become reluctant to trade in
markets roiled by the European sovereign debt crisis.  Millionaire customers want original investment ideas,
according to Thomas Kunz, a client adviser at UBS, who works
with ultra-rich Greek clients. The flow of ideas from colleagues
elsewhere in UBS is also beneficial, said Rene Gehrig, part of a
Zurich-based team of advisers overseeing about 800 Swiss-
domiciled clients.  Double-Dipping  UBS and other integrated banks can generate revenue from
client-transaction fees for investing and by earning fees,
otherwise paid to a third party, for products developed
internally, according to Chris Wheeler, a London-based analyst
at Mediobanca SpA.  “If the provider of the products is internal, the bank is
effectively ‘double dipping,’” Wheeler said. “This is an
enormously lucrative area for integrated banks. UBS will
probably seek to grow the IPS unit when markets improve to
support this strategy.”  While UBS doesn’t disclose how much profit the 2,000-strong
IPS unit generates, the gross margin, or revenue earned on
assets under management, at the firm’s wealth business rose to
96 basis points in 2011 from 92 basis points in 2010. Margins
fell in the fourth quarter to 91 basis points as transaction-
based fees slumped because of lower client activity. A basis
point is one hundredth of a percentage point.  Clients are still looking for a “sustainable improvement”
in the economic environment before taking on more risks, Chief
Financial Officer Tom Naratil told investors at a March 29
conference in  London . While this year’s rebound in financial
markets is encouraging, costs and economies of scale will remain
key issues for UBS, said Kennedy.  “Overall transaction volumes in the markets are still at
depressed levels” said Kennedy, adding that the IPS unit must
provide the technology, ideas and products to allow advisers to
“deliver” to a large number of customers. “That’s how this
game will be won in the next four or five years.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  