-- Ukraine Plans to Offer Ruble Bonds for Debt Payments Without IMF
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-04-04T14:38:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/ukraine-plans-to-offer-ruble-bonds-for-debt-payments-without-imf.html
Ukraine  plans to sell bonds
denominated in Russian rubles and doesn’t need to restart a
$15.6 billion International Monetary Fund loan to make debt
payments, said an adviser to President  Viktor Yanukovych .  The former Soviet state wants to raise 98 billion hryvnia
($12 billion) this year, two thirds of which will probably be
bought domestically, Iryna Akimova, the first deputy chief of
Yanukovych’s staff, said in an interview yesterday. The  Finance
Ministry  has regularly sold bonds denominated dollars and euros
in the domestic market after delaying a $1.5 billion Eurobond
offering planned for March.  “The government has already made some successful attempts
on the domestic market,” Akimova said in  Washington . “Now
they’re working on  government bonds  denominated in rubles to use
in the Russian market and there are rather good perspectives.”  Ukraine, whose IMF program was frozen last March after the
government refused to raise domestic natural- gas prices  to trim
the  budget deficit , faces 42.27 billion hryvnia in foreign debt
payments in 2012. To bolster state coffers, it is negotiating
with Russia to lower the price it pays for the fuel by a third,
which would cut losses at state energy company NAK Naftogaz.  A rally in Ukraine’s dollar-denominated bonds due in 2021
cut yields 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage point today, to
10.02 percent, compared with 10.49 percent on March 30, which
was the highest in more than two months.  The cost of insuring Ukrainian government debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps was 839 basis
points yesterday, down from a two-month high of 857 on March 30,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by  CME Group Inc. (CME) 
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  ‘Serious, Serious Issue’  Household gas prices are “a serious, serious issue” and
tariffs “should come closer to the market-oriented level,”
Akimova said, predicting some increases toward year-end. “On
what scale, we’ll see.”  Yanukovych’s Party of Regions, which has lost support in
opinion polls, faces parliamentary elections in October.  Ukraine is seeking to pay about $250 per thousand cubic
meters of Russian gas, compared with $416 last quarter, and
wants to boost transit volumes through its pipelines to  Europe 
after its neighbor began rerouting some supplies through the
Nord Stream pipeline and via another link across  Belarus .  In return,  Russia  is seeking a stake in Ukraine’s transit
pipelines. It also wants Yanukovych to sign up to a Customs
Union it created with Belarus and  Kazakhstan . Ukraine has said
joining the union would harm its chances of signing an
Association Agreement, including a free-trade pact, with the
European Union.  ‘Very Politicized’  The policies used by Russia are aimed at applying
“political pressure” on Ukraine, according to Akimova, who
says the country opposes joining the Customs Union. “Energy
issues are always very politicized.”  The economy needs 27 billion cubic meters of gas in 2012,
about half the 52 billion it’s contractually obliged to
purchase, according to Akimova.  “The current gas agreement is unfair both in terms of
price and volumes,” she said.  Ukraine is seeking to roll over a $2 billion loan from
Russian lender  VTB Group (VTBR)  that matures in June, Akimova said,
adding that the nation may seek further financing from other
Russian banks.  Economic growth in Ukraine will probably slow to 3 percent
this year, below a 3.9 percent government forecast, because of
weaker global demand for exports such as steel, said Akimova,
who’s in charge of economic programs and represents Yanukovych
in the Cabinet. Gross domestic product rose 5.2 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  