-- Hungary Sued for Political Interference in Radio Frequency Bids
-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-04-04T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/hungary-sued-for-political-interference-in-radio-frequency-bids.html
Hungary  is being sued for political
interference in awarding radio licenses, renewing doubts over
press freedoms in the nation as the government tries to convince
the European Union that it respects media independence.  The 2009 tender for the frequencies of radio stations
Slager and Danubius were “scandalously flawed” and amounted to
the “expropriation” of investments, according to court papers
filed separately by Indianapolis, Indiana-based Emmis
International Holding B.V., a unit of  Emmis Communications
Corporation (EMMS) , and Bermuda-registered venture capital fund
 Accession Mezzanine Capital LP (PEF3495) , which owned the stations.  “The illegal transfer of the broadcast licenses from
Slager and Danubius to politically favored persons was one of
the first steps in the process of suppressing independent voices
in Hungary,” said Eugene D. Gulland, a lawyer at Covington &
Burling LLP, which represents the plaintiffs at the Washington-
based International Center for Settlement of Investment
Disputes, in an e-mail.  Hungarian Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , who took office in
2010, has come under international criticism for setting up a
media regulator exclusively led by ruling party appointees with
wide-ranging powers that European Commissioner Neelie Kroes has
said may spawn self-censorship. Aid talks with the EU and the
 International Monetary Fund  have been halted over a dispute with
the 27-member bloc over a series of laws passed.  Stalled Talks  The claimants and Hungary appointed arbitrators in the case
on March 26 and the tribunal will hold its first session within
60 days of when the court nominates the president of a three-
member panel of judges, according to the court documents
obtained by Bloomberg from the companies.  Hungary’s then-media regulator, whose decision-making body
was made up of parliamentary party representatives, called a
tender for seven-year radio concessions for two nationwide
commercial radio frequencies in 2009, which coincided with the
run-up to parliamentary elections.  The plaintiffs allege that representatives connected to
Orban’s Fidesz party, then in opposition, and the leadership of
the then-governing Socialist Party, urged investors to “reach
accommodations” with political parties to “have a chance” at
renewing their licenses, which they ultimately lost. The people
named in the court document who responded to inquiries by
Bloomberg denied the claims.  Emmis and Accession allege the tender procedures were
“unlawful” because incumbent licensees weren’t granted a
preference in the tender as guaranteed by Hungarian law. The
winning bidders’ conflict of interest should have disqualified
them from the tender, the plaintiffs said.  ‘Unlawful’ Process  The head of the media authority at the time, Laszlo
Majtenyi, resigned the day after tender results were announced,
saying the body’s decision “seriously violated” the media law
as the winning bidders’ conflict of interest should have led to
their disqualification. The tender process was “unlawful,”
Majtenyi said in a statement posted on the authority’s website.  Hungary’s  Supreme Court  ruled last year that the tender for
Danubius was “illegal” and that the company that won its
frequency, Advenio Zrt., should have been disqualified as it
indirectly operated another radio station and couldn’t divest
itself as required.  The National Development Ministry said in an e-mail that it
never comments on ongoing legal cases.  Accession, which was the owner and operator of Danubius
Radio, said it “received solicitations” from “people
connected to” Fidesz, specifically Tamas Fellegi -- a media
entrepreneur who is now a minister without portfolio in charge
of negotiations on an IMF loan -- and Zsolt Nyerges, a lawyer
and entrepreneur.  Moving to Cabinet  Nyerges and Fellegi, who previously served as the
government’s development minister, jointly set up Advenio, which
emerged as the winner of Danubius’ frequency. Nyerges remains
the majority owner of the business after Fellegi quit when
taking on a Cabinet position.  Accession and Infocenter.hu, in which Fellegi was a co-
owner at the time, held “business negotiations on setting up a
joint company or a consortium,” Fellegi wrote in a Feb. 22 e-
mailed response to questions.  He rejected Accession’s description of the meetings, saying
they were “regular business negotiations” where “no one gave
ultimatums.” Talks foundered after the parties failed to agree
on management control and the recognition of past investments,
Fellegi said.  ‘Overtures’ Received  “I didn’t represent” Fidesz at those meetings, “I
represented my own company,” Fellegi said. Nyerges didn’t
respond to faxes and e-mails sent to his company, Infocenter.hu.  Emmis, which had operated Slager Radio for 12 years prior
to the tender, said it “received overtures” from then-
Socialist Party President Ildiko Lendvai and Laszlo Puch, a
party director at the time, according to the court document.  A single meeting with the representative of Slager Radio
took place at the repeated request of the investors and after
receiving a supporting letter from Senator Richard G. Lugar,
Lendvai wrote in a Feb. 24 e-mail. Lugar represents the U.S.
state of  Indiana , where Emmis has its headquarters.  Lendvai and Slager’s representative discussed the
investor’s concerns that local bidders may outbid the incumbents
or that the media body would favor bids with more political
content, Lendvai wrote. She said she turned down further
requests for meetings and rejected claims that the Socialists
and Fidesz reached a political agreement on the two licenses.  ‘No Talks’  “I held no talks with Fidesz or any other political party
regarding any sort of political deal,” Lendvai wrote.  Puch denied ever meeting the investors or conducting talks
with them, according to a Feb. 25 e-mail response to Bloomberg
questions.  Advenio won the tender by offering to pay 200 million
forint ($907,770) and 55 percent of projected net sales each
year after July 2011. The FM1 consortium, the winner of the
Slager frequency, offered to pay 200 million forint and 50
percent of expected sales, according to court documents.  Both offers were “unfeasible and unrealistic,” the
claimants said in the court documents.  The winners only had to pay the fees they pledged in their
bids for six months, as the regulator cut the fees as of this
year, citing “challenges stemming from the economic crisis”
and “unfair price calculation” which advantaged some groups
over others, the media regulator said in an April 2 e-mail to
Bloomberg News. The regulator declined to disclose the new fees
paid by Advenio and FM1, citing confidentiality agreements.  International Court Aid  Emmis and Accession said in the court filings that they
turned to the international court after several amendments to
the media law “precluded any meaningful remedy” in Hungary.  In another frequency sale which wound up in court,
Klubradio, the country’s largest opposition station, lost its
frequency in a tender in December in a decision that was
criticized by the EU and the U.S. for potentially undermining
media pluralism. It is currently operating with a temporary
license while fighting the decision in the courts.  A Budapest court on March 14 overruled the regulator and
ordered it to start a new procedure after concluding that the
winning bid didn’t comply with tender regulations, according to
an audio file of the ruling posted on Klubradio’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  