-- Murdoch BSkyB Exit Could Presage A Renewed News Corp. Bid
-- B y   G r e g   F a r r e l l ,   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-04-04T09:15:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/murdoch-exit-from-bskyb-could-presage-a-renewed-news-corp-bid.html
James Murdoch’s resignation as
chairman of  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  isn’t simply part
of Rupert Murdoch’s strategy to put the hacking scandal behind
him. It also may give him another shot at acquiring the 60
percent of BSkyB he doesn’t already control.  The resignation, announced yesterday, brings an end to
several months of speculation about the future of Rupert
Murdoch’s 39-year-old son, who probably will be criticized in a
parliamentary report into phone hacking at News International
expected to be issued this month.  It also could serve as a bargaining chip in News Corp.’s
complicated dance with U.K. press regulators. Any pursuit of the
pay-TV company will probably be at least a year away.  “News Corp. would like to revive its bid for BSkyB in due
course,” said Claire Enders of Enders Analysis, a London-based
media consultancy. “It is in the interest of News Corp to have
it appear and come across as a transaction as opposed to a
Murdoch issue.”  A government committee is studying the question of whether
any limits should be placed on media ownership in the U.K.,
while a British regulatory panel, Ofcom, is considering the
question of whether  News Corp. (NWSA)  and James Murdoch should be
considered “fit and proper” to own and manage the pay TV
company.  Prominent Role  James volunteered to step back from his prominent role at
BSkyB and wasn’t pushed, according to three people familiar with
the matter. The decision clarified support for James among the
company’s top managers, these people said.  BSkyB shares fell as much as 10 pence, or 1.5 percent, to
665.50p today. The stock has dropped 19 percent over the past 12
months, cutting its market value to 11.4 billion pounds. News
Corp. offered 700p per share for BSkyB before the government
derailed the purchase.  James’s reduced role at BSkyB will allow him to focus on
the parliamentary report and a probable appearance before a
judge-led inquiry into media ethics in the U.K., two of the
people said.  Rupert Murdoch  is also expected to give evidence
to the inquiry.  Julie Henderson , a spokeswoman for New York-based News
Corp., declined to comment on any speculation about the
company’s interest in BSkyB.  When the phone hacking scandal derailed the BSkyB deal last
July, what was to have been the crowning achievement in Rupert
Murdoch’s media empire slipped through his grasp. But a former
executive said Rupert has never given up on the dream of owning
BSkyB, which he sees as a potent money machine. The executive
asked not to be identified because the matter was confidential.  BSkyB earnings contributed $498 million, or more than 18
percent, of News Corp net income of $2.7 billion in the year
ended June 2011. The company, with more than 10 million clients,
has focused on selling additional products including broadband
and telephone offers, to generate more revenue from its existing
subscribers.  Exclusive Rights  BSkyB has held exclusive rights to Britain’s top soccer
games since 1992. The broadcaster’s subscription-based business
makes it easier to generate secure and rising sales compared
with content reliant on a volatile advertising market.  Owning BSkyB outright would generate as much as $800
million in free  cash flow  annually to News Corp.’s coffers, says
 David Joyce  of Miller Tabak & Co. in New York, providing cash
for further acquisitions.  Strategically, BSkyB would give Murdoch a complete
distribution system that would fit with his television assets.  “The idea of having both content and distribution could be
powerful,” said Joyce, who rates News Corp. a “buy.” “It
would help Murdoch roll out new content on those networks and
get advertising for any new channels.”  Television business accounted for more than 60 percent of
News Corp.’s operating income last year, up from 46 percent in
2007.  The reality, though, is that any News Corp. tie-up with
BSkyB is at least a year or two away. No one envisages any deal
moving forward until the phone hacking scandal is resolved, and
that won’t happen until well into 2013 at the earliest.  Total Control  The executives who work closely with James insisted that
his decision to relinquish the executive chairman title at BSkyB
didn’t presage any immediate renewal of News Corp.’s bid for
total control of the lucrative pay-TV company. Both asked not
to be identified because the matter is confidential.  One of the people familiar with the matter said the long-
range plan at News Corp., after regulatory inquiries and
police investigations had taken their course, would be to build
up the company’s TV assets, which are more profitable than the
company’s newspaper properties. A renewed focus on BSkyB would
fit into that strategy.  Pursuing that strategy would probably entail News Corp.’s
selling its British newspapers, according to two former
executives. Murdoch’s ownership of the U.K.’s highest
circulation paper, The Sun, along with The Times and The Sunday
Times, is likely to remain an obstacle to outright ownership of
BSkyB, which offers  Sky News .  Chase Carey  The former News Corp. executive pointed to Rupert Murdoch’s
designation last August of chief operating officer  Chase Carey 
as his heir apparent as evidence that the sale of the company’s
U.K. newspapers, formerly an unthinkable prospect, might be
possible at some point. Carey has said News Corp. remains
committed to newspapers, and that dailies are part of the
company’s DNA. Carey has also said that unlike his boss, who
inherited his first newspaper from his father, he has no
sentimental attachment to print.  While Murdoch once again demonstrated his commitment to
newspapers by opening The Sun on Sunday in February, seven
months after closing the scandal-ridden News of the World, the
opening of a Sunday tabloid also makes it easier for him to sell
his British newspapers as a complete package.  Meantime, the younger Murdoch’s decision to give up his
position as executive chairman of BSkyB, while retaining a seat
on the board, hasn’t mollified opponents of the company’s
dominant position in U.K. media.  ‘Not Distract Us’  Harriet Harman  of the opposition  Labour Party  said that
“changes at the top of BSkyB should not distract us from the
fundamental, structural problems of media ownership. Murdoch
owns too many newspapers. Never again must we allow any
individual or organization to acquire such a concentration of
power when it comes to media ownership.”  That’s not necessarily an insurmountable problem for
Murdoch, say News Corp. watchers. “In due course, they would
seek to separate out the newspapers into a kind of a trust --
separate ownership or separate structure so that it wouldn’t be
so visible to regulators,” Enders said. “This is the biggest
media company in the world, and it thinks of everything.”  BSkyB Board  For the immediate future, though, Rupert Murdoch still has
a  James Murdoch  problem. According to company insiders, James
kept his seat on the BSkyB board because he has contributed to
the company’s success over the past eight years and because the
criticism against his handling of the phone hacking issue at
News International has nothing to do with the satellite
broadcasting company. That may not be enough for News Corp.’s
growing ranks of adversaries.  “A lot of the criticism of News Corp in Britain has
centered around James Murdoch himself, and in some ways it will
make sense to have him step down,” said Tim Bale, a professor
of political science at the  University of Sussex . “That removes
the most obvious cause of criticism. The fact that he’s still on
the board, I think, will cause a few raised eyebrows because it
looks like it’s a cosmetic move.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Greg Farrell  in  New York  at 
 gregfarrell@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Browning in London at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  