-- Turkey Seeks Jail Terms for Alleged Kurdish Separatists
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-04-04T13:10:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/turkey-seeks-jail-terms-for-alleged-kurdish-separatists.html
Turkish prosecutors are seeking as
many as 119 years in jail for 193 defendants in a trial of
people who allegedly advocated separatism under the urban arm of
the Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK.  The state submitted charges against the Union of
Communities in Kurdistan, or KCK, to a criminal court in
Istanbul yesterday, according to state-run Anatolia news agency.
The government says the KCK is the urban arm of the PKK, which
is listed as a terrorist organization by  Turkey , the U.S. and
the European Union.  Turkey says the group sought to create chaos through
terrorism and force the government to negotiate with the KCK on
the creation of an autonomous Kurdistan. Lawmakers from the pro-
Kurdish Peace and Democracy Party, or BDP, have accused Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  of hampering their efforts to
secure basic rights and end a three-decade PKK insurgency that’s
cost more than 40,000 lives.  The 2,400 indictments followed a three-year probe during
which more than 7,500 people were put under surveillance and
about 4,000 arrested, according to Anatolia and BDP statements.  Among the people charged with leading the KCK are Busra
Ersanli, a BDP member and professor of political science at the
Marmara University in Istanbul, and Ragip Zarakolu, a Turkish
publisher and journalist who has been in and out of prison while
challenging Turkey’s taboos for four decades.  Prosecutors seek as long as 38 1/2 years in prison for
Ersanli and and as many as 15 years for Zarakolu. A total of 189
of the defendants are being tried for terms of 7 1/2 years to
111 years and one may be given a jail sentence of 118 1/2 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  