-- Turkish Generals Tried Over 1980 Coup as Erdogan Curbs Army
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-04-04T15:56:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/turkish-generals-tried-over-1980-coup-as-erdogan-sidelines-army.html
Turkish military commanders who
seized power in a 1980 coup went on trial today charged with
using force to topple the government.  Retired generals Kenan Evren, 94, who led the coup and
subsequently became president, and former  air force  chief Tahsin
Sahinkaya are the defendants in the case in Ankara. An amendment
to the constitution approved in a referendum on Sept. 12, 2010,
the coup’s 30th anniversary, lifted a ban on taking the
perpetrators to court.  The trial shows the success of Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s effort to curtail the power of a military that ousted
four governments in the second half of the 20th century. Erdogan
began his political career in an Islamist party that was banned
as a result of the coup, and came to prominence as mayor of
Istanbul for another party that was pushed out of power by the
army in 1997 and later shut down by courts.  “With the support of the people, we have enacted a
constitutional amendment that allowed the judiciary to fulfill
its duty and start the coup trial process,” Erdogan told
lawmakers from his governing  Justice and Development Party  in
parliament yesterday.  About 500 individuals and organizations, including
nationalists, leftists, former students and the current
government, applied to be party to the trial, saying that they
suffered after the military takeover. The plaintiffs charge that
the coup was illegal and the military junta committed human-
rights abuses in its aftermath.  ‘Mass Torture’  “The 1980 coup derailed democracy and ushered in
restrictions on rights and freedoms still in evidence in  Turkey 
today,” Emma Sinclair-Webb, Turkey researcher at New York-based
Human Rights Watch, said in a  statement  today. “This trial
offers an important opportunity to deliver justice for the gross
human rights violations that followed the coup -- most notably,
mass torture and deaths in custody, which amount to crimes
against humanity under the present Turkish Penal Code.”  Live television showed thousands of demonstrators outside
the courthouse, denouncing the junta of 1980, as well as the
torture and political pressure it applied. More than 500 people
were executed after military tribunals or were killed in jails
after the coup, according to data compiled by NTV news channel.
Political rivals, including communists and conservatives, issued
a joint statement today, calling for justice and expanding the
case beyond the two retired generals.  ‘Show Trial’  “Even though this is a show trial, it is important as it
will provide at least a little bit of consolation to people who
have suffered because of their cause,” Oguzhan Muftuoglu, who
has submitted a request to join the plaintiffs, told NTV in an
interview after leaving the courtroom. “The legacy of Sept. 12,
1980, hasn’t come to an end and that won’t happen with this
trial. That regime will only end when limitations on politics,
unions and other areas of society are forever buried in the
graveyard of history.”  Muftuoglu, a journalist, was one of thousands of suspects
in the trial of the Revolutionary Way movement, which advocated
communism and was declared illegal after the military takeover.  Evren, who said three years ago that he would rather commit
suicide than go on trial for the coup, denies the charges and
won’t attend today’s hearing because he is undergoing treatment
at a military hospital. Sahinkaya also declared he is ill and
won’t attend the trial.  Street Fighting  More than 5,000 people were killed in street fighting
between political factions in the three years before the coup.
After the military takeover, the state put more than 200,000
people on trial for crimes against the country and sought to
execute 7,000, of whom 50 were hanged, according to NTV.
Newspapers were shut for 300 days and more than 30,000 people
fled abroad as political refugees.  “The trial will cause a very important mental shift in
Turkey so that in the future there are no such attempts” to
carry out coups, President  Abdullah Gul  told reporters today.
“We are living a period that should stand as a lesson to our
political history.”  Turkish prosecutors are also pursuing two cases against
current and former military officers for alleged plots to
overthrow Erdogan’s government. More than 200 officers along
with academics and journalists have been jailed in the Ergenekon
and Balyoz, or Sledgehammer, investigations that began in 2007.  Turkey’s main opposition  Republican People’s Party , which
is also party to the 1980 coup trial, accuses the government of
using those cases to pursue witch hunts against its detractors.
Two Republican lawmakers are among those jailed in the probes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  