-- Use Free Markets To Win Over Egypt’s Muslim Brothers
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-04-04T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/use-free-markets-to-win-over-egypt-s-muslim-brothers.html
The  outraged reactions  within and
outside Egypt to the  Muslim Brotherhood ’s recent decision to
contest the presidency are misplaced.  So what that the Islamist group originally said it would
sit out the race? Egypt is supposed to be a democracy now, and
the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice Party has a right to
compete. In fact, as the party that won more votes than any
other in parliamentary elections, securing 47 percent of seats
in the more powerful chamber, it arguably has an obligation to
its supporters to field a candidate.  Although the Obama administration would prefer a smaller
role for the  Brotherhood  in Egyptian politics, it has prudently
not grumbled about the group’s successes and ambitions. Instead,
the administration has used its statements to stress first
principles: the importance of democratic processes, civil
rights, accountability. U.S. diplomats have also reached out to
Brotherhood leaders, whom they shunned before the uprising that
overthrew the Hosni Mubarak regime last year.  Now, with Khairat el-Shater, a millionaire businessman who
served as the Brotherhood’s deputy leader, running in the May
23-24 presidential election, the organization may well command
 Egypt ’s executive branch as well as dominating parliament.  Accordingly, the Obama administration must prepare for the
possibility of Islamist political control of the most populous
Arab country. Sadly, that also means the U.S. should brace for a
further deterioration of ties between Egypt and Israel. Although
openly hostile to Israel, the Muslim Brotherhood has said it
would not abrogate the 1979 peace treaty. The U.S. would
doubtless need to step in to manage potentially explosive
disputes, for instance over increasingly frequent terrorist
infiltrations from Egypt to Israel.  There is a promising basis for U.S.-Egypt cooperation,
however. Any new Egyptian government is going to face pressing
economic problems. Since the political tumult began in February
2011, investment and tourism have plunged, and foreign reserves
have been cut in half, to $15.1 billion. The economy shrank by
0.8 percent last year. On the other hand, the Brotherhood’s
supporters include many of Egypt’s small entrepreneurs, who are
eager for government to address these ills. This provides the
U.S. and other Western countries a chance to make common cause
with the group.  To exploit this opportunity, the U.S. should start by
judging the Islamists of the Brotherhood by their actions rather
than by its worst fears. The organization has radical roots; its
original goal was a state ruled by Islamic law. However, of
late, the group has demonstrated a moderate, pragmatic bent,
similar to that of the Islamist party  Ennahda , which leads
 Tunisia ’s coalition government. It speaks of wanting a
constitutional, democratic and civil state, with Islam playing a
key role.  To encourage this modulated approach, the U.S. and its
allies should invite members of the Brotherhood to important
international forums, such as side meetings of the Group of 8
and Group of 20 summits. Under the oppressive Mubarak regime,
many within the Brotherhood, including Shater, spent years in
jail or were otherwise isolated from the world because of the
underground nature of their political work.  The Brotherhood’s improved familiarity with global
economics might ease parliament’s approval of a long-delayed
$3.2 billion loan from the  International Monetary Fund . The
transitional military government appears to be leaning toward
signing, but the Brotherhood has reservations. Shater argues
that Egyptians should solve their own financial problems, but
such reasoning is bleeding Egypt’s treasury dry. Only the
security of the IMF loan can unlock billions in donations
promised by the Gulf countries and attract the foreign
investment Shater desires.  More broadly, the U.S. needs to rethink its aid to Egypt.
The generous package -- $1.3 billion in military aid and $250
million in economic and political support this year -- dates
back to the 1979 treaty with  Israel . But the largesse and the
imbalance in favor of khaki no longer make sense. Israel faces
no danger from an Egyptian army that needs to be bought off, the
U.S. has a diminished ability and willingness to fund foreign
aid, and Egypt is in the midst of a revolution that has prompted
newly elected parliamentarians to call for an end to U.S.
assistance that they associate with the Mubarak regime.  Still, Egypt could use significant economic support. To
neutralize the taint of aid coming from the U.S., the
administration should bundle at least part of its assistance
with allies, notably in the European Union. This would also
reduce redundancy in the remarkably wide array of aid programs
that benefit Egypt.  Given Egypt’s intense nationalistic sensibilities, support
that makes its private sector more competitive would be the most
welcome. In particular, the State Department’s  Enterprise Funds ,
which make loans to and investments in individual companies,
deserve expansion. So do existing programs that finance
infrastructure projects and  job creation , increase trade within
the Arab world by standardizing such things as tariffs, and
guarantee a percentage of loans that Arab banks make to small
businesses. A critical requirement for all these efforts should
be that they loosen the military’s grip over Egypt’s commercial
enterprises.  The Brotherhood’s merchant members understand well the
benefit of such programs. By building on the shared value of
free enterprise, the U.S. can preserve influence with a future
Egyptian government and help focus the Brotherhood on critical
economic issues that, left unaddressed, will foment turmoil and
extremism.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: The View editors on  the real Mitt Romney  and
austerity  in Spain ;  Ezra Klein  on worrying about  the deficit ;
 Caroline Baum  on  scapegoating oil companies ;  Jonathan Weil  on
 Groupon’s IPO ;  Susan Antilla  on the  JOBS act ; and Rowan Jacobsen
on  atrocities in Myanmar .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 