-- Vale Ore Ship Plunges 36% in Value Before Loading First Cargo
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-04-04T13:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/vale-ore-ship-plunges-36-in-value-before-loading-first-cargo.html
A giant iron-ore ship delivered last
month to  Vale SA (VALE3)  fell 36 percent in value before loading its
first cargo because prices for new dry-bulk commodity vessels
collapsed after the carrier was ordered.  The Vale Malaysia is worth $68.8 million, according to
VesselsValue.com, an online valuation service owned by London-
based shipbroker Seasure Shipping Ltd. Vale has said it  paid 
about $107 million for the ship, the eighth in a fleet of 35 of
the biggest-ever iron-ore carriers that the Rio de Janeiro-based
company plans to build and operate.  A slump in values of dry-bulk ships that were ordered
before returns plunged is getting worse as shipyards lower
contract prices for new vessels, according to Adrian Economakis,
VesselsValue.com’s lead research analyst. New Capesize ships
worth $69.9 million in April 2010 are assessed at $39.9 million
today, the website’s figures show.  “The driving force in the decline in value is the Capesize
market,” Economakis said. “We have a huge number of new
vessels on order and a supply-and-demand imbalance.”  Vale, the world’s largest iron-ore producer, declined to
comment, a spokeswoman said yesterday by e-mail, remaining
unnamed in line with company policy. It’s spending more than $8
billion on 35 of the ships to gain more control over costs to
haul the steelmaking ingredient to  China , the leading importer.  53% Decline  Earnings for Capesizes, the largest dry-bulk ships, slumped
to the lowest level since at least 1999 this quarter after
falling 53 percent in 2011 in terms of the annual average. The
vessels carry about 80 percent of the world’s seaborne iron ore.  Each of the Vale ships, known as Very Large Ore Carriers,
is 362 meters (1,187 feet) long and has a cargo capacity almost
triple that of a conventional Capesize. The first eight ships
built for the company are too big to call at most of the world’s
ports and excluded from the Chinese ports at which they were
designed to unload, Economakis said.  The vessels lacked port-entry permits, Jose Carlos Martins,
Vale’s head of iron ore and strategy, said in November. China,
Vale’s fastest-growing market, tightened entry requirements for
larger ships in January.  Vale paid $133.3 million each for another 12 ore carriers
under construction in China that are now worth $63.7 million
apiece, according to VesselsValue.com data.  The Vale Malaysia arrived in  Singapore  today after
completing sea trials on March 27, vessel-tracking data showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  