-- Venezuela Credit Rating May Be Cut by Fitch on Oil Reliance
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-04-04T16:01:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/venezuela-s-credit-rating-outlook-cut-to-negative-by-fitch.html
Venezuela’s credit rating may be cut
by  Fitch Ratings , which cited higher spending, increased
dependence on oil and the use of off-budget funds in reducing
the outlook for the country to negative from stable.  A jump in government outlays may push the central
government budget deficit to 6.8 percent of gross domestic
product this year and make the South American country more
vulnerable to a slump in commodities, Fitch director  Erich Arispe  said today in a statement. A drop in crude or gold prices
could negatively affect the rating, he wrote.  Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , who is receiving
radiation therapy to treat cancer in Cuba and plans to seek re-
election in October, has diverted at least $80 billion to off-
budget development fund Fonden since it was created in 2005 and
accelerated borrowing in U.S. dollars amid record crude prices.
The 57-year-old also decreed a change to the public finance law
on March 29 that allows him to issue debt beyond the budgeted
amount without seeking congressional approval.  “A markedly expansionary fiscal policy and the transfer of
the country’s oil-windfall to opaque off-budget funds have
weakened  Venezuela ’s external and fiscal credit metrics as well
as increased its dependence on high  oil prices ,” Arispe said in
the statement.  The yield on Venezuela’s 9.25 percent benchmark bonds due
in 2027 rose 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage points, to
10.98 percent today at 11:10 a.m. in Caracas, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price fell 0.99 cent to 87.25
cents on the dollar.  Rating Affirmed  Fitch affirmed it’s B+ credit rating for Venezuela, which
is four levels below investment grade and in line with the
ratings of  Bolivia ,  Ghana ,  Kenya ,  Vietnam  and Zambia.  Fitch also changed its outlook for Venezuelan state oil
company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA  and government-run utility
company Electricidad de Caracas to negative, according to a
separate statement.  PDVSA, as the Caracas-based  oil company  is known, has about
$19.5 billion of dollar bonds outstanding while the state
utility has about $663 million of bonds due in 2014 and 2018,
Fitch said in the statement.  Venezuela depends on oil for 95 percent of export revenue
and about 66.7 percent of its  international reserves  were in
gold at the end of 2011, Fitch said.  Borrowing Costs  While Venezuela’s debt-to-GDP ratio of 25.2 percent is
lower than peers, interest payments are rising as the country
sells more bonds at high borrowing costs, Fitch said. Venezuela
sold $7.2 billion of bonds in 2011.  The extra yield that investors demand to hold Venezuelan
debt instead of  U.S. Treasuries  widened 11 basis points to 943,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.  Recent polls show Chavez maintains a lead on opposition
candidate Henrique Capriles Radonski six months before the Oct.
7 election. Chavez has ruled Venezuela since 1999.  “The risk for political and social instability remains
present due to the high concentration of power in the hands of
the president, weak institutional framework and the high degree
of political polarization in Venezuela,” Fitch wrote. “The
likelihood of a close presidential election and concerns about
President Chavez’s health add further uncertainty to the
political environment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  