-- Vestas, Gamesa Warn of Possible Faults in Older Turbines
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   G e l u   S u l u g i u c
-- 2012-04-04T15:52:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/vestas-gamesa-warn-of-possible-faults-in-older-turbines.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and Gamesa
Corp. Tecnologica SA, two of the four biggest wind turbine
manufacturers, warned clients of possible flaws in a pair of
their older models.  Gamesa told customers of a potential fault in a component
of the G-47 660-kilowatt turbine, a spokeswoman for the Spanish
company said today by phone. Vestas also told clients about a
possible flaw in the “root part” of the blades for the V47
turbine of the same capacity, spokesman Andrew Hilton said.  The companies responded after ING Groep NV analyst Maurice Rosenthal wrote about the letters in a note to investors today.
The component in the Gamesa turbines was designed by Vestas,
Hilton said.  “This component could have faults under certain
circumstances but these are not the result of a manufacturing
defect,” he said in an e-mail. “Rather, this is due to a
combination of wear and tear and design limitations at the time
when the part was designed.”  In  Spain  alone,  Iberdrola SA (IBE) ’s renewables unit has at least
1,000 Gamesa G-47 machines installed, and  Acciona SA (ANA)  more than
500, according to the website of Spain’s wind energy
association. Vestas, based in Aarhus,  Denmark , in the late 1990s
and early 2000s sold at least 1,000 V47 turbines to  NextEra
Energy Inc. (NEE) , including 454 devices at the Stateline Wind Energy
Center on the Oregon-Washington state border.  Hilton said Vestas has been contacting clients since
September 2010 and the “vast majority” of the turbines have
been scanned at no cost to customers. Less than 4 percent of the
4,200 V47 turbines in operation are affected and require
repairs, he said. The turbines are typically 10 to 13 years old,
and most aren’t under warranty, he said.  Vestas, Gamesa Decline  Spokesmen for Iberdrola, Acciona and NextEra didn’t
immediately reply to e-mails and phone calls seeking comment. A
Gamesa spokeswoman declined to estimate any possible costs. She
declined as well to be named in line with company policy.  Vestas shares fell 4.5 percent to a six-week low of 52.50
kroner today in Copenhagen trading. Gamesa declined 3.6 percent
to 2.226 euros in  Madrid , a four-week low.  Gamesa offered clients a program to extend the working life
of the turbines that will offset any costs arising from the
possible fault, the spokeswoman with the Zamudio, Spain-based
manufacturer said.  The flaw will cost customers about 20,000 euros ($26,200)
per faulty component, or 27,000 euros per megawatt of installed
capacity, Rosenthal said. That’s “the equivalent of more than 2
percent of total wind farm capital expenditure at today’s
prices,” he wrote, making an assumption that 30 percent of the
components were affected. “We consider this to be meaningful.”  Gamesa, Vestas Clients  Hilton at Vestas said the cost of repairing the part varies
“considerably,” depending on the number of V47 turbines a
client has and the distance from the company’s repair centers.  Other wind farms deploying the Vestas machines include  New
Zealand ’s biggest, the 161-megawatt  Tararua plant , operated by
TrustPower, which includes 103 V47s, Sacramento Municipal
Utility District’s Solano 1 wind farm, which has 23, and  Egypt ’s
Zafarana wind farm with 117 turbines.  Enel SpA (ENEL)  owns 22 of the
Gamesa devices at its Aldeavieja wind farm in Spain.  Vestas was the top wind turbine manufacturer last year with
12.9 percent of the market, according to Navigant’s BTM  Consult
unit. Gamesa was fourth on the list with 8.2 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  