-- Vodafone Dutch Clients Lose Service After Rotterdam Fire
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-04-04T15:57:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/vodafone-reports-fire-in-rotterdam-network-equipment-site.html
Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , the world’s
largest mobile-phone operator, said clients in the western part
of the Netherlands aren’t receiving service after a fire in a
network center in Rotterdam.  Customers in cities including Rotterdam and The Hague, and
in Kennemerland, a region around Amsterdam, cannot call or be
called, Anniek de Ruijter, a spokeswoman for Vodafone in the
Netherlands, said by phone. About 700 transmission towers are
out of service after the fire broke out this morning at the
Rotterdam site, affecting both mobile and fixed lines, she said.
The fire is now out.  “We deeply regret the inconvenience to our customers and
ensure you that we’re working fully and comprehensively to solve
this problem,” Rob Shuter, chief executive officer of Vodafone
in the Netherlands, said in a video message on the company’s
website.  The 2G network for phone calls, messaging and machine-to-
machine communications, and the 3G network, which supports
mobile Internet, are affected and about a quarter of the client
base face problems, Vodafone said in a statement. The company
expects the 2G network problems will be resolved today.  Potential Solutions  For the 3G network, the problem is more complex, Shuter
said. “There are a number of potential solutions we’re working
on, including cooperation with” competitors Royal KPN NV and
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-Mobile unit.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the largest Dutch financial-services company,
said in a  statement  that clients of its local operations using
Vodafone may experience problems making payments via SMS
messaging and the Internet.  The Dutch Economic Affairs Ministry had trouble with their
network, a spokeswoman said by e-mail and NIBC Holding NV, a
bank whose owners include J.C. Flowers & Co., issued a press
release saying it was experiencing limited availability via
fixed and mobile telephone services.  Nobody was hurt in the fire, as there were no people in the
building when it started, according to Newbury, England-based
Vodafone.  Vodafone’s Dutch mobile-phone market share was about 28
percent last year, compared with 47 percent for  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ,
according to Telecompaper, a phone research company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  