-- Wall Street Salaries Rose in 2011 for Most Workers, Survey Finds
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/wall-street-salaries-rose-in-2011-for-most-workers-survey-finds.html
Most  Wall Street (S5FINL)  employees got
higher salaries in 2011, with the biggest bumps going to those
at boutique banks and alternative asset managers, according to a
survey by eFinancialCareers.com.  The online survey of 2,860 financial professionals found
that 54 percent received salary increases -- excluding bonus --
and 40 percent reported no change from 2010, according to an e-
mailed description of the survey’s findings. Workers at so-
called bulge-bracket banks got an average increase of 3 percent,
compared with a 14 percent gain for people at boutique banks and
a 13 percent raise for those at fund managers.  When year-end bonuses were included, average pay last year
fell for workers at companies including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s investment bank amid declining
revenue. As year-end bonuses dropped, some banks raised base
salaries that in past years contributed just a fraction of pay
for senior employees.  “Historically it’s always been about bonus, and now we’re
seeing that salary is another tool that firms have,” Constance Melrose, managing director of eFinancialCareers  North America ,
said in a phone interview. “The less variable component has
become more important.”  Melrose didn’t identify the survey respondents’ employers.
Bulge-bracket banks include large diversified lenders and
investment banks, and boutique banks are smaller, specialized
advisory firms, she said. Alternative asset managers typically
are hedge funds, Melrose said.  Satisfaction Gauge  The survey, conducted Jan. 2 through Feb. 16, found that 12
percent of respondents were “very satisfied” and 35 percent
were “somewhat satisfied” with their 2011 salaries. Thirty-
seven percent reported being “very dissatisfied” or “somewhat
dissatisfied,” down from 38 percent a year earlier.  While 35 percent of respondents said they plan to change
firms this year, 55 percent said that a higher salary would
persuade them to stay, according to eFinancialCareers, a unit of
New York-based  Dice Holdings Inc. (DHX)   “When you ask ‘What would it take for you to stay?’ the
No. 1 thing is salary,” Melrose said.  A survey released by eFinancialCareers in February found
that more than half of Wall Street employees said their year-end
bonus met or exceeded their expectations.  The latest survey, conducted by e-mail, started with 7,194
people and was pared to 3,819 to exclude certain respondents,
including those who were students or unemployed. Of those who
remained, 2,860 provided salary information, according to
eFinancialCareers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 