-- Williams Says Fed Must Keep Acting Vigorously for Growth
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-04-04T18:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/williams-says-fed-must-keep-acting-vigorously-for-growth.html
Federal Reserve Bank of  San
Francisco  President  John Williams  said the strengthening  U.S.
economy  is reducing the odds that the central bank will need to
add to its record monetary accommodation.  “The probability of needing to do additional stimulus is
lower,” Williams told reporters after delivering a speech in
San Francisco today. “Relative to a few months ago, I think
that the downside risks to the U.S. economy have lessened.”  Fed policy makers last month called for more easing only
“if the economy lost momentum” or if inflation stays below
their 2 percent inflation target, according to minutes of the
Federal Open Market Committee’s March 13 meeting released
yesterday in  Washington . That is in contrast from January when
some members saw the need for additional stimulus “before
long.” Data released since the March meeting have pointed to a
sustained expansion of the world’s largest economy.  Still, another round of asset purchases is “not off the
table,” Williams, a voting member of the policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee  this year, said after speaking to the San
Francisco Planning and Urban Research Association. “If the
economic recovery is slower than I expect or if inflation is
consistently below 2 percent, those would be arguments to push
off further the time of raising rates,” he said.  The FOMC last month voted to maintain the plan to keep
 interest rates  low through at least late 2014 while upgrading
its assessment of the economy. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped 0.4 percent yesterday as the minutes of meeting showed a
decreased urgency for further monetary stimulus.  Stocks Fall  The decline in U.S. stocks continued today as demand
dropped at a Spanish bond auction and  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK) ’s lower
forecast dragged down technology shares. The  S&P 500  slumped 1
percent to 1,399.63 at 2:44 p.m. New York time.  Williams reiterated his forecast for economic growth of 2.5
percent this year and 2.75 percent in 2013. That “moderate”
pace won’t be enough to sustain the “rapid progress” seen in
the job market, he said.  “We remain vigilant now, when the economy is showing real
signs of improvement, sharply focused on our goals of maximum
sustainable employment and price stability,” Williams said in a
speech today, similar to remarks given yesterday in  San Diego .  The  unemployment  rate has fallen to 8.3 percent, the lowest
in three years. The March Labor Department report is due April
6. Joblessness will be around 8 percent at the end of this year
and decline to about 7 percent at the end of 2014, Williams
predicted.  Economy ‘Tad Stronger’  “The economic data have been a tad stronger, not a game
changer in terms of much stronger growth,” Williams told
reporters. Inflation has also been “a tad stronger” and the
risk of  Europe  entering “a deep recession” has lessened, he
said.  Orders to U.S. factories grew in February as demand for
business equipment increased, according to Commerce Department
figures released yesterday.  Consumer spending  also surged the
most in seven months in February while growth in manufacturing
picked up in March, other reports have shown.  Williams, 49, became the president of the San Francisco Fed
in March 2011. His district includes Alaska, Arizona,
California, Hawaii, Idaho, Nevada, Oregon, Utah and Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in San Francisco at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  