-- Women Will Run Banks Before White House, Gillibrand Says
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2012-04-05T04:00:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/women-will-run-wall-street-before-white-house-gillibrand-says.html
A woman will serve as chief
executive officer at one of the five biggest U.S. banks before
the nation gets its first female president, said U.S. Senator
Kirsten Gillibrand.  While no woman is still in the running for president this
year, “there are women at mid-level banks already,” Gillibrand
said in an interview yesterday, referring to KeyCorp CEO Beth Mooney as an example. Gillibrand spoke at a mentoring event at
Radio City Music Hall in  New York  designed to develop and
promote leadership by women in business and politics.  Banks have a small pool of candidates to draw upon if
they’re planning to promote a woman from their own ranks. Only
four women are listed among more than 30 named executive
officers at the six largest U.S. banks --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Morgan Stanley. (MS)  Two of those women
are at New York-based JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. lender.  “It’s a longshot because there are not very many senior
women left in  investment banking ,” said  Jeanne Branthover , a
managing director and head of the global financial services
practice at New York-based Boyden Global Executive Search Ltd.
“How long will it take to hire them, fit them into your
culture, see them succeed and promote them?”  Gillibrand, a 45-year-old Democrat, joined executives from
Citigroup, Delta Air Lines Inc. and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  who participated in the program, which matched
senior employees from  Wall Street  and other industries as
mentors for junior women workers.  Leadership Pipeline  The event, organized by the Partnership for  New York City 
and the Council of Urban Professionals, drew about 100
attendees. They included Bank of New York Mellon Corp. Vice
Chairman Karen Peetz, who said she hopes women will soon lead
the biggest lenders as well as the nation.  “You have to be able to see that there’s a pipeline in
order to imagine that is going to happen, and I think there are
pipelines in both,” Peetz said. “Everybody’s working on it.”
As for the current scarcity of women at top levels, “I don’t
think it’s some sinister plot,” she said.  Mooney, 56, the  KeyCorp (KEY)  executive cited by Gillibrand, last
year became the first female CEO among the 20 largest
independent U.S. banks. The Cleveland-based company ranked as
Ohio’s second-largest lender.  Women account for 18 percent of executive officers in the
finance and insurance industries, according to a 2011 Catalyst
Inc.  census  that analyzed data on females in upper management at
Fortune 500 companies. They held 18 percent of director seats in
the finance and insurance industries, according to Catalyst, a
New York-based non-profit group that expands opportunities for
women and business.  Seats of Power  By contrast, they hold 17 percent of the seats in Congress
-- including 17 of the 100 Senate seats -- and six of the 50
governorships, according to  data  compiled by  Off the Sidelines .
Gillibrand started that program in 2011 to spur women to “make
a difference in their community” by becoming part of decision-
making in government and politics.  Since 1984, when Geraldine Ferraro became the first woman
to run as a vice-presidential candidate for the Democrats, Sarah Palin has been the only other woman whose name has appeared on a
presidential election ticket for the two major parties, serving
as the 2008 Republican vice-presidential nominee.  Peetz, listed as 56 years old in her company’s annual
report, was named 2011’s  most powerful  woman in banking by
 American Banker . She is her company’s first female vice
chairman, overseeing the financial markets and treasury services
group within the world’s largest custody bank. In addition to
serving on BNY Mellon’s executive committee, Peetz is head of
the firm’s Women’s Initiatives Network, described as a global
resource for the professional development and advancement of
women at BNY Mellon with 50 chapters globally.  Help Wanted  “Because we’ve all bought into this concept of diversity
of thought, I think most every Fortune 500 board and executive
group want more diversity,” Peetz said. “We have to start
earlier with getting people to have the requisite skills to sit
at that level.”  Including women as leaders yields better results for
shareholders, according to some academic studies. Companies with
three or more women board members in at least four of five years
outperformed companies without women by 46 percent, according to
a 2011 Catalyst  study  that measured return on equity.  “When women are at the table, they problem-solve
differently, they see risk differently, they see success
differently,” Gillibrand said. “They define a different set of
parameters, which when heard alongside male voices, result in a
better outcome.”  Pay Gap  That doesn’t necessarily translate into better pay for
women. Male chief financial officers at U.S. companies are paid
an average of 16 percent more than their female counterparts of
similar age at companies with comparable market values,
according to a report by New York-based GMI Ratings, a corporate
governance research firm. The study was based on an analysis of
more than 1,900 CFOs.  If women received equal pay in all industries, “we could
raise the GDP by up to 9 percent,” Gillibrand said, referring
to the U.S. gross domestic product. “We need to focus on how do
we create more economic opportunity for women?”  The U.S.  ranks fourth  in the world for the amount of board
seats held by women with 16 percent, according to a March study
by Catalyst. Norway is first with 40 percent, followed by Sweden
and  Finland  with 27 percent and 25 percent.  Countries in  Europe  are adopting quotas to put women in
directors’ seats. Norway started the push in 2002 and reached
its 40 percent mandate.  Spain  set a 40 percent goal in 2007 with
a target year of 2015.  France  in 2011 required 40 percent female
boards by 2016.  “Most boards are thinking about diversity, most executive
teams are thinking about diversity, so the ball is already
rolling,” Peetz said. “There is definitely a momentum that I
haven’t seen before.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 