-- Woods Brings Winning Form Back to Masters Seeking Fifth Victory
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-04-04T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/woods-brings-winning-form-back-to-masters-seeking-fifth-victory.html
While  Tiger Woods  has spent half his
life playing in the  Masters Tournament , it seems like a lifetime
has passed since the last of his four victories.  With seven years having passed since his 2005 win, Woods
has returned to Augusta National Golf Club this year riding
momentum he hasn’t had for several years as he struggled through
personal issues, injuries and a swing change.  A 14-time major tournament winner, Woods said the goal this
week remains the same as it always has been.  “I’m here for the green jacket,” he said in a news
conference yesterday.  Woods is seeking his fifth Masters title and is coming off
a victory two weeks ago at the Arnold Palmer Invitational, a win
that has lifted expectations for the former world No. 1 to
resume his pursuit of  Jack Nicklaus ’s record of 18 majors.  To do so, Woods will have to overcome a field that includes
U.S. Open champion Rory McIlroy, a 22-year-old Northern Irishman;
three-time Masters winner  Phil Mickelson  of the U.S., and
 England ’s  Luke Donald , golf’s No. 1 player.  While there are 96 players entered, Woods’s recent win has
dominated in the lead up to the tournament and caused
discussions of a showdown with McIlroy, who held a four-shot
lead going into the final round of last year’s Masters before
closing with an 8-over 80.  “Everyone wants that kind of rivalry,” Donald said in a
news conference. “Those two garner the most attention right now,
but I think it’s naive to say that there are only two that have
a chance to win. I think there’s a chance for a lot of people to
win this week.”  ‘He Creates Excitement’  McIlroy, who took three weeks off before arriving in
Augusta, is among those welcoming the return of Woods’s winning
ways.  “It’s great for the tournament,” he said in a news
conference. “He creates excitement that no one else in the game
can. A lot of people want to see him make history and it looks
like he’s back on track to maybe going and doing that.”  Woods, 36, is four major titles shy of matching Nicklaus’s
record. His last major win came at the 2008  U.S. Open , where he
defeated  Rocco Mediate  in a playoff before undergoing knee
surgery. A win this week would give Woods 73 U.S. PGA Tour wins,
matching Nicklaus for second on the career list behind  Sam Snead ’s 82.  “I’m looking forward to getting out there,” Woods said.
“I feel like I’m driving the ball much better than I have. I’ve
got some heat behind it and it’s very straight. My iron game is
improving. So everything is headed in the right direction at the
right time.”  Years of Experience  At Augusta, a course he first played as an 18-year-old in
1995, Woods said he will be able to pull from years of
experience when needed, giving him an advantage Masters veterans
before him enjoyed against other players.  “That’s the reason why you see so many older players here
in contention a lot,” Woods said. “They just know how to play
it. I’ve gotten just umpteen amounts of advice from guys who
have played here way more than I have. That’s really helped.”  Being healthy again also has helped Woods, who injured his
knee during last year’s Masters and missed the U.S. and British
opens while recovering. He withdrew from last month’s Cadillac
Championship with an Achilles strain and has spent the past 18
months revamping his swing under coach  Sean Foley .  A New Start  Woods has finished fourth in his past two Masters, playing
under the strain of a sex scandal that led to a divorce and the
loss of corporate sponsors. With his personal life more settled
and his golf game coming back to form, Woods said his 18th
Masters appearance seems like a new start.  “It’s been a few years,” Woods said. “As far as having
the speed and pop in my game, it’s been a very long time.”  Woods’s win two weeks ago broke his 2 1/2-year victory
drought on the  PGA Tour .  “It’s a huge win for him to be successful this week,”
Mickelson said. “He’s obviously been playing well, and to have
won heading in I think gives him a lot of confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta, Georgia at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  