-- Woori Favors Korean State-Run Company Debt on ‘Mild’ Recovery
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2012-04-04T00:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/woori-favors-korean-state-run-company-debt-on-mild-recovery.html
Woori Asset Management Co., a unit
of South  Korea ’s biggest financial services group, favors debt
issued by Korean state-run companies over sovereign and riskier
corporate notes on signs the global economy is recovering.  The yield premium for ten-year AA agency securities over
similar-maturity  government debt  narrowed 16 basis points this
year to 75 basis points on April 2, the least since August 2010,
according to Koscom Corp., which provides financial data from
Korea Exchange Inc. Woori Asset predicts the yield gap may
shrink another 20 basis points in 2012 due to their relative
safety compared with other corporate notes and their yield
advantage over sovereigns.  “With the U.S. and  Europe  both pursuing accommodative
policies, we will continue to see mild recovery in the global
economy supported by increased liquidity,” Kim Kihyun, who
oversees 12.5 trillion won ($11.1 billion) as head of fixed-
income at the company, said in an April 2 interview in Seoul.
“Compared with spreads for other notes, the yield premium for
quasi-sovereign notes with longer-dated maturities has room to
narrow.”  South Korea ’s sovereign yields rose this year as improved
economic data boosted demand for riskier assets such as stocks.
A U.S. index of factory output for March beat economists’
estimates, according to official data released April 2, while a
Chinese purchasing managers’ index reached a one-year high,
according to an April 1 report.  Exit Strategy  The rate on 3.25 percent government bonds due December 2014
increased 27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, to 3.58
percent on April 2, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
rate may advance another 20 basis points this year, although
further gains will be limited as the central bank will probably
keep borrowing costs unchanged in 2012, Kim said.  Bonds issued by Korea Land & Housing Corp. due May 2017
yielded 4.10 percent on April 2, 38 basis points more than
 similar-maturity  government debt, according to prices from Nice
Pricing Services. The gap narrowed 11 basis points this year.  The liquidity for quasi-sovereign securities is good, Kim
said, adding that this would “be positive when we consider an
exit strategy.”  Moody’s Investors Service raised South Korea’s credit-
rating outlook to positive from stable on April 2, citing “very
strong and improving fiscal fundamentals.”  Factory output 
expanded 14.4 percent in February from a year earlier, the most
since August 2010, according to a government report on March 30.
The  Bank of Korea  held the benchmark interest  rate  at 3.25
percent for a ninth month in March.  Woori Asset also plans to start a leveraged exchange-traded
bond fund this year in response to rising demand for asset
diversification, Kim said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  