-- Yahoo Cuts 2,000 Jobs to Reduce Costs in Turnaround Effort
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-04-04T21:11:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/yahoo-cuts-2-000-jobs-to-reduce-costs-in-turnaround-effort-1-.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) , the largest U.S. Web
portal, is eliminating about 2,000 jobs, or 14 percent of its
workforce, to help Chief Executive Officer Scott Thompson cut
costs and accelerate a turnaround effort.  The move will save about $375 million annually, Sunnyvale,
California-based Yahoo said today in a statement. Yahoo, which
had 14,100 full-time employees at the end of last year, expects
to record a pretax expense of $125 million to $145 million --
with the majority coming in the second quarter.  Thompson, who took over as CEO in January, is reorganizing
operations in a bid to increase profit and reverse a sales
slump. Yahoo’s failure to keep pace with  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and
 Google Inc. (GOOG)  in online advertising and social media has led to
management upheaval, including the exits of Chairman Roy Bostock
and co-founder  Jerry Yang , and the ouster of CEO  Carol Bartz .  “Scott’s going to radically transform this company,” said
Benjamin Schachter, an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA Inc.
in New York. More targeted cuts will likely follow, as well as
selective hiring, said Schachter, who has a neutral rating on
the stock.  “Scott Thompson was not the guy to take this job to cut to
the bone and just drive  cash flow  without investing in new
areas,” he said. “He’s there because he saw something in those
assets where he could turn the business around.”  Shares Edge Up  The shares rose less than 1 percent to $15.27 at the close
in  New York . The stock has dropped 5.3 percent this year.  Yahoo’s revenue, excluding sales passed to partner sites,
declined to $1.17 billion in the fourth quarter. Income from
operations in the first quarter will be $105 million to $155
million, Yahoo said, shy of the $184.2 million that analysts had
projected, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Yahoo is
scheduled to announce the results on April 17.  “Today’s actions are an important next step toward a bold,
new Yahoo -- smaller, nimbler, more profitable and better
equipped to innovate as fast as our customers and our industry
require,” Thompson said in a statement. “We are intensifying
our efforts on our core businesses and redeploying resources to
our most urgent priorities.”  Thompson plans to focus on media, communications, data that
can help advertisers tailor marketing to users, and the
technology that supports various core businesses, according to a
letter he sent to employees that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Employee Letter  “Over the last 60 days, we’ve fundamentally re-thought
every part of our business,” he said in the letter. “We will
continue to actively consider all options that allow Yahoo to
put maximum effort where we can succeed.”  The turnaround process will not be quick for Thompson as he
tries to distinguish Yahoo from its competitors, according to
 Gene Munster , an analyst with Piper Jaffray in  Minneapolis . One
option Thompson could consider: buying Hulu LLC, the provider of
premium video content, Munster said.  “I think it’s going to take 5 years, said Munster, who has
an “overweight” rating on Yahoo. “We’re going through a phase
of Yahoo figuring out who they are. I think that’s going to have
a negative impact on total head count.”  Thompson was formerly the president of EBay Inc.’s  PayPal 
unit. There, he helped more than double revenue at the payments
service while boosting the user base to more than 100 million.  Proxy Fight  At Yahoo, he’s grappling with a planned proxy fight by
investor  Third Point  LLC, which owns about 5.8 percent of the
company. The investment firm is trying to get four nominees,
including Third Point CEO  Daniel Loeb , onto Yahoo’s board.  Yahoo added three new independent directors last month,
after failing to reach an agreement with Third Point to put some
of the investor’s picks on the board. Yahoo also added two
directors in February, while announcing that Bostock and three
other members wouldn’t seek re-election.  Third Point faulted Yahoo today for embarking on the job
cuts without having a more complete strategy in place.  While the staff reduction “was unfortunately necessary and
widely expected, Third Point, Yahoo’s largest outside
shareholder, is disappointed that this round of cuts occurred
before CEO  Scott Thompson  has articulated his strategic plan for
the company,” Third Point said in a statement. “Shareholders
deserve a management team and board who have a vision and
strategic plan.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  