-- Tyrannosaurus Rex Had Fuzzy-Feathered Cousin in Northeast China
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-04-04T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/tyrannosaurus-rex-had-fuzzy-feathered-cousin-in-northeast-china.html
Tyrannosaurus rex had a gigantic
feathered cousin that roamed northeastern China 125 million
years ago, according to researchers who unearthed three
skeletons of a new species, the first of their size with plumes.  The findings represent the largest feathered creature
living or extinct, according to a report in the journal  Nature .
The biggest of three, called Yutyrannus huali, or “beautiful
feathered tyrant,” weighed more than 3,000 pounds (1,400
kilograms) the scientists said, or 40 times the size of other
plumed dinosaurs.  Yutyrannus huali probably had feathers for warmth, because
it lived during a part of the Cretaceous period when
temperatures were likely cooler than the later time T. Rex
lived, according to the report.  “The feathers of Yutyrannus were simple filaments,” Xu
Xing, a professor at Beijing’s  Institute  of Vertebrate
Paleontology and Paleoanthropology, and the lead author of
article, said in a statement. “They were more like the fuzzy
down of a modern baby chick than the stiff plumes of an adult
bird.”  The discovery has implications for “feather evolution,”
the researchers wrote, which also could have been used for show,
instead of warmth.  “Yutyrannus dramatically increases the size range of
dinosaurs for which we have definite evidence of feathers,” Xu
said in a statement. “It’s possible that feathers were much
more widespread, at least among the meat-eating dinosaurs, than
most scientists would have guessed even a few years ago.”  The T. rex, one of the biggest dinosaurs that existed,
lived during the warmer conditions of the Late Cretaceous,
before becoming extinct 65 million years ago, according to the
National Geographic  website . It likely had scales, as indicated
from preserved skin found from the animal’s remains, the
researchers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  