-- Yum Beats Baidu as China Bet on Chicken Allure: Riskless Return
-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2012-04-04T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/yum-beats-baidu-as-china-bet-on-chicken-allure-riskless-return.html
Fiona Yao, a 32-year-old accountant,
passed up a bowl of steaming noodle soup in favor of spicy
chicken wings and a burger for lunch from a Kentucky Fried
Chicken outlet in a Shanghai shopping mall.  “I almost don’t take KFC as a foreign brand,” said Yao
who paid 30 yuan ($4.80) for her meal at the SuperBrand mall.
“The Chinese love to eat chicken and everyone can afford it.”  Chinese consumers like Yao are one reason that  Yum! Brands
Inc. (YUM) , KFC’s parent, provided the best risk-adjusted return in
the past year among 113 companies that are either based in  China 
or get at least 25 percent of their revenue from there, the
BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING shows.  Yum (YUM)  gained 1.63 percent
after adjusting for volatility, followed by  Mead Johnson
Nutrition Co. (MJN) , a Glenview, Illinois-based maker of infant
formula, which returned 1.58 percent.  The U.S. consumer companies topped the ranking after
China’s emerging middle class turned to western food products as
a sign of growing wealth and as safety concerns tarnish some
local competitors. While a Hong Kong-based casino venture had
the highest total return, multinational companies such as Yum!
and Mead Johnson are less volatile because they’re more
diversified and viewed as less susceptible to changes in the
local economy and  interest rates .  ‘Safe Play’  “They’re able to tap into China as an additional source of
growth at the minimum risk,” said Jeff Papp, a senior analyst
in Lisle,  Illinois  at Oberweis Asset Management Inc. which
manages $700 million including Chinese stocks, though not Yum or
Mead. “They have a very strong foreign brand and at the same
time they don’t get 100 percent of their revenue from China,
just the growth part of it. Perception is that it’s a safe way
to play China.”  The Bloomberg ranking included 19 U.S. companies that earn
at least a quarter of their annual revenue in China, the 54
 most-traded  Chinese companies with shares listed in the U.S.,
and  40 mainland Chinese firms  traded in  Hong Kong .  Shares of Yum!, based in Louisville Kentucky, returned 40
percent in the year through March 30, five times the advance of
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index. (SPX)  Spun off from PepsiCo Inc. in
1997, Yum, which also owns  Pizza Hut  and Taco Bell, boosted net
income excluding certain items by 62 percent over the past five
years as the portion of its  revenue  derived from China more than
tripled.  Yum’s volatility, a measure of price swings, came in at 25
over the past year, the second-lowest after  China Mobile Ltd. (941) ,
the world’s biggest phone company by subscribers. The 10 most
volatile companies in the ranking were all based in China.  KFC Near Tiananmen  PepsiCo acquired the then Kentucky Fried Chicken Corp. in
1986, 22 years after it was sold by entrepreneur Harland Sanders, known as the colonel, for $2 million to private
investors. Sanders’ image still adorns restaurants and
packaging.  Mead Johnson, the world’s largest standalone baby formula
manufacturer, has a volatility of 27, the third-lowest. The
company got more than 29 percent of revenue from China in 2011,
and profit has climbed 28 percent since 2006.  Yum and Mead Johnson were the only companies that stayed in
the top 10 for volatility-adjusted returns over three years. The
risk-adjusted return is calculated by dividing total return by
volatility and isn’t annualized.  Since opening its first KFC outlet 25 years ago near
Beijing’s Tiananmen Square, home to Mao Zedong’s mausoleum, Yum
has become the most popular western restaurant company in China.  Outpacing McDonald’s  The company added a new KFC or Pizza Hut restaurant every
14 hours in the world’s fastest-growing major economy last year,
extending its reach to 4,500 locations, more than double the
number of  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the world’s largest restaurant
company, according to company filings.  Yum stock has surged 174 percent, including dividends,
since March 2009 as 51 percent growth in Chinese revenue offset
declines at its U.S. business. While Yum’s same-store sales fell
1 percent in the U.S. last year, they grew 19 percent in China
and 3 percent at other offshore locations, according to the
company’s filing.  The company has said it plans to open 600 new restaurants
in China this year. Yum has 18,000 KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell
outlets in the U.S., the company said in its annual report.  Bacon and Mushroom  “We have a long runway for growth in China and other
 emerging markets ,” Steve Schmitt, director of investor
relations at Yum, said by e-mail. “With more than half of our
operating profit coming from China and 72 other emerging
countries, Yum! Brands growth story is about China and a whole
lot more.”  The company’s recipe for success has been to adapt menus to
local tastes, offering Chinese staples like bacon and mushroom
rice and egg tarts at KFC and upgrading Pizza Hut from the
delivery outlet known in the west to a sit-down dining
restaurant that sells wine, according to Sara Senatore, a senior
research analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co in  New York , who
expects Yum shares -- currently trading at $70.71 -- to climb
another 10 percent to $78 in 12 months.  Oak Brook, Illinois-based McDonald’s Corp. has less than
half of the stores that Yum has in China, where it offers
predominantly the same burger-driven menu found in its U.S.
outlets. McDonald’s got 40 percent of its 2011 revenue from
 Europe , 32 percent from the U.S. and 22 percent from the Asia
Pacific region,  Middle East  and Africa, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Focus on Consumption  Companies like Yum and Mead Johnson will continue to rally
as they push their products into smaller, expanding Chinese
cities, according to Sanford’s Senatore and Michael Broudo,
managing director of Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  While China’s government has cut its economic growth target
to the lowest since 2004 this year, and the European debt crisis
and lackluster U.S. recovery are curbing demand for goods from
the world’s largest exporter, Yum and Mead Johnson will benefit
as the nation shifts its growth focus to internal consumption,
according to Paul Dietrich, director of global research at
Washington Wealth Management LLC, a Middleburg, Virginia-based
financial adviser.  China’s middle class will double to 600 million over the
next decade, Yum’s Chief Executive Officer David Novak told
analysts during a conference call in February. The baby food
market in China may increase to $20 billion by 2015, from $9.8
billion last year, accounting for one third of the world’s
total, according to estimates by research firm Euromonitor
International Plc.  Food Scandals  Mead Johnson, whose Enfa brands of pediatric nutrition
accounted for 79 percent of 2010 revenue, returned 219 percent
over the past three years as sales in China more than doubled to
$1.1 billion. China became the company’s biggest market last
year.  The largest milk formula provider in the country, Mead
Johnson had a 12 percent share of the market in 2010 compared
with Paris-based  Danone (BN)  SA’s 10 percent, according to London-
based Euromonitor. This leading position allowed the company to
boost market share as domestic players dwindled in the wake of
food-safety scandals that pushed Chinese parents to foreign
formula brands, said Ildiko Szalai, an analyst at Euromonitor in
 London .  Regulators found toxins in December in milk products of
 China Mengniu Dairy Co. (CIADF) , the country’s largest milk producer.
The discovery added to safety concerns already elevated after an
illegal additive was found in pork products sold by Shuanghui
Group, China’s biggest hog processor, in March last year. Infant
formula tainted with the plastics chemical melamine in 2008
killed at least six babies and sickened about 300,000 throughout
China.  Most Expensive  “Strong brand equity is very important in China because of
the product safety issues,” said Szalai.  Gains in market share drove 75 percent of Mead Johnson’s 40
percent revenue increase in China last year, Chief Financial
Officer Peter Leemputte said on a conference call with analysts
on Jan. 26. The company expects “mid-teen growth” in 2012,
Chris Perille, a company spokesman, said by e-mail.  The advance in  Yum’s stock  has made it the most expensive
relative to earnings in four years. The company trades at 22
times estimated net income, compared with an average valuation
of 14 times for S&P 500 companies. Mead Johnson’s  valuation  is
27 times earnings estimates, near the highest premium since
September over stocks listed in the  MSCI China Consumer Staples
Index (MXCN0CS) , which has an average ratio of 22.  Bolstering Growth  “Investors need to be careful taking stocks that have
already performed very well,” said  Christopher Palmer , who
helps manage $2.5 billion of assets as director of global
emerging markets for Henderson Global Investors Ltd. in London
and doesn’t hold Yum or Mead Johnson stock. “They are managing
their growth very well, but that doesn’t necessarily mean that
will be the case going forward.”  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (6883) , a Hong Kong-based casino
venture between billionaires Lawrence Ho and  James Packer , had
the highest absolute return of the 114 companies tracked by
Bloomberg over the past year, gaining 78 percent. With a
volatility level of 71, it had a risk-adjusted return of 1.1
percent, the third-highest and equal with China Mobile.  The People’s Bank of China is moving its focus from
containing inflation back to bolstering growth after the
nation’s economy, the world’s second largest, expanded the least
for ten quarters in the last three months of 2011. Banks’
reserve ratios have been cut twice since November as policy
makers work to free up lending.  ‘Tastes of the Chinese’  Multinational companies active in China are less touched by
shifts in the nation’s monetary policy than local firms, a big
factor in their reduced stock volatility, said Washington
Wealth’sDietrich.  While  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , owner of the biggest search engine in
China, surged 743 percent in U.S. trading over the past three
years, the stock’s volatility level of 45 is more than double
that of Yum and Mead Johnson. Baidu’s risk-adjusted return was
0.1 percent for the past year.  Back at the KFC outlet at  Shanghai ’s SuperBrand mall,
accountant Yao sits by young people feasting on mushroom rice
and chicken burgers. Twice as many people queued at the KFC as
at the “Real Kungfu” soup shop next door, which also sells
Chinese-style pork ribs with herbal broth for about 20 yuan.  “KFC is more catering to the tastes of the Chinese than
McDonald’s,” Yao said. “That’s why KFC is so successful.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  