-- Zetsche Winds Down Daimler CEO Term With Assault on BMW
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-04-04T09:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-04-04/zetsche-rouses-daimler-for-assault-on-bmw-as-term-winds-down.html
Daimler AG (DAI)  Chief Executive Officer
 Dieter Zetsche  vowed to beat  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  in
luxury-car sales by 2020 with a slate of new Mercedes-Benz
models aimed at reversing the carmaker’s slide in market share.  “We aim to be the front-runner wherever we compete on a
permanent basis,” Zetsche said today in a speech to
shareholders at the company’s annual meeting in Berlin.
“Wherever we are not number one, we will strive to become it.”  The gathering marks the last opportunity for Zetsche to
sell his strategy to shareholders before his contract comes up
for renewal. The 58-year-old executive, who heads the car
division in addition to his job as CEO of the German automaker,
is rolling out models like the entry-level Mercedes A-Class
hatchback and new variants of the S-Class flagship in a bid to
reclaim the luxury-car lead that Daimler lost in 2005.  The new vehicles are aimed at boosting sales growth, which
averaged 1.4 percent over the past 10 years compared with 6
percent at BMW and 7.4 percent at  Volkswagen AG (VOW3) ’s Audi,
according to data from IHS Automotive. The sluggish expansion
caused Mercedes’s share of the high-end car segment to slump to
21.4 percent last year from 25 percent in 2001.  ‘Lost Decade’  “One can justifiably speak of a lost decade for Daimler,”
Ingo Speich, a Frankfurt-based  fund manager  with Union
Investment, said in a speech at the meeting. “The once smaller
competitors have overtaken Daimler and are making life for the
one-time top dog difficult.”  Daimler stuck to its goal to increase sales and match
2011’s record earnings before interest and taxes of 9 billion
euros this year, Zetsche said today, adding that 2012 will be a
“transitional year” for the company.  Daimler’s shares fell as much as 1.22 euros, or 2.7
percent, to 44.55 euros and were down 2.1 percent at 11:13 a.m.
in Frankfurt trading. The stock has gained 31 percent this year
valuing the company at 47.6 billion euros ($62.7 billion).  “Zetsche has identified the weaknesses and is heading in
the right direction, but the competitors are ambitious too,”
said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of Automotive
Management at the University of Applied Sciences in  Bergisch
Gladbach ,  Germany . “It will be difficult for Mercedes to catch
up. A successful launch of the A-Class will be a litmus test for
the strategy.”  Record First Quarter  In the first quarter, Mercedes posted record deliveries and
is targeting growth of more than 4 percent for the full year to
beat last year’s all-time high. Truck sales rose 20 percent to
107,000 vehicles in the first quarter as demand in  North America 
more than offset declines in  Europe  and  Latin America , Zetsche
said today.  Mercedes plans to roll out the youth-oriented A-Class in
September to compete with BMW’s 1-Series and Audi’s A3 and
attract new customers to the brand. The sporty hatchback is one
of at least five new small cars, including the four-door CLA
coupe and a compact sport-utility vehicle, which will be based
on the same technology to lower costs.  Daimler’s car unit intends to lift its operating profit
 margin  to at least 10 percent of sales in 2013 from 9 percent
last year. First-quarter deliveries rose 12 percent to 340,900
vehicles, boosted by orders for the van-like B-Class, the first
new Mercedes compact, the company said yesterday. Every third B-
Class buyer is new to the brand, Zetsche said today, adding that
50 percent of sales of the A-Class hatchback should be to new
customers.  Sales Target  The entry-level offerings will be balanced by the CLS
Shooting Brake, a wagon-like variant of the $71,300 four-door
luxury coupe, and three new derivatives of the S-Class executive
sedan, which will be overhauled next year. The new models are
part of a plan to sell at least 1.6 million Mercedes cars by
2015.  Zetsche took charge of the Mercedes car division in
September 2005 and three months later became group CEO. His
current contract expires at the end of 2013. Daimler’s
supervisory board historically decides on extensions to
 executive appointments  in the final year of their term.  Since Zetsche took control in 2006, shares of the
Stuttgart-based company, which also makes Freightliner trucks in
the U.S. and Fuso vehicles in  Asia , have risen 3 percent
compared with BMW’s 78 percent surge.  Maybach Shutdown  Zetsche succeeded Juergen Schrempp, who left following the
unraveling of efforts to create a global auto giant with car and
truck units in Europe, the U.S. and Asia. The current Daimler
CEO, identified by his walrus moustache and round glasses, led
Daimler’s Chrysler unit from 2000 to 2005, introducing models
such as the PT Cruiser and 300 in an effort to turn around the
U.S. automaker.  After returning to Stuttgart, Zetsche initiated Chrysler’s
disposal in April 2007 and completed the separation in April
2009, shortly before the  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based
automaker’s bankruptcy.  Last year, Zetsche decided to wind down the ultra-luxury
Maybach brand, which sold vehicles costing more than $350,000,
to focus on the S-Class line. The 1930s era marque was
reintroduced in 2002 to rival BMW’s Rolls-Royce and Volkswagen’s
Bentley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  