-- 
La Nina May Fade by June, Long-Range 2011 Outlook Still Unclear

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-07T13:43:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/la-nina-may-fade-by-june-long-range-2011-outlook-still-unclear.html
La Nina, a cooling in the  Pacific
Ocean , weakened for the third straight month, leading U.S.
forecasters to believe it will be gone by June, the  Climate
Prediction Center  reported.  La Nina will continue to bring warmer and drier air to the
U.S. South and cooler conditions in the North until it fades
completely, according to the center in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland .
The cycle of warming and cooling in the Pacific is referred to
as the El Nino-Southern Oscillation, or ENSO.  “Nearly all ENSO models predict La Nina to continue
weakening in the coming months, and the majority of the models
indicate a return to ENSO-neutral conditions by June 2011,”
according to a statement released by the center. “The forecasts
for the late summer and beyond are highly uncertain.”  On average, La Nina occurs every three to five years and
lasts nine to 12 months, sometimes persisting as long as two
years. The phenomenon has been blamed for enhancing hurricane
development in the Atlantic by limiting wind shear there that
can tear budding storms apart.  There is a chance that an El Nino, a warming of the
Pacific, may form by the end of the year or that the La Nina may
return. An El Nino can actually inhibit hurricanes in the
Atlantic by increasing wind shear there.  Yesterday, researchers at  Colorado State University  lowered
their seasonal Atlantic storm forecast to 16 named storms from
17 because of the fading La Nina. However, 16 storms with winds
of at least 39 miles per hour (63 kilometers per hour) are still
above the 11 that appear in an average season.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 Bsullivan10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net . 