-- 
Acer Creates Windows PC for IPad Generation: Rich Jaroslovsky

-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 
2011-04-07T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/acer-creates-windows-pc-for-ipad-generation-rich-jaroslovsky.html
You’ve never seen a personal
computer quite like this one.  Acer Inc. (2353) ’s new Iconia 6120 Touchbook has many of the
features you would expect from a full-sized laptop: an  Intel
Corp. (INTC)  i5 microprocessor,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows 7 operating
system, a 14-inch display.  It’s also missing one feature you would expect: a keyboard.
In its place is a second 14-inch touch screen. Need to type
something? A full-sized virtual keyboard, complete with
touchpad, appears on the bottom display when you lay your palms
on it, to be used and then dismissed when no longer required.  Think of the Iconia Touchbook as a Windows PC for the iPad
generation, for whom having to type on glass is a feature and
not a flaw.  The dual-screen approach isn’t original with Acer;  Toshiba
Corp. (6502)  did something similar with its Libretto last year. The
Libretto, though, was a limited-edition concept PC with much
smaller screens than those on the Acer. While the Iconia lacks a
DVD or CD drive, it’s otherwise the antithesis of an under-
equipped, lightweight netbook.  The computer, which is  available for order  now and shows up
in stores later this month, costs $1,199.99. It weighs a hefty
6.2 pounds, and comes with 4 gigabytes of memory and a 640-
gigabyte hard drive standard. It also has a webcam, high-
definition video and audio connections and three USB ports, one
of them the new, ultra-fast USB 3.0.  A Choice of Control  The  Iconia ’s upper screen, like the lower one, is touch-
enabled, giving you the choice of controlling your Windows
applications from the virtual touchpad on the bottom screen, or
directly with your finger, similar to Apple’s iPad. If you’re in
direct-control mode, you can drag windows from one screen to the
other, or even expand them to fill both.  A number of the computer’s functions and settings can be
accessed via the Acer Ring, a sort of virtual dial you can
summon on the lower screen. Here you’ll find controls for video,
photo and music applications as well as the Gesture Editor,
which lets you design your own set of taps and swipes to start
programs or perform other tasks.  Typing on the glass takes some getting used to, though it
wasn’t nearly as difficult as I had expected. I could adjust the
size of the function keys, and by angling the screen was able to
find comfortable typing positions in a variety of situations. My
biggest problem wasn’t with the keyboard but with the trackpad,
which is so small that my finger kept sliding past its virtual
edges.  Keys and Clicks  While there’s no tactile feedback when you land on a
virtual key, as there is on some smartphones, you can hear an
audible “click.” It’s a nice idea, except that there is a
noticeable lag between hitting the key and hearing the sound.  Other features designed to make things easier fall short as
well. While you can enter text with your finger or a stylus via
a handwriting-recognition window, the process is laborious. And
 Nuance Communications Inc. (NUAN) ’s included predictive-text software,
which came enabled by default, annoyingly kept trying to
“correct” the spelling of my passwords and the capitalization
of words I wanted to be uppercase. I quickly turned it off.  Power Drain  The biggest drawback is the battery. The two touch screens
suck power like a vacuum cleaner, and even Acer’s claim of three
hours on a full charge may be on the high side if you’ve got the
screens set to bright and are connected to a Wi-Fi network.
Moreover, the battery isn’t user-replaceable, so you’ll tend to
find yourself tethered to an electrical outlet.  Like many PC-makers, Acer is groping to find its way in a
market increasingly moving toward tablets and other mobile
devices; its chief executive officer, Gianfranco Lanci, resigned
last week in a rift with the board over strategy.  With the Iconia Touchbook, Acer at the very least deserves
credit for doing something unusual in the well-ordered if ho-hum
world of Windows computing, and a certain sort of user may find
the laptop’s technology-forward approach irresistible.  Most people, though, will probably conclude it is a little
too out there, and too hampered by its heft and battery-life
issues. If it’s possible to be a really cool failure, this one
is.  ( Rich Jaroslovsky  is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Rich Jaroslovsky in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 