-- 
Biggest Brazil IPO of 2011 to Raise Up to $896 Million for Retailer Luiza

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 
2011-04-07T15:24:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/magazine-luiza-shareholders-may-raise-1-43-billion-reais-in-brazil-ipo.html
Magazine Luiza SA, a Brazilian
electronic goods and furniture retailer, and its shareholders
may raise as much as 1.43 billion reais ($896 million) in an
initial public offering that would be the biggest in the nation
this year.  The company plans to sell up to 67.9 million common shares
at 16 reais to 21 reais each, according to a prospectus
published on the company’s website today. The shares are
scheduled to be priced on April 28 and begin trading on May 2.  Brazilian cement maker Empresa de Cimentos Liz SA canceled
on April 5 a plan to sell shares in an IPO after demand didn’t
meet expectations. Five companies sold shares for the first time
in the Brazilian market since January. T4F Entretenimento SA,
the Brazilian live-entertainment company whose name stands for
Time For Fun, and its shareholders postponed the pricing date
for its share sale to April 11 from April 7, according to a
statement published in Valor Economico today.  “This is not exactly a great moment for IPOs,” said
Rogerio Freitas, a partner at Rio de Janeiro-based hedge fund
Teorica Investimentos, in a telephone interview. “Rising
interest rates in developed nations may hurt equity markets.
Only good companies will get good results from share
offerings.”  Magazine Luiza’s offering would be the biggest since QGEP
Participacoes SA, the  oil company  owned by Queiroz Galvao SA,
raised 1.32 billion reais in February.  The retailer operates 604 stores in  Brazil  and posted net
profit of 68.8 million reais in 2010, reversing a 92.7 million
reais loss a year before, according to a statement sent Feb. 28
to the securities regulator CVM.  Banco Itau BBA SA is arranging the sale for Magazine Luiza.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net 
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  