-- 
China Tells Outsiders Not to Meddle in Probe of Olympic Artist

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-07T08:03:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ai-weiwei-probed-for-economic-crimes-by-china-as-global-backlash-mounts.html
China  lashed out against mounting
international criticism of its investigation of artist Ai Weiwei
for “economic crimes” and said outsiders shouldn’t meddle in a
case that has nothing to do with human rights.  China is a country ruled by law and “other countries have
no right to interfere,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Hong Lei
told reporters today in Beijing. The probe of Ai is “on
suspicion of economic crimes, it has nothing to do with human
rights or freedom of expression.”  Ai’s reported detention has resulted in the strongest
overseas condemnation since China began a crackdown against
activists calling for nationwide rallies in February. China has
detained dozens of activists and placed restrictions on foreign
journalists seeking to report on the protests inspired by pro-
democracy movements that have swept across the Middle East.  German Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle yesterday
summoned Chinese ambassador Wu Hongbo to discuss Ai, who was
reportedly taken into custody April 3 while trying to board a
Hong Kong-bound plane in Beijing. Police have taken away some
employees at Ai’s Beijing workshop for questioning, Radio
Television  Hong Kong  reported today, citing Ai’s mother Gao Ying.
The Hong Kong government-funded broadcaster didn’t say how many
workers were arrested.  ‘Very Worried’  “We are very worried about the continuing detention of the
Chinese artist Ai Weiwei,” Westerwelle, who is also vice
chancellor, said in a statement on the Foreign Ministry’s
website. The ambassador was called in “to ensure that our clear
and unambiguous message reaches the Chinese government.”  Departing U.S. Ambassador to China  Jon Huntsman  said
yesterday America will defend the rights of Chinese human rights
activists such as Ai and jailed Nobel laureate  Liu Xiaobo .  Future ambassadors “will continue to speak up in defense
of social activists, like Liu Xiaobo, Chen Guangcheng and now Ai
Weiwei, who challenge the Chinese government to serve the public
in all cases and at all times,” Huntsman said in a speech in
 Shanghai .  Liu won the Nobel Peace Prize last year for his struggle to
promote human rights and democracy. Chen, a rights activist, was
released last year after being sentenced in 2006 to four years
and three months in prison.  China yesterday first attacked western governments, media
and human-rights groups for criticizing the detention, saying in
a commentary in the state-sanctioned  Global Times  website that
the artist “will pay a price for his special choice.”  ‘Abide by Law’  Hong said today: “The Chinese government guarantees the
freedom of expression of Chinese citizens, but in the meantime
Chinese citizens must abide by law and act within the framework
of the law.”  Ai’s Twitter page, which has more than 75,000 followers,
contains posts supportive of more democracy in China and
critical of Communist Party rule. Twitter’s website, which is
blocked by China’s government, isn’t available to most of the
country’s more than 450 million Internet users. One of Ai’s
exhibits, featuring millions of ceramic sunflower seeds, is on
display at the turbine hall of  London ’s Tate Modern gallery.  Germany ’s Sueddeutsche Zeitung on April 4 published what it
said was Ai’s last interview before his arrest. He said the
Chinese authorities had destroyed his new studio in Shanghai and
prevented a planned exhibition in Beijing.  “Recently they have been putting more and more people in
jail, just because they write something on Twitter or on a
blog,” he told the newspaper.  Ai collaborated on the design of the Olympic Bird’s Nest
Stadium in Beijing, working with the Swiss architects Herzog &
de Meuron.  The European Union on April 5 called for China “to refrain
from using arbitrary detention” and  Taiwan ’s Mainland Affairs
Council yesterday urged China to release Ai, according to a
statement posted on the council’s website.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  