-- 
Thailand's Rice Bowl May Get Smaller as Government Spurs Curbs in Planting

-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-04-07T17:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/thailand-s-rice-bowl-may-get-smaller-as-government-spurs-curbs-in-planting.html
Many Thais revere Me Posop, the rice
goddess who guards humankind and rewards good stewards of her
grain. Me Posop has been kind to  Thailand  in recent decades.  While its neighbors Vietnam, Myanmar,  Cambodia , and  Laos 
struggled through war, Marxist-Leninism, and authoritarian rule,
Thailand prospered from its new factories and rice exports. The
nation surpassed Myanmar as the world’s top rice shipper in
1965. Last year, 9 million metric tons of Thai rice were
exported around the world.  Thailand, like the Saudi Arabians in oil, became the key
producer, the country that could always moderate global prices
with its abundant reserves. This year, while corn and wheat
prices have reached new highs, ample stockpiles of Thai rice
have driven rice prices down, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in
its next issue.  Now the Thai government is proposing a change in strategy
for its rice growers, who feel pressured by prices, pests and
competition from emerging rivals. The government may be ready to
abandon Thailand’s position as the world’s top rice exporter, a
serious decision considering the mounting anxiety over the
stability of global  food supply .  Thai farmers are certainly worried about their business. In
the rice paddies near Ayutthaya, a former Siamese capital that
17th century emissaries from Louis XIV compared with Paris in
its wealth and importance, Payao Ruangpueng must battle an
infestation of rice planthoppers that are munching their way
through the paddies.  Crop Damage  “We’re suffering from a rice-price slump, crop damage, and
lower-than-expected production,” she says, standing on the edge
of a rain-soaked paddy. “Production costs are higher than
income. We can’t afford to continue planting.”  The Thai government stated its intention in March to
encourage farmers to cut a third planting this year to improve
quality and combat the hopper, which dies if deprived of rice
plants for 25 days. The plan may eventually reduce annual
exports by 2 million tons, or about 20 percent of Thailand’s
shipments.  Thai officials say they want the industry to focus on
grades of rice that fetch higher prices. While Thai rice
shipments have increased 33 percent in the past decade,
Vietnamese exports are up 70 percent in the same period to 6
million tons, according to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  Cambodia and Myanmar are also emerging as rice powers, says
Pramote Vanichanont, honorary president of the Thai Rice Mills
Association and a member of the National Rice Policy Committee.
Thailand has priced itself out of much of its own market, he
says. Land prices have risen, as well as the cost of tractors
and the wages of farmhands.  Marketing Hub  The government also plans to turn the country into the
warehouse, finance and marketing hub of  Southeast Asia ’s rice
trade. The Agricultural Futures Exchange of Thailand, the
nation’s government-backed rice and rubber bourse, is starting a
new futures contract on April 29 intended to be a regional
benchmark for standard quality rice.  This strategy may not be good for global food needs. The
 United Nations  expects world food demand to rise 70 percent by
2050, and its  Food and Agriculture Organization  urged Thailand
and its neighbors to grow more rice in February.  Reductions in Thailand’s production may end up hurting poor
consumers in  Africa  and elsewhere while doing little for Thai
prices, says Kiattisak Kanlayasirivat, a director at the Thai
office of trading company Novel Commodities SA.  “I doubt whether it is a good policy, as cutting the
supply may lead to food shortages,” says Kanlayasirivat, whose
firm trades about $600 million of rice a year.  The Vietnamese may not even have the resources needed to
replace cuts in Thai production.  “I personally think that  Vietnam  doesn’t need to become
No. 1 in rice exports,” says Nguyen Van Bo, president of the
Vietnamese Academy of Agricultural Science. “To export a lot,
Vietnam will have to exploit a lot of land, use a lot of
fertilizers. That could cause degradation of natural
resources.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at   lliebert@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net . 