-- 
Halfords Has Biggest Decline in Six Months on Lower Profit

-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 
2011-04-07T16:19:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/halfords-falls-to-lowest-in-18-months-on-lower-sales-trajectory.html
Halfords Group Plc (HFD) , the U.K.’s
biggest seller of car parts and bicycles, fell the most in six
months in London trading after it said pretax profit may be
slightly lower than estimates as the squeeze on  consumer
spending  started to hit sales.  Pretax earnings will be between 124 million pounds ($203
million) and 127 million pounds for the year ended April 1, the
Redditch, England-based company said in a statement today. Same-
store retail sales declined 6.8 percent in the fourth quarter,
compared with 5.5 percent for the full year.  The biggest squeeze on public spending since World War II
coupled with tax rises is curbing consumers’ willingness to
spend money on things like car maintenance, while increased real
estate taxes, fuel costs and carbon offset charges can’t be
recovered from higher prices.  “Halfords appears to be another retailer confirming the
slow retrenchment of UK consumers,” Hargreaves Lansdown Plc
analyst  Keith Bowman  said in an e-mailed comment. “There is no
disguising the increasingly difficult conditions being faced by
the company.”  The shares fell 18.6 pence, or 5.1 percent, to 350 pence,
the biggest fall since Oct 7., extending its decline in the
period to 14 percent.  Halfords plans to buy back as much as 75 million pounds of
shares in a program starting today, the company said.  “The consumer environment is uncertain and challenging,”
Chief Executive Officer David Wild said on a conference call.
“The downward trajectory in second-half sales is what we are
guiding to going forward.”  Analysts had been estimating pretax profit of 127.6 million
pounds for last year, Wild said. Today’s forecast wasn’t a
profit warning, he said. Analysts’ estimates had been based on
group sales increasing 5 percent, and revenue will be about 4.6
percent higher at about 869 million pounds, he said.  “We are trading the business as hard as we can,” Wild
said. “That is what we are focusing on.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net . 