-- 
Mall Vacancies Climb to Highest in Decade as U.S. Store Closings Persist

-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 
2011-04-07T14:37:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/mall-vacancies-climb-to-highest-in-decade-as-u-s-store-closings-persist.html
Vacancies at U.S. regional malls
rose to the highest in at least a decade in the first quarter, a
sign that landlords are struggling to keep tenants after the
recession even as retail sales increased,  Reis Inc.  said.  The vacancy rate climbed to 9.1 percent from 8.9 percent a
year earlier and 8.7 percent in the fourth quarter, the research 
firm said in a report today. It was the highest since Reis began 
publishing data on regional malls in 2000.  An eight-month rise in U.S. retail sales has failed to spur
increased mall occupancy, partly because of the amount of time
it takes to structure long-term leases, said Victor Calanog,
chief economist at New York-based Reis. The bankruptcy of 
Borders Group Inc., the second-biggest U.S. bookstore chain, 
and closings by  Macy’s Inc. (M) , the No. 2 department store, also 
contributed to the vacancies, he said.  “We should see some improvement in the retail sector
sometime later this year or early next year,” Calanog said in
an interview. “A reasonable estimate of when healthier sales
will translate into rising demand for retail space is around
nine to 12 months.”  Recession’s Impact  Some of the recent closings reflect the lingering impact of
the recession. Retailers often decide to shut stores several
months after a period of declining sales, and smaller businesses
within a mall might close as overall traffic slows following the
departure of an anchor tenant, Calanog said.  Borders, based in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan , filed Feb. 16 for
 Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection . The company said it plans to
shut about a third of its stores and is renegotiating leases for
others.  Mall landlords’ asking rents slipped in the first quarter
to an average $38.75 per square foot from $38.79 both a year
earlier and in the fourth quarter, according to the report.
“Rents are now back to levels last observed in the second
quarter of 2006,” Calanog said.  Mall of America  Regional malls typically include department stores along
with fashion and general merchandise retailers and range in size
from 400,000 to 800,000 square feet (37,000 to 74,000 square
meters), according to the  International Council of Shopping
Centers . The Reis data also include super-regional malls, such
as the  Mall of America  in  Minnesota , South Coast Plaza in
 Southern California  and Tysons Corner Center in  Virginia , which
are defined as larger than 800,000 square feet.  At neighborhood and community  shopping centers , which are
usually anchored by discount and grocery stores, the vacancy
rate rose to 10.9 percent from 10.7 percent a year earlier. The
rate was unchanged from the three previous quarters and the
highest since it reached 11 percent in 1991, according to Reis.  Rents paid by shopping center tenants dropped to an average
$16.55 a square foot from $16.67 a year earlier and $16.56 in
the fourth quarter, according to Reis. Landlords’ asking rents
fell to $19.03 a foot from $19.12 a year earlier and $19.05 in
the previous three months.  CoStar Group Inc. , a Washington-based data firm, said the
vacancy rate for all types of U.S. retail properties fell to 7.1
percent in the first quarter from a revised 7.4 percent a year
earlier and was unchanged from the fourth quarter. CoStar’s rate
includes freestanding stores, regional malls, strip malls and
community shopping centers.  More Jobs  Retail properties have had net occupancy gains for seven
quarters, longer than office or industrial buildings, helped by
increased consumer spending and job creation, CoStar said.  Still, asking rents at retail properties fell to an average
of $14.86 a square foot last quarter from $15.47 a year earlier
and $14.91 in the fourth quarter, CoStar said.  “The good news is the rate of decline has slowed
significantly,” Chris Macke, senior real estate strategist at
CoStar, said in an interview. “We’re starting to see that
trickle through.”  Vacancies could decline as the year goes on. Many retailers
have been taking advantage of lower rents and the scarcity of
new development to lease space in anticipation of stronger
sales, said Ross Moore, chief economist of Seattle-based
 Colliers International .  “They’re taking stores, I would argue, ahead of what they
actually need,” Moore said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  