-- 
MAN SE Said to Plan Russia Expansion With St. Petersburg Heavy Truck Plant

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-04-07T07:25:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/man-se-said-to-plan-russia-expansion-with-st-petersburg-heavy-truck-plant.html
MAN SE (MAN) , seeking to challenge  Daimler
AG (DAI)  in the fast-growing Russian heavy truck market, may announce
plans to build a factory in  St. Petersburg  as early as next
week, three people familiar with the matter said.  Chief Executive Officer Georg Pachta-Reyhofen and the
Russian city’s governor, Valentina Matviyenko, may sign an
investment agreement at a meeting April 14, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the plans are still private.  The factory will be MAN’s first production site in Russia
as the Munich-based truckmaker expands in emerging markets to
take advantage of growing demand for commercial vehicles. MAN,
 Europe ’s third-largest maker of commercial vehicles, expects the
Russian market for trucks weighing over 6 metric tons to more
than triple to about 170,000 vehicles by 2020.  “ Russia  will be a key pillar of MAN’s growth strategy,”
said  Marc-Rene Tonn , an analyst with M.M. Warburg in Hamburg who
recommends buying MAN stock. “Local production would help MAN
avoid import tariffs and tap the market’s vast potential.”  MAN said in December it would decide on Russian production
in the spring of this year. Spokesman Dominique Nadelhofer
declined to discuss the company’s Russia plans. Evgeniya
Alftfeld, a spokeswoman for Matvienko, also declined to comment.  Daimler, the world’s biggest truckmaker, owns an 11 percent
stake in OAO KamAZ and agreed with the Russian company last
December to jointly produce truck axles, adding to previous
ventures to assemble Fuso Canter and Mercedes Actros vehicles in
Russia. The German manufacturer also agreed last year to
cooperate with GAZ Group to assemble Mercedes Sprinter vans.  Russia Visit  Pachta-Reyhofen will be travelling to Russia’s second
biggest city as a member of a business delegation accompanying
Bavarian Prime Minister Horst Seehofer, the people said. Along
with MAN, the state in southern Germany is home to Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG, Audi AG and Siemens AG  “Russia is a huge market for transportation though it’s
maintaining obstacles to investment,” said Erwin Huber, a
lawmaker from Bavaria’s ruling CSU party and a former state
minister. “Politics can help trigger business projects and
improve market access for companies.”  MAN opened a truck assembly plant in 2007 near Krakow,
 Poland , to lower costs and target demand in eastern Europe with
vehicles tailored to the region. The factory has an annual
capacity of 30,000 vehicles.  MAN is the biggest truckmaker in  Brazil , where it bought
the commercial-vehicle operations of  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  in 2009 and
introduced models under its own brand last year. The truckmaker
plans to introduce a new series of heavy vehicles with Chinese
partner Sinotruk ( Hong Kong ) Ltd. of which it owns 25 percent.  MAN’s main commercial-vehicle unit has 13 production sites
around the world. Together with partner Avtomobili Rossiya, MAN
won an order last December for 1,700 TGS heavy trucks from OAO
Magnit, the country’s largest food retailer by market value.  “Russia is an important part of our internationalization
strategy,” Frank Hiller, the division’s sales and marketing
chief, said in December.  -- With assistance from Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow. Editors:
Chad Thomas, Chris Reiter  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  