-- 
Anglo American May Halve Australia Spending on Carbon Plan, Carroll Says

-- B y   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-04-07T08:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/anglo-may-halve-4-billion-australia-spending-on-carbon-plan-carroll-says.html
Australia ’s proposed carbon tax
would halve the value of  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ’s planned $4 billion
investments, making them less viable to develop, Chief Executive
Officer  Cynthia Carroll  said.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s plan to price carbon ahead
of an emissions trading system as early as 2015, would
jeopardize Anglo’s spending program, Carroll said on national
television after meeting Gillard today in Canberra. Anglo, the
nation’s second-largest metallurgical coal exporter, plans to
develop four local projects, yielding 3,200 jobs, Carroll said.  Gillard, will announce details of her proposal, including
the price and compensation levels for companies and households,
by the middle of this year. The plan faces opposition in
parliament, where her minority Labor government needs four extra
votes to pass laws.  “We are concerned about the carbon-pricing policy,”
Carroll told Australian Broadcasting Corp. television. “It has
the potential to halve the value of those investments.”  Anglo, based in  London , is boosting output of the metals
and minerals needed to meet rising Asian demand for appliances
and cars as economies in the region grow faster than those in
the U.S. and  Europe . The company, which controls the world’s
largest producer of platinum, is building iron ore, copper and
nickel mines in  South America  and expanding in Australia.  “The prime minister is very open and wanting to work hand-
in-hand to find the right path going forward to address carbon
reduction,” Carroll said on television. “We’re all concerned
as an industry about this.”  Australia’s planned 30 percent tax on coal and iron ore
profits had been addressed, Carroll said. The government plans
to release draft laws on its proposed mining tax in coming
months and it is scheduled to start in 2012.  “The mining tax is behind us, I think it’s been addressed
effectively,” Carroll told the ABC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  