-- 
Hapoalim Seeks China, India Growth on Higher Israel Trade

-- B y   R o n i t   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-07T14:06:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/hapoalim-seeks-growth-in-china-india-as-trade-with-israel-gains.html
Bank Hapoalim Ltd.,  Israel ’s second-
largest lender by market value, plans to expand in China and
 India  as local companies increase trade with the Asian
countries, Chairman Yair Seroussi said.  “We see a shift in trade into these two markets,”
Seroussi said in an interview at Hapoalim’s headquarters in Tel
Aviv, Israel. “We are following the Israeli companies trading
and investing there to offer them services.”  Export of goods from Israel increased $10.5 billion in 2010
and 41 percent of this gain was attributable to Asian countries,
according to the Central Bureau of Statistics. Hapoalim already
has a private banking branch in  Singapore , a representative in
 Hong Kong  and a private equity business in Beijing.  “In about five years, we see this becoming a mature
business that will influence our financials,” Seroussi said of
the  Asia  operations.  The international business is an essential long-term growth
driver, Seroussi wrote in a letter published in the 2010 annual
report. In 2009, domestic operations accounted for about 87
percent of Hapoalim’s revenue, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Following customers to Asia is good, but is not expected
to contribute much to the bank’s profitability,” Terence Klingman, an analyst at Meitav Investment House Ltd., said in a
phone interview. He has a “buy” recommendation on the shares.  Retail Market  Hapoalim said on March 31 that profit in the fourth quarter
climbed 53 percent to 713 million shekels ($207 million) as net
interest income increased and provisions for bad loans declined.  The shares slid 2.2 percent to 17.50 shekels at the 4:30
p.m. close in  Tel Aviv , bringing the loss this year to 5.3
percent. That compares to a decline of 2.8 percent for Bank
Leumi Le-Israel Ltd., the country’s largest bank, and a 0.7
percent drop for Israel’s TA-25 benchmark stock index.  Hapoalim, which has an approximate 32 percent share of the
Israeli retail market, is seeking to increase business with
students, ultra Orthodox and Arab customers as well as medium-
sized corporate clients.  “In terms of retail, we see domestic growth in the Arab
sector in Israel and in the ultra-religious sector, especially
in the city of  Jerusalem . We are only touching this potential
and we think there is a lot of room to increase,” Seroussi, 55,
said. Hapoalim is also growing in the U.S. and  Switzerland , he
said.  “In  New York , we are expanding from our historical
business with Israeli clients to the domestic middle market,”
said Serrousi, who previously was the head of Morgan Stanley in
Israel. That branch added 150 new corporate customers in the
past year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ronit Goodman in Tel Aviv at 
 rgoodman9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  