-- 
Retailers Post Surprise Gain in March Sales, Led by Costco

-- B y   M a t t h e w   T o w n s e n d   a n d   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i
-- 
2011-04-07T20:09:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/march-retail-sales-at-victoria-s-secret-costco-beat-analysts-estimates.html
Retailers posted surprise sales
gains last month after rising U.S. employment prompted shoppers
to spend more at chains including  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST) ,  Saks
Inc. (SKS)  and Limited Brands Inc.’s Victoria’s Secret.  Same-store sales at Victoria’s Secret rose 19 percent, more
than 10 times the rate predicted by estimates compiled by Retail
Metrics Inc. Industrywide, retailers posted a jump of 2.2
percent, compared with the average projection for a 0.5 percent
drop.  Consumers, whose purchases account for about 70 percent of
the  U.S. economy , withstood a 7.2 percent surge in gasoline
prices as they bought up clothes and luxury goods. Some have
more to spend after the jobless rate fell to a two-year low last
month, helped by employment in business services and health
care.  “The momentum continues to build here, and as long as the
jobs picture improves, retailers will be in good shape through
June,” said  Ken Perkins , president of Swampscott,
Massachusetts-based Retail Metrics.  U.S. membership warehouse chain Costco rose 8 percent,
compared with the average projection of 7.4 percent, according
to Retail Metrics, which tracks more than two dozen chains.  Columbus, Ohio-based Limited rose 57 cents to $35.80 at 4
p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading. Costco of
Issaquah,  Washington , advanced $2.83 to $77.82 on the Nasdaq
Stock Market. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Retailing Index gained
0.4 percent.  Easter Shift  Retailers weathered the loss of sales from a later Easter.
The holiday occurred on April 4 in 2010, 20 days earlier than
this year, and pulled sales into March. The later Easter reduced
sales by as much as 5 percentage points, Limited said today in a
recorded call.  Same-store sales at apparel chain  Gap Inc. (GPS)  dropped 10
percent, compared with the estimated decline of 7.3 percent.
Last month’s earthquake and tsunami in  Japan , where the retailer
has more than 150 stores, cut into results, Chief Executive
Officer Glenn Murphy said in a statement. The shares fell 34
cents to $22.72.  Most chains count locations open at least a year to
tabulate same-store sales. This revenue is a key indicator of a
retailer’s growth because new and closed sites are excluded.  Gasoline Prices  Gasoline prices, which have increased by almost one-third
from a year ago, didn’t appear to curb spending as much as
expected, said  Brian Sozzi , an analyst for Wall Street
Strategies in New York.  “I’m surprised, because if you are paying more for gas,
you are paying more for food and basic apparel,” said Sozzi.
“It’s kind of a triple whammy and those are things the consumer
didn’t have to deal with last year.”  Retailers including teen apparel chain The  Buckle Inc. (BKE) ,
department-store  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and luxury retailer Saks Inc.
surpassed estimates. Macy’s, the second-largest U.S. department-
store chain, posted a 0.9 percent gain in same-store sales after
analysts projected a decline of 3.6 percent.  Retailers as a group had surpassed analysts’ estimates in
six of the past eight months. In March 2010, same-store sales
tracked by Retail Metrics climbed 8.7 percent for the largest
gain in a decade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  