-- 
Harmony May Sell Bonds to Fund Share of $3 Billion Mine

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-04-07T06:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/harmony-gold-may-sell-bonds-to-fund-3-billion-project-in-papua-new-guinea.html
Harmony Gold Mining Ltd.,  Africa ’s
third-largest producer, may sell bonds to fund its share of the
planned $3 billion Wafi-Golpu project in  Papua New Guinea .  The company may use a mix of bonds, bank debt and cash to
fund its 50 percent share of the project in Morobe province,
Marian van der Walt, a spokeswoman for Johannesburg-based
Harmony, said in an e-mailed response to questions from
Bloomberg.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. (NCM) ,  Australia ’s biggest gold
producer, is its partner in the venture.  Mining companies are selling more bonds to take advantage
of declining financing costs and record prices for minerals.
Fortescue Metals Group Ltd., Australia’s third-biggest iron ore
producer, was the seventh-biggest issuer of high-yield bonds in
the U.S. last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “A  bond issue  would probably be quite attractive to
investors and the company in the current environment,” Warren Edney, analyst at Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, said by phone from
 Melbourne . “The iron ore miners like Fortescue got a greater
take up than they originally thought was likely - it may be the
same in the gold sector.”  Harmony, which last month dismissed speculation it was a
takeover target, closed yesterday at a two-year high in
Johannesburg. Newcrest fell 0.5 percent to A$41.50 at the 4:10
p.m. close of Sydney trading, trimming gains so far this year to
2.6 percent.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold high-yield bonds
sold by metals and mining companies in the U.S. instead of
government debt has dropped 75 basis points this year to 382
basis points, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.
The securities have handed investors a 4.4 percent return in
2011, the data shows.  “Delivering on our targets, the gold price and the rand
strength would all play an important role” in deciding on
funding, Harmony said in the e-mail. “Having said that, the
Wafi-Golpu project is showing such promising results, that it
would easily attract finance.”  Recent drill results indicated the project may be able to
produce 1 million ounces of gold and 400,000 metric tons of
copper a year, Geoff Breen, an analyst at  RBC Capital Markets ,
said in a March 31 report after a trip to the site. The cost of
the development may rise to $5 billion, according to a Goldman
Sachs & Partners Australia Pty estimate.  The Papua New Guinea government has the option to buy as
much as 30 percent of the joint venture, which would dilute the
stakes of the partners to 35 percent each.  Harmony sold 1.2 billion South African rand ($180 million)
of 13 percent bonds in 2001 that matured in 2006, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The company has a BB-  credit rating ,
the third-highest non-investment grade ranking, from Fitch with
a stable outlook.  Gold climbed to a record this week as fighting in  Libya ,
 Japan ’s nuclear crisis and European debt concern boosted demand
for the metal as a protector of wealth. It’s up 2.5 percent this
year, after jumping 30 percent in 2010 as investors sought
sanctuary from currency debasement and accelerating inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs
 at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  