-- 
Harper Election Campaign May Get Boost From Canada Jobs Report Tomorrow

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-04-07T13:35:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/harper-election-campaign-may-get-boost-from-canada-jobs-report.html
Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper’s election campaign may get a boost tomorrow from an
employment report that is forecast to show a sixth straight
monthly gain, bolstering his argument his  Conservative Party  is
best at managing the economic recovery.  Statistics Canada is likely to report a job gain of 28,000
people for March, and a decline in the unemployment rate to 7.7
percent from 7.8 percent, according to the median of 25
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The Ottawa-based agency’s
jobs report, the only one scheduled to be published during the
May 2 election campaign, is due tomorrow at 7 a.m. New York
time.  Harper says the recovery would be threatened by a coalition
of opposition parties that would curb growth by increasing taxes
and spending. Canada was the first Group of Seven nation to
recover the jobs lost in a global recession and credit crisis,
and increased employment may remind voters of  Canada ’s recovery
in what Harper has called “a sea of trouble” abroad.  “When good news happens you try to take credit for it,
when bad news happens you say it’s the global economy,” said
Richard Nimijean, who teaches Canadian Studies at  Carleton
University  in Ottawa. The Conservatives will try to “fine-
tune” the data to their target audience of “people who are
middle class and vulnerable,” he said.  Wasting Money  Liberal Party Leader  Michael Ignatieff  says the government
is wasting money by cutting the  tax rate  for corporations, and
he is pledging to reverse a reduction that took effect Jan. 1
and halt another one due next year, using the money instead for
social programs and deficit reduction.  “What’s really happening out there is a lot of people have
lost their jobs and a lot of people are having a tough time,”
Ignatieff said at a March 31 town hall in  London , Ontario. He
has said during the campaign that Canada suffers from “workers
without jobs and jobs without workers.”  Harper’s Conservatives were supported by 39.6 percent of
decided voters, followed by 30.4 percent who supported the
Liberals, according to a CTV/Globe/Nanos election survey
published today. The telephone survey of 1,200 people conducted
April 4-6 has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percent.  The Conservatives failed to win a majority with 37.7
percent of the popular vote in the last election in October
2008.  Stronger Dollar  Canada’s currency has strengthened 2 percent since the
government was defeated on a non-confidence motion March 25. The
country’s benchmark Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite index has
risen 1.2 percent and the 2-year government bond yield has
increased to 1.88 percent from 1.73 percent.  Statistics Canada  said today that building permits rose 9.9
percent in February, the fastest pace in five months. A gain in
non-residential work exceeded a drop in housing.  The Canadian dollar appreciated 0.1 percent to 96.03 cents
per  U.S. dollar  at 9:09 a.m. in Toronto, from 96.08 cents
yesterday. It touched 95.69 cents yesterday, the strongest since
November 2007. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0416.  Harper has touted tax breaks for manufacturers and small
businesses that hire new workers while on the campaign trail.  ‘Low-Tax Plan’  “It is a low-tax plan of critical importance to jobs,
growth and the financial security of hardworking Canadian
families,” Harper said in a March 27  speech  in Brampton,
Ontario, part of the Toronto suburbs where he needs to add seats
to help form a majority government.  Canada’s last labor report showed a job gain of 15,100 in
February, which followed a gain of 69,200 in January that was
four times greater than economists had forecast. Average hourly
wages advanced 2.5 percent from a year earlier. The jobless rate
of 7.8 percent in February was closer to the 8.6 percent rate in
June 2009 as the recession ended than the 6.2 percent rate in
September 2008 as it began.  Unemployment won’t decline much this year, a separate
Bloomberg economist survey shows; the jobless rate will average
7.4 percent in the last three months of the year according to
the weighted average of 18 responses.  Still, the job market is stronger than in the U.S.,
Canada’s biggest trading partner. The  unemployment rate  in
Canada has been below the U.S. since October 2008. The U.S.
unemployment rate unexpectedly dropped to a two-year low of 8.8
percent in March, the Labor Department said April 1 in
 Washington .  “The Conservatives have a favorable image as economic
managers,” said Ian Stewart, who teaches political science at
Acadia University in Wolfville, Nova Scotia. “They are going to
hammer this theme again and again.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  