-- 
Art of ‘Economic Crime’ Inflames China’s Wounds: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-04-07T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/art-of-economic-crime-inflames-china-s-wounds-william-pesek.html
Jasmine-phobia is leading  China ’s
leaders to some imaginative places -- like the art world.  The detention of artist Ai Weiwei elicited the strongest
international criticism since the crackdown against activists
calling for Egypt-style rallies, China’s “Jasmine revolution.”
It also put on display how China is getting creative itself.  China is investigating Ai for alleged “economic crimes.”
What’s odd is that Ai is such a positive for China. He’s a hip,
globally renowned innovator who helped create one of the coolest
stadiums ever for the Beijing Olympics. That he’s seen as a
threat sends a terrible message: If China is this worried about
its stability, maybe we should be too.  The economy is going great guns. It overtook  Japan  as No. 2
in the world and while inflation is up, it’s not disastrous. Yet
the widening crackdown on dissent suggests that behind the
veneer of strength and $2.8 trillion of currency reserves,
things are shakier than they look. It speaks of brittleness and
insecurity, not confidence.  Investors now have more reason than ever to question the
popular narrative of uninterrupted 10 percent growth. They also
need to be mindful of an even bigger risk. By pushing too hard,
Chinese authorities might create so much popular resentment that
they provoke the very uprising they’re trying to prevent.  Over the Top  Take the over-the-top reaction last year when jailed
dissident  Liu Xiaobo  won the Nobel Peace Prize. The bluster got
more attention than the award itself, as did China’s bizarre
campaign to talk governments from the  Philippines  to  Saudi
Arabia  into boycotting the ceremony in Oslo.  Detentions are time-honored intimidation tactics. Taking
out a high-profile foe makes like-minded activists think twice.
Such strategies have more in common with the Cultural Revolution
than a nation that shares the status of a “BRIC” economy along
with Brazil, Russia and  India . Sooner or later, authorities will
go too far and there will be a backlash.  You would think Chinese officials have enough to do.
Ensuring rapid growth to create jobs and maintain social calm
must be the priority. To do that, they must slow inflation
eating away at living standards of hundreds of millions of
people. On top of that, China must reduce pollution and retool
an economy that’s dependent on manufacturing for export.  Dissent Crackdown  The sheen is off the mercantilist model that got China
where it is today. It must build a dynamic domestic market that
cultivates entrepreneurs who create indigenous companies. This
entails greater free speech, increased transparency, rule of law
and ending the practice of favoring national champions. It’s a
challenging transition and China’s leaders seems to think any
dissent gets in the way.  In reality, the opposite may be true. This is a time for
China to own up to the fact that its economy may be destined to
become the world’s dominant power. It’s time to shoulder the
responsibilities that come with that.  Ai’s arrest suggests that no such transition is anywhere in
sight. His sin seems to be his Twitter page, which includes
posts advocating more democracy and criticism of Communist Party
rule. Twitter’s website is blocked by China’s government and
can’t be seen by most of the country’s Internet users. Ai has
about 75,000 followers.  Details have been sketchy since reports that Ai was taken
into custody in Beijing on April 3 as he boarded a Hong Hong-
bound plane. It’s all so unnecessarily cloak and dagger.  Only time will tell if Ai’s detention will rouse the
masses. China clearly is taking no chances after people power
inspired revolts from  Egypt  to  Bahrain  to  Libya . Yet more
information is slipping through the cracks all the time.  The irony is that China is making Ai a bigger celebrity
than ever.  Touchy Situation  In the process, China is forgetting why it tapped his
talent and vision for the nation’s huge coming-out party in
2008. The main  stadium  used at the Beijing Olympics is an
architectural masterpiece. Ai helped design this postcard symbol
that millions around the globe instantly associate with Chinese
creativity and modernity. Now, China is in the touchy situation
of explaining why it fears the guy.  Jasmine-phobia is the kind of self-inflicted wound China
doesn’t need as it lashes out against governments, media and
human-rights groups criticizing the Ai affair. It’s angry that
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  and departing U.S.
ambassador to China  Jon Huntsman  are speaking out.  Different World  What China fails to recognize is that the world in April
2011 is much different from the one that existed at the start of
the year. Since then, Egyptians have swept  Hosni Mubarak  from
office, Libyans are fighting to oust  Muammar Qaddafi  and Chinese
activists called for nationwide rallies. Even if China manages
to silence Ai, other activists may step up and take his place.  Look, if Ai is an economic criminal, whatever that is,
let’s hear why. Let’s see the evidence. Otherwise, China’s
leaders should ignore Ai and the pundits and focus on what its
1.3 billion people expect: progress. That means narrowing the
gap between rich and poor and making sure its economy develops
in a healthy and sustainable way.  Clamping down on the likes of Ai may seem expedient and
painless at the moment, but it’s a distraction from the big
picture. And if China feels it must muzzle Ai, it might consider
handling things a bit more artfully next time.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  