-- 
U.S. Stocks, Japan ETF Drop, Yen Up as Earthquake Shakes Tokyo

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-04-07T20:11:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/asia-stocks-gain-yen-rises-on-speculation-of-boj-measures-oil-declines.html
Stocks fell, pulling the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  down from an almost three-year high, equity
futures slid in  Tokyo  and the yen rose as another earthquake
shook  Japan . Oil topped $110 a barrel and commodity indexes rose
to the highest levels since 2008.  The Dow slipped 17.26 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,409.49
at 4 p.m. in New York and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
dropped 0.2 percent. The  iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ) , an
exchange-traded security tracking the nation’s equities, lost
0.8 percent, paring a drop of as much as 1.7 percent after Japan
canceled a tsunami warning. Ten-year Treasury note yields were
little changed at 3.55 percent after rising earlier. The yen
strengthened against 15 of 16 major counterparts.  Equities turned lower after a magnitude-7.1 aftershock, one
of the strongest since the devastating earthquake March 11,
struck Japan today 215 miles (345 kilometers) northeast of
Tokyo. At least three nuclear facilities lost some outside
power, while the damaged Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant was spared.
Stocks also retreated amid growing concern an impasse over the
federal budget may lead to a shutdown of the U.S. government.  “Investor pysches are a little fragile,” said James Dunigan, chief investment officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth
Management, which oversees $108 billion. “It’s not surprising
investors stepped to the sideline until they could find out
whether this new earthquake would cause significant damage,” he
said. “We’re working through the issues on the budget deal.
That’s not a significant negative, but we’d probably like to see
that resolved without a shutdown.”  Japan Futures  Nikkei 225 Stock Average futures expiring in June were at
9,520 in  Chicago , down 0.8 percent from the closing level of
9,595 in  Singapore . The Chicago contracts slid as low as 9,420.
Japan’s currency rose more than 0.8 percent versus the Danish
krone, euro and Swedish krona, the biggest gains among 16 major
peers, as the earthquake caused investors to seek a haven in the
currency and unwind risky bets financed with borrowed yen.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) ,  General Electric Co. (GE)  and  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) 
lost at least 0.9 percent to lead the Dow’s drop after the
earthquake. The cost to protect Cisco System Inc.’s debt climbed
as Chief Executive  John Chambers  reiterated that the largest
maker of networking equipment needs to make a “major change”
to rectify mistakes. Credit-default swaps on the company’s debt
rose 3.4 basis points to 65.9 basis points as of 10:53 a.m. in
New York, the highest since Aug. 31, according to data provider
CMA.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index , which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.8 basis point to a
mid-price of 93.52 basis points at 4 p.m. in New York, according
to index administrator Markit  Group Ltd.  Shutdown Concern  The U.S. House approved a stopgap spending bill to keep the
government open through next week, although President Barack Obama said he would veto the measure and a shutdown still looms.
A failure to extend the government’s spending authority, which
expires tomorrow, would force the closure of national parks,
monuments and museums. Federal agencies -- such as the National
Labor Relations Board -- that don’t protect lives, property or
national security also would be shuttered.  Earlier gains in U.S. stocks came as improving retail sales
and a drop in jobless claims bolstered optimism in the economy.  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)  surged 10 percent after the home
furnishings retailer forecast earnings that beat analysts’
estimates.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  climbed 3.8 percent as
comparable-store sales at the largest U.S. warehouse club
increased at almost twice the forecast rate.  Newmont Mining
Corp. (NEM)  rose 3.3 percent on plans to increase gold output and link
its dividend to the price of the metal, which advanced to a
record for a third straight day. Gold for June delivery climbed
as high as 0.6 percent to $1,466.50.  Jobless Claims  Applications for jobless benefits fell by 10,000 to 382,000
last week, the fewest since Feb. 26, Labor Department figures
showed today. Economists projected claims would be little
changed at 385,000, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The euro slid against 14 of its 16 most-traded peers after
the  European Central Bank  increased its benchmark rate to 1.25
percent from a record low of 1 percent, in line with the
prediction by all 57 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The
shared currency weakened from its strongest level in more than a
year versus the dollar, slipping 0.2 percent to $1.4305, after
ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet said today’s increase wasn’t
necessarily the “first of a series.”  ‘Hint of Irony’  The ECB’s rate increase was its first since 2008 and came
even as Portugal asked for a bailout that may be worth as much
as 75 billion euros ($107 billion), two European officials with
knowledge of the situation said. Record-high borrowing costs
made it the third in the euro region to seek rescue funds.  “There is more than a hint of irony that Portugal has been
forced to ask for a bailout on the day that the ECB is expected
to hike  interest rates ,” Jane Foley, a senior foreign-exchange
strategist at Rabobank International in  London , wrote in a
report before the ECB’s decision. “While it can be argued that
a 25 basis-point hike will not make an enormous difference for
funding costs in the region, the peripheral crisis does
underline the question mark over how high the ECB can push
interest rates over the next year or so.”  European Stocks  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index erased earlier gains after the
earthquake, ending the session down 0.3 percent.  Hochtief AG (HOT) 
tumbled 7.9 percent after  Germany ’s biggest builder warned of
losses at its Australian unit. Bayerische Motoren Werke AG led
auto-industry shares lower. Banks limited the selloff after
Portugal sought an EU bailout.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES)  and  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) ,
Portugal’s biggest publicly traded lenders, climbed more than 4
percent each. The yield on the government’s 10-year bond rose
six basis points to 8.60 percent after LCH Clearnet Ltd. planned
an extra 15 percent deposit charge for clients holding “long”
positions, or bets on gains, in Portuguese debt.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index was little changed near its
highest level since June 2008, after a seven-day, 5.7 percent
gain. Russia’s Micex Index retreated 0.8 percent from the
highest in almost three years. Egypt’s benchmark gauge lost 0.9
percent  Oil rose 1.4 percent to $110.30 a barrel, above $110 for
the first time in 30 months, as a fire burned at Libya’s Sarir
field, bolstering concern that unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East will spread, curbing shipments.  Coffee and nickel also advanced more than 1.3 percent to
lead the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB index of commodities to
the highest level since September 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at   mregan12@bloomberg.net .
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  