-- 
Latin America's Biggest Borrower Boosts Market Share to 65%: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 
2011-04-07T21:48:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/latin-america-s-biggest-borrower-boosts-market-share-to-65-mexico-credit.html
Mexico  is accounting for a record
share of Latin American government dollar bond sales this year
as it takes advantage of near-zero benchmark U.S. interest
rates.  The government sold $1 billion of bonds due in 2040
yesterday to yield 5.95 percent in its second dollar issue in
two months, pushing its share of regional offerings to 65
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield is
down 27 basis points, or 0.27 percentage point, from the last
time it offered the notes a year ago.  El Salvador  and  Jamaica 
are the only other governments in Latin America and the
Caribbean to tap the dollar bond market this year.  Mexico is stepping up debt sales while others shun the
international market because Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  is
less concerned than regional counterparts about bringing dollars
into the country and fueling gains in the currency, according to
 Gabriel Casillas , chief Mexico economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Cordero said on March 28 that the currency controls implemented
by other developing nations are ineffective and create
“distortions” in the economy.  “Mexico stands out as one of the countries that has been
able to remain outside of this debate and has managed financial
variables within the expectations of freely moving markets,”
said Jaime Valdivia, head of emerging-market research in New
York at Bluecrest Capital Management, which holds $1.2 billion
in developing-market investments. “The likelihood of us
increasing our exposure in Mexico in the near term is high.”  Mexico sold $4 billion in dollar debt overseas last year,
the most by a Latin American country and accounting for 34
percent of regional dollar bond sales, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Currency Measures  Developing countries  including Brazil have put in place
measures to stem foreign investment that is fueling currency
gains and crimping exporters’ profits. Investors seeking higher-
yielding alternatives to near-zero interest rates in the U.S.
and  Japan  are pouring money into developing countries such as
Brazil, where benchmark borrowing costs are 11.75 percent.  Brazilian Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  tripled a tax on
foreigners’ fixed-income investments in October to 6 percent to
curb the real’s two-year, 38 percent gain. Brazil will extend a
6 percent tax on foreign loans maturing in up to two years from
debt due in less than 360 days, Mantega told reporters yesterday
in Brasilia.  “Those countries that implemented  capital controls  have no
evidence that it had any impact in stopping the currency from
appreciating and we believe that this creates very strong
distortions in the economy,” Cordero said in an interview in
Calgary. “ Interest rates  and tighter fiscal policy is the way
to do it.”  ‘Sweet Spot’  Mexico is the only major Latin American country that hasn’t
boosted interest rates in the past year as consumer prices
increase at the third-slowest pace in the region after  Chile  and
 Peru . Mexican inflation slowed to 3.1 percent in the 12 months
through mid-March, the lowest annual rate since May 2006 and
half the 6.1 percent pace in Brazil, the region’s biggest
economy.  “The truth is that Mexico is in a sweet spot right now,”
JPMorgan’s Casillas said in a phone interview from Mexico City.
“The government isn’t as worried as Brazil or Chile, where the
output gap has closed, inflation is rising, domestic activity is
strong and the central banks have to raise rates. This sale is a
message about the openness of the Mexican financial system and
how there is no thought to create capital controls.”  ‘Coming Down’  Mexico sold bonds yesterday to take advantage of falling
yields relative to U.S. Treasuries, Deputy Finance Minister
 Gerardo Rodriguez  said in a telephone interview from Mexico
City. The government plans to sell as much as $3 billion in
dollar debt this year, he said.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican dollar
bonds instead of Treasuries shrank 17 basis points this year to
132, according to JPMorgan.  “Our spreads are coming down and we wanted to take
advantage of that,” Rodriguez said. “We have reached our
primary goal for dollar debt this year with this sale.”  Brazil ’s Finance Ministry press office didn’t respond to
phone calls seeking comment on the country’s plans for debt
sales this year.  Colombia ’s public credit director German Arce
didn’t return a telephone call. Peru’s Deputy Finance Minister
Luis Miguel Castilla didn’t respond to telephone calls.  Peso Rally  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 1 basis point today to 101, according to CMA.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails
to comply with debt agreements.  The peso gained 0.3 percent to 11.77300 per dollar. It’s up
4.8 percent this year, the biggest advance among the six most-
traded Latin American currencies.  “The central bank of Mexico has depth of staff and superb
leadership, and is well established in managing its currency,”
 Michael Roche , a New York-based emerging-market strategist at MF
Global Holdings Inc., said in a telephone interview. “They’re
walking a reasonably growth-engendering but prudent policy.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  