-- 
Audi to Offer $285,000 Special Edition ‘Halo’ Models to Boost Exclusivity

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-04-08T14:56:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/audi-to-offer-285-000-special-edition-halo-cars-to-tackle-bmw.html
Audi AG (NSU)  will roll out two limited
edition models in coming months as part of an effort to increase
the brand’s exclusivity and better compete with  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  at the high end of the luxury market.  The  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  unit will introduce a Q7 sport-utility
vehicle next month in Russia with a two-tone exterior costing
200,000 euros ($285,000), sales chief  Peter Schwarzenbauer  said.
Audi will begin selling the R8 V10 Pure Sport in the  United Arab
Emirates  for 500,000 dirhams ($136,000) in June.  “There’s nothing better than tailoring cars to specific
markets,” Schwarzenbauer said in an interview. “We see huge
potential for business with limited special editions.”  To churn out more market-exclusive models and made-to-order
vehicles, which typically have better profit margins, Audi is
revamping its high-performance Quattro unit. The division, named
after Audi’s pioneering four-wheel drive technology, is also
responsible for Audi’s merchandising efforts to sell products
with the carmaker’s name and logo.  Audi aims to double the share of customized vehicles to 20
percent of global sales by 2015, when it vows to dethrone BMW as
the largest luxury-car maker, Schwarzenbauer said. The VW unit
is also considering special editions for the U.K. and U.S.  “These halo cars enable a brand to feature new designs and
engineering and show the best of its talents,” said Kevin Tynan, an automotive analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “The
motivation is to draw traffic to the showrooms.”  Chinese Model  The offerings for  Russia  and the U.A.E. follow Audi’s
successful sale last year of 450 of the Black-and-White edition
TT sports car, priced at 54,000 euros, to Chinese customers.  “The cars were still traveling on a vessel to  China  when
we sold the last one,” Schwarzenbauer said in a telephone
interview April 1. “It was a test case convincing us that
limited editions can be extremely successful.”  BMW has been pushing out country-specific editions for many
years “as a strategic tool” to spur sales in specific markets,
spokesman Stefan Behr said. Examples in 2010 include the 7-
Series Expo Shanghai edition and the M3 Tiger Edition for China,
as well as the 7-Series 40th Anniversary model developed for
Oman, Behr said.  Mercedes-Benz,  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s luxury brand, uses special
editions of regular models to emphasize a car’s performance
traits, spokeswoman Verena Mueller said in an e-mailed
statement. Special series include an Edition One of the SLK
hard-top roadster in Glacier Grey, according to Mueller.  Two-Tone Q7  “Special editions get customers to notice a brand they
haven’t considered before,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of
the Center of Automotive Management at the University of Applied
Sciences in Bergisch-Gladbach, Germany. “They’re an effective
technique to penetrate new markets.”  Audi will limit the Q7 V12 for Russia to 555 cars, which
will have a two-tone Phantom Black and Black Velvet exterior,
Schwarzenbauer said. It’s the first time the SUV is being
offered with a two-color exterior. The cost is also double the
normal price of the vehicle in the Russian market.  The Ingolstadt, Germany-based automaker will only make 40
of the R8 V10 Pure Sport car. A limited edition of the R8, which
the Quattro unit builds in Neckarsulm,  Germany , for the U.K. is
also under discussion, spokeswoman Esther Bahne said. The
division just began selling the R8 GT special edition and the
RS3 Sportback model.  ‘Rough Diamond’  “The Quattro division is like a rough diamond,”
Schwarzenbauer said. “We’re just at the beginning of reaping
its vast potential.”  Audi plans to spend 11.6 billion euros on new plants,
products and technologies through 2015, with about half the
amount earmarked for its two main German factories. Audi is
enhancing the high end of its 37-model lineup as well,
introducing a revamped A6 sedan this month, after the new A7
Sportback and an updated A8 sedan last year.  The German carmaker aims to increase 2011 sales worldwide
by more than 10 percent to over 1.2 million cars and SUVs.  Audi is mulling a limited edition model for the U.S. either
in 2012 or 2013 as customers in the world’s largest luxury car
market become more inclined to pre-order vehicles instead of
buying them directly off the lot, Schwarzenbauer said.  Customers in the U.S., where the VW unit has a goal of
doubling deliveries to 200,000 cars and SUVs by 2018, can choose
colors, fabrics and customized interiors under its “exclusive”
program.  The share of built-to-order vehicles of Audi’s U.S. sales
rose to an all-time high of 25 percent last month from 5.4
percent in 2009, he said. Audi is targeting a level of about 20
percent for sales of vehicles customized through the Quattro
division over the medium term.  “The car buying process in the U.S. is evidently
changing,” Schwarzenbauer said. “People are now requesting
more individualized options.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  