-- 
Australia Adds 37,800 Jobs in March, Sending Currency to Highest on Record

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-04-07T03:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/australia-adds-37-800-jobs-in-march-sending-currency-to-highest-on-record.html
Australian employers added more
workers than economists forecast in March, led by hiring in the
mineral- and energy-rich states of  Western Australia  and
Queensland and sending the local currency to a record.  The number of people employed rose by 37,800, rebounding
from a revised decline of 8,600 in February, the statistics
bureau said in Sydney today. The jobless rate fell to 4.9
percent from 5 percent, matching a two-year low set in December.  The data underscore varying speeds of Australia’s growth as
two states with a third of the nation’s population accounted for
two-thirds of new jobs. With the  unemployment rate  declining for
the first time this year, traders raised bets that the nation’s
central bank will lift interest rates to counter inflation.  “This is a very strong jobs number, particularly given
it’s once again all full-time employment driving the gains,”
said Matthew Circosta, an economist at Moody’s Analytics in
Sydney. “With unemployment now falling below 5 percent, wages
will accelerate further and intensify inflation.”  After the release, the Australian currency increased to as
much as $1.0482, the highest level since being freely floated in
1983, from $1.0428 before the data.  Inflation Signals  A gauge of inflation in the  bond market  showed the expected
rate of price gains surpassing the central bank’s target as
increased hiring by resource companies such as BG Group Plc
risks spurring consumer prices.  The extra yield of Australian inflation-linked bonds
maturing in five years compared with nominal five-year
government debt -- a gauge of the inflation investors expect
over the period -- reached 3.01 percentage points, the highest
level since February, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Reserve Bank  of Australia said in February the economy
will grow faster than previously forecast as rebuilding from
floods in Queensland state accelerates in the second half.
Shipments of  iron ore  and coal to  China  increasing demand for
workers prompted the bank to raise  interest rates  seven times
from October 2009 to November last year.  The number of full-time jobs advanced by 32,100 in March,
and part-time employment rose by 5,700, today’s report showed.
Australia’s participation rate, which measures the  labor force 
as a percentage of the population over 15 years old, rose to
65.8 percent in March from 65.7 percent a month earlier, it
showed.  Economists’ Forecast  The median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 25
economists was for a 24,000 increase in full- and part-time
positions.  Western Australia generated 12,900 jobs last month and
Queensland gained 11,900, today’s report showed.  South Australia ,
traditionally a center of the nation’s manufacturing industry,
recorded the third-biggest increase of 7,500.  The country’s most populous state, New South Wales, lost
7,500 jobs, the report showed.  Revisions in today’s report brought the net number of jobs
created in the first quarter to 43,700, as full-time work rose
by 70,900 and part-time positions fell by 27,200.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s biggest mining company, said
last week it had begun an initial study into the expansion of
the Olympic Dam project in South Australia. The planned
development would make Olympic Dam the largest uranium and
fourth-largest copper and gold mine, the state government said
last year.  RBA’s Stance  The Reserve Bank earlier this week kept rates unchanged at
4.75 percent for a fourth straight meeting after increasing them
by 175 basis since the global financial crisis. In contrast, the
U.S. Federal Reserve has held its benchmark rate near zero since
December 2008. That divergence contributed to about a 13 percent
increase in the local dollar versus the U.S. currency in the
past 12 months.  Traders see a greater than 50 percent chance central bank
Governor Glenn Stevens will increase rates in December, compared
with 28 percent before today’s release, bank bill futures show.  “The bottom line for policy is that June is still live and
markets continue to misprice the probability of a tightening at
that meeting,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist at ICAP
 Australia  Ltd. in Sydney. Bank bill futures currently show no
chance of the central bank raising in that month.  Employment Growth  Stevens said in a statement after the April 5 rate decision
that “most leading indicators suggest further growth in
employment, though most likely at a slower pace than in 2010.”  He said “reports of skills shortages remain confined, at
this point, to the resources and related sectors. After the
significant decline in 2009, growth in wages has returned to
rates seen prior to the downturn.”  A stronger currency is weighing on Australia’s
manufacturing industry, which contracted in March for the sixth
time in seven months, the Australian Industry Group and
PricewaterhouseCoopers said in a survey released in Canberra
April 1. A number below 50 indicates contraction.  To contact the reporter for this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  