-- 
Austria Says It Has Got Back 237,100 Frozen CO2 Certificates From Sweden

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-07T09:54:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/austria-says-it-has-got-back-237-100-frozen-co2-certificates-from-sweden.html
Austria  said it got back carbon
permits illegally transferred to  Sweden  in a hacking attack on
the European Union emissions-trading system in January.  Thieves transferred more than 2 million allowances valued
at around 34 million euros ($49 million) at today’s prices from
accounts in carbon registries in Austria, the Czech Republic and
 Greece  earlier this year. The Austrian Emissions Certificate
Registry, which earlier said 488,141 permits missing from its
accounts were found in Sweden and Liechtenstein, announced today
that 237,100 allowances were returned from a Swedish account.  “The transfer was executed by a Swedish court order, which
not only imposed the legal confiscation, but also their return
to Austria,” the registry said in a statement from Vienna
today. “The certificates frozen in  Liechtenstein  will probably
be returned to Austria in the next few days.”  The cyber-attacks roiled the European carbon market, the
world’s biggest, and prompted the EU to shut all registries in
the bloc’s emissions-trading system. The closure drove spot
markets to a halt for 15 days before the first registries, which
track transactions and ownership of permits, were allowed to
reopen. Each permit gives its holder the right to emit one
metric ton of carbon dioxide.  EU nations are working with Europol and other institutions
to recover the stolen permits,  Jos Delbeke , director general for
climate at the European Commission, said on March 22. The
 commission  supervises the emissions trading system, known as the
ETS and covering 27 EU nations as well as Iceland, Liechtenstein
and  Norway .  Czech Republic   The Czech Republic, which lost around 1.3 million permits
in the hacking attacks, said last month it will replace the
allowances stolen from the accounts of the Brno-based trader
Blackstone Global Ventures and power company  CEZ AS. (CEZ)   Even though the allowances stolen by hackers in January
account for only 0.01 percent of the EU annual cap, the attacks
hurt the reputation of the ETS and sparked criticism from some
analysts that the supervision of the system is not adequate. The
theft followed instances of “carousel fraud” involving value-
added tax collection and password “phishing” last year.  EU permits for delivery in December fell 0.2 percent to
17.12 euros as of 8:35 a.m. on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in  London . They have gained 20 percent so far this year.  Better Security  The commission has already demanded that national
registries implement additional identification checks and prove
they meet minimum security requirements and is now working on
regulatory changes that may be presented as soon as this month.  The proposals to modify the rules for registries will
probably include a delay in delivery of spot permits, Yvon
Slingenberg, head of the emissions unit at the commission, said
last month. The spot carbon market accounts for 10 percent to 15
percent of emissions trading in the EU, according to the
commission estimates.  The delay and most of other changes to be proposed will be
applicable for a single registry, which will replace national
emissions centers in the next phase of the EU program starting
in 2013. Some measures may also become mandatory in the current
trading period, which began in 2008, Slingenberg said.  The EU is also working on improved oversight measures for
spot carbon trading. While the futures market is already subject
to the EU regulation on financial markets, options on the table
for spot  emissions trading  include extending this regulation and
creating a tailor-made regime.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  