-- 
Lawmakers Urge Swap Regulators to Exempt End Users From Margins

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/lawmakers-urge-swap-regulators-to-exempt-end-users-from-margins.html
U.S. financial regulators must
exempt manufacturers and commercial end users of derivatives
from margin payments as part of rules required under the Dodd-
Frank Act, four Democratic and Republican congressional leaders
said.  Regulators including the  Federal Reserve  and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission should also “seek to limit other
regulatory burdens that could have the unintended effect of
driving up costs for end users and increasing systemic risk for
our economy,” the lawmakers wrote in a letter yesterday to Fed
chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner,
CFTC chairman Gary Gensler and Securities and Exchange
Commission chairman Mary Schapiro.  The letter was signed by Senator Debbie Stabenow, a
Michigan Democrat and chairman of the Senate Agriculture
Committee, Senator Tim Johnson, a South Dakota Democrat and
chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, Representative  Frank Lucas , an Oklahoma Republican and chairman of the House
Agriculture Committee, and Representative  Spencer Bachus , an
Alabama Republican and chairman of the House Financial Services
Committee.  The CFTC and SEC are leading U.S. efforts to write new
derivatives regulations required under Dodd-Frank after largely
unregulated swaps helped fuel the 2008 credit crisis. Dodd-Frank,
enacted last July, seeks to reduce risk in the  derivatives
market  by having most swaps guaranteed by clearinghouses and
traded on exchanges or other platforms.  The CFTC is scheduled April 12 to consider rules governing
margin in uncleared swap transactions, while the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. is scheduled the same day to consider capital
and margin rules.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  