-- 
Hays Third-Quarter Fee Gains Hampered by U.K. Spending Cuts

-- B y   D a v i d   A l t a n e r
-- 
2011-04-07T15:41:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/hays-third-quarter-fee-gains-hampered-by-u-k-spending-cuts-1-.html
Hays Plc (HAS) , the U.K.’s biggest
recruitment company, said fiscal third-quarter net fees
increased 16 percent on a comparable basis, with gains in  Asia 
and continental  Europe  helping to offset U.K. government cuts.  A “strong performance” in international operations was
weighed down by a 2 percent drop in the U.K. and Ireland, the
London-based company said in a statement today. Government
employment may be “rumbling along on the bottom” for two
years, Finance Director Paul Venables said on a conference call
with reporters.  In the U.K., fees for public projects plunged 37 percent as
budget cuts started taking effect. The decline was partly offset
by an 18 percent gain in private-industry hiring, the company
said. Comparable sales gained 23 percent in the Asia-Pacific
region, even though business was hurt by earthquakes in  Japan 
and New Zealand and flooding in  Australia .  “Exposure to UK public sector is likely to drag overall
progress for Hays given the ongoing market challenges, and the
ramification of Japanese earthquake is likely to take the shine
off full-year performance,” wrote Paul Jones, a Panmure Gordon
analyst with a “hold” recommendation on Hays.  Hays fell 5.4 pence, or 4.5 percent, to 114.1 pence at the
4:30 p.m. close in  London . The shares have dropped 11 percent
this year, giving the company a market value of 1.58 billion
pounds ($2.6 billion).  The Japanese earthquake, tsunami and subsequent nuclear
power plant accident may reduce second-half operating profit by
about 2 million pounds, the company said. Australian floods and
a  New Zealand  earthquake may trim the figure by as much as 2
million pounds, Hays said.  Hays sees “little evidence” that private-industry hiring
in the U.K. is offsetting government-spending cuts, Venables
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.”
Private-industry business is “gradually improving,” yet is
mostly replacement hiring, Venables said.  In continental Europe and other parts of the world, net
fees gained 35 percent on a comparable basis in the third
quarter, led by Brazil, Spain, Russia, and Poland.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Altaner in London at 
 daltaner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge in London at 
 Ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  