-- 
Bank of Japan to Offer $12 Billion in Loans Aimed at Earthquake-Hit Region

-- B y   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-04-07T08:11:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/bank-of-japan-to-offer-12-billion-in-loans-aimed-at-earthquake-hit-region.html
The  Bank of Japan  unveiled a lending
program to help companies in areas affected by the nation’s
record earthquake, while voicing concern the disaster may
depress economic growth in coming months.  The BOJ unveiled the 1 trillion yen ($12 billion) facility
as board members downgraded their economic assessment for the
first time since October. The bank held the benchmark overnight
rate at a range of zero to 0.1 percent and kept unchanged a
credit program and an asset-purchase fund that represent its
main policy tools.  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa’s efforts to restore stability
to the world’s third-largest economy since the March 11 temblor
have focused on pumping record one-day credit into money markets
and adding 5 trillion yen to its asset-purchase program. Even
together with today’s targeted lending facility, the efforts are
less than a tenth of the U.S. Federal Reserve $600 billion
quantitative easing program.  “Banks already have enough cash and don’t really need
liquidity,” said Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief economist at Shinkin
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “What Japan needs from the BOJ
is monetary easing that’s beyond the ordinary.”
　　　The yen traded at 85.27 per dollar as of 5:10 p.m. in Tokyo.
It has weakened more than 5 percent since Group of Seven
authorities sold the currency on March 18 to stem its advance.
The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average rose 0.1 percent to 9,590.93.  Shirakawa ordered his staff to map out details of the
quake-aid program by their next policy meeting. The bank said
today the one-year loans will be at 0.1 percent interest,
matching the upper range of the benchmark rate. To ease funding
restraints, bank staff will also draft measures to broaden the
range of acceptable collateral for lenders in disaster areas.  ‘As Soon as Possible’  “We would like to start implementing loans as soon as
possible after our April 28 board meeting,” Shirakawa told
reporters in Tokyo today. “We’re now carefully examining how
measures we have taken so far will affect the economy.”  Japan ’s economy is under  “strong downward pressure”  after
the earthquake damaged production facilities and weakened the
financial positions of companies, particularly small enterprises,
the central bank said. Pressure will persist “for the time
being” before the economy recovers, it said.  Ten of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predicted
the central bank would unveil an emergency lending program today.
Eight said the central bank may provide more monetary stimulus
at its next gathering this month and expand its asset-buying
fund and buy more bonds.  Semi-Annual Report  The bank is scheduled to release its semi-annual economic
outlook report at the next board meeting and project economic
growth and consumer prices through the next fiscal year ending
March 2013. Waiting until then to add stimulus will give policy
makers the opportunity to examine evidence for hints of the
scope of damage from the earthquake and crippled nuclear power
plant that has spurred electricity shortages.  By then, board members would have viewed March data for
factory output and exports, which were disrupted from the
temblor and ensuing tsunami. The  unemployment rate , housing
starts and consumer prices will also be released April 28. They
would have also gathered evidence on how regions are coping with
the disaster at a BOJ branch managers meeting on April 11.  “The BOJ may increase its asset-purchase program on April
28, in tandem with a March production data release, though it
will remain tough to assess developments with economic
indicators alone,” said Naka Matsuzawa, chief strategist at
Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo.  Record Cash  The BOJ injected a record amount of emergency cash into the
banking system following the quake and doubled its asset-buying
fund to 10 trillion yen on March 14. Funds in the loan program
announced today represent about 7 percent of total lending in
Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima prefectures in northern Japan
affected by the quake, according to Maoki Matsuno, an analyst at
Daiwa Securities Capital Markets Co. in  Tokyo .  “Regional banks are facing increased lending needs from
small enterprises, who are seeking to boost funds on hand,”
Matsuno said. The program “will make it easier for them to lend,
helping small enterprises in the area,” he said.  Data reflecting the state of the economy after March 11
point to a slower expansion. Japan’s large manufacturers expect
business confidence to slump in June and new car sales fell 37
percent in March, the biggest drop on record for the month.
Manufacturing shrank at the fastest pace in nine years,
according to a purchasing managers’ index.  Economists are divided over how quickly the Japan’s gross
domestic product will resume expanding on the back of demand
from reconstruction projects such as rebuilding roads, ports,
bridges and thousands of houses.  Economic Contraction  Economists of BNP Paribas SA and SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
predicted the world’s third-largest economy will shrink for the
first and second quarters after contacting at an annualized 1.3
percent in the three months ended in December.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
this week said Japan’s GDP growth may be reduced by as much as
0.6 percentage point in the first quarter and up to 1.4
percentage points in the second in the aftermath of the quake.  Federal Reserve policy makers said on March 15 that
economic implications of Japan’s disaster, including those on
global supply chains, “were not yet clear” while the incident
“had further increased uncertainty about the economic outlook”
along with turmoil in the Middle East, minutes of the Fed’s
meeting indicate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  