-- 
Bank of America Asks Court to Throw Out Mortgage Modification Litigation

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/bank-of-america-challenges-suits-on-loan-modification-under-u-s-program.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , accused in a
lawsuit of violating obligations to homeowners seeking to modify
mortgage loans and avoid foreclosure, asked a federal judge to
throw the case out.  Borrowers say the bank “systematically failed” to comply
with a U.S. government program aimed at stemming foreclosures
and violated contracts for modifying loans, according to a
complaint in federal court in  Boston  that consolidates cases
from across the country.  Bank of America, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, asked
U.S. District Judge Rya Zobel at a hearing yesterday to dismiss
the complaint. The bank argues that not all homeowners are
eligible for inclusion in the government’s Home Affordable
Modification Program, or HAMP, and that it isn’t required to
permanently modify all loans that are eligible.  “The bank is constantly working on the process, and the
Treasury is breathing down its neck to make the process
better,” said James McGarry, a lawyer for the bank.  The complaint consolidates 26 lawsuits from around the
country with another 10 to be added, Gary Klein, a lawyer for
the plaintiffs, said in an interview. If Zobel dismisses the
complaint, all the lawsuits would be thrown out, Klein said
after the hearing.  Evaluating Borrowers  Bank of America isn’t complying with obligations for
evaluating borrowers and modifying loans, the plaintiffs said in
court papers. Citing unidentified former employees as for some
of its allegations, the complaint accuses the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank of breaching HAMP requirements, misleading
homeowners and putting processes in place to avoid modifying
loans because it has financial incentives to do so.  “They have no rights?” Zobel asked Bank of America’s
lawyer during the hearing, referring to homeowners. “How long
can the bank decide whether or not to give it to them?” she
said about loan modifications.  McGarry declined comment after the hearing about
allegations in the complaint. Jumana Bauwens, a Bank of America
spokesman, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  “There’s more here than a simple breach of contract
claim,” Klein told Zobel. “It goes to real malfeasance.”  A majority of the plaintiffs received trial modification
plans, known as trial period plans, or TPPs, according to court
papers the bank filed. Those are part of the application process
and not enforceable contracts, the bank said. They also don’t
guarantee a permanent modification unless many conditions are
met.  Basic Eligibility Requirements  “Not one of the plaintiffs seeking to recover under the
TPPs has alleged that he or she met the basic eligibility
requirements and/or qualified for the offer of a permanent
modification,” the bank said in court papers.  The plaintiffs say customer service workers regularly tell
homeowners that modification documents weren’t received by the
bank when in fact they were. The bank also encourages borrowers
to default and fails to properly credit payments under trial
modifications, treating homeowners as delinquent, according to
the plaintiffs. One former employee who isn’t named recalled
seeing homeowners’ financial records manipulated in the bank’s
computer system, according to the complaint.  “BOA’s general practice and culture is to string
homeowners along with no intention of providing actual and
permanent modifications,” the complaint says. “Instead, BOA
has put processes in place that are designed to foster delay,
mislead homeowners and avoid modifying  mortgage loans .”  The case is In re Bank of America Home Affordable
Modification Program (HAMP) Contract Litigation, 10-md-02193,
U.S. District Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  