-- 
Barclays Capital to Offer Dim Sum Bond Fund in Singapore

-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g
-- 
2011-04-07T04:26:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/barclays-to-offer-dim-sum-bonds-in-singapore-on-china-potential.html
Barclays Capital , a unit of the
U.K.’s third-largest lender, is tapping retail investors in
 Singapore  for a fund that will invest in yuan-denominated bonds
outside  China .  The Renminbi Bond Fund will offer investors a chance to
participate in the developing and deepening offshore yuan bond
and deposit markets, the bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. Barclays Capital Fund Solutions, the  fund manager , will
keep subscriptions open until May 3 with a minimum investment of
S$1,000 ($793), it said.  The bank is joining other asset managers, including Hang
Seng Investment Management Ltd. and hedge fund Prudence
Investment Management Ltd., in offering so-called dim sum bond
funds. Yuan bank deposits in Hong Kong have quadrupled to a
record 408 billion yuan ($62 billion). They earn an annual rate
of 0.629 percent at Bank of China  Hong Kong  Ltd., while yuan
bonds in Hong Kong yield 1.918 percent on average, according to
data compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  “The fund will appeal to investors who have a strong view
of the renminbi appreciating and can be viewed as an alternate
to renminbi deposits which offer very low yields,” Peter Hu,
head of investor solutions for Asia ex-Japan at Barclays Capital,
said in the statement. Investors in Singapore are looking to
diversify and leverage China’s potential, he said.  Barclays forecasts the average daily trading volume in
yuan-denominated products outside China will jump threefold this
year to $1.5 billion. China’s currency will strengthen 3.9
percent to 6.3 per dollar by year-end, according to a Bloomberg
survey.  The yuan was little changed at 6.5450 per dollar as of
12:25 p.m. in  Shanghai , compared with 6.5440 yesterday,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 