-- 
Barry Bonds Hid ‘Powerful Secret’ About Steroids, Jury Told

-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 
2011-04-07T22:38:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/barry-bonds-chose-not-to-tell-the-truth-about-steroids-prosecutor-says.html
Barry Bonds,  Major League Baseball ’s
home-run record holder, was trying to keep a “powerful secret”
when he denied to a federal grand jury in 2003 that he was
taking steroids, a prosecutor said.  Bonds, the former left fielder for the  San Francisco  Giants
with a $17 million a year salary, tried to play the “victim”
who was “spiked” with steroids without his knowledge by his
lifelong friend and trainer, and his story is “implausible on
its face,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Jeff Nedrow told a jury
today in his closing argument in federal court in San Francisco.  “Why would the defendant testify falsely after receiving
immunity? The reason is he had a secret and it was a powerful
secret -- he was using steroids,” Nedrow said. “His secret was
so powerful that he couldn’t admit it and he wouldn’t admit
it.”  Bonds’s attorneys said the government’s evidence was
faulty, its witnesses unreliable and its prosecutors responsible
for withholding information beneficial to their client, whom
they tried to “demonize.”  Bonds’s lawyer, Allen Ruby, said the government presented
no evidence that the slugger’s testimony mattered to the grand
jury, a requirement for conviction of the perjury counts against
him.  “Cagey” prosecutors never made clear to Bonds in 2003
what the panel was investigating, he said. That would leave
jurors no choice but to guess about the grand jury’s work,
something they are forbidden by law to do, Ruby said.  ‘Tried to Intimidate’  “The government doesn’t get to do a ‘gotcha,’” Ruby said
in his closing arguments. “The prosecutors clearly tried to
intimidate him.”  Bonds, whose trial began March 21, is charged with three
counts of perjury for allegedly lying when he told a grand jury
he didn’t knowingly take steroids and didn’t receive injections
from anyone other than his doctor. He also faces one count of
obstruction of justice for allegedly providing evasive answers
to questions about his trainer  Greg Anderson , taking steroids
and getting injections.  His lawyers say he truthfully testified that he received
performance-enhancing substances from Anderson, not knowing what
they were because they were new at the time.  Closing arguments in the trial come a day before the  San
Francisco Giants  home opener, in which the team will raise its
World Series Championship banner. The team won the title last
year, three years after Bonds last played.  Personal Shopper  Nedrow pointed to the testimony of Kathy Hoskins, Bonds’s
childhood friend and former personal shopper, who testified that
she saw Bonds being injected by Anderson in the navel in Bonds’s
bedroom in 2002.  In the bedroom, Bonds said the injection was “a little
something something” for the road, “they can’t detect it, they
can’t catch it,” showing his knowledge of what he was taking,
Nedrow said in summarizing Hoskins’s testimony.  The prosecutor also pointed out the testimony of Colorado
Rockies first baseman Jason Giambi and other baseball players
who testified that they received performance-enhancing
substances from Anderson, who pleaded guilty in 2005 to
distributing steroids.  ‘Told the Truth’  “They didn’t want to testify about these things but they
came in and told the truth,” Nedrow said.  Cris Arguedas, another of Bonds’s attorneys who also spoke
to the jury today, focused on government witness Steve Hoskins,
Bonds’s former business partner who testified that Bonds told
him he used steroids.  Arguedas said the prosecutors in the case had a conflict of
interest because Bonds had gone to them with allegations that
Hoskins was stealing from him. Rather than pursuing that they
went after Bonds in the steroids probe, she said.  “Are they going to treat  Barry Bonds  as a victim of fraud
or are they going to treat Steve Hoskins as a witness as they go
after” the famous Bonds, Arguedas asked?  She also told the jury that Kim Bell, Bonds’s ex-mistress,
acknowledged that she had lied when told a grand jury that
Bonds’s testicles shrunk to half their size. An anti-doping
expert testified for the government that testicular shrinkage
was a side effect of anabolic steroids abuse.  Meanwhile, prosecutors defended her, Arguedas said.  “This is the person who posed for Playboy, and who went on
 Howard Stern ,” she said, raising her voice and waving her arms.
“And the government said, ‘well it was difficult for her.’ In a
perjury case.”  Bonds, 46, who broke  Hank Aaron ’s record of 755 career
home runs in August 2007, was charged in November of that year.  “He could have saved himself a lot of trouble,” Nedrow
said. “He chose not to do so because he had to keep his
secret.”  The jury may begin deliberations today.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  