-- 
Basketball Gamblers Profit on WNBA Games Las Vegas Bookmakers Try to Avoid

-- B y   E r i c   S p i t z n a g e l
-- 
2011-04-07T21:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/basketball-gamblers-profit-on-wnba-games-las-vegas-bookmakers-try-to-avoid.html
Tim York’s attraction to the  Women’s
National Basketball Association  makes his wife jealous.  “She sometimes asks me, ‘What do you see in women playing
basketball?’” said the 31-year-old from Houston. “Sure, some
of the girls are nice to look at while they’re playing. But
that’s not why I do it.”  York said his interest is purely financial.  “I tell her all the time, ‘There’s money to be made in
this sport,’” he said.  A professional gambler and owner of the Las Vegas-based
handicapping company  Sharp Group , York is at the forefront of
the women’s sports-betting movement, Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its April 11 issue.  As the WNBA prepares for training camp this month, York is
in the middle of his annual analysis of all the teams and
players.  In the three years he’s been betting on the WNBA, his
preparation has paid off: York said he has made a considerable
portion of his estimated $100,000 annual earnings from the
league.  It’s quite a feat, given that the WNBA comprises only 12
teams that play a 34-game schedule over a four-month season.  “I consider myself to be one of the best in the business”
of analyzing women’s basketball, York said. There isn’t a lot of
competition.  Little Competition  While $2.76 billion was legally wagered in  Nevada ’s sports
books during 2010, according to the  Nevada Gaming Control Board ,
there’s no record of how much was bet on the WNBA.  Scott Ghertner, director of sports and promotions for  MGM
Mirage  in  Las Vegas , figures it was “perhaps a couple of
percentage points at the most.” That’s exactly how professional
gamblers like it.  “It leaves an opportunity for guys that do this for a
living to step in and see things that the oddsmakers sometimes
don’t,” York said.  Jay Rood, the sports book director for MGM Mirage, said
bookmakers “probably don’t pay as close attention to the WNBA
as we do with other things.” That’s because most casual
gamblers aren’t interested in women’s sports.  Betting on women’s sports is the domain of what Rood calls
“the sharpest players.” If you’re betting on the WNBA, you
probably mean business, he said.  Little Data  “It’s one of the hardest sports to profit at,” he said.
Comprehensive WNBA statistics aren’t as readily available as in
other leagues.  “If the third-leading scorer for the  New York Liberty  is
out, not many people are going to be able to estimate her
value,” said Edward Golden, a handicapper for the Internet
betting service  Right Angle Sports .  He said he has had a 59 percent winning ratio on more than
300 WNBA bets during the past three years. To maintain this
success for his seven-plus weekly WNBA plays, Golden tries to
“gain as much intimate knowledge as possible on every WNBA
team, player and coach in the league.”  He compiles the data by himself, a trademark of WNBA
bettors. Anthony Nassor, founder of Las Vegas-based  Blueprint
Sports Monitor , a handicapping and wagering management service,
said more than 30 percent of his business comes from the league.  Variables Examined  Nassor evaluates variables such as how many of each team’s
players competed professionally overseas during the off-season,
each team’s recent travel schedule, and how much energy -- based
on the opponents’ style -- the players exerted in previous
games.  He also bases his wagers on defensive numbers rather than
just offensive output. He computes a “cumulative defensive”
statistic that he converts into a “hypothetical total” -- and
then keeps the information to himself.  He also has a habit of betting against deceptively hot
teams until they start losing and wagering on home teams
returning from winless road trips.  If that doesn’t work, he monitors players’ Twitter feeds,
looking for even the slightest hints about injuries, emotions,
or other factors. Wagering on WNBA games, he said, is just like
playing the stock market.  “You do your indexing and research and analyze your
budget, and try to buy in when a good stock is low,” he said.  This philosophy has helped Nassor expand his business
through satellite offices in Bakersfield,  California , and
Hanover,  Germany .  Developing Market  The women’s sports-betting movement has come a long way.  Back in the 1990s, bookmaker Robert Walker had a vision.
While running sport books from the MGM Mirage to the Stardust,
Walker was one of the first oddsmakers to treat women’s sports
betting equally.  Although friends and colleagues told him he was crazy, he
booked everything from the National Collegiate Athletic
Association women’s basketball tournament to the WNBA Finals.
Walker quickly learned the hard way that such betting was for
professionals only.  “It got kind of personal,” he said. “I would have guys
come in and want to bet $5,000 on a game. If you take $5,000 on
a women’s basketball game, (the sports book is) against that
guy. We didn’t have people betting $50 on the other side of it.
We didn’t have enough money to offset it.”  Big Loss  It became a contest between Walker and the finest minds in
the sports book trade. And when he lost, he lost big.  “We definitely struggled in the beginning,” he said. “It
eventually got better, but it was always a crapshoot.”  Without much data or Internet research to base his odds on,
he said he sometimes felt like “we were throwing darts and
hoping for the best” -- a strategy that didn’t play all that
well with his bosses.  These days, Walker lives in a small town on the Washington-
Idaho border, his departure from the sports-book business
hastened, in part, by his youthful fervor for women’s sports.  “In 1996, I predicted that in 10 or 15 years, women’s
basketball would be as popular with gamblers as the men’s,” he
said. “I also said that sports gambling would be legal in every
state except  Utah . I couldn’t have been more wrong.”  Still, Walker maintains a passion for the women’s game and
is looking forward to watching the  Seattle Storm  and its star
player, Lauren Jackson.  Money Talks  “If you watch Jackson play and you don’t come away as a
fan, you’re insane,” he said, acknowledging that “it’s not the
same when you don’t have money on it.”  York would agree. Last June, as the 2-8  Minnesota Lynx 
prepared to play the 2-7  Los Angeles Sparks , he got a lucky
feeling.  With both teams slumping, oddsmakers placed the line for
total points scored -- known as an over/under -- at 161.5.  “Everyone was running from the ‘over,’” said York.
“Except me.”  Nine months later, he still remembers the thrill he felt as
the final whistle blew on the Sparks’ 88-84 win -- and York
pocketed a payoff in the “high” hundreds.  It’s a reminder, he said, of how the WNBA can lead to some
sweet, fast money.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Spitznagelt .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 