-- 
Besieged Libyan City Gets Aid as U.S. General Sees Stalemate

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-08T08:15:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/besieged-libyan-city-gets-aid-as-u-s-general-sees-stalemate-in-conflict.html
Libyan rebels and Muammar Qaddafi’s
forces are locked in a military impasse, a U.S. general warned,
as Nomura Holdings Inc. said that the country’s oil output won’t
rebound to pre-war levels when the fighting ends.  U.S. Army General Carter Ham, who commanded the opening
phase of the allied military operation, told a U.S. Senate
committee yesterday that the conflict is in a stalemate and the
use of NATO air power is “increasingly problematic” when it
comes to hitting regime forces without endangering civilians and
opposition fighters.  Foreign staff members have fled from  Libya ’s oil fields
since anti-government protests broke out in mid-February and
escalated into armed conflict, meaning the country’s oil output
would remain below one-third of its previous level in the
immediate aftermath of a cease-fire, Michael Lo, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Nomura, wrote in a report.  The war in Libya, which holds  Africa ’s largest oil
reserves, has helped push crude prices up more than 30 percent.
U.S.-led forces from the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
intervened in the conflict after a March 18 United Nations
resolution authorizing the protection of civilians. NATO air
strikes initially enabled a rebel advance which has been halted
by Qaddafi’s forces and reversed in the past week.  Friendly Fire Incident  Rebels fleeing the oil port of Brega toward the city of
Ajdabiya in eastern Libya said their tanks and a convoy were
mistakenly hit NATO fighter jets, the  Associated Press  reported.
At least five rebels were killed and more than 20 injured, AP
said. The insurgents have complained that air strikes have given
them less protection since the U.S. handed control of operations
to NATO, and are demanding more support. NATO says it’s
investigating the incident.  The U.S. and allies have debated arming the rebels, without
announcing any decision. Sending arms is not a good idea until
U.S. officials have a “better understanding of exactly who the
opposition force is,” Ham said. He also cited the rebel-held
city of Misrata, that’s besieged by Qaddafi loyalists, as the
main failure of NATO policy, saying air strikes haven’t been
able to end the siege.  An aid ship chartered by the UN Food Program reached
Misrata through fighting in the port to deliver food, medicine
and water purification equipment. Former Libyan Energy Minister
Omar Fathi bin Shatwan, who fled to Malta on a fishing boat
April 1, described Misrata in an interview as a city where
“there is no food or medicines, there is nothing but fear and
dead bodies all over the place.”  Oil Rises  Crude oil closed at a 30-month high and extended gains
today, adding 0.9 percent to $111.25 a barrel at 8:40 a.m. in
 London .  “If all the Libyan national oil company-operated fields
were to join the rebels and production goes into full swing,
total production can likely reach only 450,000 barrels a day,
28.5 percent of pre-crisis levels,” according to Nomura’s Lo.  “The remaining fields were operated by independent  oil
companies , who have fled the country,” he wrote. “The shortage
of human capital makes it difficult to bring all the fields back
into production.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  