-- 
Bill Ackman Says He Is Short Simon Property to Hedge General Growth Stake

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-07T20:25:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/bill-ackman-says-he-is-short-simon-property-shares-as-general-growth-hedge.html
Bill Ackman, part of a group of
investors that brought  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  out of
bankruptcy last year, said he is holding a short position in
shares of rival mall owner  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG)   The bet that Simon shares will decline is “not because
it’s a bad company,” Ackman said in an interview today at a
conference hosted by New York University’s Schack Institute of
Real Estate. “It’s a hedge” against his General Growth
holdings, he said.  Ackman’s Pershing Square Capital Management LP was among
investors that committed more than $8 billion to General Growth
in a restructuring of the second-biggest U.S. mall owner. The
group prevailed in a takeover battle with Indianapolis-based
Simon, which had attempted to buy its smaller competitor.  Pershing owned about 70 million shares of Chicago-based
General Growth as of Dec. 31, equal to about a 7.3 percent
stake, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  General Growth spun off  Howard Hughes Corp. (HHC) , a property
owner and developer of master-planned communities, as part of
the bankruptcy exit in November. Ackman is chairman of the
Dallas-based company and owns about 3.6 million shares.  Simon fell 95 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $106.37 as of 4:15
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. General
Growth declined 24 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $15.07.  Short sellers profit from a decline in share prices by
selling borrowed securities and later replacing them with shares
bought at lower levels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  