-- 
Birmingham City Faces Premier League Review After Submitting Its Accounts

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-07T16:38:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/birmingham-city-faces-premier-league-review-over-its-financial-position.html
English soccer team Birmingham City
faces a Premier League review after accounts submitted by the
club and its parent company included auditors’ qualifications
that cast doubt on its future.  League Cup-winner Birmingham has been trying to raise funds
after its parent company, Hong Kong-based  Birmingham
International Holdings Ltd. (2309)  (BIH), said in March that its
liabilities exceeded assets by about HK$348 million ($45
million). The company raised HK$87 million in a share sale last
month as part of its funding target.  In its latest accounts for the year ended June 30, 2010,
Birmingham said it required funding from BIH to continue
operating within its agreed banking facilities. It said then
that it aimed to raise a total of 24.7 million pounds ($40.3
million).  “These conditions indicate the existence of a material
uncertainty which may cast doubt about the company’s ability to
continue as a going concern,” Birmingham’s auditor BDO LLP
stated in a note to the accounts.  Premier League  rules, drawn up after Portsmouth last year
became the first team in the competition to seek  bankruptcy
protection , require clubs to provide detailed accounts by March
31 every year. The league has the power to enforce financial
controls through measures such as blocking player trades and
contract negotiations with existing players if it has concerns
over teams’ balance sheets.  Birmingham spokesman Chris Kershaw today referred questions
about the team’s finances to a statement issued March 23 by the
Blues’ acting chairman Peter Pannu. He said major shareholder
Carson Yeung recently loaned “an additional” 4 million pounds
to the team.  ‘Scaremongering’  The loan was intended “to quell recent media reports
raising financial uncertainty against the club which came as a
result of journalistic-induced scaremongering,” Pannu said. The
Premier League declined to comment today.  Yeung met with the league last year and provided written
assurances that the club could be sustained over a full season
after the team’s auditors previously cast doubt about its
ability to function as a “going concern.”  Birmingham also needs to convince European soccer’s
governing body about its finances. It qualified for the Europa
League after beating Arsenal in the League Cup final in February
for its first major trophy in 48 years. UEFA’s club licensing
policy requires teams with qualifications in their accounts to
explain how they will continue to operate.  Birmingham, previously controlled by David and Ralph Gold
and  David Sullivan , was bought by Yeung in October 2009 in an
81.5 million-pound deal.  The team is 15th in the 20-team Premier League after 30
games. If it finishes in the bottom three, it would be relegated
to the second tier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  