-- 
Blockbuster to Build Subscribers After Dish Deal, Keyes Says

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-07T17:46:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/blockbuster-s-320-million-bankruptcy-sale-to-dish-network-wins-approval.html
Blockbuster Inc. (BLOAQ) , once the largest
video-rental chain, won approval to sell itself in bankruptcy to
 Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  and will seek to recruit subscribers as
consumers migrate to online movie viewing.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  in Manhattan today
approved Dish’s $320 million offer as the best and highest in a
48-hour auction that included bids from Carl Icahn and other
investors who would have liquidated Blockbuster’s assets.  The deal will build the Dallas-based chain’s subscriber-
based service as it continues to evaluate how many stores to
close with its new owner, Blockbuster Chief Executive James W. Keyes said in an interview after the hearing. He said 29,000
jobs and “billions” in contracts with suppliers were in limbo
until the deal was approved.  Keyes compared the company’s current on-demand service with
those of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ,
which are all based on individual transactions.  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
sells subscriptions for unlimited viewings by the month.  “With Dish’s presence on the subscription side, it brings
an opportunity for Blockbuster to have both transactional and
subscription offers down the road,” he said. Netflix focuses on
older movies, while Blockbuster’s mainstay is new releases, he
said.  Netflix Growth  Blockbuster filed for bankruptcy in September with 5,600
stores, including 3,300 in the U.S., saying sales shrank in
recent years while Netflix grew by renting movies online and
through the mail, and  Coinstar Inc. (CSTR)  put Redbox DVD vending
machines in supermarkets and drugstores.  About 1,700 Blockbuster stores will remain after the most
recent round of closures, Keyes said.  Tom Cullen, a Dish Network executive vice president, said
in a statement that Blockbuster’s store locations, its
recognizable brand and multiple methods of delivery would
complement Englewood, Colorado-based Dish’s existing video
offerings.  Dish fell 32 cents to $24 at 1:43 p.m.  New York  time in
Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading. The shares had gained 24
percent this year before today.  In approving the deal, Lifland said Blockbuster’s
continuing losses meant it couldn’t reorganize as a stand-alone
company. “There appears to be little to alleviate the ongoing
deterioration of the debtor’s assets,” he said.  The judge overruled objections from landlords, business
partners and other creditors about the amounts Blockbuster
proposed to pay them under contracts that it defaulted on. As of
yesterday, 111 parties had filed objections to the sale.  Careful Evaluation  Neil Augustine, managing director at Blockbuster’s
financial adviser, Rothschild Inc., said the company and
creditors carefully evaluated competing bids.  “The difficult thing would have been to assess the highest
bid from a liquidator,” he said.  Only SK Telecom Co., a Seoul-based wireless and Internet
service provider, also offered to buy the company and continue
relationships with suppliers, landlords and studios.  Stephen Karotkin, a lawyer for Blockbuster, said Dish’s
offer will pay $178.8 million to senior lenders, including $20
million set aside for administrative claims. Dish will also
assume $11.5 million in debt to movie studios.  The Dish offer provides nothing for Blockbuster
shareholders. Common stockholders come behind senior and junior
debt holders in line to be repaid in bankruptcy.  The auction was “certainly robust, contentious at times,
and encompassed five rounds of vigorous bidding,” Karotkin told
Lifland at the hearing today.  Martin Sosland , another lawyer for
Blockbuster, said the bidding lasted a total of 48 hours.  Blockbuster’s Chapter 11 bankruptcy petition listed assets
of $1.02 billion and debt of $1.47 billion.  The case is In re Blockbuster, 10-14997,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  