-- 
BMW Considering Global Olympics Sponsorship, Board Member Robertson Says

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-07T13:50:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/bmw-considering-global-olympics-sponsorship-board-member-robertson-says.html
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
world’s largest luxury carmaker, may become a global sponsor
of the  International Olympic Committee , one of its board members
said.  “Yes, we would like to expand our reach with the whole
Olympic movement,”  Ian Robertson , a BMW board member and its
sales chief, said in an interview in London today, when asked if
the company would be interested in a global Olympics sponsorship.  The IOC currently has 11 sponsors in its so-called Olympic
Partner program. That’s the highest level of sponsorship and
gives companies exclusive global marketing rights to the Summer,
Winter and Youth Olympic Games.  Procter & Gamble Co ., the
world’s largest consumer-products company, and Dow Chemical Co.,
the world’s second-largest chemical company, last year joined
the top-tier program through 2020. Other top-tier sponsors of
the IOC include General Electric Co. and Visa Inc. The IOC
doesn’t have a global car sponsor.  IOC president Jacques Rogge told Bloomberg in an interview
in July that the Lausanne, Switzerland-based organization wanted
to add one more global sponsor to a program that has raised more
than $1 billion in income.  “The values of the Olympic movement fit very nicely with
ours, and it’s something which has a true global position,”
Robertson said at the Sport Accord conference in  London .  “Not many sports do. Whether it’s the Winter Olympics or
the  Summer Olympics , there is huge audience participation, it
really is an international affair on all corners of the globe
and that’s something we’d like to be part of.”  Munich Bid  Earlier in the day, Robertson had appeared on stage
alongside two-time Olympic figure-skating champion Katarina Witt
and German interior minister  Hans-Peter Friedrich  to help
present the Munich bid to host the 2018 Winter Olympics.  Munich-based BMW, which was also involved with the 1972
Munich Summer Games, is one of several German companies
supporting the Bavarian city’s bid. The carmaker also endorses
the national Olympic committees of the U.S.,  China , France and
Greece, and is backing next year’s  London 2012 Olympics .  Munich is competing with Annecy, France, and Pyeongchang,
 South Korea , to host the Games, with the IOC voting July 6 in
Durban, South Africa.  “If Munich wins, it will be very good for German
industry,” Robertson said. “But I also think it will be very
good for the Olympic movement. As we’ve been talking in there,
German companies are highly involved with the Olympic movement,
in particular the winter side. And I can see that being extended
even further.”  German companies currently generate 50 percent of the
revenue of the 7 sports federations that have events in the
Olympic  Winter Games , Robertson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  