-- 
Boston Red Sox Ticket Prices Slump 40% on Worst Starting Record Since 1945

-- B y   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 
2011-04-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/boston-red-sox-start-season-0-6-for-first-time-since-45-in-cleveland-loss.html
The  Boston Red Sox ’s worst start to
the Major League Baseball season since 1945 has driven down home
ticket prices on the secondary market by 40 percent in eight
days.  The Red Sox lost yesterday to the  Cleveland  Indians 1-0,
leaving them 0-6 this season. For today’s home opener against
the New York Yankees, and throughout the three-game weekend
series, ticket prices are off by $100 or more, said Jim Holzman,
president of Boston-based  Ace Ticket , the largest Red Sox
broker, which resells about 1,000 tickets for each game.  “It’s like the stock market,” said Holzman. “If the
market dropped 1,000 points, the silver lining for the consumer
is that there are deals to be had.”  A Sunday night ticket for a field-box seat is going for its
face value of $130, compared with last week’s price of $250 to
$300, when the Sox opened 0-3 in Arlington,  Texas , against the
American League champion  Texas Rangers , Holzman said.  As of last night, 5,000 tickets for the home opener were
listed for sale on  FanSnap.com , the  Palo Alto , California-based
Internet search engine. The average price was $253, compared
with $328 on April 1, a 23 percent drop.  “As the team falters the price of their tickets will
generally fall,” said Christian Anderson, spokesman for
FanSnap.com.  Still, Red Sox tickets are the hottest ticket by average
ticket price on the resale market, Anderson said.  Worst in 66 Years  It’s the worst start for Boston since the team went 0-8
after losing Ted Williams, Bobby Doerr, Dom DiMaggio and Johnny Pesky to military service in World War II.  Boston  finished 71-83
that year.  At Progressive Field in Cleveland yesterday, Boston
starting pitcher Jon Lester held the Indians scoreless for seven
innings. He was replaced by Daniel Bard in the eighth and the
Indians got their only run when Asdrubal Cabrera bunted down the
third base line to score Adam Everett on a squeeze play.  In the next inning, designated hitter  David Ortiz  drew a
walk off Indians closer Chris Perez and was replaced by pinch-
runner Darnell McDonald. J.D. Drew then singled off Perez’s leg,
third baseman Everett scooped up the ball and threw behind
McDonald, who had rounded second base and was tagged out
scrambling back to the bag on his hands and knees.  The loss makes it three in a row to the Indians and leaves
the  Red Sox  outscored 38-16 this year.  Seeds of Doubt  Early losing streaks are just that: early in the season,
said Peter Golenbock, author of “Red Sox Nation” (Triumph
Books, 2005). However, they can plant seeds of doubt, especially
for a team such as Boston, where the pressure to win is
enormous, Golenbock said.  “If the team had lost six games in a row in June nobody
would say too much about it,” Golenbock said in an interview
from his home in  St. Petersburg ,  Florida . “The problem is, when
you start 0-6 is the glass half full or is it totally empty.”  The bleak start has some fans disturbed rather than
panicked.  “Considering the kind of money they spent, it’s a
disgrace,” said Scott Black, president of Delphi Management
Inc., a Boston investment firm, who describes himself as an
ardent fan.  The team accumulated the second-highest payroll in baseball
last season with about $170 million, behind the  New York
Yankees ’ $207 million, according to ESPN.  As grim as 0-6 is, it doesn’t compare with the 0-21 start
the  Baltimore Orioles  made in the 1988 season.  “You start like that you just don’t recover from it,”
Golenbock said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Moroney in Boston at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 jbeberman@bloomberg.net  