-- 
BP Well Leader Expressed Concern About Firing Before Spill

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-04-07T18:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/bp-gulf-well-leader-worried-he-would-be-fired-before-oil-spill.html
BP Plc (BP/)  engineer John Guide, leader
of the team that drilled the Macondo well, expressed concern he
could be fired five days before a blowout that killed 11 rig
workers and triggered the biggest U.S. offshore oil spill.  Guide made the comment in an April 15 e-mail to his boss,
BP Vice President  David Sims , according to documents entered
into evidence at a joint  U.S. Coast Guard-Interior Department
hearing  today in Metairie, Louisiana.  Guide’s lawyer said the comment was intended as a joke.  “John was never concerned about being fired at any
point,” David J. Stetler, a Chicago lawyer representing Guide,
said today in an e-mailed statement. “He is kidding his boss
(Mr. Sims) good-naturedly in the e-mail in question, something
that should be obvious if read fairly and in context.”  Sims considered replacing Guide as wells-team leader in the
weeks before the catastrophe, Jason Mathews of the  Bureau of
Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement , said during
the hearing, citing internal BP e-mails. Sims was critical of
Guide’s work habits and his intolerance of opinions from other
BP engineers that conflicted with his own, according to the
documents.  Guide emerged last year during the federal hearings as one
of the main decision makers in the weeks leading up to the
blowout that sank  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) ’s Deepwater Horizon rig and
halted deep-water exploration in the U.S. Gulf of  Mexico . As
wells-team leader, Guide was responsible for vetting and
approving each step in the design and drilling of the well.  Jogging Criticism  Sims criticized Guide for leaving the office to go jogging
after part of the well caved in weeks before the April 20
catastrophe. While Guide was running, the rest of his team was
struggling to figure out how to rescue stuck equipment from the
hole, according to a draft e-mail composed by Sims and cited
during today’s hearing.  Sims also considered moving Guide to Atlantis or Mad Dog,
other BP projects in the  Gulf of Mexico , and promoting another
engineer to take over duties on Macondo, according to the e-
mails.  When Sims requested a meeting in April 2010, Guide
responded in an e-mail, “Are you going to fire me?” according
to today’s testimony.  Guide was “in a state of professional chaos” in the weeks
leading up to the disaster, Ronnie Penton, an attorney
representing a Transocean worker who survived the catastrophe,
said during today’s hearing.  Unaware of Tension  Ian Little, a BP vice president who oversaw all of the
company’s exploration drilling in the Gulf of Mexico until early
April 2010, testified today that he wasn’t aware of any tension
between Guide and Sims. Both men reported to Little.  Guide was the BP manager responsible for ensuring the
blowout preventer used on the Macondo well underwent all
required inspections and certifications, Little said. BP
discovered in a September 2009 audit of the rig that the blowout
preventer was years overdue for maintenance, according to
documents entered into evidence.  Little told the panel he didn’t know why Guide failed to
make sure the blowout preventer was inspected and overhauled by
its owner, Transocean.  A  presidential commission  investigating Macondo issued a
380-page report in January that called Guide the “de facto
leader” of the Macondo project.  Guide’s name appeared 14 times in the report, more than any
other BP manager or executive, including former Chief Executive
Officer  Tony Hayward , who left the London-based energy company
in October.  Crucial Decisions  The report noted that Guide vetoed a proposal to install
equipment that may have prevented explosive natural gas from
seeping into the well.  Guide, a University of Pittsburgh-trained engineer, led the
$154.6 million Macondo project from a Houston office at the time
of the blowout that left 17 workers injured in addition to the
dead, and destroyed the $365 million vessel. The well leaked
crude into the Gulf for 87 days, shutting thousands of square
miles of fishing grounds and beaches before it was capped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in Metairie,  Louisiana , at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 