-- 
Brazil Shooter Kills 11 Schoolchildren in Rio Before Turning Gun on Self

-- B y   C a r l o s   C a m i n a d a   a n d   T e l m a   M a r o t t o
-- 
2011-04-07T20:34:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/brazil-school-shooting-in-rio-kills-13-injures-22-globonews-tv-reports.html
At least 11 children were killed and
13 injured when a man opened fire in a Rio de Janeiro elementary
public school this morning. The attacker killed himself as
police searched the building.  Wellington Menezes de Oliveira, a 23-year-old former
student, carried out the attack at the Tasso da Silveira
Municipal School in Realengo, on the western outskirts of Rio,
police Colonel Djalma Beltrame told Globo TV. Oliveira gained
access to the school carrying two revolvers in a backpack by
posing as a lecturer, police said.  “It was a premeditated act,” Beltrame said.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  said she was “shocked”
by the killing and ordered Justice Minister Jose Eduardo Cardozo
to work with local authorities on the case. Rousseff cried as
she asked for a minute of silence for the victims at an event in
Brasilia today.  Hundreds of people, including mothers of students and other
relatives, gathered around the school after the shooting as
police blocked access to the building. The 11 students were aged
9 to 14, Globo said on its website.  Oliveira headed toward a classroom after telling a teacher
who recognized him that he was going to take part in a series of
lectures by former students to celebrate the school’s
anniversary today, Rio Police Chief Martha Rocha said at a news
conference.  Suicide Note  In a suicide note found at the school, Oliveira asked that
his body be wrapped in a white sheet that he left in a room at
the school and to be buried next to his mother, according to an
image of the letter posted on Globo’s website and showed on TV.  Oliveira’s note also asked that only the “chaste” or
those who lost their virginity after marriage and did not commit
adultery should be allowed to touch his body without gloves.  An injured student escaped from the building and called
police patrolling the area, Beltrame said. The killer shot
himself after police caught him leaving one classroom and
heading toward another, he said.  Rio’s state governor, Sergio Cabral, pledged assistance to
the victims’ families and the surviving children at a news
conference in the city.  Officials at the press offices of Rio’s military and civil
police departments said they had no further information.  In a separate attack today, two children were injured by
two bombs thrown in the Mafalda Teixeira Alvarenga Municipal
School in the Arnaldo Eugenio neighborhood, also in the western
outskirts of Rio, Globo said on its website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carlos Caminada in Rio De Janeiro at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net ;
Telma Marotto in  Sao Paulo  at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Carlos Caminada at 
 ccaminada1@bloomberg.net  