-- 
Brazil's Real Surges Beyond 1.6 to Dollar as Mantega Says Rally Inevitable

-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-04-07T21:34:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/brazil-has-array-of-tools-to-stem-currency-gains-mantega-says.html
Brazil ’s real strengthened beyond
1.60 per dollar for the first time since August 2008 after
Finance Minister Guido Mantega said long-term appreciation is
“inevitable” as he announced a tax on foreign loans to curb
the rally.  The real gained as much as 2 percent to 1.5817 per dollar,
the strongest intraday level since Aug. 7, 2008. The currency
rose 1.7 percent to 1.5863 per dollar today, the biggest daily
increase since Oct. 5, 2010.  Mantega yesterday broadened the scope of a 6 percent tax on
foreign borrowing to include loans of up to two years from one
year, his third attempt in two weeks to curb a currency rally
that the government says is hurting local companies. The move
fell short of traders’ expectations and is unlikely to prevent
the real from gaining, said Daniel Ribeiro, an economist at
Credit Suisse Hedging-Griffo Asset Management.  “Mantega announced a measure that has zero impact,”
Ribeiro said in a telephone interview from  Sao Paulo . The real’s
appreciation is being driven by a rise in commodities, the
difference between internal and external interest rates, and
“infinite liquidity.”  Mantega said he has an “array” of tools to stem currency
gains that are hurting domestic producers. Since March 29, the
government has changed rules on taxes paid on foreign loans
three times. Banks and companies were previously exempt from the
tax on loans maturing after 90 days.  Currency Pressure  Mantega plans to hold a press conference today at 5:30 p.m.
New York time in Sao Paulo, according to an e-mailed statement.
The statement didn’t provide details on what he will speak
about.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is facing increasing pressure from
manufacturers to curb currency gains to help them compete
against a flood of cheaper imports from China, whose currency is
pegged to the dollar.  Mantega said the currency’s strength was, to some extent,
“inevitable” due to the economy’s growth.  His statement demonstrates that the government is
acknowledging there’s a limit to curbing the real’s
appreciation,  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said in a report.  “It sounds like an acknowledgment the authorities may try
soothing BRL appreciation, but they can’t curb it, regardless of
menaces of additional measures,” Santos wrote in a report
entitled “Givin’ up.”  The real has rallied 39 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
over the past two years.  Getting Results?  “All the measures we’ve taken have produced results,”
Mantega said, adding that the real could have strengthened to as
high as 1.50 per U.S. dollar in the absence of the currency
curbs. “If we hadn’t acted, then certainly the real would be
much more highly valued than it is now.”  The currency will likely trade at 1.50 to 1.60 per dollar
“in the near term” after the government signaled it may accept
currency gains that help control inflation, analysts at  Barclays
Capital  wrote in a report to clients dated yesterday. The bank
previously forecast the currency would trade at 1.65 to 1.75
reais per dollar.  “We are skeptical that these new measures will contain the
recent trend,” Guilherme Loureiro, a Sao Paulo-based economist
at Barclays, wrote in the report. “Moreover, we believe the
government is now willing to accept a stronger real to help
fight inflation.”  Brazil is stepping up its efforts to fight capital inflows
driven by the highest inflation-adjusted  interest rates  in the
Group of 20 nations and near-zero borrowing costs in the U.S.
and  Europe . Economic growth that last year reached 7.5 percent,
the fastest in over two decades, is also lifting the currency.  ‘Ineffective’ Policy  “The measure is likely to be ineffective to discourage
capital inflows and avoid a further appreciation of the
Brazilian real,” said Paulo Leme, chief Latin America economist
at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., in an e-mailed report.  Mantega kicked off what he called Brazil’s response to the
global currency war in October by tripling to 6 percent a tax on
foreigners’ purchase of fixed-income assets.  Pressure has been mounting on Rousseff to take additional
steps as manufacturers complain about a flood of cheaper imports
from  China .  Rousseff travels to China next week for a state visit and
to attend a summit of leaders from Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and
China, the so-called BRIC nations.  Brazil’s 11.75 percent benchmark interest rate compares
with 8 percent in Russia and 6.25 percent in  Turkey .  Brazil is forecast to raise its Selic rate to 12.25 percent
by year end to fight inflation expected to reach 6.02 percent,
according to the median estimates in an April 1 central bank
survey of economists. Brazil targets inflation of 4.5 percent,
plus or minus two percentage points.  Rate Futures  Yields on most of Brazil’s interest-rate futures contracts
climbed after annual inflation accelerated more than economists
forecast in March, taking the annual rate near the upper limit
of the government’s target range.  Consumer prices rose 6.3 percent in March from the same
month a year earlier and 0.79 percent from February, the
national statistics agency said today. The results beat the
median estimates of 6.19 percent and 0.7 percent among analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  on March
17 said monthly inflation might slow to 0.45 percent as Brazil’s
economy decelerates toward 5 percent growth in 2011.  Foreign Investment  Yields on the futures contract due in January, the most
actively traded in Sao Paulo today, rose 1 basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 12.25 percent. The yield on the contract
due in January 2013 also climbed 1 basis point.  Higher inflation levels reinforce the idea that the central
bank will have to raise the benchmark Selic rate by 50 basis
points in the next monetary policy meeting, said Adriana Dupita,
an economist at Votorantim Corretora in Sao Paulo.  “This spike in the IPCA is not good news,” she said in a
telephone interview.  Brazil’s economy is expected to attract a record $55
billion in foreign direct investment this year, according to
central bank estimates.  Developing economies will expand 6.5 percent this year
compared with 2.5 percent growth in developed economies,
according to an  International Monetary Fund  forecast published
in January.  Brazil’s economy will grow 4 percent this year, according
to the median estimate in a central bank survey of economists.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  