-- 
Brazil Curbs Won't Stop Real Rally as Gain Curbs Inflation, Barclays Says

-- B y   K r y s t o f   C h a m o n i k o l a s
-- 
2011-04-07T12:52:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/brazil-real-may-breach-1-60-per-dollar-level-in-near-term-barclays-says.html
Brazil’s real strengthened beyond
1.60 per dollar for the first time since 2008 after  Barclays
Capital  said Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  may tolerate
currency gains that help control inflation.  The currency will likely trade at 1.50 to 1.60 per dollar,
Barclays wrote in a report dated April 6, revising its earlier
outlook for 1.65 to 1.75 reais per dollar. The real gained 1
percent after the report to 1.5990 as of 8:15 a.m. in  New York .  Mantega yesterday told reporters that, while he can deploy
measures to curb gains in the real, the currency’s appreciation
was “inevitable” to some extent because of the economy’s
strength. He announced companies will have to pay a 6 percent
tax starting today on foreign loans with maturities of up to two
years, the government’s third attempt in two weeks to stem the
currency rally that is hurting manufacturers.  “We are skeptical that these new measures will contain the
recent trend of the real’s appreciation,” Baclays economists
Marcelo Salomon in New York and Guilherme Loureiro in  Sao Paulo 
wrote in the report. “Moreover, we believe the government is
now willing to accept a stronger real to help fight inflation.”  Yields on Brazilian interest-rate futures contracts due in
January climbed for a third day yesterday as investors raised
bets higher borrowing costs will be needed to cool the fastest
inflation in more than two years. The so-called Selic rate will
probably rise to 12.25 percent by yearend from 11.75 percent as
inflation is expected to reach 6.02 percent, according to median
estimates in an April 1 central bank survey of economists.  ‘Important Change’  “We interpreted Finance Minister Mantega’s press
conference as a very important change in view,” Barclays wrote.
“We take this as an indication that while the government will
continue to impose constraints on the real’s carry trades, it
believes there is little it can do to fight the global weakness
of the dollar and the attractiveness of flows into  Brazil .”  Latin America’s biggest economy expanded 7.5 percent last
year, the most in over two decades. Brazil’s benchmark interest
rate compares with near zero rates in the U.S. and  Japan ,
drawing foreign capital to the country and boosting the real by
43 percent since the end of 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krystof Chamonikolas in Prague at 
 kchamonikola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  