-- 
Brent Crude Oil Futures Halt Five-Day Advance in London on Demand Concern

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 
2011-04-07T12:13:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/brent-crude-oil-futures-halt-five-day-advance-in-london-on-demand-concern.html
Brent crude oil declined in  London ,
halting a five-day advance after rallying to a 31-month high
yesterday, on speculation that rising fuel prices may dent
demand in  China  and the U.S., the world’s biggest crude users.  The European benchmark retreated after climbing to $123.37
a barrel yesterday, the highest settlement since Aug. 1, 2008.
China’s National Development and Reform Commission said gasoline
and diesel retail prices will increase today because of global
crude costs. The world’s second-biggest economy raised  interest
rates  for the fourth time since October this week to cool
inflation. U.S. oil supplies climbed for a fifth week to 357.7
million barrels, the Energy Department said yesterday.  “We have some signs of the negative impact of high prices
on demand in the last weeks, and I would expect more numbers in
that direction in coming weeks,” said Andy Sommer, a senior
analyst at EGL AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland . “The market is too
high right now. If there are no additional supply outages I
expect a downward correction.”  Brent oil for May settlement fell 61 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to $121.69 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange as of 1:01 p.m. London time. Crude for May delivery on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange  was at $108.93 a barrel, up 10
cents, after slipping as much as 60 cents to $108.23 a barrel.  ECB Raises Rates  Futures extended declines after the  European Central Bank 
lifted interest rates for the first time in almost three years
to quell inflation, raising the benchmark rate to 1.25 percent
from a record low of 1 percent.  Still, Brent prices may rally after surpassing a key
resistance level at $119 a barrel, said Serene Lim, an energy
and commodity strategist at Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. in Singapore. “Once it breaches that, the next level
is $149 a barrel,” she said.  The European benchmark traded at a premium of $12.76 to
U.S. futures. The difference between front-month contracts in
London and  New York  surged to a record $19.54 on Feb. 21 as
unrest spread in the Middle East and North Africa and stockpiles
climbed at Cushing,  Oklahoma , the delivery point for New York
futures. The spread averaged 76 cents last year.  China raised the ceiling for gasoline prices by 500 yuan
($76) a metric ton and for diesel prices by 400 yuan. The cost
of No. 3 jet fuel gained by 500 yuan to 6,840 yuan a ton,
according to the country’s top economic planner.  Prices also dropped after the Bank of  Japan  cut its
assessment of the economy, the world’s third-largest energy
user, following the nation’s record earthquake on March 11.  U.S. crude advanced 10 percent in March as fighting in
Libya cut exports from  Africa ’s third-largest producer. Rebels
aiming to end Muammar Qaddafi’s 42-year rule and forces loyal to
the Libyan leader waged battles between the Qaddafi stronghold
of Sirte and the rebel-held city of Ajdabiyah.  Libya Premium  “The Libyan situation has been priced in” to the oil
price, said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne . “We haven’t seen
further signs of contagion and as a result prices seem
relatively comfortable around this range.”  The conflict is the bloodiest in uprisings that have
toppled the presidents of Tunisia and Egypt and spread to
Bahrain, Iran, Yemen and Oman.  Nigerian output may decline after the presidential election
takes place on April 16, according to  Barclays Capital . That
would curb supplies of the light, low-sulfur grades that have
been curtailed because of fighting in  Libya . More than 50 people
have died in election-related violence since July, according to
Amnesty International, while sectarian clashes in the north have
claimed the lives of at least 200 since Dec. 24.  U.S. Inventories  Total U.S. crude inventories climbed 1.95 million barrels,
the Energy Department report showed. A 2 million-barrel gain was
projected, according to the median estimate of 15 analysts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Supplies at Cushing slipped 16,000 barrels to 41.9 million
in the week ended April 1. Stockpiles in the previous week were
at the highest level since the government began keeping records
in 2004.  U.S. gasoline inventories fell 357,000 barrels to 216.7
million last week, the Energy Department said. They were
forecast to drop by 1.9 million barrels, the survey showed.
Supplies of distillate fuel, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, rose 195,000 barrels to 153.5 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in  Singapore  at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  