-- 
U.K. Banks Rise on Speculation of ‘Less Onerous’ Commission

-- B y   J o n   M e n o n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-04-07T16:20:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/british-banks-rise-on-speculation-of-less-onerous-commission.html
U.K. banks including  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  rose for a second day
on speculation that the government-sponsored  Independent
Commission on Banking ’s report next week will be less tough than
some investors feared.  HSBC Holdings Plc,  Europe ’s biggest bank, gained 1 percent
to 667.2 pence at the close of London trading, a rise of 3.1
percent over two days, while RBS rose 0.3 percent to 42.92
pence, a 3 percent increase over two days. The benchmark FTSE
100 Index fell 0.6 percent.  “We’ve gone from having angst on the banking commission to
the opposite now, which seems to be that the report will be less
onerous than had been expected,” said  Christopher Wheeler , an
analyst at Mediobanca SpA in London.  The ICB, commissioned by the government to examine
competition issues and whether to separate retail from
investment banking activities, publishes its interim report on
April 11 at 7 a.m. The  commission  may suggest the separation of
payment systems and retail deposits from other banking
operations, rather than a full breakup, people familiar with the
situation said last week.  The commission may also suggest banks make it easier for
customers to switch accounts and clarify product pricing,
analyst James Invine at Societe Generale SA wrote this week.  “There was a feeling banks had been oversold ahead of the
ICB report,” said  Bruce Packard , an analyst at Seymour Pierce
Ltd. in  London . “The speculative money that is in and out on a
short-term basis may have a feeling banks will be going up.”  While the commission is unlikely to recommend a separation
of consumer and wholesale banking units, it may put forward
additional measures to curb risk at lenders’ non-retail
divisions, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts including Frederik Thomasen wrote in a note to clients today. Those options may
include limits on proprietary trading and greater capital
buffers for wholesale operations, the analysts said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jon Menon in London at 
 jmenon1@bloomberg.net 
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  