-- 
Brokers More Inclined to Join Independent Firms, Fidelity Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-04-07T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/brokers-more-inclined-to-join-independent-firms-fidelity-says.html
Financial advisers increasingly see
moving to an independent firm or working for themselves as
“attractive” options, according to a survey by  Fidelity
Investments .  About 56 percent of 1,046 respondents said the independent
model holds more appeal in the current economic environment, the
Boston-based firm said today in a statement announcing the
results of the survey. The brokers cited costs of dealing with
new regulations as the top reason for shunning independence.  “It offers the opportunity to keep a lot more of your
revenue when you’re at an independent firm” or a registered
independent adviser, Sanjiv Mirchandani, president of Fidelity
subsidiary National Financial, said in an interview yesterday.
“The biggest thing that gives people some pause is the daunting
nature of what’s in front of us as all these rules get written
and rolled out.”  Registered independent advisers, or RIAs, were the fastest-
growing segment of the broker market from 2007 through 2009,
according to data from Boston-based research firm Cerulli
Associates.  Sallie Krawcheck , head of  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s
wealth management unit, said last month that her firm lost 36
advisers to independents in 2010, and she hadn’t seen evidence
of a “massive shift” that she said many people predicted.  Financial advisers that responded to the Fidelity survey
indicated that they planned to retire at the average age of 68.
Almost 20 percent said they expect to retire at 71 or later,
according to the survey. The average age for advisers is 49,
Fidelity said.  ‘Huge Number’  “Some people feared that a huge number of experienced
brokers would be leaving the industry due to retirement in the
next 10 years, and that may still be true to some extent, but
perhaps less so given the intention to work longer,”
Mirchandani said.  The online survey was conducted in late 2010 by Northstar
Research Partners, which received responses from brokers at so-
called wirehouse firms, regional and independent brokerages, and
RIAs, Fidelity said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  