-- 
Burqa-Clad Women Face French Fines as Sarkozy Ban Takes Effect

-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-04-07T22:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/burqa-clad-women-face-french-fines-as-sarkozy-ban-takes-effect.html
A French law banning facial veils in
public places goes into effect April 11, with women clad in
burqas with their faces covered risking a 150-euro ($214) fine
and mandatory lessons on being French.  “No one is allowed to wear a garment that hides the face
in public places,”  the law , passed in October, proclaims. It
will soon be splashed on billboards across  France . The
government has created a website entitled the  “Unmasked Face,” 
for details on the law, with brochures in English and Arabic to
be made available for tourists at French consulates.  The burqa ban concludes efforts by the government of
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to bar what he told parliament two
years ago was a sign of “servitude” that isn’t “welcome on
French soil.”  Sarkozy’s ruling party  also began this week a
controversial debate on challenges posed by Islam to a 1905
constitutional law on secularism in France, home to  Europe ’s
largest Muslim population.  The enactment of the law and the opening of the secularism
debate come a year before French presidential elections, with a
survey by BVA showing late last month that Sarkozy doesn’t have
enough support to make it through to the second round of the
vote. In canton elections last month, the far-right, anti-
immigrant politician Marine Le Pen’s National Front made gains,
winning the presidency of two districts.  “With presidential elections next year, the government is
laying bait to lure far-right votes,” said  Laurent Dubois , a
professor at the Institute of Political Studies in Paris. “The
burqa is something most French find shocking, and the secular
state is dear to the French. It’s a bit of a desperate tactic.”  Ban Logistics  The ban on face veils will apply in the streets, in post
offices, cinemas, restaurants, public transport, beaches,
gardens and any other public space. It won’t apply in homes,
hotel rooms, at work, in cars and near religious venues.  According to the French Interior Ministry, about 1,900
women wear full facial veils that are referred to in France as
burqas even though the ones worn in the country are technically
“niqabs,” which cover the face and not the whole body.  A person breaching the law will, in addition to being
fined, undergo a “citizenship” class, learning about French
customs and ways.  Police officers won’t be able to remove the veil or the
garment hiding the offender’s face; the woman will have to
remove it herself. If the person declines to do so, she will
have to go to the police station to prove her identity.  ‘Prayer in the Streets’  Another Muslim practice in France set to come under
scrutiny is Friday prayers in the streets in some neighborhoods,
Interior Minister Claude Gueant said in an interview with Le
Figaro magazine to appear April 10. The issue was first raised
by Le Pen.  “In a few months, there will no longer be prayers in the
streets of France,” Gueant said, adding that other alternatives
will need to be found while Muslims wait for the construction of
more mosques.  He also said France will increase the expulsion of
undocumented aliens and reduce the number of legal immigrants it
admits each year. Gueant’s comments followed his remarks this
week that the 1905 secularism law was put in place when “there
were very few Muslims in France.” With the number now at
between 5 million and 10 million, France -- with a population of
about 65 million -- may need to add some clauses to the law, he
said. “The increase in the number of followers and certain
behaviors cause problems,” he said.  Human rights groups, Muslim associations, and some deputies
in Sarkozy’s own majority party have been critical of Gueant’s
remarks. The opposition Socialist Party yesterday denounced the
comments as a “provocation.”  Support Base  “The (burqa) law, the debate on secularism, which is in
fact really about Islam, and then Gueant’s words shows that
Sarkozy sees a problem in Islam and in immigration,” said
Emmanuel Riviere, a pollster at the Paris-based institute TNS-
Sofres, “Addressing the issue is a direct call to his core
voters, those of the 2007 election: elderly people,
conservatives and far-right voters he had managed to rally.”  TNS-Sofres and Le Figaro magazine’s March 31 poll showed
Sarkozy added 2 points to his popularity rating to 23 percent
from a record low, gaining support among elderly people.  Still, “Sarkozy’s popularity is so low that the current
speeches on Islam and immigration won’t have a long-term
effect,” Riviere said. “The focus fails to address what maybe
is the core concern for French people: prices, unemployment,
health, social security.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 Hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 