-- 
HTC Market Value Passes Nokia as Smartphones ‘Change Mindsets’

-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 
2011-04-07T07:46:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/htc-surpasses-nokia-s-market-value-as-smartphones-drive-profit.html
HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest
maker of smartphones, passed  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ’s market value as
consumers switch to more powerful, feature-rich phones at the
expense of the Finnish maker’s simpler models.  The 5.3 percent gain of HTC shares in Taipei trading
yesterday took the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company’s market value
to $33.8 billion, exceeding the $33.6 billion value of its
competitor. Nokia climbed 1.1 percent to 6.26 euros. HTC shares
closed unchanged today.  HTC stock tripled in the past year as smartphone shipments
grew at more than twice the pace of the wider market for mobile
handsets. Nokia shares slumped 19 percent this year as
competition for basic phones intensified and the company’s
Symbian operating system for high-end models lost ground to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iOS and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android.  “Smartphones have changed the mindset of consumers,” said
Jeff Pu, who rates HTC “buy” at Fubon Financial Holdings in
Taipei. “Previously people went into a store and asked for
Nokia or LG. Now they ask for Apple and HTC.”  Smartphone Growth  Global shipments of smartphones climbed 72 percent last
year, more than double the 32 percent growth in the wider mobile
devices market, researcher Gartner Inc. said in a Feb. 9
 statement . Smartphones accounted for 19 percent of shipments for
the year, it said.  HTC’s 33 percent surge in market value this year means it
now lags behind only Apple, maker of the iPhone and iOS
operating system, and Samsung Electronics Co., which uses both
Android and Windows in its handsets, among smartphone
manufacturers.  Nokia’s market share dropped to 28.9 percent last year from
36.4 percent in 2009 because of stiffer competition in low-end
phones and the failure to match rivals’ offerings of high-end
phones, Gartner said. Nokia maintained the overall lead, selling
461 million units in 2010. HTC sold 24.7 million devices for the
year, Gartner said.  Smartphones, which command a higher price and wider margins
than normal phones, accounted for 23 percent of Nokia’s
shipments in the fourth quarter, according to estimates from
Credit Insights Inc.  Debt Rating  Standard & Poor’s  on March 30 cut its debt rating on Nokia
for the first time. “High competitive pressure” will push the
operating margin on Nokia phones lower in the next two years as
it makes “further significant market share losses,” S&P said
at the time.  HTC’s operating margin, which measures the percentage of
sales less the cost of manufacturing and sales, was 16 percent
in the quarter ended Dec. 31. Nokia’s was 7 percent. Of 36
analyst recommendations compiled by Bloomberg, 29 say investors
should buy HTC shares while none say sell. Nokia has 23 “sell”
ratings and 19 “buy” recommendations.  Nokia in February announced it would adopt Microsoft’s
Windows platform as its primary operating system for phones,
helping it cut its $4 billion budget for research and
development in its devices division.  As Nokia moves into Windows models, HTC’s growth will be
driven by its Android handsets, Fubon’s Pu said. Global
smartphone shipments will climb 50 percent this year and Android
will become the leading operating system for the devices, ahead
of  Research in Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s BlackBerry and Apple’s iOs, IDC
said in a March 29  statement .  At NT$1,200 per share, HTC’s stock is the most expensive in
the Taiwan market. Pu today raised his price estimate on the
stock for the tenth time in the past year to NT$1,500, citing
continued sales and shipment growth.  “Most clients agree with our view that the smartphone
growth story is intact for 2011,” Richard Ko, a Taipei-based
analyst at KGI Securities Co. wrote in a report yesterday,
citing conversations with the brokerage’s customers in  Hong Kong 
and  Singapore . “Investors we spoke with generally agree that
HTC’s 2011 shipments will outperform the industry by a
significant margin.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 