-- 
Canada February Building Permits Report (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-04-07T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/canada-february-building-permits-report-text-.html
Following is the text of the
February building permits report from  Statistics Canada .  Municipalities issued building permits worth $5.8
billion in February, up 9.9% from January. The February
advance was a result of gains in the non-residential
sector in Alberta and Ontario, which more than offset the
decline in the residential sector.  In the non-residential sector, the value of permits
totalled $2.8 billion in February, up 72.9% compared with
January. Alberta and Ontario accounted for much of the
growth at the national level. In February, five other
provinces also posted gains in the non-residential sector.  In contrast, the value of residential permits fell
18.3% to $3.0 billion in February. The decrease was
attributable to both multi-family and single-family
dwellings. Ontario and Quebec registered the largest
declines.  Non-residential sector: Gains in all three components  Industrial construction intentions increased to a
record $884.4 million in February. The gain occurred as a
result of higher construction intentions for
transportation-related buildings in  Alberta  and
manufacturing plants in Ontario.  In the institutional component, the value of permits
issued by municipalities doubled to $702 million,
following four consecutive monthly declines. The increase
in February came from seven provinces, led by Ontario. The
gain in Ontario was attributable to higher construction
intentions for government administrative buildings.  In the commercial component, the value of permits rose
22.6% to $1.2 billion. The gain in February followed three
consecutive monthly declines. In February, seven provinces
contributed to the increase, through various types of
buildings, including hotels, retail stores and warehouses.  Residential sector: Declines in single-family and multi-
family dwelling intentions  Construction intentions for multi-family dwellings fell
34.4% to $892 million in February. This was the first time
in a year that the value of multi-family permits fell
below the billion-dollar mark. The decline was
attributable to decreases in five provinces, particularly
Ontario and  Quebec .  The value of building permits for single-family
dwellings fell 8.6% to $2.1 billion, following three
consecutive monthly gains. The February decrease was a
result of declines in six provinces, led by Ontario,
Quebec and Alberta.  At the national level, municipalities approved the
construction of 13,488 new dwellings in February, down
24.6%. The decrease was largely attributable to multi-
family dwellings, which fell 36.6% to 6,690 units. Single-
family dwellings declined 7.3% to 6,798 units.  Value of permits up in half the provinces  In February, the value of building permits was up in
five provinces, led by Alberta.  Alberta posted large gains as a result of increases in
permits for the industrial, commercial and institutional
components. British Columbia, Manitoba and Prince  Edward
Island  also recorded increases in February, as a result of
higher values of building permits in the non-residential
sector.  The largest decreases occurred in Quebec and Ontario.
The decline was attributable to permits for both multi-
family and single-family dwellings.  Higher permit values in most census metropolitan areas  The total value of permits was up in 23 of the 34
census metropolitan areas in  Canada .  The non-residential sector was responsible for
increases in Calgary,  London , Kitchener-Cambridge-Waterloo
and Edmonton.  The largest declines were in  Montreal , Toronto, Regina
and Ottawa. In Montreal, the decrease was primarily a
result of a decline in multi-family and non-residential
permits, which had posted a significant increase in
January. In Toronto, the decline was mainly attributable
to a drop in the residential sector, which more than
offset the gain in the non-residential sector. In Regina
and Ottawa, the decrease came from both the residential
and non-residential sectors, following large gains in
January.  Note to readers  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by
removing the effects of seasonal variations.  The Building Permits Survey covers 2,400 municipalities
representing 95% of the population. It provides an early
indication of building activity.  The communities representing the other 5% of the
population are very small, and their levels of building
activity have little impact on the total.  The value of planned construction activities shown in
this release excludes engineering projects (for example,
waterworks, sewers or culverts) and land.  For the purpose of this release, the census
metropolitan area of Ottawa-Gatineau (Ontario/Quebec) is
divided into two areas: Gatineau part and Ottawa part.  Revision  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated
for the previous month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  