-- 
CANADA DAYBOOK: Election Campaigning, Monthly Building Permits

-- B y   S t e f a n i e   B a t c h o - L i n o
-- 
2011-04-07T05:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/canada-daybook-election-campaigning-monthly-building-permits.html
Canada ’s finances are threatened by
a “spending disease” in which health-care bills may account
for about one in every five dollars spent in the economy in 20
years, former central bank chief  David Dodge  said in a research
paper.  WHAT TO WATCH:
Campaigning for the May 2 federal election continues. Prime
Minister Stephen Harper, in Markham, Ontario, promised loans to
help recent immigrants have their foreign credentials recognized
in Canada. Liberal Leader  Michael Ignatieff  toured through rural
Quebec.  ECONOMY:
*Statistics Canada publishes its  building permits  report for
February and will also publish its annual review of
international trade for 2010. Both are set to be released at
8:30 a.m. Permits probably rose 1.3 percent, based on a
Bloomberg survey.  EVENTS:
*Dollarama Inc., Canada’s largest chain of dollar stores, is
scheduled to report fourth-quarter earnings and to hold a
conference call to discuss its results at 10:30 a.m.
*Electronics maker  Gennum Corp. (GND)  is scheduled to hold a
conference call to discuss first-quarter financial results at 8
a.m. in Burlington, Ontario.
*Pharmaceutical developer ProMetic Life Sciences Inc. is
scheduled to hold a conference call to discuss fourth-quarter
financial results at 10:30 a.m. in Mount Royal, Quebec.
*Amerix Precious Metals Corp. will hold a special meeting of the
shareholders at the offices of Wildeboer Dellelce LLP, Suite
800, Wildeboer Dellelce Place, 365 Bay Street, Toronto, Ontario
at 2 p.m.  MARKETS:
*The S&P/TSX fell for the first day in seven sessions, losing
67.8 points, or 0.5 percent, to 14202.65.
*Yields on two-year Government of Canada bonds rose two basis
points to 1.89 percent yesterday in Toronto.
*The Canadian dollar strengthened to 96.07 cents per  U.S.
dollar . One Canadian dollar buys $1.04.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefanie Batcho-Lino in Toronto at 
 Sbatcholino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 