-- 
Candidates to Host 2018 Winter Olympics State Cases to Sports Officials

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-04-07T16:55:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/candidates-to-host-2018-winter-olympics-state-cases-to-sports-officials.html
Two-time Olympic figure-skating
champion Katarina Witt, Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger and
taekwondo gold medalist Dae Sung Moon were among those today
backing the cities bidding to host the 2018  Winter Games .  Witt was part of the bid delegation for Munich; Wenger
supported Annecy,  France ; and Dae helped a presentation for
Pyeongchang,  South Korea , at the  Sport Accord  conference in
London which attracted hundreds of sports organizations and 40
members of the  International Olympic Committee  (IOC).  The three cities will officially brief the IOC next month
in Lausanne,  Switzerland . IOC members will then vote on the 2018
host on July 6 in Durban,  South Africa .  Munich 2018 would deliver “the ultimate athlete
experience,” Witt, who has spearheaded the Bavarian bid since
last year, told the audience.  The skating star danced on stage during the presentation,
which centered on  Germany ’s passion for winter sports, a promise
of full stadiums and strong support from the country’s
businesses. She was joined by German interior minister Hans- Peter Friedrich and BMW board member  Ian Robertson .  Pyeongchang is considered the favorite by Gamesbids.com, a
website that follows the selection process, because of its
appeal to the Asian market. It’s bidding for the third straight
time after losing on the 2010 and 2014 Winter Games, which went
to Vancouver and Sochi,  Russia .  “Pyeongchang has been preparing for this moment for
years,” said Dae, a member of the IOC and the 2004 Olympic
taekwondo champion.  ‘Authenticity’  Hosting the Games in the French alpine town of Annecy,
initially considered an outsider partly because of low public
support, is all about “authenticity and innovation,” French
sports minister Chantal Jouanno said in an interview today.  Arsenal manager Wenger agreed.  “It is very good, dynamic, very modern, very engaging and
I like the idea it’s supported by all the great sports people we
have in the country,” the Frenchman said in an interview after
the presentations.  A small group of protesters had demonstrated against the
Annecy bid at the  London  conference earlier in the week, arguing
the event may hurt the environment of the Haute-Savoie region.
The Munich bid has also faced some opposition with Garmisch-
Partenkirchen, which may host the alpine skiing events, holding
a referendum next month.  Jouanno said she is drawing on her career as a national
karate champion as France tries to land its first Winter Games
since the 1992 Albertville Olympics.  “If you want to climb a mountain, you can climb it,”
Jouanno said. “This is same thing for everything, for this
candidacy, for this bid.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  