-- 
Cerberus, Centerbridge Said to Be Bidding for Citigroup Unit

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-04-08T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/cerberus-centerbridge-are-said-to-be-bidders-for-citigroup-s-onemain-unit.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP and
Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC are among firms bidding for
 Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s U.S. consumer-lending unit, said three people
with knowledge of the matter.  Cerberus and Centerbridge are competing with at least three
other parties for the Baltimore-based OneMain Financial unit,
previously known as CitiFinancial, said the people, who declined
to be identified because the matter is private. A group that
included Warburg Pincus LLC withdrew from the process, one
person said.  Citigroup Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54,
started an auction for OneMain this year after tagging the
business for sale in 2009 as part of a strategy to offload $600
billion of the New York-based bank’s unwanted assets. About $13
billion of OneMain assets are included in the auction, people
with knowledge of the matter said last month. The book value of
the business is about $2 billion, net of liabilities, they said.  Spokesmen for Cerberus and Centerbridge declined to
comment.  Cerberus, led by founder  Stephen Feinberg , recently hired
former Lightyear Capital LLC dealmaker David Glenn to pursue
financial-services acquisitions.  Robert Willumstad, 65, Citigroup’s former president, is
leading a separate bidding group through his Brysam Global
Partners, people familiar with the matter said last month. That
group includes  Blackstone Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle Group , Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP and WL Ross & Co., according to the people.  Apollo Management   Private-equity firms Apollo Management LP and J.C. Flowers
& Co. also are working on a joint bid, the people said. Apollo
is already in the mortgage business -- a part of the OneMain
portfolio -- through its 2008 investment in Vantium Capital,
which buys residential mortgage assets.  Another bidding group includes Clayton, Dubilier & Rice LLC
and Toronto-based  Onex Corp. (OCX) , the people said.  OneMain lends money for purposes including auto and
appliance repair, medical bills and remodeling kitchens,
according to its website. Before the unit was rebranded in
December, the website carried the tagline: “Money for life’s
emergencies or just fun.” This has since been changed to
“money for life’s emergencies,”  Mark Rodgers , a Citigroup
spokesman, said in an e-mail.  OneMain, which  traces  its roots to the founding of
Commercial Credit in 1912, has posted $1.3 billion in pretax
losses since the second quarter of 2009, according to a
Citigroup presentation. The unit’s customers struggle to get
loans elsewhere, Pandit said during a July conference call.  ‘Last Ones Standing’  “We’re one of the last ones standing to serve an entire
clientele that really doesn’t have access to those products and
services,” Pandit said at the time. “This is a clientele which
is going to need credit and our services. They don’t have places
to go.”  Banks are paring consumer-lending operations as the
businesses, which cater to middle- and low-income customers, may
draw more scrutiny from regulators, said Lawrence D. Kaplan, a
Washington-based attorney with Paul, Hastings, Janofsky & Walker
LLP.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-biggest U.S. lender by
assets, said last year it would cut 3,800 jobs and shut its
consumer-finance branch network.  “Banks are clearly examining how to restructure their
businesses to avoid potential additional regulation by the new
consumer protection agency and weighing whether to exit
activities that are on regulators’ radar, which is spurring some
of these asset sales,” Kaplan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net 
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 