-- 
China Pledges Long-Term Profit for Electricity Producers

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-07T13:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/china-pledges-long-term-profit-for-electricity-producers-1-.html
China aims to guarantee long-term
profitability for the nation’s electricity generators with
planned changes to the government’s power-pricing mechanism,
China National Radio reported today, citing Peng Sen, vice
chairman of the National Development and Reform Commission.  The changes will happen “gradually,” Peng was cited as
saying at an internal government meeting today in the northern
city of Tianjin.  Huaneng Power International Inc. (902) , China’s largest
electricity producer listed in Hong Kong, last month reported
earnings that missed estimates after coal costs rose while
electricity prices were frozen.  The country will also “further optimize” the pricing
system for gasoline and diesel before 2015 and adjustments will
be made to the pricing of natural gas, water and electricity
from renewable sources, the radio station reported.  In the short term, the Chinese government is confident of
limiting the impact of “imported inflation,” such as higher
crude oil prices, on the nation’s consumer prices, the official
Xinhua News Agency cited Peng as saying in a separate report.  China’s domestic oil refineries are currently making losses
even though the gasoline and diesel prices have been increased,
according to Peng.  China  has “contingency plans” to limit the
impact of potentially-higher crude prices, Xinhua cited Peng as
saying.  China’s domestic market is currently “adequately
supplied” and prices are “basically stable,” according to
Xinhua. China’s consumer price inflation will be “higher at the
beginning, stable in the middle and lower towards the end,” of
this year, Peng was quoted as saying.  -Wang Ying in Beijing. Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ying Wang in Beijing at 
 ywang30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Gordon at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  