-- 
China Vanke Shares Rise on March Sales, Goldman Sachs's Industry Upgrade

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-07T08:10:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/china-vanke-shares-rise-on-march-sales-goldman-sachs-s-industry-upgrade.html
China  Vanke Co., the nation’s biggest
publicly traded developer, jumped to the highest in more than
four months after saying March sales climbed and Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. told investors to buy Chinese property stocks.  Vanke jumped 2.4 percent to 9.15 yuan as of 3:00 p.m. local
close in Shenzhen trading, the highest close since Nov. 11.
Vanke’s contracted sales rose 48 percent in March to 9.3 billion
yuan ($1.4 billion) from a year earlier, and more than doubled
to 35.5 billion yuan in the first quarter, according to an e-
mail statement from the company late yesterday.  China’s policy “will move to weaker tightening, as
measures aiming to curb inflation and cool the  property market 
have already started to work,” Goldman Sachs analysts led by
Hanfeng Wang and Helen Zhu wrote in a report today.  The Chinese government earlier intensified efforts to curb
speculation after prices gained for 19 consecutive months to
December and climbed in 68 of the 70 cities it monitored in the
first two months this year. Vanke said that while overall sales
increased, those in 14 major cities including Shanghai, Beijing
and Guangzhou, usual targets for speculators, declined 37
percent, adding to signs the measures are working.  About 40 Chinese cities including Shanghai said last month
they will cap new  home prices  below annual economic and
disposable per-capita income growth after local governments were
ordered to submit price control targets by the end of March.  “Property curbs are already showing a clear impact on the
market with a sharp slowdown in transactions,” Tan Huajie,
Vanke’s board secretary, said in the statement. “Quick sales
strategy could help offset market fluctuation.”  Property sales were traditionally stronger in March
compared with February, with businesses shut for at least a week
during the Lunar New Year holiday.  China should expand limits on home purchases from large
cities to the entire nation in a bid to curb speculation, the
State Information Center’s economic forecast department said in
a report published in China Securities Journal newspaper today.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in  Shanghai  at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  