-- 
Cisco Default Swaps Climb as Chambers Vows to Rectify Mistakes

-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 
2011-04-07T21:15:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/cisco-default-swaps-climb-as-chambers-vows-to-rectify-mistakes.html
The cost to protect debt issued by
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  climbed as Chief Executive  John Chambers 
reiterated that the largest maker of networking equipment needs
to make a “major change” to rectify management mistakes.  The company must take “bold steps,” Chambers said today
during a conference sponsored by Wells Fargo & Co. Credit-
default swaps on  San Jose , California-based Cisco’s debt rose
1.8 basis points to 64.3 basis points, the highest since Aug.
31, according to data provider CMA.  Chambers wrote in an April 4 memo to staff that he will
make several “targeted moves” in the coming weeks to restore
lost credibility and sharpen the company’s focus. Its shares
have declined 11.5 percent so far this year, compared with a 5.3
percent gain in Juniper Networks Inc.  “You’re talking about a business with $40 billion of cash
on hand and high single-A ratings where the stock has been a
huge laggard,” said Joel Levington, managing director of
Brookfield Investment Management Inc. in New York. “Certainly a
set of shareholders are not happy and are starting to get more
vocal about it. You don’t see that in IBM. You don’t see that in
Oracle.”  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  has gained 12 percent
this year, and Oracle Corp. has risen 7.7 percent.  Cisco’s lagging share price means there is “event risk”
that it may take such an action as repurchasing shares, which
typically erodes balance sheets, Levington said. The company is
rated A1 by Moody’s Investors Service and A+ by  Standard &
Poor’s .  Index Rises  The cost of protecting corporate bonds from default in the
U.S. jumped as a magnitude 7.4 earthquake shook  Japan  less than
a month after the nation’s worst temblor on record.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses on corporate debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 0.8 basis point to a
mid-price of 93.6 basis points as of 5:12 p.m. in  New York ,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  “Given the lack of understanding at this point what
today’s quake really means, risk sentiment soured following the
news,”  Adrian Miller , fixed-income strategist at Miller Tabak
Roberts Securities LLC in New York, said in an e-mail.  The credit swaps index, which typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves, was at the
lowest level since March 18.  Japan Quake  The earthquake hit 215 miles northeast of Tokyo, the U.S.
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration said in an e-
mailed preliminary earthquake report, spurring concern that
Japan will be hindered in its efforts to recover from a March 11
quake and tsunami that damaged nuclear reactors north of  Tokyo .  The price of Markit’s CDX North America High Yield Index,
which rises as investor confidence improves, fell 0.1 percentage
point today to 102.8 percent of face value.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  