-- 
Cloud Shift Threatens Traditional U.S. Contractors’ Business

-- B y   J u l i a n n   F r a n c i s
-- 
2011-04-07T21:28:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/cloud-shift-threatens-traditional-u-s-contractors-business.html
Companies that provide traditional
technology services for the U.S. government are trying to figure
out how to retain their federal business as agencies shift
computing operations to so-called cloud providers.  “Contractors are starting to scramble around this,” Jerry
Horton, chief information officer at the  U.S. Agency for
International Development , said today at a cloud-computing
conference in Gaithersburg, Maryland.  Established vendors are concerned about losing work as
agencies move operations such as websites and financial
management systems to cloud providers, which operate shared
pools of computing resources including servers and data storage.
Companies such as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , and
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  have won government cloud
contracts.  Veteran technology contractors, which Horton did not
identify, have not been able to compete on price with cloud
providers such as Google Inc., which offers a cloud-based e-mail
service, Horton said. “I’m a bottom line kind of guy,” he
said.  In its first cloud implementations, which included moving
the agency’s e-mail system to Google and using conferencing
software from  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) , USAID estimates it will save
at least $25 million a year, Horton said.  Most of the savings from using the cloud come from reducing
the number of information-technology employees at an agency,
according to a 2010 study by Darrell M. West, director of
governance studies at the  Brookings Institution  in  Washington .  “If organizations are able to downsize their IT
departments based on cloud migration, it increases their cost
savings,” West wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juliann Neher in Washington at 
 jfrancis31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  