-- 
Comverse Technology to Pay $2.8 Million to Settle U.S. Bribery Allegations

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 
2011-04-07T17:58:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/comverse-technology-to-pay-2-8-million-to-settle-u-s-bribery-allegations.html
Comverse Technology Inc. (CMVT) , a maker of
voice-mail software, agreed to pay a total of $2.8 million in
settlements for violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The company, based in New York, settled with the U.S.
 Securities and Exchange Commission  for $1.6 million and with the
U.S.  Justice Department  for $1.2 million, according to separate
statements by the government.  “The agreement recognizes the company’s thorough self-
investigation and the results of its investigation, voluntary
disclosure of the underlying conduct and full cooperation with
the department,” the Justice Department said in its statement.  Comverse said last month that Chief Executive Officer Andre Dahan will depart, citing the need for new leadership after a
period of financial restatements and a  stock options  backdating
scandal that led to federal charges against his predecessor.  Paul D. Baker, a spokesman for Comverse, declined to
comment.  The FCPA violations arose from $536,000 in improper
payments made from 2003 to 2005 to individuals connected to OTE,
a unit of Athens-based  Hellenic Telecommunications Organization
SA (HTO) , to obtain purchase orders, according to the Justice
Department, citing a non-prosecution agreement.  The payments were inaccurately characterized as legitimate
commissions on the books of a Comverse unit in Tel Aviv,
according to the statement.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Comverse Technology Inc., 11-cv-01704, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn,  New York , at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  