-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Rises for Second Consecutive Week

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-07T20:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-rises-for-second-consecutive-week-on-job-outlook.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S. rose
for a second consecutive week as an improving job market helped
ease the burden of higher fuel costs.  The Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort Index  climbed to minus 44.5
in the period ended April 3 from minus 46.9 the prior week. A
measure of Americans’ views of their own finances increased to
the second-highest level since January 2010, while a gauge of
perceptions of the economy advanced from a two-year low.  The lowest jobless rate since 2009 and rising stock values
are combining to take some of the sting out of gasoline prices,
which have climbed to the highest level in more than two years.
At the same time, the threat remains that companies will pass
mounting raw-material costs along to customers, which may hurt
household spending on other goods and services.  “This is a forward-looking signal of an improving labor
market,”  John Herrmann , a senior fixed-income strategist at
State Street Global Markets in  Boston . “The pickup in jobs and
ongoing improvement in the equity market is bolstering
confidence.”  Another report today showed fewer Americans filed first-
time claims for  unemployment insurance  last week, indicating the
labor-market recovery is being sustained. Applications for
jobless benefits fell 10,000 in the week ended April 2 to
382,000, the fewest since Feb. 26, according to the Labor
Department.  Interest-Rate Worriers  Stocks fell after another earthquake shook  Japan  and
growing concern over the possible shutdown of the federal
government. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index decreased 0.2
percent to 1,333.51 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York .  Treasury
securities  were little changed.  The Bloomberg Comfort Index, with records dating back to
December 1985, has moved up from an eight-month low of minus
48.9 reached in the period ended March 20. Readings averaged
minus 45.7 last year.  The gauge remains “deeply distressed” even as it’s “off
the floor,” said  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the index for
Bloomberg.  The measure of personal finances rose to minus 0.9 from
minus 1.1, the report showed. Fifty percent of those polled held
positive views on their financial situation, the same as the
previous week, and 3 points better than the average this year.  Buying Climate  The buying-climate index increased to minus 50 from minus
53.1. Those saying it was a good time to buy needed items rose
to 25 percent from 23 percent.  Consumers’ views on the economy turned less negative,
rising to minus 82.5 last week from minus 86.5. The share of
households with a positive view of the economy increased to 9
percent, while 91 percent viewed the economy as “poor” or
“not so good.”  “Given the frequency with which most Americans pull over
to fill the tank, consumer confidence customarily falls when gas
prices rise,” Langer said in a statement. “Like dueling
fighters, an improving employment picture is duking it out with
rising gasoline prices for the hearts of American consumers --
with the better news winning the last two rounds.”  Americans with full-time jobs as well as people who were
unemployed turned more optimistic last week. The confidence
among those working a complete day climbed for the first time
since the end of February.  Job Market  The jobless rate fell to 8.8 percent last month from 8.9
percent in February and private employers hired 230,000 workers,
capping the strongest two-month gain since 2006, the Labor
Department reported April 1.  Rising stock prices are also boosting confidence. The  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  has climbed 7.3 percent this year
through yesterday.  The gains may be helping shore up sentiment among those
better off. Confidence among people making more than $100,000 a
year, those most likely to own equities, rose for the first time
in a month.  At the same time, falling home values may be keeping
sentiment depressed. Residential real estate prices dropped in
the 12 months ended January by the most in more than a year. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 3.1
percent from January 2010, the group said March 29.  Raising Prices  Higher costs for fuel and other commodities are prompting
some manufacturers to raise prices. The average cost of regular
gasoline at the pump was $3.71 a gallon on April 5, the highest
since September 2008, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring organization.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. automaker, this
week raised prices by $117, or 0.4 percent, per vehicle because
of higher costs for raw materials such as steel.  “We’re responding to higher commodity prices, and this is
in keeping with what we’re seeing from our competitors,” said
Todd Nissen, a company spokesman.  The Bloomberg Comfort Index fell to a record low of minus
54 in November 2008, during the height of the financial panic,
while the peak of 38 was reached in January 2000.  The measure is based on responses to telephone interviews
with a random sample of 1,000 consumers aged 18 and over. Each
week, 250 respondents are asked for their views on the economy,
personal finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  