-- 
Consumer Comfort in U.S. Climbs for Second Consecutive Week

-- B y  
-- 
2011-04-07T14:29:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/consumer-comfort-in-u-s-climbs-for-second-consecutive-week.html

Press Release  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index Was Minus 44.5 in the
Period to April 3  NEW YORK --  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. rose for a second
consecutive week as an improving job market helped ease the
burden of higher fuel costs.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus 44.5 in the
period ended April 3 from minus 46.9 the prior week. A measure
of Americans’ views of their own finances increased to the
second-highest level since January 2010, while a gauge of
perceptions of the economy advanced from a two-year low.  The lowest jobless rate since 2009 and rising stock values are
combining to take some of the sting out of gasoline prices,
which have climbed to the highest level in more than two years.
At the same time, the threat remains that companies will pass
mounting raw-material costs along to customers, which may hurt
household spending on other goods and services.  For full CCI results, see:  http://www.bloomberg.com/cci   “Optimism over the gradual improvement in the labor market and
difficulty in adjusting to rising fuel and food costs will
likely continue to be the primary centrifugal forces driving
changes in sentiment,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist
at Bloomberg LP in  New York . “There is a risk that the gains in
sentiment over the past two weeks will be reversed as the cost
of commodities and energy are partially passed through
downstream.”  The Bloomberg Comfort Index, with records dating back to
December 1985, has moved up from an eight-month low of minus
48.9 reached in the period ended March 20. Readings averaged
minus 45.7 last year.  The gauge remains “deeply distressed” even as it’s “off the
floor,” said  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
Associates LLC in  New York , which compiles the index for
Bloomberg.  The measure of personal finances rose to minus 0.9 from minus
1.1, the report showed. Fifty percent of those polled held
positive views on their financial situation, the same as the
previous week, and 3 points better than the average this year.  The buying-climate index increased to minus 50 from minus 53.1.
Those saying it was a good time to buy needed items rose to 25
percent from 23 percent.  Consumers’ views on the economy turned less negative, rising to
minus 82.5 last week from minus 86.5. The share of households
with a positive view of the economy increased to 9 percent,
while 91 percent viewed the economy as “poor” or “not so good.”  “Given the frequency with which most Americans pull over to fill
the tank, consumer confidence customarily falls when gas prices
rise,” Langer said in a statement. “Like dueling fighters, an
improving employment picture is duking it out with rising
gasoline prices for the hearts of American consumers -- with the
better news winning the last two rounds.”  Americans with full-time jobs as well as people who were
unemployed turned more optimistic last week. The confidence
among those working a complete day climbed for the first time
since the end of February.  The jobless rate fell to 8.8 percent last month from 8.9 percent
in February and private employers hired 230,000 workers, capping
the strongest two-month gain since 2006, the Labor Department
reported April 1.  Fewer Americans filed first-time claims for  unemployment
insurance  last week, indicating the labor-market recovery is
being sustained, figures today from the Labor Department showed.
Applications for jobless benefits fell 10,000 in the week ended
April 2 to 382,000, the fewest since Feb. 26.  Rising stock prices are also boosting confidence. The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  has climbed 7.3 percent this year through
yesterday.  The gains may be helping shore up sentiment among those better
off. Confidence among people making more than $100,000 a year,
those most likely to own equities, rose for the first time in a
month.  At the same time, falling home values may be keeping sentiment
depressed. Residential real estate prices dropped in the 12
months ended January by the most in more than a year. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities fell 3.1
percent from January 2010, the group said March 29.  Higher costs for fuel and other commodities are prompting some
manufacturers to raise prices. The average cost of regular
gasoline at the pump was $3.71 a gallon on April 5, the highest
since September 2008, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring organization.  Ford Motor Co., the second-largest U.S. automaker, this week
raised prices by $117, or 0.4 percent, per vehicle because of
higher costs for raw materials such as steel.  “We’re responding to higher commodity prices, and this is in
keeping with what we’re seeing from our competitors,” said Todd
Nissen, a company spokesman.  The Bloomberg Comfort Index fell to a record low of minus 54 in
November 2008, during the height of the financial panic, while
the peak of 38 was reached in January 2000.  The measure is based on responses to telephone interviews with a
random sample of 1,000 consumers aged 18 and over. Each week,
250 respondents are asked for their views on the economy,
personal finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science Research
Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  Contact for Bloomberg:  Meghan Womack, +1 212-617-8514,  mwomack4@bloomberg.net 
