-- 
CWG’s Long-Range Outlook Predicts Cooling Across U.S. North

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-07T13:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/cooling-across-northern-u-s-in-cwg-s-11-to-15-day-outlook.html
Forecasters agree widespread cooling
will probably take hold across the northern U.S. in two weeks,
while differing slightly on how extensive it will be.  Commodity Weather Group LLC ’s 11- to 15-day outlook
forecasts cooling from the Pacific Northwest to northern  New
England  with a dip into the Great Plains that reaches as far
south as Missouri, according to  Matt Rogers , company president.  MDA EarthSat Weather shows a similar cooling pattern.
However, in its outlook the lower temperatures go only as far
east as the eastern Great Lakes and as far south as Chicago.  Rogers also predicts that an area of warmer air may take
hold in the Southwest and southern  California  from April 17 to
April 21. MDA calls for the warm area to extend into Louisiana.  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for potential impact on planting
and yields.  New York ’s average temperature in mid-April is about 51
degrees Fahrenheit (11 degrees Celsius), according to
 Gaithersburg, Maryland-based MDA . In  St. Louis  it is about 55;
in Boston, 48; in Philadelphia, 51; in Atlanta, 61; and in
Dallas, 65, according to MDA.  Shorter-Term Outlook  MDA’s 6- to 10-day outlook says the probability of warming
exists from southern California across the South and then up the
Eastern Seaboard into New England and the Canadian Maritimes.  CWG’s 6- to 10-day outlook shows an area from Texas to New
England that will probably be warmer than normal for this time
of year, according to Rogers in Bethesda, Maryland. The
exception is a pocket in the Gulf states from  Louisiana  to
Florida that will be near normal.  Cooler air will probably be confined to the Pacific
Northwest and along the Canadian border to North Dakota in the
April 12 to April 16 timeframe, Rogers said. MDA has the cooler
air coming slightly farther to the east into Minnesota.  For the rest of this week, Rogers and MDA are both
forecasting warmer-than-normal conditions over the entire
eastern U.S. from the Great Plains to the Atlantic coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  