-- 
Crude Oil Climbs Above $110 a Barrel in N.Y. on Libya, Middle East Unrest

-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 
2011-04-07T19:40:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/crude-oil-increases-to-a-30-month-high-after-u-s-jobless-claims-decline.html
Crude rose above $110 a barrel for
the first time in 30 months as a fire burned at  Libya ’s Sarir
oilfield, bolstering concern that unrest in North Africa and the
Middle East will spread, curbing shipments.  Futures climbed 1.4 percent after NATO said forces loyal to
 Muammar Qaddafi  caused a fire at the field, according to Al
Arabiya television. The conflict in Libya is currently in a
stalemate, said Army General Carter Ham, the U.S. commander for
Africa. Revolts have led to the overthrow of governments in
Egypt and Tunisia and targeted regimes from Syria to Bahrain.  “The situation in Libya, and issues elsewhere in the
Middle East, offer a chance to buy the rumor,” said  Sarah Emerson , managing director of Energy Security Analysis Inc. in
Wakefield,  Massachusetts . “There’s a tremendous upward momentum
and I see nothing in the near-term to stop the rally.”  Crude oil for May delivery rose $1.47 to $110.30 a barrel
on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange, the highest settlement
since Sept. 22, 2008. Futures are up 28 percent from a year ago.  Brent oil for May settlement increased 37 cents, or 0.3
percent, to end the session at $122.67 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It was the highest settlement
price since Aug. 1, 2008.  Japan Aftershock  Prices briefly slipped after a magnitude-7.1 aftershock,
one of the strongest since the devastating earthquake March 11,
struck Japan today 215 miles (345 kilometers) northeast of
 Tokyo . The quake was measured at a depth of about 25 miles and
occurred at about 11:32 p.m. local time, the U.S. Geological
Survey reported on its website.  The aftershock was the fourth of magnitude-7 or higher
since March 11, according to the Japanese Meteorological Agency.
The largest measured 7.7, about 30 minutes after the record
quake, the agency’s website showed.  “The road to recovery in  Japan  has just become harder,”
said Carl Larry, president of Oil Outlooks & Opinions LLC in
Houston. “Japan doesn’t seem safe and we will see more expats
leaving the country. Economic growth will take another hit,
which is detrimental for demand.”  Abdeljalil Mayuf, a manager of information for the Arabian
Gulf Oil Co., which manages the Sarir field, said the facility
had been attacked by forces loyal to Qaddafi and not by a
British jet, according to Reuters.  “It looks like Qaddafi’s forces are beginning to implement
a scorched-earth policy,” said Phil Flynn, vice president of
research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “Some of our worst fears are
being realized.”  Libyan Output  Libya’s current crude output is between 250,000 barrels and
300,000 barrels a day, all of which goes to domestic refineries
and to meet local consumption,  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of the
state-run National Oil Corp., said in a telephone interview from
Tripoli.  North Atlantic Treaty Organization jets flew 164 missions
over Libya yesterday, including 73 “strike sorties” to engage
possible targets as part of its air campaign, the military
alliance said in a statement posted on its website. Those
numbers compare to 155 missions and 66 strike sorties the
previous day.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will cut
crude-oil loadings for a ninth week as Libyan exports drop,
according to tanker-tracker Oil Movements. The group will ship
22.98 million barrels a day in the four weeks to April 23, down
from 23.36 million barrels in the period ended March 26, the
Halifax, England-based consultant said in a report today.  ‘Worst Possible Scenario’  “The news from Libya, and of a possible stalemate, is the
worst possible scenario for the oil market,” said  John Kilduff ,
a partner at Again Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund
focusing on energy. “It brings back images of the period when
there were sanctions against Saddam Hussein. Iraqi exports were
erratic and the industry declined.”  The  United Nations  imposed sanctions against  Iraq  in 1990
after President Saddam Hussein invaded  Kuwait . They were lifted
in 2003 after a U.S.-led invasion overthrew Hussein’s regime.  Oil also climbed after the U.S. Labor Department said
applications for unemployment insurance declined by 10,000 to
382,000 last week, the fewest since Feb. 26. Economists
projected jobless claims would be little changed at 385,000,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  “We’re continuing to chug ahead after briefly panicking
this morning on the Japanese earthquake,” said  Gene McGillian ,
an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford,
 Connecticut . “The falling jobless numbers are another sign that
the economy is continuing to improve. Worries about the Middle
East and  Nigeria  are also pushing prices higher.”  Nigerian Ballot  Nigeria,  Africa ’s biggest oil producer and most populous
nation, scheduled parliamentary elections for April 9 and an
election for president on April 16. Elections in 2003 and 2007
were marred by violence, voter intimidation and the stuffing of
ballot boxes.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 613,575
contracts as of 3:06 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 522,046
contracts yesterday, 36 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.57 million contracts, the
highest level since March 15.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  