-- 
David Foster Wallace Files Mash Note to IRS in Posthumous Novel

-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/david-foster-wallace-sends-irs-manic-mash-note-in-posthumous-novel-books.html
David Foster Wallace , whose
“ Infinite Jest”  offered readers with literary legs a fictional
Everest in 1996, had been working on another long something
before he killed himself in 2008 at age 46.  That work has now been published. Wallace’s editor, Michael
Pietsch, organized reams of prose into “ The Pale King ,” an
unfinished novel about the  Internal Revenue Service .  Fans of “Infinite Jest” may not be daunted by the
prospect of a fragmentary, inconclusive work. Wallace planned
something structurally similar to “IJ,” “with large portions
of apparently unconnected information presented to the reader
before a main story line begins to make sense,” Pietsch writes
in an introduction.  “ Infinite Jest”  does in fact move among seemingly
disparate narrative lines that eventually connect a tennis
academy, a rehab house, legless Quebec terrorists and a movie
that turns the viewer’s brain into suet.  Over the course of 1,079 pages, “IJ” is tiresome,
exhilarating, ugly, frightening and often wonderfully funny.
Wallace’s gift for language, especially argot of all sorts, his
magical handling of masses of detail -- his nonfiction showed
him to be a tireless if eccentric journalist -- and his bent for
chasing serious themes as entertainingly as possible easily
justified the MacArthur “genius” award he received shortly
after publication and the devoted  fans who populate the Web .  Mushy Brains  These talents are on display again in “The Pale King,”
but in muted form, with far less glee shared by reader and
writer, and yet again with a likely suet theme, as in the
consistency of the brain after working through 10,000 1040 tax
forms.  The inaction takes place in and near a Peoria,  Illinois ,
IRS outpost. We see and hear staffers on their breaks, during
videotaped interviews and in flashbacks to their youth. This
material may explain what sort of person chooses the mind-
numbing paperwork trenches of an IRS career or it may indicate
that any sort of person can have his brain suetized by such
labor.  A young Drew has a poignant scene on a lakeside picnic
bench with a girlfriend heading for an abortion clinic. Cusk
sweats in deluge quantities when stressed, as shown in high
school and in an IRS training session.  One boy is such a do-gooder that his school “principal
fantasizes about sinking a meat hook into Leonard Stecyk’s
bright-eyed little face and dragging the boy face-down behind
his Volkswagen Beetle over the rough new streets of suburban
 Grand Rapids .”  Enter David Wallace  Also on this strange stage is a character variously named
David Foster Wallace, David Wallace (there is a mistaken
identity problem) and “ the author .” He explains that the book
is “a kind of vocational memoir. It is also supposed to
function as a portrait of a bureaucracy.” He is an IRS staffer
who dreams “of becoming an immortally great fiction writer a la
Gaddis.”  Several long sections are vintage Wallace, notably the tale
of a young man who wanders into the wrong college classroom and
is so impressed by an accounting lecture that he trudges through
a Chicago blizzard to an IRS recruiting office and joins up.  Then there’s the 50 pages detailing traffic problems on the
approach road to the IRS outpost in Peoria, whose facade, by the
way, “was some kind of tile or mosaic representation of a blank
IRS 1978 Form 1040, both pages of it, complete in all detail
down to verso Line 31’s slot for the computation of ‘Adjusted
Gross Income’ and recto Line 66’s terminal ‘BALANCE DUE’ box.”  I note the form because yonder looms the deadline for
filing U.S. tax returns.  Heroic Readers  While Wallace posits an IRS seal depicting “the mythic
hero Bellerophon slaying the Chimera,” the real heroes may be
those who survive or succumb to the boredom of wading through
reams of IRS forms to earn their daily crouton. (There are
stretches of tedious prose that can have the effect, whether
intended or not, of making heroes of readers as well.)  Some of the writer’s working notes are appended, and one
describes a narrative arc as “Paying attention, boredom, ADD,
Machines vs. people at performing mindless jobs.” It’s a
monumental ennui here, cataloged in many phrases and images.  For instance, Pam Jensen “had promised herself a bullet in
the roof of her mouth after her 1,500th training presentation.”
Another character learned “about negotiating boredom as one
would a terrain, its levels and forests and endless wastes.”  Yet another staffer waxes eloquent on civic duty and de
Tocqueville and the  Federalist Papers , suggesting that both
paying taxes and collecting them bear real moral freight. The
ambiguity is also vintage Wallace.  “The Pale King” is published by Little, Brown (548 pages,
$27.99). To order the book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 