-- 
Davis Polk & Wardwell's Reid Is Named Managing Partner to Succeed Ettinger

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T19:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/davis-polk-wardwell-s-reid-is-named-managing-partner-to-succeed-ettinger.html
Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP’s new
managing partner, Thomas Reid, has no plans to alter the 160-
year-old New York law firm’s current course of business.  Reid, 46, who succeeds John Ettinger, said the transition
will be seamless as he plans to continue the firm’s focus on
international expansion, financial regulations, white-collar
defense and leveraged-finance deals. Reid will lead the firm
along with John Bick and Carey Dunne, who will respectively head
the firm’s corporate department and litigation practice.  “This really is continuity at work,” Reid said today in a
phone interview. “Across the board, we’re busier at this point
than we’ve been for quite a while.”  Reid, born in Kirkcaldy,  Scotland , joined New York-based
Davis Polk as an associate in 1987 and was elected partner in
1995 working in both the New York and  London  offices. He left
the firm in 2000 for Morgan Stanley’s investment banking
division in London before rejoining in 2003. He led the firm’s
485-lawyer corporate department for the past three years.  Davis Polk was the 26th-largest grossing U.S. firm last
year, with revenue of $846 million, according to the American
Lawyer, a trade magazine.  The firm is among the top 10 U.S. legal advisers for global
corporate deals in the first quarter, the most active in mergers
& acquisitions since 2007, with $42.6 billion in transactions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  GSI Commerce Sale  The firm advised a special committee of  GSI Commerce Inc. (GSIC) ’s
board of directors on its $2.4 billion sale to EBay Inc. and
Bank of America Corp. in Diamond Food Inc.’s $2.35 billion
acquisition of  Procter & Gamble Co .’s Pringles chip operations.  Reid credits the firm’s commitment to its client
relationships for its recent growth. The firm has added more
than 100 lawyers since 2008 when most of its competitors cut
their ranks and sought alternative ways to serve clients.  “We wanted to grow through the crisis, and that’s what we
achieved,” Reid said.  Davis Polk’s  regulatory tracker , which debuted in June, has
signed more than 2,500 subscribers for data related to the Dodd-
Frank financial regulation act, the firm said.  The firm has also stepped up its white-collar defense
practice with clients in  Australia ,  Europe ,  Asia  and Latin
America, Reid said. International expansion will continue in  Sao
Paulo  later this year, following up on additions to its Asia
practice, he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  