-- 
Dell to Double After-Sales Service Centers in China During Next 12 Months

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-07T05:25:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/dell-to-double-china-after-sales-service-centers-to-2-000.html
Dell Inc. (DELL) , the world’s third-largest
personal-computer maker, said it will double the number of
after-sales service centers in  China  in the next 12 months to
meet surging demand.  The number will rise to 2,000, Michael Yang,  Round Rock ,
Texas-based Dell’s president for the greater China region, said
in an interview in Beijing today.  “Our investment is to show our confidence in this market
and show our commitment to the needs of the market,” Yang said.
“We are going to have sustainable growth going forward. The
China market is growing very fast and there is huge potential.”  The company will also add 1,000 sales outlets targeting
small businesses in China in the next year, adding to 9,000
consumer-focused retail stores in the country, Yang said. Fiscal
fourth-quarter sales in China climbed 21 percent, as the company
looks for growth in the emerging economies of  Brazil , Russia,
 India  and China, Dell said in February.  “In China the market is different for consumer needs,” he
said. “In China we have a multi-channel strategy.”  Profit in the quarter exceeded analysts’ estimates after
business customers replaced aging computers and expanded their
data centers. Dell is getting more revenue from products and
services for corporate data centers, part of a plan to double
sales from that business to $30 billion in three years.  Dell rose 2.4 percent to $14.78 in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading yesterday. The stock has gained 9.1 percent this year.  The company ranked third in the PC industry by shipments in
the fourth quarter of 2010, after Hewlett-Packard Co. and Acer
Inc., according to Gartner Inc., a Stamford, Connecticut-based
research firm.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  