-- 
Deutsche Bank Traders in U.S. Said to Leave Amid Pay Shift

-- B y   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n ,   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r   a n d   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 
2011-04-07T13:34:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/deutsche-bank-debt-traders-in-u-s-said-to-depart-amid-deferred-pay-shift.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  lost at least six
debt traders in New York this year, including two of its most
profitable, after becoming the first foreign firm to rank No. 1
in a survey of U.S. fixed-income dealers.  Departures include Thomas Curran and Prakash Narayanan, who
together earned as much as $800 million for  Germany ’s biggest
bank in the past two years, people with direct knowledge of the
situation said, declining to be identified because the changes
aren’t public. Some moves are being driven by a shift in pay
practices, with at least eight others also leaving the broader
U.S. fixed-income group, the people said.  The exits strike at a division that Anshu Jain, 48, head of
the firm’s corporate and investment bank, relied on last year
for 9.74 billion euros ($13.9 billion) in revenue from trading
debt and other products. Some employees left because the
Frankfurt-based bank is increasingly deferring compensation,
making it subject to forfeiture if employees leave to work
elsewhere, people familiar with the decisions said.  “For those who can make the transition to a firm that’s
more entrepreneurial, they will do it,” said Richard Lipstein,
a managing director at headhunter Boyden Global Executive
Search. Two traders generating $800 million for a bank over that
period would put them “among the top players of their game,”
he said.  Deutsche Bank’s corporate and  investment banking  division
generated 39.7 billion euros of revenue over the past two years,
or about 2.64 million euros ($3.77 million) per employee,
according to data compiled from a March 15  financial statement .
The number of people at the unit rose to 15,943 in 2010 from
14,191 the prior year, the statement shows.  ‘Up, Not Down’  Curran is joining hedge fund Rose Grove Capital Management
LLC and Narayanan, 31, who headed leveraged finance trading in
 North America , is going to Saba Capital Management LP. Other
departures came from the division’s credit- and interest-rates
sales desks, and structured-debt and asset-backed-securities
groups. The head of the bank’s U.S. private institutional-client
group also resigned this week.  “Our U.S. staffing numbers are up, not down,” Michele Allison, a Deutsche Bank spokeswoman in  New York , said in a
statement. “Almost 1,400, not 14, colleagues in the U.S.
contributed to the bank’s achievement of No. 1 in fixed income.
It was a collective effort.”  ‘Increase Significantly’  The company is adapting its compensation following global
regulatory pressure to curb quick rewards generated by risking a
bank’s own money. The Financial Stability Board, which includes
watchdogs and finance ministries from the Group of 20 nations,
in 2009 blamed “generous bonus payments” for creating an
environment of “employees without adequate regard to the
longer-term risks they imposed on their firms.”  Deutsche Bank increased the deferred share of bonuses to 49
percent for its 81,702 employees, according to the company’s
 2010  remuneration report, which the bank publishes to adhere to
stricter regulatory requirements.  Under new rules, Deutsche Bank published pay for so-called
“regulated employees,” or 168 people whose work has a “major
influence” on overall risks at the firm, such as top managers,
division executives and certain investment bankers.  That group earned 655.7 million euros last year, 82 percent
of it in deferred payments. The corporate and investment bank
had 129 employees who received a total of 536.2 million euros,
including 494.5 million euros in bonuses.  Encourage Traders  Deferring compensation can encourage traders to quit
immediately if they aren’t certain they’ll stay for many years.
Employees who build up large amounts of deferred cash and equity
typically are forced to leave money behind if they decide to
work elsewhere, even if they aren’t joining a competitor, people
familiar with Deutsche Bank’s practices said.  Deutsche Bank beat New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to
capture 12.8 percent of the U.S. fixed-income market in a
Greenwich Associates survey in August, 11 years after buying
Bankers Trust Corp. for about $9 billion. At the time, it was
the biggest foreign takeover of a U.S. bank.  Jain, a former fixed-income derivatives salesman, helped
the bank rise from third in Greenwich’s 2009 survey. The firm
ranks fourth in underwriting high-yield bonds in the U.S. this
year and seventh in arranging investment-grade company debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Biggest Market’  “Deutsche Bank has built up a strong global fixed-income
business and the U.S., as the biggest market for investment
banking, is an important part of this,” said  Dirk Becker , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets, who has a
“strong buy” recommendation on the shares.  Fixed-income sales and trading is Deutsche Bank’s biggest
revenue contributor, accounting for 34 percent of overall sales
in 2010. The Americas, primarily the U.S., accounted for 31
percent of total revenue at the corporate and investment bank,
compared with 39 percent in  Europe , the Middle East and  Africa .  Curran, who traded distressed financial debt, generated
more than $500 million for the bank during the past two years as
credit markets sprung back to life from the financial crisis,
according to three people with knowledge of his performance.
Narayanan is joining the $2.7 billion investment firm started by
former Deutsche Bank credit trader Boaz Weinstein.  The gain in market share is making Deutsche Bank the target
of rival dealers.  Craig Napoliello, a director who traded credit-default-swap
indexes, left to become an investment-grade corporate-credit
trader at  Citigroup Inc. (C) , according to two people familiar with
the move. Sean Feeney, a vice president in investment-grade
credit trading, left about three weeks ago to join Zurich-based
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , two people with knowledge of the
situation said.  BofA, Jefferies  Michael Lattarulo, a vice president who traded financial-
company debt, left to join the credit-trading desk at  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , according to two
people familiar with the matter. Sean George, a managing
director for U.S. corporate bonds and credit-default swaps, left
Deutsche Bank to join New York-based  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)   Employees leaving the bank didn’t respond to messages
seeking comment, said they couldn’t comment, or couldn’t be
located by Bloomberg News.  The bank has lost employees from other fixed-income areas.  Rebecca Parekh, a director who heads the U.S. private
institutional client group, resigned this week to start a
nonprofit foundation, one of the people said. Deutsche Bank’s
Allison said Parekh is still an employee.  Recent Departures  Amy Jo Pitts, a director in the group that originates
asset-backed securities, left last month to join New York-based
Citigroup. Dan King, a managing director on Deutsche Bank’s
interest-rates sales desk, and Harsh Jaggi, a managing director
in structured products, also resigned, the people said.  Credit salespeople Patricia McKeon, a vice president based
in  Boston , Joshua McGee, a director in  Chicago , Eric Eiseman, a
vice president in New York and Mike Henry, a director in New
York, have resigned, the people said.  The recent departures occurred after Greg Lippmann, who
gained fame for his bets against subprime-mortgage securities
before the housing collapse, left the bank last year to start
investment firm LibreMax Capital LLC with Fred Brettschneider,
the German bank’s former head of global markets in the Americas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  