-- 
DHL Says Africa Road Strategy Expected to Aid Growth

-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 
2011-04-08T08:34:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/dhl-says-pan-africa-road-strategy-asian-trade-to-boost-growth.html
(Corrects company division in first paragraph of story
published on April 7.)  DHL Global Forwarding, a unit of
Deutsche Post DHL, plans to introduce a pan-African road-freight
service to tap into accelerating  consumer spending  on the
continent.  The so-called Africa Connect unit will have hubs in east,
west and southern Africa and will seek to accelerate the inter-
regional movement of goods, Amadou Diallo, chief executive
officer for Africa and South Asia-Pacific, said yesterday in an
interview in Nairobi, the Kenyan capital.  “Road is much faster,” as it will avoid congestion at
ports on the continent, Diallo said.  African economies grew an average of 4.9 percent between
2000 and 2008, while foreign direct investment in the continent
increased to $62 billion from $9 billion over the same period,
according to a DHL statement. Consumer spending on the continent
grew 16 percent between 2005 and 2008, it said.  “A significant amount of growth in our business is
resulting from small and medium enterprises,” Diallo said in
the statement. “This group is going to be one of DHL’s main
focal points as we look at how we can help these companies
expand beyond current limits.”  DHL’s East African hub, based in  Mombasa , Kenya, has been
operational for two years and will now include Dar es Salaam,
the commercial capital of neighboring Tanzania. A road linking
Morocco, Mauritania, Senegal and Mali will cater for the western
Africa hub, while Johannesburg and Cape Town in  South Africa 
will service the southern region, he said.  DHL is also counting on growing trade volume between Africa
and  India  and  China  to increase its revenue on the continent,
Diallo said. The company established an India desk in 21 nations
and plans to set up four more this year in Senegal, Mexico,
Colombia and Netherlands. The desks comprises DHL staff
providing Indian investors with information on doing business in
the host countries, he said  “What we are trying to do is link  Asia  with  Africa ,” he
added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net  