-- 
Djiboutian President Expected to Win Third Term After Opposition Crackdown

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T07:51:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/djiboutian-president-expected-to-win-third-term-after-opposition-crackdown.html
Djiboutian President Ismael Guelleh
will probably win a third term in an election tomorrow following
a crackdown on the opposition that advocacy groups say may
undermine the credibility of the vote.  Guelleh’s only challenger will be Mohamed Warsama Ragueh,
the former head of the country’s Constitutional Council whose
candidacy was backed five days ago by an opposition coalition
known as the Union for a Democratic Movement. Opponents of
Guelleh had all previously said they would boycott the vote.  “It’s an interesting development, but the power of the
incumbent is great,” said Chris Hennemeyer of  Democracy
International , a U.S.-based advocacy group ordered by the
Djiboutian government to leave last month. “I think the outcome
is fairly obvious.”  Guelleh has led Djibouti, which hosts the only U.S.
military base in Africa, since 1999. The 63-year-old leader
succeeded his uncle Hassan Gouled Aptidon, who was the country’s
first president after it gained independence from  France  in
1977. In March 2010, Guelleh amended the constitution to allow
him to extend his rule by two more six-year terms.  Djibouti, a Horn of Africa nation of 516,000 people, has a
$982 million economy that relies on services related to its
strategic location on the  Red Sea , one of the world’s busiest
shipping lanes, according to the U.S. State Department. France
has around 3,000 troops stationed in the country, which is
smaller than the U.S. state of  Massachusetts .  ‘Trouble-Makers’  Violence broke out at an opposition rally near the city’s
Hassan Guled stadium on Feb. 18 when security forces broke up a
demonstration that the government said was hijacked by “trouble-
makers.” A policeman died and nine other people were injured in
the clashes, according to the government. Last month, four
opposition leaders were detained while trying to lead another
protest against Guelleh’s rule.  “The government has trampled on those very rights that make
a vote free and fair,” Rona Peligal, deputy  Africa  director at
 Human Rights Watch , the U.S.-based advocacy group, said in a
statement on April 5.  Ragueh has called for changes to the judicial system,
investment in education and a reduced role for the ruling party
in the economy, while Guelleh is relying on his track record of
economic stability to secure him another six-year term. The
economy has expanded every year since at least 2002 and growth
is forecast to accelerate to 5.4 percent this year from 4.5
percent in 2010, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  Ragueh said he has the support of 80 percent of Djibouti’s
people.  Kingdom  “All of them are hoping for change,” he said in a phone
interview from Djibouti City, the capital. “For 33 years, the
same family led this country and the people are fed up. We are
supposed to be a republic, but in fact we are a kingdom.”  The partnership between Ragueh and the opposition will lead
to a “big victory,” Mohamed Daoud Chehem, a UDM leader, said in
a phone interview from the northern city Tadjourah on April 5.  About 152,000 people are registered to vote in the
election, according to Interior Minister Yacin Elmi Bouh.  “We are organized, we are ready,” he said in a phone
interview yesterday. “We have a long tradition of elections.”  Polling stations are scheduled to open at 6 a.m. for 12
hours and observers from the U.S. Embassy, the  African Union  and
the  Arab League  have been invited to monitor the vote,
Hennemeyer said. The government’s plan to announce initial
results within 48 hours “is virtually impossible,” he said. “It
will provide evidence that it is a done deal.”  Asked to Leave  Democracy International was ejected after it helped
“facilitate” the February protest, Bouh said. “It was not in
their framework and the government decided to ask them to
leave.”  The Bethesda, Maryland-based group was eight months into a
two-year, $2.2 million program funded by the U.S. Agency for
International Development. The protests in Djibouti coincided
with similar demonstrations across North Africa and the Middle
East that led to the resignation of the presidents of Tunisia
and  Egypt  and a civil war in  Libya .  “We were very even-handed,” Hennemeyer said. “The only
conclusion I can draw is that the turnout at the Feb. 18
demonstration combined with the unrest in the region sent cold
shivers down the collective spine of the government. I think
it’s a real setback. The trend is toward greater democracy.
Djibouti ignores it at its peril.”  Djibouti ranks 148th out of 169 countries in the United
Nations Development Program’s  Human Development Index , which
measures  life expectancy , education and  living standards .  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in  Addis Ababa  via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 