-- 
U.S. Tax Officials Seek HSBC India Offshore Account Information in Probe

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/doj-asks-court-to-allow-irs-to-seek-hsbc-india-bank-records.html
An investigation of  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  by U.S. tax authorities was stepped up with the government’s
request seeking authorization to pursue information on thousands
of Americans who may have used accounts in India to evade taxes.  The  Internal Revenue Service  asked a U.S. judge in Oakland,
 California , for permission to serve a so-called John Doe summons
to get information about Americans using HSBC’s Non-Resident
Indians, or NRI, services. The IRS cited the Jan. 26 indictment
of client Vaibhav Dahake, who is accused of conspiring with five
HSBC bankers to hide Indian accounts from U.S. tax authorities.  “It is not only reasonable to believe, it is abundantly
clear that thousands of other NRI clients in the  United States 
may have failed to meet their obligations to disclose those
accounts - and pay tax on the income,” Justice Department
attorney Stuart Gibson wrote in court papers filed yesterday.  The request signals a sharp increase in U.S. pressure on
HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank by market value, to cooperate in a
widening probe of offshore  tax evasion . UBS AG, the largest
Swiss bank, avoided U.S. prosecution in 2009 by paying
$780 million, admitting it helped Americans evade taxes and
disclosing data to the IRS on account holders.  “While we haven’t seen the summons, HSBC does not condone
tax evasion and fully supports the U.S. efforts to promote
appropriate payment of taxes,” Juanita Gutierrez, a bank
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “While complying with the law
in all the jurisdictions in which it operates, including  India ,
HSBC cooperates with request from U.S. authorities.”  ‘Constructive Dialogue’  Gutierrez said the bank has been “engaged in a
constructive dialogue with U.S. authorities” and hopes the John
Does summons matter “can be resolved expeditiously.”  The IRS seeks data from HSBC USA about accounts holders at
HSBC India from 2002 to 2010. Through September, about 9,000
U.S. residents were “Premier” clients with NRI deposits of
$100,000 or more at HSBC India, and only 1,391 had disclosed
their accounts to the U.S. in 2009, according to a court filing
by Daniel Reeves, who runs the IRS Offshore Compliance
Initiatives Program.  Through December 2009, Premier clients had NRI deposits of
almost $400 million, Reeves wrote.  Reeves said the bank helped clients conceal accounts from
the IRS through a number of NRI services, citing the Dahake
case. His indictment alleges that HSBC bankers said that with an
Indian account, no U.S. forms were required, he didn’t have to
furnish a social security number, and no Form 1099 reporting the
interest income would be filed with the IRS.  Secret Assets  Dahake is scheduled to plead guilty on April 11 in federal
court in Trenton, New Jersey, court records show.  The U.S. had filed a similar summons in the UBS case. The
UBS case helped prompt more than 18,000 Americans to avoid
prosecution by revealing their secret offshore assets to the
IRS, agency Commissioner Douglas Shulman said April 6 at the
 National Press Club  in  Washington . The IRS is using those
disclosures to learn about banks, advisers and tax evasion, he
said.  “We’re using that data to then pursue the next wave,”
Shulman said. “This is a multiyear effort. It’s not going to
stop.”  Dahake attorney Lawrence Horn said the HSBC John Doe
summons case may serve to draw more people into another
voluntary disclosure program that the IRS is offering. He said
that if the summons is granted and HSBC complies, “there’s a
great likelihood” that the IRS will get the taxpayer names it
seeks.  Voluntary Disclosure  Those HSBC clients will then have to choose whether to risk
prosecution by doing nothing or enter the voluntary disclosure
program, said Horn, of Sills Cummis & Gross in  Newark ,  New
Jersey .  In his filing, Reeves said IRS agents interviewed HSBC
India clients. They said NRI representatives told them that if
they opened HSBC India accounts, they would not have to pay U.S.
income tax on interest earned, and that the bank would not tell
the IRS about them. The clients had deposits at HSBC India
ranging from several hundred thousand dollars to more than $1
million, Reeves wrote.  Last year, Congress imposed new requirements on foreign
banks with U.S. accountholders. The disclosure rules, which take
effect in 2013, banks based outside the United States face 30
percent withholding on certain payments from within the U.S. if
they do not share certain information with the IRS.  The case is In the Matter of the Tax Liabilities of  John
Does , 11-cv-01686, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  