-- 
French Upstart Rebuffs Veteran Drugmakers Sniffing Around Heart Remedy

-- B y   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 
2011-04-07T23:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/drug-veterans-court-french-upstart-with-plaque-attack-remedy.html
Drugmakers desperate for innovative
medicines are courting a tiny French company whose lab holds a
product that may transform the treatment of heart attacks.  Cerenis Therapeutics SA , a closely held company, is testing
a compound in a new class of drugs that mimic high-density
lipoprotein, also known as good  cholesterol , to purge arteries
clogged by plaque.  Cerenis is the brainchild of Jean-Louis Dasseux, a
biochemist who spent the past 25 years studying HDL’s ability to
ferry fatty substances away from artery walls. His most advanced
medicine, dubbed CER-001, last month entered mid-level clinical
trials. Cerenis is overseeing the tests, having turned down
collaboration offers from bigger drugmakers.  “If it works, this will be huge,” said Denis Lucquin,
managing partner and chairman of  Sofinnova Partners , a venture
capital firm that owns a stake in Cerenis. “Lots of
pharmaceutical companies are sniffing around.”  Some of the suitors were among the world’s largest
drugmakers, Dasseux said in an interview in Paris. Three
approached Cerenis with a written proposal, he said. He declined
to name the companies, as did Lucquin.  Dasseux figures Cerenis will be on firmer footing to
negotiate a deal or sell shares if it can show its way of
imitating the body’s purging mechanism works to combat
cardiovascular disease, the world’s biggest killer. When fatty
substances coat the arteries, a process called  atherosclerosis ,
they narrow the passage and pieces of the plaque lining can come
loose, interrupting blood flow to the brain or the heart.  Options Open  “We think we can go a lot further with this product,” the
52-year-old executive said in an interview over a cup of
espresso at Cafe de la Paix, near the Paris Opera house. “At
the end of the phase 2, if we have  plaque  regression, this will
be a major event. There won’t be too many difficulties at that
point to raise funds, either through a stock market listing,
private financing, or through partnerships and alliances.”  Dasseux estimates the drug could reach pharmacy shelves in
2017 as a temporary medicine to avert repeat heart attacks and
stroke, and fetch between $5 billion and $8 billion in sales
annually by 2020 or 2021 in that indication. He figures the mid-
stage tests will be over by the end of next year.  Cerenis said last month it began testing CER-001 on more
than 500 people in the U.S.,  Canada  and  Europe  in the second of
three stages of research needed for approval to sell a drug. The
researchers are trying to show that taking six infusions of the
man-made protein over five weeks after a heart attack or stroke
will raise the number of HDL particles in the blood, reducing
the risk of another incident, Dasseux said.  Fatty Harvest  An early clinical test designed to check the drug’s safety
on 32 volunteers also showed  cholesterol  moving away from the
artery walls. The compound mimics the most efficient good-
cholesterol particles, small discs known as nascent HDL that
swirl around in the bloodstream, harvesting fatty deposits from
within the artery wall. As the discs swell with the lipid load,
they turn into a more mature form of HDL that the liver can
recognize, ensuring the fatty harvest gets recycled or
eliminated by the body.  The rewards may be big. Worldwide sales in the cholesterol
market topped $35 billion in 2009, according to the research
firm IMS Health Inc.  Atherosclerosis  is the main cause of
cardiovascular disease, which may kill 23.6 million people a
year by 2030 by  World Health Organization  estimates.  If CER-001 can reverse the buildup of plaque, “this could
change the paradigm for the treatment of atherosclerosis,” said
Jean-Claude Tardif, director of the research center at the
 Montreal Heart Institute . Tardif is the lead investigator for
the mid-stage clinical tests.  ‘Next Big Thing’  Dasseux, a biochemist with an MBA from the  University of
Michigan , founded Cerenis in 2005 to develop compounds inspired
by HDL’s mechanism after working on a rougher version at another
startup, Esperion Therapeutics Inc. Esperion was bought by
 Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  for $1.3 billion in 2004. The maker of the best-
selling pill Lipitor has since cut back on cholesterol research
and the Dasseux compound’s development was dropped in 2008.  Still, Cerenis isn’t the only one pursuing HDL. After years
spent working on drugs that reduced so-called bad cholesterol,
drugmakers including Merck & Co. are investigating ways to boost
the good type instead.  “HDL is the next big thing” in the field of cholesterol
research, Les Funtleyder, a health-care portfolio manager at
Miller Tabak & Co. in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  Merck is developing anacetrapib, an experimental medicine
in the final stages of testing billed as a potential blockbuster
after data presented in November showed it could boost good
cholesterol by an unprecedented 138 percent.  Repeat Risk  Dasseux says Cerenis won’t compete with anacetrapib or a
rival product by  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  called dalcetrapib because
they work differently, targeting a protein that helps good
cholesterol go bad. Also, his drug targets patients who, in the
weeks after having suffered a heart attack or stroke, must avert
another.  People who survive a heart attack face the greatest risk of
dying from sudden cardiac death during the first month after
leaving the hospital, according to a study by the  Mayo Clinic .  After a few weeks, patients will probably stop using CER-
001 and turn to other drugs to prevent further cholesterol
accumulation, according to Dasseux.  Aside from Sofinnova, Cerenis  investors  include  HealthCap ,
 Alta Partners , TVM Capital, EDF Ventures,  OrbiMed  and Daiwa
Corporate Investment. The company last year  raised 50 million
euros  ($71 million) to fund CER-001’s development. It has enough
cash until the beginning of 2014, according to Dasseux.  Crowded Field  Cerenis, based in Toulouse,  France , and  Ann Arbor ,
 Michigan , in July added former  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  Chief
Executive Jean-Pierre Garnier to its board. The company is also
studying CER-001 for the treatment of a genetic disorder
characterized by high cholesterol, a rare disease that Dasseux
says may warrant an accelerated regulatory review, and has five
other HDL therapies in its  labs .  The medicine, if it works in combination with other heart
drugs, may become “a multi-billion-dollar treatment,” said
Funtleyder of Miller Tabak.  Others are more sceptical because the anti-cholesterol
market is getting crowded, experienced drugmakers like Pfizer
have stumbled and the Cerenis medicine is only just entering
mid-stage tests.  “It’s much too early to assess the likelihood of
success,”  Steven Nissen , head of cardiology at the  Cleveland
Clinic  in  Ohio , said in e-mailed comments. The field “is
getting more crowded. Cerenis will need strong Phase 2 data to
stay competitive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Albertina Torsoli in Paris at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  