-- 
ECB Raises Rates for First Time Since 2008 as Inflation Looms

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-04-07T12:49:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ecb-raises-rates-for-first-time-in-almost-three-years-to-stifle-inflation.html
European Central Bank President
 Jean-Claude Trichet  said the bank will continue to monitor
inflation risks “very closely” after raising  interest rates 
today for the first time in almost three years.  Monetary policy  remains “accommodative,” Trichet said at
a press conference in Frankfurt today after the ECB raised its
benchmark rate by a quarter percentage point to 1.25 percent.
“It is essential that recent price developments do not give
rise to broad-based inflationary pressures over the medium
term.”  Investors are betting on two more increases to 1.75 percent
by the end of the year as inflation accelerates and Germany’s
economy booms. The risk is that higher borrowing costs may boost
the euro and exacerbate the sovereign debt crisis, which last
night forced Portugal to follow Greece and Ireland in seeking a
European Union bailout.  The ECB joins  China , India, Poland and Sweden in raising
interest rates even as the  Federal Reserve  remains reluctant to
tighten amid divisions among its policy makers.  Today’s ECB rate increase is the first since July 2008 and
also the first time in 40 years that Europe’s benchmark has
risen before the U.S. equivalent.  The central bank’s primary concern is tackling inflation,
which breached its 2 percent limit in December and accelerated
to 2.6 percent last month, the fastest pace in more than two
years.  While policy makers acknowledge that surging energy and
food prices are largely to blame, they’re worried that workers
will demand higher wages in compensation, entrenching faster
inflation.  The ECB has repeatedly been forced to delay the withdrawal
of emergency policy settings put in place during the global
financial crisis as  Europe ’s debt woes threatened to tear the
17-nation currency bloc apart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  