-- 
ECB Raises Key Interest Rate to 1.25% to Stem Faster Inflation

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-04-07T11:56:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ecb-raises-key-interest-rate-to-1-25-to-stem-faster-inflation.html
The  European Central Bank  lifted
interest rates for the first time in almost three years to quell
inflation even as Portugal became the third nation to succumb to
the region’s sovereign debt crisis.  ECB policy makers meeting in Frankfurt today raised the
benchmark interest rate to 1.25 percent from a record low of 1
percent, as predicted by all 57 economists in a Bloomberg News
survey. It also raised the marginal lending rate to 2 percent
from 1.75 percent and increased the deposit rate to 0.5 percent
from 0.25 percent, maintaining 75 basis-point corridors either
side of the benchmark.  While ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said last month
that a move today is “certainly not the start of a series,”
investors expect two more increases to 1.75 percent by the end
of the year as inflation accelerates and Germany’s economy
booms. The risk is that higher borrowing costs may boost the
euro and exacerbate the sovereign debt crisis, which last night
forced Portugal to follow Greece and Ireland in seeking a
European Union bailout.  “The ECB has decided that it will tighten policy for the
core countries like Germany that are doing well and leave the
non-standard measures support in place for the periphery
countries,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in London. “The rate increase is appropriate
and there will be another one as early as June.”  Press Conference  The euro eased to $1.4270 after the decision from $1.4281
beforehand. Trichet holds a press conference at 2:30 p.m. in
Frankfurt. Separately, the  Bank of England  kept its key rate at
0.5 percent and the  Bank of Japan  held its benchmark at 0.1
percent.  The ECB is joining  China ,  India , Poland and  Sweden  in
raising interest rates even as the  Federal Reserve  remains
reluctant to tighten amid divisions among its policy makers.  Today’s ECB rate increase is the first since July 2008 and
also the first time in 40 years that  Europe ’s benchmark has
risen before the U.S. equivalent.  The ECB has repeatedly been forced to delay the withdrawal
of emergency policy settings put in place during the global
financial crisis as Europe’s debt woes threatened to tear the
17-nation currency bloc apart.  While nations such as Ireland and  Spain  are still buckling
under debt burdens and burst property bubbles,  Germany ’s economy
last year expanded 3.6 percent, the most since reunification two
decades ago, and on aggregate the region has returned to health.  Euro-area growth will average 1.7 percent this year and 1.8
percent in 2012, according to ECB forecasts.  Inflation  The central bank’s primary concern is inflation, which
breached its 2 percent limit in December and accelerated to 2.6
percent last month, the fastest pace in more than two years.
Producer prices rose an annual 6.6 percent in February,
increasing pressure on companies to pass on higher costs to
households.  While policy makers acknowledge that surging energy and
food prices are largely to blame, they’re worried that workers
will demand higher wages in compensation, entrenching faster
inflation.  The ECB “will hike twice in quick succession in April and
June to satisfy the core economies’ demand for tighter policy,”
said  Stuart Thomson , a Glasgow-based money manager at Ignis
Asset Management, which oversees about $120 billion. “But the
sensitivity of the peripheral economies to higher rates, both in
terms of overall debt and proportion of consumer loans tied to
variable interest rates, means the central bank will pause over
the summer.”  Home Ownership  Households in debt-stricken economies stand to suffer more
from higher borrowing costs than those in stronger nations. More
than 83 percent of homes in Spain are owned, twice the share in
Germany, and two out of five are burdened with an outstanding
mortgage or housing loan, Eurostat data show.  Variable-rate mortgages account for almost 100 percent of
new lending in  Portugal  and about 85 percent in Spain, compared
with 15 percent in Germany, according to the Brussels-based
European Mortgage Federation. In Ireland, 85 percent of
outstanding loans have flexible rates.  The prospect of higher interest rates may also drive the
euro higher, denting export returns for nations like Germany
which rely on foreign sales to fuel economic growth.  The euro has already appreciated 7 percent against the
dollar this year to more than $1.43 yesterday, a 14-month high.
Euro-area manufacturing growth slowed in March and economic
confidence fell, signaling the recovery in some countries may
have peaked.  Far From Restrictive  Still, the ECB is unlikely to move at a speed that will
choke economic growth, according to Christoph Kind, head of
 asset allocation  at  Frankfurt  Trust, which manages about 16
billion euros ($22.9 billion).  “Even if the ECB hikes as much as expected this year,
inflation rates will remain higher than interest rates,” he
said. “That’s still a far cry from being restrictive.”  The ECB has also said it will keep providing banks with as
much liquidity as they need at least through the second quarter,
and has left its bond-purchase program in place.  When Trichet kicked off the last tightening cycle in
December 2005, he said “we have not taken any ex-ante decision
to embark on a series of interest-rate increases.” The central
bank went on to lift its key rate from 2 percent to 4.25
percent.  This time around, “I don’t think it’s one and done,” said
 David Bloom , global head of currency strategy at HSBC Holdings
Plc in  London . “They will continue to raise rates, but I don’t
think it will be a very aggressive tightening cycle.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  