-- 
EDF, GDF Suez Workers Strike to Keep Heating Bill Subsidies

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-04-07T15:35:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/edf-gdf-suez-workers-strike-to-keep-heating-bill-subsidies.html
Electricite de  France  SA and GDF
Suez SA, the former French power and gas monopolies, were hit by
a nationwide strike today over plans to scale back staff perks
that cost billions of euros.  The strike cut about 9,000 megawatts of power from 12 EDF
nuclear plants, said Laurent Langlard, a member of the CGT
union, the country’s biggest. That represents about 14 percent
of France’s total installed nuclear capacity. About 18,000
megawatts of power output was lost in total.  About 42 percent of EDF employees and 49 percent of GDF
Suez energy workers took part in the strike, the Paris-based
utilities said.  Employees are “very attached” to a heavily-discounted rate
paid for electricity that’s benefited gas and power workers
since before World War II, Langlard said. “EDF wants to scale
back the benefit.” The CGT and other unions will meet tomorrow
to decide what further action to take.  “This strike is incomprehensible,” Bernard Lassus, head
of human resources at EDF, said by telephone from Paris. EDF has
set aside 2.3 billion euros ($3.3 billion) to pay for the
subsidized rates as existing and retired EDF workers pay 5-10
percent of the rate charged to French consumers and aren’t
taxed, he said.  Rate Cap  EDF and GDF Suez are under pressure from the government and
consumer groups to keep energy prices as low as possible. Share
prices of both companies were hurt this week after Prime
Minister Francois Fillon announced a cap on an increase in
regulated electricity rates until after next year’s presidential
elections and froze gas rates for as long as a year.  EDF has proposed that employees should pay taxes on their
utility bills, which can account for almost a third of
consumers’ bills, and that the rate they pay for electricity be
linked to that paid by other households, Lassus said. Employees
and EDF retirees currently pay a fixed rate for electricity.  The utility wants to bring in the changes as a quarter of
its workforce is due to retire in the next five years.  “We aren’t trying to abolish the preferential rates, we
are trying to change them,” Lassus said. The utility last tried
to change the system in 1983 and was hit by a strike.  GDF Suez spokeswoman Armelle Dillar declined to comment on
the proposals.  Industry Minister Eric Besson told RMC Radio today that the
discounted bills for EDF’s current and former employees “weigh
heavily on its costs.”  It’s not “abnormal” to suggest they should face higher
bills, alongside the rest of the country, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  