-- 
Hedge Funds Track Traders as Probe Puts ‘Fear’ in Firms

-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n
-- 
2011-04-07T17:41:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/hedge-funds-track-traders-as-probe-puts-fear-in-firms-1-.html
The U.S. government isn’t the only
one investigating insider trading on  Wall Street . Hedge funds
have joined the hunt.  Some are engaging people like Jeremy Kroll, co-founder of
K2 Global Consulting LLC, a New York-based investigations firm.
Kroll has created software that scrutinizes the personal, social
and business relationships of traders and analysts to help
detect and thwart possible misuse of confidential information.
At least five multibillion-dollar hedge funds have signed on,
said Kroll, who declined to name them.  “Having someone constantly watching over your shoulder
sounds intense, but hedge funds are going to have to take the
Big Brother approach or risk facing possible closure,” said
Matt Simon, a senior analyst at Tabb Group, a financial-services
consulting company in  New York .  In addition to monitoring traders’ personal lives, hedge
funds are holding workshops on  securities law  as they seek to
avoid the fate of five funds that have liquidated since the
October 2009 arrest of Raj Rajaratnam, the fund manager on trial
in New York for insider trading.  Federal authorities raided four hedge funds in November as
part of their investigation and subpoenaed at least five others.
In all, investors have withdrawn at least $9 billion from funds
involved in the probe. The FBI said in February that the
investigation isn’t over and that there will be more arrests.  ‘Nervous Compliance Officers’  “I’m seeing a lot more nervous chief compliance officers
these days,” said Judith Gross, founder of JG Advisory Services
LLC, a New York-based firm that advises hedge funds. “Much more
attention is being paid to the origins of trading ideas.”  In January, the Regulatory Compliance Association hosted a
seminar on  insider trading  that drew 3,800 people, said Walter
Zebrowski, chairman of the New York-based non-profit group.
That’s more than triple the number who registered for an event
on general enforcement issues in 2009, he said.  A conference organized by the association that included a
two-hour session on insider-trading today drew 350 registrants,
including representatives from New York hedge funds D.E. Shaw &
Co., Harbinger Capital Partners LLC and Fortress Investment
Group LLC.  York Capital Management in New York held training sessions
in September with its employees on the use of potential inside
information given by so-called expert-network firms, which
connect industry officials with investors, Mark Schein, chief
compliance officer at the hedge fund, said today at the 
conference.  ‘Hedge Funds Petrified’  Six months after Rajaratnam’s arrest, New York-based
Millennium Management LLC formed an independent Regulatory and
Compliance Advisory Council, which included  Harvey Pitt , the
former chairman of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
according to an April 2010 letter sent to investors. Pitt also
has held workshops with SAC Capital Advisors LP employees about
complying with government rules.  “A lot of hedge funds were petrified after the raids,”
said Don Steinbrugge, managing partner of Agecroft Partners LLC,
a Richmond, Virginia-based firm that advises hedge funds and
investors. “The government has tried to put the fear of god in
hedge funds and succeeded."  K2 Global’s technology maps a spectrum of relationships
such as college classmates, tennis partners and fellow charity
board members to help identify potential connections that may
pose a risk to the firm, Kroll said.  ‘360-Degree Perspective’  It also examines trade, telephone, e-mail and instant-
messaging patterns, as well as electronic calendar entries, and
matches those with information from court filings and news
reports, Kroll said.  ‘‘It’s basically taking a 360-degree perspective,” Kroll
said in a telephone interview. “We go beyond relationships
found on Facebook and LinkedIn. We look at who they know, how
and where they know them from and match that with any anomalous
trades.”  The software doesn’t monitor home telephones and personal
e-mail accounts.  K2 Global turns its findings over to the hedge fund’s
compliance officers and in-house lawyers, who decide what action
to take, he said, adding that they don’t share the information
with the government. Kroll said that not all firms notify their
employees of the surveillance.  ‘Culture of Distrust’  Kroll, whose father, Jules, gained fame for searching out
hidden assets of Ferdinand and Imelda Marcos and  Saddam Hussein 
in the 1990s, said his team came up with the software idea in
November, after the FBI raided four hedge funds. He said mutual
funds and sovereign wealth funds have also signed up for the
service.  Some industry consultants questioned the effectiveness of
such monitoring, saying it was more likely to create distrust
than catch scofflaws.  “I don’t see a mass market for this,” said Finn Christensen, chief executive officer of Risk Insider Inc., a New
York-based firm that advises financial companies on trading and
risk management. “The concept may have some merit but it will
create a culture of distrust and that’s not good for the firm.”  ‘Government Crosshairs’  The case against Rajaratnam, 53, who ran New York-based
Galleon Group LLC, is the first in which the government has
wiretapped telephone conversations to investigate and prosecute
insider trading.  The Sri Lankan-born hedge  fund manager  is accused of making
$45 million from tips leaked by corporate insiders. He denies
wrongdoing, saying his trades were based on research and public
information. Rajaratnam could spend up to 20 years in prison if
convicted of fraud.  The SEC last year set up a unit focused on “identifying
patterns, connections and relationships among traders and
institutions” linked to suspicious trades, Daniel Hawke, chief
of the agency’s market abuse unit, said when the group was
founded in January 2010.  Their market surveillance helped uncover an insider-trading
scheme involving Matthew Kluger, a former Wilson Sonsini
Goodrich & Rosati PC attorney, who was arrested yesterday for
passing on mergers and acquisition data to stock trader Garrett
Bauer. Their scheme netted more than $32 million in illicit
profits, according to U.S. prosecutors.  “Hedge funds have woken up to government efforts and have
stepped up their training on how to deal with possible inside
information,” said Elizabeth Krentzman, chief adviser to
Deloitte LP’s asset-management unit, which advises 1,000 hedge
fund clients said. “Investor trust is their most important
asset and so it hasn’t been easy for them to be in the
government crosshairs.”  Employee Hotline  Three of the four hedge funds raided by the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation  in November -- Level Global Investors LP and
Barai Capital Management LP of New York, and Loch Capital
Management LLC in  Boston  -- have liquidated. Rajaratnam’s
Galleon closed in 2009, as did New Castle Funds LLC.  Diamondback Capital Management LLC’s investors pulled about
$1.32 billion, or 23 percent, from the  Stamford , Connecticut-
based firm following the raid. Balyasny Asset Management LP in
 Chicago , SAC Capital in Stamford, and JAT Capital Management LP
in New York were among the funds subpoenaed, according to people
familiar with the matter. None of the firms have been accused of
wrongdoing.  Corporate Resolutions Inc ., a consulting and investigative
firm in New York, last month started an employee hotline to help
hedge funds deter possible illegal trading. The service, which
is already offered to private-equity firms, enables employees to
anonymously report suspected wrongdoing at their firms.  $2,000 a Year  As many as 50 private-equity clients had signed up for the
service, which costs about $2,000 a year, depending on the
number of employees, according to Joelle Scott, director of
business intelligence at the investigations firm.  The hotline enabled one of Corporate Resolution’s private-
equity clients to identify fraud at one of their portfolio
companies and subsequently fire the management there, said
Scott, who declined to name the firm.  “The hotline saved our client money and gave their
investors comfort,” she said. “It can help hedge funds to take
action before they get a surprise visit from the government.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  