-- 
U.S. Trustee Seeks Information on Lehman Liquidation Plans

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-04-07T21:31:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/lehman-brothers-trustee-seeks-information-on-bankruptcy-liquidation-plans.html
U.S. Trustee Tracy Hope Davis is
seeking access to information provided by  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  and other parties concerning rival $61 billion
plans to liquidate the defunct firm, according to a court filing
yesterday in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan.  The information may be used in civil or criminal law
enforcement matters, wrote Davis, who oversees Lehman’s
bankruptcy, the biggest in U.S. history.  Lehman, which collapsed in 2008 with $613 billion in debt,
is trying to set rules for sharing information among key
creditors and groups of banks and  hedge funds  that have proposed
rival plans, or said they may do so. The so-called discovery
process is intended to provide the parties with evidence on how
Lehman was run as a company, and how it should share an
anticipated $61 billion among creditors.  Lehman should modify its discovery proposals to allow the
trustee to participate “in accordance with her duties and
responsibilities,” Davis said. She told Lehman to delete an
“automatic sealing” provision so that she could review and
object to pleadings or documents filed under seal. They would be
examined for compliance with bankruptcy law, she said.  As drawn up, Lehman’s methods and rules “do not appear to
completely adhere to the requirements of the  Bankruptcy Code ,
Bankruptcy Rules and other applicable non-bankruptcy law,” she
said in the filing. The U.S. Trustee’s Office in  Washington 
oversees bankruptcies nationwide through regional
representatives.  Rival Plan  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, didn’t respond to
an e-mail seeking comment.  A rival plan to liquidate Lehman is on file from
bondholders including Paulson & Co. and the  California Public
Employees’ Retirement System . Yesterday,  Morgan Stanley (MS) , Silver
Point Capital LP and other creditors said they were
“seriously” considering their own plan. More than 10 holders
of derivatives claims against Lehman, including  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , are almost ready to file a rival plan, said two
people familiar with the matter.  These groups are seeking information to back up their
claims that Lehman’s plan would be unfair and possibly not in
compliance with law.  Rival Plans  Lehman has set a schedule for the judge to hear details of
its plan and not rival plans, stirring opposition from the
groups and other creditors who want the judge to assess all the
options at the same time. CarVal Investors UK Ltd., which holds
more than $5 billion in claims against Lehman, said yesterday
that any alternative plans should be heard on the same schedule
as Lehman’s, according to a court filing.  Lehman backed off from an earlier demand that any group
that wants to be heard in court must publicly disclose holdings
of the members. Now, groups need only tell Lehman and an
official creditors committee the value and type of their claims,
it said in a filing yesterday.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  