-- 
Televisa Buys $1.6 Billion 50% Stake in Iusacell to Add Wireless Revenue

-- B y   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T21:41:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/televisa-falls-on-1-6-billion-iusacell-stake-to-add-wireless.html
Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , the world’s
biggest Spanish-language broadcaster, fell the most in almost a
year in Mexico City trading after agreeing to buy a 50 percent
stake in Grupo Iusacell SA for $1.6 billion.  Televisa fell 2.55 pesos, or 4.5 percent, to 54.15 pesos at
4 p.m. New York time. The shares, down 15 percent this year,
suffered their worst three-day drop since November 2008 after
Televisa disclosed talks with Iusacell on April 5.  The purchase gives Televisa a way to offer clients mobile-
phone service in addition to the packages of home-phone,
Internet and TV sold by its Mexican cable units. Iusacell, which
filed for bankruptcy protection last year, gets new funding
after struggling to gain market share against billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s  America Movil  SAB.  Televisa, based in Mexico City, said today it will pay
$1.57 billion for debt convertible into Iusacell equity, plus a
direct payment of $37.5 million. Televisa said it would own 50
percent of Iusacell after the conversion of debt.  The agreement values Iusacell at as much as 18 times
enterprise value divided by its 2011 earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, estimated Tomas Lajous, an analyst at UBS AG, in a research note. Iusacell
delisted its shares last year from Mexico’s stock exchange and
hasn’t published earnings results since 2010’s first quarter.  “We still have some concerns on Televisa wanting to own
equity in mobile,” said Lajous, who is based in  Mexico  City.
The wireless business requires a higher degree of capital
investment than Televisa’s traditional media business, he said.  4 Million Customers  Televisa agreed to pay an additional $400 million to
Iusacell shareholders if Ebitda reaches a cumulative $3.47
billion between January 2011 and Dec. 31, 2015. Iusacell had
Ebitda of about $150 million in 2009, according to Barclays
Capital Plc.  “We’re not paying for the cash flows, so don’t try to look
at this from an Ebitda multiple,” said Carlos Madrazo,
Televisa’s investor relations officer, in a phone interview.
“We’re buying into the spectrum, we’re buying into the network,
we’re buying into the customer base and we’re buying into the
strategic value of this business to us.”  Iusacell has more than 4 million subscribers and its
wireless network covers 70 percent of the market, Televisa said.
That gives it less than 5 percent of the Mexican market, behind
America Movil’s 71 percent and  Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s 21 percent.  Bankruptcy Protection  Iusacell filed for bankruptcy protection after failing to
gain a broader share of the market following billionaire  Ricardo Salinas ’s takeover of the company in 2003. Salinas also controls
TV Azteca SAB, which holds 30 percent of Mexico’s broadcast
television audience, trailing Televisa’s 70 percent.  The control of Mexico’s broadcasting market by those two
companies will give them a platform to advertise Iusacell’s
service. America Movil’s Telefonos de Mexico SAB unit filed an
antitrust complaint last month against Televisa and TV Azteca,
accusing them of monopolistic practices in broadcast
advertising. Televisa and Iusacell have also filed antitrust
complaints against America Movil and Telmex.  Televisa and Iusacell don’t expect Mexico’s antitrust
agency to block the agreement, said Luis Nino, vice chairman of
the banking unit of Grupo Elektra SA, also controlled by
Salinas. The companies haven’t yet solicited approval, an
antitrust official who can’t be named under the agency’s policy
said today.  Increase Competition  “It would be very difficult for a participant that has 4
percent of the market to be limited or stopped on competition
issues,” Nino told reporters today at a conference in  Acapulco ,
Mexico. “What we want is to increase competition.”  Televisa planned to enter Mexico’s mobile-phone market last
year by buying a stake in the local unit of  NII Holdings Inc. (NIHD) ,
the nation’s fourth-biggest carrier, for $1.44 billion. The
company abandoned that plan after Iusacell went to court to
challenge NII’s victory in a government auction of mobile-phone
airwaves.  The extra yield investors demand to buy Televisa dollar
bonds due 2018 instead of similar-maturity securities issued by
the Mexican government climbed to 23 basis points today, the
biggest gap since March 8, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The spread has increased 8 basis points since April
4, the day before Televisa said it was in talks with Iusacell
about a partnership.  Strategy Pondered  “I just don’t know if it’s the best strategy for them
right now,” said Jack Deino, who oversees $1.75 billion in
emerging-market debt at Invesco Advisers Inc. in  New York , in a
phone interview. “They’re paying through the nose and they’re
not even getting full control.”  Televisa’s debt ratings won’t be changed as a result of the
Iusacell agreement,  Fitch Ratings  said today in a statement. The
company’s debt is rated by Fitch at BBB+, or three levels above
investment grade.  “Televisa has the cash on hand to make these investments,
and the current business plan does not contemplate that
additional capital investments will be required,” Madrazo of
Televisa said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jose Enrique Arrioja at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  