-- 
Intersil in Play After Texas-National Semi Takeover: Real M&A

-- B y   I a n   K i n g   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-07T20:18:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/embracing-national-semiconductor-puts-intersil-in-takeover-play-real-m-a.html
Shareholders of  Intersil Corp. (ISIL) , a
maker of chips that regulate power in computers, phones and
industrial machinery, can thank  National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM)  for
suddenly ensuring their year will be lucrative.  Intersil, a direct competitor to National Semiconductor, is
trading at twice the value of its own sales. That’s about half
the industry average and cheaper than National Semiconductor
before it announced a $6.5 billion takeover by  Texas Instruments
Inc. (TXN)  this week, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. While
Intersil’s revenue growth outstripped National Semiconductor’s
over the past five years, a lower operating margin leaves more
room for a buyer to boost profit.  The market for chips that regulate voltage in devices such
as mobile phones and industrial robots has grown 169 percent to
$9.1 billion since 2001, almost double the pace of the broader
semiconductor industry, according to research firm IHS ISuppli.
Investors are speculating  Analog Devices Inc. (ADI)  may buy Intersil,
which has a market value of $1.7 billion, said Tore Svanberg, an
analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in  San Francisco .  “Intersil could be an interesting takeover target on the
heels of the NSM transaction,” said  Dan Veru , chief investment
officer at Palisade Capital Management LLC in Fort Lee,  New
Jersey , which oversees $3.8 billion. “The acquirer could drive
margins higher because of their size and scale and customers
that they do business with.”  Today’s Trading  Brendan Lahiff, a spokesman for Milpitas, California-based
Intersil, declined to comment on speculation. Sue Martenson, a
spokeswoman for Norwood, Massachusetts-based Analog Devices,
also declined to comment.  Intersil climbed 5.4 percent to $14.03 in Nasdaq Stock
Market trading today. The gain was the third-biggest in the
Standard & Poor’s Midcap 400 Index.  The shares gained the most in two years April 5 and 16
percent over the past three days after Texas Instruments agreed
to acquire  Santa Clara , California-based National Semiconductor
for $25 a share. The bid represented a 75 percent premium to
National Semiconductor’s 20-day trading average, the highest for
a chipmaker takeover greater than $500 million since 2000,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “This is going to open up the floodgates,
psychologically,” said Vernon Essi, an analyst at Needham & Co.
in Boston. Intersil is “an interesting target. There’s value
there.”  Relative Value  Intersil sells for 2 times revenue, versus the average of
3.7 times for 42 U.S.-traded semiconductor makers with more than
$500 million in market value, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. National Semiconductor, which had a price-sales ratio
of 2.2 times before Dallas-based Texas Instruments’ takeover
announcement, now trades at 3.7 times, the data show.  National Semiconductor had sales of $1.42 billion in its
fiscal year ended May, a 26 percent decline from five years
earlier, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Intersil reported
revenue of $822 million last year, a 37 percent increase from
2005, the data show. National Semiconductor has been exiting
less profitable businesses, sacrificing revenue, for the sake of
wider margins.  Texas Instruments, the largest maker of analog chips, is
wagering it can reverse National Semiconductor’s revenue slump
with the biggest sales force among chipmakers. Chief Executive
Officer  Rich Templeton , 52, said he will increase revenue at
more than twice the industry rate.  Dishwashers to Cars  Analog semiconductors, which go into everything from
military hardware to washing machines, perform functions such as
power regulation and the conversion of touch and sound into
electronic signals. As more everyday items such as dishwashers
and cars have added electronic functions, older analog
technologies have resurged.  Further deal making may be limited because companies in the
$47 billion analog semiconductor industry make thousands of non-
interchangeable chips. Texas Instruments alone makes about
30,000 different chips.  “Sometimes acquisitions take place because there is a rush
to pick up technology so you don’t get left behind,” said Steve Smigie, an analyst at Raymond James Financial Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida . Given the thousands of different niche
products with a lifespan of up to five years, “it’s not like
not acquiring a company is going to leave an analog company out
of the loop in some major way,” he said.  Power Regulation  The most-coveted area in the analog industry is power
regulation chips, semiconductors that take electricity from
batteries and distribute it according to the different needs of
other components. Revenue for that business, which Intersil and
National Semiconductor both serve, surged 36 percent in 2010,
according to El Segundo, California-based  IHS ISuppli .  A buyer may be able to squeeze more profit out of Intersil
than National Semiconductor by slashing operating expenses,
according to Stifel Nicolaus’ Svanberg. Intersil’s 16 percent
operating margin, or the amount of income made from each dollar
of sales, trailed National Semiconductor’s 24 percent margin in
2010, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The company retained about 58 cents per dollar of revenue
after subtracting the cost of goods sold, a lower gross margin
than National Semiconductor’s 66 percent.  “You’ve got in your deal analysis the ability to expand
margins and make it a more profitable deal,”  Malcolm Polley ,
who oversees $1 billion as chief investment officer at Stewart
Capital in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania , said of Intersil. “It really
comes down to the proof is in the pudding.”  Credit Ratings  Intersil’s management has reduced its dependence on
personal computers -- a lower-margin business. Combining
Intersil with a rival may help its chips win a spot in more
products outside of the PC industry, including initiatives such
as chips that power rear-view cameras in cars, said Chris Caso,
an analyst with Susquehanna International Group in  New York .  Analog Devices, a potential bidder for Intersil, has about
$3 billion in cash and short-term investments and $537.6 million
in total debt. The maker of chips used in cars and consumer
electronics is rated A2, the third-highest level of investment
grade, according to Bloomberg’s Company Credit Ratings.  Adding $1.7 billion to its long-term debt would lower its
ranking three levels to A1, according to Bloomberg’s ratings,
which analyze borrowers based on indebtedness, profitability and
other financial ratios.  Micrel Inc. (MCRL) , a maker of chips for communications equipment,
and  Semtech Corp. (SMTC) , which producers chips for digital cameras,
rallied 7.3 percent and 7.5 percent, respectively, the day after
Texas Instruments’ acquisition. Both may also be potential
takeover targets, said Stifel Nicolaus’ Svanberg.  ‘Ripe for Consolidation’  Julieanne DiBene, a spokeswoman for  San Jose , California-
based Micrel, declined to comment. Pauline Cadena, a spokeswoman
for Camarillo, California-based Semtech, didn’t return a phone
call seeking comment.  “You’ll see more deals. You’ll see a small number of
companies involved,” said Brian Barish, Denver-based president
of Cambiar Investors LLC, which oversees about $8 billion. “The
industrial and analog semiconductor spaces are ripe for
consolidation.”  Barish’s $1.6 billion  Cambiar Opportunity Fund (CAMOX)  has
outperformed 98 percent of rival funds in the past year.  Overall, there have been 6,439 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $651.4 billion, a 27 percent increase from
the $512.6 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 