-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Fall First Time in Eight Days on Valuation Concerns

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-04-07T21:22:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/emerging-market-stocks-slide-for-first-time-in-eight-days-as-buyers-pause.html
Developing-nation stocks declined
for the first time in eight days, pushing the MSCI Emerging
Markets Index down from its highest level since June 2008, on
speculation the gains were overdone.  The gauge slipped 0.1 percent to 1,202.24, halting a seven-
day, 5.7 percent advance. Earlier today the measure lost 0.4
percent. Russia’s Micex Index slid 0.8 percent.  South Africa ’s
main equities gauge also slumped 0.8 percent, and  Mexico ’s IPC
index fell 1 percent.  The MSCI gauge’s relative strength index closed at 76.4
yesterday, above the 70 threshold that suggests an asset will
decline, and slipped to 75.9 today. The  European Central Bank 
raised its benchmark interest rate by 25 basis points, in line
with forecasts by economists.  “Investors are taking a breather following recent strong
gains,” said Chu Moon Sung, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at
Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset Management Co., which oversees $30
billion. “The overall global economic recovery is still on
track.”  Russian stocks fell the most in a week. OAO Lukoil, the
country’s second-biggest oil producer, lost 1.5 percent and OAO
Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel lost 1.7 percent after profit declined
2 percent in the fourth quarter.  ECB policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  raised their
benchmark interest rate to 1.25 percent from a record low of 1
percent, in line with forecasts from all 57 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  left the door
open for further interest-rate increases to tame inflation after
raising borrowing costs for the first time in almost three
years.  U.S. Claims  Emerging equities pared losses after the U.S. Labor
Department said applications for jobless benefits fell 10,000 in
the week ended April 2 to 382,000, the fewest since Feb. 26,
indicating the labor market is recovering. Economists projected
claims would be little changed at 385,000, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index climbed to minus 44.5
in the period ended April 3 from minus 46.9 the prior week.  Brazil ’s real strengthened beyond 1.60 per dollar for the
first time since August 2008 after Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said the appreciation trend is “inevitable” as he
announced a tax on foreign loans to curb the rally. The Bovespa
stock index rose 0.2 percent.  Mexico’s  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO)  slumped 4.5 percent after
agreeing to buy a 50 percent stake in Grupo Iusacell SA for $1.6
billion.  South Korea   South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  fell 0.2 percent, retreating for
a second day after reaching a record high on April 5.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s largest maker of
televisions and flat screens, declined 1.5 percent in Seoul,
capping the biggest two-day drop in a month. The company
reported a 34 percent decline in first-quarter profit today.  Thailand’s SET Index climbed 1.2 percent.  True Corp. Pcl, the operator of Thailand’s third-largest
mobile-phone network, jumped 13 percent on expectations that a
sale of new shares announced on March 28 will help cut debt and
interest costs. The company was raised to “buy” from “hold”
at DBS Vickers Securities (Thailand) Pcl today.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
Middle East and Africa credit-default rose 2 basis point to 182
basis points.  The difference between the return investors demand from
emerging-market bonds and U.S. Treasuries was little changed at
248, according to the JPMorgan Chase EMBI+ Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net  