-- 
Energy Oil Traders Bet Mideast Political Instability Will Last

-- B y   S t a n l e y   R e e d
-- 
2011-04-07T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/energy-oil-traders-bet-mideast-political-instability-will-last.html
The Mideast uprisings and a
recovering world economy have pushed  oil prices  to the highest
levels since 2008: $121 recently for  Brent crude . Yet except for
Libyan crude, which provides 2 percent of world supplies, oil is
flowing unimpeded.  Still, traders are focused on a new perception that an Age
of Uncertainty has arrived in the Mideast that isn’t going away
anytime soon, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its April 11
issue.
Hakan Kocayusufpasaoglu, an oil trader who runs hedge fund
Archbridge Capital in Zug, Switzerland, puts it bluntly: “They
are all failed states,” he says of the oil producers. “I think
there is a decent chance of the contagion spreading.” He says
prices are headed toward $150 a barrel,  Before the uprisings, traders assumed that oil was readily
available from reliable sources. Now the need to replace Libyan
oil, plus fast-rising world demand, has pared OPEC’s spare
capacity to perhaps 3.3 million barrels a day, from around
6 million barrels last year, figures Amrita Sen, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in  London .  Longer-term, leadership changes in  Egypt  and possibly Libya
could mean stiffer financial terms for international oil
companies operating in those countries. Even wealthy states such
as Saudi Arabia, which face no dire threats now, are likely to
find it ever more expensive to satisfy the needs of their
youthful populations.  Balance Budget  Saudi Arabia’s King Abdullah recently promised $150 billion
in new housing, wage increases, and other benefits. These deals
mean the kingdom needs oil at $85 to $90 per barrel to balance
its budget -- a huge increase from around $25 per barrel in
2003, figures Rachel Ziemba, an analyst at Roubini Global
Economics in London. “The social contract is becoming less and
less sustainable,” she says, adding that as the fiscal pressure
builds,  Saudi Arabia  may no longer be so willing to play the
role of swing producer, pumping new crude when it’s needed to
cool the market.  What does this mean for prices? “There is a $15-to-$20
unrest and fear premium in the market,” says Ray Carbone,
president of Paramount Options in  New York  and a trader at the
 New York Mercantile Exchange . “We wouldn’t see the premium
evaporate if Muammar Qaddafi left Libya tomorrow. I don’t see us
returning to where prices were anytime soon.” Goran Trapp,
Morgan Stanley’s chairman of oil liquids in London, one of the
firm’s trading groups, says the risk of real disaster, such as a
Saudi-Iran war, is not even priced yet into the market. 