-- 
EPA Carbon Rules Remain Intact as Senate Rejects Amendments

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-04-07T00:09:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/epa-carbon-rules-remain-intact-as-senate-rejects-amendments-1-.html
The Environmental Protection Agency
survived attempts in the  U.S. Senate  to strip the Obama
administration of its authority to regulate greenhouse gases
blamed for  climate change .  The Democratic-led Senate defeated four amendments to
small-business legislation that would have restricted, delayed
or prohibited the EPA’s limits on carbon-dioxide gases spewed
from tailpipes and smokestacks. The Republican-controlled House
is scheduled to vote tomorrow on a bill blocking the EPA rules.  The EPA imposed the regulations to limit carbon-dioxide
emissions after Congress failed to pass legislation backed by
President  Barack Obama  to create a cap-and-trade system for
pollution allowances. Republicans and some Democrats say the
rules are unnecessary and harmful to the economy. The Obama
administration today praised the Senate’s action.  “By rejecting efforts to roll back EPA’s common-sense
steps to safeguard Americans from harmful pollution, the Senate
also rejected an approach that would have increased the nation’s
dependence on oil, contradicted the scientific consensus on
global warming and jeopardized America’s ability to lead the
world in the clean energy economy,” White House press secretary
 Jay Carney  said in a statement.  Earlier today, the House rejected amendments to a bill
sponsored by Representative Fred Upton, a Michigan Republican
and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce Committee. Upton’s
bill would strip the EPA of authority to regulate emissions from
stationary polluters, such as  power plants  and oil refineries,
under the  Clean Air Act . It also would reject the agency’s
finding that greenhouse gases endanger the public.  Obama Veto  Obama’s aides would advise a veto should Upton’s
legislation reach the White House, the administration said
yesterday.  Senate Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky 
introduced a measure in the Senate today that was identical to
Upton’s bill. The proposed amendment to small-business
legislation was defeated 50-50. The measure required 60 votes.  A ban on the EPA rules in effect since January would
“prevent unelected bureaucrats at the EPA from imposing a new
national  energy tax ,” McConnell said today.  Senators also rejected amendments offered by Democratic
Senators Jay Rockefeller of West Virginia and Debbie Stabenow of
Michigan that called for the EPA carbon regulations to be
delayed for two years. A bill from Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana
Democrat, that would have restricted the scope of the rules,
also lost. The three bills each got fewer than 15 votes.  Public Survey  A February poll commissioned by the American Lung
Association found that 60 percent of people questioned said
Congress shouldn’t stop the EPA rules and 35 percent thought
lawmakers should bar the agency from limiting discharges of
carbon dioxide, a primary greenhouse gas.  The survey of 500 probable voters Feb. 7-14 by Democratic
polling firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research and Republican
pollster Ayres, McHenry & Associates, according to the
Washington-based association, a health-advocacy group. The poll
had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  