-- 
Hercules Reports Probes by U.S. SEC, Justice Department

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-04-07T22:43:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/hercules-reports-probes-by-u-s-sec-justice-department-1-.html
Hercules Offshore Inc. (HERO) , the largest
supplier of shallow-water rigs in the  Gulf of Mexico , said it
was subpoenaed by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission as
part of a probe into possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act.  The commission is requesting documents about “certain
international jurisdictions where we conduct operations,” the
Houston-based drilling contractor said today in a federal filing.
The  Justice Department  is also investigating the company,
according to the filing.  Hercules fell 70 cents, or 11 percent, to $5.68 in after-
hours trading.  The company, which has 25 rigs in the Gulf, 17 U.S. inland
barges and another eight rigs stationed elsewhere in the world,
announced in February it had an agreement to buy 20 shallow-
water rigs from its competitor Seahawk Drilling Inc. for cash
and shares. It said earlier this week it expects to close the
deal by April 20.  Panalpina World Transport Holding Ltd. said in November it
paid thousands of bribes to African, Asian and South American
officials on behalf of its customers in the oil and gas industry,
according to a Justice Department statement at the time.
Panalpina,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and five oil services companies
will pay $236.5 million to resolve a U.S. probe that involved
the FCPA.  West Africa  The probes may be related to Hercules’s so-called lift boat
business in West Africa, said Luke Lemoine, an analyst at
Capital One Southcoast in  New Orleans .  “West Africa seems to be where everybody has the trouble
with FCPA, if that is the issue, not saying that it is,”
Lemoine said today in a telephone interview. “Eventually, right
or wrong, they just kind of settle and move on.”  Hercules is the world’s largest provider of lift boats,
with 65 on three continents. Lift boats provide extra surface
space adjacent to shallow-water rigs and platforms.  Hercules Chief Financial Officer Stephen Butz declined to
comment.  The filing was made after the close of regular trading on
the Nasdaq. The company’s shares, which have eight buy ratings
from analysts, nine holds and seven sells, have climbed 83
percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  