-- 
Estee Lauder Touts Rainforest Elixir to Boost Hair-Care Sales

-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 
2011-04-07T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/estee-lauder-touts-crewcut-canadian-s-honduran-goo-to-spur-hair-care-sales.html
In the late 1990s a relative from
Central America gave Denis Simioni a baby-food jar filled with a
brown gloop that seemed to restore luster to dry hair.  Simioni, who owned a Toronto ad agency focused on beauty
products, began tinkering and researching the goo’s provenance.
He traced it to the Honduran rain forest where the Tawira
Miskito Indians, or “people of the beautiful hair,” had long
harvested the ojon nut for its moisturizing properties.  “I didn’t know how it worked at the time, but I knew it
worked and it was special,” he says.  So special, in fact, that cosmetics maker  Estee Lauder  Cos.
in 2007 plunked down $45 million for Simioni’s Ojon brand of
hair-care products. The acquisition so far hasn’t added much
extra body to the company’s financial tresses,  Bloomberg
Businessweek  reports in its April 11 edition.  Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Ali Dibadj  estimates that Ojon
makes up only about 1 percent of Estee Lauder’s $7.8 billion in
sales. Last year, Estee Lauder took an $8.8 million charge for
Ojon’s “reformulation” -- a sign the brand “has not performed
well and is in need of the relaunch,” says Vivienne Rudd, an
analyst at Mintel International Group in  London .  Still, Estee Lauder is sticking with the crew-cut Canadian
entrepreneur and his rain forest recipe as a way to ramp up its
expansion into the hair-care business. While Estee Lauder
commands up to a quarter of the high-end skin and makeup market
in the U.S., its hair products accounted for only a “sliver”
of the upscale hair-care business, Dibadj says.  Jungle Treks  Last month the New York-based company relaunched Ojon with
an in-store marketing campaign. Simioni has become a regular
pitchman on the QVC shopping channel, regaling viewers with
tales of his jungle treks in search of mane-enhancing
ingredients.  Philippe Warnery, an Estee Lauder vice-president who
manages the Ojon brand, says its acquisition gave Estee Lauder
not just a premium product but also a popular entrepreneur with
a compelling story who can connect directly with customers.  With the amiable former adman’s QVC appearances, Estee
Lauder can also track customer responses with an immediacy not
easily found elsewhere, watching sales spike when he mentions
key phrases -- say, “repairs damage” -- on air.  Estee Lauder, which entered the high-end hair market with
its 1997 purchase of Aveda and also owns the Bumble and bumble
hair-care brand, is focusing on so-called prestige hair-care
products, a $7 billion global market.  Fatter Margins  They typically sell for several times the price of mass-
market shampoos and generate fatter margins. A two-ounce bottle
of Ojon’s Color Sustain conditioner, for example, sells for $9
at cosmetics chain Sephora.  Hair-care sales aren’t particularly susceptible to stress
in the economy, says Wendy Liebmann, chief executive officer of
consulting firm WSL Strategic Retail in  New York .  “After skin care, hair care is most durable in good times
and bad,” she says. Over the past decade, “hair became
increasingly important as a fashion item and people were willing
to spend a premium on it.”  Prestige hair-care sales grew by 8.8 percent, to $6.9
billion, in the five years through 2010, according to consumer
researcher Euromonitor International.  Estee Lauder recently has taken steps to make the Ojon
brand more mainstream by focusing on its scientific properties
rather than its “folkloric” appeal, Dibadj says. The company’s
scientists have documented the effects of ojon oil and other
ingredients, giving the marketing team ammunition to hype Ojon’s
restorative properties.  Ethnically Diverse  One claim: that hair’s condition improved 64 percent after
just one application of its damage-reverse line. Store displays
rolled out last month feature more ethnically diverse models to
demonstrate the products’ effectiveness on various hair types.  When he isn’t pushing Ojon on TV, Simioni, 43, still
travels in search of elixirs used by traditional communities for
specific properties -- Mexican blue agave for hydration or
amaranth for protein -- that Estee Lauder scientists can probe
further. His next destination? Undecided.  “Odds are, knowing us, it’s remote,” he says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Ellis at 
 jellis27@bloomberg.net ;
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  