-- 
Estonian Inflation Slowest in Five Months on Strong Base

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-04-07T08:19:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/estonian-inflation-slowest-in-five-months-on-strong-base-2-.html
Estonian consumer-price growth was
the slowest in five months in March, reduced by a strong
comparison base a year earlier.  The inflation rate was 5.2 percent, compared with the same
month last year, the least since October, the Tallinn-based
statistics office said on its  website  today. The result compared
with a 5.7 percent increase in the previous month and a 5
percent median forecast of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
In the month, prices rose 0.8 percent.  “The moderation in year-on-year inflation came largely on
base effects, and price pressure remains significant still,”
said  Annika Lindblad , a Helsinki-based analyst with Nordea AB,
in an e-mailed comment. The average price increase this year may
exceed Nordea’s forecast of 3.9 percent, she said.  The Baltic country returned to price growth in March 2010
following 10 months of deflation due to the second-worst
recession in the 27-member European Union. Annual inflation rose
to 2.7 percent last year, while the country still qualified for
euro entry when assessed by the European Commission last May for
rolling 12-month price growth.  Inflation will exceed the central bank’s December forecast
of 3.5 percent this year, it said in an e-mailed statement
today. The bank will publish a new forecast in June.  Food, Fuel  Food and non-alcoholic beverage prices rose an annual 11.6
percent, which represented nearly half of the total increase in
March, the office said. This compares with an increase of 13.2
percent in February. Fuel prices increased 14.2 percent,
compared with a 13.1 percent increase the previous month.  Average annual inflation may rise to 4 percent this year
and accelerate to 5 percent next year on higher utilization of
resources as the economy recovers, SEB AB, the second-largest
Baltic lender, forecast on March 23.  Inflation excluding food and energy prices should remain
“subdued” this year, the  International Monetary Fund  said on
March 3.  “Domestic price pressure from, for example, the labor
market remains subdued due to the modest wage gains and still
elevated  unemployment rate , and thus inflation is seen
moderating once the external factors pushing up prices abate,”
Lindblad of Nordea said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at 
 wmorris@bloomberg.net  