-- 
Estonian, Lithuanian GDP Growth Forecasts Raised by Swedbank

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s   a n d   M i l d a   S e p u t y t e
-- 
2011-04-07T09:51:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/estonian-lithuanian-gdp-growth-forecasts-raised-by-swedbank-1-.html
The Baltic economies of Estonia and
 Lithuania  will probably expand faster than previously expected
on export growth and recovering domestic demand,  Swedbank AB (SWEDA) 
said.  Estonian’s economy may expand 4.5 percent this year and
next, compared with a Jan. 13 estimate of 4.2 percent for 2011,
Swedbank AB, the biggest lender in the Baltic region, said in a
report today. Swedbank raised its Lithuanian 2011 growth
forecast to 4.2 percent from a previous 3 percent. The economy
may grow 4.7 percent in 2012, it said.  After suffering through the worst drop in economic output
in the world, the Baltic countries of Estonia,  Latvia  and
Lithuania have been growing on a quarterly basis since the
beginning of 2010. The region relies on exports, benefiting from
rising demand in  Europe .  “Domestic demand will gradually replace exports as the
main source of growth, with investments as the main factor” in
 Estonia , the report said. “Private consumption will recover
only slowly due to modest wage developments, increasing prices,
and lingering unemployment.”  Swedbank kept Latvia’s 2011 growth forecast unchanged at 4,
while slashing the 2012 estimate to 3.9 percent from a previous
4.2 percent.  Accelerating inflation in Latvia and Lithuania risks
jeopardising euro adoption targeted for both countries in 2014.
Latvian inflation rate may average 4.2 percent this year, while
Lithuania’s consumer prices may rise 3.2 percent, driven by
global commodity price increases.  “Unless action to hold back inflation is undertaken by the
government, there is a risk of exceeding the Maastricht
inflation criterion for introducing the euro in 2014,” the
report said.  Swedbank called on the governments to strengthen
competition, improve efficiency in the energy sector and called
against increases in the value added or excise taxes to mitigate
inflation pressures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Milda Seputyte in Vilnius at 
 mseputyte@bloomberg.net  