-- 
Ethiopia Tells Private Banks to Buy Bonds to Fund Infrastructure Projects

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T15:42:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ethiopia-tells-private-banks-to-buy-bonds-to-fund-infrastructure-projects.html
Ethiopia will compel private lenders
to purchase  government bonds  equivalent to 27 percent of their
annual loans to help fund development in the country, a central
bank official said.  A policy directive has been issued to ensure banks provide
funds for long-term infrastructure projects,  National Bank of
Ethiopia  Deputy Governor of Monetary Stability Yohannes Ayalew
said in an interview yesterday in  Addis Ababa , the capital.  “Banks are meant to contribute toward development
projects,” Yohannes said.  Ethiopia needs to spend $5.1 billion annually over the next
decade to address a shortage of power, roads and
telecommunications infrastructure, according to a World Bank
 report  published last year. That level of investment is beyond
what the government can currently afford, according to the
report.  Projects currently under way in the Horn of  Africa  country
include a $6 billion program to build a 2,395-kilometer (1,488-
mile) railway network, according to the Ethiopian government.
Last month, Water Minister Alemayehu Tegenu said the country
will build a 5,250 megawatt hydropower dam in the Nile River
basin at a cost of $4.76 billion. The project will be funded
partly through the sale of government bonds, Alemayehu said.  Five-Year Bills  Under the central bank directive, five-year National Bank
bonds will be bought by lenders at the end of each month,
according to Yohannes. The securities will offer a coupon of 3
percent, he said. State-owned banks including  Commercial Bank of
Ethiopia , the country’s biggest lender, will be exempt as they
routinely finance long-term projects, Yohannes said.  The government also plans to raise as much as 15 billion
birr ($892.2 million) over five years from the sale of
Government Savings Bonds, according to Yohannes. The securities
will pay 5.5 percent when held for as long as five years, and
six percent for longer, he said.  Ethiopia , Africa’s second-most populous nation with 83
million people, was Africa’s fastest-growing economy in 2009
with an annual growth rate of 9.9 percent, according to the
 International Monetary Fund ’s website. The growth rate has
averaged 11 percent over the past seven years, IMF data shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa via Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Richardson in Nairobi at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net . 