-- 
EU Regulators Draw Criticism for Stress Tests That Use Basel III Benchmark

-- B y   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-04-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/eu-regulators-draw-criticism-for-stress-tests-that-use-basel-iii-benchmark.html
European regulators were criticized
by German banks for a plan to incorporate into this year’s
stress tests global capital standards that aren’t scheduled to
be implemented for eight years.  The  European Banking Authority  will review the amount of
“higher quality and most loss-absorbing” capital on banks’
balance sheets, Andrea Enria, the group’s chairman, said in
Vienna this week. The move was criticized by regional German
banks including Norddeutsche Landesbank and Landesbank Hessen-
Thueringen because the tests may exclude a form of non-voting
capital, known as silent participation, which that country’s
regulators allow to be counted toward a bank’s reserves.  The EBA is scheduled to announce today which types of
capital it will accept, which banks will be tested and the value
of assets they must hold to pass. The regulator is expected to
set a pass rate requiring 5 percent of core Tier 1 capital under
the most-stressed scenario for this year’s tests, the  European
Commission  said. Last year, banks had to hold 6 percent of the
less-stringently defined Tier 1 capital.  “I do have some sympathy for the Landesbanken on this,”
 Simon Gleeson , a partner at  Clifford Chance LLP  in London, said
in a telephone interview. “It does seem a bit rough to do
something on the basis of Basel reforms being implemented
immediately rather than over several years.”  Under standards set last year by global regulators on the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , silent participation
capital won’t be allowed and the value of the highest-quality
capital banks must hold would triple. The rules are scheduled
for full implementation by 2019.  German Concern  Germany’s Bundesbank and financial regulator BaFin have
called for the stress-test information submission deadline to be
extended by two weeks, the central bank said yesterday. The
original deadline was the end of April, the Bundesbank said.  “The concern in  Germany  is very much on the definition of
capital,” Enria said. “We may like it or not, but since the
crisis, the benchmark used by market participants and regulators
is high-quality capital.”  At Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, or Helaba, silent
participations -- the funds the state-owned banks receive from
savings banks and regional governments -- accounted for more
than 50 percent of the total in 2010. At Norddeutsche
Landesbank, or NordLB, it amounted to 30.5 percent of capital in
September, company figures show.  Nord LB will convert silent capital into core capital to
comply with Basel standards by 2015, Carsten Dickhut, a
spokesman for the Hanover, Germany-based lender said last month.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Ben Moshinsky in  London  at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 