-- 
Stress Tests Must Focus on High-Quality Capital, Enria Says

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-04-07T11:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/eu-stress-tests-must-focus-on-high-quality-capital-enria-says.html
European Union regulators should
only allow the capital that can best absorb banks’ possible
losses when they conduct the latest round of stress tests, the
region’s top bank supervisor said.  “We have to look at the higher quality and most loss-
absorbing parts of the capital,” said Andrea Enria, chairman of
the  European Banking Authority , the agency overseeing the exams.
“It would be difficult for us to just look at the legal
definition” of capital that applies in the EU, Enria told
journalists in Vienna yesterday.  The EBA will announce tomorrow which types of capital it
will accept and how much a bank must hold to pass the test,
Enria said. The definition may exclude a form of non-voting
capital known as silent participation that is common among
German state-owned banks, two people familiar with the talks
have said.  Last year’s EU stress tests were criticized for not being
stringent enough because lenders in the 27-nation region were
shown by regulators to need only 3.5 billion euros ($5 billion)
of new capital, about a 10th of the lowest analyst estimate.
Those tests were based on a definition of capital known as Tier
1, which includes some hybrid instruments such as preference
shares.  Bundesbank  Germany ’s Bundesbank and financial regulator BaFin are
calling for the submission deadline for stress-test documents to
be extended by two weeks as the EBA hasn’t yet published its
definition of capital, the central bank said today. The original
deadline was the end of April, the Bundesbank said.  Enria said the 2011 tests will use a definition of core
capital that may be tougher than a standard drawn up at
international level by the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision  that will apply in 2013.  “We cannot live anymore in Europe with 27 different
definitions of capital,” Enria said. This has been “a
competition in laxity which brought a deterioration of capital
quality in  Europe  and globally.”  The possible exclusion of silent participation from the
tests has drawn criticism from some German lenders.  “The concern in Germany is very much on the definition of
capital,” Enria said. “We may like it or not but since the
crisis the benchmark used by market participants and regulators
is high-quality capital.”  Landesbanken  Silent participations are funds that Germany’s Landesbanken
receive from savings banks and regional governments. At
Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen, or Helaba, such capital accounted
for more than 50 percent of the total at the end of 2010, while
at Norddeutsche Landesbank, or NordLB, it amounted to 30.5
percent of capital in September, company figures show.  This type of investment was also used by the German
government to recapitalize lenders, including  Commerzbank AG (CBK) 
during the financial crisis. German regulators allow banks to
count silent participation toward their capital reserves.  “There are silent partnerships that are strong and silent
partnerships that are weak,” Enria said. “But most of them are
not common equity,” he said, referring to the definition of
core capital set by the Basel committee, which mainly includes a
bank’s ordinary stock and retained earnings.  The European Banking Authority is expected to set a pass
rate requiring 5 percent of core Tier 1 capital under the most
stressed scenario for this year’s tests, the European Commission
said on April 1. In last year’s tests, banks had to hold 6
percent of the less stringent Tier 1 capital measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  