-- 
EU Should Loosen Labor Laws, Alter Tax Systems, OECD Says

-- B y   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-04-07T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/eu-should-loosen-labor-laws-alter-tax-systems-oecd-says.html
The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development said European Union states should
loosen  labor laws  and adjust tax systems to bolster the recovery
from the worst economic slump since World War II.  Structural changes “provide the main available policy
lever to speed up the global recovery” after the recession left
a “permanent scar” of lost growth, OECD Chief Economist Pier Carlo Padoan wrote in a report today.  The Paris-based OECD earlier this week said an economic
recovery among the world’s most-advanced economies is gathering
strength. In the U.S. and  Italy , growth may accelerate from the
first quarter, while  Germany ,  Canada ,  France  and the U.K. may
see a slowdown, it forecast.  “Monetary policies have been stretched to their limits and
public budgets are in need of consolidation,” Padoan said.
Pressure from the  bond market  is “strengthening the case for
action.”  The European Central Bank today raised its main interest
rate for the first time since 2008 to fight rising inflation.
Portugal yesterday followed Greece and Ireland, saying it needs
an EU-led bailout after its borrowing costs rose to a record.
ECB policy makers in Frankfurt lifted the benchmark interest
rate to 1.25 percent from a record low of 1 percent.  “Reforms that boost employment levels are likely to be
helpful to fiscal consolidation,” the OECD wrote. They include
“increased spending on and reform of active labour market
policies, reduced labour-market dualism through job-protection
reform and improved design of social-transfer programs.”  While unemployment in the 17-nation euro region fell in
February to 9.9 percent from a revised 10 percent in January.
European companies may be reluctant to boost hiring as the euro-
region economy shows signs of slowdown. Economic confidence
dropped in March and manufacturing growth weakened.  “Unsustainable public finances have also made many other
types of structural reforms more urgent,” such as improvements
in tax systems, which could ease deficits, the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 