-- 
European Stocks Drop After Japan Earthquake, ECB Rate Increase

-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-07T16:06:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/european-index-futures-are-little-changed-after-portugal-s-bailout-request.html
European stocks fell for the first
time in five days after a 7.1-magnitude earthquake struck off
the coast of  Japan  and as the  European Central Bank  raised
 interest rates  for the first time in almost three years.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  tumbled 7.9 percent after Germany’s biggest
builder warned of losses at its Australian unit.  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  led auto-industry shares lower.  Halfords Group
Plc (HFD)  sank the most in six months after the U.K. retailer said
profit may miss estimates. Banks limited the selloff after
 Portugal  sought a bailout from the European Union.  The Stoxx 600 declined 0.3 percent to 280.78 at the 4:30
p.m. close in London, erasing an earlier gain. The gauge tumbled
5.7 percent in the four days after Japan was hit by its biggest
earthquake in at least a century on March 11. The temblor
crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant and killed or left
missing more than 27,000 people.  “This just shows that investor sentiment is already very
brittle because of the proximity to Fukushima,” said Jeremy Batstone-Carr, head of research at Charles Stanley & Co. in
London. “There is a lot of uncertainty out there so the initial
reaction by the market was: ‘here we go again.’ It will take a
little time to assess the impact from this.”  European stocks erased an earlier advance after the
earthquake hit 215 miles northeast of  Tokyo , resulting in
warnings of a possible tsunami. The quake was measured at a
depth of about 25 miles and struck around 11:32 p.m. local time,
the  U.S. Geological Survey  reported.  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes declined in 12 out of 18 western
European markets today. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 lost 0.6 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX and  France ’s CAC 40 slid 0.5 percent. Portugal’s
PSI-20 rallied 1.2 percent as the nation became the third to ask
for EU assistance, following  Greece  and Ireland.  “The cat is out of the bag for Portugal, but I don’t think
this will have a big effect,” said Markus Linke, who runs two
 hedge funds  with 150 million Swiss francs ($163 million) under
management for Swisspartners Investment Network AG in Zurich.
“The market priced this in many weeks ago.”  Officials may start hammering out the details of a rescue
package at a meeting of EU finance ministers that starts
tomorrow at Godollo Castle, near Budapest. ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet, whose Governing Council today voted for the
first interest-rate increase since 2008, will also attend.  ECB Rates  The ECB raised its benchmark rate to 1.25 percent from 1
percent, as predicted by all 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The bank will continue to monitor inflation risks “very
closely” and monetary policy remains “accommodative,” Trichet
told reporters in  Frankfurt  today.  “We’re in the camp that thinks inflation is a temporary
spike,” said Thomas Haerter, chief strategist at Swisscanto
Asset Management AG in Zurich, which has 13 billion francs under
management. “The market still expects the ECB to continue
increasing rates.”  The BOE kept its benchmark interest rate at a record low of
0.5 percent for a 26th month.  Hochtief plunged 7.9 percent to 69.99 euros, the most since
October 2009. Germany’s biggest listed builder said Australian
unit Leighton Holdings Ltd.’s earnings review will likely have
“significant adverse effects” on its 2011 forecasts.  Automakers were the worst-performing industry group in the
Stoxx 600. BMW dropped 2.8 percent to 59.13 euros after Morgan
Stanley downgraded the shares to “underweight” from
“overweight.”  GKN Plc (GKN) , a maker of systems that improve power
and torque in cars, slid 4.5 percent to 199.9 pence.  Halfords, Gamesa  Halfords fell 5.1 percent to 350 pence, the biggest drop
since October. The U.K.’s largest seller of car parts and
bicycles said pretax profit may be slightly lower than estimates
as the squeeze on  consumer spending  started to hit sales.  Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA, a Spanish wind-turbine
manufacturer, slid 4.5 percent to 7.10 euros.  “There is a substantial risk of declining profits,”
Patrick Hummel, an analyst at  UBS AG (UBSN) , wrote in a note to
customers today.  Banks limited today’s losses.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) ,
Portugal’s biggest publicly traded lender by market value,
climbed 4.2 percent to 2.99 euros, the largest gain in three
months.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP)  rose 4.1 percent to 61.4
euro cents.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , whose shares have tumbled 45
percent in the past year, jumped 3.9 percent to 6.39 euros,
helping Greece’s ASE Index to a 1.5 percent advance.  Swiss Banks  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  climbed 2.1 percent to 41.01 francs
and UBS AG gained 1.4 percent to 17.15 francs. JPMorgan Chase &
Co. named  Switzerland ’s two largest banks as “top picks” in a
note advising investors to “stay overweight” on European
lenders as capital raising structurally reduces systemic risk.  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , Germany’s second-biggest lender, sank 4.9
percent to 5.42 euros as analysts at WestLB AG and Nomura
Holdings Inc. cut their ratings on concern a planned share sale
will dilute existing holdings, according to reports today.  “We expect the stock price to remain weak running into the
dynamics of the rights issue,” Nomura analysts led by Chintan Joshi wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Zurich at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in  London  at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  