-- 
European Debt Crisis Morphs Into New Phase: Mohamed El-Erian

-- B y   M o h a m e d   A .   E l - E r i a n
-- 
2011-04-07T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/european-debt-crisis-morphs-into-new-phase-commentary-by-mohamed-el-erian.html
Portugal ’s decision to follow Greece
and Ireland in seeking a European Union-led bailout may mark a
watershed in the region’s debt crisis. Instead of a falling
domino that threatens to topple countries higher up the credit-
quality ladder, the latest aid request will likely speed up the
debt restructuring of the three countries in  Europe ’s intensive-
care unit.  Portugal’s need for emergency assistance became inevitable
last month once its parliament rejected the government’s plans
for yet another round of austerity. Former Prime Minister  Jose Socrates ’s resistance to seek a bailout became untenable in the
face of credit-rating downgrades, deterioration in market
spreads and access, and the added balance-sheet strains on
Portuguese banks.  With help coming from the  European Central Bank , Portugal
will now access emergency funds from other governmental sources
to meet its debt obligations and to reduce the probability of a
banking crisis.  While Portugal is the third  euro-zone  country to go down
this road in less than a year, the next phase will likely play
out differently. Portugal is negotiating for a bailout in the
run-up to its June elections. As such, it will find it hard to
provide the policy commitments deemed critical for the type of
EU and International Monetary Fund support keeping Greece and
Ireland afloat.  Transitional mechanisms will be needed to bridge to a new
government that’s able and willing to commit to a credible
multiyear reform program. Look for the ECB and EU to carry an
even larger burden in the next few weeks, with the IMF getting
involved at a later stage.  Restructuring Likely  Judging from market pricing of Portugal’s debt, it’s
increasingly likely that this emergency lending will be
accompanied by some type of debt restructuring after 2013. This
would be enabled by the wider set of policy options favored by
 Germany .  Whether this timeline materializes will depend not only on
Portugal, but also on what happens elsewhere in Europe.
Specifically, will Portugal’s bailout be followed by a further
migration of the debt crisis in the euro zone? Or will Portugal
mark the phase when truly differentiated outcomes are sustained?  The fear is that Portugal’s bailout is yet another
indication that Europe’s peripheral debt crisis will ravage
Italy and  Spain  next. This would be consequential for a lot more
than just these two countries. Italy and Spain would overwhelm
the euro zone’s rescue mechanisms, thus transforming a
peripheral crisis into a region-wide debacle.  Shift in Focus  Fortunately, the probability of this happening is declining
as more European banks -- like Germany’s Commerzbank and  Italy ’s
Intesa this week -- succeed in raising additional private
capital.  If this trend continues, as I expect it to, look for the
EU, ECB and IMF to change their approach to helping the three
countries being bailed out. The focus will shift away from
liquidity and on to solvency well before 2013.  With reduced concern about the contagion spreading up the
credit-quality ladder, these three official lenders will be less
willing to continue to pile new debt on top of old debt, and
rightly so. The approach taken so far, while succeeding in
retarding the day of reckoning for private creditors and banks,
has involved significant costs.  The strategy has shifted even more of the burden to already
stressed taxpayers and users of public services. It has further
undermined the outlook for sustainable economic growth and
employment creation, aggravating social tensions. And it has
contaminated the ECB’s balance sheet, eroding its hard-earned
credibility and policy responsiveness.  On the surface, Portugal’s bailout may look like a replay
of Greece and Ireland. But don’t be fooled. Seemingly familiar
developments in the next few weeks will likely be followed by a
paradigm shift, especially if European banks continue to raise
capital.  This will accelerate the move from an unsustainable
liquidity approach to a more durable solvency solution for the
continent’s debt crisis.  (Mohamed A. El-Erian is chief executive officer and co-
chief investment officer at Pacific Investment Management Co.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Mohamed A. El-Erian at  Mohamed.el-erian@pimco.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  