-- 
Euro Falls on ECB Rate Assessment; Yen Gains After Reports of Earthquake

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a   a n d   G a r t h   T h e u n i s s e n
-- 
2011-04-07T21:09:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/euro-weakens-after-portugal-bailout-overshadows-rate-increase-expectations.html
The euro fell from its highest level
in more than a year after European Central Bank President Jean- Claude Trichet said today’s interest-rate increase wasn’t
necessarily the “first of a series.”  The yen strengthened against the dollar after reports of a
7.1 magnitude earthquake off  Japan ’s coast. The euro fell versus
14 of 16 major peers as the ECB shifted policy to address rising
inflation and after Portugal’s Prime Minister,  Jose Socrates ,
said yesterday the nation was seeking financial assistance from
the European Union.  “Trichet seemed to indicate that rates over time are
likely going to rise, but he didn’t indicate that they’re
prepared to raise rates next time,” said David Watt, senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit in Toronto. “He’s not going to give the market any
one-way bets on the euro.”  The euro fell as much as 0.6 percent and traded 0.2 percent
weaker at $1.4308 at 5 p.m. in  New York . It reached $1.4349
yesterday, the strongest level since Jan. 19.  The yen strengthened 0.8 percent to 121.49 per euro and
appreciated 0.7 percent to 84.91 per dollar.  A magnitude-7.1 aftershock, one of the strongest since the
devastating earthquake March 11, struck Japan today 215 miles
northeast of Tokyo, the U.S. Geological Survey reported on its
website. None of the nuclear facilities reported distress,
according to official and news media reports. A tsunami alert
was canceled.  Euro Path  Europe ’s currency has gained 6.9 percent versus the dollar
this year as surging economic growth in  Germany  and accelerating
inflation spurred investors to raise bets that rates would be
increased to curb consumer prices, which reached a two-year high
of 2.6 percent in March.  The ECB raised its key rate by 25 basis points to 1.25
percent. The increase was predicted by all the economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  “We did not decide that it was the first of a series of
interest-rate increases,” Trichet said during a press
conference in  Frankfurt . “We will continue to do in the
future” what is appropriate “to ensure price stability,” he
said.  Portugal  plans to make a formal written request to the
European Commission for financial aid, government minister Pedro
Silva Pereira said in Lisbon. A rescue package for Portugal may
be worth as much as 75 billion euros ($107 billion), two
European officials with knowledge of the situation said.  Portugal Rescue  “Portugal’s decision to trigger the rescue mechanism was
expected,” said  Lutz Karpowitz , a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “Portugal is not a problem as long
as there no contagion to Spain. People are not convinced the
mechanism is large enough for that.”  The ECB moved to raise rates before central banks of other
developed nations, such as the U.S. and Japan. The  Federal
Reserve  is not expected to raise rates until the first quarter
of 2012 and the  Bank of Japan  likely won’t in the next 12
months, according to the median estimate in two Bloomberg News
surveys.  “You have this wedge opening up between the euro zone and
other majors and that provides a tremendous amount of support
for the euro,” said Michael Hart, director of foreign exchange
strategy at Roubini Global Economics LLC in  London .  Pound Slips  The pound slipped versus the dollar after the  Bank of
England  left its benchmark rate at 0.5 percent, as all 57
economists in a Bloomberg survey predicted. The pound fell 0.1
percent to $1.6323 and gained 0.1 percent to 87.65 pence to the
euro.  Brazil  extended a tax on foreign-based loans to deter
investors from borrowing in nations with low  interest rates  to
purchase higher-yielding assets such as the real. The Brazilian
currency has surged 42 percent against the dollar since the
start of 2009, making the country’s exports less competitive.  The real strengthened beyond 1.60 per dollar for the first
time since August 2008. The benchmark interest rate is 11.75
percent in Brazil, compared with a central bank rate of 0.1
percent in Japan.  The real gained 1.7 percent to 1.5863 per dollar, from
1.6144.  “Risk-aversion buying of the yen and the Swiss franc may
arise should Brazil’s measures lead to selling of emerging-
market assets,” said Tsunemasa Tsukada, chief manager for
currencies and financial products in  Tokyo  at Mitsubishi UFJ
Trust & Banking Corp., a unit of Japan’s largest financial group
by market value.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  