-- 
European Exchanges Reach Deal With Data Vendors on Reporting Stock Trades

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 
2011-04-07T23:29:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/european-exchanges-reach-deal-with-data-vendors-on-reporting-stock-trades.html
European securities exchanges agreed
to standards on what kind of data to include when reporting
stock transactions, a step toward unifying regional trading
information in a project called the consolidated tape.  The rules will be implemented in regulated markets and on
alternative venues known as multilateral trading facilities in
 Europe , according to a  statement  from the  Federation of European
Securities Exchanges . The plan, called a market model typology,
will make it easier to integrate data from those platforms with
over-the-counter trade reports.  Developing a consolidated tape is part of an overhaul of
European trading regulations adopted in 2007 to spur competition
among venues, the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or
MiFID. Regulators are seeking to create a data feed that shows
the price and volume of individual stock trades and where among
dozens of venues they occurred.  “This is a crucial first step in defining what trade
information is going to be reported,” said Thomas Jordan,
president and chief executive officer of Jordan & Jordan, a New
York-based company that specializes in securities industry
information and compliance issues. “It gets consistency among
the major players about that information.”  Reuters, Bloomberg  The initiative was led by the  Federation of European
Securities Exchanges , which represents 46 securities bourses;
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) ; and data vendors such as
 Thomson Reuters Corp (TRI)  and Bloomberg LP, FESE said in its
statement yesterday. Bloomberg LP is the parent company of
Bloomberg News and competes with  Thomson Reuters  in selling
financial and legal information and trading systems.  Agreeing on common standards is a precursor to deciding how
to provide consistent information about trades through a
consolidated tape to asset managers, brokers and other market
participants. Unlike in the  U.S. , Europe doesn’t have a system
that aggregates and publishes the information.  “Post-trade information published by different venues and
through different sources needs to be brought together,” Judith
Hardt, Secretary General of FESE, said in the statement. “Our
standards will allow market participants to consolidate the
information published by our members more easily.”  Brokers and other companies currently compile the data
themselves and may choose to get information from different
combinations of venues, giving them incomplete views of trading
activity. That affects the trading decisions and strategies
brokers and asset managers employ.  Pan-European Trading  “This would help people in the market get a fuller sense
of pan-European trading,” said Justin Schack, managing director
in charge of market structure analysis at Rosenblatt Securities
Inc. in New York. “Right now, a lot of firms have to put
together consolidated feeds on their own and that can be time-
consuming and costly.”  The European Commission  said  in a December report that
because so many venues publish data, it costs traders about 500
euros ($715) a month per computer terminal for data fees and
other costs to calculate consolidated prices for stocks. In the
U.S., the comparable cost is about 70 euros. The  commission  said
it may consider mandating that trade data be available to the
public at no charge after 15 minutes.  The group proposed three alternatives for a consolidated
tape in its December report. One would be similar to the U.S.
model in which an authorized entity runs the tape, providing
data “on a reasonable cost basis.” Another would allow a
vendor to operate the system and charge users “on a reasonable
commercial basis.” The third option would allow competing
commercial providers to provide a consolidated tape.  “Option C seems to be having some traction now,” Jordan
said, referring to rival consolidators. Agreeing to common
standards helps firms that favor that model, he added. “The
good news is there will be something in the marketplace that
will assist the regulators in accomplishing some of their MiFID
goals,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  