-- 
European Ports Tighten Radiation Checks as Japan Container Ships Approach

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-04-08T13:19:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/european-ports-boost-radiation-checks-before-post-quake-japan-ships-dock.html
European ports including Rotterdam
and Antwerp are tightening safety checks as they prepare to
unload the first ships from  Japan  since last month’s earthquake
led to radioactive discharges from a damaged nuclear plant.  Rotterdam, Europe’s biggest container port, will screen for
radiation while ships are still at sea. Antwerp, the No. 2, will
make similar checks aboard vessels for which Japan was one of
the last 10 ports of call, with any abnormal readings triggering
an inspection by  Belgium ’s Federal Agency for Nuclear Control.  Ships that left Japan soon after March 11’s magnitude-9
earthquake and tsunami led to leaks at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
atomic plant will reach Europe mid-month after a 30-day journey.
Antwerp says it plans a “thorough” screening of the first vessel
to dock and will carry out random checks on subsequent arrivals.  “People working in the port and responsible for unloading
ships and cargo from Japan are worried,” Antwerp spokeswoman
Annik Dirkx said in an e-mailed response to questions. “That’s
why we want to do this, to show that there is really no reason.”  A 7.1-magnitude earthquake yesterday spared the stricken
Fukushima plant, although workers struggling to cool radioactive
fuel were evacuated,  Tokyo  Electric Power Co. said, based on its
initial assessment.  No Disruption  The Belgian nuclear agency “has guaranteed” that ships
and cargo from Japan pose no threat, Dirkx said. With the checks
carried out at sea, the unloading and transfer of cargo won’t be
disrupted, assuming no radiation is detected, she added.  “There’s a distinct possibility that some of the ships will
have encountered low-level contamination,” said Rick Hallard, a
former senior radiation protection adviser at Sellafield nuclear
reprocessing plant in  England . “Could they still be contaminated
when they reach Europe? The answer’s ‘yes,’ but I’d be astounded
if the levels were sufficient to pose any real health hazard.”  Rotterdam  doesn’t expect to discover concentrations of
radioactivity above permitted levels and will also carry out the
scans before ships enter port to confirm this, Harbor Master
Rene de Vries said in an e-mail.  “We have an obligation to do this on behalf of those
directly involved in handling the ship,” he said. “By doing
so, we can remove many concerns and people can work safely.”  Chinese Refusal  The container vessel  MOL Presence , operated by Tokyo-based
Mitsui O.S.K. Lines Ltd., was turned away from the Chinese city
of Xiamen last month with what port authorities there said were
“abnormal” readings after passing 67 nautical miles (124
kilometers) off Fukushima prefecture.  The 3.5 microsieverts per hour of radiation detected was
less than 20 percent the dose from a chest X-ray, according to
the U.K. Health Protection Agency website. That would typically
cause cancer in one in every 5 million people, according to
Hallard, who worked at Sellafield,  Europe ’s biggest atomic site,
for 34 years. Ten hours of exposure would affect one in 500,000.  Most of the airborne discharge from the Fukushima plant was
blown out to sea, making it less dangerous for people on land
but more hazardous for shipping, Hallard said. Rainfall would
have increased deposits on vessels by “scrubbing” radioactive
particles out of the air, though heavy seas and downpours later
in the voyage should have helped disperse them again.  U.S. Navy spokesman Commander Jeff Davis said March 28 that
radiation can be washed from ships with soap and water and poses
no health risk. The Navy is aiding the recovery effort.  Gloves, Masks  Radioactive iodine-131, known to have been discharged from
the Fukushima site, has a half-life of only eight days, so that
after a month-long voyage barely one-sixteenth of the original
amount would remain, Hallard said. Cesium-137, by contrast,
which has also been detected, has a half-life of 30 years.  Dock workers can protect against alpha and beta atomic
particles by wearing gloves and face masks, Hallard said. Gamma
rays, which scanners are attuned to detect, can penetrate bones
and metal but are likely to have been emitted in lower levels.  The checks to be carried out before vessels tie up at
European docks represent a tightening of already-rigorous tests
introduced following the world’s worst nuclear accident in
Chernobyl, Ukraine, in 1986, and after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks on the U.S., the ports of Antwerp and Hamburg said.  “Tests for radiation are not a problem for us, because the
necessary technical resources were built up and appropriate
controls were implemented after Chernobyl,” Cornelia Prufer-
Storcks, Hamburg’s senator for health and consumer protection,
said in a statement on April 4.  Container Scans  Under the  Megaports system  established after the Al-Qaeda
attacks on  New York  and  Washington , containers entering Antwerp
are scanned for radioactivity on a daily basis using detector
panels installed by Belgian Customs in collaboration with U.S.
authorities, according to spokeswoman Dirkx.  Six other European ports -- Rotterdam, Lisbon, Southampton
in England, Zeebrugge in Belgium, Piraeus in Greece and
Algeciras in  Spain  -- also had the technology installed as of
September, according to the project’s website.  At Hamburg, Europe’s third-biggest container port, the
local government will control food and animal-feed products that
arrive from Japan, checking that they were screened on departure
in accordance with European Union requirements to deal with the
aftermath of the nuclear leak, the state senate said.  Most ships from Japan that tie up in Hamburg will in any
case have been screened en route in ports such as  Hong Kong , the
senate said in its statement.  Medicine, Cosmetics  Gothenburg, the Nordic region’s largest port, has no direct
calls from Japan and will also rely on screening elsewhere while
carrying out random checks on Japanese goods including medicine,
cosmetics and other products that are ingested or used on the
skin, according to the Swedish Civil Contingencies Agency.  The arrival of the first vessels to leave Japan after March
11 will indicate the extent to which exports from the Asian
country have been disrupted by damage wrought by the catastrophe
and by plant closures during electricity blackouts. Nissan Motor
Co. and Honda Motor Co. are already slashing output at their
European factories as parts shortages filter through.  Japan handles about 4 percent of the world’s containers and
prior to the disaster almost 20 percent of the global fleet by
box capacity was timetabled to call there, according to Clarkson
Plc, the world’s biggest shipbroker.  Vessels are continuing to avoid a 30-kilometer no-go area
around the Fukushima site as instructed by the Japanese
government, and many shipping lines have adopted larger
exclusion zones to avoid off-shore debris from the tsunami.  Still, companies including  Denmark ’s  A.P. Moeller-Maersk
A/S , the world’s largest container line, and  France ’s CMA CGM
SA, the No. 3, have continued calling at ports in the Tokyo area
since the earthquake and tsunami, while  Germany ’s Hapag-Lloyd AG
is  resuming port calls  at Yokohama and Tokyo this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  