-- 
Ex-Bond Trader Pleads Guilty in $9 Million Trading Scheme

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e r a n   W i t t e n s t e i n
-- 
2011-04-07T23:23:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ex-bond-trader-pleads-guilty-in-9-million-trading-scheme-1-.html
A former bond trader pleaded guilty
in  New Jersey  today, admitting he manipulated the prices of
collateralized mortgage obligations to conceal trading losses,
U.S. Attorney Paul Fishman said in a statement.  Douglas Green, 47, pleaded guilty to  securities fraud  in
federal court in Trenton, New Jersey, the statement said. He
worked at Crocker Securities, a broker-dealer that used the
clearing services of Pershing LLC in Jersey City, New Jersey.
Green managed an account that “suffered significant trading
losses” in 2004 that worsened through 2008, Fishman said.  To conceal the losses, he entered fraudulent transactions
to boost the price of CMOs to correspond to increasing losses in
the Crocker trading accounts, the statement said. As a result of
Green’s fraudulent trading activity, the price of CMOs was
inflated, and Pershing lost more than $9 million when it had to
liquidate positions in the Crocker account, the statement said.  “Green engaged in a multi-million dollar coverup,”
Fishman said in the statement. “He manipulated prices of CMOs
to conceal major trading losses by creating fictitious
transactions at artificial prices. As a result of Green’s
deception, Pershing lost approximately $9 million.”  Green faces as many as 20 years in prison. He is scheduled
to be sentenced on July 22. Green lives in Parkland,  Florida .  His attorney, Jeffrey Cox of Boca Raton, Florida, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment.  The case is  United States  v. Douglas Green, 11-cr-207, U.S.
District Court, District of New Jersey (Trenton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jeran Wittenstein in  San Francisco  at 
 jwittenstein1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  