-- 
Facebook CEO Announces Plan to Share Data-Center Technology

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-04-07T18:51:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/facebook-introduces-open-compute-plan-to-share-data-center-technology.html
Facebook Inc. Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  plans to share the social-networking
site’s data-center and server designs with other companies to
help the technology industry become more efficient.  The effort, called the Open Compute Project, will provide
access to technology Facebook developed with  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
Advanced Micro Devices Inc.,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Dell Inc. (DELL) ,
the  Palo Alto , California-based company said today.  Facebook, the world’s largest social-networking service,
relies on data centers to serve up photos, status updates and
videos to its more than 500 million users. By better regulating
computer workloads, power consumption and cooling, the company
says data centers can use 38 percent less energy and cost 24
percent less to build.  “We’re not the only ones who need the kind of hardware
that we’re building out,” Zuckerberg said today. “By sharing
that, we think that there’s going to be more demand for the type
of stuff that we needed.”  The move is a break from the past habits of Internet
companies, such as  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and Amazon.com Inc., which have
guarded the secrets of their data centers, according to Richard Fichera, an analyst at Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester
Research Inc. The payoff for Facebook may come by creating a
community of suppliers that make products with the exact
specifications it uses, he said in a  blog posting .  No Disruptions  Facebook, the most visited U.S. website, has added an ever-
growing range of features while striving to avoid the kind of
disruptions that have plagued rivals, including Twitter Inc. The
company’s new data center in Prineville, Oregon, is using the
Open Compute technology to handle the increasing loads
efficiently, Fichera said.  The company has seen revenue soar as its user base grows
and it attracts advertisers such as Starbucks Corp. and JetBlue
Airways Corp. Facebook may have reached $2 billion in sales last
year, three people familiar with the matter said in December.  Facebook announced in January that it raised $1.5 billion
from investors led by Goldman Sachs Group Inc., placing a $50
billion valuation on the closely held business.  The company, founded in 2004, passed Google last year to
become the most visited website in the U.S., according to
Experian Hitwise, an Internet-tracking firm in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  