-- 
Fed’s Pianalto Say Monetary Policy Remains ‘Warranted’

-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 
2011-04-07T08:05:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/fed-s-pianalto-says-continuation-of-monetary-policy-warranted-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland
President  Sandra Pianalto  said that the continuation of the
Fed’s current monetary policy is warranted and that she favored
the central bank having a public inflation target.  “Economic conditions, including low levels of resource
utilization, subdued inflation trends, and stable long-term
inflation expectations, warrant the continuation of our current
monetary policy stance,” Pianalto said today in the text of
remarks prepared for a speech in  Rome .  Fed policy makers at a meeting last month differed over
whether to begin removing record stimulus in 2011, according to
minutes of their March 15 meeting released this week. “A few
participants indicated that economic conditions might warrant a
move toward less-accommodative monetary policy this year; a few
others noted that exceptional policy accommodation could be
appropriate beyond 2011,” according to the minutes.  Pianalto indicated today that she sees rates remaining low
for some time.  “My outlook for economic growth and inflation assumes that
we complete our asset purchase program as originally scheduled
and keep our federal funds rate target at exceptionally low
levels for an extended period,” she said.  Inflation remains a risk and the Fed is “watching
carefully for any signs of an unanticipated spillover from oil
and other commodity prices into underlying inflation measures,”
she said. “A key to preventing this spillover is to keep long-
run inflation expectations anchored.”  “It could be an opportune time for the FOMC to be more
specific and publicly announce an explicit numerical inflation
objective,” she said.  Pianalto, 56, became president of the Cleveland Fed in
2003. She is not a voting member of the FOMC this year and has
never dissented from a FOMC decision. Fed presidents rotate
voting on monetary policy, with Pianalto voting every other
year.  “These are challenging times for our economy, and they are
compounded by the unrest we are seeing in the Middle East and
North Africa. And the devastating human tragedy in  Japan ,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story: 