-- 
Fed’s Lacker Says U.S. Should Curtail Financial Safety Net

-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 
2011-04-07T12:35:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/fed-s-lacker-says-u-s-should-scale-back-financial-safety-net.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond
President Jeffrey Lacker said U.S. regulators should scale back
the federal safety net, which expanded to cover more than half
the financial system during the credit crisis.  “My broad sense is that we would be better off if we were
to significantly scale back the boundaries of the government-
managed portion of the financial sector to include fewer
institutions and their respective liabilities,” Lacker said
today in a speech at the Ferrum College Forum in Roanoke, VA.  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law in July by President
 Barack Obama , orders financial regulators to monitor risk and
impose stricter capital and liquidity guidelines for the biggest
financial institutions. Such standards are aimed at averting
taxpayer-funded bailouts and to prevent banks from becoming so
large that their failure could lead to a financial crisis.  “Regulation is not foolproof, however, and what’s more, it
imposes significant burdens of its own,” Lacker said.  The federal safety net expanded during the credit crisis as
the Fed helped prevent a collapse of Bear Stearns Cos. and
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , purchasing high risk
securities from Bear Stearns and loaning $85 billion to AIG.  Regulators also insured the assets of Citigroup Inc., and
the liabilities of some banks. As of February, 66 banks had $261
billion in outstanding debt guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp.’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.  Safety Net  Lacker said the overall federal financial safety net
covered 62 percent of the financial sector at the end of 2009,
up from 45 percent in 1999.  “I find it hard to believe that the most appropriate size
of the government financial safety net is anything close to
nearly two-thirds of the financial sector,” Lacker said.  U.S. central bankers said last month they plan to finish a
second round of so-called quantitative easing, buying a total of
$600 billion in  Treasury securities  through June. The program
has pushed the size of the Fed’s consolidated balance sheet to a
record $2.63 trillion in total assets. Lacker didn’t comment on
monetary policy in the text of his remarks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomgerg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  