-- 
Fed’s Regulation Q, Insider Trading Arrests: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-07T12:30:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/fed-s-regulation-q-google-insider-trading-arrests-satyam-compliance.html
The  Federal Reserve  said it proposed
a rule allowing member banks of the Fed system to pay interest
on demand-deposit accounts.  The rule would carry out a part of the Dodd-Frank Act of
2010 that repeals a section of the Federal Reserve Act giving
the central bank authority to prohibit such interest payments,
the Fed said yesterday in a statement in  Washington .  The Fed is seeking comment within 30 days of the proposed
rule’s publication in the Federal Register, on whether the
change will have implications for banks’ income and balance
sheets, short-term funding markets including overnight federal
funds, demand for interest-bearing deposits and the
“competitive burden” on smaller banks.  The rule is known as Regulation Q. The Dodd-Frank Act
regulation removes the Fed’s authority to prohibit such payments
effective July 21, 2011, the central bank said.  Compliance Policy  PCAOB Enters Into Cooperative Agreement With Swiss Regulators  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board announced an
agreement with Swiss regulators to permit joint inspections of
accounting firms in that country that audit, or participate in
audits, of companies whose securities trade on U.S. markets.  The Washington-based PCAOB announced the agreement in an e-
mail statement yesterday.  Google at White House as Washington Mulls Spectrum Sales  The Obama administration’s plan to allocate TV stations’
excess airwaves for use by wireless Internet services received
support from 112 economists at a White House event that featured
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s chief economist.  The effort would help move away from “old spectrum
allocations based on out-of-date assumptions,” the economists
said in a letter released yesterday at the White House.  The administration proposes paying TV broadcasters for
vacating little-used airwaves. The sale may bring almost $28
billion in auction fees, help meet burgeoning demand for
airwaves as more consumers turn to smartphones, and spark new
wireless industries, said  Council of Economic Advisers  Chairman
Austan Goolsbee.  The administration wants Congress to give the FCC authority
to set up auctions that would draw voluntary participation from
broadcasters. Lawmakers plan  an initial hearing  next week before
a House subcommittee on communications and technology.  For more, click here.  Bad Loans Weaken Community Banks, Raise Concerns in Congress  Community banks, which account for  291 of the 345  U.S. bank
failures since 2008, are asking Congress for relief from
increased regulatory scrutiny as they struggle with portfolios
of delinquent commercial real estate loans.  Hundreds of these smaller institutions remain weak and have
been unable to raise capital to repay taxpayer dollars borrowed
through the federal Troubled Asset Relief Program during the
financial crisis two years ago.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and other regulators
have responded by stepping up examinations and reporting
requirements for many of the nation’s  7,000  community lenders,
defined as those with $1 billion or less in assets. The banks
say this is making their recovery even harder, and they planned
to press for relief at a congressional hearing yesterday.  For more, click here.  U.K. to Review Covered-Bond Regulation to Lure Investors  The U.K. Treasury and Financial Services Authority are
proposing a review of covered-bond regulation to help make the
notes more attractive to investors.  Common reporting standards on collateral underlying the
securities will help increase transparency for investors, the
FSA said in a  statement . Covered bonds, pioneered in 18th-
century Prussia to finance agriculture, are typically backed by
mortgages and public-sector loans.  Proposals to strengthen regulation of the notes come as
U.K. banks double sales of the securities. British lenders sold
$17.8 billion of covered bonds so far this year compared with
$8.45 billion in the same period of 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Market participants are being asked to submit comments on
the proposals by July 1.  German State Banks Protest Capital Exclusion in Stress Tests  Norddeutsche Landesbank, Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen and
other German lenders are making a last-ditch attempt to keep
European regulators from excluding one type of capital from the
latest round of stress tests.  The  European Banking Authority , the organization overseeing
the exams, may exclude a form of non-voting capital common among
German state-owned banks known as silent participations, the
lenders say. The regulator is scheduled to reveal which types of
capital it will accept and how much a bank must hold to pass the
test tomorrow, a person familiar with the matter said.  The possible exclusion of silent participations drew
protest from  Germany ’s banking associations and the lenders. The
 Association of German Public Sector Banks , which represents the
country’s state-owned lenders, including Landesbanken, said last
month that silent participations should count as core capital
because during the 2011-2012 timeframe for the stress tests such
instruments are still valid as capital. New Basel III rules give
lenders until 2019 to fully comply.  For more, click here.  German Lawmakers Snub Move by Banks to Limit Levy Paid to Fund  German lawmakers yesterday snubbed efforts by the country’s
banks to limit the levy they have to pay into a rescue fund
after decreeing that the lenders have to chip in even in years
of weak profit or losses.  The Berlin-based BDB group of private banks, which
represents lenders including  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  and Deutsche Bank
AG, tried to stymie a rule passed yesterday that compels banks
to pay retroactively into the fund if they struggle to pay the
fee in any one year. In rejecting the banks’ request, the ruling
coalition said it seeks continuous input into the fund.  The decree or ordinance on which lawmakers voted yesterday
goes a step further than legislation passed last year to create
a new privately financed bank rescue fund. The legislation left
open the question of whether banks would need to contribute
retroactively into the fund in years of weak business. Germany
is phasing out a bank rescue fund paid by taxpayers formed in
2008 and replacing it with a bank-financed rescue fund that was
formed in January.  Germany aims to raise as much as 70 billion euros ($100
billion) for the fund.  Compliance Action  SEC  Fannie Mae  Probe Said to Examine CEO’s Testimony to Congress  Fannie Mae Chief Executive Officer  Daniel Mudd  reported to
Congress, while the housing market deteriorated in April 2007,
that the firm’s exposure to subprime loans “remains minimal,
less than 2.5 percent of our book.”  Within 18 months, U.S. regulators seized the government-
sponsored mortgage firm and its smaller sibling,  Freddie Mac ,
after losses on soured loans pushed them to the brink of
insolvency. The two firms have drawn more than $150 billion in
life support from the Treasury since then.  Mudd’s statements to Congress are being scrutinized as part
of a Securities and Exchange Commission probe, according to a
person briefed on the matter. Regulators may be examining what
Mudd knew about the loans and how he defined subprime when he
testified before the  House Financial Services Committee .  Mudd has been CEO of Fortress Investment Group LLC since
2009. After receiving a Wells notice, Mudd said in a March 11
statement that he “could not disagree more” with the SEC
staff’s decision to pursue claims. “These disclosures and
procedures that are subject of the staff’s investigation were
accurate and complete,” he said in the statement.  The questions are part of a larger investigation into
whether Washington-based Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac of McLean,
Virginia, told investors enough about the risky loans they
loaded into their portfolios as the credit crisis loomed,
according to two other people with direct knowledge of the
investigation.  Freddie Mac spokesman Michael Cosgrove and SEC spokesman
John Nester declined to comment on the investigation.  For more, click here, and click here.  Basel Develops Method to Identify Banks Posing Systemic Risk  International regulators have agreed on a way to identify
the banks that must hold extra capital reserves to avoid
collapses that would undermine global financial stability.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision has “developed
a methodology that embodies the key components of systemic
importance,” Stefan Walter, the group’s secretary general, said
in comments prepared for a speech in Basel yesterday. This would
allow a “differentiated treatment” of banks “without needing
to specify a fixed list.”  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  Chief Executive Officer Josef Ackermann
last month criticized efforts to force the world’s biggest
lenders to hold extra reserves. The Group of 20 nations has
called for capital surcharges for lenders whose failure would
imperil the wider financial system.  The Basel group’s parameters for measuring the lenders
“are size, interconnectedness, substitutability, global
activity and complexity,” Walter said.  Listing banks eligible for the surcharge would be based on
“spurious criteria, which, in turn, will create incentives to
manipulate such lists for political reasons,” Ackermann said
last month.  For more, click here.  Courts  RBS Prosecution Deal Extended Over U.S. Compliance Concern  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , Britain’s biggest
government-owned lender, will be subject to a deferred-
prosecution agreement with the U.S. on conspiracy and money-
laundering allegations for another seven months.  U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly in Washington
ordered the extension at the request of prosecutors, who said
they had “additional concerns,” about the bank’s compliance
program, and with agreement by the bank.  Royal Bank and the  Justice Department  reached a deal in May
to settle charges that ABN Amro Bank, which was acquired by a
group including Royal Bank in 2007, conspired to defraud the
U.S. by engaging in transactions with state sponsors of
terrorism. The agreement, which required a forfeiture of $500
million, was originally set to expire May 10. The expiration
date was changed to Dec. 31.  A lawyer for Royal Bank, Nicolas Bourtin, told the judge
that while the bank “may not agree fully” with the Justice
Department, it understands “their concerns” and is “happy to
work with them to address it.”  The case is U.S. v. The Royal Bank of Scotland, 10-
cr-00124, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  Sun, 3Com Tips Passed in Insider-Trading Scheme, U.S. Says  A former Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC attorney
passed mergers and acquisition data in an insider-trading scheme
that netted more than $32 million in illicit profits, U.S.
prosecutors charged yesterday.  Matthew Kluger stole non-public data on companies including
Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp. and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM) , according to
a Federal Bureau of Investigation arrest complaint. Kluger
passed tips to a conspirator who gave them to Garrett Bauer, a
stock trader, according to the complaint. Kluger made at least
$500,000 on the scheme, the government said.  Bauer was arrested yesterday in Manhattan and Kluger was
arrested at home in Oakton.  Kluger appeared without a lawyer yesterday in federal court
in Alexandria, Virginia, where U.S. Magistrate Judge Theresa
Buchanan ordered him held without bail. The judge set a bail and
preliminary hearing for April 8. Kluger asked the judge to
appoint a lawyer for him. Bauer was scheduled to appear
yesterday in federal court in Newark.  Kluger, who worked in the Washington office of Wilson
Sonsini from December 2005 to March 2011, also passed illegal
tips when he worked at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher & Flom LLP
from 1998 to 2001 and during his employment at Cravath Swaine &
Moore LLP from 1994 to 1997, according to the complaint.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also filed a
civil complaint against Kluger, 50, of Oakton, Virginia, and
Bauer, 43, of  New York .  Courtney Chiang Dorman, a senior vice president at Wilson
Sonsini, didn’t immediately return a phone call or e-mail
seeking comment. Cravath spokeswoman Robin Shanzer didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  “We have strict policies that protect our clients’
confidential information, which we monitor closely,” Skadden
spokesman Brendan Intindola said in a statement. “We are
cooperating fully with the government in this matter.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Garrett Bauer, 11-mj-3536,
U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Matthew H. Kluger
and Garrett D. Bauer, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  For more, click here.  Satyam Climbs as Software Exporter Settles Fraud Claims  Satyam Computer Services Ltd. (SCS) , the software exporter
embroiled in  India ’s biggest corporate fraud probe, climbed in
Mumbai trading after it agreed to settle U.S. regulatory claims
that it overstated revenue, income and cash balances by more
than $1 billion over five years.  The stock was the best performer yesterday on the 1,023-
member  MSCI AC Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index.  Satyam will pay $10 million to resolve the lawsuit, the
Securities and Exchange Commission said in a complaint filed
April 5 at federal court in Washington.  The settlement is a first step toward Satyam getting
relisted on the New York Stock Exchange and the company still
needs to file the updated audited financials for the past three
years, said Hitesh Shah, an analyst at IDFC Securities Ltd. in
Mumbai.  The Hyderabad, India-based company reported its first
annual earnings in two years in September after former Chairman
Ramalinga Raju disclosed in January 2009 that he overstated
Satyam’s assets by $1 billion, triggering a stock plunge and
investor lawsuits in the U.S.  Stanford Bank Records Fight Belongs Under Hague, Judge Says  R. Allen Stanford’s court-appointed receiver should pursue
Swiss banking records he says are held by a unit of Paris-based
 Societe Generale (GLE)  through the Hague Convention and not U.S.
courts, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge David Godbey in Dallas yesterday
rejected court-appointed receiver Ralph Janvey’s request for an
order compelling a Lausanne, Switzerland-based unit of the Paris
bank to produce its records of any accounts held by Stanford
personally or through one of his businesses since Jan. 1, 2000.  Stanford is civilly and criminally accused by the U.S. of
leading a $7 billion investment-fraud scheme through the sale of
certificates of deposit by Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank Ltd. He has denied any wrongdoing.  The financier allegedly routed more than $100 million in
investor funds through the Swiss bank accounts, Janvey told the
judge in Feb. 22 court papers.  Responding to the receiver’s demand, Societe Generale
lawyers told the court their client is bound by Swiss banking
secrecy laws, the violation of which could result in their being
prosecuted.  SocGen lawyer Noelle Reed didn’t immediately return an e-
mail seeking comment yesterday.  The SEC case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank Ltd., 09-cv-00298, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas). The criminal case is
U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of Texas (Houston).  Interviews/Speeches  CFTC May Need to Re-Propose Swap-Trading Rules, Sommers Says  The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  may need to
re-propose rules, required under the Dodd-Frank Act, to allow
more flexibility in swap-trading systems, said Jill E. Sommers,
one of five agency commissioners.  Sommers made the remarks in a speech prepared for
 OpenLink’s 2011 Worldwide User Conference  in New Orleans.  The rule defining so-called swap execution facilities is
“overly restrictive” and may limit the number of swaps that
can be traded on the new platforms, Sommers said.  Financial regulators “should adopt a model that provides
the maximum amount of flexibility as to the method of trading
for swaps, whether cleared, uncleared, liquid or bespoke,” said
Sommers, one of two Republican commissioners. The agency is
required under the law to complete rules by mid-July.  Gary
Gensler , CFTC chairman, has said that some rules will be adopted
later in the year.  Barclays’s Diamond Sees Opportunities in Africa: Charlie Rose  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer Robert Diamond talked
with Charlie Rose about the bank’s business strategy.  Diamond also discussed regulatory matters, including the
Dodd-Frank Act, Basel III, bank regulation, “too-big-to-fail,”
systemic risks, and compensation.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story: 
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 