-- 
Fed’s Raskin Says Concentrated Banking System Lacks Resiliency

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 
2011-04-07T14:45:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/fed-s-raskin-says-concentrated-banking-system-lacks-resiliency.html
Federal Reserve Governor  Sarah Bloom Raskin  said regulators implementing the Dodd-Frank Act should
promote the emergence of a financial industry with companies of
varying size and complexity.  “A financial system dominated by a handful of large
institutions is unlikely to be resilient in the face of a
crisis,” Raskin said today in the text of a speech in  New York .
“A diffuse financial system -- one with a diverse range of
institutions of varying size and complexity -- is preferable to
a system that is highly concentrated.”  President  Barack Obama  in July signed into law legislation
creating many regulations applying to the largest banks, such as
standards for banks deemed “systemically important.” Raskin,
appointed by Obama in October, is on a central bank subcommittee
with Fed Governor  Elizabeth Duke  charged with monitoring how the
Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul affects community and small
banks.  “We need to create within the Dodd-Frank regulatory
architecture a supervisory and examination program that
encourages diversification and forward-looking strategies as a
means to ensuring a healthy financial system and a steady flow
of loans to creditworthy borrowers,” Raskin said at the New
York Fed’s Community Banker Conference.  Maryann Hunter, the deputy director of the Fed’s division
of banking supervision and regulation, testified to Congress
yesterday that the Fed is “consistently” told by community
banks, defined as those with $10 billion or less in assets, that
new regulations created last year by the Dodd-Frank Act, are a
“key challenge and concern.”  Monetary Policy   Raskin, 49, the former Maryland commissioner of financial
regulation, didn’t discuss monetary policy in her speech. She
has voted to support the Fed’s $600 billion expansion of record
monetary stimulus at her first four Federal Open Market
Committee meetings.  “The need for diversification is one of the great lessons
of the crisis,” Raskin said. “In order to sustain the economic
recovery, we need strong, well-run community banks that operate
in a framework of smart and effective supervision.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  