-- 
Ferguson Feels No Guilt as Manchester United Gets Penalty Break at Chelsea

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-07T00:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ferguson-feels-no-guilt-as-manchester-united-gets-penalty-break-at-chelsea.html
Manchester United manager  Alex Ferguson  said a last-minute penalty decision that went his
team’s way in its Champions League win over Chelsea may have
been payback for perceived past misfortunes at Stamford Bridge.  Referee Alberto Mallenco rejected Chelsea’s penalty appeals
last night when  Patrice Evra  felled Ramires.  Wayne Rooney ’s goal
gave United a 1-0 victory in the first match of the two-game
quarterfinal. The second leg is April 12 in Manchester.  “Somebody said it could have been a penalty,” Ferguson
told reporters. “If it was, it would be the first decision we
got here in seven years against them so I think we’re due one. I
don’t feel guilty about that at all.”  Ferguson is serving a five-game touchline ban in English
soccer after he criticized referee  Martin Atkinson ’s performance
in United’s Premier League loss to Chelsea on March 1. Ferguson
said after that game that Chelsea’s  David Luiz  should have been
red-carded and that the Blues got away with too many fouls.  Last night’s match was the first meeting between the teams
in  Europe ’s elite club competition since United beat Chelsea on
penalty kicks in the 2008 final in Moscow to win its third
European Cup title.  The winner of the quarterfinal is likely to meet Schalke in
the final four. The German team won 5-2 at defending champion
Inter Milan two days ago.  Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti  said his team had been
denied what was a “clear” penalty when Ramires tumbled under
Evra’s challenge in the area.  ‘Not Easy’  “In the last minute I understand it’s not easy to give a
penalty; you need to have personality, courage and so on,”
Ancelotti told reporters. “Not always do referees have these
kinds of skills.”  Rooney, who scored a hat trick in United’s 4-2 win at West
Ham five days ago, guided the ball into the corner of the goal
in the 24th minute after  Ryan Giggs  ran onto a long pass and
pulled the ball back for the England striker.  Chelsea’s best chance came when  Didier Drogba  and record 50
million-pound ($81.6 million) signing  Fernando Torres  combined
just before halftime.  Drogba crossed from the left and Torres, unmarked in front
of goal, could only direct the ball against the far post.  Frank Lampard ’s shot on the rebound was cleared off the line by Evra.
It was only the third time Drogba and Torres were paired
together since the Spaniard joined from Liverpool in January.
He’s now gone 617 minutes without a goal for the Blues.  “We have to have confidence” in Torres, Ancelotti said.
“He has to have confidence and keep going, and he’ll score.”  Rooney Run  While Chelsea’s strikers misfired, Rooney is returning to
form as United’s bid to win three trophies reaches a crucial
stage, Ferguson said. The 25-year-old had scored only nine goals
in 31 games for United this season before his three at West Ham.  “We’re pleased with his performance,” Ferguson said of
Rooney. “He’s now more regular in his goal scoring which in the
second half of the season is going to be important to us.”  United leads the Premier League by seven points and meets
Manchester City in the F.A. Cup semifinals on April 16. Ferguson
said he’s told his squad to focus on playing at their best and
not on landmarks like a repeat of United’s treble trophy-winning
success of 1999.  “I’ve never thought about the treble,” Ferguson said.
“We’re in every competition and we’ll try our best. When you go
out on that field, you have to win the game. That’s the attitude
of  Manchester United . We have to do that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  