-- 
Ferrari’s $300,000 Meat Eater Rips Asphalt, Churns Guts: Review

-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ferrari-s-300-000-meat-eater-tears-asphalt-churns-guts-jason-h-harper.html
Ferrari keeps its secrets better
than a Cold War spy agency. No one saw the radically-shaped,
two-door, four-seat  Ferrari Four  coming.  It broke cover in late January, along with the news that it
would be the company’s first-ever all-wheel-drive.  Two months later, I’m tucked behind the wheel of the
$300,000  FF , testing its V-12-powered moves deep in the Dolomite
mountains of northern  Italy . Talk about a happy turn of events.  Painted a luminous blue, my Ferrari is tackling a series of
thickly stacked switchbacks, white snow spilling onto the
asphalt on both sides.  A skier on a slope alongside the road fixates on the car
and wipes out.  I know how he feels, breathing shallowly as I steer around
an uphill hairpin and hammer the gas, engaging the AWD. A risky
move in an expensive car that isn’t yours. There’s only a slight
chirp of tires as I drift around the wickedly sharp turn.  Then I’m through and tearing up the hill at 60. The FF is
deceptively civil -- except for the banshee howl of the front-
mounted 651-horsepower motor that could cause avalanches.  South Tyrol’s vast landscape offers snow-covered crags and
DayGlo-green valley grasses. Dry and wet, cold and sunny --
ideal for testing an AWD system.  While  Lamborghini  uses AWD on all its cars, Ferrari has
always maintained that rear-wheel-drive is performance king.  Perhaps that’s why it insists this system is meant only for
inclement weather, as if the FF were a snow plow with especially
nice leather bucket seats.  ‘That’s a Ferrari?’  Either way, in addition to the denizens of  Aspen  and St.
Moritz, it will also appeal in emerging markets like  China ,
 Russia  and  India , since it accommodates four adults and is
robust enough to handle all types of roads.  The funky shape is what insiders call a “shooting brake,”
essentially a long nose mated to a two-door cockpit and
hatchback. Some say it’s a far cry from what a Ferrari should
be, but I like the design gumption.  It’s officially the replacement for the less-than-adored
four-seat 612 Scaglietti, but over pre-dinner drinks, Ferrari
chairman Luca di Montezemolo told me: “It’s revolution, not
evolution. We started with a blank sheet of paper. To me it’s an
emotional car.”  The FF looks oversize in photos, but the shotgun wedding of
four seats and aggressive sports styling is more organic in real
life. The gaping black front grill is as fearsome as the mouth
of a Great White. It seems ready to snack on lesser vehicles
unfortunate enough to be caught in the asphalt current.  Optional DVD  Though the word “practical” is surely Ferrari anathema,
the rear hatch has a big opening and the back seats also fold
down. Turns out you can take it with you after all.  The word “Ferrari” is embossed front and center on the
dashboard -- as if you might forget -- in addition to an “FF”
logo and the prancing horse emblem on the wheel.  Big windows let in lots of light and you can generally see
well, even from the back seats, which are set slightly higher
than those in front. The front seats are deep, ideal for
capturing your frame as G forces pound you into the leather.  As for actually sitting in back: Though I had to slouch, my
head didn’t touch the headliner.  About those two optional DVD flatscreens in the seatbacks:
Sorry, but if a $300,000 sports car can’t keep you amused,
you’ve been either overindulged or overstimulated.  Practicality aside, it’s still a Ferrari. The FF hits 62
mph in 3.7 seconds with a top speed of more than 200. In a
single hard blast down a curving section of the Autostrada, my
guts turned to jelly. It’s fast.  Uphill, Downhill Racer  There are no obvious drawbacks to the AWD. Goose the gas on
tight curves and some torque will transfer to the front wheels.
But it always maintains a significant rear-wheel bias. There’s
little to no understeer.  Suspension is firm, but I can’t think of another car that
feels so supremely confident on all four wheels, and of its
rightful place on the road. The same 7-speed, double-clutch,
automated transmission found in the 458 Italia is here, too.
Technical brilliance.  The steering wheel is a bit too light and the kinetic
information transmitted about road conditions is scant. If you
ignore the shift paddles and leave it in automatic (slacker!),
downshifts come on lazily even when you stomp on the gas to make
a sudden pass.  But, you know, geez. A Ferrari and the Italian Alps. I
circle to the top of a snow-slicked plateau and briefly get a
glimpse of the horizon -- icy escarpments sparking in late
winter sun -- before dropping down the other side and attacking
the winding road.  A short time ago I didn’t even know this car existed. Now
it’s all I can think about.  The 2012 Ferrari FF At a Glance  Engine: 6.3-liter V-12 with 651 horsepower and 504 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: 7-speed dual-clutch automated.  Speed: 0 to 62 mph in 3.7 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 12 city; 18 highway (estimated).  Price as tested: $335,000 (estimated).  Best feature: Ferrari performance meets hatchback  practicality.  Worst feature: Having to listen to colleagues  pontificate about whether it looks like a “real” Ferrari.  Target buyer:  The Ferrari lover with friends.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 