-- 
For-Profit Colleges Face State Crackdowns as U.S. Rules Delayed

-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/for-profit-colleges-face-state-crackdowns-as-u-s-rules-delayed.html
For-profit colleges, criticized by
the U.S. for their recruitment practices, are facing increased
state regulations as the government weighs measures to tighten
access to federal student aid.  Maryland’s legislature passed a bill April 4 that would
boost the state’s regulation of for-profit colleges. California
Governor  Jerry Brown  signed a measure March 24 limiting their
eligibility for some grants. At least 16 states have proposed or
enacted laws affecting for-profit colleges this year, according
to the  National Conference of State Legislatures  in Denver.  States impatient for federal rules are taking action, said
 Kentucky  State Representative  Reginald Meeks . The Education
Department delayed plans to restrict for-profit colleges’ access
to $30 billion in U.S. funds last year after the industry
doubled spending on lobbying. Lawmakers in the Republican-led
U.S. House of Representatives made a proposal to block the
regulations by barring funding.  “On the local level, I don’t think we should wait at all
for Congress or the federal government to act,” said Meeks, a
Louisville Democrat who sponsored a measure to restrict for-
profit colleges.  Restrictions on student aid that single out for-profit
colleges are unfair, said  Harris Miller , president of the
 Association of Private Sector Colleges and Universities , a
Washington-based trade group. State legislators clamping down on
aid to for-profit colleges want to cut education budgets, and
they’re reacting to increased scrutiny of the sector in
 Washington , he said.  ‘Artificial Barriers’  “We’d be concerned about states that put up artificial
barriers to student aid,” Miller said in a telephone interview.
“They’re saying ‘You can get this grant, but you can’t go to
this school.’”  Miller said he’s concerned that anti-industry regulations
may spread from state to state. His trade group, formerly the
Career College Association, spent $1.1 million on Washington
lobbying in 2010, five times as much as in 2009.  Industrywide, the combined spending by Miller’s group and
companies including  Corinthian Colleges Inc. (COCO) , based in Santa
Ana, California, and  Washington Post Co. (WPO) ’s Kaplan Higher
Education unit rose to $6.6 million in 2010 from $2.6 million a
year earlier, according to Senate records and the Center for
Responsive Politics, a Washington-based research group.  The Education Department said last year that it will
release regulations in early 2011 that will tie for-profit
colleges’ eligibility for federal funds to graduates’ incomes
and loan repayment rates. The department delayed the rules after
getting a record 91,000 letters, most of them opposed to the
proposal.  States Investigate  State attorneys general in Kentucky, Florida,  Iowa  and
 Illinois  are investigating for-profit colleges after a U.S.
government probe released in August found evidence of misleading
recruitment practices. While the report was revised in November,
its conclusions were unchanged. The report was “erroneous and
deeply biased,” the Coalition for Educational Success, a
Chicago-based industry group, said in February.  Iowa Senator Tom Harkin, the Democrat who chairs the Senate
education committee, has held four hearings on for-profit
colleges’ recruitment, graduation rates and student-loan defaults
that are twice as high as those of comparable public institutions.
Harkin got $211,000 in support for his re-election from educators
and their families last year, according to the Center for
Responsive Politics.  Lawmakers in  Arizona , Iowa, Idaho,  Massachusetts ,
 Minnesota ,  Missouri , Mississippi,  North Carolina , North Dakota,
Nebraska,  New York ,  Texas  and Utah have also proposed bills this
year relating to for-profit colleges, according to the
conference of legislatures. Most of the measures would boost
oversight of education companies or restrict sales practices.  Maryland Bill  The Maryland measure responds to the rapid growth of for-
profit colleges, said  Paul Pinsky , a Democratic state senator
from Prince George’s county. His bill would require education
companies to create a fund to reimburse students whose schools
close abruptly, and prohibit payment to recruiters based on the
number of students they sign up. The proposal would wean for-
profit colleges off state aid within five years.  “You can’t turn on the TV without seeing ads for a new
for-profit college,” Pinsky said in a telephone interview.
“The numbers have grown significantly.”  Maryland Governor Martin O’Malley, a Democrat, supports the
legislation and plans to sign it, said Shaun Adamec, a spokesman
for the governor.  California  Regulation  The California regulation will tie students’ eligibility
for state tuition funds, called  Cal Grants , to their
institutions’ loan-default rates. Almost all the schools whose
students would be rendered ineligible for the aid are for-profit
colleges, according to an analysis by the  California Legislative
Analyst’s Office .  “The state is spending tens of millions of dollars on for-
profit colleges and getting very little back on its
investment,” said Mark Leno, a Democratic state senator from
 San Francisco , who sponsored California’s measure.  For-profit colleges received $94 million in Cal Grants in
the 2009-2010 award year, according to state records. Some
colleges owned by Carmel, Indiana-based ITT Educational Services 
Inc., Washington Post’s Kaplan business, Corinthian, and closely 
held Alta Colleges Inc., operator of the Westwood Colleges chain,
would lose eligibility under the measure, according to the
legislative analyst’s office.  “It’s disappointing that some students will lose the
opportunity to pursue the education of their choice,” Tom Hoyt,
a Kaplan spokesman, said in an e-mail. Gil Rudawsky, a spokesman
for Alta, declined to comment.  Apollo’s Lobbying  Apollo Group Inc. (APOL) , the nation’s biggest for-profit college
company, paid Governmental Advocates Inc. more than $240,000 to
lobby California lawmakers on issues including Cal Grants during
the 2009-2010 session, according to a state website. In the same
period, Corinthian paid Sacramento, California-based Lehman Levi
Pappas & Sadler $194,000 to lobby on Cal Grants and other
proposed legislation. Manny Rivera, an Apollo spokesman declined
to comment on the company’s lobbying. Kent Jenkins, a spokesman
for Corinthian, also declined to comment.  Meeks, the Louisville representative, filed a bill that
would tighten regulation on education companies after the
Kentucky legislature held hearings on for-profit colleges last
year. During the session, students said a state oversight panel
failed to respond to their concerns that teachers weren’t
prepared for their classes.  ‘Dismissive Manner’  “We had a situation where complaints were handled in a
dismissive manner or not investigated at all,” Meeks said in a
telephone interview.  Meeks’s bill would shrink the size of the board and the
proportion of representatives from for-profit colleges.
Oversight of for-profit colleges that offer two-year degrees
would be shifted to a separate panel that also supervises public
universities.  Apollo spent $24,000 on lobbying in Kentucky last year,
according to the state’s Legislative Ethics Commission. In the
same period, the Kentucky Association for Career and Technical
Education, an industry group, spent $4,284 on lobbying.  While most of the pending and enacted state legislation
would further regulate the education industry, a proposed
Arizona tax bill may benefit Phoenix-based Apollo and  Grand
Canyon Education Inc. (LOPE) , also in Phoenix.  The bill, which would give a tax break to all local
businesses selling services outside of Arizona, may cost the
state as much as $33.2 million annually, according to an
estimate by the state  Department of Revenue . Arizona faces a
projected $1.15 billion deficit for the 2011-2012 fiscal year.  The measure would protect Arizona businesses from being
taxed twice on sales in other states, said Fred Lockhart,
executive director of the  Arizona Private School Association . It
was supported by both Democrats and Republicans in the state
legislature, he said.  The bill would “restore tax fairness” and help stimulate
job growth in the state, said Apollo’s Rivera. State Senator
 Rick Murphy  of Glendale, who sponsored the bill, didn’t return
calls seeking comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in  Boston  at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at 
 jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  