-- 
Hague Rules Out Reversing U.K. Defense Cuts, Says Reports Wrong

-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-04-08T14:24:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/fox-won-t-have-to-make-further-cuts-in-british-defense-programs.html
Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
ruled out any reversal of cuts to Britain’s defense spending,
dismissing media reports that military operations against Libya
have forced a rethink.  The defense ministry has to reduce its budget by 8 percent
over four years to tackle a 38 billion-pound ($62 billion)
shortfall. Plans announced in October following a review
included the ordering of fewer, cheaper planes for one new
 aircraft carrier  and the possible mothballing of a second, which
will carry only helicopters.  Newspapers including The  Daily Telegraph  and The Sun
reported today that Prime Minister  David Cameron  was considering
re-opening the review and scaling down the cuts. That was in
light of military commitments in Libya, where British forces are
part of a mission to protect civilians from attacks by Muammar Qaddafi’s forces, and elsewhere.  “These major decisions are not being reopened,” Hague
told Sky News television today. “It would be wrong to think
that we were reopening the defense review.”  The opposition  Labour Party ’s defense spokesman, Jim Murphy, criticized the government’s approach.  “We all woke up this morning to front-page newspaper
headlines that the government had briefed they were opening
parts of the defense review and what we’re having by lunchtime
is them running away from their own planted story,” Murphy told
 BBC  News television. “This isn’t any way to treat defense
policy and it isn’t any way to treat the forces’ families of
people who are serving with remarkable bravery on behalf of our
country.”  Warplane Sales  The defense ministry said last night that it had reached
agreement with the Treasury on how to tackle a shortfall in its
budget for this year. Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  won’t have to
make further cuts to major equipment programs after being
allowed to account for revenue from future sales of surplus
warplanes early, a person familiar with the discussions said.  Fox said last month that savings already identified for the
fiscal year that started April 1 had fallen short of the target
set in the Strategic Defense and Security Review last October.
He was seeking extra savings of about 750 million pounds,
raising the risk that purchases of equipment such as  Boeing Co. (BA) 
Chinook helicopters would have to be scrapped.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is allowing the
defense ministry to book the receipts for the sale of
Eurofighter GmbH Typhoon aircraft in order for Fox to balance
his budget, even though no agreement on a sale has been reached
yet. A deal to export the planes would be valued at about 500
million pounds, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the discussions are not public.  Campaign Funding  The Treasury also agreed with the defense ministry that the
money to fund individual military campaigns such as that in
 Libya  can now fully come from central government funds, a change
to the previous arrangement where only 50 percent came from
central funds and the rest from the  defense budget , according to
an e-mailed statement from the ministry last night that did not
mention the Typhoon sales plan.  Further budget savings of more than 100 million pounds have
been found by renegotiating contracts with existing military
suppliers. More than 500 contracts will have been renegotiated
by the end of the year, the person said. The ministry has also
cut costs by reducing its liabilities for equipment maintenance
contracts and adjusting the costs of depreciation.  Other savings will be found by cutting marketing budgets,
reducing the number of civilians the ministry employs and
selling parts of the broadband spectrum currently owned by the
ministry but no longer needed.  Fox’s  Conservative Party  blames the previous Labour
administration for creating the shortfall in the defense budget.
Labour has called repeatedly for Fox to re-examine the cuts.  “The problem with the government’s security and defense
review is that it hasn’t survived the first contact with world
events,” Murphy told the BBC. “The fact is that HMS Cumberland
-- the Royal Navy ship and the crew that are doing marvelous
work off Libya -- it was its last journey, it was on the way to
be scrapped.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net  or
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  