-- 
French Troops Rescue Japanese Diplomats as Ivory Coast Fighting Continues

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i ,   F r a n z   W i l d   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-04-07T16:18:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/french-troops-rescue-japanese-diplomats-as-ivory-coast-fighting-continues.html
French commandos airlifted eight
people from the Japanese ambassador’s residence in  Ivory Coast ’s
main city, Abidjan, late yesterday, after it was seized and
looted by militiamen loyal to former leader Laurent Gbagbo, the
French Defense Ministry said.  Gbagbo’s forces had set up mortars and rockets on the roof
of the house and were firing on other homes in the neighborhood,
Colonel Thierry Burkhard, a French military spokesman, told
reporters in Paris. The fighters targeted the helicopters when
they first approached at about 11 p.m. They fled as commandos
dropped onto the roof of the house, he added.  “The minute the commandos showed up, they preferred to
slip away,” Burkhard said.  The operation came as forces loyal to Ivory Coast’s
president-elect,  Alassane Ouattara , besieged Gbagbo’s residence.
United Nations peacekeepers have also “encircled the last
defenders of former president  Laurent Gbagbo ,” French Defense
Minister Gerard Longuet said today in parliament.  Pro-Ouattara Republican Forces have swept through southern
Ivory Coast in the past month, beginning on March 31 an assault
on Abidjan, where residents said food and water are in short
supply after a week of fighting.  The crisis in the world’s top cocoa producer was triggered
by Gbagbo’s refusal to accept his loss in elections on Nov. 28
to Ouattara, who is recognized by the international community as
the winner. The former leader has retreated to a bunker in his
house and has rejected offers to end the standoff peacefully.  French Intervention  Five French helicopters participated in yesterday’s rescue
mission, destroying an armored vehicle and two  pickup trucks 
after they were fired on as they approached, Burkhard said.  The mission was the second major French military operation
in a week in its former West African colony. French and UN
helicopters attacked Gbagbo’s military installations in Abidjan
on April 4, an operation that led a number of Gbagbo’s
commanders to surrender.  Israel  has also requested French military assistance in
evacuating its diplomats,  Agence France-Presse  reported, citing
Alain Juppe,  France ’s foreign minister.  Legality  Russia’s Foreign Ministry called for an investigation of
the legality of French and United Nations military intervention
in Ivory Coast over the past week.  “Moscow is convinced that the Africans should solve their
problems themselves without outside intervention,” according to
a statement posted on the ministry’s website today.  Grocery stores in Abidjan are running short of food, while
hundreds of foreigners sheltering at a French military base on
the outskirts of the city have been running out of water
supplies, Jan Pieter Ohler, a Dutch diplomat, said in a phone
interview.  About 2,400 foreigners are at the base, of which a third
are French, a third Lebanese and a third from other countries,
Burkhard said. About 1,100 people have already been flown out of
country.  Cocoa for May delivery fell $7, or 0.1 percent, to $2,992,
as of 4:34 p.m. in  London . The continuing crisis threatens the
health of banks in West Africa that hold Ivory Coast securities
and that have exposure to the country’s economy, the largest in
the  West African Monetary Union , Fitch Ratings Ltd. said
yesterday.  Ivory Coast’s defaulted 2032 Eurobond rose 5.2 percent to
54.3 cents, its highest level since Ouattara was named the vote
winner on Dec. 2  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Jason McLure in Accra at 
797 or  jmclure@bloomberg.net ;
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 