-- 
Gamesa Falls Most Since July After UBS Downgrades Wind Manufacturers

-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 
2011-04-07T13:39:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/gamesa-falls-most-since-july-after-ubs-downgrades-wind-manufacturers.html
Gamesa Corp. Tecnologica SA fell the
most in eight months as UBS AG cut  Spain ’s largest wind-turbine
maker to “sell” from "neutral," citing pricing pressures and
more competition from Chinese producers.  Gamesa slid as much as 7.6 percent in  Madrid , the most
since July 30, while Vestas Wind Systems A/S, also downgraded
from “neutral” to “sell” in the UBS report, dropped as much
as 4 percent in Copenhagen.  After a “theme rally” that sparked a share rise this year
in Vestas and Gamesa, UBS analyst Patrick Hummel wrote in
today’s report that “there is no improvement in fundamentals.”  Compounding the pricing pressure on European wind
manufacturers is “increasing competition from Chinese producers
while there is no top-line growth in the European and North
American market,” he wrote.  Vestas, the world’s largest maker of wind turbines, and
Munich-based  Siemens AG (SIE)  are competing for supremacy in the
offshore wind market. Of the 3,045 megawatts of installed sea-
based wind capacity in  Europe  by the end of last year, 1,391
megawatts are from Vestas machines while Siemens has 1,357
megawatts, according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  “We doubt that Vestas/Gamesa will be gaining share
offshore, which is dominated by Siemens,” the UBS report said,
adding that it preferred “Goldwind over the Europeans.”  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co.,  China ’s second-
biggest maker of wind turbines, rose 1.2 percent today in  Hong
Kong . Citigroup Inc. in a March 27 report said the company was
facing a “challenging industry environment.”  Shift to Asia  U.S. and European wind-turbine makers, including Vestas and
 General Electric Co. (GE) , are shifting manufacturing to Asian
countries that have lower labor costs, higher margins and
faster-growing domestic markets.  Vestas was down 3 percent to 202.70 kroner at 3:06 p.m.
Danish time. Last week the Randers-based company unveiled a new
7-megawatt wind turbine aimed at helping vie with Siemens for
the biggest share of the offshore wind power market.  New installations of offshore wind turbines may surge 70
percent this year, topping 2010’s record 51 percent gain, the
European Wind Energy Association said in January.  Gamesa was 3.9 percent lower at 7.15 euros in Madrid,
trimming its gains this year to 25 percent.  Gamesa, GE and Siemens have announced plans for U.K.
offshore turbine manufacturing and research hubs to cater to
demand created by the country’s third round of seabed licensing.  The global offshore wind-power market could be worth as
much as 170 billion pounds ($277 billion) a year by 2050, the
U.K. government-funded Carbon Trust said last week. It said
Britain is likely to take about 10 percent of the market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  