-- 
Gandhi-Inspired Strike Corners Indian Government on Graft

-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 
2011-04-08T03:55:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/gandhi-inspired-hunger-strike-corners-indian-government-on-graft.html
Propped up by cushions and protected
from the summer sun by a white tent, 71-year-old social activist
Anna Hazare has vowed to fast to the death to rid  India  of the
corruption he says is its biggest curse.  Hazare, dressed in the white cap and tunic of India’s
independence movement, today enters the fourth day of a hunger
strike on a pavement in central New Delhi, a protest to demand a
role for him and his supporters in toughening draft anti-graft
laws. Making speeches and singing hymns, his fast harks back to
those of his inspiration, Indian freedom icon  Mahatma Gandhi .  “I can see so much injustice in the country, and the
government is not doing anything,” Hazare, a former soldier,
told reporters at the protest site April 6. Since the newly
independent country’s constitution came into force in 1950 “no
law has been made to put a brake on corruption.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , whose former
telecommunications minister is awaiting trial on corruption
charges linked to the 2008 sale of mobile-phone licenses, has
vowed to introduce the so-called Lokpal, or  Ombudsman  Bill, in
the next session of parliament. Critics, including Hazare, say
in their present form, the proposals lack the teeth to punish
those guilty of robbing the nation.  Yesterday the government blinked, agreeing to form a
committee of civic activists and government representatives to
study the bill’s provisions. Hazare said he would continue his
fast until his demands were met in full.  Growth Risk  “There are two outstanding issues on which there’s no
agreement -- that is issuing an official notification to form
the committee and making Hazare the chairman,”
Telecommunications Minister  Kapil Sibal  said in New Delhi after
talks that will continue today.  Investors in Indian shares consider graft as much of a
barrier to economic progress as inflation, J.P. Morgan Asset
Management said in a December 2010 report. Corruption in India
poses a risk to the South Asian nation’s target of lifting
economic growth above 9 percent and attracting overseas
investment, auditing and consulting company  KPMG  said in March.  As Hazare claims his first scalps -- a Cabinet member he
targeted resigned from a group of ministers tasked with tackling
corruption -- pressure is building on Singh. Demonstrations
continued in cities including Mumbai and Bangalore and
protesters staged a candle-lit march around a Delhi monument.
School children have been taken to see Hazare, who occasionally
sips water from a metal cup.  Phone Protest  As many as 570,000 people have pledged support to Hazare’s
campaign, registering their voice with a “missed call” --
dialing and quickly ringing off -- to a phone number listed on
the “India Against Corruption” website. Bollywood actor Aamir Khan has expressed backing.  “Corruption is all pervasive and has become a part and
parcel of society,” said N. Bhaskara Rao, a political analyst
at the Centre for Media Studies in  New Delhi . “The change will
have to come from within society. Citizens will have to become
an agent of change.”  Sonia Gandhi , president of the ruling Congress party,
appealed to Hazare to end his fast, assuring him that his views
will receive the government’s “full attention.”  “The issues he has raised are of grave public concern,”
Gandhi, the widow of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and no
relation to Mahatma Gandhi, said in a statement. “There can be
no two views on the urgent necessity of combating graft and
corruption in public life.”  Graft Ranking  India ranked 87th out of 178 countries in the 2010
 Corruption Perceptions  Index conducted by  Transparency
International , sharing that spot with Albania, Liberia and
 Jamaica .  Singh has had to bat away a barrage of graft allegations
after the country’s auditor said second-generation airwaves were
sold in 2008 at an “unbelievably low” price that stripped $31
billion from exchequer revenues. While former telecommunications
minister  Andimuthu Raja  is at the center of a probe, company
executives have been dragged in.  Billionaire  Anil Ambani  was questioned April 5 by a
parliamentary panel investigating the permit sale. He declined
to comment afterwards. Federal agencies April 2 laid charges
against executives from his Reliance Anil Dhirubhai Ambani Group
and officials at other Indian companies.  Cheating, Forgery  Raja, charged with conspiring to benefit companies
including the then-Swan Telecom, now known as Etisalat DB
Telecom India Pvt., and Unitech, resigned Nov. 14, two days
before the auditor’s report was submitted. He denies wrongdoing.  Raja and the other former government officials were charged
under the Prevention of Corruption Act. The company officials
were charged with “lesser offenses” under statutes relating to
conspiracy, cheating and forgery. The trial is set to start
April 13.  Government agencies are also investigating alleged fraud
surrounding last October’s Commonwealth Games in New Delhi.  Hazare, whose work in rural development won him some of
India’s most prestigious civilian awards, says the ombudsman
bill must create the machinery to independently investigate and
prosecute any government officer, judge or politician.  Others object to his methods. Hazare’s “fast unto death”
is “crossing the line of reasonableness,” Pratap Bhanu Mehta,
who heads the Centre for Policy Research in New Delhi, wrote in
the  Indian Express newspaper . “A sense of unbridled virtue can
also subvert democracy.”  The draft proposals, which were first introduced to
parliament in 1968, have never been passed due to a lack of
political will, say activists.  “This law has been pending in parliament for 42 years,”
said Arvind Kejriwal, who runs Parivartan, a citizen’s group in
New Delhi which works for accountability in governance. “What
have they done all these years? You can’t amend that law, you
have to replace that law.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Malavika Sharma in New Delhi at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net  