-- 
Gasoil Stockpiles Rise in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says

-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 
2011-04-07T15:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/gasoil-stockpiles-rise-in-europe-s-oil-trading-hub-pjk-says-1-.html
Gasoil stockpiles in independent
storage in  Europe ’s oil-trading hub rose to a three-month high,
boosted by imports, according to PJK International BV.  Gasoil inventories in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp increased
10 percent to 2.9 million metric tons in the week to today,
according to PJK, a Netherlands-based consultant. That’s the
highest since Dec. 16. The fuel, including heating oil and
diesel, arrived from  Canada ,  India ,  Latvia  and Russia. Cargoes
were sent to the U.K.  “The bigger parcels that came over were of diesel-quality
ahead of the driving season,” Pieter Kulsen, founder of PJK,
said by phone from Oosterhout, where the company is based.
Another reason for the rise in stockpiles is a lack of demand
from the agricultural sector, he said.  Gasoline stockpiles gained 1.5 percent to 877,000 tons as
the motor fuel arrived from  Denmark ,  France , Latvia, Russia,
 Sweden  and the U.K., according to PJK data. Cargoes were sent to
Benin, Denmark, Ghana, Nigeria,  South Africa  and the U.S.  Naphtha stores dropped 30 percent to 56,000 tons even as
cargoes arrived from the U.K., PJK data showed. Naphtha is used
in gasoline and petrochemical production.  Jet fuel declined for a fourth week to the lowest level
since Jan. 20. Inventories decreased 6.3 percent to 680,000
tons, according to PJK. Cargoes arrived from India and the
 United Arab Emirates .  Fuel oil inventories fell 15 percent to 767,000 tons on
exports to Far East Asia, PJK data showed. That’s the lowest
level since March 10. The product, used to power ships and
generate electricity, arrived from Brazil, Lithuania, Poland,
 Russia , the U.K. and the U.S.  The following table shows the weekly inventory changes in
thousands of tons for gasoline, naphtha, fuel oil and jet fuel
in independent storage in Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  