-- 
Gazprom Says Ukraine Gas Bill May Drop $8 Billion in Union

-- B y   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-07T14:48:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/gazprom-says-ukraine-may-save-8-billion-a-year-in-customs-union.html
OAO Gazprom, Russia’s gas exporter,
said  Ukraine  could save $8 billion a year on annual purchases by
joining a customs union with Russia,  Kazakhstan  and Belarus.  Ukraine would benefit from buying gas at Russian domestic
prices rather than rates linked to European prices, Gazprom
Deputy Chief Executive Officer Valery Golubev said today at an
energy forum in Moscow. The potential savings are based on
purchases of 40 billion cubic meters of gas a year, he said.  Russia, Belarus and Kazakhstan formed a customs union at
the start of this year, with duty-free energy exports. Gazprom
shipped about 70 percent of its Europe-bound gas across Ukraine
last year and the rest via Belarus. Price disputes with Ukraine
have disrupted European supplies at least twice since 2006.  “The figure of $8 billion sounds top heavy,” Timothy Ash,
the head of emerging-market research at the Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London , said by e-mail today. “A gain of
$6 billion is, nevertheless, nothing to be sniffed at.”  The lower amount would still be enough to push Ukraine’s
current account back into surplus, boost industry and ease the
political pressure of liberalizing domestic gas prices, Ash
said.  Russian gas prices will remain lower than in  Europe  even as
the government plans to increase regulated prices for industry
through 2015 to boost domestic margins to the level of sales
abroad, Golubev said.  Gazprom expects Ukraine to reduce transit tariffs, Golubev
said. The cost of the gas bought by Ukraine to power pipeline
pumping stations would drop so the transit rates should fall as
well, he said.  NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy, Ukraine’s state energy company, said
today that it paid Gazprom $1.25 billion for gas imported in
March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net  