-- 
GE May Choose Site for Biggest U.S. Solar Plant in 3 Months

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-07T21:59:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ge-expects-600-million-investment-in-solar-technology.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  plans to select
a location in about three months for a U.S. solar-panel plant
that may be the country’s largest.  With the new facility, the total investment in the solar
business will exceed $600 million, Fairfield, Connecticut-based
GE said today in a statement. The plant will employ about 400
people and make enough panels annually for operators to generate
power for 80,000 U.S. homes, or about 400 megawatts.  The tipping point in GE’s decision to expand manufacturing
of the panels was boosting the efficiency of cadmium telluride-
based thin film panels to a record 12.8 percent, said  Victor Abate , who runs solar, wind and renewable energy units at GE,
the world’s biggest provider of power-generation equipment. The
increase also is a key factor in bringing down costs, he said.  “Before you scale, you have to be a technology leader,”
Abate said in a telephone interview. “By reaching this
milestone with the most efficient technology, we believe we’re
ready to scale.”  The expansion includes buying the rest of Arvada, Colorado-
based PrimeStar Solar Inc., he said. GE agreed to buy a minority
stake in the company in 2007.  GE became the world’s second-biggest maker of  wind turbines 
within a decade of purchasing Enron Corp.’s operations after
that company’s 2002 bankruptcy. Abate said he thinks the company
can build the solar business in a similar way.  Efficiency Savings  In solar, for every percentage point gain in efficiency,
Abate sees a 10 percent reduction in cost.  GE expects to continue increasing the efficiency of the
panels, Abate said.  “We’ve moved the efficiency from where we started
investing with the team at PrimeStar at about four times the
rate of the industry, and we expect to continue to do that,” he
said.  GE has reached new commercial agreements for thin-film
solar products, including panels, inverters and total solar
 power plants  that would generate more than 100 megawatts, the
company said today. The agreements include 60 megawatts of thin-
film panels for  Juno Beach , Florida-based NextEra Energy Inc.,
already a wind-turbine customer.  Photovoltaic system installations will almost double to
32.6 gigawatts by 2013 from 18.6 gigawatts last year, according
to Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates. Manufacturing
capacity worldwide has almost quadrupled since 2008 to 27.5
gigawatts, and 12 gigawatts of production will be added this
year.  Thin-Film Panels  Most solar panels convert sunlight into electricity using
silicon-based photovoltaic cells. Thin-film panels are made by
coating glass or other material with cadmium telluride or with
copper indium gallium selenide alloys, known as CIGS. They
account for about 15 percent of a $28 billion global solar-panel
market and have been gaining as prices rise for crystalline
silicon, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The market leader is  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , based in Tempe,
 Arizona , with $2.6 billion in annual revenue and about a six-
year head start in commercializing cadmium-telluride thin film.
The company plans to have enough capacity online for 2.9
gigawatts of power by the end of next year, according to figures
on its website. Ted Meyer, a First Solar spokesman, declined to
comment on GE’s announcement.  GE also faces start-up competitors such as Abound Solar
Inc.  Converteam Acquisition  GE’s decision on where to locate the new plant will be
based on criteria including proximity to the company’s research
centers, available factory space, and incentives from state and
local governments. GE expects to make a decision before the end
of the year, at the latest, Abate said.  The new plant will be complemented by Converteam, the
French power conversion company that GE agreed to purchase in
late March, GE said. With Converteam, GE can offer packages that
include power conversion and whole-plant systems rather than the
panel modules alone, Abate said.  GE fell 20 cents to $20.35 at 4:15 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, while First Solar declined $1.80 to
$148.80 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rachel Layne  in  Boston  at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  