-- 
GE's Investment Arm Shedding Bond Risk in Face of Market's ‘Lofty’ Outlook

-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-04-07T18:03:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ge-investment-arm-shedding-bond-risk-on-lofty-expectations.html
General Electric Co. (GE) ’s investment
arm is shedding commercial-mortgage securities, high-yield
corporate bonds and emerging-market debt, anticipating that
investor expectations for the U.S. economy will deteriorate.  GE Asset Management has been reducing holdings of riskier
securities since late February, after favoring them as they
rallied over the previous 14 months, said Paul Colonna, 42, who
oversees about $53 billion as the  Stamford , Connecticut-based
unit’s chief investment officer for fixed income.  The threat of a federal-government shutdown as lawmakers
wrangle over budget cuts underscores the end of the fiscal
stimulus that helped the U.S. escape an 18-month recession,
Colonna said. The economy faces a renewed housing slump that may
extend for years as policy makers reduce government support amid
a lack of “bread-winner job” creation and tepid wage growth
even as unemployment falls, he said.  “There’s not enough to drag us down into a double-dip
recession, but there’s enough to take down the lofty
expectations that are out there and impact asset prices,”
Colonna said in a telephone interview. There have been “some
very, very aggressive run-ups” in credit markets, he said.  U.S. commercial-mortgage bonds have returned 20.5 percent
since the end of 2009, while speculative-grade company bonds
have gained 20.3 percent, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch index data, reflecting growing confidence in the economy
and the  Federal Reserve ’s stimulus for markets that’s pushed
investors to seek high-yielding debt.  Emerging-market debentures returned 18.6 percent, while
Treasuries have offered 5.3 percent, the data show.  Shifting Money  GE’s asset management arm has been shifting more money into
the longest-term Treasuries, Colonna said.  Economists have scaled back expectations for U.S. growth
since early February, reducing estimates for both third and
fourth quarters by 0.2 percentage point to 3.3 percent,
according to the median forecasts of 70 contributors surveyed by
Bloomberg. Gross domestic product advanced 2.9 percent last
year.  U.S. incomes rose 0.3 percent in February, down from 1.2
percent in January and less than a forecasted gain of 0.4
percent, the Commerce Department said March 28. Wages and
salaries increased 0.3 percent in February for a third month.  Investors should be as concerned about weakness in the U.S.
housing market as political turmoil in the Middle East and
rising  oil prices , Colonna said. Every $10 per barrel increase
in crude cuts U.S. growth as much as 0.3 percentage point, UBS
AG estimates. Oil prices rose today to more than $110 a barrel
from $93.41 at the end of 2010.  Home Prices   Home prices around 20 U.S. cities fell 5.3 percent from
July through January, after rebounding 6.9 percent from an April
2009 low, according to S&P/Case-Shiller index data. Prices are
down almost 32 percent from a July 2006 peak. Values may fall as
much as 10 percent to 15 percent further in a worst-case
scenario, Colonna said.  Policy makers appear ready to add to pressures on the
market by eventually taking steps that will boost the cost of
mortgages, reduce availability and potentially target tax
incentives, he said.  “Our country’s support for the industry of housing is
probably more on the table now than at any point at least in my
lifetime, if not in a generation or two,” he said.  Concern that Treasury yields will soar is overblown because
the  U.S. economy  is weak and the debt will gain when investors
seek safety, Colonna said. The Fed probably won’t end its
Treasury purchases in June, when the central bank is scheduled
to complete $600 billion of buying, he said.  “We’ll probably see more out of the Fed, call it QE2.5,”
such as a small-balance “mini” buying program that lasts for
an additional month or two, Colonna said. “I don’t think they
want to just cut this thing off at a moment’s notice.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  