-- 
German Stocks Retreat After Japan’s Quake; Commerzbank Drops

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h   a n d   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-07T15:52:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/german-stocks-fluctuate-before-ecb-rate-decision-bmw-hochtief-decline.html
German stocks retreated after a
magnitude 7.1 earthquake hit 215 miles northeast of  Tokyo  and
the  European Central Bank  lifted  interest rates  for the first
time in almost three years.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  declined 2.8 percent as Morgan
Stanley recommended selling the carmaker’s shares.  Commerzbank
AG (CBK)  sank 4.9 percent as Nomura Holdings Inc. and WestLB AG cut
their ratings on the stock.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  followed European
financial shares higher after Portugal became the third nation
to ask for a bailout from the European Union.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.5 percent to 7,178.78 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt. The gauge has still climbed 10
percent from this year’s low on March 16 amid speculation that
the global economic recovery will withstand Japan’s worst
earthquake on record and popular revolts in the Middle East and
north Africa. The broader HDAX Index lost 0.6 percent today.  Stocks retreated as  Japan  suffered a new earthquake. The
tremor was measured at a depth of about 25 miles and struck at
about 11:32 p.m. local time, the U.S. Geological Survey reported
on its website. Japan issued a tsunami alert for a possible two-
meter wave. A tsunami is not expected to reach Hawaii, according
to a report from the Pacific Tsunami Warning Center.  “You really have to be on alert these days,” said
Matthias Jasper, head of equities at WGZ Bank AG in Dusseldorf.
“We might see a setback in the next few days. There is no
reason to be out of the market at the moment, though.”  ECB Rates  The ECB raised the benchmark interest rate to 1.25 percent
from a record low of 1 percent to quell inflation, as predicted
by all 57 economists in a Bloomberg survey. Monetary policy
remains “accommodative,” President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said at
a press conference in  Frankfurt .  “It is essential that recent price developments do not
give rise to broad-based inflationary pressures over the medium
term,” he said.  BMW dropped 2.8 percent to 59.13 euros, the largest retreat
in a month. Morgan Stanley lowered its recommendation on the
shares to “underweight” from “overweight,” citing a slowdown
in earnings growth.   Commerzbank,  Germany ’s second-biggest bank, lost 4.9
percent to 5.42 euros, the biggest decline since November.
Nomura cut the shares to “reduce” from “neutral” and WestLB
lowered its recommendation to “sell” from “reduce.” The
downgrades came a day after the bank said it plans to repay
about 14.3 billion euros in state aid by June by selling new
shares and using excess capital.  Deutsche Bank Gains  Deutsche Bank, Germany’s biggest lender, climbed 1.3
percent to 42.49 euros. Banking shares posted the best
performance among 19 industry groups in the benchmark Stoxx
Europe 600 Index today, rising 1.2 percent.  Portugal sought a bailout after the nation’s borrowing
costs surged to record levels. The rescue package may be worth
as much as 75 billion euros ($107 billion), two European
officials with knowledge of the situation said.  Hochtief AG (HOT)  tumbled 7.9 percent to 69.99 euros, the largest
drop since October 2009. Germany’s biggest listed builder said
Australian unit Leighton Holdings Ltd.’s earnings review will
likely have “significant adverse effects” on its 2011
forecast.  MTU Aero Engines Holding AG (MTX)  jumped 1.9 percent to 49.41
euros as UniCredit SpA raised its recommendation on the stock to
“buy” from “hold.”  German Industrial Output  A report today showed German industrial production rose
three times as much as economists forecast in February, adding
to signs that economic growth accelerated in the first quarter.
Output increased 1.6 percent from January, when it gained 2
percent, the Economy Ministry in Berlin said today. Economists
had forecast a 0.5 percent gain for February, according to the
median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  In the U.S., fewer Americans filed first-time claims for
 unemployment insurance  last week, indicating that the labor
market is recovering. Applications for jobless benefits fell
10,000 in the week ended April 2 to 382,000, the fewest since
Feb. 26, Labor Department figures showed. Economists had
projected claims would be little changed at 385,000, according
to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  