-- 
German Industrial Production Rose More Than Forecast in February

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-04-07T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/german-industrial-production-rose-more-than-forecast-in-february.html
German industrial production rose
three times as much as economists forecast in February, adding
to signs economic growth accelerated in the first quarter.  Output increased 1.6 percent from January, when it gained 2
percent, the  Economy Ministry  in Berlin said today. Economists
had forecast a 0.5 percent gain for February, according to the
median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. In the year,
production rose 14.8 percent when adjusted for working days.  Germany ’s recovery is broadening as companies step up
investment and hiring to meet export demand, encouraging
consumers to spend more. The country’s leading economic
institutes today predicted the economy, Europe’s largest, will
grow 2.8 percent this year after expanding a record 3.6 percent
last year, even as the  European Central Bank  raises  interest
rates  and peripheral euro-area countries such as Greece, Ireland
and  Portugal  remain mired in a debt crisis.  “The German industrial sector is moving at full speed and
first-quarter growth should be incredibly strong,” said  Aline Schuiling , senior economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“Activity will slow down later in the year, partly due to
fiscal consolidation and somewhat weaker world trade on the back
of monetary tightening in emerging economies.”  January industrial output was revised up from an initially
reported 1.8 percent gain. February’s increase was driven by a
3.4 percent jump in construction activity and a 1.6 percent gain
in investment goods production, today’s report showed.  ‘Economic Pillar’  “In light of full order books, industrial production is
likely to remain a significant economic pillar in coming
months,” the Economy Ministry said in a statement.  Factory orders increased 2.4 percent in February, almost
five times as much as economists forecast, with demand for big-
ticket items “strongly above average,” the ministry said
yesterday.  Sales at Siemens AG,  Europe ’s largest engineering company,
were “significantly” higher in the first three months of the
year than in the previous quarter as orders increased by more
than 10 percent, Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said on
April 5.  Business confidence remained close to a record high in
March while unemployment fell for the 21st straight month,
pushing the jobless rate to 7.1 percent, the lowest since June
1992.  Still, German manufacturers are facing rising prices for
energy, steel and aluminum as well as potential supply
bottlenecks as a result of stoppages in Japanese plants after
the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Commodity Prices  Schaeffler Group , the world’s second-biggest maker of
roller bearings, said on March 29 that its profit margin may
shrink this year due to commodity cost increases. BASF SE
announced on March 22 it is increasing worldwide prices for all
coolants, brake fluids and specialty fluids as raw materials are
becoming “significantly” more expensive.  The cost of oil has surged almost 30 percent in the past
seven weeks to $109 a barrel, helping to drive euro-area
inflation to 2.6 percent last month. The ECB, which aims to keep
inflation just below 2 percent, may raise its benchmark interest
rate from a record low of 1 percent later today.  “There is still a big cushion of orders in the books, so
production in the coming months should keep increasing,” said
 Joerg Lueschow , an economist at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “At
the moment, there’s no evidence of any weakening in the German
economy, but the oil-price development is a big risk factor. If
it stays at this level it’ll surely cost us some growth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  