-- 
Gold May Gain Next Week on Inflation, European Debt Concerns, Survey Shows

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 
2011-04-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/gold-may-gain-on-inflation-european-debt-concerns-survey-shows.html
Gold may extend gains from a record
as concern about inflation and European debt spur demand for an
alternative investment, a survey found.  Fifteen of 18 traders, investors and analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, or 83 percent, said bullion will rise next week. Two
predicted lower prices and one was neutral. Gold for June
delivery was up 2 percent for this week at $1,457.40 an ounce by
11:53 a.m. yesterday on the Comex in  New York , after reaching a
record $1,466.50 earlier in the day.  “The threat of sovereign debt contagion in the euro zone
should keep investors sufficiently interested in the safe-haven
aspect of precious metals,” said Marc Ground, an analyst at
Standard Bank Plc in Johannesburg. “This should provide the
potential for further upside.”  The European Central Bank yesterday lifted  interest rates 
for the first time in almost three years to quell inflation even
as Portugal seeks a bailout, becoming the third euro-region
country to need a rescue.  China  this week increased rates to
combat rising consumer prices. Fighting in Libya and the
aftermath of Japan’s earthquake last month helped push gold to a
record. An earthquake registered northeast of  Tokyo  yesterday.  “As far as gold is concerned, inflation fears are
dominating the daily agenda,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an
analyst at VTB Capital in London.  The attached chart tracks the results of the Bloomberg
survey, with the red bars derived by subtracting bearish
forecasts from bullish estimates. Readings below zero signal
that most respondents expect a decline. The green line shows the
gold price. The data are as of April 1.  The weekly gold survey that started almost seven years ago
has forecast prices accurately in 204 of 357 weeks, or 57
percent of the time.  This week’s survey results: Bullish: 15 Bearish: 2 Neutral: 1  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 