-- 
Goldman Rides ‘Big Short,’ Squeezes Rivals in Cohan’s History

-- B y   J a m e s   P r e s s l e y
-- 
2011-04-09T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/goldman-rides-big-short-squeezes-rivals-in-cohan-s-rich-history-books.html
For  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the
moment of truth came as December 2006 bled into 2007. That’s
when the investment bank got a chance “to flip the switch and
get short,” recalls trader Joshua Birnbaum in William D. Cohan’s imposing history of the firm, “Money and Power.”  Goldman, as we now know, seized the day with what Chief
Financial Officer David A. Viniar later called “the big
short,” a bet that the housing bubble would burst. What’s less
understood is how fateful that decision proved, for both Wall
Street and Goldman itself, which has survived more scrapes and
scandals since its founding in 1869 than its reputation
suggests.  Readers hoping for dishy new revelations about publicity-
shy Goldman may be disappointed by this 658-page book. What we
get here, mostly, is a balanced if somewhat ponderous account
that fleshes out familiar events -- from the firm’s reckless
brush with death in 1929 to its demonization as “a great
vampire squid” after the mortgage debacle.  A former Lazard Freres & Co. banker and newspaper reporter,
Cohan brings the bank’s sometimes “schizophrenic” behavior to
vivid life. He builds a more nuanced and better-timed portrait
than Charles D. Ellis’s laudatory “The Partnership,” which
reached bookstores as markets plummeted in October 2008.  Drawing on more than 100 interviews with clients,
competitors and Goldman leaders including Chief Executive
Officer Lloyd C. Blankfein, Cohan evinces an eye for telling
images and an ear for deadpan quotations. Blankfein is described
as having a “penchant for squinting and raising his eyebrows at
odd moments.” Precisely. And how’s this for praise from his
former rabbi? “He was brilliant as a 12-year-old boy.”  Bayou Drawl  The son of a post-office mail sorter, Blankfein fits the
asymmetrical mold at Goldman, a gilt-edged outfit with a habit
of promoting characters straight out of  Mark Twain . Cohan ticks
through the firm’s legendary leaders, including Sidney Weinberg,
the slum kid who became Mr.  Wall Street ; Gustave Levy, the big
block trader with the bayou drawl; and  Henry Paulson , the hard-
headed Christian Scientist who ejected his rival,  Jon Corzine .  Blankfein grew up in a Brooklyn housing project, rose
through  Harvard Law School  and worked at a law firm before
having what he called a “prelife crisis,” Cohan writes.
Abandoning the legal profession, he made his fortune on Wall
Street. For 2010, he received $19 million in compensation.  ‘Fabulous Fab’  Cohan, a contributing editor for Bloomberg Television, puts
his skepticism to good use in the last stretch of the book,
where he dissects Goldman’s decision to bet against the mortgage
market even as it kept selling collateralized debt obligations
such as the infamous Abacus 2007-AC1 promoted by  Fabrice Tourre ,
a.k.a. “the fabulous Fab.”  The wager enabled Goldman to sidestep the worst of the
mortgage meltdown, Cohan says. It also allowed the bank to
squeeze its rivals and exacerbated the crisis, as Cohan argues
in page after page of convincing detail.  Profits from Birnbaum’s trades against the market offset
losses on Goldman’s own mortgage-related holdings, including
bits of Abacus it never managed to sell, Cohan says. Its rivals,
by contrast, couldn’t afford similar writedowns. Once Goldman
started marking down the value of its own mortgage portfolio,
others -- beginning with two Bear Stearns Cos.  hedge funds  --
were forced to follow.  Conflagration  “They were the marks heard ‘round the world,” writes
Cohan, who says the decision touched off “one conflagration
after another for the next 18 months until Wall Street itself
nearly collapsed in September and October 2008.”  In a Senate hearing in 2010 and a subsequent interview with
Cohan, Blankfein denied that Goldman made a massive bet against
the housing market. The decision -- notwithstanding Viniar’s
reference to “the big short” -- was just a routine move to
reduce the bank’s risk.  In fairness, Cohan does offer evidence that Goldman was
less gung-ho about shorting the market than was, say, hedge-fund
manager  John Paulson . In February 2007, for example, CFO Viniar
issued orders to close out some shorts. Birnbaum also battled
what he called the “VAR police,” company accountants who kept
reminding him of the value he was putting at risk.  Yet the tide definitely turned that quarter, when Goldman
sought to mitigate its losses and protect itself, as Viniar told
investors in March 2007.  ‘Government Sachs’  There’s a time for boasting and a time for lying low. This
may be the latter for Goldman. For decades, the firm thrived on
a nexus between Washington and Wall Street known as “Government
Sachs,” Cohan says, alluding to Goldmanites from Weinberg to
Paulson who have served the White House in some fashion.  That nexus came unstuck during Goldman’s triumph amid the
mortgage meltdown, Cohan says. For the first time since 1932,
when Weinberg was a friend to President-elect  Franklin Delano Roosevelt , “the firm no longer appears to have sympathetic
high-level relationships in  Washington ,” says Cohan.  The big short, judging from this book, has given way to the
big power vacuum. Do you buy that?  “Money and Power: How Goldman Sachs Came to Rule the
World” is from  Doubleday  (658 pages, $30.50). To buy this book
in  North America , click  here .  (James Pressley is a book critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Pressley in Brussels at 
 jpressley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 