-- 
Golfers Won’t Be Disqualified for Violations Caught by Television Viewers

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-04-08T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/golfers-won-t-always-be-disqualified-for-violations-caught-by-tv-viewers.html
Padraig Harrington , a three-time
major tournament winner who was booted from an event in
January, said golf’s ruling bodies acted quickly and prudently
by changing a rule to prevent professionals from being
automatically disqualified if a television viewer alerts an
official to an infraction.  The U.S. Golf Association and the Royal & Ancient Golf Club
of  Scotland  changed an interpretation of the rules because of
disqualifications in situations “caused by scorecard errors
identified as the result of recent advances in video
technologies,” the governing organizations said yesterday
before the start of the Masters Tournament.  Three months ago, Harrington was disqualified from the
 European Tour’s  Abu Dhabi HSBC Championship because of an
incident in the opening round brought to light by a TV viewer.  “It seems like a pretty sensible thing,” Harrington said
following yesterday’s opening round of the Masters in Augusta,
 Georgia . “It’s a small change, but a good change. It’s great to
see that they have got together and acted so quickly.”  The decision means players who aren’t aware of a rule
breach before signing their scorecard won’t automatically be
removed from the competition, the groups said. Tournament
officials now have the option to give the player a penalty for
breaking the rule, but not disqualify them.  Harrington was trailing the leader by a shot when he
brushed his ball while placing it in front of his marker on the
seventh green, moving it a fraction. The Irishman didn’t replace
the ball at that point and should have given himself a two-
stroke penalty. Because he signed his scorecard without the
penalty, he was disqualified.  Video Evidence  Harrington said he didn’t call a referee over because he
didn’t feel the ball had moved. He then realized it did after
seeing video. A viewer had notified officials overnight about
the violation.  “I would say we could wait a lifetime before we see
another instance exactly like that one,” Harrington said.  Mike Davis, executive director of the USGA, said
disqualification under the old standard rule “is not what the
rules of golf contemplated.”  “This would not happen on a day-to-day basis with golf,”
Davis said at a press conference at the Masters. “Why should we
essentially be throwing somebody out of a competition with a
disqualification penalty for that?”  Several players have been found to have broken rules by
viewers and disqualified in the last 12 months. Professionals
complained about the actions, but the ruling bodies had replied
that golfers have the responsibility to know and follow the
rules.  Inkster Disqualified  In August, Juli Inkster was disqualified from the LPGA
Safeway Classic after a viewer saw her use a weight on her club
as she warmed up after a long delay on the 10th hole. It’s
illegal to use a training aid during a tournament round.  The same month that Harrington was disqualified, Camilo
Villegas of  Colombia  was ousted from the Tournament of Champions
when a viewer saw him remove some pieces of loose grass in front
of his ball as it rolled down a hill. Players can’t remove
impediments that may influence the ball’s movement.  Under the rule change, Villegas still would have been
disqualified, Davis said.  “Ignorance of the rules will not in this particular case
get a player off disqualification,” Davis said.  After finishing his opening round of the Masters with a 2-
under-par 70, Villegas said he agreed with the change while
joking that the sport’s rules book is too thick.  “Who knows all the rules of golf?” Villegas asked
reporters after yesterday’s round. “There’s too many rules in
this game, but I guess the change is good. I’m looking forward
to not breaking more rules without knowing that I’m doing it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net  