-- 
Google’s YouTube Said to Seek Hollywood Deals in Channel Revamp

-- B y   R o n a l d   G r o v e r ,   B r i a n   W o m a c k   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-07T00:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/google-s-youtube-said-to-seek-hollywood-deals-in-latest-channel-revamp.html
YouTube,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s online video
website, is negotiating with Hollywood and music producers for
material to offer on a lineup of new channels, according to
three people involved in the talks.  The channels, part of a  YouTube.com  overhaul, would let
Google offer ad-supported videos to viewers who increasingly use
the Web to watch films and TV shows, said one of the people, who
wasn’t authorized to speak publicly. The discussions are
preliminary and no plans have been solidified, one person said.  YouTube intends to offer channels tailored to music, TV,
and sports, along with a celebrity site, each with more than 10
hours of professionally programmed original material a week, one
of the people said. Plans call for 20 channels funded with $5
million each for programming, a separate person said.  The service wouldn’t be available until later this year or
early in 2012, the person added.  Chris Dale, a spokesman for YouTube, had no immediate
comment. The Wall Street Journal reported on the plans earlier
today.  YouTube will initially focus on short programs and music
videos, the people also said.  Leading the talks is Alex Carloss, who joined YouTube in
March from  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s  Paramount Pictures , where he led
digital distribution, said one of the people.  Google, owner of the most-used search engine, rose $5.09 to
$574.18 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. The company, based in
 Mountain View ,  California , has dropped 3.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ronald Grover in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgrover5@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 Bwomack1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  