-- 
U.S. Government Shutdown Threatens 800,000 People As Obama Seeks Solution

-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/government-shutdown-threatens-800-000-as-obama-seeks-solution.html
In the event of a government
shutdown, the National Institutes of Health won’t admit new
patients, some taxpayers will wait longer for refunds and any
furloughed civil servants with federally issued BlackBerrys must
turn them off.  A failure by Congress to extend the government’s spending
authority, which expires tomorrow, would force the closure of
national parks, monuments and museums. Federal agencies -- such
as the  National Labor Relations Board  -- that don’t protect
lives, property or national security also would be shuttered.  As Democratic and Republican leaders in Congress seek
agreement on a spending measure for the rest of the 2011 fiscal
year, the Obama administration has warned of economic disruption
from even a short shutdown. More than 800,000 “non-essential”
federal workers -- out of a civilian workforce of 2.1 million --
would be furloughed until new spending legislation was passed.
Agencies have drafted contingency plans for who would work and
who wouldn’t.  The prospect of a government shutdown, however limited it
may be, has placed pressure on the Obama administration and
congressional leaders to settle their dispute over $30 billion
or more in cuts from the federal budget through September before
a suspension -- as of midnight tomorrow -- of all but essential
federal services. Leaders of both parties are bracing for the
blame that will be attached to their failure to resolve what the
White House has described as minimal differences.  “People are going to have to understand that a shutdown
would have real effects on everyday Americans,” President
 Barack Obama  said last night after a meeting with congressional
leaders at the White House, where he expressed confidence that a
shutdown can be averted.  Elected Officials  Elected officials, including members of Congress and the
president, would get paid during a shutdown unless Congress
changes the law. Unlike the president and legislators, though,
military personnel and federal employees who are deemed
“essential” would receive no paychecks.  Although troops and the civilian employees who continue to
work would get paid for their service after government financing
is restored, there is no guarantee that Congress would make
furloughed workers whole.  “You should plan accordingly,” says a sample  letter  to
non-essential employees prepared by the House Administration
Committee that also advises furloughed workers not to log on to
government e-mail and to turn off their government-issued
BlackBerrys.  $174 Million Per Day  The cost of back pay for furloughed government workers
would be $174 million for each day the government is closed,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government analyst Scott Anchin.  The U.S. military’s operations in  Afghanistan ,  Iraq  and
 Libya  would continue under the  Feed and Forage Act , which
guarantees payment of its expenses. The 1861 law “was designed
for the cavalry troop that was going through Dodge City and
needed to get ammunition for its rifles and food for men and
horses,” said John F. Cooney, a former government budget
official. It’s “a standing promise” by Congress to “fund any
bill troops run up” to defend themselves, he said.  Medicare, Social Security  Medicare and Social Security would continue to pay benefits
to elderly Americans because they don’t depend on year-to-year
spending measures from Congress, said Cooney, who was deputy
general counsel of the Office of Management and Budget under
President  Ronald Reagan .  The Social Security Administration plans to continue
sending checks during a shutdown and accept new applications for
benefits, said spokesman Mark Hinkle.  As long as there is money in the Medicare trust fund,
Medicare beneficiaries would continue to receive checks, said an
administration official who briefed reporters yesterday. The
trust fund would only be depleted if there is a lengthy
government shutdown, said the official, who spoke on condition
of anonymity.  The  Internal Revenue Service  will continue sending refunds
to taxpayers who file their returns electronically, Commissioner
Douglas Shulman said yesterday. Online filings accounted for 70
percent of all tax returns last year, he said.  Taxpayers who filed by mail may have to wait longer to get
their money because Shulman says the IRS won’t process their
refunds during a shutdown.  The IRS would also suspend tax audits, said the
administration official.  Financial Markets  The political drama in  Washington  has not disrupted the
prevailing calm in financial markets. Yields on two-year
 Treasury securities  rose 2 basis points yesterday to 0.83
percent. That is still below the average yield of 2.59 percent
in the last decade, according to Bloomberg Bond Trade prices.  Those prices reflect expectations by investors that when
political leaders “come to the edge of the precipice, a more
rational approach should prevail,” said  John Lonski , chief
economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group.  As White House officials warned of devastating economic
consequences, some Republicans attempted to downplay the impact
of a shutdown.  “There is no such thing as an actual government
shutdown,” Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota  told a
crowd of Tea Party protesters outside the Capitol yesterday.
“It is a government slowdown.”  Economic Impact  The economic impact would depend on its duration and
whether government workers are repaid.  “If they’re not losing their income or some of it is made
up, then you have a situation where impacts are minor,
relatively,” said  Joel Naroff , president of Naroff Economic
Advisors in Holland,  Pennsylvania .  There is no precedent for Congress reimbursing the hundreds
of thousands of federal contractors or their employees who may
be laid off during a shutdown.  “A government shutdown would be devastating to small
businesses, their employees and their communities,” said Terry
Williams, a spokesman for the National Association of Small
Business Contractors in Washington.  Contractors such as  SAIC Inc. (SAI) ,  AeroVironment Inc. (AVAV)  and
 Comtech Telecommunications Corp. (CMTL)  face greater financial risk
than rivals because they must report earnings after April 30,
according to a Lazard Capital Markets LLC report.  It will be difficult for such companies to “pick up all
that lost revenue” by April 30,  Michael Lewis , the report’s
author, said in a telephone interview.  Economic Data Delay  A shutdown would delay release of U.S. economic data, such
as the scheduled April 12 release of Labor Department figures on
March import prices, Commerce Department numbers on the February
trade balance and the Treasury’s budget for last month.  Closures of the Small Business Administration and the
Federal Housing Administration would suspend processing of
business loans and government-insured home mortgages, the
administration official said. FHA-insured mortgages account for
about 30 percent of the home-loan market, compared with 12
percent during the last two shutdowns in late 1995 and early
1996.  And researchers at the  National Institutes of Health  would
not be allowed to start new clinical trials of experimental
treatments or admit new patients, said the administration
official.  Open for Business  The Treasury Department will conduct its regular schedule
of securities auctions, a government official said yesterday on
condition of anonymity. The Federal Reserve Board and its 12
regional banks will continue to operate because the Fed finances
its operations from its bond portfolio.  Also unaffected would be air-traffic control operations,
airplane safety inspections and maintenance of airport
communications, Randy Babbitt, head of the  Federal Aviation
Administration , told a congressional subcommittee.  The FBI’s criminal investigations will likely be
“unhindered,” though a shutdown would force the bureau to
postpone training and new initiatives, director Robert Mueller
told a House subcommittee yesterday.  All 116 federal prisons would remain open and criminal
investigations and prosecutions would continue, said Justice
Department spokeswoman Jessica Smith in an e-mail. The agency
would be forced to “stop or significantly curtail” civil
litigation, outreach to crime victims and managing grants.  The federal court system will use fees paid by litigants
and criminal defendants to remain open for about two weeks, said
spokesman Dick Carelli.  The State Department’s passport and visa services will
likely be curtailed, said spokesman Mark Toner. U.S. embassies
“will continue to provide services” of an emergency nature to
Americans abroad, he said.  National parks, monuments and Smithsonian Institution
museums would close to visitors. The National Zoo in Washington
would continue to employ keepers and veterinarians to care for
the animals.  The animals “need to have their keepers” for food and
“vets on duty” in case they get sick, said spokeswoman Linda
St. Thomas. “What they won’t have is visitors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  