-- 
LGT Accused in Lawsuit of Making Unauthorized Trades in Singapore Account

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-04-07T00:48:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/lgt-accused-in-lawsuit-of-making-unauthorized-trades-in-singapore-account.html
LGT Group, owned by Liechtenstein’s
princely family, was sued in  Singapore  by a former private
banking client accusing the bank of making unauthorized trades
in his account.  Najafi Abdul Latif, a retired British citizen, incurred
unspecified losses after the bank’s Singapore unit made the
trades, that included bets on foreign currencies, in 2008 and
failed to carry out two orders, according to a lawsuit filed
with the Singapore High Court. The first closed hearing is
scheduled for today.  Marcel Furrer, who was Latif’s banker and has since quit
 LGT,  “admitted he had made mistakes both in the plaintiff’s
accounts as well as in other clients’ accounts,” according to
the lawsuit.  Christof Buri, an LGT spokesman, said the bank would
contest the claims and declined to comment further. Furrer
didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.  LGT is seeking to add Furrer as a defendant to the lawsuit
and may claim damages or seek indemnity from Latif’s claims, the
bank, which had  assets under management  of 86 billion swiss
francs ($94 billion) in 2010, said in its court filing.  Furrer had begged Latif, an LGT client since 2005, not to
file a complaint with the bank until he was paid his bonus and
got another job, according to court papers. The banker claimed
he was depressed after learning he had cancer and couldn’t focus
at work, Latif said.  Sought ‘Understanding’  “I do not expect compassion but an understanding why I was
not able to perform as expected or as successfully for you,”
Furrer said to Latif in an October 2008 e-mail, cited in court
papers.  LGT isn’t aware of the private arrangement which included
sending trade confirmations through phone messages that Latif
and Furrer had and can’t be bound by it, the bank said. The
bank’s relationship and interactions with Latif were done
according to LGT’s processes, LGT said in its filing.  LGT failed to ensure there were enough safeguards and
supervision of its officers, Latif said in his court filing. The
client had told Furrer that his funds should be protected as
they were his life-savings and that he was a conservative
investor, according to the lawsuit.  The case is Najafi Abdul Latif v. LGT Bank (Singapore) Ltd.
S125/2011, Singapore High Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  