-- 
Gulf States Seek Saleh’s Departure as Part of Yemen Accord

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-04-07T09:49:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/gulf-states-seek-saleh-s-departure-as-part-of-yemen-accord.html
Gulf Arab nations are seeking to
broker an accord between  Yemen ’s government and opposition
movements that would involve President Ali Abdullah Saleh
stepping down, the prime minister of Qatar said.  Countries in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council “hope
to reach a deal with the Yemeni president to step down,” Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber Al Thani said in  New York , according to the
official Qatar News Agency. His comments follow a meeting this
week in Saudi Arabia where Gulf foreign ministers pledged to
hold talks with Yemen’s government and the opposition, saying
the GCC respects the “will and choices of the Yemeni people.”  Protests against Saleh, which have taken place daily
across the country for more than two months, continued today
with clashes in the southern governorate of Taiz killing at
least one person. The demonstrations have gained momentum since
March 18, when police and snipers killed 46 protesters in the
capital, Sana’a, prompting several military and government
officials to abandon Saleh’s regime.  Yemen’s main opposition coalition said it welcomed the GCC
initiative and will attend talks in  Riyadh  next week. The Joint
Meetings Party sees Saleh’s departure as “the key solution to
the current crisis, and this is there in the GCC initiative,”
spokesman Mohammed Kahtan said in a telephone interview.  Separatist Uprisings  The Yemeni government is battling a secessionist movement
in the south and a Shiite uprising in the north. The Shiite
Houthi rebels and the southern separatists will also have a
presence at the Saudi meeting, Kahtan said.  The Houthis welcomed the initiative and has no objection to
attending the Riyadh meeting, spokesman Mohammed Abdulsalam
said, adding that the group is still studying the GCC’s
proposals. Representatives of the southern separatists couldn’t
immediately be reached for comment.  Saleh is also fighting al-Qaeda with support from the U.S.
and  Saudi Arabia , which have both been targeted by the group’s
Yemen-based wing. In August 2009, it attempted to assassinate
the top Saudi anti-terrorism official, Prince Muhammad bin Nayef
bin Abdulaziz. In October last year, Dubai police said they
intercepted two parcel bombs en route to U.S. synagogues.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 