-- 
Gulfstream Jet Crash Came as Pilots Simulated Engine Failure, Board Says

-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 
2011-04-07T21:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/gulfstream-jet-crashed-when-testing-engine-failure-agency-says.html
The  Gulfstream G650  jet that crashed
April 2, killing all four crew members, was simulating an engine
failure during takeoff when the accident occurred, the  National
Transportation Safety Board  said.  In a  preliminary report  issued today and posted on its
website, the safety agency said the jet was “performing a
takeoff with a simulated engine failure to determine takeoff
distance requirements at minimum flap setting.” The crash
occurred in Roswell,  New Mexico .  Witnesses saw the jet “sliding on the ground with sparks
and smoke coming from the bottom of the wing, and described the
airplane being fully involved in fire while still moving across
the ground,” the agency report said. The runway showed wingtip
scrape marks for about 3,800 feet before the jet came to a halt,
the report said.  Determining the cause of the accident may take 12 months to
18 months, the safety agency said.  The U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration , which is
responsible for certifying the airplane for commercial use, is
in talks with Gulfstream about resuming test flights, Alison Duquette, a spokeswoman for the agency, said in a phone
interview. No decisions have been reached about continuing
flights, she said.  NTSB Probe  Gulfstream, a unit of  Falls Church , Virginia-based  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD) , is cooperating in the NTSB investigation and
will resume flying only when “we and the Federal Aviation
Administration” are satisfied it is safe, Pres Henne, senior
vice president for programs, engineering and test, said in a
statement.  The $64 million G650, equipped with two Rolls Royce Plc-
made engines, is a large-cabin, long-range business jet that can
fly at nearly the speed of sound, according to Gulfstream, which
is based in Savannah,  Georgia .  The plane has about 200 orders from customers, General
Dynamics has said.  General Dynamics rose 21 cents to $74.95 at 4:15 p.m. in
New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Shares fell 5.2
percent, the most in more than two years, on April 4, the first
trading day after the crash.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in  Washington  at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net  