-- 
IBM Aims to Make Cloud Computing More Palatable to Companies

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   K a t i e   H o f f m a n n
-- 
2011-04-07T20:06:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ibm-seeks-to-make-cloud-computing-more-palatable-to-businesses.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , angling to reap more than 5 percent of its revenue from
cloud computing by 2015, is introducing new ways for customers
to run  business software  inside its data centers.  IBM will begin selling the computing service, called
“SmartCloud,” today to help large companies save money on
equipment and software by letting them store data on IBM’s
servers and access it over the Internet. Lockheed Martin Corp.,
Macy’s Inc., ING Groep N.V. and  Kaiser Permanente  are among
companies that use IBM’s cloud-computing technology and may be
target customers for SmartCloud, the company said.  SmartCloud software offers companies ways to analyze data,
plan orders and deliveries and manage sales. The initiative is
part of a push by IBM, the world’s largest computer-services
company, to post $7 billion in cloud-related sales in 2015, a
goal laid out by Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge on
 March 8 . Total revenue may reach $123 billion that year, the
average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s a gargantuan number,”  Brian Marshall , an analyst at
Gleacher & Co. in San Francisco, said of the $7 billion goal.
While IBM hasn’t laid out its cloud plans as comprehensively as
 Wall Street  would like, this push will help it sell hardware and
software, he said. “It will give them a double dip.”  Marshall rates the shares “neutral” and doesn’t own any.  IBM rose 34 cents to $164.38 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading, and has gained 12 percent this year.  Security ‘Anxieties’  IBM is distinguishing its approach from rivals including
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and Google Inc., which sell
cloud services to independent software developers and larger
companies based on the amount of time they use the services and
how much data they consume.  By contrast, SmartCloud is designed to run parts of very
large companies’ key business applications, emphasizing security
and reliability, Senior Vice President  Steve Mills  said in an
interview. IBM’s cloud will let customers tailor data security,
regulatory compliance and backup features based on their needs.  “There are a lot of concerns and anxieties that larger
businesses have that startups and three-man companies aren’t
concerned about,” said Mills, who manages systems and software
at IBM. “It’s not a one-size-fits-all world.”  Growth Driver  IBM has a history of making emerging technologies safe for
skeptical chief information officers. It made personal computers
acceptable for companies in the early 1980s, then ratified
parallel processing -- which breaks down calculations into small
chunks handled by hundreds of chips -- with its chess-playing
Deep Blue supercomputer in the 1990s. In 2000, IBM said it would
invest $1 billion in the open-source Linux operating system to
improve its capabilities and expand its use.  Chief Executive Officer  Sam Palmisano  has identified cloud
computing as a key growth area, along with data analysis, sales
in emerging markets, and IBM’s Smarter Planet initiative to make
buildings, hospitals, and highways more efficient. Together,
they can contribute about $20 billion in revenue growth by 2015
Loughridge said.  At an IBM event in  San Francisco  today, Mills said the
SmartCloud services could be as profitable as hardware and
software IBM would have otherwise sold customers to perform
similar tasks.  “We don’t see this as diminishing profitability,” he
said. IBM can save on packaging costs by delivering software and
computing power as a service, though it would recognize some
revenue later than it would with traditional sales. SmartCloud
will also create technology-services revenue as customers seek
to connect their data centers to IBM’s, Mills said.  Forecast  The company’s revenue forecast includes cloud computing and
online software for tasks such as collaboration, data analysis,
sales lead management and supply chain management, IBM said in a
statement. It also includes hardware sales to companies building
private clouds.  “They’re not the first mover, but they’re pretty confident
about their ability to win” in cloud computing, Brian Stevens,
chief technology officer at Linux software provider  Red Hat
Inc. (RHT) , said in an interview. “IBM’s absolutely going to be a
strong player.” Red Hat and IBM have a partnership to supply
Linux to customers.  IBM has an advantage in its existing massive data centers,
which are already equipped to handle customers’ needs, Stevens
said. What’s less clear is whether IBM can convince developers
to use its service instead of the popular Amazon Web Services,
which claims hundreds of thousands of customers, Bloomberg
Businessweek reported last month.  “They don’t have the pioneering mindshare of Amazon,” he
said.  Development Tools  IBM has taken steps to remedy that gap. A year ago, it
began selling versions of its development tools, middleware, and
 database software  that programmers can access over the Web to
build apps. In 2007, IBM and Google started a project to  connect
universities  with computing clouds using open-source software.  More companies are making forays into the market. Hewlett-
Packard said last month it would expand its cloud-computing
offerings within a year. Microsoft said in October it signed up
customers including Toyota Motor Corp., 3M Co. and Lockheed
Martin for its cloud software, called Windows Azure.  SmartCloud will support hardware and operating systems
including Linux, Windows, IBM’s AIX, and the Solaris system
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  got when it bought Sun Microsystems last year.
SmartCloud will also let customers choose storage computers from
IBM and EMC Corp. and a variety of databases, Mills said.
Customers will be able to perform tasks including maintenance
chores on Oracle databases and business applications from SAP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   Katie Hoffmann in New York at 
 khoffmann4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  