-- 
Libya Fight in Stalemate Between Qaddafi Forces, Rebels, U.S. General Says

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-07T17:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/libyan-rebels-say-their-forces-were-hit-by-nato-air-strikes-near-oil-port.html
The fight between Muammar Qaddafi’s
forces and Libyan rebels is settling into a stalemate, the U.S.
general who led the opening phase of the alliance military
operation said, as the U.K. announced that a ship carrying
humanitarian aid reached the besieged rebel-held city of
Misrata.  NATO commanders are deploying more warplanes in their
effort to halt forces loyal to Qaddafi. The military alliance’s
jets flew 73 missions to identify and engage possible ground
targets yesterday, up from 66 the day before. Rebels fleeing
toward the city of Ajdabiya in eastern  Libya  said their tanks
and a convoy were mistakenly hit by North Atlantic Treaty
Organization fighter jets, the  Associated Press  reported. Ten
rebels were killed, Al Arabiya television reported.  U.S. Army General Carter Ham, who heads the U.S.  Africa 
Command, testified before a U.S. Senate panel that the use of
NATO air power is “increasingly problematic” when it comes to
hitting regime forces without endangering civilians and
opposition fighters. Sending arms to the rebels is not a good
idea until U.S. officials have a “better understanding of
exactly who the opposition force is,” he said.  Asked by Republican Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona  whether
the situation on the ground is “basically a stalemate,” Ham
said, “Senator, I would agree with that at present.”  Oil Rises  Crude oil rose to a 30-month high in  New York . Crude oil
for May delivery rose 96 cents to $109.79 a barrel at 12:52 p.m.
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Libya was Africa’s third
biggest oil producer before the conflict began, according to the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  The U.S. withdrew from “strike missions” when it
transferred command to NATO on March 31. U.S. AC-130 gunships,
which can be more accurate than higher-flying jet fighters for
ground-attack missions, remain available to NATO, which also can
request missions by the A-10 “Warthog,” another specialized
ground-attack aircraft, Ham said.  Coalition air strikes have “significantly degraded”
Qaddafi’s ability to attack civilians “with the notable
exception of Misrata,” Ham told the Senate Armed Services
Committee, referring to the coastal city near Tripoli that has
been a battleground for weeks. “That is a particular challenge
and one that I will, frankly, bear responsibility for as long as
I live,” he said.  Relief Ship  A ship carrying food and medical aid has reached Misrata.
The ship, the Marianne Danica, was chartered by the United
Nations World Food Program and was carrying medicine for 30,000
people for one month as well as high-energy protein biscuits for
10,000 people, water purification kits and other aid, U.K.
International Development Secretary  Andrew Mitchell ’s ministry
said in an e-mailed statement today.  Former Libyan Energy Minister Omar Fathi bin Shatwan, who
fled to Malta April 1, said that the situation in Misrata is
dire. “I came from Misrata, a city that has been under siege
for 48 days, people are being killed every day, they have been
surrounded by the loyalist troops and they are attacking all the
time,” he said in an interview. “They have destroyed the city,
cut off all water and electricity supplies. There is no food or
medicines, there is nothing but fear and dead bodies all over
the place,” he said.  NATO Criticized  While Shatwan praised the opening phase of coalition
involvement, he criticized NATO’s command.  “It was good when military action was being led by the
U.S., U.K. and  France , but since NATO took over, it is a mess,
and there is no real will to liberate Libya from the hardships
Qaddafi troops are putting the Libyan people in,” he said.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who met with her
Italian counterpart Franco Frattini in Washington yesterday,
said the two considered how coalition countries can “do more to
help the opposition make very fast progress.” The question of
providing weapons may be discussed further at a meeting of NATO
foreign ministers on April 14 and 15 in Berlin.  The U.K. is seeking to persuade Arab countries to train
Libyan rebels, either directly or by paying private companies to
do the work, a British defense official said, speaking on
condition of anonymity. He said Qatar or other Arab governments
would have to provide the people and finance to avoid any
allegations of Western “boots on the ground.”  Rebels Need Training  Rebels need to be taught how to hold ground and operate
flanking maneuvers to consolidate battlefield advances, the
official said. The U.K. estimates that the number of trained
rebel soldiers is in the high hundreds to about 1,000, the
official said.  Fighting along Libya’s coast has bogged down since rebels
retreated earlier this week under heavy artillery fire from
 Brega , about 150 miles (240 kilometers) south of their
stronghold of Benghazi in eastern Libya. NATO’s bombardment of
Qaddafi’s military hardware, such as tanks and armored fighting
vehicles, has forced the regime to change tactics and hide its
heavy weaponry, Lungescu said.  NATO rejected Libyan regime accusations that its strikes
caused oil-field fires in the Sarir region in the eastern
interior. The alliance said forces loyal to Qaddafi were
responsible for at least one fire in the desert region.  False Report  “The accusation by Colonel Qaddafi that NATO was
responsible for fires in the Sarir oil fields is false and is a
direct result of his attacks on his own people and
infrastructure,” NATO said in an e-mailed statement.  The Sarir oil field was hit by an air strike and production
was completely halted,  Shokri Ghanem , chairman of the state-run
National Oil Corp., said by telephone from Tripoli today.  Many pro-Qaddafi forces have shifted to  pickup trucks 
similar to those used by the opposition, which French Foreign
Minister Alain Juppe yesterday said is making it difficult for
pilots to choose targets.  African leaders are pushing for a settlement that could
involve persuading Qaddafi to relinquish power. The chairman of
the African Union commission, Jean Ping, promised to send a
delegation to Tripoli in coming days, according to an official
who was involved in talks between Clinton and Frattini.  The U.S. and European governments have repeatedly said that
Qaddafi must leave and have rejected diplomatic overtures from
his government.  Waiting for Qaddafi  Curt Weldon, a former Republican member of Congress from
 Pennsylvania , led a private delegation to Tripoli at the
invitation of a Qaddafi aide and told  CNN  today that he expects
to meet the Libyan leader to press him to leave power. State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said Weldon didn’t represent the
U.S. government, though the government was informed of his trip.  The rebels arranged their first international oil sale as
the tanker Equator, which can carry 1 million barrels, departed
the Marsa al-Hariga terminal near the port of Tobruk in rebel-
held eastern Libya, according to ship-tracking data compiled by
Bloomberg. The Equator, whose draft suggested it has a cargo on
board, is now signaling  Singapore  as its destination, the data
show. A full cargo would fetch more than $100 million for the
rebels at the market rate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  