-- 
Libyan Rebel Leader Says Criticism Will Spur NATO to Action

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-04-07T10:09:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/libyan-rebel-leader-says-criticism-will-spur-nato-to-action.html
A Libyan rebel leader said that
criticism of NATO’s bombing campaign over Libya is bringing
results for the opposition seeking to topple  Muammar Qaddafi  as
the military alliance increases the number of warplanes.  Abdel Fattah Younes, the head of the rebel army and
Qaddafi’s former interior minister, told  Al Jazeera  television
that his critique will spur the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization into action. Earlier this week, he castigated the
28-member alliance for not responding to rebel calls and failing
to bomb Qaddafi’s positions.  “I am sure that the words of yesterday will produce a big
change,” Younes told Al Jazeera in comments broadcast today.  NATO commanders are escalating their mission to halt pro-
Qaddafi forces as U.S. and Italian leaders deliberated over how
to improve assistance to the rebel movement, including possibly
supplying arms. The opposition, which has fought running battles
along the coastal road in a bid to end Qaddafi’s 42-year regime,
hasn’t been able to hold territory it gained against the better
armed regime forces in the past six weeks.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who met with her
Italian counterpart Franco Frattini in  Washington  yesterday,
said the two considered how coalition countries can “do more to
help the opposition make very fast progress.” The weapons
question may be discussed further at a meeting of NATO foreign
ministers on April 14 and 15 in Berlin.  Oil Rises  Crude oil erased earlier losses and traded near its highest
price in more than 30 months on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , where the May contract was up 24 cents at $109.07 a
barrel at 9:30 a.m. London time after falling as much as 60
cents to $108.23. The contract rose to $109.15 a barrel
yesterday, the highest front-month price since Sept. 24, 2008.  Fighting along the coast threatens to become a stalemate
after rebel forces retreated earlier this week under heavy
artillery fire from the oil port of  Brega , about 150 miles (240
kilometers) south of their stronghold Benghazi in eastern  Libya .
The rebels gathered on the outskirts of Brega yesterday, though
they didn’t advance, the Associated Press reported.  NATO’s bombardment of Qaddafi’s military hardware, such as
tanks and armored fighting vehicles, has forced the regime to
change tactics and hide its heavy weaponry, the alliance’s chief
spokeswoman Oana Lungescu said yesterday.  Tanks Withdrawn  “We have made it impossible for Qaddafi to use his tanks
against civilians,” Lungescu told  BBC television .  Many pro-Qaddafi forces have shifted to  pickup trucks 
similar to those used by the opposition, which French Foreign
Minister Alain Juppe yesterday said is making it difficult for
pilots to choose targets. NATO jets aimed to fly 198 missions
over Libya yesterday, an increase from 155 the previous day.  African leaders are pushing for a settlement that could
involve persuading Qaddafi to relinquish power. The chairman of
the African Union commission, Jean Ping, promised to send a
delegation to Tripoli in coming days, according to an official
who was involved in talks between Clinton and Frattini.  The U.S. and European governments have repeatedly said that
Qaddafi must leave and have rejected diplomatic overtures from
the Libyan government, which on April 4 called for an
“international dialogue” to resolve the conflict.  Private U.S. Mission  Curt Weldon, a former Republican member of Congress from
 Pennsylvania , led a private delegation to Tripoli at the
invitation of a Qaddafi aide and planned to meet the Libyan
leader yesterday to persuade him to leave power. State
Department spokesman Mark Toner said Weldon didn’t represent the
U.S. government, though the government was informed of his trip.  “I don’t know if it’s helpful or unhelpful,” Toner told
reporters yesterday in Washington.  Anthony Cordesman , a national security analyst at the
Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington,
said the U.S. and its allies need to target Qaddafi’s forces
more aggressively as part of an unspoken regime-change policy.
The coalition must avoid an “unstable stalemate,” he wrote in
a  commentary  on the policy center’s website.  “This means a more obvious ‘taking sides,’ it means
killing Qaddafi forces the moment they move or concentrate,
rather than waiting for them to attack, striking Qaddafi’s
military and security facilities, and finding excuses to strike
his compound,” he wrote.  Oil Tanker Departs  The rebels were preparing to make their first international
oil sale as the tanker Equator, which can carry 1 million
barrels, departed the Marsa al-Hariga terminal near the port of
Tobruk in rebel-held eastern Libya, according to ship-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Equator, whose draft suggested
it has a cargo on board, is now signaling  Singapore  as its
destination, the data show. A full cargo would fetch more than
$100 million for the rebels at the market rate.  Attacks this week by Qaddafi supporters have stopped oil
production from rebel-controlled fields, opposition spokesman
Abdel Hafiz Ghoga said, according to the  Associated Press . Late
yesterday, a Libyan government official said that U.K. warplanes
bombed one of those areas, the Sareer field, killing three
guards, Al Arabiya television said.  A former Libyan energy minister, Omar Fathi bin Shatwan,
has fled to  Malta , Maltese Foreign Minister Tonio Borg said in
an interview.  “I can confirm that Malta has granted humanitarian
protection to Mr. Shatwan, who has escaped from a very dangerous
situation in Misrata,” Borg said today in Valletta. “Shatwan
is a good friend of Malta and is very welcome here. Obviously he
is a private citizen.”  Borg said Shatwan arrived in Malta on April 1.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  