-- 
Libya’s Oil Chief Ghanem Says Air Strike Halts Work at Sarir Field in East

-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-04-07T14:50:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/libya-s-ghanem-says-nato-air-strike-halts-work-at-sarir-field-kills-three.html
Work at the Sarir oil field in
eastern  Libya  halted today after an air strike that killed three
people, the head of the state-run National Oil Corp. said.  Libya’s current crude output is between 250,000 and 300,000
barrels a day, all of which goes to domestic refineries and to
meet local consumption,  Shokri Ghanem , the company’s chairman,
said in a telephone interview from Tripoli.  “All exports are now at a halt,” Ghanem said. “We are
trying to work to ensure the safety of the installations and the
people in that area.”  The Sarir field is wholly controlled by Arabian Gulf Oil
Co., Ghanem said. This company, known as Agoco, said in February
that it was splitting from its parent, National Oil, to join the
protest movement against Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  The rebels, from their stronghold in the eastern city of
Benghazi, have been battling forces loyal to Qaddafi in a bid to
end his 42-year rule. The North Atlantic Treaty Organization has
conducted air raids against loyalist tanks and other heavy
military equipment to support the rebels.  NATO said Qaddafi’s forces caused a fire at Sarir, Al
Arabiya television reported today. Abdeljalil Mayuf, a manager
at Agoco’s information department, said the oil field had been
attacked by Qaddafi loyalists and not by a British jet,
according to Reuters. Bloomberg’s attempts today to reach Agoco
by telephone were unsuccessful.  Divided Oil Wealth  Agoco said in March that it would sell its products
separately from Tripoli-based National Oil. An interim national
council representing Qaddafi’s opponents said on April 1 that
Qatar had agreed to market Agoco oil and create a deposit
account where fees from selling the cargoes could be collected.  Qaddafi opponents were preparing to make their first
international oil sale as the tanker Equator, which can carry 1
million barrels, departed the Marsa al-Hariga terminal near the
eastern port of Tobruk, according to ship-tracking data compiled
by Bloomberg. The Equator, indicated as having a cargo on board,
signaled  Singapore  as its destination, the data show.  Ghanem said that an “unauthorized” tanker had loaded oil
from Libya, adding that Tripoli will “take legal measures
against people that put their hands on Libyan oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  