-- 
Libyan Rebels Hampered by Leader Void, Turkish Official Says

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-04-07T18:20:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/libyan-rebels-hampered-by-leader-void-turkish-official-says-1-.html
Opposition groups in  Libya  and other
Arab nations lack clear leaders and ideology, which will
complicate the task of governing if they take power, said
Turkey’s Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc.  “Had there been a specific single leader and a specific
ideology that drives the opposition movements, then it might be
easier,” Arinc, 62, said in an interview yesterday.  Arinc said he’s concerned extremists or others intent on
doing harm could try to fill leadership vacuums.  In Libya, the rebels won’t be able to build upon the
“complex” government structure created by  Muammar Qaddafi ,
Arinc said. As an example of the dysfunctions of the regime, he
described a visit to Turkey  by a Libyan delegation five years
ago, when he was the speaker of the Turkish Parliament. He said
he asked his guests about the meaning of the long name Qaddafi
gave his country, the Socialist People’s Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.  “After an hour of discussion, I understood that they also
did not know,” Arinc said, speaking through a translator.  Uncertainty over the leadership and composition of the
Libyan rebel movement is prompting caution among NATO and other
potential backers such as Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates ,
even as the coalition escalates its air campaign against pro-
Qaddafi forces. Rebel leaders criticized the alliance this week
for not doing enough to stop artillery attacks that forced them
to retreat.  NATO Probe  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization said today it is
investigating allegations by the rebels that their forces were
hit by alliance air strikes near the oil port of Brega. The
coalition also is discussing whether and how to provide training
and weapons to the inexperienced rebel fighting force.  While the Libyan rebels requested a military intervention
to stop Qaddafi’s targeting of civilians, opposition movements
in the region have made clear they want political change to come
from within, Arinc said.  The United Nations Security Council resolution last month
authorizing military intervention in Libya was “positive”
because it was a response to calls for help from the opposition
as well as the  Arab League  and the  African Union , the minister
said.  Still, Arinc said Turkey had hoped any military
intervention would be undertaken from the start by NATO rather
than being initiated by  France . Turkey is a member of the
alliance.  UN Resolution  NATO took over the air campaign once its members agreed to
carry out the three missions outlined in the UN resolution --
protecting civilians and enforcing an arms embargo and a no-fly
zone.  “We actually could not understand the haste of the French
side to take the lead,” Arinc said. “It should be questioned
where French planes bombed, for example, for what reasons they
bombed in these particular places or who gave them the orders.”  Arinc, named one of Turkey’s three deputy prime ministers
in May 2009, wouldn’t predict how long the Libya military
mission would continue.  “We certainly want that no more bloodshed is seen in the
country and that the unity of the country is preserved,” he
said.  Turkish officials have been in contact with Qaddafi’s
government as well as the rebels and offered to help with any
transition, he said.  Arinc said the ouster of Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak 
shows how specific plans for elections and constitutional
changes can help steer stable transitions.  EU Membership  The Turkish government of Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  has increasingly sought to strengthen ties with
countries in the region and mediate disputes as the European
Union continues to rebuff its bid to become a member.  An effort by Turkey to resolve the impasse between
neighboring Iran and Western nations over the Persian Gulf
country’s nuclear ambitions caused tension with the Obama
administration last year. Arinc said Turkey opposes the
development of nuclear weapons by any country in the region.  Turkey in November backed NATO’s embrace of a U.S. system
to defend against potential missile strikes from  Iran  on the
condition that Iran not be specifically named as a potential
aggressor.  “A country other than Iran can also threaten other
countries with its existing ballistic, chemical or nuclear
materials,” he said.  Radar Issue  Officials in Ankara are still considering whether to allow
a radar base on Turkish territory as part of the system, he
said.  The U.S. favors Turkey as the preferred location, with
 Bulgaria  as one alternative. Poland and  Romania  already have
agreed to accept elements of the defensive system, which is
designed to identify and intercept incoming missiles.  “Of course there are people who are opposing the whole
system, but the government has been very resolute on this
issue,” he said. “We accepted the NATO missile-defense
structure in general, and  Turkey  has become part of it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 