-- 
Icelanders Reject Foreign Depositor Claims, Forcing Year-Long Court Battle

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-11T11:27:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/icelanders-may-reject-icesave-accord-in-april-9-referendum.html
Icelanders rejected a depositor
claims accord with the U.K. and  Netherlands , forcing an
international court battle that the island’s government said
will probably last a year.  A final count showed 59.7 percent of voters said no to the
so-called Icesave agreement, while 40.1 percent said yes, with
voter turnout estimated at 75 percent, the Reykjavik-based
National Electorate Commission said yesterday.  “I fear a court case very much,” Prime Minister Johanna Sigurdardottir said in an interview with broadcaster RUV after
the first results were published. “We will, of course, defend
Iceland’s interests vigorously in this matter.”  The government had hoped a deal would restore investor and
diplomatic relations and end the financial isolation that has
stalled Iceland’s revival from its 2008 banking collapse. The
failure of Landsbanki Islands hf, which offered the high-
yielding Icesave accounts, threatened to leave 350,000 British
and Dutch depositors in the lurch. They were repaid by their
governments, which have turned to Iceland for compensation.  Ratings Downgrade?  Britain is lending Iceland 2.35 billion pounds ($3.85
billion) to help it repay the depositor losses, while the
Netherlands is lending 1.3 billion euros ($1.9 billion).  The latest bill, which set the terms for covering the
depositor losses, was rejected by President Olafur R. Grimsson
in February after being passed by a two-thirds majority in
parliament. The government had reached an agreement with the
U.K. and Netherlands in December.  Iceland, which has been rated junk by  Fitch Ratings  since
Grimsson’s previous Icesave rejection in January 2010, also
faces a rating cut to non-investment grade from Moody’s
Investors Service, the company said Feb. 23.  “What is clear is that there will be a downgrade from
Moody’s and perhaps  Standard & Poor’s ,” said Asgeir Jonsson, an
economist at Reykjavik-based asset manager Gamma. “This will
force the government to postpone its plans to enter the
international bond markets.”  The European Free Trade Association’s Surveillance
Authority in May last year started infringement proceedings
against Iceland under its obligation to cover all depositor
claims. Those proceedings had been shelved during Iceland’s
parliamentary handling of Icesave.  “The Authority has taken note of the outcome of the
Icelandic referendum concerning the Icesave issue,” EFTA said
in a  statement  on its website today. “We now expect a swift
answer from the Icelandic government to our Letter of Formal
Notice of May last year. We will assess the government’s reply
before we take further steps in the case.”  ‘Democratic Self-Confidence’  Grimsson said in a speech that the referendum “enabled the
nation to regain its democratic self-confidence and to express
sovereign authority.” Three days after his veto, he said he
rejected the accord because Iceland’s legal obligation to pay is
“unclear,” adding the matter shows that European banking laws
haven’t been “thoroughly thought out.”  The referendum result shows most voters agree.  “Nowhere does it say that Iceland is legally obliged to
pay for this ridiculous Landsbanki adventure,” said Stefan
Gunnarsson, a shop assistant in Reykjavik. “If a court finds
that we are legally responsible, so be it. Until then: No
thanks.”  Landsbanki Liquidation  Iceland’s negotiating committee in December estimated the
latest Icesave accord would cost the state about 47 billion
kronur ($419 million), while the remainder will be covered by
Landsbanki’s assets. On March 2, it estimated the cost to the
state at 32 billion kronur, less than a third of the Icesave
accord rejected by 93 percent of voters a year ago.  The latest estimates of Landsbanki’s assets “indicate that
the estate will be able to pay over 90 percent of claims for
deposits,” the government said in a statement. Some estimates
even put the coverage ratio at 100 percent, it said.  “The Netherlands and the U.K. will receive a refund of the
funds spent to compensate depositors, regardless of the judicial
process which will now be launched,” said Rosa Bjork
Brynjolfsdottir, a spokeswoman at the Iceland Finance Ministry.  ‘Absolutely Certain’  Grimsson said in an interview with Bloomberg television
today that the U.K. and the Netherlands will likely be repaid
more from the estate than necessary to cover the deposits.  “Now it is absolutely certain, despite this referendum,
that out of the estate Britain and the Netherlands will get up
to $9 billion,” he said.  Iceland has to meet its international obligations and the
Netherlands will ultimately be repaid, Dutch Finance Minister
 Jan Kees de Jager  said yesterday. The “time for negotiation is
over” and “now the court will decide on this,” he said.  His comments were echoed by the U.K.’s Chief Secretary to
the Treasury  Danny Alexander .  “It looks like this process will now end up in the
courts,” Alexander told BBC1’s Andrew Marr Show. “There is a
legal process going on and we will carry on through these
processes to try and make sure we do get back the money that the
British government paid out in past years.”  Bond Sale?  Iceland had hoped to tap international bond markets this
year as 713 million euros in bonds come due, Sigfusson said in
January. The government will review its plans to proceed with
debt sales after the Icesave rejection, he said yesterday. He is
adopting a “wait-and-see” stance on the threat of a downgrade
from Moody’s, he said. Iceland has enough foreign reserves to
cover debt obligations in the “years to come,” he said.  The failure of the Icesave bill to win voter backing won’t
prompt the government to resign, Sigurdardottir told RUV. Even
so, “this outcome will call on us to rethink many things.”  Natasha Butler, a spokeswoman for the European Commission,
said today that the executive “intends to continue membership
talks with Iceland, which won’t be affected by the weekend
vote,” adding that the island “would have to resolve its
obligations on the deposit guarantee program before it wraps up
membership talks.”  Iceland has also relied on a $4.6 billion bailout led by
the  International Monetary Fund  and on  capital controls  to
prevent a sell-off of the krona. The government will discuss its
IMF program with the fund and other contributors to the loan,
including the  Nordic countries , Sigfusson said.  “The Government remains committed to the economic program
supported by the IMF,” it said in a statement. The rejection is
unlikely to “jeopardize economical or financial stability,”
Franek Rozwadowski, the  International Monetary Fund ’s resident
representative told newspaper Frettabladid.  Efforts to ease currency restrictions, which the central
bank estimates are stopping investors from selling about $3.6
billion in krona assets, probably won’t be delayed “much,”
Sigfusson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  