-- 
Tiger Woods Lacks Invincibility Aura for Younger Masters Rivals

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-04-07T12:19:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/tiger-woods-loses-aura-of-invincibility-among-younger-masters-generation.html
The last time  Tiger Woods  wasn’t
favored to win the  Masters Tournament ,  Rickie Fowler  was a 10-
year-old riding dirt bikes in  California .  Fowler, now 22 and playing his first Masters, is among
those poised to challenge for the title at golf’s first major
championship of the year. Oddsmakers don’t list Woods as the
pre-tournament favorite for the first time since 1999, two years
after he won by a record 12 shots.  The Masters, which started today with  Phil Mickelson 
favored to successfully defend his title, marks the 25th
anniversary of  Jack Nicklaus ’s victory at age 46. It’s also
perhaps the best chance lesser-known players have had to win at
the Georgia course since Woods won the first of his four titles
in 1997.  “There could be genuinely 20 guys here who could win,”
 Nick Faldo , who won the last of his three Masters titles in
1996, said in an interview behind the Augusta National Golf Club
clubhouse yesterday. “It’s going to be really widely
contested.”  Nicklaus and Arnold Palmer hit the ceremonial first drives
to begin play this morning under a sunny sky in Augusta, where
temperatures are forecast to be in the mid-70s Fahrenheit (24
Celsius).  Woods’s challengers, some of whom have said they took up
golf seriously after watching his inaugural Masters’ win, come
from all over the world. Five of the top six players in the golf
rankings are non-Americans. Woods, 35, has slipped to No. 7, six
spots behind  Germany ’s  Martin Kaymer , winner of last year’s U.S.
PGA Championship. He tees off at 10:41 a.m. local time, playing
in a group with Graeme McDowell and  Robert Allenby .  ‘Enough to Win’  Second-ranked  Lee Westwood  of  England , last year’s Masters
runner-up, is among the favorites to break through with his
first major title.  “I’m getting quite confident now,” said Westwood, 37, who
is listed as the tournament’s third choice at 15-1 by the Las
Vegas Hilton’s Race & Sports Book. “If it all clicks into place
this week and if I’m on my game, it’s good enough to win.”  Mickelson, 40, is the Hilton’s choice at 13-2 to match
Woods with four victories and starts his first round at 1:48
p.m., in the next-to-last group. Woods is the second choice
among oddsmakers at 9-1.  Odds Gap  Woods last won at Augusta National in 2005. He said he
isn’t discounting his chances, even though he has been going
through swing changes with new coach  Sean Foley  for the past
eight months. After tying for fourth last year, the 14-time
major tournament winner said being the underdog this week
doesn’t offer him any separate motivation.  “Doesn’t matter,” Woods said in a press conference two
days ago. “You still have to play the  golf tournament , right?
Everyone has the same opportunity as I do. You’ve just got to go
out there and play and see where it adds up.”  Woods last began the Masters without the favorite’s tag 12
years ago, when U.K. bookmaker Ladbrokes Plc had him at 6-1
behind  David Duval  at 5-1. In addition to 1997 and 2005, Woods
won the event in 2001 and 2002. He tied for 18th in 1999, with
Jose Maria Olazabal of  Spain  the winner.  In six events this season, Woods hasn’t finished better
than a tie for 10th, at a World Golf Championships tournament in
Miami. Of his 20 rounds this season, he has posted scores in the
60s six times. Only once has he had consecutive rounds below 70.  Winning Chance  One of Woods’s biggest advantages over the years at the
Masters, the length of his tee shots, has been diminished since
1997. That year, Woods was able to hit approach shots with high-
lofted irons onto the greens of many of the course’s par-5
holes, including the now 530-yard 15th, giving him an edge on
his shorter-hitting opponents.  The course now measures 7,435 yards (6,799 meters), about
500 yards longer than 14 years ago.  “I don’t hit driver, wedge into 15 anymore,” Woods said.  Unlike many previous would-be challengers, who faltered
when Woods’s name appeared on leader boards, Fowler and others
from golf’s new generation relish the chance to beat him, coach
David Leadbetter said.  “For the longest time, Tiger had everybody’s number,”
Leadbetter, who has worked with top professionals including
Faldo,  South Africa ’s Ernie Els and  Australia ’s Greg Norman,
said in an interview last month in  Orlando ,  Florida . “You’re
now starting to see players who are not maybe quite as
awestruck. These kids out here now, for wont of a better term,
don’t seem to have any respect.”  Nicklaus  Nicklaus’s 1986 win was his sixth at the Masters and 18th
at a major, both records. He said he doesn’t like watching Woods
struggle.  Woods hasn’t won since November 2009, about two weeks
before he crashed his vehicle into a fire hydrant, touching off
a scandal that resulted in his divorce after he admitted to
extramarital affairs.  “I feel bad for him,” Nicklaus, 71, told reporters two
days ago. “I feel bad that he got himself in that position. I
hope he gets his game back and I hope he comes back and plays
well.”  Until he does, there are plenty of players anxious to put
on the green jacket awarded to the Masters winner on Sunday
afternoon.  “I don’t think some of us young guys are just out trying
to hang around,” said Fowler, who had to be told by a
tournament official to turn his backward-facing hat around
during his April 4 press conference. “We’re out here trying to
win.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta, Georgia, at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  