-- 
Mobile-Phone Cameras With High Resolution Drive 2011 Shipments

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-04-07T07:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/high-resolution-cameras-will-drive-mobile-phone-shipments-above-1-billion.html
Mobile phones equipped with cameras
will pass the 1 billion-unit shipment mark for the first time
this year, with the highest resolution models rising the
fastest, market research firm  Strategy Analytics  said.  Phones offering 8 megapixels and higher are expected to
increase 240 percent this year compared with 21 percent unit
growth for the camera-phone category as a whole, London-based
analyst  Neil Mawston  said in the report.  Worldwide camera-phone shipments are predicted to reach
1.14 billion units, or 74 percent of all handsets sold, the
analysts said. The earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  will cause a
“moderate slowdown” in camera-phone supply for the next three to
12 months, Mawston said by e-mail. Globalized supply chains mean
the effect is unlikely to last longer, he said.  “Mobile phone manufacturers and component makers want to
strengthen their prices with more advanced features,” Mawston
said. “Mobile operators hope advanced camera features will
eventually drive additional usage of advanced services like
augmented reality, while affluent consumers are demanding
improved camera quality for capturing richer photos and
videos.”  So-called augmented reality software combines pictures
taken in through the camera lens with other images to produce a
compound image. Applications include games and software to show
shoppers how they might look wearing particular clothes.  Emerging Markets  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  offers a 12-megapixel camera on its N8
smartphone. Vendors of phones based on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software including Samsung Electronics Co.,  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) ,
 HTC Corp. (2498)  and Sony Ericsson Mobile Communications AB have models
with 8-megapixel cameras.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  may increase its top
resolution from 5 megapixels with its next iPhone.  Higher resolution will increase the load on networks
because of the larger file sizes involved in uploading pictures
and video to the Internet, Mawston said. That won’t necessarily
translate to higher revenue for operators right away, he said.  “Many operators are still struggling to fully monetize
high-end camera phones,” he said. “Most photos and video are
still stored on the phone rather than shared over networks.
Multimedia messaging services have been slow to take off, while
cutting-edge services like augmented reality and 3-D photo
uploads are still emerging and have much to prove.”  About a quarter of phones still don’t have cameras because
of the large volume of low-cost basic phones sold in  Africa ,
Asia and other emerging markets, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  