-- 
Time Warner Cable Seeks Court Judgment to Allow Streaming to IPad in Home

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-07T23:33:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/time-warner-cable-seeks-judgment-on-rights-for-ipad-use-in-homes.html
Time Warner Cable Inc. asked a judge
to rule that its contract with  Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s cable networks
allows it to deliver programming for viewing on electronic
devices, including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads.  Viacom, in a separate complaint also filed today in federal
court in  New York , seeks damages and an order blocking Time
Warner Cable from distributing its programming to iPads and
other portable electronic devices.  Time Warner Cable seeks a judge’s declaration that the
contract allows it to deliver the disputed programming over its
cable systems for viewing on devices of its customers’ choosing.  “Because Time Warner Cable bargained in the Viacom
affiliation agreements to allow its subscribers the flexibility
to receive and watch the programming for which they have paid on
any video display device in the home, Time Warner now seeks a
declaration from this court to make clear that it has the
right,” Time Warner Cable said in its complaint.  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest cable television
operator in the U.S., has 14.4 million customers who subscribe
to one or more of its video, high-speed data and voice services,
the company said. The Viacom programming that Time Warner Cable
plans to distribute to portable devices includes Black
Entertainment TV,  Comedy Central , CMT,  MTV , Nickelodeon, Spike
and VH1.  Contract Rights  Viacom said in its complaint that its contract with Time
Warner Cable doesn’t give the cable company the right to
distribute programming via broadband and claims that it retains
the right to contract with other distributors.  Time Warner Cable released a computer application for the
iPad on March 15. The application allows customers who also
subscribe to its broadband Internet services to stream feeds of
Viacom’s copyrighted entertainment programming directly to iPad
tablets.  More than 300,000 people have downloaded the application,
according to a dedicated website started this week by Time
Warner Cable. Time Warner Cable dropped at least 12 networks
from the application after receiving complaints from those
companies, which included Viacom.  Viacom said in its complaint that the application violates
contractual rights that define and limit Time Warner Cable’s
distribution of its programs, as well as intellectual property
and other rights.  ‘Irreparable Injury’  “Unless enjoined by this Court, if TWC resumes its
unlawful distribution of Viacom’s content, then the iPad App
will result in substantial and irreparable injury to Viacom,”
the company said in its complaint.  “They blatantly grabbed the rights that their competitors
have negotiated in good faith to obtain,” Kelly McAndrew, a
Viacom spokeswoman, said today in an e-mailed statement. “Time
Warner Cable removed our programming from this service only when
they were threatened with a lawsuit and, now, it is asking the
court to declare their brazen acts lawful.”  Alex Dudley, a spokesman for Time Warner Cable, didn’t
immediately return a voice-mail message seeking comment after
regular business hours.  Both Time Warner Cable and Viacom seek unspecified damages
in their complaints. Viacom also seeks statutory damages of
$2 million for each counterfeit mark or a judgment ordering Time
Warner Cable to pay Viacom all profits realized by its wrongful
acts as well as unspecified wrongful damages.  The Time Warner Cable case is  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  v.
Viacom International, 11-cv-002376, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ). The Viacom case is
Viacom International Inc. v. Time Warner Cable Inc., 11-cv-
02387, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  