-- 
IMF Could Borrow in Markets to Boost Resources, Staff Suggests

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-07T20:32:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/imf-could-borrow-in-markets-to-boost-resources-staff-suggests.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
could consider market borrowing as part of efforts to build a
global liquidity safety net, a staff report suggested.  Such a mechanism could allow the Washington-based IMF to
quickly increase lending resources without leaning on its 187
member countries, according to the report. That would give the
institution the means to scale up its response to global
liquidity needs in times of crisis, it said.  “Establishing the modalities for the Fund to borrow from
the markets at short notice to supplement its existing resources
could be worth exploring,” IMF staff wrote in the  report , which
focuses on strengthening the international monetary system.
“This could have the added advantage of offering a relative
safe haven asset during times of global market stress.”  While the  World Bank  sells bonds in the market to raise the
money for loans, the IMF can’t, depending instead on resources
provided by member countries. Direct access to funding could
help the IMF offer short-term liquidity access during crises as
a complement to central bank swaps, among other possibilities.  Other proposals in the report include regular injections of
liquidity in the global system, following the $250 billion
pumped in at the request of the Group of 20 in 2009.  It also suggested expanding the currency basket used by the
IMF, the so-called Special Drawing Rights, to “the most widely
used emerging market currencies.”  This issue is on the G-20 agenda, and  France ’s President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  and Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said last
week that work should start on including the yuan in the basket.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Paris at   srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  