-- 
Sensex May Reach Record in Year as Economy, Profits Grow, Kotak Fund Says

-- B y   S h i k h a r   B a l w a n i
-- 
2011-04-07T13:47:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/india-s-sensex-may-climb-15-18-in-12-months-kotak-mutual-says.html
India ’s benchmark stock index may
climb 15 percent to 18 percent to a record over the next year,
boosted by the nation’s economic growth and corporate earnings,
according to billionaire Uday Kotak’s money management unit.  Lenders, drugmakers, software and capital-goods companies
“stand a good chance” of beating the Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index over 12 months, Krishna Sanghavi, head of
equities at Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Co., which manages
323 billion rupees ($7.3 billion), said in Mumbai today.  The Sensex has fallen 7 percent since reaching a record
close of 21,004.96 on Nov. 5 on concerns that rising inflation
and interest rates would crimp economic expansion and company
profits. The central bank may be nearing the end of raising
rates after lifting borrowing costs eight times since March last
year, said Sanghavi.  “In the next six months or so, we would broadly be done
with the rate-hike cycle and inflation would have peaked,” he
said in an interview. “A lot of positives could emerge.”  Kotak Lifestyle Fund, one of eight equity funds Sanghavi
oversees, has climbed 14 percent over the past year, compared
with a 9 percent gain in the Sensex and an average 8.2 percent
returned by 495 local equity plans tracked by Bloomberg.  The Sensex closed little changed at 19,596.22 in Mumbai
today. It rallied 9.1 percent in March, the biggest monthly
advance since September, as overseas funds turned net buyers,
reversing outflows of $2.2 billion in January and February.
Record foreign flows of $29 billion in 2010 helped the gauge
climb 17 percent, the most among benchmark measures for the 10
biggest equity markets.  ‘Favored Sector’  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) , India’s largest private lender, made up
5.2 percent of Lifestyle Fund’s assets at the end of February,
according to Kotak Mutual Fund’s website. HDFC Bank Ltd., the
second-largest, accounted for 4.4 percent, while drugmakers  Sun
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP)  and Lupin Ltd. comprised more
than 6 percent of assets.  “Banking structurally remains a favored sector for the
longer term” because of rising demand for loans and financial
products, he said. Pharmaceutical companies will benefit from
the expansion of healthcare services providers into smaller
towns and rural areas, he said.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Bankex Index of 14 lenders has
risen 22 percent in the past year, compared with a 9 percent
gain in the Sensex. The  BSE Healthcare Index (BSETHC)  is up 14 percent
and BSE IT Index has rallied 25 percent in the period, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Infrastructure Revival  India’s $1.3 trillion economy will expand as much as 9.25
percent in the year that began April 1, the most since 2008, the
government forecast in February. Inadequate power grids and poor
transport networks may cost the nation 1.1 percentage points of
growth by 2017, according to McKinsey & Co. Finance Minister
Pranab Mukherjee raised the cap on foreign ownership of
corporate infrastructure bonds five-fold to $25 billion on Feb.
28 to attract investments.  Although “India’s infrastructure story has been getting
delayed because of certain policy-making issues and increasing
interest rates, we believe the story has to revive,” Sanghavi
said. The fund may add to shares of capital-goods makers as
projects pick up, he said.  Sanghavi favors shares of software-services companies and
holds a “bearish” view on property stocks.  Kotak-50 Fund in February had 18 percent of its assets in
shares of  Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , Infosys Technologies
Ltd. and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO) , the nation’s biggest software exporters,
according to the website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shikhar Balwani in Mumbai at 
 sbalwani@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at   rbooysen@bloomberg.net  