-- 
Inflation Threat Gets Dove Treatment at Wrong Time: Ros Altmann

-- B y   R o s   A l t m a n n
-- 
2011-04-07T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/inflation-risk-gets-dove-treatment-at-bad-time-commentary-by-ros-altmann.html
So the doves on the Bank of
England’s Monetary Policy Committee have won again. While retail
prices surge more than 5 percent and the consumer-price
inflation index remains at more than double the central bank’s
target, the MPC yesterday voted to keep the benchmark interest
rate at a record low of 0.5 percent.  How much longer can they afford to wait? Only Bank of
England Chief Economist Spencer Dale and MPC members  Martin Weale  and  Andrew Sentance  seem to recognize the danger of
keeping borrowing costs so low. Clearly the  European Central
Bank , which boosted its key interest rate by 25 basis points
yesterday, has a firmer grasp on the risks of inflation.  Recent economic data have heightened concerns that raising
interest rates will hamper the economic recovery or fuel another
recession. This is misguided thinking. By boosting rates now,
the bank can start the long overdue process of bringing interest
rates back to historical norms, without having an adverse impact
on the economic recovery.  The argument for a rate increase is simple: Borrowing costs
were cut to such low levels to combat deflation, but that risk
has now gone, so rates should return to more appropriate levels.
The economy has recovered and inflation pressures have surged.
For the past two years, each time inflation has overshot the
official target, Governor  Mervyn King  has told us that this
alarmingly high inflation rate is only “temporary.”  Short-Sighted Policy  Deputy Governor  Charles Bean  has even gone so far as to say
that savers should be forced to eat into their capital in the
current climate in order to do their bit for the economy, and
help ensure the recovery remains intact. Meanwhile, inflation
keeps getting worse. How short-sighted can policy makers be?  Hoping that inflation will sort itself out on its own over
the coming months is a huge gamble. Sooner or later, the
financial markets are likely to wake up to the reality that
inflation has been effectively used to devalue debts, and they
may then decide that our low levels of interest rates are simply
not an appropriate trade-off for the very real risks we face.  Once we reach that point, it will be too late to preempt
such problems. There would probably be a sudden surge in
interest rates, which would have a devastating effect on the
U.K. economic recovery, much worse than the impact of small
preemptive increases now.  Yield-Hungry Investors  Part of the explanation for our inflation problem is the
 Bank of England ’s quantitative-easing program. This was an
unprecedented experiment -- designed to help stimulate the
economic recovery by keeping borrowing costs artificially low
and weakening the pound -- has simply forced yield-hungry
investors to seek higher returns elsewhere in the world,
particularly in emerging markets.  This has led to a surge of capital into emerging markets,
boosting their economic growth, which in turn has led to much
higher global demand for raw materials. This has then pushed up
global inflation and commodity prices, which has itself fed back
into domestic prices, further fueling the inflation fire.  As a result of keeping rates so low while inflation
accelerates, the U.K. has seen an enormous and unprecedented
transfer of wealth from older savers to younger borrowers -- and
bankers -- over the past few years. This entails demographic
dangers. With inflation eating into savers’ spending power in an
aging population, the whole economy is damaged because
increasing numbers of consumers can’t afford to spend or
increase savings to offset lost income. It is worth remembering
that even at 3 percent a year, inflation will wipe out more than
a quarter of consumers’ purchasing power within 10 years.  Hooked on Debt  Politically, Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Chancellor
George Osborne are probably delighted to see low interest rates.
As the fiscal deficit is so enormous, lower rates and
accelerating inflation make it easier to finance the national
debt. The U.K. economy has been hooked on debt and has been
sustained for too long by rock-bottom rates. But at some point
the addiction becomes lethal. Portugal and  Greece  have already
passed that point. The U.K. doesn’t want to end up in that
position, too.  This means we must show determination to control inflation,
as well as controlling the fiscal deficit. An interest-rate
increase of 25 basis points or 50 basis points and further small
steps in coming months are what is required. Such small moves
would have a minimal impact on the economic recovery, but still
signal the intent of the central bank to tackle inflation
alongside the government’s fiscal consolidation.  Leaving rates so low for so long is taking risks with all
of our futures. If the Bank of England keeps bailing out
borrowers, it is merely putting off the day of reckoning, but it
will eventually arrive. The longer we leave it, the worse the
pain will be. Better the MPC sanction a small increase now than
be forced into much larger moves later.  (Ros Altmann is an economist, investment banker and former
adviser to the U.K. Treasury. She is now director-general of the
retirement advisory group SAGA. The opinions expressed are her
own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ros Altmann at  ros@rosaltmann.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  