-- 
Israel Attack Kills Five in Gaza After Palestinian Missile Hits School Bus

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-07T22:36:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/israel-attack-kills-five-in-gaza-after-palestinian-missile-hits-school-bus.html
Israeli forces attacked the  Gaza
Strip , killing five people, after Palestinians fired an anti-
tank missile at an Israeli school bus, wounding the driver and a
student. Palestinians also fired more than 50 mortar shells.  The militant Islamic group Hamas, which controls Gaza,
declared a ceasefire beginning at 11 p.m. local time yesterday
and said it was doing so to avoid giving Israel a pretext to
make further strikes, according to an e-mailed statement.  Palestinian leaders called for international protection as
the violence escalated yesterday, while Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Israel wouldn’t tolerate a renewal of the serial
rocket attacks from Gaza that led to war three years ago.  “We hope this situation will be contained, but we will not
shy away from any action -- offensive or defensive -- to protect
our citizens,” Netanyahu said while on an official visit to
Prague.  The three-week offensive that Israeli forces opened in
December 2008 left more than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis
dead. Residents of Sedro and other Israeli towns in rocket range
from Gaza have been demanding that  Israel  conduct another large-
scale military operation to stop the attacks. Palestinians blame
Israel for the increased violence.  “It is now time for the international community to
intervene and prevent another round of merciless and
illegitimate military escalation against Palestinian
civilians,”  Saeb Erakat , the former chief peace negotiator who
remains an adviser to Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud Abbas , said in an e-mailed statement.  Hamas Claims Responsibility  Israeli air strikes and shelling yesterday killed five
Palestinians -- two of them militants -- and wounded more than
30 in Gaza, Hamas health official Adham Abu Selmeya said. The
militant wing of Hamas claimed responsibility for firing mortar
shells at Israel and an anti-tank missile at the bus.  Defense Minister Ehud Barak said Israel regards Hamas as
responsible for all attacks from the enclave. Hamas is
considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the European
Union and the U.S.  The U.S. condemned the Palestinian attacks. There was “no
justification” for targeting civilians, State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said.  School Bus Attack  One of the injured from the school bus attack, a teenager
returning from school, was in serious condition, Israel Police
spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said.  The Israeli  air force  confirmed hits on nine “terror-
activity sites” in Gaza and two squads trying to launch
missiles at Israel, the army said in an e-mailed statement. The
army said Palestinians fired at least 50 mortar shells from
Gaza. Netanyahu said the country’s new “Iron Dome” missile
defense system knocked down two projectiles from Gaza.  The latest fighting follows two days of Israeli air strikes
on smuggling tunnels in the territory. At least 15 Palestinians
have been killed in Gaza by Israeli military strikes in the past
two weeks.  “There is a clearly an escalation that recalls the events
of November 2008” when Palestinians fired hundreds of rockets
before the Israeli offensive, said  Gerald Steinberg , a political
scientist at  Bar-Ilan University  near  Tel Aviv . He said the
surge in Gaza may be “a calculated strategy” by Hamas “to
regain international attention which is now focused more on
 Libya  or elsewhere in the region.”  Period of Calm  Hamas, along with other Palestinian factions, said on March
27 that it supports a period of calm with Israel, following a
surge in rocket attacks that began March 19.  Israel’s TA-25 benchmark stock index fell 1.3 percent
yesterday to close at 1,317.69. “Clearly investors are looking
at overall political instability,” said Gilad Alper, senior
analyst at Meitav Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  Netanyahu was in Prague on a diplomatic trip in which he
visited the  Czech Republic  and  Germany  on the same day. Earlier
in Berlin, the Israeli leader asked that people “be patient”
while he figures out how to address Israeli-Palestinian peace
efforts in the face of a changing Middle East.  “The deadlock must be overcome,” German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  told reporters at a joint press conference. Progress is
“urgent -- more urgent than ever.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Prague  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 