-- 
Ivory Coast Cocoa Exports to Resume in Days, UN Envoy Says

-- B y   B i l l   V a r n e r
-- 
2011-04-07T20:33:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ivory-coast-cocoa-exports-to-resume-within-days-un-envoy-says.html
Ivory Coast  President  Alassane Ouattara  will soon announce the resumption of cocoa exports, the
nation’s envoy to the  United Nations  said, predicting that the
country’s economy will recover quickly following the conflict to
remove  Laurent Gbagbo  from office.  “There is a ban on cocoa exports, so he will make an
announcement that the ban is lifted in the coming days,”
Ambassador Youssoufou Bamba, speaking at his nation’s UN mission
in New York, said of Ouattara. “The Ivorian economy is very
strong. As soon as the fighting in Abidjan will be over,
everything will get back to normal very quickly.”  Exports from the world’s leading cocoa producer fell 7.8
percent in the past two weeks on optimism that Ouattara’s
victory was imminent. Cocoa futures for July delivery dropped
$12 today, or 0.4 percent, to $3,002 a ton in  New York .  “This is another negative for prices,” said Thomas Mikulski, a senior strategist at Lind-Waldock, a broker in
 Chicago . “This is more a psychological thing, and people want
to hear that the fight is over and cocoa flow is stabilized.”  Despite the ban, some cocoa was being smuggled, so the flow
from Ivory Coast never stopped completely, Mikulski said.  The conflict was triggered by Gbagbo’s refusal to accept
his loss in the Nov. 28 election to Ouattara, who is recognized
by the international community as the winner. Gbagbo has
retreated to a bunker in his house and has rejected offers to
end the standoff peacefully.  Ban in  Washington   UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, in Washington to meet
with U.S. lawmakers at the Capitol, called on Gbagbo to step
down quickly.  “He has to mind the well-being, safety and security and
prosperity of his people,” Ban said of Gbagbo. “This is the
last opportunity to gracefully exit from this.”  Bamba said Ouatarra would move quickly to “form an open,
inclusive government” that will be a “reflection on the
legitimacy granted to him by the Ivorian people.” It will be
“devoted to good governance, transparency, accountability and,
of course, to peace and reconciliation,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bill Varner in New York at 
 wvarner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  