-- 
Mizuho Said to Drop Prime Brokerage After Hiring Ex-UBS Banker

-- B y   N e t t y   I s m a i l   a n d   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i
-- 
2011-04-07T02:31:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/mizuho-said-to-drop-prime-brokerage-after-hiring-ex-ubs-banker.html
Mizuho Securities Co. dropped plans
to build a prime brokerage business in  Singapore , less than a
year after hiring a former UBS AG executive to oversee it, three
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Alastair Sclater, who joined Mizuho in August to head its
prime brokerage business in Singapore, has left Japan’s third-
largest brokerage by market value, the people said, asking not
to be identified because it hasn’t been announced.  Sclater, the former head of UBS AG’s Singapore prime
brokerage business, didn’t answer calls made to his mobile phone
yesterday and today. Yasunori Fukuda, a spokesman at Mizuho
Securities in  Tokyo , declined to comment.  Competition for hedge-fund business in  Asia  has increased
as banks including Barclays Plc and Citigroup Inc. expand their
prime services teams in the region. While Asia-focused hedge
funds attracted more than $500 million in net new capital in the
fourth quarter, the industry’s total assets of $83.4 billion
remain 17 percent less than the second quarter of 2008,
according to Chicago-based Hedge Fund Research Inc.  Mizuho Bank Ltd. is going to be inspected by  Japan ’s
Financial Services Agency after the lender had system problems
including failures of its automated teller machines. Mizuho had
computer malfunctions since March 15, which delayed transactions
worth more than $10 billion, including salary payments,
curtailing access to funds in the wake of Japan’s most powerful
earthquake on March 11.  Tokyo-based Mizuho started electronic trading in Asia after
hiring a team of 16 former Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
employees in November 2008, targeting hedge funds and
institutional investors with electronic products and systems for
equities trading, two executives familiar with the plan said
then.  Prime brokers provide services such as stock-, cash-lending
and trade clearing. The consulting business and capital
introduction teams help  hedge funds  set up offices and introduce
them to potential investors.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Netty Ismail in Singapore 
 nismail3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  