-- 
Japan Certifies Fish Origins to Europe Amid Fear of Radiation

-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 
2011-04-07T08:50:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/japan-certifies-fish-origins-to-europe-amid-concerns-over-radiation-risks.html
Japan  issued certificates for fish
exports to the European Union after it said only products that
don’t exceed radiation limits or are from areas unaffected by a
nuclear accident would be allowed, the Fisheries Agency said.  Food produced in 12 prefectures closest to a crippled
nuclear power station in Fukushima prefecture are required by
the EU to be tested for radiation, according to the  European
Commission . Certificates of origin are required for products
from other prefectures.  “So far we have issued documents to certify fish origins,
as there were no exports of seafood from the 12 Japanese
prefectures to  Europe ,” Miho Wazawa at the trade office of
Japan’s Fisheries Agency said today in a phone interview.  Russia ’s food-safety watchdog restricted supplies of fish
and marine products from 242 processors in Japan, joining the
U.S. and EU in limiting shipments. India suspended Japanese food
imports for three months or until “credible information” on
the radiation hazard is available, its health ministry said
April 5. Sushi restaurants and hotels, including Shangri-La
Asia’s luxury chain, dropped Japanese seafood from their menus
because of radiation fears.  Japan exported 565,295 metric tons of marine products worth
195 billion yen ($2.3 billion) last year. The northern island of
Hokkaido, and southern prefectures of Kagoshima and Nagasaki are
major shippers of Japanese seafood to overseas markets, said
Rika Tatsuki, a spokeswoman for the National Federation of
Fisheries Co-Operative Associations in Tokyo.  ‘Excessive Reactions’  “Sales of fish from these prefectures are also declining
as the nuclear-plant accident and dumping of radioactive water
from the facility stoked concerns about safety and spurred
excessive reactions from consumers,” she said today by phone.  Tokyo Electric Power Co., operator of the nuclear plant,
dumped radioactive water into the sea for a fourth straight day
today, contaminating the ocean and drawing anger from Japanese
fishermen and countries including  South Korea  and Russia.  Russia imported about 59,000 tons of fish from Japan last
year, consisting mostly of saury, according to Alexander
Savelyev, spokesman for Russia’s Federal Agency on Fisheries.  Japan detected higher-than-acceptable levels of cesium on
April 5 in samples from sand lance caught off the coast of
Ibaraki prefecture, south of Fukushima, where the plant is
leaking radiation. It was the first discovery of tainted seafood
in the country since the March 11 earthquake and tsunami damaged
the nuclear plant, slashing demand for fish produced in the
region and spurring fishermen to halt operations.  Fish Certificates  The Fisheries Agency issued at least four certificates to
Japanese exporters shipping seafood to the EU in the past 10
days, Wazawa said. Japan shipped about 2,000 tons of seafood to
the EU in 2009, or 0.4 percent of the total Japanese exports.  The cesium level detected in samples of sand lance caught
off the coast of Ibaraki was 526 becquerel per kilogram, higher
than Japan’s health ministry standard of 500 becquerel, data
from the Ibaraki prefecture showed.  Testing of sand-lance samples from a fishermen’s group in
the northern town of Hirakata also showed they contained 4,080
becquerel per kilogram of iodine-131. The government set a
radioactive iodine standard for fish at 2,000 becquerel per
kilogram on April 5, the same as the limit for vegetables.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  at 
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  