-- 
Japan Events, Energy Prices Increase Economic Risks, IIF Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-07T20:50:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/japan-events-energy-prices-increase-economic-risks-iif-says.html
Risks to the global economy have
increased because of Japan’s natural disasters, rising energy
prices and strains in  Europe ’s banking system, the Institute of
International Finance said today.  More uncertainty will contribute to higher energy prices,
which have “troubling implications for inflation,  interest
rates  and global growth,” said the IIF, a Washington-based
trade group whose members include commercial banks, investment
banks and insurance companies. The group also said it would
create a task force to study the effects of higher commodity
prices and report to the Group of 20 nations in November.  “We still believe we are looking at a recovery year ahead
of us,” said Charles Dallara, the group’s managing director, at
a press conference in Washington. Still, risks have increased
and global authorities should step up efforts to coordinate
policy, he said.  The IIF hailed the Group of Seven nations’ decision to
intervene to weaken the yen after  Japan ’s earthquake and
tsunami. Phil Suttle, IIF’s economics director, said a broader
intervention that involved the entire G-20 would be an
encouraging sign of stronger cooperation.  The yen is “still too strong” and needs further external
support, Suttle told reporters. He also said countries like
 Brazil  that are using  capital controls  may find other measures,
like allowing their currencies to rise, more helpful dampening
tools.  “Capital controls are a lot like flared trousers,” he
said. “They seemed a good idea at the time, but 20 years on you
realize they’re not so smart.”  Spain ’s ‘Progress’  The IIF said Spain has made “significant progress” in
regaining investor confidence and should be treated differently
than other countries like  Portugal , which is in the process of
seeking a European rescue package. Portugal’s problems stem
primarily from its deficits and weak economy, rather than the
banking crisis at the heart of Ireland’s troubles, the group
said.  Dallara criticized the U.S. strategy of moving forward with
new rules on how to dismantle a large and systemically important
bank before the creation of international best practices. He
also predicted limited success with so-called living wills,
which healthy banks can use to show regulators how they could be
wound down during a crisis.  “Living wills without cross-border resolution is a bit
like having morgues without a cemetery,” Dallara said. “You’ve
got to have both.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Christie in  Washington  at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  