-- 
Jefferies to Buy Prudential Commodities for $430 Million

-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-07T14:06:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/jefferies-to-buy-prudential-commodities-for-430-million-1-.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the investment
bank that’s been expanding since the financial crisis, agreed to
acquire Prudential Bache’s Global Commodities Group for about
$430 million.  The business, now owned by  Prudential Financial Inc. (PRU) , will
be called Jefferies Bache after the acquisition is completed in
the third fiscal quarter, New York-based Jefferies said today in
a statement.  Jefferies Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard B. Handler, 49, has been adding employees as competitors cut staff
in the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s collapse in
2008. The firm increased its headcount by 17 percent to 3,084
employees in the 11 months through Nov. 30 to boost its share of
mergers-and-acquisition deals. Last month it reported first-
quarter profit rose 21 percent as trading and asset-management
revenue climbed.  Prudential’s commodities group, which had revenue of $220
million last year, is profitable, Jefferies said in the
statement. Jefferies Bache will have more than 400 employees in
New York, Chicago,  London ,  Hong Kong  and Hamburg. Patrice Blanc
will be chairman and CEO of the business.  Jefferies has been expanding its fixed-income business,
which increased revenue by 58 percent to $318.1 million in the
three months ended Feb. 28 from the three months ended March 30
last year. The firm appointed Yvonne Downs, chief operating
officer of Jefferies Futures Division, to work with Blanc to
build-out the futures and options trading and clearing business
on the financial and commodities markets, Jefferies said in
January.  Prudential’s Focus  Prudential has been phasing out securities-related
businesses as it focuses on life insurance and retirement
products in  Japan  and the U.S. The Newark, New Jersey-based
insurer wound down its institutional-brokerage unit in 2007.
Prudential also sold its minority stake in a securities-
brokerage unit to  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  for $4.5 billion in 2009.
The San Francisco-based bank acquired the brokerage with its
2008 takeover of Wachovia Corp.  “We have focused on businesses that are core to our
mission, and where we believe we can excel,” Prudential CEO
John Strangfeld said in the company’s most recent annual report.
Key drivers of last year’s earnings were from the firm’s
international insurance business, retirement-products unit and
improvement at its U.S. insurance business, he said.  Prudential agreed in September to buy Star Life Insurance
Co. and Edison Life Insurance Co. for $4.8 billion from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , adding to Japanese business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  