-- 
Kenyans Facing Post-Election Violence Charges Appear at Criminal Court

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r   a n d   J u r j e n   v a n   d e   P o l
-- 
2011-04-07T09:46:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/kenyan-mps-radio-host-accused-of-post-poll-crimes-appear-at-icc.html
The  International Criminal Court 
will hold a hearing on Sept. 1 to decide whether to confirm or
drop charges of crimes against humanity against three Kenyans
accused of perpetrating post-election violence in 2008.  Judge Ekaterina Trendafilova set the date today as the
three suspects made their first appearance at the Hague-based
court. Those facing charges include suspended Higher Education
Minister William Ruto, Henry Kosgey, who stepped aside in
January as industrialization minister to allow investigations
into alleged graft, and radio presenter Joshua Arap Sang.  “The allegations that have been made here sound to me like
they can only be possible in a movie,” Ruto said. He and Kosgey
told the court that they wanted more information to fight the
accusations. “I am an innocent journalist,” Sang said.  The court is scheduled to hold a hearing tomorrow for a
second group of accused, including Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , Francis Muthaura, head of the civil service, and
former police chief Mohammed Hussein Ali.  The six men are alleged to have orchestrated violence
following a disputed December 2007 presidential election that
left 1,500 people dead and forced 300,000 to flee their homes.
Peace was restored after President Mwai Kibaki signed a power-
sharing accord with his political opponent,  Raila Odinga , who
was installed in the newly created post of prime minister.  Economy Crippled  The fighting crippled East Africa’s largest economy, with
growth slowing to 1.7 percent in 2008 from 7.1 percent a year
earlier, after farmers neglected their crops and tourists were
scared off. The government forecasts an economic expansion of
5.7 percent this year and about 7 percent by 2013.  Lawmakers in  Kenya  blocked several attempts to push through
legislation to establish a domestic special tribunal to try
suspects, prompting the court’s chief prosecutor, Luis Moreno- Ocampo, to pursue an investigation into the bloodshed.  Kibaki is spearheading a campaign to try to convince the
 United Nations Security Council  to suspend the ICC cases for a
year as the country prepares its legal system to try the cases
locally. The government filed applications last week challenging
the court’s authority to handle the six cases.  Former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, who mediated an end
to the post-election crisis, urged Kenyan leaders in an April 5
statement to “abandon the language of hate and incitement and
allow the ICC process to run its course.”  Trendafilova said that if any suspects make “dangerous
speeches,” the court may replace its voluntary summonses with
arrest warrants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jurjen van de Pol in Amsterdam at 
 jvandepol@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at   smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 