-- 
Kim Jong Il Son’s Cabinet Absence May Signal North Korea Succession Delay

-- B y   B o m i   L i m
-- 
2011-04-07T13:32:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/kim-heir-s-rising-role-may-be-on-show-in-north-korea-parliamentary-session.html
North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il ’s
youngest son and heir-apparent wasn’t mentioned in a list of new
Cabinet members today, signaling that the dynastic transfer of
power isn’t likely to happen soon.  Kim Jong Un, thought to be in his late 20s, was given his
first posts within the ruling Workers’ Party in September,
paving the way to become North  Korea ’s next leader. His name
didn’t feature, though, in government appointments approved at a
parliamentary meeting, according to the state-run Korean  Central
News Agency . The Supreme People’s Assembly did agree on next
year’s budget and a new security minister.  “Not getting elected to a government post doesn’t threaten
Kim Jong Un’s status as the next leader,” said Kim Yong Hyun, a
professor of North Korean studies at  Dongguk University  in  Seoul .
“It just means that Kim Jong Il is confident of his health
conditions to remain leader and that he will take the time he
needs to raise a successor.”  Kim Jong Il plans to extend his family’s 63 years of
dynastic rule as economic woes deepen following a botched
currency revaluation in late 2009 and amid ongoing United
Nations sanctions for North Korea’s nuclear weapons programs.  South Korean officials have said that Kim Jong Il, 69,
appears to have recovered from a stroke in 2008.  Experts including Yang Moo Jin, a professor of the
University of North Korean Studies, have said Kim Jong Un may be
elected to the National Defense Commission, the nation’s highest
government body and chaired by his father.  The post of first vice chairman on the defense commission
has been vacant since Jo Myong Rok died of  heart disease  in
November. The position wasn’t filled at today’s meeting.  Commission Post  Kim Jong Un was made a vice chairman at the commission, a
rank below first vice-chairman, on Feb. 10, South Korea’s Chosun
Ilbo newspaper reported Feb. 16. His appointment will be
formally endorsed at the parliamentary meeting, the newspaper
said then.  The commission has four vice chairmen, including Jang Song
Thaek, Kim Jong Il’s brother-in-law. Jang was appointed at the
last parliamentary session in June in what analysts said was a
move aimed at solidifying a hereditary succession by bestowing
power to a member of the Kim family.  Kim Jong Un was elected to the second-highest military post
in the party and made a four-star general in September when he
was mentioned by state media for the first time.  Kim Kyong Hui, Kim Jong Il’s sister and Jang’s wife, was
made a member of the party’s Politburo also in September.  Leadership Threats  Kim Jong Il appears increasingly concerned about internal
threats to his  leadership , boosting security around his
residences since pro-democracy uprisings erupted in the Middle
East, Kwon Young Se, a lawmaker at  South Korea ’s ruling Grand
National Party, said in a March 16 interview in Seoul. Kwon
cited a report by the  National Intelligence Service  to the
National Assembly’s Intelligence Committee that he chairs.  North Korea’s economy shrank 0.9 percent in 2009, when UN
sanctions banning arms trading and restricting financial
transactions were toughened following the country’s second
nuclear test in May that year, according to the  Bank of Korea  in
Seoul. North Korea doesn’t release its own data.  Kim Jong Il was made the defense commission’s first vice
chairman in 1990, 16 years after he was named successor to his
father and North Korea’s founder,  Kim Il Sung . Kim Jong Il
became  North Korea ’s leader after his father died in 1994.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bomi Lim in Seoul at 
 blim30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  