-- 
NATO Regime-Change Mission Would Need Troops, Spies in Libya

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-07T19:51:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/nato-regime-change-mission-would-need-troops-spies-in-libya.html
Expanding NATO’s mission from
protecting civilians to ousting Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi 
would take a “pretty significant increase” in the military
effort and “probably” require coalition troops or spies to
track him, the head of the U.S. Africa Command said today.  “It would require a very significant increase in the
intelligence collection to be able to track that particular
individual and his movements,” Army General  Carter Ham  told the
Senate Armed Services Committee.  It would also require “military forces to be able to act
on very, very short notice” in response to that intelligence,
Ham said.  Ham commanded the opening days of the airstrikes that
commenced March 19 to protect civilians from  Libya ’s military, a
mission transferred to NATO control this month. He outlined the
requirements for a regime-change mission in response to
questions from lawmakers.  Asked by Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of  Michigan , the
panel’s chairman, whether that expanded mission would require
U.S. soldiers or intelligence officers on the ground, Ham
replied that it may, in some cases, “because this is a very
practiced individual in terms of concealing movements.”  Ham stated he does not favor expanding the mission to
include ousting Qaddafi because that would fracture the
coalition.  “We would find it more difficult to find willing
partners” and it would “have a negative effect on the  Arab
League ,” Ham said.  Stalemate  Ham agreed with the characterization of Republican Senator
 John McCain  of  Arizona  that the conflict is currently in a
stalemate, with Qaddafi’s forces adjusting their tactics to
avoid airstrikes.  “They now operate largely in civilian vehicles and when
those vehicles are intermixed with the opposition forces, it’s
increasingly difficult” to identify targets, he said.  NATO today said it was investigating what may be the
alliance’s second mistaken attack on rebels in a week.    Regime
change on factors beyond NATO military operations, Ham said. “I
do not think it ends militarily,” he said.  Qaddafi’s forces are increasingly putting “their military
vehicles adjacent to civilian aspects -- mosques, schools,
hospitals, civilian areas -- which would result in significant
civilian casualties through the strike of those assets,” he
said.  Removal ‘By Any Means’  One “likely outcome” of the conflict is that Qaddafi’s
inner circle cracks under NATO pressure and tells him he needs
to go, Ham said. Qaddafi’s removal “by any means would end this
relatively quickly.”  Sending arms to the rebels is not a good idea until U.S.
officials have a “better understanding of exactly who the
opposition force is” and whether it has ties to al-Qaeda or
other extremist groups, he said.  “I’m very concerned about the proliferation of weapons,
notably shoulder-fired surface-to-air missiles, which we assess
there were perhaps as many as 20,000 in Libya as the operations
began,” he said.  NATO commanders also have requested use of U.S. AC-130
 gunships  to supplement their air armada, Ham said.  “The AC-130 is clearly a unique U.S. capability, no one
else has a capability like that,” Ham said of an aircraft
that’s been used in most U.S. military operations since the
 Vietnam War .  The U.S. had been keeping those aircraft in reserve. The
 Lockheed Martin Corp (LMT) .- Boeing Co. (BA)  AC-130U is designed to operate
in all weather. It circles above targets that don’t have air
defenses, pummeling them with 40mm and 105mm cannons and a 25mm
Gatling gun.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  