-- 
NATO Raises Libya Tempo as U.S., Italy Discuss Providing Weapons to Rebels

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-04-07T06:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/nato-raises-libya-tempo-as-u-s-italy-discuss-providing-weapons-to-rebels.html
NATO increased the number of
warplanes over  Libya  as U.S. and Italian officials in Washington
discussed whether to arm the rebels to speed the ouster of
 Muammar Qaddafi .  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization’s “operational
tempo has increased,” chief spokeswoman Oana Lungescu said in a
statement.  NATO jets planned to fly 198 missions over Libya
yesterday, up from 155 on April 5, she said, after the top rebel
commander criticized the alliance for not doing enough to stop
artillery attacks that pushed rebels into retreat.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said after meeting
her Italian counterpart Franco Frattini that they discussed how
coalition countries can “do more to help the opposition make
very fast progress.” The two reached no conclusion about
whether to supply weapons to the rebels, according to an
official who wasn’t authorized to talk publicly about their
 Washington  meeting.  Rebels quickly pushed back loyalist forces after airstrikes
began in mid-March. The opposition has since not been able to
hold on to its gains against the better armed pro-Qaddafi forces
and the front lines have been shifting inconclusively.  The U.S. and its allies need to more aggressively target
Qaddafi’s forces as part of an unspoken regime-change policy and
to avoid an “unstable stalemate,” Anthony Cordesman, a
national security analyst at the Center for Strategic and
International Studies in Washington, wrote in a  commentary  on
the policy center’s website.  ‘Taking Sides’  “This means a more obvious ‘taking sides,’ it means
killing Qaddafi forces the moment they move or concentrate,
rather than waiting for them to attack, striking Qaddafi’s
military and security facilities, and finding excuses to strike
his compound,” he wrote.  The weapons question may be discussed further at a NATO
foreign ministers meeting April 14 and 15 in Berlin.  Oil dropped from the highest in 30 months in New York after
 China  raised domestic fuel prices and U.S. stockpiles climbed.
Crude oil for May delivery slipped as much as 47 cents to
$108.36 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange . The contract was at $108.43 at 1:46 p.m.
Sydney time.  Oil Sale  The rebels were preparing to make their first international
oil sale as the tanker Equator, which can carry 1 million
barrels, departed the Marsa al Hariga terminal near the port of
Tobruk in rebel-held eastern Libya, according to ship-tracking
data compiled by Bloomberg. The Equator is now signaling
 Singapore  as its destination, the data show. The cargo may bring
more than $100 million for the rebels.  Attacks this week by Qaddafi supporters have stopped oil
production from rebel-controlled  oil fields , opposition
spokesman Abdel Hafiz Ghoga said, according to the  Associated
Press . Late yesterday, a Libyan government official said that
U.K. warplanes bombed one of those areas, the Sareer oil field,
killing three guards, Al Arabiya said.  NATO’s Lungescu said yesterday in a  BBC  television
interview that a third of Qaddafi’s military assets “have been
destroyed” and that loyalists are now hiding their armor from
NATO in cities such as Misrata. “They are using human shields
in effect,” she said.  Relinquish Power  Curt Weldon, a former Republican member of Congress from
 Pennsylvania , traveled to Tripoli to try to persuade the Libyan
leader to relinquish power, according to an article on the  New
York  Times’ op-ed page yesterday that he wrote. Weldon is
leading a private delegation to Tripoli at the invitation of a
Qaddafi aide.  In other regional developments, the Gulf Cooperation
Council is pushing a plan that would give President Ali Abdullah Saleh of Yemen and his family amnesty in exchange for
relinquishing power, al-Jazeera reported, without citing how it
obtained the information.  U.S. Defense Secretary Robert Gates sought to smooth U.S.
relations with  Saudi Arabia  yesterday in talks in  Riyadh  with
King Abdullah, stressing the two nations’ broad ties even as
they disagree over how to handle the regional unrest. Gates said
they shared concerns that Iranian was trying to stir unrest in
 Bahrain , where the Sunni monarchy called in Saudi security
forces to help suppress Shiite-led protests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  