-- 
Natural Gas Falls a Fifth Day After Smaller-Than-Forecast Inventory Drop

-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   C h r i s t i n e   B u u r m a
-- 
2011-04-07T19:26:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/natural-gas-falls-a-fifth-day-after-smaller-than-forecast-inventory-drop.html
Natural gas futures dropped for a
fifth day, the longest losing streak in more than seven months,
after a government report showed a smaller-than-expected decline
in U.S. stockpiles.  Gas fell 2.2 percent after the Energy Department said
stockpiles declined 45 billion cubic feet in the week ended
April 1 to 1.579 trillion cubic feet. A survey of Bloomberg
users predicted a decline of 56 billion. Temperatures will be
above normal in the U.S. East through April 16, according to MDA
EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  “The smaller storage withdrawal showed the market remains
well supplied,” said  Cameron Horwitz , an analyst in Houston at
Canaccord Genuity. “This will be the last withdrawal of the
season. Looking ahead, we expect a very stout refill season.”  Natural gas for May delivery fell 8.9 cents to $4.057 per
million British thermal units on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , the lowest settlement price since March 16. The five-
day losing streak is the longest since the end of August.  Gas prices this week have slipped below the 50-, 100- and
200-day moving averages.  “The chart now has a decidedly bearish look,”  Mike
Fitzpatrick , a partner with the Kilduff Group in  New York , an
energy-consulting company, said in a note to clients today.  The five-year average change in stockpiles for the week is
an increase of 13 billion cubic feet, Energy Department data
showed. Supplies were 0.6 percent above the five-year average
last week, down from a 4.4 percent surplus the previous week.  The federal agency plans to publish the weekly inventory
data on petroleum and natural gas and the monthly Short-Term
Energy Outlook on the scheduled release dates in the event of a
government shutdown, Jonathan Cogan, a department spokesman,
said in an e-mail.  Disappointing Data  “The data was something of an emotional disappointment,
and since it follows a bearish surprise in the prior week it
also tends to confirm that the overall supply/demand balance is
weaker than had been thought,” said  Tim Evans , an energy
analyst with Citi Futures Perspective in New York, in a note to
clients.  Gas prices didn’t react to a 7.1-magnitude earthquake that
struck Japan minutes before midnight. The quake spared the
stricken Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, according to Tokyo
Electric Power Co.  The aftershock was one of the strongest since a record 9-
magnitude earthquake and tsunami on March 11.  Milder Weather  Gas declined in early trading as forecasts for warmer
weather signaled lower heating-fuel needs. U.S. heating demand
will be 29 percent below average from tomorrow through April 14,
according to Weather Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri .  The high temperature in New York on April 10 will be 63
degrees Fahrenheit (18 Celsius), 4 degrees above normal,
according to  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College , Pennsylvania.
The high in  Chicago  may be 77 degrees, 20 higher than normal.  About 52 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  “At this time of the year you are not going to have much
heating demand,” said  James Williams , an economist at WTRG
Economics, an energy research firm in  London ,  Arkansas .  Gas futures volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was
431,269 as of 2:40 p.m., compared with the three-month average
of 317,000. Volume was 301,790 yesterday. Open interest was
926,224 contracts. The three-month average open interest is
897,000.  The exchange has a one-business-day delay in reporting open
interest and full volume data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Christine Buurma in New York at 
 cbuurma1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  