-- 
Netanyahu ‘Won’t Shy Away’ From Action to Stop Gaza Attacks

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   G w e n   A c k e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-07T18:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/netanyahu-won-t-shy-away-from-action-to-stop-gaza-attacks-1-.html
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said he “won’t shy away” from action to stop
attacks from the  Gaza Strip  after a missile hit a school bus
and more than 50 mortar shells and rockets hit  Israel ’s south.  Israeli strikes on Gaza killed four Palestinians today and
wounded more than 30, Hamas health official Adham Abu Selmeya
said. The militant wing of Hamas, the group that controls Gaza,
claimed responsibility for firing mortar shells at Israel and
the anti-tank missile at the bus.  Speaking in Prague, Netanyahu said he hoped the violence
between Israel and the Hamas-controlled territory “will be
contained.”  Israel in December 2008 carried out a three-week offensive
in Gaza in what it said was a bid to stop rocket fire. More
than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were killed in that
conflict. Israeli officials have said in recent weeks, amid
increased violence in the south, that the country may have to
carry out another large-scale military initiative to stop the
attacks.  Defense Minister Ehud Barak said Israel regards the
Islamic Hamas movement, which controls Gaza, as responsible for
all attacks from the enclave. President Shimon Peres called
Gaza “a terrorist state.” Hamas is considered a terrorist
organization by Israel, the European Union and the U.S.  ‘No Justification’  The U.S. condemned the attacks. There was “no
justification” for targeting civilians, State Department
spokesman Mark Toner said today.  One of the injured from the school bus attack, a teenager
returning from school, was in serious condition, Israel Police
spokesman  Micky Rosenfeld  said.  After the missile hit the bus, four Palestinians, two of
them militants, were killed in Israeli strikes, Abu Selmeya
said. An Israeli army spokeswoman, speaking anonymously
according to regulation, said the military struck a number of
targets in Gaza in response to the missile attack.  An army spokesman’s statement said the  air force  also hit
a group of Palestinians attempting to fire a rocket at Israel.  The latest fighting follows two days of Israeli air
strikes on smuggling tunnels in the territory. Netanyahu said,
after a March 23 bombing in  Jerusalem  that left one person dead
and an escalation in rocket fire from Gaza last month, that
Israel was ready to use “great force” to end attacks against
civilians.  ‘More Urgent’  The use of an anti-tank weapon aimed at a bus “definitely
represents an escalation from rockets fired randomly into
Israeli communities,” said Jonathan Spyer, a political
scientist at the Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya outside  Tel
Aviv . “Netanyahu would find it very difficult not to take a
much stronger response” if the attacks result in any more
Israeli deaths, he said.  Hamas, along with other Palestinian factions, said on
March 27 that it supports a period of calm with Israel,
following a surge in rocket attacks that began March 19. At
least 15 Palestinians have been killed in Gaza by Israeli
military strikes since then.  Israel’s TA-25 benchmark stock index fell 1.3 percent to
close at 1,317.69. “Clearly investors are looking at overall
political instability,” said Gilad Alper, senior analyst at
Meitav Investment House Ltd. in Tel Aviv.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Prague  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Gwen Ackerman at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
barden@bloomberg. 