-- 
New York City Schools Chancellor Black Quits After 4 Months

-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 
2011-04-07T17:43:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/new-york-city-schools-chancellor-black-quits-after-4-months-3-.html
New York City schools Chancellor
Cathie Black, the former Hearst Magazines chairman whose four
months in office drew a 17 percent job-approval rating and
protests from parents, resigned today.  She will be replaced by Dennis Walcott, 59, a deputy mayor
who has overseen education policy since 2002, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said at a news conference at City Hall.  Black, 66, was appointed by Bloomberg in late November to
head the largest U.S. school system. In the past month, separate
public opinion polls conducted by  Quinnipiac University  and
Marist College measured her job-approval rating at 17 percent.
Black, whose children attended private schools, was  jeered  at
some public meetings intended to introduce her to parents.  “It has become increasingly apparent that my ability to
serve successfully as the chancellor of New York City schools is
not possible,” Black wrote in a letter to the mayor. “The
outside forces have become so intense that education reform is
potentially jeopardized, and that will have an impact on the
future opportunities for our schoolchildren.”  The decision that Black should leave her job came during a
meeting she had with the mayor this morning, Bloomberg said.  ‘About Her’  “Cathie and I decided that it would be better to have
somebody else lead our education efforts,” the mayor said. “We
both agreed the story had really become about her and away from
the kids, and that’s not good.  “I take full responsibility for the fact that this has not
worked out,” he said.  As with Bloomberg’s appointment of her predecessor, Joel Klein, a former Justice Department attorney, Black’s lack of
formal school-administrator experience and academic training
required state officials to make an exception to the law before
she could assume the post. Walcott will also need a waiver
because he has no experience as a school administrator,
Bloomberg said.  Political Experience  “The education job, for better or worse, requires strong
political experience, and Dennis Walcott has that,” said
Kathryn Wylde, president and chief executive officer of the  New
York City Partnership , a civic group of more than 100 corporate
executives. “It became clear that the politics were a real
challenge for Cathie.”  Walcott, who attended city public schools from kindergarten
through graduation, served as president and chief executive
officer of the  New York Urban League , a nonprofit civil-rights
organization, before joining the Bloomberg administration in
2002.  His career  includes stints as a public-school kindergarten
teacher and as a member of the defunct city Board of Education.  “I’m just a guy from Queens whose parents were raised in
Harlem,” Walcott said.  He received a master’s degree in education from the
 University of Bridgeport  in  Connecticut  in 1974, the mayor’s
office said. He also earned a master of social work degree from
 Fordham University  in the city in 1980.  He will continue to draw the $213,000 annual salary he
earns as a deputy mayor, not the $250,000 Black and Klein
received as schools chancellor, the mayor said. Walcott will
report directly to Bloomberg and his position as deputy mayor
won’t be replaced, the mayor said.  Cuts Ahead  Walcott  will oversee the mayor’s proposal to cut as many as
6,166 of the city’s 75,000 teaching positions as part of his
plan to close a $2.4 billion deficit, while maintaining improved
test scores and graduation rates.  The system of about 1,700 schools and 1.1 million students
operates on a $19 billion budget with a five-year $13 billion
capital spending plan for new and renovated classrooms.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  