-- 
NFL Players Tell Federal Court They Would Accept Mediation With Owners

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-04-07T21:57:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/nfl-players-tell-federal-court-they-would-accept-mediation-with-owners.html
National Football League  players
seeking a U.S. court order ending an owner-imposed labor lockout
told a federal judge they are willing to try to resolve the
dispute in mediation as she suggested.  Ten players, led by quarterbacks  Tom Brady , Drew Brees and
 Peyton Manning , who sued the NFL last month for antitrust
violations after the collapse of collective bargaining talks,
stated their position in a letter today to U.S. District Judge
Susan Richard Nelson in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota .  The league sent its own letter to the players’ lawyers and
the judge offering mediation under the guidance of George H.
Cohen, head of the  Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service  in
Washington,  Brian McCarthy , an NFL spokesman said via e-mail.  The players’ willingness to go to mediation is subject to
the NFL’s agreement and acceptance of the players’ position that
the talks won’t be used against them “in some way, for example
arguing that such mediation efforts constitute ‘collective
bargaining’ or otherwise arise out of a ‘labor relationship,’”
according the players’ court filing.  Owners of the NFL’s 32 teams declared the lockout after
negotiations to create a new collective-bargaining agreement
failed and the NFL Players Association on March 11 said it would
no longer function as a union. The players’ suit was filed the
same day.  The labor dispute involves the formula by which the New
York-based league and its players would divide about $9 billion
in annual revenue. The NFL draft of college players is still
scheduled to start April 28.  Players Not Paid  During the lockout, players aren’t paid and teams can’t
practice, sign new players or make trades.  Nelson recommended mediation yesterday after hearing five
hours of attorney arguments over whether she should issue the
order and whether the players’ disavowal of their union was
genuine or simply a maneuver to deprive the owners of an
antitrust exemption while bargaining.  “The goal of the discussions,” according to McCarthy’s
message, “would be to resolve all outstanding issues and
achieve a global resolution. As part of our proposal, we offered
to give the players assurances that they will not compromise any
legal position as a result of the discussions.”  James W. Quinn, an attorney for the players, said he’s
“inclined to follow the judge’s suggestion” of court-assisted
talks rather than pursue the league’s proposal to return to
mediation in  Washington .  Quinn, of  New York ’s Weil Gotshal and Manges LLP, said the
Washington forum is no longer appropriate because the players
union has been disbanded and that he has no authority to proceed
there.  “I represent 10 players,” he said. “I can’t negotiate on
behalf of a union that doesn’t exist.”  The case is Brady v. National Football League, 11-cv-00639,
U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota (St. Paul).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kuriloff in New York at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net.ms   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  