-- 
Nigerian President Pledges ‘Credible’ Election After Two Delays in a Week

-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-07T09:53:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/nigerian-president-defends-postponement-of-election-urges-a-peaceful-vote.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
called on voters to return to the polls on April 9, pledging to
hold a “credible” election after two postponements in the past
week.  “I call on you all to come out again, en masse on Saturday
and on all subsequent election days, to cast your vote,”
Jonathan said in an e-mailed statement from his office in the
capital, Abuja, today. The government is committed to the
“conduct of free and fair elections in the country.”  Nigeria, Africa’s biggest oil producer and most populous
nation, rescheduled parliamentary elections that were due to
take place on April 2 because voting materials weren’t delivered
on time to the 120,000 polling booths across the country. Under
the revised schedule released by the Independent National
Electoral Commission, the legislative vote will be followed by
an election for the president on April 16 and for state
governors and legislatures on April 26.  Elections in 2003 and 2007 were marred by violence, voter
intimidation and the stuffing of ballot boxes. More than 50
people have died in election-related violence since July,
according to  Amnesty International , while sectarian clashes in
the north have claimed the lives of at least 200 since Dec. 24.  ‘Optimal Security’  “No one’s political ambition is worth the blood of any
Nigerian,” Jonathan said. “The security agencies have been
directed to provide optimal security for the entire process.”  The parliamentary vote is for 109 Senate seats and 360
seats in the House of Representatives. Jonathan’s People’s
 Democratic Party , which won a majority in both houses four years
ago, will face challenges from the two main opposition parties,
Action Congress of Nigeria and the Congress for Progressive
Change.  The vote is a prelude to the presidential contest that will
match Jonathan against 18 rivals, including former military
ruler Muhammadu Buhari and the ex-head of the anti-corruption
agency,  Nuhu Ribadu , representing the Action Congress of
Nigeria.  Nigeria is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports.
Hague-based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon, California, Total SA of
France and Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90
percent of the West African nation’s oil.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  