-- 
Nigerian Stocks Rise Most in Two Weeks on State Bad-Debt Fund's Bond Issue

-- B y   V i n c e n t   N w a n m a
-- 
2011-04-07T15:44:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/nigerian-stocks-rise-most-in-two-weeks-on-state-bad-debt-fund-s-bond-issue.html
Nigerian stocks surged the most in
two weeks, led by banks, after a state-owned company set up to
buy debts from lenders said it raised 20.7 billion naira ($134
million) in bonds to bolster its loan-buying program.  The Nigerian Stock Exchange All-Share Index rose 0.6
percent, the biggest gain since March 23, to 24,746.88 by 2:30
p.m. in Lagos, according to an e-mailed statement from the
bourse. Zenith Bank Plc, the largest lender by market value,
increased 3 percent to 14.59 naira.  First Bank of Nigeria Plc (FIRSTBAN) ,
the country’s second-biggest lender, rallied the most in more
than a week, adding 2.2 percent to 13.90 naira.  Asset Management Corp. of  Nigeria , which sold the bonds
yesterday, estimates the underlying value of assets bought in
its two phases of debt purchases from the West African nation’s
lenders at about 3 trillion naira, Executive Director Foluke
Dosumu said by phone today. The value of assets bought in the
first phase on Dec. 31 is estimated at 2.48 trillion naira while
that of the second portion, undertaken on March 31, is “about
600 billion naira,” Dosumu said.  “That has restored liquidity to the banks, and you know
liquidity drives banking,” Eugene Ezenwa, chief operating
officer of Sterling Stockbrokers Ltd., a Lagos-based brokerage,
said by phone. “It has also restored investors’ confidence in
the banks.”  The  Central Bank  of Nigeria fired eight chief executives of
lenders in 2009 and bailed out the industry with 620 billion
naira following a debt crisis triggered by defaults on loans to
buy shares.  Amcon’s 20.7 billion-naira bond is part of a series of 1.7
trillion naira of debt issued today. The bonds are the only
portion of the series that are publicly priced, Amcon Managing
Director Mustafa Chike-Obi said April 1.  A second series of bonds totaling 1.3 trillion naira will
be sold to make the lenders the central bank bailed out capital-
neutral, according to  Renaissance Capital .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Nwanma in Lagos at 
 vnwanma@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 