-- 
MNRB, MAA, Malaysian Airline, Telekom: Malaysia Equity Preview

-- B y   C h a n   T i e n   H i n
-- 
2011-04-07T00:15:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/mnrb-maa-malaysian-airline-telekom-malaysia-equity-preview.html
Shares of the following companies
may have unusual moves in Malaysia trading. Stock symbols are in
parentheses and prices are as of the previous close, unless
stated otherwise.  The  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI (FBMKLCI)  Index was little changed at
1,552.89.        MNRB Holdings Bhd. (MNRB)  : The reinsurance company said
it received a short-term revolving credit facility for as much
as 120 million ringgit ($440 million) from MIDF Amanah
Investment Bank Bhd. The money will be used for working capital
requirements and to strengthen the balance sheet of its Takaful
Ikhlas Sdn. unit, the company said in a statement. The stock
rose 2.2 percent to 2.74 ringgit.        MAA Holdings Bhd. (MAA)  : The insurer denied a Business
Times report that the company is poised to sell 70 percent of
its Malaysian Assurance Alliance Bhd. unit to Zurich Insurance
Co. for about 1.2 billion ringgit. Talks for the possible sale
of MAA’s unit to Zurich Insurance are continuing, the company
said in a statement. MAA jumped 22 percent to 1.20 ringgit.        Malaysian Airline System Bhd. (MAS)  : The national
carrier has “several” Boeing Co. 737 jets that need to be
inspected for cracks under guidelines the U.S. planemaker
announced after one of the narrow-body aircraft split open
during flight. “We are managing the situation to ensure that it
will have minimal or no impact to our operations,” Malaysian
Air said in an e-mailed statement. The stock rose 1.1 percent to
1.88 ringgit.    Telekom Malaysia Bhd. (T)  : The Employees Provident
Fund, Malaysia’s biggest pension fund, bought 3.9 million shares
in the state-controlled fixed-lined phone and Internet services
operator, a stock filing showed. The purchase raised its stake
to 12.6 percent, according to the filing. Telekom was unchanged
at 4.04 ringgit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chan Tien Hin in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 thchan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  