-- 
NYSE, Deutsche Boerse Deal Followed Five Months of Talks

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r ,   B r e t t   F o l e y   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-07T23:33:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/nyse-euronext-deutsche-boerse-takeover-deal-followed-five-months-of-talks.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and NYSE
Euronext, which in February agreed to merge, took almost five
months to reach the $9.53 billion deal after first signing a
confidentiality agreement.  The exchanges held unsuccessful talks in the last quarter
of 2008 and started negotiations again in August 2010 before
signing a confidentiality agreement on Sept. 22 last year,
according to a regulatory filing today. The boards reached an
accord on Jan. 17 and advisers met in Amsterdam from Jan. 31 to
Feb. 2 to discuss terms including breakup fees and savings.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire the  New York  Stock
Exchange owner in February for stock worth about $9.5 billion,
helping propel a wave of exchange consolidation that has seen
about $20 billion of deals announced in less than six months.
The value of the Frankfurt-based company’s offer, which  NYSE
Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer  calls a
“merger of equals,” has fallen to about $9.3 billion, or
$35.65 a share, since Feb. 15.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , the second-largest U.S.
futures market, and  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  made an offer for NYSE
Euronext last week, valued at $11.3 billion, countering Deutsche
Boerse. Atlanta-based ICE would take NYSE’s Liffe futures-
trading markets, expanding in Europe. New York-based Nasdaq OMX
would take NYSE Euronext’s listings, equity and options units.  Cash Component  The unsolicited bid is about 22 percent higher at $43.63 a
share and includes $14.24 a share in cash. NYSE Euronext
directors held a telephone briefing the day it was announced,
the filing shows. No decision was made. Niederauer told
employees the day of the joint bid that while he would study it,
the company was “fully committed” to the previous agreement.  The Deutsche Boerse deal aimed to give NYSE Euronext
shareholders 10 percent more than the stock price on Feb. 8, the
day before the companies announced they were in advanced
discussions. The premium was based on other “merger of equals”
deals in the past, according to the filing.  Premiums for similar deals during the past decade averaged
14 percent one month before the close and 4.2 percent one day
before, the filing said, citing  Perella Weinberg , which analyzed
17 “merger-of-equal” all-stock deals similar in value and
ownerships. NYSE Euronext’s premium has since reversed: Deutsche
Boerse is offering shares worth $35.65 as of 4:05 p.m. New York
time, compared with NYSE at $39.52, Bloomberg data show.  Banking Fees  NYSE Euronext agreed to pay Perella Weinberg $5 million on
the announcement of a binding agreement, plus an additional
$22.5 million on completion of the combination, according to the
filing. NYSE also agreed to reimburse the advisory firm for
“reasonable expenses” including legal fees.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to pay its adviser Deutsche Bank AG
about 14 million euros should the NYSE transaction be completed,
according to the filing. If the merger isn’t completed, Deutsche
Boerse will pay the bank a “retainer” of 200,000 euros a month
from January for a maximum of 12 months. Deutsche Boerse will
pay JPMorgan Chase & Co. $10 million, a “substantial portion”
of which will only be paid if the deal is successful, according
to the filing.  Deutsche Boerse owns the Frankfurt stock exchange and is
part-owner of Eurex,  Europe ’s largest futures market. Eurex
bought New York-based International Securities Exchange Holdings
Inc. in 2007. Deutsche Boerse also owns Clearstream, the
region’s second-largest securities-settlement company, as well
as Eurex Clearing.  Paris, Brussels  NYSE Euronext operates the New York Stock Exchange in
addition to European markets in Paris, Brussels, Lisbon and
Amsterdam and the Liffe derivatives market.  Combining NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse would create an
exchange company with operations in 11 countries generating 5.6
billion euros in sales and 869 million euros in earnings
annually, according to a government filing today. Earnings
before interest and taxes for the combined exchange would have
been 1.1 billion euros for the year ending Dec. 31, according to
the document. The combination will lead to 300 million euros
($429 million) in cost cuts within three years of the deal.  The filing showed 98 million euros in cost savings will
come from market operations, which includes European equities
and derivatives and the U.S. options businesses, according to
today’s filing. The technology unit will see 79 million euros in
savings by using one platform and clearing will see 67 million
euros in cuts. Corporate cost savings amount to 56 million
euros, the filing said.  Global Vision  The filing shows how the companies plan to prosper by
increasing their reach in stock, options and derivatives trading
around the world. The vision contrasts with the proposal laid
out on April 1 by Nasdaq OMX and ICE, whose $11.3 billion bid
envisions dismembering NYSE Euronext and boosting earnings by
eliminating overlapping costs.  “If you’re looking at this as a way to create global
exchange competition, the Deutsche Boerse-NYSE deal makes sense
in my mind because they’re further diversifying their footprint
and the products they’re offering,” said Sang Lee, co-founder
and managing partner at Boston-based research firm Aite Group
LLC. “In order to be a successful exchange, you have to have a
global presence.”  Deutsche Boerse  climbed 1.8 percent to 53.03 euros. NYSE
Euronext shares slid 0.7 percent to $39.52. Nasdaq OMX gained
0.8 percent to $29.07, while ICE declined 0.2 percent to
$122.26. The new company will list on the New York Stock
Exchange and trade in New York, Frankfurt and Paris, according
to today’s filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Foley in London at 
 bfoley8@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  