-- 
McIlroy, Quiros Tie For Two-Shot Lead at Masters; Mickelson Trails by Five

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-08T12:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/o-hair-kelly-overton-clark-share-masters-lead-woods-starts-later.html
Rory McIlroy said he was relaxed and
having fun playing alongside fellow young guns Rickie Fowler and
Jason Day at golf’s Masters Tournament. It showed.  The 21-year-old McIlroy fired a 7-under-par 65 to become
the youngest player to hold a share of the lead after the first
round in the championship’s 75-year history. McIlroy had seven
birdies and no bogies yesterday at Augusta National Golf Club in
Augusta,  Georgia , and is tied atop the leader board with Spain’s
long-hitting Alvaro Quiros.  McIlroy, who’s from  Northern Ireland , said the on-course
banter with the 22-year-old Fowler and 23-year-old Day revolved
around cars, boats and “anything but golf.” McIlroy, who turns
22 on May 4, is seeking to become the youngest Masters winner
since  Tiger Woods  claimed the first of his four titles at the
age of 21 in 1997.  “Everything that I’ve been doing since I got the clubs out
again after the New Year has been working toward Augusta,” said
McIlroy, whose lone win in the U.S. came at last year’s Quail
Hollow Championship. “It’s paid off today and hopefully it can
pay off for the next three.”  McIlroy was one of 48 golfers in the 99-player field to
shoot par or better during the opening round, five shy of the
tournament record set in 1991. Defending champion  Phil Mickelson 
is 2-under par, while Woods trails by six after a 1-under 71 as
second-round play has begun today.  South Korea ’s Y.E. Yang and K.J. Choi are tied for third
place at 5-under, one stroke better than Americans  Matt Kuchar 
and  Ricky Barnes .  Eight Birdies  Quiros, 28, birdied the two final holes -- giving him eight
on the day -- to tie McIlroy for the lead. Quiros, who hadn’t
scored better than 75 in his two previous Masters appearances,
was playing in the final group of the day and said he envisioned
how special it would be to be in the same position on the final
day of the tournament.  “It looks like I was playing in the Sunday afternoon in
the leading group,” said Quiros, who leads the European Tour in
driving distance at 314.5 yards. “Normally, I’m watching this
situation through the TV sitting on my sofa. But it was a very
special moment.”  Immelman Record  The only player in the past 25 years to win the Masters
after holding at least a share of the first-round lead was
Trevor Immelman in 2008. A year ago, Fred Couples led after a 66
on Day One and eventually tied for sixth.  McIlroy said he’ll have to perform better than he did in
the second round at last year’s British Open at  St. Andrews  in
 Scotland . He vaulted to the top of the leader board with a 63
there and followed with an 80.  “It was a very valuable lesson in my development as a
golfer,” said McIlroy. “If I do find myself in a bit of
trouble, I have to stick in there and grind it out. That’s
something that I learned in St. Andrews, even though I didn’t do
it that Friday.”  The youngest player to hold a first-round Masters lead had
been Seve Ballesteros, who was 23 in 1980. McIlroy tees off
today at 12:42 p.m. local time and Quiros is scheduled to start
his second round at 10:41 a.m.  Entering the tournament, McIlroy was tied as the fifth
choice among oddsmakers, with Mickelson the favorite to
successfully defend his title. Mickelson had three birdies
yesterday before making his lone bogey on the closing hole.  Missed Opportunities  “I scrambled well, but also let four or five birdie
opportunities slide,” said Mickelson, who tees off at 10:30
a.m. local time today. “I’m going to have to capitalize on
those opportunities (today) to go low.”  Woods, who’s gone 18 months without a win, shot 70 or
higher in the first round for the 16th time in 17 Masters trips.
He had three birdies and two bogeys.  “There’s a long way to go,” Woods, who has a 1:48 p.m.
start today, told reporters. “We have a long grind ahead of us.
I’m very pleased, I’m right there in the ballgame.”  Sergio Garcia of  Spain  is 3-under, along with Ross Fisher
of England, Geoff Ogilvy of Australia, South Africa’s Charl Schwartzel and Immelman, and Brandt Snedeker and Gary Woodland
of the U.S.  Martin Kaymer  of  Germany , the world’s top-ranked golfer, is
tied for 93rd after a 6-over 78.  “I don’t really know how to play the golf course,” said
Kaymer, who added he isn’t sure what adjustments to make for
today. “I can think about another hour or hour and a half or
two hours, and I just don’t really find a solution.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta, Georgia, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  