-- 
Obama Says Meeting ‘Narrowed the Issues’ on Budget Impasse

-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-04-07T03:07:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/obama-says-meeting-narrowed-the-issues-on-budget-impasse.html
President  Barack Obama  said a
meeting tonight with House Speaker  John Boehner  and Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  helped “narrow” some of the issues
in a U.S. budget impasse without achieving a breakthrough.  Obama, speaking at the White House after the session ended,
said negotiators will work through the night and if there isn’t
a resolution by the morning, they will “go back at it again”
tomorrow. He said there is no reason Democrats and Republicans
can’t come to terms on a spending plan to avert a government
shutdown.  “A shutdown would have real effects on everyday
Americans,” the president said after concluding almost an hour
and a half of discussion with the two congressional leaders.  Boehner, an Ohio Republican, stressed there is “no
agreement on a number” for spending cuts in a 2011 budget and
no deal on policy provisions being sought by Republicans in the
meaure.  “No one wants the government to shut down,” he told
reporters outside the White House in brief remarks after the
meeting. Reid, a Nevada Democrat who appeared with Boehner, said
he has “confidence we can get this done.”  Current government spending authority is scheduled to
expire at the end of the day April 8. Without an agreement, all
non-essential government functions would close.  Congressional officials negotiated privately today as
leaders publicly feuded over proposed spending cuts and the
policy directives, and the administration and Congress prepared
for a shutdown.  Services Affected  If the government’s spending authority expires without a
deal, the  Internal Revenue Service  would suspend tax audits, the
Small Business Administration’s processing of loan applications
would be halted and national parks would close an administration
official said.  Government programs that have an impact on the economy
would be among the operations hit, including a suspension of
loan guarantees by the  Federal Housing Administration  and
Environmental Protection Agency reviews of construction
projects, according to the official, who briefed reporters on
condition of anonymity.  About 800,000 government workers out of 2 million total
would be affected by a shutdown, the official said. Military,
 law enforcement ,  homeland security  and other personnel deemed
essential would remain on duty, though their paychecks would be
delayed until the government reopens.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  