-- 
Locking in Rates Rises Most in Two Months as Factories Boom: India Credit

-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 
2011-04-08T10:41:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/locking-in-rates-rises-most-in-two-months-as-factories-boom-india-credit.html
The cost of fixing five-year
borrowing costs in  India  rose the most in two months this week
on speculation companies are expanding production and improving
earnings even after eight interest-rate increases.  The five-year swap contract jumped as high as 18 basis
points this week to touch 8.10 percent yesterday, the most since
early February. Factory output probably climbed 5 percent in
February from a year earlier after January’s 3.7 percent gain,
according to the median of 23 estimates in a Bloomberg News
survey before an April 11 report.  Earnings of India’s biggest businesses for last quarter may
add to signs that the  central bank  has failed to cool the
economy and curb prices with 200 basis points of rate increases
since March 2010, the most among BRIC nations.  Reliance
Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the nation’s largest listed company, may report
a 13 percent jump in net income, while that of  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) 
may triple, separate analyst surveys show.  “Consumer demand is pretty strong and that is keeping
inflation high,” said  Rajeev Malik , a senior economist at CLSA
Asia Pacific Markets in Singapore. “The RBI will stay with its
anti-inflation bias and I don’t think anyone can say that May
will not see a rate hike.”  Malik expects the Reserve Bank of India to raise its
benchmark repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to
7 percent in the May 3 policy announcement. That would be the
ninth move in 15 months.  Capacity Expansion  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the nation’s biggest carmaker,
plans to boost capacity by 21 percent in the year started April
1 as part of investment plans totaling as much as 40 billion
rupees ($905 million), Chief Financial Officer Ajay Seth said in
an interview on April 6. The company’s sales climbed to a record
in March.  The yield on India’s 7.8 percent bond due May 2020 has
climbed three basis points to 7.96 percent in the past month.
Malik expects the yield to touch 8.3 percent by the end of
September.  The industrial production data show consumer demand is
holding up, threatening to stoke India’s inflation, the quickest
after  Russia  among the so-called BRIC nations. Benchmark
wholesale-price inflation rate may accelerate to 8.40 percent in
March from 8.31 percent in the previous month, a Bloomberg News
survey of 19 economists showed before an April 15 report.  ‘Monetary Response’  Reserve Bank  Governor Duvvuri Subbarao predicted last month
the price gauge would reach 8 percent by March 31, 2011,
compared with 7 percent estimated on Jan. 25.  “In the absence of a strong supply response, increasing
demand will inevitably lead to higher prices,” Reserve Bank
Deputy Governor  Subir Gokarn  said April 5. He said a “monetary
response is warranted” if demand exceeds supply and stokes
inflation.  India’s $1.3 trillion economy may expand by as much as 9.25
percent in the year ending March 31, 2012, the finance ministry
forecast in February.  Salaries in India in 2011 may rise the most in the Asia-
Pacific region, a survey by Aon Hewitt LLC showed March 8.
Spending under the government’s National Rural Employment
Guarantee Act of 2005 has surged almost fourfold to 399 billion
rupees.  Indian bonds have returned 2.1 percent this year, the
second-best performance in  Asia  after  Indonesia , according to 10
Asian local-currency debt indexes tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc.
The difference in yields between India’s 10-year bonds and
similar-maturity U.S. Treasuries rose to 437 basis points from
393 points a year ago.  Consumer Demand  “Inflation will remain high on the back of strong consumer
demand,” said Ganti N. Murthy, who manages about $1.1 billion
of assets as head of fixed income at Peerless Mutual Fund in
Mumbai. “Uncomfortably high inflation will keep the RBI in
tightening mode this year.”  Murthy expects the central bank to raise rates by as much
as 50 basis points by the end of September and the yield on the
10-year bond to rise to 8 percent by the middle of May.  Rising oil and commodity costs and sustained economic
growth are escalating pressure on Asian central banks to boost
borrowing costs even as  Japan ’s disaster and  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt woes cloud the global outlook.  China  on April 5 raised
rates for the fourth time in less than six months.  Vietnam ,
 Taiwan ,  South Korea  and  Thailand  increased their benchmark rates
in March or April to curb inflation.  Rising Rupee  The rupee strengthened 1.5 percent against the dollar in
March, the second-best performance among Asia’s 10 most-traded
currencies, as India’s higher interest rates attracted inflows.  The nation’s policy rate of 6.75 percent, which matches
Indonesia’s, is the highest among the region’s 10 biggest
economies. The currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 44.12 a
dollar today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Credit Suisse Group AG said this week India’s central bank
may stop raising rates by the end of 2011 to protect growth.  “Sticky inflation should see the central bank raise rates
another couple of times by July, before growth concerns begin to
emerge,” said  Robert Prior-Wandesforde , an economist at Credit
Suisse in  Singapore . “We would not rule out the possibility of
RBI switching from a tightening to an easing mode toward early
2012.”  India’s economy may grow 7.5 percent in the fiscal year
through March 2012, Prior-Wandesforde said April 5, reducing his
growth forecast from an earlier estimate of 7.7 percent.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned State
Bank of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, fell 7 basis points to 158 basis points on April 6,
according to CMA prices.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in  New Delhi  at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  