-- 
Office Vacancies in Tokyo, Osaka Rise to Record After Worst Japan Temblor

-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u
-- 
2011-04-07T07:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/tokyo-office-vacancy-rises-to-9-2-miki-shoji-says-correct-.html
Office vacancy rates rose to record
high in both  Tokyo  and  Osaka  last month after Japan’s strongest
earthquake, according to Miki Shoji Co.  The measure of unoccupied office units in Tokyo rose to
9.19 percent in March from 9.1 percent a month earlier, while
the vacancy rate in Osaka gained to 12.4 percent from 11.9
percent in February, a Tokyo-based privately held office
brokerage company. Both rates were the highest since Miki Shoji
started compiling data in 1990.  Occupancy rates in Osaka may pick up in the coming months
as Japanese companies rethink their century-long trend of
concentrating resources in Tokyo following the March 11 record
temblor that crimped power supply to the capital and radiation
concern spurred some residents to flee.  Servcorp Ltd. (SRV) , an
office-lease and management firm, and recruiter  Robert Walters
Plc (RWA)  anticipate a pick-up in business in Osaka, the largest city
in Western Japan.  “Going forward, the focus will be on the movement by
tenants that have offices in Tokyo after the earthquake,” Miki
Shoji said in the report released today.  The  Topix Real Estate Index (TPREAL)  dropped 0.5 percent, reversing
an earlier gain of as much as 1.9 percent at the 3 p.m. close on
the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The Tokyo Stock Exchange REIT Index
fell 0.9 percent.  Moving West  Some companies including  Itochu Corp. (8001) , a Japanese trading
company, are considering to relocate their employees to the west
after the magnitude-9 earthquake and ensuing tsunami devastated
northeastern  Japan , crippling Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s nuclear
plants about 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo.  KVH Co., a Tokyo-based information technology and
communication service provider with about 500 employees,
quadrupled its staff in Osaka after the temblor and is
considering longer-term commitment in the city, said Satoko
Furukawa, a spokeswoman at the company.  Servcorp’s office space in Western Japan including Osaka
is now fully occupied, said Minori Nishida, a manager at Sydney-
based Servcorp, a serviced-office provider. The occupancy rate
stood at about 70 to 80 percent on average before the temblor.  “Early indicators show that hiring demand has increased
slightly at regional offices outside Tokyo in areas like Kansai,
Nagoya or Fukuoka,” said David Swan, Managing Director of
Robert Walters Japan and  Korea .  Falling Rent  The average office rent in the Tokyo’s five main business
districts of Chiyoda, Chuo, Minato, Shinjuku and Shibuya in
March fell to 17,495 yen per tsubo ($62 per square meter), the
lowest ever in March, Miki Shoji said. One tsubo, a standard
measure of property area in Japan, is 3.3 square meters, or 35.5
square feet. In February, the rent stood at 17,512 yen a month.  The impact of the quake for property owners may be the
reduction in rental income as rolling blackouts force shops to
close early, said Mikihisa Hirai, president of Atlas Partners
Japan Ltd.  “What is affecting real estate owners the most in Kanto
area, including Tokyo, is electric outage,” Hirai said, adding
that tenants that are being affected may request rent reduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  