-- 
Mondi Group Says It Plans to Spin Off Its South African Packaging Business

-- B y   L a u r e n   v a n   d e r   W e s t h u i z e n
-- 
2011-04-07T15:02:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/mondi-group-says-it-plans-to-spin-off-its-south-african-packaging-unit.html
Mondi Plc,  Europe ’s largest maker of
office paper, said it will spin off its interest in a South
African packaging company and list it separately in Johannesburg
so that it can focus on expanding.  The unit, Mondi Packaging  South Africa , is the only
business owned by Mondi that produces  rigid plastics  and
cartonboard. It accounted for 9 percent of Mondi Group’s revenue
in 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its revenue
from continuing operations in 2010 was 591 million euros ($843
million), Mondi said today in a statement.  “With this particular sale, another portion of the South
African business is removed and therefore it increases their
exposure to Europe,” Mohamed Kharva, an analyst at Nedcor
Securities, who rates Mondi’s stock “sell”, said in an
interview from Cape Town today.  Mondi Ltd. (MND)  will increase its holding in  Mondi Packaging
South Africa  to 90 percent from 70 percent ahead of the spinoff
by recapitalizing the company, it said. Shanduka Group’s
shareholding will decrease its share in the company to 10
percent from 25 percent.  “MPSA is unique within the group,” David Hathorn, Mondi’s
chief executive officer, said in the statement. “MPSA would be
best placed to take advantage of the considerable opportunities
available to it as an independent entity.”  Rothschild  is acting as financial adviser to Mondi Group
and Rand Merchant Bank is acting as financial adviser to MPSA,
Mondi said.  Mondi shares fell 31 cents, or 0.5 percent, to 65.19 rand
in Johannesburg trading, giving the company a market value of
33.6 billion rand ($5 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren van der Westhuizen in  Cape Town  Nef at 
 lvanderwesth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  