-- 
Mongolia Nuclear Push to Take Cue From World Sentiment

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-07T08:33:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/mongolia-s-nuclear-plant-push-to-take-cue-from-global-sentiment.html
(Corrects executive’s name in second paragraph.)  Mongolia will take its cue from the
global reaction to  Japan ’s nuclear disaster before continuing
with plans to build atomic power plants, according to the deputy
chairman of state-owned nuclear company Monatom.  “It will depend on how the world community reacts” to the
accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station that occurred
last month, Tsogtsaikhan Gombo said in an interview in  Singapore .
“We don’t think it’s a big problem for the industry as a whole.
It may be a little set back in the timeframe.”  Mongolia, which has at least 1 percent of the world’s
uranium resources, was planning to start operating its first
nuclear power plant by 2020 and build a nuclear fuel center,
Gombo said. Russia’s Rosatom Corp. last year set up a venture
with Monatom to mine uranium, used to make nuclear fuel, at the
Asian nation’s Dornod deposit. Rosatom agreed also to help
Mongolia develop its nuclear industry strategy.  Almost a month after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami
knocked out backup generators at  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s
Fukushima plant, workers are still using emergency equipment to
try to cool the reactors and plug radiation leaks.  China ,  India ,
the U.K. and  Germany  have said they plan to review further
development of domestic nuclear industries.  Japan’s situation is unlikely to damp interest in Mongolian
uranium deposits or stop the nation from working with Japanese
nuclear companies, Gombo said.  “Currently there is not much foreign investment in the
uranium sector, but we expect there would be huge investments
because the superpowers -- U.S, Russia and China -- are all
interested and competing with each other,” Gombo said.  Mongolia would favor developing its nuclear industry
together with the U.S.,  France  and Japan, as opposed to its two
neighbors Russia and China to “balance” its interests, Gombo
said. China accounts for about 80 percent of Mongolia’s imports
and exports.  --Xiao Yu in Singapore and Yuriy Humber in Tokyo. Editors: Alan Soughley, Keith Gosman  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at +81-3-3201-3521 or
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
Xiao Yu in Singapore at +86 1390 117 2363 or
 yxiao@blooomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  