-- 
Monkey-Toting Mom Climbs ‘Upstairs’; Quinn’s History Lesson: TV

-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 
2011-04-07T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/monkey-toting-lady-climbs-upstairs-quinn-s-acerbic-history-lesson-tv.html
“ Upstairs Downstairs ” dusts itself
off for a swell new sequel 34 years after the classic British
series drew its curtains. Though too tame to sweep the
continents as it did in the 1970s, the three-part miniseries
airing on PBS finds life in the storied manor yet.  “What a ghastly old mausoleum!” Lady Agnes exclaims as she
enters the long-shuttered wreck of a London townhouse at 165
Eaton Place. Audiences familiar with the series only by
reputation might have similar misgivings, but “Upstairs
Downstairs” isn’t nearly as twee -- nor, for that matter, as
tart -- as it could be.  Set in 1936, the new series picks up six years after the
original ended. Young diplomat Sir Hallam Holland (Ed Stoppard)
and his wife Agnes (Keeley Hawes) have moved into the
dilapidated home that once teemed with grandeur and no small
amount of melodrama. Outside,  England  is in flux: a king has
died, another is about to abdicate and the money that once kept
the upper crust in pheasant is dwindling.  Change is unfolding within the Holland household as well.
Hallam’s eccentric, monkey-toting mother Maud (Eileen Atkins)
has arrived, as has Agnes’ troublemaking, convention-flaunting
sister Persie (Claire Foy). Each carries a secret.  New Staff  Downstairs is no calmer. Lady Agnes, unequal to the demands
of domesticity, has hired a new staff, including an efficient,
sweet-natured butler; a brawling young footman; a scullery maid
with a wild streak; a chain-smoking cook; and a handsome
chauffeur with an unsettling interest in both Lady Persie and a
new political movement making inroads from  Germany .  Overseeing it all is Rose, the original’s parlor maid
recruited by the home’s new owners to serve as housekeeper. She
is played now, as then, by the wonderful Jean Marsh, who co-
created the first series with, among others, Atkins. Even when
the story goes soft and maudlin, particularly in the more
implausible moments of the final episode, Atkins and Marsh shine
like polished silverware.  “We have experience, you and I,” Maud confides to Rose. “We
are what that home requires.”  And how. The actresses ground this erudite soap with the
appealing, brittle sentimentality that once seemed the very air
of sophistication. Nostalgia reigns, and not for the 1930s.  “Upstairs Downstairs” airs Sundays on PBS (check local
listings for times.). Rating: ***  ‘Long Story Short’  So, long story short. Funnyman Colin Quinn. Comic re-telling
of world history. Broadway 2010.  HBO  now. Transition, fine.  Details?  Quinn, a featured player on “Saturday Night Live” in the
1990s, recruited  Jerry Seinfeld  to direct his one-man show,
“ Long Story Short ,” a fast riff on humanity’s slow march. The
show was taped at New York’s Helen Hayes Theater in February,
and debuts Saturday on HBO.  Every empire gets the comic’s scrutiny. Britain, Quinn
notes, conquered the world not with size but with contempt.
“This,” his British invaders sniff upon arrival, “is where you
live?”  On stage, the routine was funny but felt rushed, as if Quinn
was trying to outrun the echoes of that big stage. The show is
unchanged for HBO, yet seems a better fit, with cameras trained
squarely on a man facile enough to connect history’s dictators
with those friends of yours who command, “Don’t let me forget my
jacket.”  “Colin Quinn: Long Story Short” premieres Saturday on HBO at
10 p.m.  New York  time. Rating: ***  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 