-- 
Nokia Debt Rating Lowered One Step by Moody’s, Following S&P

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 
2011-04-07T09:26:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/moody-s-downgrades-nokia-to-a3-negative-outlook.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones, had its debt rating cut by Moody’s Investors
Service, which cited the Finnish company’s “weakened market
position” and lower profit margins.  The long-term rating was reduced one step to A3, the
seventh-highest of 10 investment-grade ratings, with a negative
outlook, Moody’s said today. The move followed  Standard & Poor’s 
cut to A- on March 30. Nokia had about 5.3 billion euros ($7.6
billion) in long-term debt at the end of last year.  “The rating downgrade primarily reflects Nokia’s weakened
market position in its core business, mobile devices, which has
reduced the company’s margins and funds from operations,”
Wolfgang Draack, Moody’s senior vice president and lead analyst
for Nokia, said in the statement.  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop, 47, said Feb. 11 that
Nokia would adopt  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows Phone 7 as its main
operating system, tapering off product lines based on its
Symbian software. The CEO now needs to help Microsoft attract
developers to Windows Phone 7 while trying to keep them loyal to
Symbian to keep up sales.  Rival  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android will displace Symbian this year
as the top-selling system used in handsets that enable users to
browse the Internet and download movies and songs, while
Microsoft will have a share of about 5.5 percent, International
Data Corp. forecast last month. Symbian’s share may fall to 0.2
percent in 2015 from 20.9 percent this year, according to the
Framingham, Massachusetts-based researcher.  Smartphone Share  Nokia’s share of smartphone sales by volume declined to
30.8 percent in the fourth quarter from 50.8 percent when  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  began shipping its iPhone in 2007, according to Gartner
Inc. figures. Its overall share of the mobile market tumbled to
about 27 percent from 36.7 percent in the same period.  Moody’s said today that rating pressure may increase if
Nokia’s annual device sales volume were to fall below 340
million units, and smartphones volume to less than 80 million
units, and if the company were to start consuming “material
amounts of cash” over a cumulative 12-month period. The rating
agency placed Nokia’s debt rating under review for a possible
downgrade on Jan. 28.  HTC Corp. (2498) ,  Asia ’s second-largest maker of smartphones,
passed Nokia’s market value as consumers switch to more
powerful, feature-rich phones at the expense of the Finnish
maker’s simpler models.  The 5.3 percent gain of HTC shares in Taipei trading
yesterday took the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company’s market value
to $33.8 billion, exceeding Nokia’s $33.6 billion as of
yesterday. HTC shares closed unchanged today. Nokia lost 0.2
percent to 6.25 euros at 12:17 p.m. in Helsinki.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  