-- 
Mosaic Investors May Sell 35% Stake in May as Cargill Exits

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   J o h n   L i p p e r t
-- 
2011-04-07T20:20:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/mosaic-investors-may-sell-35-stake-in-may-as-cargill-exits.html
Mosaic Co. (MOS)  shareholders may sell as
much as 35 percent of the fertilizer producer’s stock next month
as part of Cargill Inc.’s plan to divest its controlling stake.  As many as 157 million shares, the maximum available, may
be sold in a secondary offering, Mosaic Chief Financial Officer
Larry Stranghoener said. Mosaic said in January at least half
the total would be sold in the offering.  “We could upsize that to as many as 157 million,”
Stranghoener said in an interview yesterday at Mosaic’s
Plymouth, Minnesota, headquarters. “If market conditions are
robust, that’s a possibility.”  Cargill, the commodity trader and the largest closely held
U.S. company, is selling its 64 percent stake in Mosaic. That
will allow trustees of the estate of Margaret A. Cargill, the
late granddaughter of company founder William Cargill, to sell
all its Cargill shares.  Mosaic is forecasting record sales of crop nutrients this
year as farmers increase purchases to improve crop yields
following corn, wheat and soybean price gains.  “Right now it’s a great time to be in this business,”
Stranghoener said. “Investor interest is very high, the market
is doing well.”  Mosaic dropped $1.55, or 1.9 percent, $79.14 as of 4:02
p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange, giving it a market
capitalization of $35.3 billion. The shares have advanced 3.6
percent this year.  Tax-Free  Cargill said Jan. 18 it will swap 179 million of its 286
million Mosaic shares for Cargill stock held by Cargill
investors. The other 107 million Mosaic shares will be swapped
for Cargill debt held by third parties.  The first secondary offering of Mosaic shares, which will
comprise at least half the 157 shares available, will take place
after those transactions -- collectively called the “split-
off” -- have closed. A decision on the size of the offering
will depend on market conditions at the time, Stranghoener said.  Mosaic said in January the 157 million shares will be sold
via secondary offerings within 15 months. The other 129 million
Mosaic shares that Cargill is divesting will be sold in three
installments beginning two-and-a-half years after the split-off.  The split-off will be tax-free to Mosaic, Cargill and their
respective shareholders. The transaction is subject to approval
by Mosaic’s minority shareholders who will get $200 million if
Minnetonka, Minnesota-based Cargill terminates the arrangement.  Plans for the split-off have spurred speculation that
Cargill’s exit will make Mosaic a more attractive potential
takeover target.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Fried Frank Harris Shriver &
Jacobson LLP are advising Cargill on the split-off and JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP are counseling a
special committee of independent Mosaic directors. UBS AG and
Loeb & Loeb are working with the charitable trusts involved in
the deal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in Vancouver 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
John Lippert in  Chicago  at 
 jlippert@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey@bloomberg.net  