-- 
Hospital Errors Occur 10 Times More Than Reported, Study Finds

-- B y   J e f f r e y   Y o u n g
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/hospital-errors-occur-10-times-more-than-reported-study-finds.html
Hospitals and U.S. regulators fail
to record at least 90 percent of patient injuries, infections
and other safety issues, a study found.  A review uncovered 354 so-called adverse events, such as
pressure sores, bloodstream infections and medication errors, at
three U.S. teaching hospitals. A system designed by the federal
 Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality  identified 35 cases
at the same facilities while the hospitals’ voluntary reporting
programs found four, according to the study, published in the
journal  Health Affairs .  An incomplete picture of how often patients are harmed
undermines public and private efforts to improve the quality of
medical services in the U.S., David Classen, a professor at the
 University of Utah School of Medicine  in  Salt Lake City , and his
co-authors conclude.  “Hospitals that use such methods alone to measure their
overall performance on  patient safety  may be seriously
misjudging actual performance,” the researchers wrote.
“Reliance on such methods could produce misleading conclusions
about safety in the U.S. health-care system and could misdirect
patient-safety improvement efforts.”  Voluntary reporting by hospital operators and the U.S.-
sanctioned method for tracking adverse events failed to provide
accurate insights into the safety of U.S. hospitals, the study
found. The report doesn’t disclose the names of the hospitals
because of confidentiality agreements.  Adverse Events  Adverse events occurred during one-third of admissions at
the hospitals, according to the researchers. Classen and his
colleagues studied 795 patient records using the Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based  Institute for Healthcare Improvement ’s
 Global Trigger Tool . The institute’s method involves reviews of
patient charts by nurses, pharmacists and physicians. The
researchers didn’t try to establish whether the harm could have
been prevented.  The U.S. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality’s
 Patient Safety Indicators  uses administrative data collected by
hospitals to detect medical errors. The  Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services  uses these standards to evaluate safety at
hospitals, the researchers wrote.  Donald Berwick , the agency’s
administrator, founded the Institute for Healthcare Improvement.  Efforts to track patient safety intensified after a 1999
report by the U.S. Institute of Medicine found that medical
errors caused as many as 98,000 deaths and more than 1 million
injuries each year.  Injured by Care  A six-year study of hospital admissions in  North Carolina 
published in November in the New England Journal of Medicine
found almost one in five patients were injured by their care.  Medical errors that caused harm to patients cost the U.S.
$17.1 billion in 2008, according a review by the Seattle
consulting firm  Milliman Inc.  of medical claims from 2001
through 2008 that also was published in the current issue of
Health Affairs.  Jill Van Den Bos , a Milliman health-care
consultant, is the lead author.  The study identified about 564,000 injuries to patients
admitted to U.S. hospitals and 1.8 million injuries to people
using outpatient services. The most common and most expensive
injuries were pressure sores and infections following surgery,
Van Den Bos and her colleagues conclude.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey Young in  Washington  at 
 jyoung89@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 