-- 
Tottenham Looks to Sign Anderlecht Striker Romelu Lukaku: Soccer Roundup

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-04-07T10:59:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/tottenham-looks-to-sign-anderlecht-striker-romelu-lukaku-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Lukaku to  London ?  Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp  is looking to sign
Anderlecht striker Romelu Lukaku for 17.5 million pounds ($28.6
million) after the 17-year-old’s scoring drought dimmed interest
from  Manchester United , Chelsea and Manchester City,  the Daily
Mail said.   The 17-year-old had been valued at about 26 million pounds,
but has scored just three times since Christmas, the newspaper
said. West Ham and Everton may still be interested in signing
the player, the newspaper said.  Villa Uncertainty  Aston Villa goalkeeper Brad Friedel and midfielders Nigel Reo-Coker, Robert Pires and Michael Bradley are awaiting a
decision by  Gerard Houllier  on whether they will be at the club
next year,  the Sun said.   The coach may want to provide incentives for the players to
help the club, just two points above the relegation zone, to
stay in the Premier League, the newspaper said.  Dalglish’s Future  Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish ’s future is being undercut
by the club’s injuries, with five players including captain
 Steven Gerrard  hurt going into the last string of matches,  the
Mirror said.   Dalglish, who took over earlier this season, was expected
to get the full-time job in the last several weeks, but losses
to West Ham and West Brom have hurt his standing, the newspaper
said.  Jarvis Competition  Dalglish and Houllier are both vying for Wolverhampton
midfielder Matt Jarvis,  the Mirror said .  Houllier wants the player to replace  Ashley Young , who’s
likely to leave Villa after the season, while the 24-year-old is
one of Liverpool’s targets, the Mirror said.  Mick McCarthy will want at least 8 million pounds for the
player, the newspaper said.  Tottenham’s Escape  Tottenham isn’t likely to face charges from European
soccer’s governing body for chants about former Arsenal player
Emmanuel Adebayor, who scored twice for Real Madrid in its 4-0
defeat of Spurs this week and who said he was singled out for
racist abuse from the visiting fans,  the Telegraph said.   UEFA said there was nothing in the official report on the
match that would spark an investigation, and unless officials or
police file an notification of an offense, the matter won’t be
taken any further, the newspaper said.  Spurs acknowledge that the chants are offensive, but not
racist in nature, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christopher Elser  in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 