-- 
Ouattara Ivory Coast Bond Rally Hinges on Managing Nation's Former Gunmen

-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 
2011-04-07T13:44:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ouattara-ivory-coast-bond-rally-hinges-on-managing-nation-s-former-gunmen.html
Alassane Ouattara’s handling of his
political foes and their gunmen will determine whether he can
attract investors after the prospect of civil war victory
sparked a rally in  Ivory Coast ’s international bonds due 2032.  The former  International Monetary Fund  director inherits a
banking system shuttered by a four-month civil war, a cocoa
industry in danger of losing its dominance of the global market
and a treasury that defaulted on a $2.3 billion bond in January.
The country is also riven by the ethnic and political divides
that fueled 10 years of conflict. Signs of his victory have
driven the price of the Eurobond to a four-month high.  “He’s certainly a president with strong credentials in the
international community,” said  Kevin Daly , who helps manage $6
billion in emerging market funds at Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc in London. “There’s no way investors will come back if you
can’t address the various interests that both his supporters and
rivals have and establish a functioning government.”  Ivory Coast has missed out on a wave of foreign investment
in  Africa  from nations such as  China , crimping economic growth
to an average of  1.1 percent  between 2002 and 2009, compared
with 5.6 percent in neighboring Ghana. To make up for the lost
decade, Ouattara pledged tax cuts during a presidential election
in November, while donors considered scrapping $3 billion of
Ivory Coast’s $14 billion debt.  IMF Sympathy  “I think the IMF and the  World Bank  are going to be quite
sympathetic to the new regime,”  Samir Gadio , an emerging-market
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said from London. “In
terms of debt relief we are probably going to get some results
over the next few years, or next few months.”  Millions of aging cocoa trees need to be replaced to
protect an industry that contributes a third of Ivory Coast’s
export earnings. While the country’s cocoa production was little
changed in the 2009-10 season from 2002-03 at 1.22 million
metric tons,  Ghana ’s output almost doubled to 662,000 tons over
the same period.  Ouattara, who has a Ph.D. in Economics from the  University
of Pennsylvania , served as director for the IMF’s African
department between 1984 and 1988 and governor for the  Central
Bank of West African States  over the next two years. The
prospect of him assuming power has helped the price of the
country’s Eurobond rally 25 percent in 10 days.  Technocrat  “He’s a technocratic guy,” said Alex Vines, Africa
director at the London-based  Chatham House  think tank. “It
remains to be seen if he’ll be able to handle the in-your-
faceness of African politics, where he needs to be juggling the
demands of armed groups and even his political rivals.”  Ouattara, 69, enjoys most of his support in the mainly
Muslim north, which has pitted its interests against a
predominantly Christian south.  Ouattara has appointed Guillaume Soro, a leader of the
rebels that drove back the forces of previous president,  Laurent Gbagbo , as his prime minister.  He will also need to find space in his government for Henri Konan Bedie, who sidelined him to become president in the 1990s.
Bedie threw his weight behind Ouattara in the run-off vote after
he finished third in the first round, helping his former enemy
into first place.  Troops loyal to Ouattara are currently surrounding the
residence of Gbgagbo, who is holed up in a bunker at the house
in Abidjan, the commercial capital, and refuses to surrender.
Gbagbo triggered the political crisis when he refused to accept
defeat in the Nov. 28 election, claiming voter fraud. The  United
Nations , the U.S. and the  African Union  all recognize Ouattara
as the winner.  Cocoa Falls  Cocoa fell 7.8 percent in the past two weeks on optimism
that Ouattara’s victory was imminent. Cocoa for delivery in May
gained 0.4 percent, or $13, to $3,012 per metric ton at 2:20
p.m. in  London . The country’s Eurobond rose for third straight
day, gaining 5.4 percent to 54.47 cents on the dollar, a four-
month high, at 1:21 p.m. in Abidjan, according to Bloomberg
data.  Gbagbo remains key to pacifying his youth militias, known
as the Young Patriots, according to Pierre Schori, the head of
the  United Nations peacekeeping mission  in Ivory Coast between
2005 and 2007.  The former president has portrayed his rival and the rebels
as stooges of former colonial power  France , a view enforced by
joint UN and French strikes that wiped out much of the army’s
heavy artillery on April 4.  ‘Hate Message’  “What Gbagbo says now is extremely important,” Schori
said in an interview from  Stockholm ,  Sweden , where he also acted
as foreign minister. “If he is taken out and his hate message
is still hanging in the air, the Young Patriots will still
believe all the propaganda and continue fighting him.”  The massacre of at least 800 people in the western town of
Duekoue last month as Ouattara’s Republican Forces swept south,
may undermine his attempts to unify the country. Ouattara’s
justice minister has denied responsibility for the killings.  “When you use violence to come to power, those who you’ve
violated will obviously seek revenge,” Ohoupa Sessegnon, a
spokesman for Gbagbo’s  Ivorian Popular Front  party, said in a
phone interview from Johannesburg.  After having acted as prime minister under President Felix Houphouet-Boigny, who led the country to independence, Ouattara
was banned from contesting the 1995 and 2000 elections under a
law that disqualified those who had a foreign-born parent.
Ouattara’s father was born in neighboring  Burkina Faso .  North-South Divide  The political exclusion of Ouattara and other northerners,
many of whose families came from  Mali  and Burkina Faso to work
on cocoa, coffee and cotton plantations, led to the 2002 attempt
to topple Gbagbo.  Still, having won 45.9 percent of the vote against
Ouattara’s 54.1 percent in the election, Gbagbo retains
considerable support, especially in the south.  Ouattara’s “election victory wasn’t a landslide,” Vines
said. “It’s about trying to tie Ivory Coast back together again
after having been divided for about a decade. If he doesn’t show
wisdom in reuniting Ivorians, it’s recipe for further serious
problems.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Franz Wild  in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 