-- 
Ivory Coast’s Ouattara Asks EU to Lift Sanctions on Cocoa Exporting Ports

-- B y   P a u l i n e   B a x ,   O l i v i e r   M o n n i e r   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-04-08T16:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ouattara-calls-on-european-union-to-lift-sanctions-against-key-cocoa-ports.html
Ivory Coast’s president-elect,
 Alassane Ouattara , called on the European Union to lift
sanctions on the key cocoa-exporting ports of  San Pedro  and
Abidjan to revive an economy devastated by four months of
conflict.  Speaking in a televised address late yesterday, Ouattara
said his forces had blockaded the home of former President
 Laurent Gbagbo  and were working to restore order and security to
the West African nation, the world’s top cocoa producer.  “I invite all my compatriots to refrain from acts of
vengeance,” Ouattara, 69, said. “Ivorians from the north, the
south, the east and the west, Ivorians of all faiths, whether
you voted for me or not, I appeal to your sense of dignity and
responsibility.”  Ivory Coast  has been locked in a violent political struggle
since the Nov. 28 presidential election. While Ouattara is the
internationally recognized winner of the vote, Gbagbo, 65, who
ruled for a decade, refuses to cede power and remains bunkered
in the basement of his Abidjan home. Ouattara’s troops, backed
by United Nations and French airstrikes, have failed to force
him out.  The European Commission has received a request to remove
“certain entities” from the sanctions list and is working on
it in consultation with Ouattara, commission spokesman Michael Mann said by telephone from Brussels today. “We hope to be able
to start easing sanctions soon,” he said.  Bodies Found  At least 100 bodies have been discovered in the west of the
country in past 24 hours as a result of two separate incidents,
 Agence France-Presse  reported, citing Rupert Colville, a
spokesman for the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights.  The
dead included some people who had been burned alive and others
who were thrown down a well, the  news agency  said. About 60
corpses were discovered in the town of Guiglo, while some
appeared to be people from neighboring West African countries,
Colville was cited as saying.  UN-backed talks on a peaceful exit for Gbagbo broke down on
April 6 and exile is no longer an option, Youssoufou Bamba, the
Ouattara-appointed ambassador to the UN, was cited by Xinhua as
saying. Gbagbo must be captured alive and made to face justice,
Bamba said.  Looters, Food  Residents in the Cocody area of Abidjan, near Gbagbo’s
residence, reported gangs of armed looters roving the streets.  “It’s not safe to go out. We can see armed guys coming in
groups, in pick-ups,” said Jeanette Gadou, a resident of the
area. “We can see them entering some buildings and stealing
cars, especially four-by-fours,” she said by phone.  Crowds surrounded two supermarkets in Deux Plateaux, said
Jacqueline N’Guessan, a resident who was trying to get food.  “People don’t know for how long it will stay open, and if
it will be safe to go there by foot later in the day,” she said
by phone.  The prospect of a Gbagbo trial before the  International
Criminal Court  may discourage the former president from
surrendering, said David Shinn, a former U.S. ambassador to
neighboring Burkina Faso. The prosecutor’s office of The Hague-
based court  said  it has begun investigations of potential crimes
in Ivory Coast.  Cocoa Crop  “Someone’s trying to find a place to dump him and give
some sort of informal agreement not to put him before the ICC,”
Shinn said in a phone interview from  Washington . “If he’s
convinced they are going to go after him he’ll hang on until the
last dog dies.”  About a third of the country’s 2010-11 cocoa crop, or
440,000 metric tons, has been stockpiled near the port of
Abidjan, the commercial capital. A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S, the
world’s largest container-shipping line, has said it would be
able to send vessels as soon as the EU lifted sanctions it
imposed in January.  Cocoa futures for July delivery fell 1.3 percent to 1,889
pounds ($3,084) a ton at 5:11 p.m. in  London .  Ivory Coast’s defaulted $2.3 billion Eurobond fell for the
first time in four days, declining 1.9 percent to 52.833 cents
on the dollar at 4:13 p.m. in Abidjan.  Reopen Banks  Ouattara asked the Dakar, Senegal-based  Central Bank of
West African States  to reopen its offices in Ivory Coast to help
restore a banking industry shuttered by the crisis and pay
“salaries and arrears.” A noon-to-6 a.m. curfew would be
lifted beginning today, the president said.  The measures are meant to “allow for a progressive return
to normality,” Ouattara said.  Residents of Abidjan have been shut in their homes since
the pro-Ouattara Republican Forces entered the city on April 1
and began their last push to install their leader in office.  Ouattara pledged to investigate all the allegations of
human rights abuses committed during the conflict and bring all
those found guilty to justice.  “All the massacres and crimes will be brought to light”
and “the authors of the crimes will be sanctioned,” he said.  France , which launched helicopter strikes on Gbagbo forces
in Abidjan earlier this week, praised Ouattara’s efforts. “The
page has turned, we are living in a post-Gbagbo era,” said
 Bernard Valero , a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry. “Mr.
Gbagbo is living in his cave.”  Rising Violence  UN peacekeepers rescued five South Korean officials late
yesterday who had been trapped in that embassy’s compound in
Abidjan for six days,  South Korea ’s Foreign Ministry said in a
statement on its website.  Guillaume Soro, Ouattara’s prime minister, urged residents
in Abidjan not to block aid workers from removing bodies,
supplying medicine and restoring water and electricity,
according to an e-mailed statement.  Sexual violence has risen sharply in some areas, with the
International Rescue Committee saying it had recorded a four-
fold increase in the number of reported sexual assaults in parts
of western and central Ivory Coast since December.  “Even if the political and military showdown in Abidjan
ends today, we’re concerned that looting, hostility, bloodshed,
reprisal killings and sexual assaults will escalate in
communities across the country,” Louis Falcy, the aid agency’s
country director for Ivory Coast, said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pauline Bax and Olivier Monnier in Abidjan via Accra at 
   ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 