-- 
Louboutin Sues Yves Saint Laurent Over Red-Sole Shoes Trademark Violation

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-04-07T22:50:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/louboutin-sues-yves-saint-laurent-over-red-sole-shoes-trademark-violation.html
Christian Louboutin SA , the designer
of expensive red-sole women’s shoes popularized by characters on
“Sex and the City,” sued Yves Saint Laurent America Inc.,
alleging it violated Louboutin’s trademark for the footwear.  Louboutin, based in Paris, said Yves Saint Laurent is
selling shoes with red soles that are “virtually identical” to
its own, according to a suit filed today in federal court in
Manhattan. It seeks a court injunction against the sale of the
shoes and damages of at least $1 million.  Saint Laurent has been selling red-sole shoes under brand
names such as Tribute, Palais and Woodstock at high-end fashion
stores that also sell Louboutin footwear, including  Saks Fifth
Avenue ,  Barneys New York  and  Bergdorf Goodman , according to the
complaint.  “Defendants’ use of a red sole on their infringing
footwear threatens to mislead the public, and has impaired
plaintiffs’ ability to control their reputation,” Louboutin
said in the complaint.  Bridget Helene, a spokeswoman for New York-based  Yves Saint
Laurent  America, said in an e-mail that the company had no
comment.  Red Nail Polish  The designer Louboutin got the idea for the red-sole shoes
when he painted red nail polish on the black soles of a pair of
women’s shoes, the complaint states. He introduced the red soles
in 1992 and since then they have been on all of the company’s
luxury shoes, according to the lawsuit.  On  Barneys ’ website, Louboutin red-sole shoes are priced
from $445 to more than $4,000 a pair.  The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office awarded Louboutin a
trademark for the red sole in 2008, according to the complaint.  Louboutin was informed by Yves Saint Laurent executives by
letter in January that they planned to “continue to sell the
infringing footwear,” the lawsuit states.  Yves Saint Laurent is a unit of Paris-based  PPR (PP) , which owns
Gucci and other luxury brands.  Saint Laurent, the Algeria-born French fashion designer,
died in 2008.  The case is Christian Louboutin SA v. Yves Saint Laurent
America Inc., 11-2381, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  