-- 
Though Oil Saved Whales, the Rising Tide Will Get Us: Interview

-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/though-oil-saved-forests-whales-the-rising-tide-will-get-us-interview.html
Scientists who work on issues of
sustainability and global warming often run into some version of
this argument: “The natural-not-human problem that isn’t
happening and wouldn’t matter is too big to handle.”  So writes Richard Alley, who was a member of the 2007 Nobel
Peace Prize-winning UN  climate change  committee, and now teaches
geo-sciences at  Penn State University .  In “ Earth: The Operator’s Manual ,” Alley explains how
carbon dioxide from fossil fuels is raising the planet’s
thermostat and presents practical solutions to the energy
conundrum.  The PBS documentary based on his work premieres April 10.  We spoke in Bloomberg’s New York headquarters.  Lundborg: How is the nuclear catastrophe in  Japan  changing
the energy conversation?  Alley: It’s in flux. Is this a death knell for nuclear?  I
can’t see that it is.  But if nuclear is going to be a big part of the answer,
industry officials are going to have to convince more people
that the plants are highly safe and reliable over long time
periods.  Lundborg: You point out that drilling in the  Arctic
National Wildlife Reserve  might make a lot of money for a lot of
people but it won’t make a big change in the energy independence
of the U.S.  Old Oil  Alley: There is oil that’s walled off environmentally, but
it doesn’t look like it’s huge amounts. We found the easy stuff
and we burned it. We need to find alternatives.  Lundborg: Isn’t solar less complicated than other options?  Alley: We’re going to have plants somewhere, which means
you have to ship the electricity and that ultimately means that
somebody’s going to be unhappy.  The question about energy sources is: “Which ones are
cheaper? Which ones have fewer problems?”  I start the book with a very clear recognition of how much
good we have gotten out of the system we have. If we just come
in and say “Wow, coal is dirty, oil is dirty” we’re not being
honest.  We’re alive because there’s diesel in the tractor, and we
really do have trees and whales because we’re burning oil.  Lundborg: Estimates for warming over the next 100 years
range from 3.2 degrees Fahrenheit to 7.2 degrees Fahrenheit.
Where are you on that scale?  Alley: The biggest source of the uncertainty is the
decisions that we make as people. So, in that sense it depends
on whether people say, “Yes, we want to slow this down and
switch to alternatives.” Then we’re on the lower end.  Rachel Carson  Lundborg: What’s the difference in impact?  Alley: Probably large -- the difference between sea-level
rise being some fraction of a meter to being 20 or 30 even 40
feet eventually.  A change of even a few degrees probably creates a lot of
drought. If crop breeders can figure out which gene to insert to
make corn handle 110 degrees, the worries go down. If not, you
end up with a lot less food growing on the land we have.  Lundborg: When Rachel Carson published “The Silent
Spring,” the Secretary of Agriculture called her a communist.
What have you been called?  Alley: I’ve been called a liar, a cheat, essentially a gold
digger -- “You’re only doing this for the grant money.”  Lundborg: You say the only thing keeping us from
sustainable energy is the will to spend?  Alley: It depends hugely on how fast you do it, but to
stabilize the composition of the atmosphere now, the numbers are
usually around one percent of the world economy -- that’s sort
of what we spend on sewers and clean water.  When we look at the impact of climate change and run the
costs into an economic model, it says start now. Start now
without panicking. That’s the efficient way.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 