-- 
Toymakers Would Get Relief Under Republican Plan

-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 
2011-04-08T20:47:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/toymakers-would-get-regulatory-relief-in-house-republican-plan.html
(Corrects proposal on age limit in sixth paragraph of
story published April 7.)  Makers of toys, bicycles and all-
terrain vehicles are among companies that may get regulatory
relief under a plan by  House Republicans  to rein in the U.S.
Consumer Product Safety Commission.  The legislation also would restrict who may post to a CPSC
 website  that tracks complaints about consumer products ranging
from cribs to kitchen appliances, according to a summary of the
bill.  Four years after a lead scare involving Barbie accessories
from  Mattel Inc. (MAT)  and  RC2 Corp. (RCRC) ’s Thomas the Tank Engine trains,
House Republicans are responding to business group complaints
that a 2008 law to fix the problem went too far. Representative
Mary Bono Mack, a  California  Republican, convened a House
subcommittee hearing on the matter today.  “Legislation that bars the CPSC from making common-sense
decisions about protecting the public has had the unintended
effect of banning safe products while imposing needless, costly
burdens on small businesses,” said Rick Locker, a lawyer who
represents the Toy Industry Association and the Juvenile
Products Manufacturers Association.  Toymakers would benefit if the CPSC were given more
authority to grant exclusions from lead testing where it can
establish there’s limited risk of exposure, Locker said. Small-
scale hand crafters would benefit from such reduced
requirements, he said.  ATVs, Bikes and Books  An array of manufacturers would get a break by redefining
what constitutes a children’s product, and therefore subject to
extra regulatory scrutiny by the CPSC. The current cut-off is
ages 12 and younger. According to the proposal, that limit would
be replaced “with a lower age to be determined.”  The broader children’s product definition ended up
subjecting a broad range of products generally considered low-
risk to expensive tests aimed at protecting young children,
including ATVs, bikes, books, musical instruments and clothes
for older children, Mack said.  “By pushing the age to 12, we ended up regulating a huge
number of products that are never going to be mouthed or even
handled by young children,” Mack said.  The motorcycle industry has said, and the CPSC has
conceded, that the lead limits applied to youth-sized ATVs has
led to children riding adult-sized ATVs.  Motorcycle makers including Honda Motor Co. and  Kawasaki
Heavy Industries Ltd. (7012)  would begin to get relief from one
unintended consequence of the 2008 law -- the virtual end of
sales of youth-sized ATVs, motorcycles and snowmobiles, said
Paul Vitrano, general counsel of the Motorcycle Industry
Council.  Public Awareness  The law “crippled key parts of our industry, costing
manufacturing and dealership jobs across the country,” Vitrano
said.  The CPSC’s website tracking consumer complaints was
specifically authorized by the 2008 law. Lawmakers at the time
wanted to make the public aware of potential safety issues more
quickly.  The site’s implementation has been criticized by business
groups including the Washington-based  National Association of
Manufacturers .  “The database should not be a platform for the submissions
of manufacturers, trade associations,  trial lawyers  or consumer
groups who are trying to make policy or regulatory points,”
said Charles Samuels, general counsel of the  Association of Home
Appliance Manufacturers .  Verify Claims  Republicans are proposing the agency only post items from
people who are injured, members of their families or people
authorized by them. The agency would have to do more to verify
the claims.  The Republican plan goes beyond offering relief to a few
industries caught up in regulatory overreach, said
Representative Henry Waxman of California, the highest-ranking
Democrat on the Energy and Commerce Committee.  “I know it is possible to address these concerns without
gutting the law,” Waxman said.  Consumer and medical experts told lawmakers in prepared
remarks that there were good reasons to keep the 2008 law’s main
provisions in place. The House bill is “a broad attack” that
“narrows the scope of products covered,” said Rachel Weintraub, director of product safety at the  Consumer Federation
of America .  “This moves back the clock on safety and puts children at
risk,” Weintraub said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  