-- 
Pfizer Offers Quigley Beer Building for Asbestos Claims

-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-04-07T21:47:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/pfizer-offers-to-give-quigley-beer-building-to-help-settle-asbestos-claims.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, will contribute assets including a 281,581-square-
foot building leased to a brewery to help its bankrupt, non-
operating Quigley unit pay asbestos claims.  Quigley’s sixth outline of a plan to reorganize, filed in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan  yesterday, also would require
Pfizer to forgive a secured claim of $86 million, a bankruptcy
loan of $12.6 million and unsecured claims of $33 million. The
drugmaker would also contribute $81 million in insurance
proceeds, according to court papers.  “Pfizer will pay $42 million to acquire a commercial
property consisting of an approximately 281,581 square foot
building on approximately 12 acres of land,” according to court
papers. The building is leased to a distributor for “a leading
brewery company,” the filing said.  The lease will produce net income of $1.9 million for the
first year of the lease, with the amount increasing over time,
the papers said. The location of the building and name of the
beer company aren’t specified.  Chris Loder, a spokesman for New York-based Pfizer, didn’t
immediately return a call for comment.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stuart Bernstein refused to allow
Quigley to exit Chapter 11 court protection in September, saying
Pfizer had manipulated the process to benefit itself. Pfizer and
a committee of asbestos claimants won his approval of an
agreement that will support the new Chapter 11 plan, which still
requires court approval.  Steel Industry   Quigley, founded in 1916, made three products for the steel
industry from the 1940s to the 1970s that contained asbestos.
Pfizer bought Quigley in 1968, and the company stopped most
operations in 1992. Pfizer said it never made or sold any
Quigley products, and some claimants hadn’t released Pfizer from
alleged “derivative liability.”  “This ensures that asbestos claimants are not compelled to
surrender their derivative claims against Pfizer without
appropriate compensation,” Quigley wrote in the plan. The plan
would give a 7.5 percent distribution to Quigley claims, and
give 23 percent of the liquidated claim value to claimants who
haven’t dismissed derivative claims against Pfizer.  Asbestos claims against Quigley may total $4.45 billion
during the next 42 years, according to testimony cited by
Bernstein in September. As under prior proposals, Pfizer will
also contribute $264.9 million in cash and all of the stock in a
reorganized Quigley to a trust to pay asbestos claims.  Pfizer in November reported a $701 million third-quarter
charge for asbestos litigation for Quigley. The ad hoc committee
representing 43,100 asbestos claimants asked the court to lift
an injunction that has barred them from bringing claims against
Pfizer since 2004, when Quigley filed for bankruptcy.  The case is In re Quigley Co., 04-15739,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan at 
   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  