-- 
Philippine Peso Gains on Outlook for Foreign-Exchange Reserves

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 
2011-04-07T09:02:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/philippine-peso-gains-on-outlook-for-foreign-exchange-reserves.html
The Philippine peso climbed to a
five-month high on optimism growth in remittances and exports
will buoy the nation’s international reserves.  Foreign-exchange reserves have increased every month in the
12 months through March to reach a record $66.2 billion, an
official report showed today. The value of the peso will remain
market-determined, central bank Governor Amando Tetangco said
this month.  “The sentiment is that the peso will appreciate this year
as the flows remain strong,” said Antonio Espedido, a treasurer
at China Banking Corp. in  Manila . “Gross international reserves
will remain robust and help support the currency.”  The peso gained 0.1 percent to 43.105 per dollar as of 4:00
p.m. in Manila, the strongest level since Nov. 8, according to
Tullett Prebon Plc.  Economists predict the peso will advance to 42 by the end
of the year, according to forecasts compiled by Bloomberg News.
Exports, the nation’s largest source of foreign exchange, rose
11.8 percent in January from a year earlier after having
increased 26.5 percent the previous month. Remittances from
Filipinos living abroad climbed 7.6 percent that month, after
gaining 8.1 percent in December.  Benchmark three-year bonds fell, snapping a two-day rally.
The Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas still sees inflation risks and
may “take further action if necessary,” Tetangco said in Bali,
 Indonesia , today. Inflation held at a nine-month high in March,
with consumer prices rising 4.3 percent from a year earlier, a
report showed this week. The central bank raised its benchmark
interest rate for the first time since August 2008 last month.  The yield on the 6.25 percent note due January 2014 climbed
7.5 basis points, or 0.075 percentage point, to 4.825 percent,
according to Tradition Financial Services.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 