-- 
Portugal Bailout Request Triggers Decline in European Credit-Default Swaps

-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n
-- 
2011-04-07T09:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/portugal-bailout-request-triggers-decline-in-european-credit-default-swaps.html
Portugal ’s decision to seek a
bailout from the European Union triggered a decline in sovereign
and corporate credit-default swaps.  Contracts on Portuguese debt fell 19 basis points to 534 as
of 9:30 a.m. in London, after reaching a record-high 585 on
April 5, according to CMA. The Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of
40 companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 4
basis points to a three-year low of 356, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
prices show.  The Iberian nation’s decision to follow Greece and Ireland
in accepting a rescue eases investor concerns of an imminent
default that would trigger losses for European lenders. Portugal
is aiming for a package that may be worth as much as 75 billion
euros ($107 billion), two European officials with knowledge of
the situation said.  “As the bailout will be in the form of loans it does not
alter the long-term solvency situation,” said  Gary Jenkins ,
head of fixed-income at Evolution Securities Ltd. in London.
“It’s a long way from the end-game. Indeed it could be
characterized as more like the end of the beginning.”  The cost of insuring European bank bonds also fell, with
the Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on subordinated debt
dropping 4.5 basis points to 202.5, according to JPMorgan Chase.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell 0.75 basis point to 94.5. The
index is a benchmark for the cost of protecting bonds against
default and a decline signals improved perceptions of  credit
quality .  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt for five years is equivalent to 1,000
euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a borrower
fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Shanahan in  London  
 mshanahan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  