-- 
Portuguese Banks Climb After Government Requests European Union Bailout

-- B y   J o a o   L i m a   a n d   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 
2011-04-07T17:22:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/portugal-s-banks-advance-after-country-becomes-third-to-ask-for-eu-bailout.html
Portugal ’s banks climbed in Lisbon
trading as the country became the third euro-region nation to
seek a rescue from the European Union after the lenders earlier
this week urged the government to ask for aid.  Banco Espirito Santo SA (BES) , Portugal’s biggest publicly traded
bank by market value, advanced 4.2 percent and was the third-
biggest gainer among members of the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index and
the leading gainer in the Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index.  Banco Comercial Portugues SA (BCP) , the second-biggest
publicly traded lender, climbed 4.1 percent.  “For the Portuguese banks to be able to fund themselves
effectively, they need capital and for people to be confident in
their capital base,” said  Simon Maughan , an analyst at MF
Global in  London . “If the market decides that’s what they need,
that’s what the Portuguese banks will have to deliver. A bailout
will change the time-frame, but not the direction of the total
narrative.”  Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  last night announced that
Portugal will seek a bailout from the EU after the nation’s
political crisis pushed borrowing costs to record levels.
Portuguese banks had urged the government to ask for aid as
downgrades by credit-ratings companies threatened their ability
to borrow in wholesale markets.  Stabilization?  Yields on Portugal’s two-, five- and 10-year bonds have all
reached record levels since Socrates offered to resign on March
23 after parliament rejected proposed budget cuts, leaving him
in charge of a caretaker government with limited powers until a
June 5 election.  Following the aid request, “there may be a stabilization
of yields at levels that are more in line with the reality of
the country’s risk and of the risk of the banks,” Banco
Espirito Santo Chief Executive Officer Ricardo Salgado was cited
as saying in Portuguese newspaper Diario Economico today.  Espirito Santo’s Salgado this week followed Banco Comercial
Portugues CEO Carlos Santos Ferreira in saying the government
should request a loan from the European Commission. The
government should request a short-term loan “urgently” before
the June elections, Salgado said. Longer-term financing from the
 European Financial Stability Facility  seems unavoidable after a
new government takes office, he and Santos Ferreira said.  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday downgraded its ratings
on seven Portuguese banks, including Espirito Santo and Banco
Comercial, joining  Standard & Poor’s  and Fitch Ratings, which
also lowered banks’ ratings after downgrading the country’s
debt.  ECB Financing  EU financial support to Portugal “could be good” for the
country’s banks in terms of liquidity, Olga Cerqueira, an
analyst at Moody’s Investors Service, said by phone yesterday.
“We don’t expect markets will open immediately for Portuguese
banks if Portugal gets support from Europe.”  Portuguese banks have been relying on financing from the
European Central Bank as the government’s difficulties in coping
with its debt and deficit squeezed their access to the interbank
financing market. The country’s banks borrowed 41 billion euros
($59 billion) from the ECB in February, 0.2 percent more than in
January, marking a third consecutive increase.  Portugal is aiming for a package that may be worth as much
as 75 billion euros, two European officials with knowledge of
the situation said. The country faces bond redemptions in April
and June that total 9 billion euros.  Socrates, Coehlo  The Portuguese two-year government bond yield last week
rose above the rate on the nation’s 10-year debt for the first
time since 2006.  Officials may start hammering out the details of a rescue
package at a meeting of EU finance ministers that starts
tomorrow in Godollo, near Budapest.  European Central Bank 
President  Jean-Claude Trichet , whose Governing Council may vote
today for the euro region’s first interest-rate increase since
2008, will also attend.  Socrates, who leads the Socialist Party, didn’t give
details on the kind of package that Portugal needs. Social
Democratic Party Leader  Pedro Passos Coelho  said he will support
the aid request. The  International Monetary Fund  said it stands
ready to assist Portugal if needed. The European Commission said
the Portuguese aid request will be dealt with “in the swiftest
possible manner.”  Shift of Focus  “On banks, we believe that this should shift the focus
from liquidity to earnings and capital, as the bailout package
will likely include liquidity support to banks,”  Banco BPI SA (BPI) 
analysts said today in a research note. The analysts said stocks
related to public works,  consumer spending  and companies with a
predominantly domestic business may be “under pressure.”  “We believe the bailout will imply additional austerity
measures, which will contribute negatively to disposable income
and consequently to private consumption,” the Banco BPI
analysts said.  The aid request came after Moody’s cut Portugal’s credit
rating on April 5 one step to Baa1. That followed Standard &
Poor’s trimming the country’s creditworthiness on March 29 for
the second time in less than a week to BBB-, one level above
junk status.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joao Lima in Lisbon at 
 jlima1@bloomberg.net .
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net  