-- 
Pound Gains Versus Euro as BOE Holds Key Rate Steady, Portugal Seeks Aid

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-07T15:37:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/pound-trades-near-2-week-high-versus-dollar-before-interest-rate-decision.html
The pound rose against the euro as
the  Bank of England  kept its main interest rate at a record low
and  Portugal ’s request for financial assistance dented demand
for the 17-nation currency.  Sterling fell against the dollar for the first day in five,
staying within a cent of a two-week high. The decision to leave
the U.K. key rate at 0.5 percent was predicted by all 57
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The  European Central Bank 
increased its main rate by 25 basis points today, as predicted
by economists in a Bloomberg survey. Portugal’s Prime Minister
 Jose Socrates  said late yesterday that the nation had no choice
but to seek financial aid.  “The pound’s direction from here will be data dependent,”
said  Marcus Hettinger , a foreign-exchange strategist at Credit
Suisse Group AG in Zurich. “It’s clear the Bank of England will
raise rates. It’s a matter of timing.”  The British currency strengthened 0.2 percent to 87.59
pence per euro as of 4:36 p.m. in London, posting its third gain
of the past four days. Sterling was 0.2 percent weaker at
$1.6307, after climbing yesterday to $1.6302, the strongest
level since March 23.  Sterling has strengthened 0.8 percent against the euro in
the past five days as reports added to evidence the economy is
recovering from a fourth-quarter contraction, stoking
speculation the Bank of England will also start raising  interest
rates  this year. At 4.4 percent in February, the U.K. inflation
rate is more than twice the bank’s 2 percent target.  House Prices  U.K. home prices rose 0.1 percent in March, after dropping
0.9 percent in the prior month, Lloyds Banking Group Plc’s
Halifax unit said yesterday. Markit Economics Ltd. and the
 Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply  said a day earlier
that service industries expanded at a faster pace in March.  Investors priced in a 25 basis-point rise in the central
 bank rate  by July, according to forward rates on the sterling
overnight interbank average, or Sonia, compiled by Tullett
Prebon Plc. They have priced in a second increase by November.  “Sterling should do okay from here” depending on economic
data, said  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-exchange strategy
at Royal Bank of Canada in London.  The 10-year gilt yield was two basis points lower at 3.75
percent, after increasing earlier to 3.80 percent, the most
since Feb. 21. The two-year yield fell three basis points to
1.37 percent.  Inflation Expectations  “The Bank continues to believe that much of the recent
rise in the level of the  consumer price index  is due to external
factors and is not domestically generated,” John McNeill,
Edinburgh-based head of international rates at Aegon Asset
Management, said in an e-mailed statement.  Investors increased their inflation expectations for a
seventh day, bond trading showed.  The 10-year breakeven rate, derived from the difference
between nominal and index-linked bonds, increased one basis
point to 3.30 percentage points. The rate, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the
securities, has climbed from a 2011 low of 3.06 percentage
points on Jan. 4.  Gilts have lost 0.4 percent since the end of March,
extending their decline this year to 1.2 percent, according to
indexes developed by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. German
securities have lost 2.6 percent since Dec. 31 while Treasuries
dropped 0.5 percent, according to the indexes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in  London  at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 