-- 
Quake Gaffe Fails to Halt Ishihara's Bid for Fourth Term as Tokyo Governor

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-04-08T03:41:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/quake-gaffe-fails-to-halt-ishihara-s-bid-for-fourth-term-as-tokyo-governor.html
Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara’s
claim that last month’s earthquake and tsunami were “divine
punishment” sparked public outrage. It’s unlikely to prevent
him winning a fourth term in elections this weekend.  Ishihara, who polls predict will win the April 10 contest
to lead Japan’s richest and biggest city, apologized for his
“deeply wounding” words. As the crisis deepened with the
damage to a nuclear power plant, he sought to head off concerns
over radiation levels in Tokyo’s water by drinking it in front
of television cameras.  “He has the advantage of already being in office,” said
 Yasunori Sone , a political science professor at  Keio University 
in Tokyo. “And he projects an image of stability in handling
this crisis more than the other candidates can.”  The Tokyo contest is the most prominent of this month’s
regional elections that may influence whether Prime Minister
 Naoto Kan ’s  Democratic Party of Japan  and the main opposition
 Liberal Democratic Party  form a coalition to oversee recovery
from the nation’s worst postwar disaster. Both parties are
waiting to analyze the outcome of races in which analysts say
incumbents have an edge as the nation focuses on the crisis.  Ishihara, 78, is favored to defeat Miki Watanabe, founder
of restaurant chain Watami Co., and former Miyazaki prefectural
governor Hideo Higashikokubaru, the Asahi newspaper said on
April 5. Three-fourths of voters approve of Ishihara, a former
LDP member and now independent, the paper said. The Asahi
surveyed 1,592 voters and provided no margin of error.  ‘Going to Win’  “Ishihara’s going to win without any difficulty,” said
 Koichi Nakano , a political science professor at  Sophia
University . “Getting these elections over with will remove an
obstacle on the national agenda and facilitate intra-party
discussions on the fate of the country.”  More than 27,000 people are dead or missing from the
catastrophe. Ishihara’s comment that it was “divine
punishment” for the “egoism” of Japanese society is the
latest in a series of controversial statements that have studded
his four-decade political career.  In a 1990 interview with Playboy magazine, he denied that
Japan massacred Chinese civilians in Nanjing in 1937, provoking
an outcry in China, which says more than 300,000 people were
slaughtered. He co-authored the 1989 best-seller, “The Japan
That Can Say No,” which argued against dependence on the U.S.
He has also advocated “tearing up” Japan’s pacifist
 constitution  in response to  China ’s growing economic and
military influence.  ‘Good Sense’  “Ishihara has a good sense of people’s psyche,” said
Tsuneo Watanabe, a senior fellow at the Tokyo Foundation. “He’s
decisive when it comes to  crisis management  because he doesn’t
care about making noise.”  Ishihara criticized Tokyo Electric Power Co., owner of the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi atomic power plant, calling their
response to the crisis “slow.” When radiation was discovered
in Tokyo water, he ordered the distribution of 240,000 bottles
of water to 80,000 families.  At the age of 23, Ishihara wrote a novel that won Japan’s
most prestigious literary prize, then wrote the film version. He
also covered the  Vietnam War  as a reporter, raced yachts and
toured  South America  by motorcycle.  He was first elected to parliament in 1968 and served in
two different LDP Cabinets. Ishihara is backed by his old party
and his son Nobuteru is an LDP lawmaker. The DPJ isn’t fielding
a candidate in the Tokyo race. Twelve prefectures hold races for
governor on April 10, and others will take place on April 24.  Spending Cuts  After inheriting a 106.8-billion-yen ($1.3 billion) deficit
upon taking office in 1999, he cut spending. Tokyo posted a
surplus of 600 million yen in the fiscal year ended March 31,
2010.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the city’s long-term credit rating
in January after lowering  Japan ’s debt rating. The national debt
is about twice gross domestic product.  Tokyo has a population of more than 13 million and a $1.1
trillion economy that is bigger than  Australia ’s. It accounts
for almost a fifth of Japan’s economy.  Campaigning has been quieter than usual, with fewer trucks
driving around blaring candidates’ names from loudspeakers.
Turnout will “be very low” as voters are pre-occupied with the
crisis, Sone said. Races in quake-hit areas such as Iwate
prefecture have been postponed.  Almost two-thirds of voters want Kan to bring the LDP into
government, according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll published
April 4. The paper surveyed 1,036 people between April 1 and 3,
and provided no margin of error.  ‘Cautious’  Kan has said he will compile a spending package this month
to aid in relief and reconstruction, and the opposition has
pledged cooperation in the efforts. LDP leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki ,
who on March 19 rejected an offer to join Kan’s Cabinet,
yesterday said his party was “cautious” about joining a
coalition government.  “I want Ishihara to serve one more term,” said Hideshi
Nakata, 45, a temporary worker at a food company in the capital.
“Tokyo needs to stand firm as the brain and heart of Japan as
he has said.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  