-- 
Biggest Japan Aftershock Since March 11 Kills Two, Cuts Power to Millions

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   M i c h i o   N a k a y a m a
-- 
2011-04-08T06:56:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/quake-of-7-4-strength-rattles-japan-no-reported-damage-at-nuclear-plants.html
Japan ’s biggest aftershock since the
day of the March 11 earthquake left two dead and millions
without power in the areas hit hardest by last month’s tsunami.  The magnitude-7.1 temblor struck at 11:32 p.m. local time
yesterday near the epicenter of last month’s quake, the  U.S.
Geological Survey  reported on its website. About 1.9 million
households, mostly in Miyagi and Iwate prefectures, remain
without electricity as of 1 p.m. today, said Tohoku Electric
Power Co., the main supplier to northern Japan.  “Magnitude-7 level aftershocks may continue to occur even
as the frequency of aftershocks will likely fall,” said
Yoshihiro Hiramatsu, an associate professor specializing in
seismology at Kanazawa University. “Aftershocks will continue
for a year or so.”  The aftershock hindered efforts by  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.
to prevent hydrogen explosions at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear
power plant 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo. After an
evacuation of 15 workers, engineers returned to the plant to
pump nitrogen into the No. 1 reactor.  No unusual conditions were observed at the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear station, according to statements by Tokyo Electric
and Japan’s Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency. There have
been no indications of changes in radiation levels or damage at
the plant, Tokyo Electric spokesman Takashi Kurita said today.  Shares Rise  Shares of Tepco, as the company is called, rose 24 percent
to 420 yen at the 3 p.m. Tokyo close, its fourth gain in 20
days. The stock has slumped more than 80 percent since the quake
on March 11.  “Indications of new leakage or a change in radiation
levels will be the only way they’ll tell if there’s further
damage,” Murray Jennix, a nuclear engineer who specialized in
radioactive containment leaks and teaches at  San Diego State
University , said in a telephone interview. “You’ve got cracks
that could have been made bigger.”  Tokyo Electric injected 800 cubic meters of nitrogen into
the No. 1 reactor by 7 a.m. Japan time today, Kurita told
reporters at a briefing. The process of feeding nitrogen, the
most prevalent inert gas in the atmosphere, into the reactor may
take six days, spokesman Yoshinori Mori said yesterday.  “They are manually injecting nitrogen through a very
narrow pipe,” Tadashi Narabayashi, a professor of nuclear
engineering at  Hokkaido University  in northern Japan, said by
phone yesterday. “High radiation levels in the building are
also making it difficult as workers have to keep rotating.”  Tepco is still using emergency pumps to cool the reactors
and pools holding spent fuel, four weeks after the initial
disaster. Three blasts damaged reactor buildings and hurled
radiation into the air last month.  Tohoku Electric  Tohoku Electric said no radioactive water leaked from its
Onagawa nuclear station even after being spilt from spent fuel
pools and a pumping room. About 11 liters (3 gallons) of
radioactive water spilt on the floor because of shaking from the
quake, according to the company.  Cooling systems at Onagawa, which was safely shut down
after the March 11 quake, were operating normally, he said. Two
of three  power lines  remain disabled to the station, he said.  The company also restored mains power at its Higashidori
nuclear plant and restarted three out of six units at thermal
plants by 2 p.m. today, the company said.  Power Lost  Japan Nuclear Fuel Ltd.’s power switching station at its
Rokkasho nuclear fuel plant in northern Japan started receiving
power this morning from an outside source, spokesman Yoshinori
Ochiai said by telephone. Cooling, containing, and other major
functions at the plant are working properly, he said.  East Japan Railway Co. (9020) , the nation’s largest rail operator,
suspended bullet train services on three of its five lines. The
rail company halted the Tohoku, Yamagata and Akita lines,
according to a release on its website.  There have been about 900 aftershocks since last month’s
temblor, which left more than 27,600 dead or missing and caused
an estimated 25 trillion yen ($294 billion) in damage.  Yesterday’s quake struck at a depth of about 49 kilometers,
the  U.S. Geological Survey  reported on its website. A tsunami
alert for a possible two-meter wave was canceled by Japan about
two hours after the warning was issued. There was a magnitude-
7.9 aftershock on March 11 about half an hour after the temblor
last month, according to the  USGS .  Yesterday’s quake was “tremendously smaller than the main
shock,” said Don Blakeman, a geophysicist in the U.S.  National
Earthquake Information Center  in Golden,  Colorado . “The main
shock caused about 80 times more ground movement.”  The main airport near Sendai in northern will reopen on
April 13 after being swamped by the tsunami, Transport Minister
Akihiro Ohata told reporters in Tokyo today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Michio Nakayama in Tokyo at 
 mnakayama4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Teo Chian Wei at 
 cwteo@bloomberg.net  