-- 
Real Estate IPOs May Be Limited by REIT Acquisitions, AvalonBay CEO Says

-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l   a n d   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-07T17:30:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/real-estate-ipos-may-be-limited-by-reit-acquisitions-avalonbay-ceo-says.html
Initial share sales by property
owners may be limited this year as publicly traded real estate
investment trusts acquire companies that planned to list stock,
said Bryce Blair, head of  AvalonBay Communities Inc. (AVB)   “We’ll see far fewer IPOs than people think,” Blair,
chairman and chief executive officer of Arlington, Virginia-
based AvalonBay, said today at a conference in  Manhattan . “It’s
going to be more private selling to existing public, than
private to public.”  REIT mergers and acquisitions are rising as companies seek
combinations to increase revenue and cut costs. About $42
billion in global REIT-related deals have been announced this
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. They include  AMB
Property Corp. (AMB) ’s pending purchase of  ProLogis (PLD)  to create the
world’s largest warehouse owner, valued at $16 billion when it
was announced in January.  Two REITs have issued shares to the public this year,
raising about $818 million, according to Bloomberg data. Summit
Hotel Properties Inc., a  Sioux Falls , South Dakota-based hotel
owner, sold 26 million shares in February, raising about $254
million. American Assets Trust Inc., a San Diego-based owner of
office and retail properties, raised $564 million in January
with a sale of 27.5 million shares.  STAG Industrial Inc., a Boston-based warehouse owner,
started its offering of 13.75 million shares yesterday, the
company said in a statement.  Mergers and acquisitions “will come more from the private
sector than the public sector,” David Neithercut, chief
executive officer of Chicago-based  Equity Residential (EQR) , the
largest publicly traded U.S. apartment owner, said at the
conference sponsored by  New York  University’s Schack Institute
of Real Estate.  Seven or eight real estate companies will go public in the
next year, said Mike Kirby, director of research at Green Street
Advisors, a  Newport Beach , California-based property research
company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net . 