-- 
Shorter-Term Treasuries Rise 1st Time in 3 Days on Shutdown, Bill Scarcity

-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-04-07T21:10:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/treasuries-advance-after-7-4-magnitude-earthquake-reported-to-strike-japan.html
Treasury notes due in seven years
and less rose for the first time in three days as a partial
government shutdown looms and the supply of the shortest-term
U.S. government securities dwindles.  Investors bought notes after rates on six-month bills fell
to a record low this week with the Treasury reducing issuance to
avoid exceeding a federal debt limit. Lawmakers are seeking to
reach a compromise on the budget and avert a shutdown. Notes
also rose after another earthquake in  Japan . Thirty-year bonds
fell ahead of next week’s sale of the securities.  “It’s a pricing in of the risk that the government
actually does end up being shut down for a certain period,”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “If they do shut down, it’s
a front-end bullish curve-steepening event. The long end is
priced in a supply concession.”  Two-year note yields decreased five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 0.78 percent at 5 p.m. in New York. It was
the lowest level since April 5. The price of the 0.75 percent
security due in March 2013 rose 3/32, or 94 cents per $1,000
face amount, to 99 30/32.  Thirty-year bond yields advanced two basis points to 4.62
percent. The yield on the benchmark 10-year note was little
changed at 3.55 percent.  Bill Scarcity  Six- and three-month bill rates have tumbled as the
Treasury cut to $5 billion from $200 billion the amount of
outstanding Supplementary Financing Program bills it sells on
behalf of the Fed in a program set up in 2008 to support the
financial system. The reduction was made for reasons including
the approach of the federal debt limit. The rates also fell amid
a change in bank deposit-insurance fees.  “The bills add support for the two-year,” said  Sean Murphy , Treasury Trader in New York at  Societe Generale , one of
20 primary dealers that trade Treasuries with the Fed. “As
bills outperform in the front end, you’ll see that leak into the
one-year and two-year spread. You’ll definitely get some sort of
impact there.”  Six-month bill rates touched 0.1119 percent after reaching
a record low 0.1099 percent on April 4. Three-month rates
declined to 0.0304 percent, matching levels reached on April 4
and 5, the lowest since January 2010.  The U.S. will sell $32 billion of 3-year notes, $21 billion
of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year bonds in three daily
auctions beginning April 12, the Treasury Department announced
today. The totals matched the results in a Bloomberg News survey
of 9 of the  Federal Reserve ’s 20 primary dealers.  Government Shutdown  The sales will proceed even if a deadlock in Congress shuts
down the government, an official told Bloomberg News on April 4.  Lawmakers struggled to reach a spending compromise to
avert a closure on April 8, when existing spending authority
expires. The House approved a stopgap spending bill to keep the
government open through next week, although President  Barack Obama  said he would veto it.  Yields on 10-year notes remain below the average of 5.22
percent over the last two decades even with the U.S. projected
to post a deficit in excess of $1 trillion for a third
consecutive year, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  The benchmark U.S. security averaged 5.25 percent in 1998,
when the administration of President  Bill Clinton  worked with a
 Republican Congress  to produce the first  budget surplus  since
1969. The 10-year note yield will rise to 4.2 percent by the
middle of next year, according to average estimate of 51
forecasters in a Bloomberg survey.  Earthquake Hits Japan  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 0.2 percent after
the magnitude-7.1 earthquake hit 215 miles (345 kilometers)
northeast of  Tokyo . Concern grew that Japan will be hindered in
its efforts to recover from the record quake on March 11.  “The market had sort of turned the page from the flight-
to-quality trade,” said  Kevin Flanagan , chief fixed-income
strategist in Purchase, New York for Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney. “The market was feeling a need to sell into any
strength rather than buy on dips. That was the atmosphere we had
been presented with.”  Ten-year yields rose earlier to the highest level in a
month, 3.57 percent, as the ECB raised its benchmark interest
rate a quarter-percentage point to 1.25 percent to combat
inflation. Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet subsequently said
policy makers didn’t necessarily decide it was the first of a
series of boosts, damping speculation  Europe ’s interest-rate
advantage over the U.S. would continued to widen.  U.S. Benchmark  The  Federal Open Market Committee  has held the benchmark
U.S. rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008.  “The FOMC is a ways off from tightening, although it’s
pressure for them to look at inflation,” said  Brian Edmonds ,
head of interest rates at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in  New York , one
of 20 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  The U.S. central bank isn’t expected to raise interest
rates until 2012, according to the weighted average in a
Bloomberg survey of 73 economists.  Crude rose above $110 a barrel for the first time since
September 2008 as a fire burned at  Libya ’s Sarir field,
bolstering concern that unrest in North Africa and the Middle
East will spread, curbing shipments.  The Fed bought $6.58 billion of Treasuries maturing from
April 2015 to September 2006 as part of its asset-purchase
program to spur economic growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  