-- 
Ten-Year Treasury Yields Reach One-Month High Before Jobs Data

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-07T10:52:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/treasury-yield-two-basis-points-from-one-month-high-before-jobless-claims.html
Ten-year Treasury yields reached a
one-month high before a report that economists said will show
initial claims for jobless insurance fell for a second week.  The yields have added eight basis points this week on
speculation the U.S. Federal Reserve may begin removing stimulus
from the economy this year. The  European Central Bank  will boost
its main rate by 25 basis points from a record low 1 percent
today to tame inflation, according to all 57 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg. The  Federal Open Market Committee  “is watching
carefully” for signs oil and commodity prices are affecting
U.S. prices, Cleveland Fed President  Sandra Pianalto  said today.  “Fundamentally, the  U.S. economy  is indeed picking up, as
seen in the data,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst
at WestLB AG in Dusseldorf. “If the ECB delivers a hike and
signals future rate rises, we will get an increase in bund
yields and this will weigh on Treasuries.”  Ten-year yields rose were little changed at 3.55 percent as
of 11:18 a.m. in London, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. It earlier reached 3.56 percent, the most since March 4.
The 3.625 percent note due in February 2021 rose 1/32, or 31
cents per $1,000 face amount, to 100 21/32. The yield has risen
from 3.45 percent at the start of the week.  Jobless Claims  The number of Americans applying for  unemployment insurance 
for the first time fell by 3,000 to 385,000 last week, the
lowest level since the end of February, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg before the Labor
Department report today.  Thirty-year bond yields rose to a four-week high. The yield
on the securities due in February 2041 was at 4.61 percent, the
highest since March 10, when it reached 4.62 percent.  The Fed “is watching carefully for any signs of an
unanticipated spillover from oil and other commodity prices into
underlying inflation measures,” Pianalto said today in  Rome .
“A key to preventing this spillover is to keep long-run
inflation expectations anchored.”  Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker is scheduled to speak
today in Roanoke, Virginia. On April 4, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers must watch inflation “extremely
closely.”  Treasury bears said an improving U.S. economy is sending
yields higher. Ten-year bond yields are forecast to rise to 3.92
percent by year-end, a Bloomberg survey shows. Thirty-year
yields will reach 4.94 percent, a separate survey shows.  Stimulus Debate  “I’m bearish” on U.S. debt, said  Yusuke Tanaka , senior
dealer in  Singapore  at Mitsubishi UFJ Trust & Banking Corp., a
unit of  Japan ’s largest bank. “The U.S. economy is improving
gradually.”  Fed policy makers at a meeting last month debated whether
to begin removing record stimulus in 2011, according to the
minutes of their March 15 meeting released two days ago.  The central bank is pursuing a plan to buy up to $600
billion in  U.S. debt  through June to spur growth. Policy makers
have kept the key interest rate at zero to 0.25 percent since
December 2008 to support the economic recovery.  Futures contracts showed a 71 percent chance of the Fed
raising its target for overnight bank lending by March of next
year, up from 64 percent odds a month ago.  ECB policy makers meeting today will announce their rate
decision at 1:45 p.m. in  Frankfurt . ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  will hold a press conference 45 minutes later, watched
by investors for signals on future moves.  Trichet Signal  “If Trichet is more risk averse with regard to inflation
this should weigh on the long end of the German bund curve and,
in turn, on the long end of the Treasury curve,” said  Kornelius Purps , an interest-rate strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich.
“The two-year yield will rise quite dramatically if Trichet
signals a rate hike in May or June and this will also spill over
into the Treasury market.”  The Fed Funds Target Rate will be increased to 0.50 percent
in the first quarter of next year, according to a Bloomberg
survey of banks and securities companies with the most recent
forecasts given the heaviest weightings.  The difference in yield between five-year notes and
inflation-indexed debt, a gauge of trader expectations for
inflation over the life of the securities, known as the break-
even rate, was at 2.40 percent. It widened to 2.41 percentage
points yesterday, the most since July 2008. The 10-year break-
even rate was 2.58 percentage points after reaching 2.60 on
April 5, also the widest since July 2008.  Fidelity Recommendation  Bond investors should favor Treasury Inflation Protected
Securities, high-yield debt and emerging-market securities as
the U.S. economy improves, according to  Fidelity Investments .  “Inflationary expectations could rise to uncomfortable
levels,” Jurrien Timmer, co-manager of the  Fidelity Dynamic
Strategies Fund (FDYSX) , wrote in a report yesterday on the company’s
 website . “Treasury Inflation Protected Securities could
continue to do well, especially in contrast to regular
Treasuries,” according to Fidelity, the Boston-based fund
company that oversees $1.6 trillion.  The Treasury is scheduled to announce today the sizes of
next week’s auctions.  Sales will consist of $32 billion of three-year notes, $21
billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year bonds in
three auctions beginning April 12, according to a Bloomberg
survey of nine bond-trading companies. The sales will proceed
even if a deadlock in Congress shuts the government, according
to a Treasury official and dealers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 