-- 
Clean-Energy Investment Is Placed at Risk as UN Climate Negotiations Stall

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-04-07T20:08:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/renewable-energy-investments-at-risk-as-un-climate-negotiations-stall.html
Clean energy investment that totaled
$243 billion last year is at risk of slowing as talks on curbing
greenhouse gas emissions bog down, said the United Nations
official in charge of promoting industrial development.  Kandeh Yumkella, director general of the UN Industrial
Development Organization, said $40 billion a year is needed
through 2030 to bring basic energy to 3 billion people, and part
of those funds are linked to the outcome of 192-nation
negotiations on global warming that hit a roadblock in Bangkok
this week.  The talks are aiming to unlock $100 billion a year in aid
for developing nations to cope with rising sea levels and more
volatile weather, which scientists say are caused by damage to
the atmosphere from burning fossil fuels.  “We want to keep that pressure up because we have a
feeling that pledges can be made but the cash doesn’t move,”
Yumkella said in an interview at a UN conference in New York
today. “If there’s a continued slowdown in investment in clean
energy it takes longer to build them up again.”  In the strongest criticism yet of the UN talks,  Todd Stern ,
the lead U.S. climate negotiator, said yesterday that a binding
treaty is “unnecessary” and may not be “doable.” His remarks
limit the chances of a breakthrough this year and underscore the
rift between rich nations and developing ones including China,
India and Brazil.  Cancun Agreements  At the UN talks in Cancun four months ago, countries agreed
to put forward national emissions commitments, share technology
for clean energy systems and establish a climate fund to help
poorer nations adapt to rising sea levels and more intense
storms. This week in Bangkok, envoys argued about the agenda for
this year’s round of meetings that will culminate in December in
Durban, South Africa. The Bangkok talks finish tomorrow.  “We have to change our mindset because it’s increasingly
clear we’re not waiting now for a breakthrough moment in Durban
or any summit in the near future,”  Abyd Karmali , global head of
carbon markets at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in an
interview. “Right now there is a huge financing gap, and one
needs to have some new policies and measures to stimulate these
technologies in different countries.”  Still Profitable  Not everyone is pessimistic. Wind and solar investments
could keep rising as long as national and local governments put
in place incentives that make them profitable, said  James Cameron , vice-chairman of Climate Change Capital Ltd., which
invests in emission-reduction projects.  “You shouldn’t care too much if the agreement comes from
the global level or the national level,” Cameron said in an
interview with  Kathleen Hays  at WBBR radio. “What could happen
is that the failure to reach a global agreement leads to a more
robust patchwork of incentives on the national level.”  With President  Barack Obama  facing re-election next year
and some of his Republican opponents questioning the science
underpinning the climate talks, the government hasn’t yet shown
willingness to set binding targets for reducing greenhouse gas
emissions. Stern said the goal of agreeing to a treaty was
always out of reach.  “A lot of what was bound up in the very high expectations
at the start of this whole process was unrealistic,” Stern said
in an interview last night after speaking at a Bloomberg New
Energy Finance conference in New York. “I don’t think it’s
necessary that there be internationally binding emission caps as
long as you’ve got national laws and regulations. What I am
saying is it’s not doable.”  UN Process  Stern suggested the U.S. may circumvent the UN process
saying it’s “not the sole platform” for climate protection, a
potential blow to sustainable-energy funding.  Investment in clean energy, including wind, solar and
biofuels, totaled $243 billion last year, according to New
Energy Finance.  That may be a fraction of the amount needed to cap levels
of carbon dioxide, the main gas blamed for global warming, said
 Mark Fulton , head of climate change research at Deutsche Asset
Management. He expects investment to increase gradually as the
cost of manufacturing wind turbines and solar cells drops.  “We need $500 billion a year to reach the climate targets
people are talking about,” Fulton said in an interview with
WBBR. “It would be great to see a global deal. That looks a
long way off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  