-- 
Trichet Says Interest-Rate Increase by ECB Is ‘Warranted’

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-04-07T13:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/trichet-says-increase-warranted-to-keep-expectations-anchored.html
European Central Bank President
Jean-Claude Trichet comments on  monetary policy  and the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  He made the remarks at a press conference in  Frankfurt 
today after the ECB raised its benchmark interest rate to 1.25
percent from a record low of 1 percent.  On today’s decision:  “Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided to increase the key ECB interest rate
by 25 basis points after leaving them unchanged for 2 years at
historically low levels.  The adjustment of the current very accommodative policy
stance is warranted.  It is essential that price developments do not give rise to
broad based inflationary development over the medium term.  The adjustment of the current very accommodative stance
seems warranted” due to heightened inflation risks.  The rate increase decision will help to keep “inflation
expectations in the euro area firmly anchored.”  We’ll ensure to “keep inflation rates in line with our
goal.”  “ Interest rates  across entire maturity spectrum remain
low. Recent economic data confirm that the underlying momentum
of economic activity in the euro area remains positive; however,
uncertainty remains elevated.”  Monetary policy remains “accommodative” and “continues
to support the economic recovery.”  “We’ll continue to monitor very closely all developments
with respect to price stability.”  “Anchoring interest rates expectations” is good for the
economy, good for confidence.  On outlook for ECB rates:  The decision “was taken unanimously by the governing
council. It a decision that is taken to permit us to deliver in
future, as in the past, price stability in medium term.  We did not decide that it was the first of a series of
interest rate increases and we will continue” to take the
“appropriate decisions to ensure  price stability .”  “You know from our own doctrine, we always do all that is
necessary to deliver price stability in line with our definition
in the medium term. We did not decide it was the first in a
series.”  On widening the corridor:  The Governing Council discussed this and “appreciated the
pros and cons of maintaining the 150 basis points between the
top and the bottom, or whether to go back to 200, and we
considered that it was appropriate at this stage to maintain
this level. There are various dimensions for this appreciation
and we will see when the time comes if we can change the
corridor.”  On inflation pressure:  “The increased inflation rates largely reflect a rise in
commodity prices. Inflation expectations must be firmly anchored
in line with the ECB’s aim. Inflation risks remain on the
upside.”  Risks “relate to a stronger than expected rises in prices,
in the context of a stronger than expected economic recovery.”  On second-round effects:  “We did not until now see unanchoring of inflation
expectations. It is of extreme importance that we maintained the
anchoring of inflation expectations through the three years
past, which have been very demanding. We will do what is
necessary to deliver” price stability.  “We are clearly signalling that we are extremely alert in
this respect. We will not tolerate second round effects. That in
the medium term would mean a higher level of inflation. Avoiding
second round effects is essential.”  We have “a price shock from oil and commodities. It’s our
clear message that we don’t accept second-round effects.”.  “We do what we have to do even if it’s difficult.”  On the timing of today’s rate increase:  “The problem is to do our job, to fulfil our mandate. We
take the decisions which are appropriate. We had never the
sentiment to be a follower, and never to be a leader.”  “It’s in the interest of all members and partners of the
single currency that we retain maximum credibility for the
anchoring of inflation expectations. It’s good that we have
anchored inflation expectations.  All countries without exception have a direct interest that
we’re faithful with our mandate.”  On impact of Japan earthquake:  “I also note en passant, when we ourselves are calling for
maximum soundness of fiscal policies, we have to take into
account the financial crisis, but also natural crises. The
ultimate protection comes from public finances, so the
credibility of public finances is absolutely essential.”  “We could see the impact on the global PMI, the immediate
impact. It has an immediate impact which is big, which we
observed at the time of Kobe” and then “we saw the profile
going up again. You have to reconstruct, you have to invest
again. the devastation was abominable.”  On China, other central bank:  “We have very close relationship with the people’s bank of
china, very close relationship ship with Governor Zhou. Certain
banks are not making the same decisions, they’re not in the same
situation. But you have a unity of purpose and that is the
anchoring of inflation expectations.”  On budget deficits in some euro nations:  “We have a number of countries which have to correct their
situation, particularly, on the fiscal side.  Plans are in place in some countries and they have in our
view to apply the plan. We will have to apply the plan, for all
countries, our constant recommendation is be ahead of the
curve.”  On German economy:  “ Germany  is a big economy, the biggest in the
constellation of countries in the euro area.  We take our decisions taking into account the overall GDP
of the euro area. Germany is now growing much more actively”
than the euro area. “That’s good.  Now we see the result of this hard work. It’s good for
Germany, it’s good for euro area.”  On banks:  “We have a very clear message for the banks. It’s a
message which has been sent very often and today. It’s essential
to turn to the market, to strengthen balance sheets.”  On Ireland’s banks:  “We have welcomed the decision of the government to
recapitalize its banks.  It seems to be that the market has understood it was an
important decision.”  On  Spain ’s fiscal measures:  “All government have to be ahead of the curve. Spain did a
lot of things in the past that we approved and still has things
to do. There are a number of measures in the pipe, particularly
structural reforms.  These reforms are anticipated by the observers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  