-- 
Rothschild Executives Sue UBS in London After Losing Money on Tax Shelter

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-07T15:28:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/rothschild-dealmakers-sue-ubs-wealth-management-over-failed-tax-shelter.html
Three NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd.
executives sued  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest bank, in  London 
for advising them to take part in a personal tax shelter that
lost them money.  Anthony Alt, deputy chairman of the firm, Robert Leitao,
the firm’s head of U.K. global financial advisory and Nigel Higgins, its co-head of global  investment banking , are seeking a
total of 1.25 million pounds ($2 million) from UBS and ProAct
Financial Ltd. over the advice, dating back to 2004.  The  three London bankers , on UBS and ProAct’s suggestion,
invested in an unregulated collective investment called Film
Development Partnership IV LLP so they could claim the fund’s
losses against their income, according to the lawsuit, which was
filed in February and became public this week. UBS allegedly
didn’t warn the men of the risks of buying into the fund, which
invested in film financing, distribution and development.  The men were told the “highly aggressive tax avoidance
mechanism” was “all but certain to produce, by reason of the
tax relief which would result, a return in excess of the
investment,” according to the suit. “Such representation was
false.”  After an inquiry, the U.K. tax department, Her Majesty’s
Revenue & Customs, rejected the fund’s tax return which claimed
partnership losses. The bankers were then unable to claim any of
the losses on their personal returns, according to the suit.  Vigorous Defense  “We are aware of the proceedings, and we will vigorously
defend ourselves,” UBS spokesman Oliver Gadney said in an e-
mailed statement.  A woman who answered the phone at West Midlands, England-
based advisory firm ProAct said its chairman, Paul Dunbar,
wasn’t available to comment. None of the three plaintiffs
responded to phone messages. A spokeswoman for Rothschild said
the matter is personal.  The U.S.  Justice Department  last year dropped a criminal
case against UBS, after the Zurich-based bank admitted it helped
about 17,000 Americans evade taxes. UBS paid $780 million and
handed over account data to resolve the matter.  In the London case, the executives were told the risks
related to “the prospects of an investment return, rather than
an entitlement to tax relief and also in relation to possible
future legislative change regarding the regulation of film
schemes,” according to the suit. “They were not warned that
there was a very high risk attached to the prospects of the
proffered tax relief.”  ‘Silent Cry’  Film Development Partnership IV was sponsored by Little
Wing Films Ltd., the lawsuit said. Little Wing’s films include
“9 Dead Gay Guys,” “Tabloid,” and “Silent Cry,” according
to the  Internet Movie Database .  Little Wing was involved in a similar lawsuit filed in
2007, when around 75 British bankers and executives sued
accounting firm  Baker Tilly  over allegedly negligent advice that
they could cut their tax bills by investing in movies.  Guy Hands , the chairman of Terra Firma Capital Partners Ltd.,
claimed to have lost almost 12 million pounds when the plan
turned out to be flawed. The case settled in 2008, Accountancy
Age  reported .  Tax breaks known as Section 48 and Section 42, introduced
in the 1990s, allowed individuals to offset movie investments
against their earnings, lowering or deferring the amount of
income tax due in a given year.  The rules were revised in 2006 “so that the relief goes
where it was always intended to go -- to those who produce films
and employ talent,” HMRC spokesman Jan Marszewski said. “The
loopholes which allowed the tax relief to be abused with no
benefit to the  film industry  have been closed. If we find
evidence of abuse we will take steps to put things right.”  The case is Robert Mark Leitao & ors v. ProAct Financial
Ltd. & ors, case no. 10-4193,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s
Bench Division (London).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 