-- 
Royal Bank of Canada Said to Seek Buyers for U.S. Bank

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-07T20:45:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/royal-bank-of-canada-said-to-seek-buyers-for-u-s-bank-1-.html
Royal Bank of Canada (RY) , the country’s
largest lender, is seeking buyers for its money-losing consumer
bank in the U.S., said three people with knowledge of the talks.  Royal Bank is getting advice from  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  on
the potential sale of its RBC Bank unit, said the people, who
spoke on condition of anonymity because the talks are private.
Potential buyers may include U.S. Bancorp and  PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. (PNC) , according to Pri de Silva, an analyst at
CreditSights Inc.  “For the last few years, we’ve been very disappointed with
their U.S. results,” said Tony Demarin, chief investment
officer of BCV Asset Management in Winnipeg, which manages C$290
million ($302 million), including Royal Bank shares. In the U.S.
“you need to have a very strong footprint and critical mass of
branches. I just don’t think the Royal Bank ever got to that.”  The Canadian lender is retreating from U.S. consumer
lending after investing about $4.6 billion in the last decade to
buy banks in southeastern states including  North Carolina ,
Florida and Alabama. Toronto-based Royal Bank is pulling out as
competitors  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  and  Bank of Montreal (BMO)  expand by
acquiring troubled U.S. lenders in Florida and  Wisconsin .  Royal Bank spokeswoman Katherine Gay declined to comment on
a potential sale of RBC Bank and said the bank remains committed
to its U.S. growth strategy.  Royal Bank, the best-performing Canadian bank stock this
year, rose 1 cent to C$60.29 at 4:15 p.m. on the Toronto Stock
Exchange. The shares have climbed 15 percent in 2011.  Smallest U.S. Operations  The international-banking unit, which includes Raleigh,
North Carolina-based RBC Bank, had 10 consecutive quarterly
losses before returning to profitability in the first quarter of
2011, according to the bank’s financial statements. The U.S.
consumer bank lost money in the first quarter, said Chief
Executive Officer Gordon Nixon on March 3. RBC Bank is the
smallest of Royal Bank’s U.S. operations, which also include
asset management and the RBC Capital Markets investment bank.  “If it’s not going to be a focus, they’re better off to be
sellers,” said Keith McLean, who oversees C$150 million as a
money manager at GMP Investment Management in Toronto.  RBC Bank had $4 billion of equity capital and $27.6 billion
of assets as of Dec. 31, according to data on the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp.’s website.  The largest U.S. banks are unlikely interested in bidding
on RBC Bank, CreditSight’s de Silva said in an interview.  Potential Bidders  Bank of America Corp.,  Wells Fargo & Co ., JPMorgan and
Citigroup Inc. face constraints related to the deposit market
share or “too big to fail” concerns, de Silva said. U.S.
Bancorp, PNC or  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  may be interested, he said.  Banks such as Fifth Third Bancorp and SunTrust Banks Inc.
probably aren’t looking to expand through acquisitions, given
their recent repurchase of preferred stock held by the U.S.
Treasury Department under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, de
Silva said.  The Canadian lender has spent two years reorganizing RBC
Bank, which started after the lender took a C$1 billion ($1
billion) writedown on the U.S. business in 2009. RBC Bank
suffered losses due to impaired loans from homebuilders and
other business clients during the U.S. subprime meltdown and
financial crisis.  During the restructuring, Royal Bank cut more than 1,000
jobs, replaced management, reduced ties to real estate and pared
commercial lending to restore profit at the bank, which has more
than 420 branches.  ‘On the Table’  Nixon said in a March 2010 interview that “everything is
on the table” in weighing options for its U.S. consumer bank,
including a sale, merger or takeovers to revive the business.
Nixon said during a Jan. 11 banking conference this year in
Toronto that he’s unsure whether Royal Bank would be a buyer or
seller of U.S. banking assets.  “In the short-term, our priority is to get the U.S. bank
performing at a more normalized level,” Nixon said.  Royal Bank expanded in the U.S. with its 2001 takeover of
Centura Banks, which was renamed RBC Bank. Royal Bank’s last
U.S. retail bank acquisition was the $1.6 billion takeover of
 Alabama  National BanCorporation in February 2008.  A sale of Royal Bank’s U.S. consumer bank would follow
divestitures of other U.S. businesses. Royal Bank exited its
U.S. life and health insurance business in October when it sold
Liberty Life Insurance for $628.1 million. The bank reported a
C$116 million loss on that sale.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ; Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
5733 or  dalexander3@bloomberg.net 
Cristina Alesci at in New York or
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  