-- 
Russian Gas Beckons for Germany as Merkel Turns From Nuclear

-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 
2011-04-07T22:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/russian-gas-beckons-for-germany-as-merkel-turns-from-nuclear.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s shift
away from nuclear power is set to make  Germany  more reliant on
Russian gas and Merkel more dependent on her predecessor,
Gerhard Schroeder.  Merkel’s pledge to speed the exit from atomic power after
the crisis in Japan is helping push natural-gas prices higher as
Germany scrambles to identify energy alternatives. Gas supplied
by OAO Gazprom may be the easiest way for her to meet Germany’s
climate goals and keep Europe’s largest economy running.  As workers battle a meltdown at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant, Merkel is leading a global push to revisit nuclear
energy, which provides about a quarter of the power generated in
Germany. Increasing imports of gas from  Russia , which holds the
world’s biggest reserves, would deepen ties to the east yet risk
raising tension with the U.S.  Russia is “re-emerging as this stable energy supplier for
 Europe ,” Will Pearson, a London-based energy analyst at Eurasia
Group, said in an interview. “There’s so much energy capacity
there and right now it looks like a safer alternative” to
options such as North Africa.  Likely winners include the Nord Stream AG Baltic Sea gas
pipeline chaired by Schroeder, a 7.4 billion-euro ($10.6
billion) project that underscores Europe’s dependence on Russia
as an energy supplier and the growing global clout of emerging
economies that also include  China , India and  Brazil . The so-
called BRIC nations are due to discuss commodities when they
meet on April 14 in Sanya, China.  Pipeline Rivals  Also set for a boost is the Nabucco project, a pipeline
that’s still on the drawing board, to channel Caspian gas to
Europe. It’s championed by former Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer, a one-time leader of Germany’s anti-nuclear Greens
party and Schroeder’s partner in government from 1998 until
Merkel defeated their coalition in 2005.  Merkel is scheduled to meet with Germany’s 16 state prime
ministers on April 15 to discuss the future energy mix after
last month calling a 90-day moratorium on a  planned extension  of
the lifespan of Germany’s 17 atomic plants and ordering the
seven oldest reactors idled pending industry wide safety checks.  Pressured by a regional election loss amid a surge in
support for the Greens, Merkel, a trained physicist and former
advocate of atomic power, said on March 28 that her “view on
nuclear energy has changed.”  ‘Nuclear Witch-Hunt’  The result is “a nuclear witch-hunt” that may result in
more than seven reactor closures, said Lueder Schumacher, an
analyst at UniCredit SpA in  London . “So far the public debate
in Germany has focused on the desire to exit nuclear energy with
little thought being spared as to what is actually going to
replace it.”  German power for next year has risen about 10 percent since
Merkel’s announcement, reaching its highest price in more than
19 months on April 4, according to broker data compiled by
Bloomberg. Gas for delivery in 2013 cost 7 percent more at the
Dutch-based Endex TTF gas exchange yesterday.  Europe’s most populous nation, Germany imports 85 percent
of its natural gas and is already more reliant on Russia to meet
its needs than the European Union as a whole. Germany imports
about a third of its gas from Russia, compared with about a
quarter for the EU.  Germany wants Russia to be “a major supplier of natural
resources,” Merkel said on Nov. 26 during a visit by Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin . “Europe and Russia are strategic
partners whose potential for cooperation is far from
exhausted.”  Merkel, who speaks fluent Russian, is already elevating
Russia as a commercial and diplomatic partner, promoting exports
there by German companies such as train maker  Siemens AG. (SIE)   ‘Full Steam Ahead’  “The German attitude seems to be full steam ahead” with
Russia, Charles Kupchan, a senior fellow at the  Council on
Foreign Relations , said by phone from  Washington . Merkel is
“very pragmatic, very realist, and that’s where western Europe
is headed right now in terms of relations with Russia.”  For their part, the Russians are keen to oblige. Gazprom
said that “German partners can increase gas purchases” under
the terms of current contracts, according to an e-mailed
response to questions on March 31.  “I am glad that pragmatic voices in the European Union
point to the high significance of gas as an energy source,”
Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko told reporters in Moscow two days
ago. “The latest events which we have been witnessing lately
show that stable and safe supplies of gas from Russia on the
long-term basis is key to Europe’s energy security.”  ‘Frequent Power Outages’  German utilities have so far borne the brunt of Merkel’s
nuclear reversal, caught between powering the world’s No. 2
exporter and EU emissions-reduction goals.  RWE AG (RWE)  filed a lawsuit on April 1 challenging the shutdown
of its Biblis A nuclear plant by the state of Hesse as part of
the government-imposed moratorium. Chief Executive Officer
Juergen Grossmann warned two days later of “more frequent power
outages, say two, three days a year.”  “I fear that some of the industrial foundation of our
country will be lost,” Grossmann said in a Deutschlandfunk
radio interview.  E.ON AG (EOAN)  and RWE, the two biggest utilities, are among the
worst performers this year on the 30-member benchmark  DAX index (DAX) ,
declining 2.7 percent and 5.9 percent as of yesterday.  The Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index of solar company
shares is up about 11 percent since March 11, when the
earthquake and tsunami in Japan knocked out cooling systems at
the Fukushima plant. Munich-based  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , which makes
polysilicon used in solar cells, has gained more than 23 percent
in that time.  CO2 Emissions  While Merkel has said she wants to speed the transition to
energy from the wind and sun, traditional power sources are
still needed to counteract the variable nature of renewables,
said Matthias Heck, a Macquarie Research analyst.  “Longer term there’ll likely be a move to natural gas
because it has lower CO2 emissions than coal and the government
will want to keep  carbon emissions  down,” Heck said by phone
from  Frankfurt .  Rising prices for the permits that companies buy for the
right to emit carbon rose may spur the shift. EU carbon permits
rose to their highest price in almost three weeks on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange in London on April 4.  Growing gas demand also plays into the hands of Schroeder
and Fischer, who crafted Germany’s original pullout from nuclear
power by about 2022 when in coalition government in 2002.  Schroeder, who was hired to head  Nord Stream  by Russia’s
gas monopoly Gazprom months after leaving office in 2005, lost
little time in claiming that Merkel’s new-found skepticism about
nuclear power vindicated him.  ‘Social Progress’  “It’s welcome social progress when others are capable of
recognizing that we need to exit nuclear energy as quickly as
possible,” he told the Die Zeit weekly in an interview
published March 23.  The Nord Stream undersea pipeline to Germany is due to
start delivering Russian gas to European consumers in October.
Chances that Nabucco will also be built are increasing as
Germany edges away from nuclear power, said Claudia Kemfert, an
energy analyst at the Berlin-based DIW economic institute.  “This pipeline will be swept up in the boom,” she said.
“It will be built to meet increased demand for gas.”  Not all Germans are convinced that Nabucco, which would
 avoid Russian territory , is enough to stem Germany’s reliance.  “We have to make sure there’s a diversity of sources,”
said Michael Kauch, parliamentary environment spokesman for
Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner. “We can’t get
too dependent on Russia.”  For Merkel, practical considerations may outweigh any
concerns at becoming over-reliant on Russia,  Alexander Rahr , a
Russia expert at the German Council on Foreign Relations in
Berlin, said by phone.  Merkel “understands very well what she can expect of
Russia; where Russia can be of help, where Russia cannot be of
help,” Rahr said. “Nobody expected what happened in  Japan , but
in the end it will benefit those who have built those extra
pipelines from Russia.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  