-- 
Russia Pushes Bulgaria to Decide on Oil Pipeline, Nuclear Plant

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-04-07T10:20:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/russia-pushes-bulgaria-to-decide-on-oil-pipeline-nuclear-plant.html
Russia  urged  Bulgaria  to speed up
decisions to allow the countries to start building an oil
pipeline bypassing  Turkey ’s Bosporus strait and a nuclear power
plant on the Danube River.  “We didn’t discuss concrete timelines, but we should head
into the homestretch and we expect final decisions on the fate
of the project soon,” Russian Energy Minister Sergei Shmatko
told reporters in Moscow late yesterday after meeting with his
Bulgarian counterpart Traicho Traikov.  Bulgaria delayed approval for construction of the oil
pipeline from the Black Sea port of Burgas to the Greek port of
Alexandroupolis, on the Aegean, in late March for a second time
as it assesses the impact on the environment.  The Bulgarian government extended the deadline for the
report by two months as it considers concerns that an  oil spill 
would harm tourism at the country’s  Black Sea  resorts.  Bulgaria always adheres to its international agreements and
doesn’t plan to change that, Traikov said. The Russian
government has shown understanding, he said.  Russia, Bulgaria and  Greece  agreed in 2007 to build the 1
billion-euro ($1.4 billion) link to bypass the Bosporus and
Dardanelles straits, saving shipping costs. The 285-kilometer
(177-mile) pipeline will be able to carry as much as 35 million
metric tons of oil a year. A referendum held in the Burgas
region in 2008 opposed the pipeline on grounds that there would
be a high risk of an oil spill from tankers filling it.  Nuclear Safety  Bulgaria and Russia also aim to resolve outstanding issues
on a project to build a new 2,000-megawatt nuclear power plant
at Belene on the Danube, Shmatko said.  The Bulgarian authorities are carrying out additional
analysis on nuclear safety after  Japan ’s worst-ever earthquake
and tsunami last month damaged reactors and led to radiation
leaks. This has raised concerns about the fate of the much-
delayed project in Bulgaria.  “We believe that our project meets all necessary safety
standards,” Shmatko said. “I am sure it will pass this test
for higher security requirements that will now, of course, apply
to all nuclear power projects.”  Bulgaria is focusing on safety to ensure that residents are
calm and no disasters occur, Traikov said.  Bulgaria has sought to construct a nuclear plant to meet
growing energy needs as older utilities are decommissioned. The
project stalled after a contract with Russian state-owned
Rosatom Corp. was signed in 2005 because of a lack of funding
and disagreements over Russia’s demands for higher construction
costs.  Rosatom increased the price to about 6.4 billion euros from
4 billion euros because of delayed construction. Bulgaria
estimates the cost at about 5 billion euros.  “I am optimistic about prospects of the Belene plant
construction,” Shmatko said. “We need to find mutually
acceptable solutions to the remaining issues, within documents
that have previously been signed between our countries and
companies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net 
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net 
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  