-- 
Ryan Budget’s Tax-Rate Target Would Force $2.9 Trillion in Tax-Break Cuts

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-04-08T15:48:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ryan-s-rate-target-would-force-2-9-trillion-in-tax-break-cuts.html
Representative  Paul Ryan ’s proposal
to lower the top individual and corporate tax rates to 25
percent would require Congress to eliminate more than $2.9
trillion worth of tax breaks over the next decade, according to
a new  analysis .  The study released yesterday by the  Tax Policy Center  in
 Washington  provides the first independent estimate of the
challenges that Ryan and congressional Republicans would face
in trying to drive tax rates down while holding total revenue
collection between 18 percent and 19 percent of the gross
domestic product.  “It’s a lot of money,” said  Roberton Williams , senior
fellow at the center, which is funded by the nonpartisan  Urban
Institute  and the  Brookings Institution . “Three trillion
dollars over 10 years doesn’t make a job any easier.”  In his proposal, Ryan said he wanted to eliminate or
sharply curtail so-called tax expenditures to broaden the tax
base. Getting to $2.9 trillion would likely require him to
eliminate some of the largest items, such as the mortgage
interest deduction, the deduction for charitable contributions
and the exclusion for employer-provided health insurance.  Two Conditions  For example, in 2014, the mortgage-interest deduction is
projected to cost the government $106.8 billion in forgone
revenue, about one-third of the $295.6 billion target that Ryan
would have to hit for that year. The task is likely to prove
even more difficult than that, because that calculation is
based on the assumption that tax rates will be higher; the
lower rates reduce the value of deductions.  Ryan, a Wisconsin Republican, released his budget outline
on April 5 and set two parameters for the revenue side of the
budget: The top individual and corporate tax rates should drop
to 25 percent from 35 percent, and the government should
collect about the same amount of money over the next decade as
it would if Congress extended all of the income tax cuts
expiring at the end of 2012. That’s $4.2 trillion less than the
government would collect if Congress didn’t extend expiring tax
breaks.  House passage of Ryan’s budget wouldn’t, by itself, lower
the tax rates or eliminate tax breaks. Those details would need
to be included in a separate bill that would start at the House
Ways and Means Committee.  ‘Historical Norms’  Ways and Means Committee Chairman  Dave Camp , a Michigan
Republican, has also set 25 percent as his preferred top rate.  “The pro-growth tax reform proposal included in Chairman
Ryan’s budget proposal is both revenue neutral and holds
revenue at historical norms,” Camp spokeswoman Michelle Dimarob said in an e-mailed statement.  A spokesman for Ryan didn’t respond to a request for
comment.  The center’s analysis assumed that the 28 percent, 33
percent and 35 percent brackets would all be collapsed into the
25 percent bracket. If that framework were applied to 2011, the
top  tax rate  would take effect for individuals once taxable
income exceeded $34,500 and for married couples once taxable
income surpassed $69,000.  Moving any of those taxpayers into tax brackets with lower
marginal rates would require Ryan to find additional money to
make up any forgone revenue, Williams said.  AMT Repeal  The analysis also assumes that the alternative minimum tax
would be repealed, which accounts for $545 billion of the cost.
Otherwise, Williams said, the AMT would grow dramatically in
ways that lawmakers have never allowed. The AMT is a parallel
tax system originally designed to prevent wealthy individuals
from legally avoiding taxes.  The estimates also follow Ryan’s direction to repeal last
year’s health-care law, which included tax increases on
investment income and wages of individuals making more than
$200,000 and married couples making more than $250,000.  As a comparison, a tax plan that the  bipartisan fiscal
commission  wrote last year set top individual and corporate
rates of 28 percent. It would eliminate itemized deductions,
turn the major ones into credits, and tax capital gains and
dividends as ordinary income.  Unlike Ryan’s proposal, the commission’s plan also was
designed to raise more revenue than would an extension of
current  tax policy . It set a revenue target of 21 percent of
GDP.  Ryan, a member of the commission, voted against that plan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  