-- 
Scene Last Night: Dree Hemingway, Jeff Koons, Gilbert & George

-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 
2011-04-07T14:55:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/scene-last-night-koons-dree-hemingway-dakis-joannou-gilbert-george.html
There were many happy pairs at the
New Museum Spring Gala in  Manhattan ’s financial district last
night.  Duffy, a hairstylist to models and actresses, chatted with
Dree Hemingway, model, actress and great-granddaughter of
Ernest.  Dakis Joannou, billionaire Greek industrialist, ate dinner
with  Jeff Koons , the artist entrusted with curating a show of
Joannou’s collection at the New Museum last year.  Alex Katz, who is working on a series of “the faces of
flowers,” stuck close to his wife and muse, Ada Katz. Artist
George Condo and his wife, Anna, were similarly welded.  The couples garnering the most attention were the event’s
honorees: collectors Gael Neeson and Stefan Edlis and the
artists Gilbert & George, who have been working, dressing and
talking in sync since the 1960s.  The duos accepted their awards at a Lucite lectern.  “We are so happy that we are smiling at both ends,”
Gilbert & George said in unison.  The party, on the 45th floor of 7 World Trade Center,
featured an inventive menu by Bite restaurant, especially the
foie gras bread pudding and elderflower custard. East Village
mixologists Death & Co. provided cocktails made with Prairie
Organic Vodka.  Tobias Meyer, worldwide head of contemporary art at
Sotheby’s, auctioned off a photographic portrait-sitting with
Chuck Close for $250,000. The 33 collages that Josh Smith made
for the gala, some of which were exhibited next to a red carpet
as guests arrived, sold out.  The party brought in $1.3 million. Bloomberg LP, the parent
of Bloomberg News, was among the event’s sponsors.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 