-- 
Seagate Advances on Dividend, Sales That Exceed Predictions

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 
2011-04-07T22:43:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/seagate-advances-on-dividend-sales-that-exceed-predictions-1-.html
Seagate Technology Plc (STX) , the world’s
largest maker of computer disk drives, gained in late trading
after saying it would pay a quarterly dividend of 18 cents and
reporting quarterly sales that topped analysts’ predictions.  Sales in the fiscal third quarter, which ended April 1,
were about $2.7 billion,  Scotts Valley , California-based Seagate
said in a statement today. Analysts, on average, had predicted
revenue of $2.62 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
stock rose as much as 7.9 percent to $15.85 in extended trading.  The results contrast with a report in January that showed
second-quarter profit below analysts’ projections. Those figures
fueled concern that Seagate would suffer as consumers favor
smartphones and other consumer electronics, such as Apple Inc.’s
iPad, that don’t rely on hard-disk storage.  Seagate said today it had shipments of 49 million and gross
margin as a percentage of revenue “near or slightly above the
high end” of a range of 18 percent to 19 percent last quarter.
The company had shipments of 48.9 million and gross margin of
19.5 percent in the second quarter.  To counter a slump in demand for hard disks, Seagate is
working to develop alternatives, such as external devices that
connect to tablets to deliver music and other content, and so-
called hybrid drives, which contain components of both hard
disks and the flash drives that are growing in popularity.  Seagate spurned an acquisition offer of more than $7.5
billion from TPG Capital in November and turned down a takeover
proposal from rival Western Digital Corp., people familiar with
the matter have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  