-- 
SEC, Companies Clash in Court on Rule Boosting Investors Powers

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-07T16:32:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/sec-companies-clash-in-court-on-rule-boosting-investors-powers.html
A Securities and Exchange Commission
rule making it easier for shareholders to oust board members was
based on “serious error” in assessing its cost to companies, a
lawyer for business groups told a U.S. appeals court.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and the Business Roundtable
today asked the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington  to overturn
the proxy access  rule , which was mandated by the Dodd-Frank
financial-regulatory overhaul enacted last year.  Eugene Scalia, a lawyer at Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher in
Washington who represents the business groups, said the
commission failed to study the cost of fighting a challenge from
shareholders. The rule would allow investors or shareholder
groups that own at least 3 percent stock for three years to put
their own board nominees on proxy statements.  “It’s extremely costly,” said Scalia, noting that the
price of a proxy battle could be as much as $14 million for a
major company. “The commission failed to make any estimate at
all.”  The SEC’s assistant general counsel, Randall Quinn, said
the potential costs are reasonable because not every board will
oppose a candidate put forward by shareholder.  “It’s reasonable to expect that a shareholder nominee will
be sufficiently qualified,” Quinn said.  Shareholder Nominee  Asked by Chief Judge David Sentelle and Judge Douglas Ginsburg whether a board has ever accepted a shareholder
nominee, Quinn said he didn’t know.  “Large companies spend up to $11 million to oppose
dissident candidates and we don’t know whether they will just
roll over,” Ginsburg said.  The chamber and the  Business Roundtable , which represents
chief executive officers of the nation’s biggest companies,
challenged the rule in a lawsuit in September, claiming the SEC
had botched its responsibility to consider the cost and
potential abuse of the rule.  The measure is on hold pending the outcome of the business
groups’ suit.  The case is Business Roundtable v. Securities and Exchange
Commission, 10-1305, U.S. Court of Appeals,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story: Tom Schoenberg in
Washington at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 