-- 
Insider-Trading Scheme Laid Out in a Tale of Recorded Calls

-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   A n n   W o o l n e r
-- 
2011-04-07T16:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/secret-tips-from-a-new-york-lawyer-led-to-32-million-insider-trading-bust.html
Trader Garrett Bauer sounded both
nervous and confident on the call last month. Federal agents had
just searched the home of the man on the other end of the line,
a go-between he’d used in an alleged insider-trading scheme that
the men thought they’d kept a secret since the mid-1990s.  Bauer, 43, told his friend he believed they’d sufficiently
hidden their crimes by talking on disposable cell or pay phones
and by using cash from small bank accounts to dole out profits
of the alleged scheme. What Bauer didn’t know was that his
middleman colleague was recording the conversation for the FBI,
according to transcripts of the March 28 call and four others
released yesterday when Bauer and a tipster lawyer were charged.  “There is no way they could ever be recorded,” Bauer said
to the unidentified middleman, a former co-worker in a Manhattan
real estate firm, about the calls, according to a criminal
complaint filed in federal court in  Newark , New Jersey.  As with the U.S. government’s biggest current insider
trading case -- the one against Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , a billionaire hedge fund manager now on trial in New
York -- key evidence against Bauer and his colleagues involved
recorded calls. Transcripts of calls last month take up 12 pages
of the 29-page criminal complaint.  Matthew Kluger, 50, the lawyer who is charged with
providing deal tips involved companies that included  Oracle
Corp. (ORCL) ,  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  and  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,
seemed equally nervous on his calls when talking about the FBI
visit to the middleman’s home on March 8.  Kluger’s Idea  The scheme laid out by prosecutors began with Kluger’s
passing tips about deals he worked on as an associate for major
deal law firms. Initially he worked for New York-based Cravath
Swaine & Moore LLP from 1994 to 1997 and at Skadden Arps Slate
Meagher & Flom LLP, another  New York  firm, from 1998 to 2001.  After a five-year hiatus, the scheme resumed in December
2005 and continued until March 2011, when Kluger worked in the
Washington office of Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC,
authorities said.  Kluger was careful never to pass on information about deals
he was working on himself, according to call transcripts. He was
able in some cases to see which clients were considering a deal
without having to open the file and leave a digital record,
according to one call transcript.  “He always told me he never opened a, any document on the
computer,” the middleman, who was not charged, told Bauer on a
March 18 call.  Even with that precaution, Kluger said: “If they start
looking at me and look at my bank records and all that other
stuff, it could be, it could get ugly,” according to a March 17
call transcript.  Upset  Kluger was particularly upset that the middleman had called
him at home because that had left a record of the conversation
on a throwaway cell phone. He urged his caller to hide the phone
“somewhere that has nothing to do with you. They have dogs that
can sniff, that can sniff for cell phones. They train them for
prison.”  Still, after the two men reviewed all the precautions they
had taken over the years in their inside-tip scheme, Kluger
concluded: “As long as Mr. G keeps his mouth shut and I keep
mine and you keep yours, I don’t think they’re gonna find enough
of anything,” according to the call transcript.  Bauer, called Mr. G in the complaint, had his own moment of
worry when the middleman called after the FBI raid.  “I can’t sleep,” Bauer said during a call that day. “I
am waiting for the FBI to ride into my apartment. And I am on
edge all night thinking that they’re coming.’  Bauer Recovers  Bauer eventually recovered his composure, and, in a series
of calls, went over all the things he and his colleagues should
do or say if investigators got onto their scheme.  Though Kluger was the initiator of the scheme back in 1994,
having asked the middleman to find people who could trade on
inside tips he found at his law firm, Bauer became the paymaster
and main benefactor, according to prosecutors. Out of the $32
million in illicit profits the trio allegedly made in the last
five years, Bauer got about $30 million, according to the
criminal complaint. In providing the rest to his colleagues, he
made the ATM withdrawals from several accounts.  If asked to explain the withdrawals, according to one taped
call, he told the middleman: “I will say I bought prostitutes if
it comes down to it.”  He also became concerned that his fingerprints might be on
some of the cash he’d provided and urged the middleman to burn
the money he’d hidden to eliminate any such evidence.  The middleman, who said he was hiding some cash at a
cousin’s house, thought that was foolish and suggested on one
call that they instead launder the money -- literally.  Money Laundering   The middleman’s cousin has suggested the idea of putting
the money in a washing machine, a trick Bauer said he’d seen “in
the movies.”  The middleman said putting the money in a washer was “the
best case” solution to the fingerprints problem, though he was
concerned about being caught with the money before he washed it.  “It’s being paranoid,” the middleman told Bauer according
to one call transcript. “But, you know, it’s better to be
paranoid than to, than to take risks.”  In the end, Bauer assured his middleman friend, that all
would be well because “I am sitting with over $20 million in the
bank.” He also said he had an apartment in  Manhattan  that
prosecutors valued at $6.65 million and a house in  Boca Raton ,
 Florida , they said was worth $875,000.  Don’t Worry  He told the middleman not to worry about any expenses he
might incur on defense lawyers or about his family’s finances if
the middleman somehow wound up going to prison.  “You, your kids, everything it will be set,” Bauer told the
middleman, according to a recorded March 18 call. “There is
nothing to worry about. Everything. College, education,
everything.”  Bauer added: “I’m not worried about me going broke.”  Perhaps a little poorer, though. U.S. agents seized a $20.5
million account controlled by Bauer, who told court officials
that he had $70 million in assets.  Notwithstanding the evidence of the calls, Bauer attorney
Donald Derfner said yesterday, “There is still a presumption of
innocence.” Kluger appeared without a lawyer yesterday in
federal court in Alexandria,  Virginia , where a magistrate judge
ordered him held without bail.  The judge set a preliminary hearing for April 8. Kluger,
who alleged made at least $500,000 from the scheme in the last
five years, asked the judge to appoint a lawyer for him.  One call the men may have to explain is a March 21
conversation during which Bauer was recorded saying: “I mean
the fact is we did something wrong. So it is not like we are
being convicted of doing nothing. We did something wrong here.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Garrett Bauer, 11-mj-3536,
U.S. District Court, District of  New Jersey  (Newark). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Matthew H. Kluger
and Garrett D. Bauer, U.S. District Court, District of New
Jersey (Newark).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Washington at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Woolner in New York at 
 awoolner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  