-- 
Serbia’s Central Bank Eases Rules to Allow Voluntary Debt Relief

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c   a n d   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-04-07T12:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/serbia-s-central-bank-eases-rules-to-allow-voluntary-debt-relief.html
Serbia ’s central bank eased rules to
allow voluntary debt relief to companies and citizens,
responding to Prime Minister  Mirko Cvetkovic ’s pledge to boost
purchasing power in the nation a year before general elections.  “Changes to lending conditions, agreed on voluntary basis
and with mutual consent of both sides, in a way contributing to
a more regular and certain debt repayment by the debtor, will
increase the stability of the financial system of the country,
consequently leading to a greater protection of depositors’
interests,” the National Bank of Serbia said in a  statement .  Changes affect both retail and corporate lending and refer
to changes in how banks “classify their balance sheet and off-
balance sheet items,” the bank said on its website.  Cvetkovic and central bank Governor Dejan Soskic are
scheduled to detail the measures at a press conference at 3:00
p.m. today in Belgrade.  Cvetkovic first raised the idea last month, when the
central bank said it would support the move if commercial
lenders agree to it. At the time he said the debt relief would
affect nearly 900,000 retail clients in a country where the
unemployment hit 20 percent in 2010 and where 200,000 people in
formal economy lost their jobs during global recession pushing
the number of unemployed to one million.  The average rate of late payments, defined as 15 days or
more behind for corporate clients and at least 60 days late for
households and individuals, rose to 11.2 percent, from 10.6
percent in January, according to the Serbian Bank Association
figures for February. The figure stood at 10.3 percent from 7.2
a year earlier at the end of 2010.  Cvetkovic’s cabinet, whose members belong to a coalition of
the  Democratic Party , the Socialists and the G17 Plus party, is
aiming to be the first since 2000 to last its full four-year
term.  General elections are due by March 2012, while opposition
parties are calling for early elections to be held soon after
the European Commission unveils its opinion on Oct. 12 on
whether Serbia is fit to become a European Union candidate.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net 
or Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  