-- 
Serbian Central Bank Raises Europe’s Highest Rate to 12.5%

-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 
2011-04-07T11:10:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/serbian-central-bank-raises-europe-s-highest-main-rate-to-12-5-.html
Serbia ’s central bank raised
 Europe ’s highest benchmark interest rate by a quarter-point as
it struggles to rein in price pressures stemming from global
food and energy costs and rising wages.  The Belgrade-based  Narodna Banka Srbije  increased its two-
week repurchase rate to 12.5 percent, the third move higher this
year, the bank said on its website today. The decision was in
line with the forecast of 14 of 23 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. One saw a half-point increase and one a jump to 13
percent, while seven expected no change.  Serbia is still “decisively influenced by unexpectedly
high growth in food prices, caused by global developments,” the
central bank said in a statement on its website.  Central banks around the world are struggling to contain
inflation as food prices advance and the oil costs rise amid
turmoil in the Middle East. Serbia’s rate increase, the eighth
since August, came on a day when the  European Central Bank  meets
in  Frankfurt  amid expectations for its benchmark interest rate
to jump a quarter-point to 1.25 percent.  A further rate increase by the Serbian central bank is
likely as inflation “continues to accelerate,” economists
including Eldar Vakhitov of London-based  Barclays Capital  said.  ‘Significantly Decline’  Inflation in February accelerated to 12.6 percent, the
highest since October 2008, and is likely to climb further in
the second quarter because of electricity price increases that
took effect April 1.  Non-food prices are stable and inflationary pressures
stemming from rising food prices seem to be “one-off” and they
will “significantly decline” with the new harvest season, the
central bank statement said.  “We expect the central bank to resume its tightening cycle
through the second quarter, but the scale of hikes will probably
be moderate,” analysts at  Societe Generale  said in a note
before the decision. “Bearing in mind that the country is
approaching an election year, there is a risk public spending
could increase amid eroding popularity of the government.”  Under its 3 billion-euro ($4.3 billion) bailout loan
program with the  International Monetary Fund , Serbia needs to
keep its  budget deficit  within 4.1 percent of economic output.  Anchoring Inflation  The National Bank of Serbia targets inflation of 4.5
percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points at the end of 2011,
and 4 percent, plus or minus 1.5 percentage points at the end of
next year. To achieve its goal, the central bank needs to push
rates even higher, Hypo Alpe Adria Bank analysts said today.  “Anchoring inflation into the single digits by year-end
2011 will require more rate hikes going ahead since even our
most conservative models still imply inflation at least two
percentage points above the upper end of the target,” Hypo said
in a note to investors.  The National Bank has largely relied on the firming dinar
to fight inflation since the start of 2011. High rates have
attracted fresh capital inflows, boosting the dinar 3.7 percent
against the euro since the end of 2010. The currency traded at
101.98 to the euro at 1:08 p.m. in Belgrade, according to
Bloomberg data.  The Serbian central bank is also hoping the euro will rise
against the  U.S. dollar  to ease imported price pressures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  