-- 
IRS Sticks To April 18 Tax-Filing Deadline Even If Government Shuts Down

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/shutdown-won-t-budge-april-18-tax-filing-deadline-irs-says.html
The  Internal Revenue Service  will
delay processing tax returns filed on paper if many government
functions shut down April 8 because of the budget stalemate in
Congress, potentially stalling refunds for millions of
taxpayers.  A government shutdown will not affect processing of
electronically filed returns, and it will not delay the April 18
deadline for individual income-tax filing, said Internal Revenue
Service Commissioner Douglas Shulman.  “File your tax returns,” he said in response to questions
yesterday at the  National Press Club  in  Washington . “We’re
going to be accepting returns. Electronically file. You’re not
going to see any delay.”  Last year, according to the IRS, taxpayers filed  43.7
million income tax returns  on paper, or about 31 percent of
total returns. Through March 25 of  this year , taxpayers had
filed 11.2 million returns on paper. The total number of paper
returns this year is likely to decline, because the electronic
filing rate continues to increase.  Returns filed on paper tend to be concentrated at the end
of the tax season. Last year, during the two weeks in April that
correspond with the next two weeks, taxpayers filed 29.2 million
returns, 46.2 percent of which were filed on paper.  Tax Refunds  Most individual taxpayers receive refunds, and the average
refund so far this year is $2,952, according to the IRS.  Delays in issuing refunds won’t have a broad economic
effect, said  Lou Crandall , chief economist of Wrightson ICAP
LLC, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based research firm that
specializes in U.S. government finance. He said taxpayers who
tend to spend more of their refunds file earlier so they can get
the money quickly.  “The later you go, the percentage of refunds that gets
recycled into consumption goes down,” he said.  Other IRS operations, including audits, will be curtailed
or will cease during a government shutdown, an administration
official who spoke on condition of anonymity said earlier
yesterday.  As of late yesterday, IRS employees had not been told who
should continue to report to work during a shutdown, said
Colleen Kelley, president of the  National Treasury Employees
Union , which represents IRS workers.  “The unknown for employees is just very disconcerting,”
she said.  As of Sept. 30, 2010, the IRS had 94,346 employees.  Depositing Checks  Shulman did not say whether the IRS would open paper
returns and deposit checks contained in them into the Treasury.
Last week, he told a House subcommittee that the agency’s old
plan, developed during the 1990s, called for depositing checks
and not processing the returns themselves.  “If they’re not going to open the returns and process the
checks, they would run into the debt ceiling fairly quickly,”
Crandall said. “It would be very surprising if they left more
than $100 billion uncashed.”  The delay in processing paper returns would affect
taxpayers who must file in that manner. That includes some
claiming the first-time homebuyer credit or a tax credit for
adoption that tops $13,000, said Kathy Pickering, executive
director of the Tax Institute at  H&R Block Inc. (HRB) , the country’s
largest tax-preparation company, based in  Kansas City ,  Missouri .  “It’s not a high population, but it is a substantial
credit -- so for those who are able to take advantage of it,
it’s a meaningful amount,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net 
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  