-- 
Singapore Exchange Forecasts More Cross-Border Deals in Asia

-- B y   L y n n   T h o m a s s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T05:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/singapore-exchange-forecasts-more-cross-border-deals-in-asia.html
Muthukrishnan Ramaswami, co-
president of the  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , comments on cross-
border deals at the Asian Banker Summit today in  Hong Kong .  The Singapore Exchange’s A$7.74 billion ($8 billion) offer
to buy Australian stock exchange operator  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  is poised to
be rejected by regulators. Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  said
on April 5 that the Foreign Investment Review Board advised him
that the deal was not in the country’s national interest:  “Serving customers across borders and serving across the
region is going to become more important.  “There’s going to be a trend of more transactions
happening across borders, and as that happens, institutions that
are owned regionally, even if they are regulated individually
across countries.  “It is an irreversible trend and something that will
happen.  “We thought that the time was right in  Asia  to have the
right steps going on this, but the recent events of this week
don’t yet show that, but having said that we do believe that it
will happen over time.  “The changes that are coming through the financial sector,
the increased demand for transparency, the increased demand for
safe-haven dealing with counterparties that don’t want too much
bilateral risk, all of these open up opportunities that are
enormous for market infrastructures.  “At the same time, to provide for those, you need both
scale and bulk and you can’t hope to serve institutions across
the region by being extremely localized and being in one place,
even if you’re big and strong.”  On international mergers:  “There are mergers that are happening in the  Europe  and
the U.S. that are very much consolidation or cost driven, where
what they are trying to do is make better margins out of their
trading platform.  “Where we are in Asia is one of growth, rather than
consolidation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Thomasson in Hong Kong at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at   ngentle2@bloomberg.net  