-- 
Slower Oil Output May Not Be ‘Dramatic’ for Growth, IMF Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-07T15:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/slower-oil-output-may-not-be-dramatic-for-growth-imf-says.html
A slowdown in oil production over
the next 20 years may not be a “major constraint” on global
economic growth provided it is “moderate,” the  International
Monetary Fund  said.  “If, as in the benchmark scenario, the trend growth rate
of oil output declined only modestly, world output would
eventually suffer but the effect might not be dramatic,” the
Washington-based IMF said in parts of its World Economic Outlook
report released today.  At the same time it warned that such a limited impact
“should not be taken for granted” as “important” risks to
oil investment and capacity growth mean that “oil scarcity
could be more severe.”  The IMF estimates that if growth in oil production falls by
1 percentage point from its historical trend rate of 1.8
percent, it will slow the global economic expansion by less than
0.25 percentage point per year. Over 20 years, oil prices would
climb by a cumulative 200 percent, it said.  Crude prices have advanced this year as political unrest
that toppled leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  spread to Libya,
Yemen, Bahrain and  Syria . Oil for May delivery reached a 30-
month high of $108.83 a barrel yesterday as NATO escalated its
air campaign over Libya, bolstering concern the conflict will
affect other energy-exporting countries in the region.  The IMF estimates that oil, the most traded commodity in
the world, has entered “a period of increased scarcity,” which
“arises from continued tension between rapid growth in oil
demand in emerging market economies and the downshift in oil
supply trend growth.”  OPEC Production  Oil production from the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries dropped 500,000 barrels a day to 29.64 million barrels
a day in March, according to JBC Energy.  “We estimate  Libya  produced 350,000 barrels a day last
month, which compares with 1.38 million in February and 1.63
million in January,” the Vienna-based researcher said April 1.  Oil supply, including production of oils not classified as
crude, will come “close” to reaching a peak by 2035, the
 International Energy Agency  forecast in November in its annual
World Energy Outlook.  OPEC will account for 50 percent of the world’s oil supply
by 2035 while production from outside the group falters, the IEA
said. Global oil demand will increase 18 percent to 99 million
barrels a day in 2035, from 84 million a day in 2009, the IEA
said.  IMF Scenario  Under the IMF main scenario, rising  oil prices  would lead
to a global readjustment in economic forces via trade and
capital flows. Exporting countries would experience rising
wealth and domestic demand, which would put upward pressure on
consumer prices. They would also increase savings, lowering the
world’s real interest rates.  The higher prices would hurt oil importers’ growth, though
the impact would be cushioned in some countries by a surge in
exports of goods to oil-exporting counterparts and by rising
demand for investment in response to the lower borrowing costs.  In a more pessimistic approach, IMF economists looked at
the impact of a 2 percent decrease in annual oil output, as
opposed to a slowdown in growth.  That would require an increase in oil price of 800 percent
over 20 years, it estimated, an “unprecedented” magnitude
whose effects on activity the IMF model could not capture
adequately, it said.  Unexpected Shifts  Uncertainties over scarcity should push governments to make
sure policies are in place that would enable their economies to
adjust to large and unexpected shifts in output, the IMF
concluded.  While it recommended against oil subsidies, which would
surge and broaden fiscal deficits, the IMF said countries should
have well targeted safety nets to protect the poorest.  They
should also aim at developing alternative sources of energy, it
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Paris at  srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  