-- 
Some U.S. Government Websites Would Go Dark During Shutdown

-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 
2011-04-07T21:25:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/some-u-s-government-websites-would-go-dark-during-a-shutdown.html
Some U.S. agencies plan to place
messages on their websites stating content isn’t available in
the event of a government shutdown, a Commerce Department
official said today.  Among the sites that would be closed are those operated by
the  Commerce Department , such as the  Economics and Statistics
Administration , the  Economic Development Administration , and the
 National Institute of Standards and Technology , said the
official, who asked not to be identified because he wasn’t
authorized to speak about the website policy.  A failure by Congress to extend the government’s spending
authority, which expires tomorrow, would force the closure of
national parks, monuments and museums. Federal agencies that
don’t protect lives, property or national security also would be
shuttered.  The  National Weather Service , which is part of the Commerce
Department, will update its website with forecasts and weather
warnings if the government closes.  Other parts of the site, including pages that offer
information on education and outreach programs not deemed
essential won’t be updated, Susan Buchanan, a Weather Service
spokeswoman, said in an interview.  Some websites that serve essential functions will continue
to operate in the event of a government shutdown even if their
costs are funded through appropriations that have lapsed,
according to an Obama administration official who asked to
remain anonymous because the shutdown is not definite.  One example may be the  Internal Revenue Service  website,
which is necessary to allow for tax filings and tax collection,
the official said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  