-- 
Sotheby’s Sale Marathon Totals $450 Million on Chinese Bids

-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 
2011-04-08T12:53:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/sotheby-s-porcelain-sale-misses-estimates-as-buyers-hold-back-in-hong-kong.html
Sotheby’s eight-day  Hong Kong 
marathon ended today with HK$3.49 billion ($450 million) sales,
as mainland buyers paid top prices for the rarest items.  Chinese millionaires competed for fine wines, contemporary
Asian paintings and rare porcelains, pushing the series above
its estimate of HK$2.67 billion. It had 3,600 lots, about 1,000
more than last April’s auction in the city that took a record
HK$2 billion, beating an estimate of HK$1.3 billion.  The final day saw keen bidding by both dealers and
collectors who competed for rhinoceros-horn carvings, imperial
seals and Qing-dynasty porcelain. It also marked a return to
enthusiasm in the auction room after a disappointing result
achieved by the Meiyintang collection sale yesterday.  “There was a lull last night and people got nervous,”
said  Stuart Marchant , a London-based dealer. “But the market is
healthy, there’s no question. All the top lots sold today.”  Yesterday’s 77-lot sale of the Meiyintang collection, one
of the finest private groupings of ceramics, was billed to be a
highlight of Hong Kong’s first major auction of the year.  Collectors held back from bidding on an Imperial vase and
other premium lots after they were told that they needed to
pay a deposit in advance and prove their ability to comply with 
a 30-day payment period.  Guarded Bidding  “There was a lot of guarded bidding on some of the top
lots,” Sotheby’s said in an e-mailed news release. William
Qian, a London-based dealer who won eight lots, said “a lot of
hot money from  China  and elsewhere couldn’t come in.”  China overtook the U.S. as the world’s biggest auction
market for fine art in 2010, according to research company
 Artprice . Still, payment issues may hobble its growth. London
auction house Bainbridges is awaiting payment on a Qianlong-era
vase that was bid to a record $83.2 million in November. Sellers
at international auctions are insisting on deposit protection.  Last night, the 18th-century Qing Dynasty porcelain vase
picturing golden pheasants, which had been estimated to fetch
more than HK$180 million ($23 million), failed to sell initially
when bids fell short of the minimum. It fetched HK$200 million
after the event. A blue and white “Palace Bowl” also sold
after the auction for HK$90 million, said  Sotheby’s. (BID)   “There is a critical moment when the auction is purely
emotional, and the room can be fickle, that was clear last
night,” Nicolas Chow, Sotheby’s head of Chinese Works of Art,
said in an interview. “It’s healthy sign that the two top lots
that didn’t sell we sold immediately at the low estimate
afterwards. People felt the prices of objects were right.”  Private Sales  The proceeds of the Meiyintang auction were $51.2 million
including fees, below the $91 million to $137 million presale
estimated hammer prices. Adding the extra private sales, the
total was $88.4 million, nearer the low estimate.  That auction contrasted with the ebullient Ullens sale of
contemporary Chinese art on April 3, where the $54.9 million
raised was more than three times the estimate of $16.7 million.  Zhang Xiaogang triptych’s “Forever Lasting Love” fetched
HK$79 million with fees, more than double a hammer-price
estimate of as much as HK$30 million, setting an auction record
for a contemporary work by a Chinese artist.  Three more artist records were set in the first hour of the
Ullens event: for  Zhang Peili ,  Wang Guangyi  and  Geng Jianyi ,
with prices of as much as $3 million.  Meiyintang -- which means hall among rose beds -- includes
some 2,000 pieces amassed by 94-year-old Stephen Zuellig and his
brother Gilbert Zuellig who died in 2009. They were from a Swiss
family which made its fortune distributing pharmaceuticals.  Collectors’ Repute  The Zuelligs’ reputation as meticulous collectors was meant
to help buoy prices, Giuseppe Eskenazi, a dealer in Chinese art,
said before the auction.  “This whole collection comes with pedigree and provenance,
and that means a lot to a new buyer,” Eskenazi said.  “There is really no better painting on porcelain,” art
historian Regina Krahl said of the vase before the sale.  Sotheby’s, the world’s biggest publicly traded auction
company saw its shares fall 5.21 percent, the most since July
16, to $49.43 in New York Stock Exchange trading yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederik Balfour in Hong Kong at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 