-- 
South Carolina’s Governor Haley Shakes Up Established Order in Columbia

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/south-carolina-s-haley-shakes-up-established-order-in-columbia.html
Governor Nikki Haley, the first
woman to lead  South Carolina , upended the status quo at the
state’s biggest public university last month by removing its
most generous benefactor from the board of trustees.  Darla Moore, a financier who had donated $70 million to the
University of South Carolina, was taken off the board by Haley.
She was replaced by Thomas Cofield, a lawyer who gave $4,500 to
Haley’s campaign for governor, state records show.  “We are changing the way we fund higher ed, and I needed
someone I could count on to fight for me,” Haley, 39, said in
an interview. As for Moore, “a big pocketbook doesn’t need to
be on the governing board because all of a sudden, the big
pocketbook becomes the only voting member,” the governor said.  Haley, an accountant who began keeping the books for the
family  business  at 13, is no stranger to upending the
established order. As a candidate, the Republican lawmaker ran
against “good-old-boy” networks. She pledged to attack what
Tim Pearson, a top campaign aide, referred to then as a
“taxpayer-financed fraternity party” in Columbia, the capital.  Likening Haley’s communications skills to “ Ronald Reagan 
in a skirt,” Representative Ralph Norman, a Rock Hill
Republican, said the governor “doesn’t owe anybody because when
she started her campaign, nobody thought she could win.”  Beat Incumbent  Few figured she would succeed in her first race for office,
in 2004. Yet at 32, she toppled a 30-year incumbent Republican
in Lexington County to enter the  House of Representatives . An
advocate of smaller government and fiscal restraint, she became
an ally of then-Governor Mark Sanford.  When she met her future husband at Clemson University, he
went by Bill. She got him to start using his middle name,
Michael, as he didn’t fit her image of a Bill. Now she’s Mrs.
Michael Haley.  Entering the race for governor last year, Haley won support
from Jenny Sanford, the former governor’s ex-wife, and Tea Party
favorite Sarah Palin, the 2008 Republican nominee for vice
president. She ran as an outsider to defeat better-financed
opponents, who included a lieutenant governor, an incumbent
congressional representative and a state attorney general. Her
budget was so tight, she sold campaign lawn signs at $5 each.  While Haley’s success elevated her to the national stage,
her handling of the University of South Carolina’s board led to
campus protest rallies and barbs from fellow Republicans.  Replacing Moore  Haley said she replaced Moore, 56, a trustee since 1999, to
make the board more responsive to her. By then, Moore had become
the most-generous financial supporter of the university in its
history.  Moore, an executive vice president at Rainwater Inc., the
private  investment company  started by her husband, billionaire
Richard Rainwater, declined to comment on the governor. She said
that her commitment to the state and the university is unfazed.  “I’ve been working in this arena for 12 years,” Moore
said in a telephone interview. She is a 1975 graduate of the
university and a former Chase Bank managing director.  On March 24, after Haley had removed her as a trustee,
Moore pledged another $5 million for the school to help set up
an aerospace research institute. In a speech before hundreds of
students in Columbia, she spoke about the board, improving
educational opportunities in the state and leadership.  “Neither you nor I need to be on the board of trustees to
make this happen,” Moore said. “We need simply to hold our
leaders accountable and tell them we understand that they may
not help us, they may not be able to help us -- but we demand
that they not hurt us.”  Matching Funds  Moore, a South Carolina native, asked the state to match
the amount for the aerospace center.  Haley opposed making the allocation in the state budget,
and the House left it out of the spending plan it passed last
month. Observers including David Wilkins, a former House
speaker, say the limits of Haley’s office mean occupants have to
rely on alliances to get much done.  State law largely limits South Carolina’s governor to
making appointments and using the “bully pulpit” of the office
to accomplish their ends, with legislators holding most of the
cards, said Wilkins, now a lawyer in Greenville. He was the top
House lawmaker for 11 years and led Haley’s transition team.  “The governor must have a message that resonates, you have
to surround yourself with good people and you need people skills
to work with members of the General Assembly,” Wilkins said.
“Nikki is very articulate and she can get her message out.”  Questions Raised  Haley’s treatment of Moore has raised questions about the
governor’s willingness to listen to views that may diverge from
her own, said Representative Leon Howard, a Columbia Democrat
and former black caucus leader.  Moore backed Democrat Jim Rex, a former state school
superintendent, in his failed primary bid for governor, said
James Fields, executive director of the  Palmetto Institute , a
Columbia research group formed by Moore in 2002. State records
show she gave his campaign $2,000. Moore didn’t contribute to
Haley or her opponent, Senator Vincent Sheheen, a Camden
Democrat, in the general election, according to Fields.  “Darla Moore is a game changer and game changers don’t
come along very often,” said John Rainey, a lawyer in Anderson
and a Palmetto director. A Republican who led the state’s
economic development board for eight years, Rainey said Haley
showed arrogance in removing the university benefactor, in a
telephone interview last month.  “The intoxication of power has overwhelmed Nikki Haley
probably quicker than anyone I know,” said Rainey, who is
financing a review of Haley’s work history.  Open Government  Haley advocates for “open” government and has her cabinet
meetings recorded and posted to YouTube.com,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
video-sharing website. As a lawmaker, she pressed for a bill
requiring on-the-record legislative votes.  The governor offers the public a “report card” for
grading lawmakers on their actions on what she describes as
nonpartisan issues including state spending caps.  “The public has loved it,” Haley said in the telephone
interview. “The legislators have been gracious about it.”  The governor was born Jan. 20, 1972, as Nimrata Nikki
Randhawa to Indian immigrants in Bamberg, a town of about 3,400
people 60 miles (95 kilometers) south of Columbia. Her father
taught biology at Voorhees College in nearby  Denmark  and her
mother ran a gift shop which grew into a clothing business based
in Lexington, near the state capital. Haley served as its
finance chief after college.  Family Life  Called Nikki, which means “little one” in Hindi, she
attended  Orangeburg Preparatory School  and worked in the family
business, overseeing payroll and tax payments as a teenager. She
passed her first audit at 16.  She met her husband while earning an accounting degree at
Clemson, also a state-run school, and the couple married in 1996
at separate Sikh and United Methodist ceremonies. Her husband is
an equal-employment opportunity manager for the South Carolina
National Guard.  While U.S. Census Bureau data show blacks make up 28
percent of the state’s population, just one of her 14 cabinet
choices, Kela E. Thomas, is African-American. Thomas heads the
Probation, Parole and Pardon Services Department, which would be
combined with another agency under a bill that passed the House
last month.  “My goal is not to satisfy a quota,” Haley said. “It’s
to produce results for the state and that’s what I’m going to
do.”  Budget Progress  Along with fellow  Republican governors  across the U.S.,
Haley promotes trimming government by reducing payment rates for
service providers to recipients of Medicaid, the federally
subsidized health-insurance program for low-income residents.  South Carolina is among states facing projected deficits of
$112 billion in 2012, according to the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities , a nonprofit in  Washington  that focuses on
issues affecting lower-income Americans. A preliminary analysis
showed the state faced a gap of more than $800 million.  Lawmakers in South Carolina’s House passed a  budget  last
month that boosts general-revenue spending by 5.4 percent to
$5.36 billion. The Senate will take up the bill later this
month.  The state spends about $11,000 a year on each student in
its public schools, though only about half of its high school
students graduate in four years, Haley said. She favors
equalizing funding across rural and urban districts and supports
vouchers, charter schools, education tax credits and other
measures that empower parents, principals and teachers.  “I want as many options for parents as possible,” Haley
said.  Job Growth  South Carolina added about 14,100 jobs during the year
ended June 30, 2010, after losing 92,700 in the previous 12
months, according to the state’s annual  financial report . Its
 unemployment rate  was 10.2 percent in February, down from a
post-recession peak of 12.5 percent in January 2010 as its
manufacturers rebounded from the slump, said Frank Hefner, who
teaches economics at the College of Charleston.  “South Carolina’s issues are poverty and unemployment,”
Haley said. “The way we are going to fix it is through
education and jobs.”  Nimrata Nikki Randhawa Haley at a glance:  Born: Bamberg, South Carolina, Jan. 20, 1972 (age 39)  Party: Republican  Spouse: Michael Haley, 41, equal-employment opportunity manager
for the South Carolina National Guard  Children: Rena, age 12, and Nalin, age 9  Education: Bachelor of Science, accounting, Clemson University,
Clemson, South Carolina, 1994  Career: Accounting supervisor, FCR Corp., 1994-1996; chief
financial officer, Exotica International, 1996 to 2008; state
representative, 2005 to 2011  Noteworthy: First Indian-American and first woman to serve as South
Carolina governor; first South Asian elected to General
Assembly, 2004; former president, National Association of Women
Business Owners  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  