-- 
South African Manufacturing Expands as Interest Rate Cuts Boost Spending

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-04-07T12:35:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/south-african-manufacturing-expands-as-interest-rate-cuts-boost-spending.html
South African manufacturing
expanded at the fastest pace in seven months in February, rising
6 percent from a year earlier, as  interest rates  at a 30-year
low bolstered consumer spending and investment.  Growth accelerated from a revised 1.6 percent in January,
Pretoria-based  Statistics South Africa  said on its website
today. The median estimate of 14 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg was for expansion of 3.1 percent. In the month, output
rose a seasonally adjusted 2.3 percent.  The expansion “was broad-based, with higher production
volumes noted in nine of the 10 categories,” Nomvuyo Guma, a
strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s biggest lender,
said in e-mailed comments. “Production in the motor vehicles,
parts and accessories and other transport equipment sector was
once again the primary driver of growth.”  The  Reserve Bank  cut its benchmark interest rate three
times to 5.5 percent last year to help support the economy’s
recovery. The rebound in manufacturing, which accounts for 15
percent of gross domestic product, may strengthen further with
the Purchasing Managers Index, an indicator of factory output,
climbing to a 13-month high of 57.2 in March, Kagiso Securities
Ltd. said on April 1.  South African retail sales increased an annual 10.7 percent
in February, after gaining 10.6 percent in January, the Retailer
Liaison Committee, an industry group, said on March 18. Vehicle
sales rose 25 percent and 19 percent over the same period.  Slower growth in  Europe , which buys about a third of  South
Africa ’s manufactured exports, and a stronger rand have
undermined factory production. The currency has strengthened 41
percent against the dollar since the beginning of 2009.  The rand traded at 6.6999 at 2 p.m. in Johannesburg, up
from 6.7081 before the release of the manufacturing data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 