-- 
Corn Rises to Highest Price Since 2008 as Wet Weather Threatens Planting

-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 
2011-04-07T12:09:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/soybeans-gain-on-speculation-supply-to-tighten-as-farmers-switch-to-corn.html
Corn rose to the highest price since
2008 in  Chicago  on speculation wet weather and snow in some
parts of the U.S. will delay planting. Wheat headed for this
year’s largest weekly climb.  Rainfall in parts of the Midwest will “result in a
sluggish start to spring planting,” Accuweather.com said
yesterday. Snow still on the ground in parts of the U.S.
northern Plains is threatening to delay seeding, Macquarie Group
Ltd. analyst Alex Bos said in a report today.  “The U.S. Midwest has experienced relatively cool early
April temperatures, which have led to a slow start to the
planting season compared to last year,” he said. “The market
is very concerned about the potential for spring planting
delays, particularly in the northern Midwest, which still lies
under a blanket of snow.”  Corn for May delivery gained 6.25 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$7.6925 a bushel at 12:51 p.m. London time on the Chicago Board
of Trade. The grain reached $7.7325, the highest level since
July 3, 2008. Prices are up 22 percent this year as world demand
strengthens and stockpiles diminish.  Wheat advanced on speculation dry weather will curb
production in the southern Great Plains of the U.S., the world’s
largest exporter of the grain.  Extreme Drought  Parts of  Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and  Texas , the largest winter-
wheat-producing states in the U.S., are suffering from severe or
extreme drought, according to the  Drought Monitor website . Dry
weather from western Kansas through West Texas will persist
through April 12, Accuweather.com said.  “We are becoming increasingly concerned about production
potential in the U.S. hard-red winter wheat areas,” Bos said.
“Conditions remain too dry now during the critical growth
period as the crop emerges from winter dormancy.”  Wheat for July delivery gained 3.75 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to $8.22 a bushel. The grain is up 8.2 percent this week, on
course for the biggest advance since the week ended Dec. 3.
Prices surged 68 percent in the past year as  Russia  banned
exports after its worst drought in a half-century.  About 37 percent of the U.S. crop was good or excellent as
of April 3, down from 65 percent a year earlier, the Department
of Agriculture said this week. The reading was the lowest for
the date since 2002, USDA data show.  Milling wheat for May delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris slipped 0.1 percent to 250.25 euros ($357.45) a metric
ton.  Soybeans Climb  Soybeans advanced for a second day in Chicago on
speculation that smaller plantings in the U.S., the world’s
largest grower and exporter, may tighten global supply. The
oilseed for May delivery gained 2.75 cents, or 0.2 percent, to
$13.7925 a bushel.  Production of soybeans in the U.S. may fall to 3.169
billion bushels this year, Kyle Tapley, a senior agricultural
meteorologist at MDA EarthSat Weather, said yesterday. Last
year’s crop was estimated at 3.329 billion bushels, according to
the USDA.  The oilseed “is the real market leader,”  Wayne Gordon , an
analyst at Rabobank Groep NV, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Rishaad Salamat. “We will see lower production
of those commodities and we would see a further step up in
prices” as  China  sustained imports, he said.  Farmers in the U.S. will cut soybean plantings by 1 percent
to 76.609 million acres this year, the USDA said March 31.
Acreage is forecast to shrink as farmers switch to corn,
encouraged by higher profits, it said.  U.S. soybean stockpiles on Sept. 1, before the harvest, may
drop to 136 million bushels, according to a Bloomberg News
survey of 30 analysts. That’s down 2.9 percent from last month’s
estimate by the USDA, which will update its forecast on April 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  