-- 
Spain Debt Costs Fall at Auction After Portugal Seeks EU Financial Rescue

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   T o d d   W h i t e
-- 
2011-04-07T09:10:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/spain-debt-costs-fall-at-auction-after-portugal-seeks-eu-financial-rescue.html
Spain  sold 4.13 billion euros
($5.9 billion) of three-year bonds and its borrowing costs fell
after Portugal said it would seek a European Union bailout.  Spain sold the bonds at an average yield of 3.568 percent,
compared with 3.592 percent when it sold debt of similar
maturity on March 3, the Treasury said. Demand was 1.79 times
the amount offered, compared with 3.04 times on March 3, and the
amount sold compared with a maximum target of 4.5 billion euros.  The debt sale, hours after Portuguese Prime Minister  Jose Socrates  said he would ask the European Union for financial
help, was a test of investor sentiment as Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. said contagion from the sovereign debt crisis would stop at
 Portugal . Spain, in an attempt to distance itself from other so-
called peripheral nations, is implementing the deepest budget
cuts in at least three decades while trying to shore up savings
banks suffering a surge in bad loans.  “The fact that Portugal seeks help early reduces contagion
risk,” Mohit Kumar, a fixed-income strategist at Deutsche Bank
AG in  London , said by telephone. “The bonds have performed very
well; any decline in Spanish bonds in the near-term is likely to
come from their rich valuation rather than contagion concern.”  Yield Spread  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
was unchanged from yesterday after the sale at 180 basis points.
That compares with a euro-era record of 298 basis points on Nov.
30 after Ireland became the second euro nation after  Greece  to
seek a bailout. Spanish banking stocks rose, with  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  gaining 2 percent.  “We do not expect any other EMU sovereign to be in need of
financial assistance,” Francesco Garzarelli, Goldman Sachs’s
London-based chief interest-rate strategist, said in a report to
clients. He expects the spreads between the yields of  Italy ,
Spain,  Belgium  and those of AAA-rated economies like  Germany  to
“slowly compress,” he said.  Bank of Spain Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said
on March 5 that Portugal isn’t “very important” for Spanish
banks. Spain has foreign claims amounting to $85 billion in
Portugal, according to data from the Basel-based  Bank of
International Settlements . Portugal accounted for 9 percent of
Spain’s global exports in 2010, according to Spanish Industry
Ministry data.  Spain has overhauled labor and pension laws and pledged
further measures to make its economy more competitive. It aims
for a budget deficit of 6 percent of gross domestic product this
year, compared with 9 percent last year when the shortfall was
the third-largest in the euro region.  ‘Right Things’  “Contagion to Spain will be extremely limited,” Guillaume Menuet, senior European economist at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch, said in a telephone interview. “Spain has been doing all
the right things and ticking all the boxes.”  Spain also adopted austerity measures including public-wage
cuts earlier than Portugal’s Socialist Premier Socrates, who
resigned on March 23 after failing to get parliamentary approval
for his proposed budget cuts. Elections are scheduled in
Portugal for June 5, making the negotiation of any EU bailout
more difficult.  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero has
pledged to complete his four-year term. He announced on April 2
he won’t seek re-election, unleashing a leadership battle in the
ruling Socialist Party after regional elections on May 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Todd White said in Madrid at 
 twhite2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  