-- 
SRA International Sued by Investor Over $1.88 Billion Buyout

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T21:12:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/sra-international-sued-by-investor-over-1-88-billion-buyout-1-.html
SRA International Inc. (SRX) , a provider
of computer services to the U.S. government, was sued by an
investor seeking more money in a $1.88 billion takeover by
Providence Equity Partners LLC.  SRA founder Ernst Volgenau “opportunistically” planned to
take the company private at a bargain price, lawyers for the
Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority said today in
a complaint in Delaware Chancery Court in Wilmington.  SEPTA 
accused the company’s directors of approving the deal without a
reasonable independent process.  “In acting to protect the interests effectively of
Volgenau’s ‘family’, the SRA board did not effectively ‘shop’
the company to see if a better alternative was available,”
SEPTA said in its complaint.  SRA, based in Fairfax,  Virginia , announced April 1 that
Providence will pay $31.25 a share, a 10 percent premium to the
company’s closing price on March 31. SRA, which helps government
agencies in areas such as national security, disaster response
planning and information systems, started looking for a buyer in
October. Providence Equity last year hired Renato A. DiPentima,
the former chief executive officer of SRA, as a senior adviser.  Under the agreement, SRA, founded in 1978, will continue to
be led by its existing management team. Volgenau, owner of
21 percent of outstanding shares and 71 percent of  voting
rights , will continue as chairman, according to the complaint.  Closing Date  The deal is expected to close in the fiscal quarter
beginning July 1. SRA said the company has 30 days to solicit
other acquisition proposals.  Philadelphia-based SEPTA, the nation’s fifth-largest public
transportation system by ridership, is seeking to represent all
shareholders. It is seeking a court order barring the deal.  A SRA spokeswoman, Sheila S. Blackwell, didn’t immediately
return a phone call seeking comment.  The case is Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation
Authority v. Volgenau, CA6354,  Delaware  Chancery Court
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  