-- 
Sulzer to Buy Assa’s Waste-Water Pump Unit for $935 Million

-- B y   R i c h a r d   W e i s s   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 
2011-04-07T11:06:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/sulzer-to-buy-assa-s-waste-water-pump-unit-for-935-million.html
Sulzer AG (SUN)  agreed to buy a waste-
water pump business from  Assa Abloy AB (ASSAB)  for 858 million Swiss
francs ($935 million) to expand in a market that it estimates
will grow by more than 5 percent a year.  The Swiss engineering company will pay cash for Assa
Abloy’s Cardo Flow Solution business, which generated 463
million francs in sales and 67 million francs in earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization last year, Sulzer
said today in a  statement .  “With the intended acquisition of this strong supplier in
the attractive waste-water pumps market, Sulzer will be able to
benefit from the attractive long-term growth” of the industry,
Chief Executive Officer Ton Buechner said in the statement.  Water and waste-water operations will account for
16 percent of Sulzer’s yearly sales after the acquisition
compared with 5 percent last year, the Winterthur-based company
 said . The purchase will help Sulzer become one of the top three
players in waste-water pumps, where  ITT Corp. (ITT)  holds the lead,
Buechner said today on a conference call.  Demand for pumps is more stable in water-related industries
than in other markets, Sulzer said. Integration savings will be
quantified after completion of the deal, which is expected in
the second half of this year, it said.  Assa Abloy’s Disposals  The transaction is part of Stockholm-based Assa Abloy’s
disposal of parts of Cardo AB, which it acquired last year, that
don’t fit its focus on building-entrance systems. Assa Abloy is
the world’s largest maker of locks.  Sulzer rose as much as 6.2 percent to 152 francs, the
biggest intraday jump since July 8, and was up 3.9 percent as of
1:03 p.m. in Zurich trading. Assa Abloy gained 0.6 percent to
186.3 kronor in  Stockholm .  The acquisition of Cardo Flow Solutions, the largest ever
by Sulzer’s industrial business, will cost the Swiss company
35 million francs over three years, including spending on
integrating the unit, Buechner said on the call. Sulzer will
continue to look for targets to add to existing businesses, and
it can finance purchases of as much as “a couple of hundred
million” francs, the CEO said.  Sulzer is paying 12.8 times Ebitda in the transaction, less
than what industrial competitors paid in comparable deals,
Buechner said, without specifying other purchases.  The median Ebitda multiple for acquisitions announced
worldwide by manufacturing, construction and logistics companies
this year is 10.06, according to Bloomberg data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Weiss in Frankfurt at 
 rweiss5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 