-- 
Suzlon Energy Wins Cash to Pay Largest Wind-Turbine Debt: India Credit

-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 
2011-04-07T09:47:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/suzlon-energy-wins-cash-to-pay-largest-wind-turbine-debt-india-credit.html
Bonds of  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the
most indebted wind-turbine maker, are rallying as its buyout of
a German unit will improve access to cash and technology.  The yield on its 7.5 percent convertible notes due June
2012 dove to a 10-month low of 15.45 percent today, down from
18.06 percent yesterday and a record of 28.5 percent on March 7,
Nomura International prices show. The Indian company said this
week it will buy the 4.8 percent stake held by other investors
in its  Repower Systems AG (RPW) , letting it consolidate accounts and
get access to the Hamburg-based company’s $389 million of cash.  “This gives investors confidence they will be paid when
the bonds are redeemed next year,” Raj Kothari, a convertible
notes trader in  London  at Sun Global Investments Ltd., said by
telephone on April 5. “By buying out the minority shareholders
of Repower, Suzlon gets Repower’s technology and cash.”  India  is introducing policies to cut financing costs for
alternative energy as oil prices surge to a two-year high and
nuclear plants are reexamined following  Japan ’s atomic accident.
Those improve the outlook for the Ahmedabad, Gujarat-based
company, which is scheduled to start repaying part of its $2.7
billion debt in 2012 when a grace period with its lenders ends.  Suzlon, which sold $150 million of 5 percent $convertibles
on April 5, has $2.1 billion in loans and $629 million of
foreign-currency bonds that can be exchanged for shares,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Suzlon said in an e-
mail response to questions it plans to use the $150 million
raised from the  bond issue  “for a range of strategic
initiatives.”  Debt Overhang  Vestas Wind Systems A/S, the world’s largest wind-turbine
maker, has $931 million of debt, with $887 million due in 2014.
The yield on Vestas’s 600 million euros ($860.5 million) of
4.625 percent bonds due March 2015 dropped to 4.6 percent on
April 6 from 5.375 percent on Dec. 31, according to prices
provided by Rabobank International Prices.  “Suzlon’s debt overhang has been partially addressed and
if they can execute their order book, I see the yield on their
convertibles falling further,” said Atul Gharde, a Hong Kong-
based credit analyst at SJS Markets Ltd., who recommends buying
Suzlon’s debt. “With the Indian equity market rallying, I won’t
be surprised if more companies issue convertibles.”  India’s benchmark Sensitive Index rose 9.1 percent in
March, the first monthly increase this year. The $150 million
offering by Suzlon was the first convertible bond sale this year
by an Indian company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Quarterly Losses  Suzlon, with four straight quarterly losses, refinanced 100
billion rupees ($2.3 billion) in loans a year ago taken from
Citibank Inc., Deutsche Bank AG,  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) 
and other banks after the global recession dried up orders for
wind farms and squeezed margins for turbine sales.  The turbine manufacturer’s shares have declined 29 percent
in the past year in Mumbai trading, while the Bloomberg Wind
Energy Index has declined 0.1 percent. The index tracks 64 wind
power generators and suppliers globally, including Vestas,
Siemens AG and Alstom SA. Suzlon gained 7.7 percent yesterday.  Suzlon’s net debt of $2.2 billion is the most among the 10
biggest wind-turbine makers, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. That ranking excludes General Electric Co., which is a
diversified manufacturer and financier, and Enercon GmbH, which
is private and doesn’t disclose to regulators.  ‘Execution is Key’  “For Suzlon, execution is the key now,” said Tobias Bettkober, who helps manage the HAM Convertible Bond Fund and
Convertible Growth Fund at Holinger Asset Management AG in
Zurich, which bought Suzlon’s latest debt and owns the company’s
older convertibles. “On the credit side, I am more confident
Suzlon will do ok.”  Better finances at Indian companies including Suzlon may
increase demand for securities sold overseas, said SJS’s Gharde
said. Billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance Communications Ltd. (RCOM) ,
saddled with $7.2 billion of debt, said last month that it saved
5 billion rupees by borrowing from a group led by China
Development Bank Corp.  Indian companies, led by banks, sold the most foreign-
currency bonds in a first quarter since 2007 as central bank
Governor Duvvuri Subbarao raised borrowing costs eight times in
the past year to curb inflation.  Bank of India  and  Bank of Baroda  are among borrowers that
issued $3.4 billion of bonds overseas this year -- the most
since companies raised $4.9 billion in the first three months of
2007 -- obtaining lower yields than they’re paying on rupee
debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Rates  Benchmark Indian interest rates that rose to 6.75 percent
on March 17 are higher than  China ’s at 6.31 percent and compare
with the U.S. Federal Reserve’s range of zero to 0.25 percent.  The yield on India’s 10-year government bonds has slid 24
basis points from a 27-month high of 8.23 percent reached on
Jan. 17 as overseas investors poured a net $2.4 billion into
rupee debt this year. The rate on the 7.8 percent security due
May 2020 climbed one basis point to 7.99 percent today,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The difference in yields between Indian government debt and
U.S. Treasuries due in a decade has narrowed to 448 basis points
from a six-week high of 479 reached March 16. Rupee bonds have
returned 2.1 percent this year, the best performance in the
region after  Indonesia , according to 10 Asian local-currency
debt indexes tracked by HSBC Holdings Plc.  The extra yield investors demand to hold top-rated Indian
corporate bonds for five years instead of government debt has
shrunk to 117 basis points from an 18-month high of 132 on Feb.
23, Bloomberg data show.  Global funds’ debt investments in India contributed to the
rupee’s 1.2 percent advance this year. The currency gained 0.6
percent, the most since March 1, to 44.17 per dollar yesterday.  The cost of protecting the debt of government-owned  State
Bank  of India, which some investors perceive as a proxy for the
nation, has dropped 14 basis points in the past month to 164
basis points, according to CMA prices.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value for the
underlying securities should a borrower breach its debt
agreements. A basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract
protecting $10 million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  