-- 
Suzlon's Tanti Sees India Wind Capacity Limited at 30 Gigawatts in Decade

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T14:47:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/suzlon-chairman-sees-india-s-wind-capacity-not-above-30-gw-in-10-years.html
India ’s goal to install more  wind
energy  capacity will fall a third short of the target to a
maximum of 30 gigawatts because the transmission grid is
inadequate, the chairman of the country’s largest wind-turbine
maker said.  “I don’t believe India can deliver more than 30 gigawatts
over the next 10 years because of execution constraints and
green infrastructure barriers,”  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ’s Tulsi Tanti said, referring to limited transmission lines and
distribution networks to carry the power away from wind farms.  Suzlon has built 6,000 distribution substations and 4,000
kilometers (2,485 miles) of cables to service its own wind parks
to address the problem, Tanti said today at a conference in the
southern city of  Chennai .  Tanti’s projection would take India’s installed wind
capacity to 43 gigawatts by 2021 from  13 gigawatts  today, far
short of the country’s potential estimated by the Brussels-based
Global Wind Energy Council.  India could install 65.2 gigawatts of wind energy by 2020,
which would attract annual investment of about $10.4 billion,
the council said in a report issued today.  India’s wind power potential is higher than previously
estimated and could reach as much as 160.7 gigawatts by 2030 if
it were to develop offshore projects and revamp older farms with
more efficient turbines in a process called “repowering,” the
report said. Constraints include the poor electricity grid, the
need for clearer policies and incentives for repowering, it
said.  India surpassed the government’s target for wind
installations by 15 percent in the financial year ended March 31
with 2.3 gigawatts of new capacity, D.V. Giri, chairman of the
Indian Wind Turbine Manufacturers Association, said today.  The electricity grid threatens to begin stifling that
expansion as early as this year, T. Shivaraman, vice chairman of
Orient Green Power Co., said in an interview in Chennai today.
 Tamil Nadu , which has the most wind capacity in India, may be
the first to run out of transmission capacity to service
upcoming wind farms, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  