-- 
Suzlon’s New Turbines to Supply Record $1.2 Billion Caparo Energy Order

-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T17:17:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/suzlon-s-new-turbines-to-supply-record-1-2-billion-caparo-energy-order.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , India’s largest
wind-turbine maker, will supply its newest 2-megawatt turbines
to fulfill a record $1.2 billion order from U.K.-based Caparo
Energy Ltd.  Suzlon plans to begin producing the S95 turbine by the
fiscal second quarter followed by the S97 in the financial year
ending April 1, 2012, Chairman Tulsi Tanti said at a launch
event of the new series today in Chennai.  Indian farms are installing larger, more efficient turbines
of 2-megawatt capacity or greater as the number of sites
experiencing high wind speeds dwindle in the world’s fifth-
largest wind market.  Germany ’s  Siemens AG (SIE)  and Spain’s Gamesa
Corporacion Tecnologica SA also plan to manufacture and sell 2-
megawatt turbines in India.  The wind sector’s “center of gravity is shifting to
emerging markets” such as India,  Brazil  and  South Africa , which
require special turbines for sites with lower wind speeds, Tanti
said. The latest turbines have been designed with bigger rotor
diameters for those markets, he said.  They’ll be used at wind farms for Caparo, including in the
first 500 megawatts to be completed by next March, Lancy Tauro,
a Suzlon deputy general manager, said today in an interview.
Caparo placed a 1,000-megawatt order, Suzlon’s largest to date,
in January for new wind farms in Rajasthan, Gujarat and
Maharashtra states.  Kolkata-based Techno Electric Group has also agreed to buy
the new turbines for a 202-megawatt facility in Tamil Nadu
state, Ravindra Utgikar, Suzlon’s central marketing head, said
in an interview. The first 101 megawatts of that project is
scheduled to be completed by June and the remainder by December.  Last year, installations of 2-megawatt or greater turbines
outstripped those of less than 1-megawatt capacity for the first
time in  India , according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  