-- 
Swiss Stocks Gain After Portugal Asks for Bailout; UBS, Credit Suisse Rise

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-04-07T15:57:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/swiss-stocks-gain-after-portugal-asks-for-bailout-ubs-credit-suisse-rise.html
Swiss stocks advanced for a third
day, led by financial shares, after Portugal asked for a bailout
and the  European Central Bank  increased interest rates.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s two
biggest lenders, each climbed more than 1 percent.  Sulzer AG (SUN) 
jumped 2 percent after agreeing to buy a wastewater pump
business from Assa Abloy AB.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  of the country’s biggest and most
actively traded companies rose 0.4 percent to 6,465.57 at the
5:30 p.m. close in Zurich. The benchmark has gained 7.4 percent
since its 2011 low on March 16 as investors speculated that the
global economic recovery will withstand uprisings in north
Africa and the Middle East and the nuclear crisis following
 Japan ’s biggest earthquake on record. The broader Swiss
Performance Index added 0.3 percent to 5,892.11 today.  “The fact that  Portugal  is asking for a bailout is
reassuring,” said Yves Marcais, equity sales trader at Global
Equities in Paris. “But it’s not done yet. We’re in a delicate
phase.”  Portugal called for a bailout from the European Union after
the nation’s political crisis pushed borrowing costs to record
levels, forcing it to become the third euro-area country to
request a rescue.  The European Central Bank lifted the benchmark interest
rate to 1.25 percent from a record low of 1 percent, as
predicted by all 57 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  “It is essential that recent price developments do not
give rise to broad-based inflationary pressures over the medium
term,” ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said.  Japan’s New Earthquake  Swiss stocks pared some of their gains after a magnitude
7.1 earthquake hit 215 miles (345 kilometers) northeast of
Tokyo, resulting in warnings of a possible tsunami. The quake
was measured at a depth of about 25 miles and struck about 11:32
p.m. local time, the U.S. Geological Survey reported on its
website.  Credit Suisse,  Switzerland ’s second-largest lender,
advanced 2.1 percent to 41.01 Swiss francs and UBS, the
country’s biggest bank, gained 1.4 percent to 17.15 francs.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. included both lenders in a list of its top
picks in  Europe . The brokerage said that the details of
Commerzbank AG and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s capital increases
revealed yesterday have reduced systemic risk in the European
banking industry.  Sulzer Acquisition  Sulzer rallied 2 percent to 146 francs, its highest price
in more than three years. The company agreed to buy a wastewater
pump business from Assa Abloy for 858 million Swiss francs
($935.7 million) to expand in a market that it forecasts will
grow by more than 5 percent a year.  The Swiss company, the world’s second-largest maker of
pumps, will pay cash for Cardo Flow Solutions, which generated
463 million francs in sales and 67 million francs in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization last year,
the companies said in separate statements. Sulzer plans to
complete the deal in the second half of this year  Kudelski SA (KUD) , a maker of digital-television applications,
jumped 4.9 percent to 16.20 francs. The stock was initiated at
Kepler Capital Markets with a “buy” recommendation.  Novartis AG (NOVN)  added 1 percent to 51.15 francs. The drugmaker
agreed to sell the global rights to manufacture and market
Elidel skin cream to Meda AB for $420 million upfront. Novartis
will make an accounting gain of about $406 million from the
transaction. The company will recognize $345 million by the end
of 2011 and the remainder in the following two years. Elidel
treats mild to moderate atopic dermatitis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 