-- 
U.K. Stocks Decline as Japan Suffers New Earthquake; Cairn Energy Slides

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-04-07T16:30:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-k-stocks-fluctuate-lloyds-rbs-gain-as-cairn-vedanta-drop.html
U.K. stocks retreated in the last
hour of trading as  Japan  was hit by a 7.1-magnitude earthquake,
overshadowing gains in banks after Portugal sought a bailout
from the European Union.  Cairn Energy Plc (CNE)  and  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  slid after the
companies extended a deadline for a $9.6 billion deal to acquire
Cairn’s Indian unit. Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc
tumbled for a second day.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest
lender, rose 1 percent.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  lost 33.76, or 0.6 percent, to
6,007.37 at the 4:30 p.m. close in London after an earthquake
hit 215 miles (345 kilometers) northeast of Tokyo, resulting in
warnings of a possible tsunami. Stocks fluctuated earlier as the
Bank of England left interest rates at a record low for a 26th
month. The  FTSE All-Share Index (ASX)  and Ireland’s ISEQ Index also
dropped 0.6 percent.  Stocks gained for most of the day in Europe as Portugal’s
request for an EU bailout bolstered optimism the region’s
sovereign-debt crisis may be contained. A measure for bank
shares jumped 1.1 percent. Spain today sold three-year bonds at
lower borrowing costs than at its previous auction.  “The markets are taking it well because it clears some of
the uncertainty in the short term,”  Chris Turner , head of
strategy at Lombard Street Research Ltd. in London. “Longer
term we are still concerned about the sustainability of the
Spanish fiscal position given the lack of growth there.”  BOE, ECB Rates  BOE Governor Mervyn King today kept  interest rates 
unchanged as European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet
boosted borrowing costs for the first time in almost three years
and said the bank will continue to monitor inflation risks
“very closely.”  Cairn Energy declined 2.3 percent to 445.9 pence and
Vedanta dropped 2.6 percent to 2,431 pence. The two London-
listed companies pushed a deadline to May 20 from April 15 to
give more time for Vedanta to buy a majority stake in Cairn
India Ltd., after India referred the plan to a panel of
ministers.  Vedanta, a copper and aluminum company with no experience
in producing oil or natural gas, has waited almost eight months
to buy as much as 60 percent of Cairn’s Indian unit.  Bwin.Party, which was formed from last month’s combination
of PartyGaming Plc and Bwin Interactive Entertainment AG, fell
after German states’ prime ministers yesterday proposed a 16.7
percent tax on sports-betting stakes. The shares dropped 15
percent to 142 pence, extending the previous day’s 16 percent
decline.  HSBC Advances  HSBC rose 1 percent to 667.2 pence. Portuguese banks led
gains in the European industry today after the southern European
country became the third euro-region country to seek a rescue.  Banks were also helped by speculation that the government-
sponsored Independent Commission on Banking’s report next week
will be less tough than some investors feared.  “The market had been expecting a bailout to come in some
form given the looming refinancing hump but this at least
reduces the uncertainty,” Jim Reid and Colin Tan, strategists
at Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a report today.  Carpetright Plc (CPR)  declined 5.9 percent to 632 pence. The
U.K.’s biggest carpet retailer lowered its earnings outlook for
the second time in two months as stuttering consumer confidence
deters people from renovating their homes.  Halfords Group Plc (HFD)  slid 5.1 percent to 350 pence as the
retailer reported 13-week same-store sales fell 6.8 percent and
said cost pressures are increasing.  Hays Plc (HAS)  lost 4.5 percent to 114.1 pence. The U.K.’s
largest recruitment company said net fees in its home market
dropped 2 percent in the fiscal third-quarter, with fees for
public projects in Britain plunging 37 percent due to government
spending cuts.  The company sees “little evidence” that private-industry
hiring in the U.K. is offsetting government-spending cuts,
Finance Director Paul Venables said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move” with  Mark Barton .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  