-- 
U.K. Natural Gas for Next Month Declines as LNG Heads to Britain

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-04-07T16:32:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-k-natural-gas-for-next-month-declines-as-lng-heads-to-britain.html
U.K.  natural gas  for delivery next
month fell as two additional liquefied natural gas carriers
headed to Britain, supplementing supply in  Europe ’s biggest
market for the fuel.  Gas for May dropped as much as 1.4 percent as ship-tracking
data showed LNG tankers sailing to ports in south Wales and
northeast  England . Royal Dutch Shell Plc’s Ormen Lange natural-
gas field halted and pipeline exports from Britain to  Belgium 
reached their highest rate this year.  Gas for May declined as much as 0.85 pence to 60 pence,
according to broker prices compiled by Bloomberg. It was at 60.7
pence at 4:30 p.m. in London. That’s equal to $9.90 a million
British thermal units. A therm is 100,000 Btu.  “If we continue to see strong LNG takes throughout the
summer, with storage levels already above where they were last
year, then prices across the curve would need to drift down to
encourage higher levels of gas demand,” Barclays Plc analysts
including Kerri Maddock said in a research note today.  BG Group Plc’s Dragon LNG terminal in south  Wales  will
receive a cargo of the fuel on April 14, according to port data.
Excelerate Energy LLC’s Teesside Gasport in northeast England
will get a cargo from Cheniere Energy Inc.’s Sabine Pass
terminal in Louisiana on May 1, ship-tracking data show.  Power use at the Ormen Lange field in  Norway  fell to zero
megawatts from 200 megawatts due to  power failure  in the main
grid, according to a filing to the Nord Pool Spot AS exchange.  “Consumption will be ramped up to normal load during the
next 24 hours,” according to the statement.  Interconnector Exports  The pipeline between Britain and Belgium was exporting gas
to the continent at a rate of about 58 million cubic meters a
day, according to a website run by  Interconnector (U.K.) Ltd .,
owner of the link. That’s more than yesterday.  National Grid Plc forecast gas demand at 286 million cubic
meters in the 24 hours through 6 a.m. London time tomorrow.
That’s about 34 million less than the seasonal norm. The
nation’s pipelines will hold 344 million cubic meters of the
fuel at that time, 2 million less than at the start of today.  Same-day gas advanced 0.4 pence, or 0.7 percent, to 56.75
pence a therm. Baseload power for tomorrow fell 1 percent to
50.60 pounds a megawatt-hour. Baseload is delivered around the
clock. Gas for winter, the six months from October, slipped 0.85
pence, or 1.2 percent, to 72.9 pence a therm. U.K. baseload
power for winter lost 1 pence to 60.50 pounds a megawatt-hour.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in  London  at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  