-- 
U.K. House Prices Decline as Banks See Government Cuts Restraining Demand

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-07T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-k-house-prices-slip-0-1-on-lack-of-demand-acadametrics-says.html
U.K. house prices fell in March as
banks reported weakening demand, research company Acadametrics
Ltd. and LSL Property Services Plc said.  The average price of a home in  England  and Wales declined
0.1 percent from February to 222,146 pounds ($362,700), the
groups estimated in an e-mailed report in London today. From a
year earlier, values were unchanged.  Recent housing data have been mixed, with constrained bank
lending limiting demand and a lack of housing supply supporting
values. The  Bank of England  held its benchmark interest rate at
a record low of 0.5 percent yesterday, as the threat to the
recovery from the government’s budget squeeze takes precedence
over faster-that-targeted inflation.  “There is some evidence to suggest wider housing-market
conditions are easing a little,” Peter Williams, chairman of
Acadametrics, said in the report. “Lenders are now reporting a
lack of demand, which is probably unsurprising given very low
consumer confidence and concerns about the impact of forthcoming
expenditure cuts, joblessness and taxation rises.”  U.K mortgage approvals gained 4.3 percent to 48,979 last
month, the highest level since May, property-appraisal business
 e.surv Ltd. , part of LSL, said in a separate report today.
That’s still only about half the average level recorded over the
last decade.  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ’s Halifax unit earlier this week
reported that home values slipped 0.1 percent in March and said
uncertainty over the economy is “likely to constrain housing
demand, resulting in some modest downward pressure on prices.”
It sees  home prices  falling 2 percent this year.  London Gain  Out of the 10 regions Acadametrics and LSL track, all apart
from London and southeast England posted declines in the past
three months compared with a year earlier. Prices in the capital
rose 3.7 percent in the period.  “The static national figures conceal a much more dynamic
picture in the regions,” said David Newnes, estate agency
managing director of LSL. “The north of England and  Wales  have
seen significant price falls. Lenders are especially worried
about the effect government spending cuts will have on
unemployment in areas where a large proportion of workers are
employed by the state, and this is holding back demand.”  The number of transactions rose about 30 percent in March
from the previous month, driven by a seasonal upturn and wealthy
homebuyers bringing forward purchases valued at more than 1
million pounds to beat an increase in stamp duty this month,
Acadametrics and LSL said. From a year earlier, transactions
were 6 percent higher.  Acadametrics and LSL combine initial housing transaction
data from the U.K. Land Registry and results from other price
measures to produce an estimate for the most recent month. That
number is then revised in following months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  