-- 
Consumer Credit in U.S. Rises More Than Forecast on Higher Student Loans

-- B y   V i n c e n t   D e l   G i u d i c e
-- 
2011-04-07T19:27:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-s-consumer-credit-rises-more-than-forecast-on-student-loans.html
U.S. consumer borrowing rose for a
fifth straight month in February on an increase in non-revolving
credit as education loans expanded, the  Federal Reserve  reported
today.  Credit climbed $7.62 billion, the most since June 2008, to
$2.42 trillion after increasing a revised $4.45 billion in
January, the Fed said in Washington. The February figure
exceeded the median economist forecast of a $4.7 billion
increase in the measure of credit card debt and non-revolving
loans, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  The second consecutive drop in revolving credit, which
includes credit cards, indicates Americans remain reluctant to
take on more debt even as the economy and job market improve. In
addition, rising fuel and food prices are limiting people’s
buying power, raising the risk that  consumer spending , which
accounts for about 70 percent of the economy, will cool.  The increase in loans for education shows that “people are
going back to school to improve their skills,” said  Russell Price , senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit .
“We expect consumer spending to continue growing. The recovery
has the strength to continue.”  The total increase reflected an $8.2 billion non-seasonally
adjusted rise, to $349 billion, in the federal government
category of borrowing, which includes school loans.  Estimates from 33 economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged
from a $2 billion decrease to an $8 billion gain. The revised
January reading was lower than the initial figure of $5 billion.  Credit Breakdown  Revolving debt, which includes credit cards, decreased
$2.71 billion in February, according to the central bank’s
statistics. Non-revolving debt, including educational loans and
borrowing for autos and mobile homes, rose $10.3 billion for the
month, the Fed said.  While the Fed’s policy-setting Federal Open Market
Committee said March 15 that the economy is on a “firmer
footing,” New York Fed President  William Dudley , the panel’s
vice chairman, said April 1 that the U.S. recovery is “still
tenuous” and the jobless rate “much too high” at 8.8 percent.
The central bank is buying $600 billion of Treasuries through
June in an effort to boost growth with the benchmark rate close
to zero since December 2008.  Moody’s Investors Service raised its outlook for the credit
card industry to “stable” from “negative” last month, citing
a recovery in card issuers’ “asset quality and profitability in
an improved economic environment.”  Discover Profit  Discover Financial Services, benefiting from a rebound in
its card-lending business, reported a record fiscal first-
quarter profit and raised its dividend last month. Its write-
offs for loans deemed uncollectible fell to 5.8 percent in
February from 9.1 percent a year earlier.  In the  auto industry , U.S. vehicle sales rose 6.7 percent
in February to an annual rate of 13.4 million, the fastest since
August 2009, before slipping in March to 13.1 million.  General
Motors Co. (GM)  said sales rose 46 percent in February as discounts
and new financing options lured buyers. Ford Motor Co. and
Chrysler Group LLC also reported February gains.  “We continue to believe that the economy is going to
continue to stay on its current course of slow but steady
recovery,”  Don Johnson , vice president of U.S. sales for
General Motors, said during an April 1 conference call. “With
credit availability improving, continuing historically low
 interest rates  and pent-up demand, we continue to believe that
consumers are going to be returning to showrooms in even greater
numbers this year.”  The Fed’s report doesn’t track debt secured by real estate,
such as residential mortgages and home equity lines of credit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vincent Del Giudice in  Washington  at 
 vdelgiudice@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  