-- 
U.S. Stocks Drop on Japan Earthquake, Government Budget Impasse

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-07T20:53:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-s-stock-futures-are-little-changed-before-ecb-rate-meeting-cisco-rises.html
U.S. stocks fell, dragging the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  down from an almost three-year high, as
another earthquake shook Japan and a dispute over the federal
budget threatened to shut down the American government.  Caterpillar Inc., the largest maker of construction
equipment, slid 1 percent to lead declines in the Dow. The
 iShares MSCI Japan Index Fund (EWJ) , an exchange-traded security
tracking the nation’s equities, fell 0.8 percent.  Gap Inc. (GPS) 
dropped 1.5 percent as the largest U.S. apparel chain reported
a 10 percent slump in same-store sales.  KLA-Tencor Corp. (KLAC)  sank
4.6 percent after Citigroup Inc. advised selling rival
semiconductor-equipment maker  Lam Research Corp. (LRCX)   The S&P 500 lost 0.2 percent to 1,333.51 at 4 p.m. in New
York, after dropping as much as 0.7 percent. The Dow, which
climbed yesterday to the highest level since June 2008, slipped
17.26 points, or 0.1 percent, to 12,409.49 today.  “It’s body blow after body blow,” said  Matt McCormick , a
Cincinnati-based money manager at Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which
oversees $3.6 billion. “The market has faced a series of black
swans. We don’t know the impacts of the  Japan  situation. We
don’t know what will happen in the Middle East. In addition,
people are skittish because of all the budget discussion and
concern about the future of monetary and fiscal policies.”  Record Stimulus Measures  The S&P 500 has risen 6 percent in 2011 as government
stimulus measures and higher-than-estimated profits boosted
investors’ optimism. The benchmark gauge fell on April 5 as
minutes from the  Federal Reserve ’s last meeting spurred
speculation central bankers may begin removing record stimulus
measures enacted to ensure the economy recovered from recession.  A 7.1-magnitude earthquake spared the stricken Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear plant in Japan, although workers struggling to
cool radioactive fuel were evacuated, Tokyo Electric Power Co.
said based on its initial assessment. The aftershock was the
second-strongest since a record 9-magnitude earthquake and
tsunami on March 11. No unusual conditions were observed at the
plant afterward, the utility, known as Tepco, and Japan’s
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency said in statements.  Crude rose above $110 a barrel for the first time in 30
months as a fire burned at  Libya ’s Sarir field, bolstering
concern that unrest in North  Africa  and the Middle East will
spread, curbing shipments. NATO said forces loyal to  Muammar Qaddafi  caused a fire at the field, according to Al Arabiya
television. The conflict in Libya is currently in a stalemate,
said Army General Carter Ham, the U.S. commander for Africa.  Stopgap Spending Bill  The U.S. House approved a stopgap spending bill to keep the
government open through next week, although President Barack Obama said he would veto the measure and a shutdown still looms.
The measure, passed 247-181, would cut another $12 billion in
spending this year and fund the Pentagon at current levels
through Sept. 30. Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, called the bill a “non-starter.”  House Speaker John Boehner said there was no agreement on a
budget reached at a White House meeting with President Obama and
Senate Majority Leader Reid. “We’re not there yet,” Boehner,
an Ohio Republican, said outside the White House. Reid, a Nevada
Democrat, said he was “disappointed” that negotiations haven’t
resolved the issue.  A failure by Congress to extend the government’s spending
authority, which expires tomorrow, would force the closure of
national parks, monuments and museums. Federal agencies -- such
as the National Labor Relations Board -- that don’t protect
lives, property or national security also would be shuttered.  Higher Rates  Stock futures fell before the open of exchanges as European
Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet said today’s
interest-rate increase is not necessarily the start of a series.
“We did not decide that it was the first of a series of
interest-rate increases,” Trichet said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt  after the ECB raised its benchmark rate to 1.25
percent from a record low of 1 percent.  The  S&P 500  has closed every session this month less than 1
percent below its 2011 high of 1,343.01 set on Feb. 18, causing
investors to question whether the index will set a new high or
head lower in a so-called double top.  “The big question with the indexes is, will this be a
double top or not?” said Kurt Kinker, chief market analyst at
Mirus Futures in  Chicago . “We’re holding these 1,330s in the
S&Ps. And whether they can break out above the February highs or
whether they’ll head south, that’s the question.”  Gap Slumps  Gap slumped 1.5 percent to $22.72. Same-store sales dropped
10 percent, compared with the estimated decline of 7.3 percent.
Last month’s earthquake and tsunami in Japan, where the retailer
has more than 150 stores, cut into results, Chief Executive
Officer Glenn Murphy said in a statement.  KLA-Tencor fell the most in the S&P 500, sinking 4.6
percent to $44.06. Lam Research dropped 5 percent to $53.52. The
maker of chip-manufacturing equipment may disappoint investors
when reporting earnings for the current quarter as demand slows,
Citigroup wrote in a note, in which it added the idea of selling
the shares its Top Picks Live! list.  Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. (BBBY)  gained 10 percent to $54.55. The
home furnishings retailer forecast annual earnings of $3.38 to
$3.53 a share. That compares with the average analyst projection
of $3.33, Bloomberg data show.  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  rose 3.8 percent to $77.82. The
largest U.S. warehouse-club chain reported total comparable
sales rose 13 percent in March, beating the 7.4 percent
estimate.  Jobless Claims  Fewer Americans filed first-time claims for  unemployment
insurance  last week. Applications for jobless benefits fell
10,000 in the week ended April 2 to 382,000, the fewest since
Feb. 26, Labor Department figures showed. Economists projected
claims would be little changed at 385,000, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The number of people
on unemployment benefit rolls and those collecting extended
payments decreased.  Consumer confidence  in the U.S. rose for a second
consecutive week as an improving job market helped ease the
burden of higher fuel costs. The Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort
Index  climbed to minus 44.5 in the period ended April 3 from
minus 46.9 the prior week. A measure of Americans’ views of
their own finances increased to the second-highest level since
January 2010, while a gauge of perceptions of the economy
advanced from a two-year low.  “The economy is certainly improving,” said  Michael Nasto ,
senior trader at U.S. Global Investors Inc., which manages about
$3 billion in San Antonio. “There’s a glimmer of hope that the
jobs market is getting better. The consumer seems to be back.
The two wild cards will be monetary and fiscal policies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  