-- 
U.S. Said to Consider Arming Libyan Rebels While Pushing for Qaddafi Exile

-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 
2011-04-07T03:38:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-s-said-to-consider-arming-libyan-rebels-while-pushing-for-qaddafi-exile.html
The U.S. and Italy are each
considering arming Libyan opposition forces to speed the ouster
of  Muammar Qaddafi , according to an official involved in closed-
door talks between Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and
Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini in Washington
yesterday.  Frattini also told Clinton that the African Union, whose
commission chairman, Jean Ping, met with Frattini in  Rome  on
April 5, has promised to send a delegation to Tripoli in coming
days to try to persuade Qaddafi to leave the country, according
to the official, who wasn’t authorized to comment on the private
discussions at the State Department.  Clinton floated the question of whether Italy would be
willing to send its forces to help train or assist Libyan rebels
in combat, an option that Frattini rejected as unrealistic given
sensitivities over  Italy ’s role as Libya’s former colonial
ruler, the official said.  State Department press officers offered no rundown of what
was discussed in the meeting, and a spokesman did not respond to
an e-mail request for comment last night. Clinton told reporters
after the meeting that she and Frattini had discussed how every
nation involved can “do more to help the opposition make very
fast progress.”  The rebels who came together two months ago to revolt
against Qaddafi’s rule “were not soldiers” or trained military
forces, she said. “They were doctors and lawyers and university
professors and economists and young men who were students, and
they are being attacked by mercenaries, by ruthless forces.”  ‘Buying Time’  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization airstrikes on
Qaddafi’s forces, she said, are “buying time, buying space”
for the rebels.  The Italian government this week joined France and Qatar in
recognizing the  Interim Transitional National Council , based in
the rebel stronghold of Benghazi, as the legitimate government
of  Libya . The U.S., which has dispatched special envoy Chris
Stevens to Benghazi to learn more about the opposition, hasn’t
recognized the rebels as the new Libyan government.  Neither the U.S. nor Italy has decided yet whether or how
to supply rebels with weapons, Clinton and Frattini said in
their private meeting, according to the official.  NATO foreign ministers are likely to discuss arming the
rebels at a meeting April 14-15 in Berlin. Foreign ministers
from the Libya “contact group,” which includes the U.S.,
 Canada , European nations,  Persian Gulf states , the  Arab League 
and the African Union, are expected to meet in Qatar next week.  Frattini said he and Clinton discussed efforts to forge a
deal for Qaddafi to go into exile, though he declined to specify
where Qaddafi might seek refuge or whether he would be subject
to prosecution.  ‘Clear Message’  “If we want to succeed, we shouldn’t at this stage fill in
details about potential destinations, countries of destination,
possibilities, options, and so on,” he said, adding that he
hoped an  African Union  delegation will “send a very clear
message” that Qaddafi and his family must leave Libya.  In an interview yesterday at Bloomberg’s Washington bureau,
 Turkey ’s Deputy Prime Minister Bulent Arinc said his nation, a
NATO member, sees the absence of a clear leader and a distinct
ideology uniting the Libyan opposition as an impediment to
governing the country after the ouster of Qaddafi.  Were there “a specific single leader and a specific
ideology that drives the opposition movements, then it might be
easier,” Arinc said.  Clinton told reporters that a new letter sent by Qaddafi to
President  Barack Obama  broke no new ground toward resolving the
impasse in Libya. White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said
the letter was “not the first” sent by Qaddafi to Obama.  ‘Give Up Power’  “Mr. Qaddafi knows what he must do,” Clinton said,
listing a cease-fire, a withdrawal of government forces and a
decision to give up power and leave Libya as conditions for a
resolution to the military conflict.  Clinton praised Italy’s role in the military and
humanitarian operations in Libya, and told reporters she has
“full confidence” in NATO’s leadership of the allied strikes
against Qaddafi.  Abdel Fattah Younes, head of the rebel army, had complained
at a press conference April 5 in Benghazi that NATO was slow
“in responding to our instructions” on targets and failed to
“give us what we need.” Younes was particularly critical of
the 28-member alliance for failing to stop Qaddafi’s weeks-long
siege of  Misrata , the rebel-held western city near Tripoli.  Clinton said Italy has been “bearing more than its share”
of the influx of immigrants to  Europe  fleeing the crises in
North Africa, especially  Tunisia , where an uprising ousted
President Zine Abidine Ben Ali on Jan. 14.  Frattini said allies must work together “to ensure the
peaceful outcomes” of revolutions in Tunisia and  Egypt . “The
more democracy comes, the more development is stable. If there
is no democracy, there is no stability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira Lakshmanan in  Washington  at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  