-- 
Korea Auto Exports May Top U.S. Imports Under Pact, ITC Says

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 
2011-04-07T21:54:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-s-auto-exports-to-south-korea-may-jump-194-million-itc-says.html
Automobile imports from  South Korea 
may increase by almost $1 billion, more than three times the
gain for U.S. exports, under a free-trade agreement being
considered by both nations, an independent government study
concluded.  Even with revisions to the vehicle provisions negotiated by
President  Barack Obama , imports of vehicles and auto parts from
Korea would jump $907 million under the accord, and exports
increase $194 million, according to the study released today by
the U.S. International Trade Commission. Korea’s pledge to end
regulatory barriers may add $66 million more in U.S. exports,
the agency said.  Exports to Korea would expand 54 percent compared with 11
percent for shipments from Korea, reflecting an already lopsided
trading relationship.  Korea  sent 561,626 passenger vehicles to
the U.S. last year, while U.S. carmakers shipped 13,044
vehicles, according to the agency’s report. The U.S. auto market
is also almost 10 times as big as Korea’s.  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee who requested the
report, said the findings underscore the need for Congress to
approve the deal.  “This report shows how effective our trade agreements can
be in removing both tariff and non-tariff barriers to U.S.
exports,” Camp said in a statement.  The government agency, which is independent of the Obama
administration, said that exemptions from Korea environmental
regulations granted by the Koreans in negotiations with Obama
may help increase exports from  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and U.S.
carmakers.  Exports and imports of autos are lower than forecast in a
2007 report, reflecting a drop in trade between the two nations
following the financial crisis in late 2008. The percentage
change is in the same range, the ITC report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  