-- 
U.S. Wins Partial Victory From Judge Who Scrapped Drill Ban

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-04-07T02:53:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-s-wins-partial-victory-from-judge-in-new-orleans-who-scrapped-drill-ban.html
A federal judge in  New Orleans 
rejected oil industry arguments that the U.S. government
exceeded its authority by imposing new permitting requirements
on developmental drilling in the western  Gulf of Mexico .  U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman, who scrapped the Obama
Administration’s original deep-water drilling moratorium as
arbitrary and overly broad, today sided with the government,
ruling that federal law gives regulators “broad authority” to
oversee offshore drilling.  “Ultimately, then, an agency’s interpretation is
permissible so long as it is reasonable,” Feldman said in a
decision that allows other industry challenges to the agency’s
drilling policy to continue.  Ensco Offshore Co., a unit of London-based  Ensco Plc (ESV) , along
with other oil industry companies, sued Interior Secretary
Kenneth Salazar last year over the agency’s decision to require
the drilling permits after the Deepwater Horizon rig sank while
drilling a well off the Louisiana coast for  BP Plc (BP/)  last April.  The companies complained that, in the wake of the Gulf oil
spill, regulators imposed new permit requirements on development
and production wells, which involve drilling additional holes
into previously discovered underground reservoirs. Before the
spill, such permits and production plans were only required for
exploratory, or initial, wells or for drilling in waters near
 Florida .  Review Delays  Feldman said he’ll continue to hear claims that regulators
are intentionally delaying the industry’s return to deep-water
drilling by rescinding previously approved permits, imposing new
permit requirements, and “taking much longer to review and
approve permit applications than in the past.”  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on Feldman’s ruling. Sean O’Neill, an Ensco
spokesman, didn’t immediately return a phone message after
regular business hours.  Today’s ruling doesn’t affect a separate issue in the
complex legal challenge, in which Feldman ordered regulators to
act on seven stalled deep-water drilling permits within 30 days.
Regulators appealed that order, and the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in
New Orleans granted an emergency stay.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 