-- 
U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for April 6 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-07T18:30:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-s-energy-department-natural-gas-update-for-april-6-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly natural gas update
as released by the U.S. Department of Energy in Washington D.C.:  Continuing last week’s net decline, the  Henry Hub  price this week fell 8 cents
from $4.25 per million Btu (MMBtu) on Wednesday, March 30, to $4.17 per MMBtu on
Wednesday, April 6.  At the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the price of the near-month (May 2011)
contract fell from $4.355 per MMBtu to $4.146 per MMBtu.  Working natural gas in storage fell to 1,579 billion cubic feet (Bcf) as of
Friday, April 1, according to EIA’s Weekly Natural Gas Storage Report. The natural
gas rotary rig count, as reported by Baker Hughes Incorporated, rose by 11 to 891.  A new study released by EIA estimated technically recoverable shale natural gas
resources in the 14 regions studied outside of the  United States  at 5,760 trillion
cubic feet (Tcf).  Prices  Natural gas prices fell by moderate amounts at most market locations across the
country. The price of the Henry Hub fell 7 cents to end the report week at $4.17
per MMBtu. Temperatures were somewhat colder than normal in much of the Eastern
United States, though warmer than normal in most areas west of the  Mississippi
River . The largest decline in prices occurred at Transcontinental Pipeline’s Zone
6 pricing point for delivery into  New York City , where prices fell on the week
from $4.87 per MMBtu to $4.59 per MMBtu. However, at Zone 6, prices closed at
$4.98 per MMBtu after trading last Thursday. A number of other pricing points in
the Northeast United States jumped above $5 on Friday, somewhat surprisingly, as
Northeast temperatures warmed up slightly (though mostly remained in the 40s)
going into the weekend.  Supply fell slightly during the week, as production remained flat and both imports
from Canada and LNG fell. Total supply dropped 0.7 percent from the previous week,
but remains 4 percent higher than the level for the comparable week last year.
Consumption also dropped by 16 percent week over last week, with the bulk of the
decline coming from the residential and commercial sectors. Residential and
commercial consumption was 79 percent greater than the same week last year;
however, during the comparable week last year average temperatures were much
warmer than normal, according to the  National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration ’s Climate Prediction Center. Though supply remained relatively flat
from last week, production hit a daily record at 64.5 Bcf on Thursday, March 31.  U.S. exports to  Mexico  have increased since the March earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan . The earthquake and tsunami damaged Japan’s nuclear generation capacity,
creating a need for more natural gas for power generation. According to BENTEK
Energy Services, LLC, LNG cargoes going to Sempra’s Costa Azul LNG import terminal
on the coast of  Baja California , Mexico, have been diverted to Japan. As a result,
the United States has boosted its pipeline exports to Mexico, according to BENTEK.  Future prices followed a pattern similar to that of spot prices during the report
week. At the NYMEX, the price of the near month contract fell by 20.9 cents, from
$4.355 per MMBtu to $4.146 per MMBtu. The price of the 12-month strip (the average
of the 12 futures contracts from May 2011 to April 2012) fell from $4.724 per
MMBtu last week to $4.569 per MMBtu yesterday.  Storage  Working natural gas in storage fell to 1,579 Bcf as of Friday, April 1, according
to EIA’s WNGSR  http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/oog/info/ngw/storagefig.html . After a 45-
Bcf net withdrawal, stocks are now just 10 Bcf above the 5-year average, down from
68 Bcf last week. The net withdrawal contrasts with the first net injection of the
year, which occurred during the previous week. The week also reverses a six week
trend of lower draws or higher injections than average.  The net withdrawal was the result of a major draw in the East Region, partially
offset by small injections in the West and Producing Regions. The 52 Bcf net
withdrawal in the East Region was partly offset by net injections of 5 Bcf and 2
Bcf in the West and Producing Regions respectively. While draws are not unusual
for the East region at this time of year, but the size of the draw was much larger
than the average draw of just 4 Bcf. Unusually cold weather through the entire
East Region is largely responsible.  Temperatures in the lower 48 States during the week ending March 31 were 5.9
degrees cooler than normal and 6.6 degrees cooler than last year. The  National
Weather Service ’s degree-day data show that the temperature in the lower 48 States
last week averaged 42.1 degrees, a full 7.0 degrees colder than last week
 http://tonto.eia.doe.gov/oog/info/ngw/maps.html . Every region saw colder than
normal weather with the exception of the Mountain Region which was nearly equal to
normal. The East North Central region was the coldest relative to normal, with
temperatures averaging 11.0 degrees colder and nearly 47 percent more heating
degrees than normal.  EIA Study Reports Abundant International Shale Resources. EIA on April 5 released
World Shale Gas Resources: An Initial Assessment of 14 Regions Outside the United
States, a study examining 48 shale basins in 32 countries that were selected for
relative near-term promise and the availability of geologic data. According to the
assessment, the international shale resource base is vast, with an initial
estimate of technically recoverable resources in the areas of the 32 countries in
the 14 regions studied (not including the United States) of 5,760 trillion cubic
feet (Tcf). In the United States, there are 862 Tcf of technically recoverable
shale gas resources. Shale gas has taken on greater importance in the United
States in recent years, making up 23 percent of total production in 2010. The
study assesses whether other countries have similar opportunities to develop shale
resources. Two groups can benefit most from expanded shale production, according
to EIA. These groups are countries that currently depend heavily on imports but
have ample shale resources, and countries that already produce large amounts of
natural gas and have shale resources. The study excluded the following: countries
outside of the 32 studied (excluded countries and areas include  Russia  and the
Middle East, which have vast conventional natural gas resources); some shale
basins in the 32 countries studied, due to lack of available data; and offshore
resources. EIA sponsored Advanced Resources International, Inc. to complete the
study.  Colorado State Releases 2011 Hurricane Forecast. In their April 6 forecast,
 Colorado State University  (CSU) researchers predicted that the 2011  hurricane
season  will have significantly more activity than the average 1950-2000 season.
The current forecast is an update to a December 2010 forecast, and while still
predicting a more active than normal season, the April update calls for a slightly
less active season than the December forecast did. The researchers predicted 9
hurricanes (compared to an average of 5.9) and 16 named storms (compared to an
average of 9.6). The probability for one major hurricane (category 3, 4, or 5)
tracking into the Caribbean is 61 percent, compared to an average probability of
42 percent. CSU researchers predicted the probability for a major hurricane making
landfall on the  Gulf Coast  (from the  Florida Panhandle  to Brownsville,  Texas ) is
47 percent, compared to an average of 30 percent. The forecast is available here:
 http://hurricane.atmos.colostate.edu/forecasts/2011/april2011/apr2011.pdf   Natural Gas Transportation Update  Florida Gas Transmission Company, LLC expects to continue pipeline maintenance
upstream of Station 8 until April 14. During this maintenance, Florida Gas
Transmission will schedule up to 775,000 MMBtu per day, a reduction from normal
operations when 1,075,000 MMBtu per day is scheduled. Additionally, Florida Gas
Transmission will start maintenance on the units at their Vinton Interconnect with
Transcontinental Pipeline in Zone 1 on April 15. This work is expected to be
completed by the end of April. During that time, Florida Gas Transmission will
schedule approximately 40,000 MMBtu per day, a reduction of 80,000 MMBtu scheduled
during normal operations.  Gulf South Pipeline Company, LC began pigging maintenance on its 42-inch expansion
on April 6. This is the first of three planned pigging maintenance projects, is
expected to last until April 13, and will restrict receipts in Area 16 (Carthage)
to 750 million cubic feet (MMcf) per day from its 30-day average near 1.0 Bcf per
day, according to BENTEK Energy. This maintenance could also potentially impact
over 0.5 Bcf per day of production, as seven meters downstream of the Carthage
Junction Compressor Station will be shut-in. The second and third phases of this
planned maintenance will occur from April 19 through April 21, and end with a 12-
hour maintenance period on April 26.  The first of four planned maintenance projects started April 4 on the Northern
Border Pipeline. The work on Compressor Station 9 (downstream of the Bison
interconnect, south of Morton, ND) has an estimated end date of April 15, and will
limit capacity to approximately 2,156 MMcf per day through Glen During - a
reduction of approximately 271 MMcf per day. The final three maintenance projects
are expected to take place during the last half of April and through May.  To contact the reporter on this story: Stephen Rose in Washington at   srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  