-- 
U.S. Housing Agency Eases Rule for Spouses of Deceased Borrowers

-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T22:55:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-s-housing-agency-eases-rule-for-spouses-of-deceased-borrowers.html
The U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development has rescinded a 2008 rule that forced some
surviving spouses of reverse-mortgage borrowers to choose
between losing their homes or paying more than the properties
were worth to stay in them.  The agency, which is being sued in federal court by a
widow and two widowers of reverse-mortgage borrowers facing
foreclosure, notified the plaintiffs this week that they were
ending a policy that required surviving spouses to pay the full
mortgage balance to keep their homes even if the amount exceeded
the value of the property. The agency said it would issue more
guidance on the matter in the future.  The AARP, which is representing the plaintiffs, praised the
policy change but said the lawsuit would continue on other
grounds.  “This is definitely going in the right direction,” said
Jean Constantine-Davis, a senior attorney with AARP Foundation
Litigation.  Davis said the plaintiffs are still seeking regulatory
changes to ensure that surviving spouses of reverse-mortgage
borrowers have a right to stay in their homes even if their
names were not on the deed.  Reverse mortgages are available only to homeowners aged 62
or older. In some cases, when one spouse is younger than 62,
only the older spouse’s name will appear on the reverse-mortgage
documents.  Right to Stay  “We think the surviving spouses shouldn’t be displaced,”
Constantine-Davis said. “They have the right to stay there.”  Brian Sullivan , a spokesman for HUD, said the policy change
was unrelated to the lawsuit.  “We recognized there was some confusion on the issue, and
we wanted to make sure that the ultimate sale of the property is
market-based and reflects the property’s real value,” he said.  Reverse-mortgage loans pay out a home’s equity to the
homeowner, often in installments, and are usually repaid when
the borrower dies or moves out of the house. Borrowers are
considered in arrears if they don’t keep current on their
property taxes and insurance.  Prior to December 2008, HUD rules stated that a borrower or
heir would never owe more than the home was worth at the time of
repayment, according to the lawsuit.  The plaintiffs, who aren’t on the deeds of their homes, are
 Robert Bennett , 69, of Annapolis,  Maryland ; Leila Joseph, 77, of
 Brooklyn ,  New York ; and Delores Moore, 79, of Covington,
 Indiana .  The case is Bennett v. Donovan, 11-cv-00498, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 Cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  