-- 
U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending April 5 (Text)

-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-07T14:12:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-april-5-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  The discussion in the Looking Ahead section is simply a
description of what the official national guidance from the
National Weather Service (NWS) National Centers for
Environmental Prediction is depicting for current areas of
dryness and drought. The NWS forecast products utilized include
the HPC 5-day QPF and 5-day Mean Temperature progs, the 6-10 Day
Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability, and the
8-14 Day Outlooks of Temperature and Precipitation Probability,
valid as of late Wednesday afternoon of the USDM release week.
The NWS forecast web page used for this section is:
 http://www.cpc.ncep.noaa.gov/products/forecasts/ .  Overview: Last week proved to be cooler than normal in the East
(with an exception being Florida, which was above normal) while
much of the West was warmer than normal. It was dry across much
of the West as well. The only drought-affected region seeing
much in the way of precipitation was the Southeast. In general,
this has led to more in the way of intensification rather than
improvements as we turn our attention toward spring and all the
planting activity and watering needs that will follow as
nature’s furnace turns over to the heat mode.  Midwest: Cooler weather and some scattered rains still dominated
most of the region, and the drought depiction remains unchanged
across northern  Illinois  and up into  Michigan  and the Upper
Peninsula. The eastern half of the region is in better shape
than the western reaches at this point and the better rains of
last week (1 to 2 inches or more) fell across the southern
portions of Illinois and Ohio. Longer-term Water Year deficits
(Oct. 1 to date) leave some concern for deeper soil moisture
reserves (even in the D-free areas of the region) unless spring
rains can erase them altogether, thus the Abnormally Dry (D0 H)
and Moderate (D1 H) designations.  The Mid-Atlantic: Generally modest (0.5 to 1.5 inches) rains and
unseasonably cooler temperatures (4 to 8 degrees below normal)
were widespread across the Mid-Atlantic, with the better amounts
falling in the western highland country of the Carolinas and
 Virginia . This led to some minor reduction of Abnormally Dry to
Moderate (D0-D1) along the western flank of the drought within
the Carolinas. It also means there is no more Severe Drought
(D2) within central  North Carolina , based on reports from the
N.C. Drought Monitoring Task Force this week. The area still
bears watching going into the warm season because precipitation
is 50-70% of normal since October 1 across most of the region.  Southeast: Last week brought widespread beneficial rains of 1 to
3 inches or more across a large portion of the region from
 Mississippi  to  Georgia  and into central Florida. This led to
more improvements in the drought depiction this week, with 1-
category improvements noted in central Mississippi, northern and
east-central  Alabama , southern Georgia and northern and central
 Florida . Notably, Extreme Drought (D3) was removed from Alabama
and northeast Florida. A large swath of improvement is also
marked across central Florida where heavy rains (3 to 5 inches
or more) continued the improvement trend seen here in recent
weeks. Cooler temperatures accompanied the rains (lowering fire
risk) across Mississippi, Alabama and Georgia while most of
Florida experienced above-normal readings. In general, the
region is seeing a trend of improvement over the past month in
soil moisture (observed and modeled) and USGS streamflow levels
from the north and west down to the south and east within the
region.  Delta: Last week’s weather brought a mixed bag to the Delta
region, with cooler temperatures to the north and above-normal
temperatures in the southern/coastal reaches. Precipitation was
a bit spottier as well with the heaviest rains falling over the
Severe Drought (D2) parishes of southeastern  Louisiana . This has
led to a removal of the D2 there but most of western and
northern Louisiana remains in the grips of a Severe (D2) to
Extreme (D3) drought. Both year-to-date and water year-to-date
(since October 1) precipitation totals are running in the 50-70%
of normal range after a lackluster tropical storm season last
year.  Southern Plains: This region was again marked by hot, windy
conditions, which served to continue fanning several fires of
late. Wheat conditions are generally dismal and significant
precipitation will be needed to help pasture and rangeland
recover along with reducing the risk of fire as we head into the
hot season. The only improvement of note in the region was a
slight trimming of the D3 in north-central  Texas  around the
Dallas area where some good rains were reported. Elsewhere in
Texas, the story is much worse as widespread advancement is
noted in Severe (D2) and Extreme (D3) drought across the Texas
Panhandle and western, southeastern, and deep southern counties
along the Rio Grande and down to Brownsville.  To the north in  Oklahoma , it is pretty much the same story,
another verse, with blistering temperatures, fires, poor wheat
conditions and not much relief on the horizon. Severe Drought
(D2) remains over a good portion of the state, but this week
leads to more in the way of Extreme Drought (D3) across the
southern and southwestern counties of Oklahoma.  The first USDA soil moisture reports are out and they don?t
paint a pretty picture, with 86% of Oklahoma showing short or
very short topsoil moisture conditions. Texas is reporting 90%
short/very short as well. Other statistics provided by the
 National Weather Service  (Austin/San Antonio WFO) show that Del
Rio has reported only 0.31 inches of precipitation for October-
March, the 2nd driest since 1906. Austin reported its 5th driest
October-March since 1856 and San Antonio came in as the 12th
driest October-March since 1871.  Central Plains: Much of the Central Plains saw a nice warm-up,
but it was also predominantly dry. This recent, persistent dry
pattern has led to more advancement of Abnormally Dry (D0)
conditions across eastern Nebraska and northeastern  Kansas 
leaking into southwestern  Iowa  and northwestern Missouri as
well. Additionally, a lobe of Moderate Drought (D1) has now
moved into central Nebraska from north central Kansas. Winter
wheat conditions and sub-surface soil moisture recharge concerns
lead the list heading into planting season in the next month or
so.  The West: The heat is on in the Southwest after some
unseasonably cooler weather recently, with readings some 6-10
degrees or more above normal last week. That and no
precipitation made it feel like summer as Extreme Drought (D3)
has now spread across much of southern New Mexico this week. D0-
D1 have also pushed northward up into the Four Corners region as
soil moisture and streamflow levels have fallen behind as of
late. In northern  Colorado , fires are a concern as well and
there is a slight push north of D2 in and around the Ft. Collins
region and to the east toward Sterling. Farther north, a
favorable wet pattern leads to some trimming of the Abnormally
Dry (D0) regions in both the southwest and northwest portions of
the state.  Hawaii ,  Alaska  and Puerto Rico: The only change of note this
week is found on the Big Island of Hawaii, with a reduction of
the D0 on the windward side after a series of beneficial rains.
The rest of the islands remain unchanged this week.  Alaska and Puerto Rico remain unchanged this week.  Looking Ahead: The next 5 days (through April 11) show a
favorable pattern of precipitation across the  Great Lakes ,
Midwest and  Ohio  Valley regions along with a more spotty chance
of decent precipitation in the upper elevations across the West.
The southern tier states from New Mexico across the Gulf Coast
and Florida along with the Mid-Atlantic show a pretty dry
outlook, though. Temperatures are expected to be well above
normal (6 to 9 degrees) from the Rockies to the Atlantic while
the opposite holds true across most of the West, with readings
expected to be 6 to 9 degrees below normal.  The CPC 6-10 day forecast (April 12-16) is calling for cooler
temperatures in Alaska and the west coast along with the Great
Lakes and Northeast. The odds are enhanced for seeing a repeat
of above-normal temperatures in the Four Corners region,
southern Rockies, and southern Plains into the Mississippi
Delta. Above-normal amounts of precipitation are more likely
across the Pacific Northwest, Great Lakes and Florida with
below-normal precipitation more likely in Alaska, the Southwest,
central and southern Plains and the lower Mississippi Delta.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story: Stephen Rose in Washington
at   srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  