-- 
U.S. House Passes Repeal of EPA Carbon Rules Over White House Objections

-- B y   K i m   C h i p m a n
-- 
2011-04-07T20:50:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-s-house-passes-repeal-of-epa-carbon-rules-over-white-house-objections.html
The U.S. House passed legislation
prohibiting the Environmental Protection Agency from regulating
greenhouse gases blamed for  climate change , defying an Obama
administration threat to veto the bill.  The measure by Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, was approved 255-172 today with 19 Democrats joining
236 Republicans. The bill needs approval from the Senate and
President Barack Obama to become law. Obama aides will advise a
veto, the administration said in an April 5 statement.  Republican lawmakers and some Democrats say the EPA is
going too far with regulations such as limits on carbon-dioxide
gases. The rules were imposed by the agency to control heat-
trapping emissions after Congress failed to pass climate- change
legislation backed by the president. EPA opponents say the
regulations are unnecessary and threaten the economy.  The bill will “permanently prevent the EPA from
implementing regulations that would cost our economy billions of
dollars, destroy jobs, and force American families and
businessmen and women to bear ever-increasing gas and utility
costs,” House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia
Republican, said in a statement after the vote.  The Republican-led House voted a day after the Democratic-
controlled Senate defeated measures that would delay or prohibit
the greenhouse-gas rules. An amendment by Senate Republican
leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky , based on Upton’s bill,
failed 50-50, with 60 votes needed. Four Democrats joined the
Republicans, and Senator  Susan Collins , a Maine Republican,
sided with the Democrats.  White House Praise  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  praised the Senate
for rejecting an approach that he said would increase U.S.
reliance on oil and deny the scientific consensus on the threat
of climate change.  The U.S.  Chamber of Commerce , the nation’s biggest business
lobby, cited “strong bipartisan” votes in the House and Senate
to curb the EPA.  “Congress needs to determine the scope of the Clean Air
Act, not EPA,” William Kovacs, the Washington-based group’s
senior vice president of environment, technology, and regulatory
affairs, said today in a statement. “Allowing the EPA to impose
this expansive set of regulations would hurt the economy, cost
jobs, and harm America’s competitiveness.”  Factories, Refineries  Upton’s legislation would strip the EPA of authority to
regulate emissions from stationary polluters, such as power
plants and oil refineries, under the  Clean Air Act . It also
would reject the agency’s finding that greenhouse gases endanger
the public and prohibit it from regulating greenhouse-gas
emissions from vehicles after 2017.  The American Lung Association, a health-advocacy group,
said the measure guts the federal  Clean Air Act  by which the EPA
regulates pollutions, putting the public’s health in danger.  “Upton’s bill is a reckless and irresponsible attempt to
once again put special interests ahead of public health, a
maneuver the public is staunchly opposed to,” President Charles
Connor said in a statement.  A February poll commissioned by the Washington-based health
group found that 60 percent of people questioned said Congress
shouldn’t stop the EPA rules and 35 percent thought lawmakers
should bar the agency from limiting discharges of carbon
dioxide, a primary greenhouse gas.  The survey of 500 probable voters Feb. 7-14 by Democratic
polling firm Greenberg Quinlan Rosner Research and Republican
pollster Ayres, McHenry & Associates, according to the
association. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.4
percent.  The House bill is H.R. 910.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kim Chipman in Washington at 
 kchipman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  