-- 
U.S. Agency Warned of Risks in Repairs to Japanese Reactors

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-04-07T00:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/u-s-agency-warned-of-risks-in-repairs-to-japanese-reactors.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission warned that fuel at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant’s
crippled reactors in  Japan  had melted and that salt build-up in
spray nozzles was probably impeding the flow of cooling water.  The assessment was written on March 26 by the commission’s
reactor-safety team and sent to its engineers in Japan who are
helping stabilize the reactors and spent-fuel pools, which
emitted radiation after power was shut off by an earthquake and
tsunami on March 11.  The report, labeled “For Official Use” only and obtained
today, recommends ways workers at the site should attempt to
keep the reactors cool and minimize the risk of further
explosions, such as by injecting nitrogen, an inert gas, into
containment vessels.  The document, reported by the New York Times on its website
yesterday, also said that workers should “consider the water
weight on seismic capability of containment.” It was a
reference to the possibility that an aftershock could wreck
reactor containment structures that have been flooded with water
in the effort to prevent a meltdown.  The NRC report offered a “snapshot” of possible actions
U.S. experts considered at the time, the agency said today in a
statement. It isn’t a reflection of the agency’s “understanding
of the current situation,” the regulatory agency said.  While the NRC offered recommendations, Tokyo Electric Power
Co., owner of the crippled reactors, decided to pursue “an
alternative set of strategies to control the plants,” according
to the statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  