-- 
UBS Dominance in Australia M&A to Weather Collapse of ASX-Singapore Deal

-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 
2011-04-07T23:19:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/ubs-dominance-in-australia-m-a-to-weather-collapse-of-asx-deal.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ’s lead among merger advisers
in  Australia  is big enough to withstand the collapse of
 Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s $8 billion bid for  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , the
bank’s second-biggest pending deal in the country.  UBS, advising Australian bourse ASX on the planned sale to
its regional rival, still retains a lead ahead of Deutsche Bank
AG with $56 billion of deals involving local companies in the
past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Treasurer  Wayne Swan  blocked the bid today after the Foreign
Investment Review Board said it wasn’t in the national interest.  Zurich-based UBS built a lead over  Wall Street  and European
rivals by advising on the three largest takeovers involving
Australian companies in the past year, including the ASX deal.
The bank may get picked to advise ASX again if the bourse is
targeted by another bidder, said Peter Swan, finance professor
at the Australian School of Business at the University of New
South Wales in Sydney.  “Their expertise is likely to come into play again,” said
Swan, who is not related to the government official. “There’s
nothing that  Singapore  could possibly say to the Treasurer and
FIRB to get them to change their mind.”  UBS, whose investment-banking workforce in Australia is the
largest among foreign firms at about 160, has advised on more
than 30 deals in the past year, Bloomberg data show. Their total
value tops Deutsche Bank’s 22 transactions worth $50.7 billion
and the $39 billion of takeovers assisted by Macquarie Group
Ltd., Australia’s largest investment bank.  Hanging On  UBS could even lose its biggest uncompleted deal,
Blackstone Group LP’s $9.4 billion purchase of  Centro Properties
Group ’s U.S. shopping malls, and stay in front of Sydney-based
Macquarie.  Still, regulatory constraints are not the only risk.  “While we continue to see reasonably strong levels of
activity, particularly in mining and energy, the longer term
implications of various issues such as developments in the
Middle East and North Africa and European debt concerns remains
uncertain,” said Anthony Sweetman, UBS’s head of corporate
advisory in Australia.  UBS declined to comment on the proposed ASX deal or its
league table standing.  The bank’s lead in Australia contrasts with its 11th
position in a global M&A market dominated by Morgan Stanley,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Minmetals, Equinox  Guy Fowler, the head of UBS’s Australian investment-banking
unit, took advantage of a recovery in deals last year, when the
value of mergers involving local companies more than doubled
from 2009 to $154 billion according to Bloomberg data. UBS has
advised ASX for at least a decade, Fowler said in a Dec. 2
interview.  Deutsche Bank’s haul includes advising  Minmetals Resources
Ltd. (1208) , a unit of  China ’s biggest metals trader, on its C$6.3
billion ($6.6 billion) offer for Perth, Australia-based Equinox
Minerals Ltd. Some investors have said that bid won’t be enough,
and others have said a rival suitor may emerge.  Singapore Exchange  had planned to buy ASX to create the
world’s fifth-biggest bourse. The takeover is now the first
foreign merger to be opposed on national interest grounds in
Australia since former Treasurer Peter Costello blocked a $3.2
billion bid by Hague-based Royal Dutch Shell Plc in 2001 to take
control of Woodside Petroleum Ltd. in Perth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  