-- 
Turkish Stocks Advance to Five-Month High on ECB’s Comment

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-04-07T15:50:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/turkish-stocks-fall-for-first-day-in-five-lira-retreats.html
Turkish stocks rose to five-month
high after European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
said policy makers hadn’t decided today’s interest-rate increase
was the first of a series.  The main  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  climbed 1.2 percent to
69,490.47, closing at the highest level since Nov. 15 at 5:30
p.m. in Istanbul, rising for a fifth day.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , a bank
part-owned by Citigroup Inc., led the gainers, rising 2.6
percent to 8.64 liras.  Stocks and the currency rallied on Trichet’s comments,
which followed the ECB’s decision to raise rates for the first
time in almost three years. MSCI Emerging Markets Index of
shares from 21  developing countries  fell 0.1 percent.  “Trichet’s statement is positive for emerging markets and
countries near  Europe ,” Suha Yaygin, deputy chief of emerging
markets at Toronto-Dominion Bank in  London , wrote in e-mailed
comments.  The lira strengthened as much as 0.5 percent today, before
paring those gains to trade little changed at 1.5125 as of 6:20
p.m. in Istanbul, following a magnitude 7.4 earthquake that
shook  Japan  less than a month after the nation’s worst temblor
on record.  Turkey ’s currency has rallied 5.3 percent versus the dollar
in the past month, the best performance of more than 20 emerging
markets tracked by Bloomberg, benefiting from the so-called
carry trade, in which investors buy currencies of countries with
low rates and invest in assets of nations with higher yields.  Turkey’s central bank may raise its key lending rate by 75
basis points to 7 percent by the end of the year, according the
median of six estimates in a Bloomberg survey. The ECB, which
raised its main rate a quarter point to 1.25 percent today, will
probably increase its rate another 50 basis points this year,
according to the median of 33 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Carry Trade  “The lira-carry remains among the highest in the emerging
world,” the Royal Bank of Canada wrote in a note to clients.
“And there is a building consensus that it will soon go higher
as risks build that the central bank is caught behind the curve
staying too dovish for too long, and may be forced to hike
interest rates more aggressively in the second half of 2011.”  The lira was the best carry trade versus the Japanese yen
among emerging currencies in the past month, returning 9.4
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  