-- 
Valeant CEO Spurns Research for Deals With Cephalon Fight

-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 
2011-04-07T20:20:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/valeant-ceo-spurns-drug-research-for-deals-with-cephalon-fight.html
Valeant Pharmaceuticals
International Inc. (VRX)  Chief Executive Officer J. Michael Pearson
has built the little-known Canadian drugmaker into a stock-
market favorite with 21 friendly acquisitions for $1.8 billion
since he took over in 2008.  For number 22, his biggest yet, he’s going hostile.  Valeant’s $5.7 billion bid for  Cephalon Inc. (CEPH) , the Frazer,
Pennsylvania-based maker of sleep and cancer drugs, was rejected
on April 5. Pearson says Cephalon, which spent 16 percent of its
$2.81 billion in 2010 revenue on research, needs to restructure
as it faces the loss of sales from its top-selling drug to
generic competition next year without a quick replacement.  It’s a familiar refrain from the 51-year-old Pearson,
according to analysts. As he has acquired companies, he has
gained a reputation for cutting jobs and slashing research
funding. He’s tripled Valeant’s stock price in the process.  “R&D is a very risky investment,” Pearson said in an
interview. “The odds of you succeeding in that are kind of
against you.”  Valeant, which spent less than 6 percent of last year’s
$1.18 billion in revenue on research, has soared to more than
$50 from less than $15 when Pearson became CEO in February 2008
after 23 years at McKinsey & Co., a management consulting firm
that advises on strategy and efficiency.  Cephalon fell 51 cents, or less than 1 percent, to $76.51
at 4 p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Valeant,
based in Mississauga, Ontario, dropped 42 cents to $51.95 on the
New York Stock Exchange.  Pearson is growing Valeant through acquisitions and
partnerships, said Timothy Chiang, an analyst with CRT Capital
Group in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  ‘Into Making Money’  “His approach isn’t one that most executives in the drug
business take,” Chiang said in telephone interview last week.
“He’s even said in past presentations: ‘We’re not into high
science R&D; we’re into making money.’ I think that’s why
Valeant sort of trades in a league of its own.”  Cephalon is nearing “a very tough 2012,” Pearson said on
a conference call last week. Its top-selling medicine, a
narcolepsy drug with $1.12 billion in 2010 revenue, faces
generic competition in April 2012. Its next best-seller, the
cancer drug Treanda, had 2010 revenue of less than $400 million.  At the same time, Cephalon is in late-stage studies on
medicines for lupus, bipolar depression and pain, according to
its  website .  Cutting Jobs  Pearson’s strategy and viewpoint on research costs have
been consistent. When he combined Valeant with drugmaker Biovail
Corp. in September, he cut about 25 percent of the workforce,
sliced research spending and established a performance-based pay
model tied to Valeant’s market value.  “I recognize that many of you did not sign up for either
this strategy or operating philosophy,” Pearson wrote in a
 letter  to staff at the time. “Many of you may choose not to
continue to work for the new Valeant.”  For those who stayed, it paid off. Valeant has doubled
since the merger was completed, while the  New York  Stock
Exchange Healthcare Index of 110 companies rose 8.4 percent. The
stock sells at 21 times estimated 2011 earnings, more than twice
the 9 times estimated earnings for Cephalon shares, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Cephalon rejected Valeant’s $73-a-share cash offer this
week, saying the bid was “opportunistic” and undervalued its
marketed and experimental medicines. Valeant named a slate of
directors it proposes to replace Cephalon’s board.  ‘Fair Value’  “We put what we believe to be a very fair value out,”
Pearson said. “It’s supposed to be a very friendly approach to
them. If they prefer to stick with not selling the company to us
for cash, that’s fine. We’ll just move on.”  If Valeant succeeds in its bid, spending on Cephalon’s
 experimental medicines  will likely drop, said Charles Duncan, an
analyst with JMP Securities in New York.  For Pearson, “The pipeline is in some ways an
afterthought, if not just a way to finance” the deal, Duncan
said in an interview. “Valeant will look at the pipeline, be
very selective and probably out-license” many products.  Pearson isn’t alone in his strategy. New York-based Pfizer
and  Sanofi-Aventis SA (SAN) , based in Paris, are following a similar
model, as each prepares for its drugs to face generic
competition. Pfizer’s top product, Lipitor, a $10.7 billion
seller in 2010, began losing patent protection last year.  Sanofi cut its research spending by 4 percent last year as
it pursued acquisitions to bolster its drug pipeline. In
February, Sanofi bought Massachusetts biotechnology company
Genzyme Corp. for $20.1 billion.  Pfizer Research Costs  Pfizer, the world’s biggest drugmaker, last year spent 14
percent of its revenue developing drugs, and in February cut its
spending projection for R&D next year by $1.5 billion. The
company’s new CEO, Ian Read, said the drugmaker will close labs
and cut research spending to focus on the most profitable
programs.  Read also said Pfizer will demand more accountability from
business managers and scientists for the commercial success of
experimental drugs. If the research team finds a promising
compound and the business team chooses not to pursue it, Pfizer
may sell the rights to other companies, he said.  When Pearson arrived at Valeant from McKinsey, he, too,
took steps to pare down the company in areas where it seemed to
be overreaching. Valeant “was trying to emulate a big
pharmaceutical company, but didn’t have the financial breadth or
capacity to do so,” he said.  80 Countries  At the time, Valeant was operating in more than 80
countries and had large investments in research and “risky
projects,” Pearson said. In response, he divested businesses in
areas that weren’t making money, including Western Europe and
Asia Pacific, and focused on  North America ,  Mexico ,  Brazil ,
 Central Europe  and  Australia .  Pearson also partnered some of the company’s experimental
drugs, collaborating with London-based  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  on
the epilepsy medicine retigabine, and with Kadmon
Pharmaceuticals LLC of New York on the antivirals taribavirin
and ribavirin as a way to share the costs.  Valeant now is seeking to acquire companies with assets
that could be managed better, Pearson said.  “We’re looking for companies that have products in them
that we could grow,” he said. “And maybe do a slightly better
job than current owners.”  Narcolepsy Drug  In Cephalon, Valeant would inherit Provigil, a medicine for
the sleep disorder narcolepsy that faces generic competition
next year. Cephalon has been trying to move patients to a new
version called Nuvigil, an effort Valeant may manage more
efficiently, JMP’s Duncan said.  “While the market has been somewhat concerned about the
revenue cliff that Cephalon has, I think it seems to be less of
an issue for Valeant,” CRT’s Chiang said. “Valeant, I imagine,
is going to cut a significant amount of the costs out of the
Cephalon business.”  Cephalon’s cash flows from operations, which have doubled
in the past three years to $782 million in 2010, make it
particularly appealing to Valeant, coupled with potential for
cost-cutting, Chiang said. “This is sort of his specialty,”
Chiang said of Pearson.  Additionally, Cephalon’s slate of experimental medicines
“offers interesting opportunities for partnering,” Pearson
said last week on the conference call.  “We do not bet on science, but on management,” he said.
“We’re actually pretty good at restructuring. It’s always a lot
harder to restructure yourself than to have someone come help
you restructure. That plays a little bit to our strengths.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 