-- 
Vattenfall’s Dutch Unit Delays Gasification at New Power Plant

-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 
2011-04-07T16:29:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/vattenfall-s-dutch-unit-delays-gasification-at-new-power-plant.html
Nuon Energy NV, the Dutch unit of
Vattenfall AB, agreed to curb emissions at its new power plant
in the northern  Netherlands  and decided to postpone plans for an
installation that would convert coal and biomass into gas.  Nuon made a commitment to environmental organizations that
the station’s gasification unit won’t be brought on stream
before 2020, it said today in a  press release . The 1,200-
megawatt  Nuon Magnum  natural-gas plant in Eemshaven will be
ready at the end of 2012 and will supply two million households,
the company said on its website.  Once the gasification part is ready, “emissions will not
exceed 360 grams per kilowatt-hour, equivalent to the emissions
from a modern gas-fired power plant,” Nuon said. “The
environmental parties involved are at the same time withdrawing
their legal objections to the gas-fired power station currently
under construction.”  Nuon’s commitment was a “major breakthrough” as the
company became the first major European utility to accept such a
binding emissions performance standard, or EPS, on a coal plant,
Dutch environmental group Natuur & Milieu said in a separate
statement.  “We call upon other utilities in  Europe  as well as policy
makers to follow this example and to implement an EPS for coal-
fired power plants on a pan-European scale,” said Ron Wit, head
of climate for Natuur & Milieu.  The technology considered by Nuon for the second stage of
its new plant combines coal and biomass gasification with the
capture and storage of carbon dioxide underground.  “Commercial reasons, such as the trend in raw material
prices, play a significant role in the decision not to make an
 investment decision  in the short term about the application of
gasification technology,” the company said. “Recent
discussions about CO2 capture and storage have shown that there
is currently insufficient support for this technology, in
particular for onshore storage.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  