-- 
Venezuela to Ration Power After Worst Blackout Since 2009

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 
2011-04-08T01:55:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/venezuela-s-capital-seven-other-states-hit-by-blackout-1-.html
Venezuela will ration power supply
today after the worst blackout since 2009 struck the capital of
Caracas and at least 15 states.  State utility Corpoelec will reduce supplies to the entire
country this evening for three hours with the exception of
Caracas, Electricity Minister Ali Rodriguez said. Power had been
restored to all states including Zulia, Carabobo and Miranda
after this afternoon’s blackout, according to Rodriguez.  The  power failure  hit Caracas at 3:30 p.m. local time,
temporarily closing the metro and causing traffic jams ahead of
the evening rush hour, Rodriguez said on state television. A
forest fire damaged a power line from the Planta Centro plant in
Carabobo state, cutting off 10,000 megawatts of generating
capacity, Rodriguez said.  “This was an isolated event and doesn’t mean that we’re
close to seeing a power grid collapse,” Vice President Elias Jaua said on state television. “We apologize for the
inconveniences caused.”  Demand typically utilizes about 15,000 megawatts of
generating capacity, compared with a total installed capacity of
24,000 megawatts, according to Rodriguez.  Last year, Venezuela, which depends on hydroelectric power
for more than two-thirds of its electricity needs, imposed
rationing, penalized high-consuming businesses and shut steel
and aluminum plants after a severe drought threatened to cripple
the grid.  Oil Refining Units  About 40 percent of  Venezuela ’s electricity supply was cut
during a blackout on Sept. 3, 2009, that affected several states.
As the economy emerges from recession, industrial demand for
power is rising, straining the grid, Rodriguez said.  Today’s blackout shut the alkylation unit at Petroleos de
Venezuela SA’s El Palito refinery, the state oil company said in
an e-mailed statement. The unit was being restarted and
production won’t be affected, PDVSA said.  The power failure also interrupted operations at refining
units in Anzoategui state that process heavy crude into lighter
oil, PDVSA said in a separate statement. About 700,000 barrels a
day of capacity was affected, according to PDVSA.  The Petropiar heavy-oil upgrader operated with  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
was halted, PDVSA said. Operations should return to normal by
early tomorrow, according to the statement.  Venezuela, the largest oil producer in  South America , is a
founding member of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries.  Curbing Consumption  Rodriguez on April 5 called on the population to curb
consumption that he called excessive and among the highest per
capita in the world.  “Our efforts to bolster the grid won’t be successful if we
don’t teach the population to conserve more power,” he said.  President  Hugo Chavez  installed about 1,700 megawatts of
new generation capacity last year, below the government’s 5,000-
megawatt target. Rodriguez said the government expects to add
2,568 megawatts to the grid this year.  Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  said today at a news
conference that the government invested $5.5 billion in the
electricity sector last year. Chavez said yesterday $3 billion
to $4 billion will be spent this year to bolster the grid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  