-- 
Vietnam’s Credit Growth Above Five Percent in First Quarter

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-07T12:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/vietnam-s-credit-growth-above-five-percent-in-first-quarter-1-.html
Vietnam ’s credit growth was above 5
percent in the first quarter, central bank Governor Nguyen Van Giau said in a statement posted on the government’s website.  That was within the bank’s forecast range of 4.5 percent to
5.2 percent, Giau said today, without giving a precise figure.  Prime Minister Nguyen Tan Dung has lowered the target for
credit growth this year to less than 20 percent from an earlier
goal of 23 percent, as part of the government’s tightening
measures to combat inflation and stabilize the economy.  Dong lending rates rose by 1 to 1.5 percentage points in
the first quarter and averaged about 16.23 percent, according to
today’s  statement . Lending rates for agriculture and exports
were between 14 percent and 16 percent, while rates for non-
manufacturing sectors were 18 percent to 22 percent.  Dong deposit rates ranged from 13.5 percent to 14 percent
in that period, little changed from the end of last year, the
statement said. The average dollar deposit rate was 4.65
percent, while the average dollar lending rate was 6.83 percent.  During the last days of the first quarter, interbank
 interest rates  climbed and are currently at about 16 percent to
18 percent, mainly for terms of less than one month, it said.  Vietnam devalued the dong for the fourth time in 15 months
on Feb. 11 to curb its trade deficit and narrow the gap between
official and so-called black market exchange rates. The dong
spot rate was at 20,915 per dollar today, compared with 20,913
yesterday, according to prices from banks compiled by Bloomberg.  The devaluation “helped bring about positive movements in
the foreign-currency market,” the government said today. “The
 exchange rate  gradually stabilized” and “foreign-currency
liquidity improved,” according to the statement.  The central bank will focus on inspecting loans in non-
manufacturing sectors in the first six months, and concentrate
on examining  credit quality  and safety ratios at banks in the
second half this year, the statement said.  The  State Bank  of Vietnam will also work with the Ministry
of Finance to inspect securities firms that are units of banks. 