-- 
Disney’s ESPN Starts Offering Live TV to Subcribers on Apple IPad, IPhone

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-07T22:25:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/walt-disney-s-espn-unveils-new-application-for-ipad-iphone-ipod-touch.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN is allowing
owners of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone who subscribe to pay-
television service to watch its channels live on their devices.  “WatchESPN,” available today at Apple’s App Store, will
stream ESPN, ESPN2, ESPNU and ESPN3 to Time Warner Cable, Bright
House Networks and Verizon FiOS TV subscribers, the Bristol,
Connecticut-based sports network said in an e-mailed statement.  ESPN, the most-watched U.S. sports channel, plans to start
inserting commercials into the video streams in August, said
Sean Bratches, executive vice president of sales and marketing.
Currently ads aren’t displayed when programs break for
commercials. ESPN is talking with  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  about their use of its networks on the
companies’ respective iPad apps, he said.  “Our vision is to sell a dedicated and unique stream of
advertising on the iPhone and iPad platforms,” Bratches said in
an interview. “We’re also experimenting with a different form
of advertising that will be more interactive.”  Disney, based in  Burbank , California, fell 23 cents to
$42.04 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. The shares have climbed 12 percent this year.  Watching From Anywhere  Unlike apps from Time Warner Cable and Cablevision, which
restrict viewing to a subscriber’s home, ESPN lets viewers watch
from any location, Bratches said.  Ads seen through streams on apps from the cable companies
aren’t counted by Nielsen Co., which provides viewership data
that is used to determine how much advertisers pay for
commercials. Nielsen is working on a system to count online and
mobile viewing.  ESPN’s ad revenue from online and mobile viewing, although
small at first, will grow and add to the network’s total
revenue,  Richard Greenfield , an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York,
said in an interview.  “This is a natural evolution,” Greenfield said. “It
shows the complexity of a world that relies on living-room
viewing transitioning to one where people watch television
anywhere and everywhere.”  To access the channels, users of ESPN’s app must supply
cable-account information after downloading the free software. A
version optimized for the iPad will be released in May, the
company said. ESPN said it plans to make the software available
on other phones and tablets “in the near future.”  “WatchESPN” is customized for each viewer’s location to
comply with league contracts, Bratches said.  “This is totally mobile,” Bratches said. “Whether
traveling, commuting or at a kids soccer game, you will have
complete access.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  