-- 
Washington Mutual Investors Reach Settlement in Suit Over Bank's Lending

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-07T21:55:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/washington-mutual-investors-reach-settlement-in-suit-over-bank-s-lending.html
Investors in  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) ,
the former owner of the biggest U.S. bank to fail, reached a
settlement in a group lawsuit over the bank’s lending practices,
according to a court filing.  “The court has been advised of a pending settlement in the
lead securities class action portion” of the multidistrict
litigation, according to papers filed yesterday in federal court
in Seattle.  The lawsuit consolidates more than 20 cases claiming the
bank secretly lowered lending standards, artificially inflated
home-price appraisals and failed to disclose its deteriorating
financial condition when the loans began to fail.  The tentative settlement is for more than $200 million, the
Seattle Times reported, citing an unidentified lawyer familiar
with the case. Much of the settlement will come from insurance
policies covering the defendants, according to the newspaper.  Barry Kaplan, a lawyer for former Chief Executive Officer
Kerry Killinger, a defendant, and Chad Johnson, a lawyer
representing the investors, didn’t immediately return calls for
comment.  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to JPMorgan Chase & Co. for $1.9 billion.
 Washington  Mutual Bank was the biggest bank to fail in U.S.
history, with more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in
deposits.  The case is In re Washington Mutual Inc. Securities,
Derivative & ERISA Litigation, 2:08-md-01919, U.S. District
Court, Western District of Washington (Seattle).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 