-- 
Wayne Rooney Will Miss F.A. Cup Semifinal Against City After Ban Is Upheld

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-04-07T09:58:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/wayne-rooney-will-miss-f-a-cup-semifinal-against-city-after-ban-is-upheld.html
Manchester United striker  Wayne Rooney  will miss the F.A. Cup semifinal against  Manchester City 
after his two-game suspension for cursing was upheld.  Rooney incurred the ban for swearing into a television
camera during last weekend’s game at West Ham after he
completed a hat-trick of goals in a 4-2 victory. A Football
Association regulatory commission confirmed the punishment.  “Rooney had admitted a charge for the use of offensive,
insulting and/or abusive language, but claimed that the
automatic penalty of two games was clearly excessive,” the F.A.
said  on its website . “The Commission did not accept the claim
and Rooney will begin the standard two-match suspension with
immediate effect.”  Rooney scored the winning goal in last night’s 1-0 victory
at Chelsea in a Champions League quarterfinal first-leg game.
The F.A. didn’t immediately reveal the result of yesterday’s
disciplinary hearing so as not to interfere with United’s
preparation for the match.  He will miss the April 16 semifinal at Wembley as well as a
Premier League match with Fulham in two days’ time. There had
been speculation that the ban might have been increased to three
games -- including the game at Newcastle on April 19 -- if
Rooney disputed the punishment. The return leg with Chelsea on
April 12 isn’t covered by the suspension.  Rooney said he was “gutted” that the ban had been upheld,
 Sky Sports  reported.  “I’m not the first player to swear on TV and I won’t be
the last. Unlike others, I apologized immediately and yet I’m
the only person banned for swearing. That doesn’t seem right,”
the broadcaster cited him as saying.  League leader United said it was “clearly very
disappointed” with the decision after putting forward a “very
strong case” to have the punishment reduced.  “Wayne apologized immediately after the match and the club
now wishes to move to on to what hopefully will be a very
exciting conclusion to the season,” United said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  