-- 
Wen Beating Inflation Makes China Stocks a Buy at Banks

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   A l l e n   W a n
-- 
2011-04-08T08:37:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/wen-tackling-inflation-makes-chinese-stocks-a-buy-at-world-s-biggest-banks.html
China ’s fourth interest-rate
increase in less than six months is spurring investment
strategists at four of the world’s biggest banks to say it’s
time to buy stocks in the fastest-growing major economy.  Credit Suisse Group AG boosted its 12-month forecast for
the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, also known as the H-share
index, predicting a 28 percent gain after the central bank
raised its one-year lending rate by a quarter point to 6.31
percent on April 5.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  increased its rating on
China to “overweight,” while  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  said
investors should lift holdings.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  advised buying
options to bet on gains.  The recommendations, which follow bullish forecasts last
month from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , signal
confidence that Premier Wen Jiabao’s government will curb the
fastest inflation since 2008 without derailing growth in an
economy forecast by the World Bank to expand 9 percent in 2011.
The price-earnings ratio of the H-share index is 19 percent
below its five-year average after profits surged 32 percent last
year, beating analysts’ estimates, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  “I normally don’t go along with the brokers but this time
they are right,” Sandy Mehta, the Hong Kong-based chief
investment officer for Value Investment Principals and a former
 fund manager  at Putnam Investments LLC, said in an interview
yesterday. “China has been pro-active in raising rates to fight
inflation. Stocks are also extraordinarily cheap.”  China Underperforms  The gauge of 40 Chinese companies listed in  Hong Kong ,
known as the H-share index, has climbed 0.9 percent since the
People’s Bank of China began raising  interest rates  in October,
trailing a 9.9 percent gain in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
When China’s borrowing costs increased a similar amount from
October 2004 through March 2007, the index jumped 113 percent.  The measure is valued at 13 times earnings, a 4 percent
discount to the MSCI emerging-markets index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average premium of
13 percent for the index during the past five years, the data
show.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the nation’s
largest lender by market value, increased per-share earnings 29
percent in 2010 from a year earlier while PetroChina Co., the
country’s biggest oil producer, said profit jumped 36 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Anhui Conch Cement Co.,
the largest cement maker, posted a 76 percent gain in earnings
last year.  Beating Estimates  “Overall results of Chinese companies were stronger than
we expected,” Vincent Chan, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit
Suisse, Switzerland’s second-biggest bank, wrote in a report
dated April 6. Chan increased his 12-month estimate for the H-
share index to 17,500 from 16,000 and boosted his forecast for
the Shanghai Composite Index of mainland-listed equities to
3,650 from 3,600.  The H-share index rose less than 0.1 percent to 13,652.92
at the 4 p.m. close today, while the Shanghai Composite climbed
0.7 percent to 3,030.02 and the MSCI emerging-market index
gained 0.4 percent to 1,206.59 as of 4:27 p.m. Hong Kong time.
The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI)  retreated 0.2 percent
yesterday as an earthquake shook  Japan  less than a month after
the nation’s worst temblor on record.  “As long as the central bank isn’t behind the curve, rate
increases can be positive for equities because they show policy
makers think economic growth is robust,”  Garry Evans , the Hong
Kong-based strategist at HSBC,  Europe ’s largest bank, said in an
interview yesterday. He had been “cautious” on Chinese stocks
for more than a year.  Inflation  China has increased its benchmark lending rate by 1
percentage point since October and lifted banks’ reserve
requirements three times this year to tackle inflation and curb
real-estate speculation.  Consumer prices jumped 4.9 percent in February from a year
earlier, topping the government’s full-year target of 4 percent.
Inflation probably accelerated to 5.2 percent in March, which
would be the highest level since July 2008, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 23 economists. The
statistics bureau will release the number on April 15, according
to a preliminary schedule.  Policy makers will lift the key lending rate to 6.56
percent by year-end, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey of 20 economists on March 22. Besides
monetary tools, the government has deployed subsidies, state-
food reserves and the threat of price controls to counter
inflation, which Premier Wen has described as a potential threat
to social stability in the nation of 1.3 billion people.  Manufacturing Gains  This week’s rate increase “gets us close enough to the end
of China’s late tightening cycle to mitigate a key policy
overhang,”  Michael Kurtz , a strategist in Hong Kong at
Macquarie, Australia’s largest investment bank, wrote in an
April 6 report. He upgraded Chinese stocks to “market-weight”
from “underweight.”  Growth in Chinese manufacturing is a sign the economy may
be weathering tighter policy. The Purchasing Managers’ Index
rose for the first time in four months in March, climbing to
53.4 from 52.2 in February, the China Federation of Logistics
and Purchasing said on April 1.  “We expect the Chinese government to engineer a soft
landing of the economy,”  Adrian Mowat  and Frank Li, Hong Kong-
based strategists at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, wrote in an April 5 report. They lifted
their recommendation on Chinese stocks to “neutral” from
“underweight” for Asian equity portfolios.  Fuel Prices  Strategists are too bullish because inflation is unlikely
to slow any time soon, according to Zhao Zifeng, who helps
oversee about $10 billion at China International Fund Management
Co. in Shanghai.  China raised retail fuel prices this week for the second
time this year after oil’s advance to a 30-month high undermined
the government’s efforts to cap costs. A United Nations gauge of
food prices is within 3 percent of a record high and may rise
further after grains surged on reports of shrinking stockpiles,
according to the UN.  “I don’t think there will be a bullish trend on China’s
stocks,” Zhao said in an interview. “The whole year will be a
fluctuating pattern.”  Daniel Lam, a Hong Kong-based strategist at Citigroup, the
third-largest  U.S. bank  by assets, recommended buying three-
month call options on the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index to
profit from a rally. The contracts give the right to buy a
security for a certain amount by a set date.  ‘Overweight’ China  Chinese stocks were upgraded to “overweight” from
“market weight” last week by analysts Helen Zhu and Timothy Moe at Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets.
They recommended banking and property shares and kept their 12-
month target of 16,500 for the H-share index.  Jun Ma , Hong Kong-
based strategist at Deutsche Bank,  Germany ’s biggest lender,
said in a report distributed March 21 that Chinese shares may
climb about 25 percent.  “These hikes have been priced in,” Citigroup’s Lam wrote
in an April 6 report. “China is trading cheap.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Wan at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 