-- 
West Bank, Gaza Growth Not Likely Sustainable, World Bank Says

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-04-07T01:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/west-bank-gaza-growth-not-likely-sustainable-world-bank-says.html
Economic growth in the  West Bank  and
 Gaza Strip  is largely driven by donor donations and is not
likely to be sustainable, the World Bank said.  The  Palestinian Authority  should focus on developing its
trade regime and infrastructure and improving the employability
of the  labor force  to create growth that can be maintained, the
organization said in a report to donor countries released today.
It also said that industry won’t increase significantly as long
as Israeli limitations on movement are in place. The report said
that according to initial estimates based on labor surveys, the
Palestinian economy expanded 9.3 percent last year.  “The growth is mostly confined to the non-tradable sector
and reflects the importance of donor aid in driving the
Palestinian economy -- though recent easing of restrictions by
the government of  Israel  has probably had a positive impact as
well,” the World Bank said in its report.  Palestinian Authority Prime Minister Salam Fayyad said
April 5 that his government is in the “home stretch” of a two-
year plan begun in 2009 to build the foundations needed for
statehood. Palestinian leaders have said they are preparing to
unilaterally seek diplomatic recognition for an independent
state in September if negotiations with Israel aren’t revived.  The  International Monetary Fund  said in a report yesterday
that the Palestinian Authority, which rules the West Bank, is
capable of running the economy of an independent state.  Ended Cooperation  Gaza is ruled by the Islamic Hamas movement, which ended
cooperation with the Palestinian Authority in 2007.  The Palestinian Authority has succeeded in delivering
public services and promoting reforms “that many existing
states struggle with,” the  World Bank  said in its report. While
education and health indicators for the West Bank and Gaza are
“impressive” and reflect an extensive coverage of the
population, the quality of services should be improved, it said.  “Ultimately, sustainable economic growth in the West Bank
and Gaza can only be underpinned by a vibrant private sector,”
the World Bank said. “The latter will not rebound while Israeli
restrictions on access to natural resources and markets remain
in place.”  Israel says access restrictions are necessary to stop
attacks by militants. Israel has removed several roadblocks in
the West Bank and has eased restrictions on imports into Gaza
over the past year, while maintaining limitations on exports
from the Hamas-controlled territory that it says are necessary
for security reasons.  Israeli-Palestinian peace talks fell apart within a month
of starting last year. Palestinian Authority President  Mahmoud
Abbas  said he wouldn’t continue the U.S.-brokered negotiations
unless Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu extended a 10-
month freeze on settlement construction, a condition the Israeli
leader rejected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  