-- 
Wind Energy Farms Added 26 Percent of New U.S. Power Capacity in 2010

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-04-07T21:17:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/wind-energy-farms-added-26-percent-of-new-u-s-power-capacity-in-2010.html
U.S. wind power capacity grew 15
percent in 2010, reaching 2 percent of all the electricity
generated in the nation, the  American Wind Energy Association 
said.  Developers added turbines with a capacity to generate 5.1
gigawatts, putting total output at 40.1 gigawatts, according to
an annual market report released by the lobby group in New York
today. Fossil fuels generated about two-thirds of all power.  Wind energy accounted for 26 percent of all installed
generation capacity last year, down from 40 percent in 2009.
Natural gas, whose price has fallen 40 percent in the past five
years, had the largest single increase and took 40 percent of
new capacity. Coal-fired plants added 25 percent of new
capacity.  The portion of wind since 2007 added 35 percent of all new
generating capacity, “twice what coal and nuclear added
combined,” said AWEA Chief Executive Officer  Denise Bode . “The
American wind industry is delivering, while competing with
energy sectors that have permanent government subsidies.”  The majority of installations took place in the fourth
quarter, probably because of seasonal factors and the
anticipated expiration of the so-called  1603 Treasury grant
program . That provided a cash grant in-lieu of the 30 percent
investment tax credit, which was extended in December until the
end of 2011.  Wind Market  The U.S. wind market started 2011 with 5.6 gigawatts of new
wind projects under construction, more than twice the amount
under way at the start of 2010, the association said. It
credited the surge to the extension of the grant program.  NextEra Energy Resources, a unit of  Juno Beach , Florida-
based  NextEra Energy Inc. (NEE) , was the largest owner of wind power
capacity, with more than 8 gigawatts, or about a fifth of all
wind power in the U.S.  Iberdrola Renewables, the U.S. arm of Madrid-based
Iberdrola SA’s renewable energy unit  Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR) ,
added slightly more than 1 gigawatt of new capacity to become
the largest owner of new capacity last year.  Texas led new installations, passing 10 gigawatts of
cumulatively capacity. Iowa got 15 percent of its electricity
from wind, the highest percentage in the U.S. The industry
brought 14 new manufacturing facilities online, the same as in
2009, the report said.  For 2011, new construction is expected to bounce back to
6.5 gigawatts to 7.5 gigawatts of new installations, and growing
7 gigawatts to 8 gigawatts each year in 2012 and 2013, according
to a forecast by Bloomberg New Energy Finance.  U.S. Southeast  States in the U.S. Southeast, where wind development has
been almost non-existent according to AWEA, is expected to pick
up. “Our wind resources in the Southeast, in many cases, are
better than in  Europe ,” Bode said today at a roundtable lunch
at AWEA’s Wind Power Finance & Investment Workshop in New York.  Technology will allow wind farms to capture more power in
regions like the  Southeast  which have less wind energy resources
than the rest of the country, according to the U.S. Department
of Energy.  “If you go onto higher towers and bigger rotors, you can
catch as much if not more energy in these places” than in other
places with older technology, said Dirk Matthys, CEO for North
American of Zamudio, Spain-based wind turbine maker  Gamesa Corp
Tecnologica SA. (GAM)   Editors: Will Wade, Reed Landberg  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  