-- 
Wisconsin’s Supreme Court Asked by State Official to Toss Union Law Case

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 
2011-04-08T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/wisconsin-officials-challenge-temporary-bar-to-collective-bargaining-law.html
Wisconsin’s  Supreme Court  was asked
by state Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen to throw out a lower-
court case in which a judge barred enforcement of a law limiting
public workers’ ability to engage in collective bargaining.  Van Hollen filed his petition with the state’s high court
yesterday, saying he isn’t appealing  Dane County  Circuit Court
Judge Maryann Sumi March 18 restraining order. Acting instead on
behalf of Mike Huebsch, the secretary of the state’s Department
of Administration, the attorney general is asking the Supreme
Court to take jurisdiction over the matter and dismiss it.  “A Dane County judge has basically issued a permanent
restraining order,” Huebsch said in a statement announcing the
filing. “In doing so, she has created uncertainty for state and
local governments that are relying on the reforms.”  Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker , a Republican, signed the
legislation on March 11. The bill requires annual
recertification votes for union representation by public
employees and makes payment of union dues voluntary.  Firefighters and police officers are exempt.  Under the new law, state workers would contribute
5.8 percent of their salaries toward pensions and pay
12.6 percent of their health-insurance costs. Walker has said
the measure would generate $30 million in savings this fiscal
year and $300 million in the next two years.  Protests at Capitol  Democrats and organized labor opposed the legislation as an
attack on worker rights. Opposition sparked almost four weeks of
protests around and inside the state capitol.  Dane County District Attorney Ismael Ozanne last month sued
four Republican lawmakers, alleging they violated the state’s
open meetings law when they crafted the legislation. Ozanne
asked Sumi to block the law until the legislators could be
brought before the court. The prosecutor is a Democrat.  Sumi, after two days of testimony, on April 1 extended her
original order indefinitely while asking the parties to brief
her on how long she could maintain the injunction while the
defendant legislators were in session and immune from suit.  Van Hollen , in his brief filed yesterday, told the Supreme
Court it cannot invalidate the legislation because of an open-
meetings law violation. The attorney general, a Republican, also
told the high court that Sumi’s injunction was “ineffective”
and that the law is in force.  While the judge’s order restraining Democratic Secretary of
State Doug La Follette was in effect, the state’s Legislative
Reference Bureau posted the measure on the Internet after being
asked to do so by Republican Senate Majority Leader Scott Fitzgerald, who is a defendant in the Ozanne suit.  Permission Denied  Van Hollen and Huebsch then each issued statements saying
the law was in force. Still, when the attorney general told an
intermediate level appellate court he wished to withdraw a
request for permission to appeal Sumi’s March 18 order, the
three-judge appellate panel declined to do so.  That Madison-based court told Van Hollen it had already
referred the issue to the state Supreme Court.  La Follette’s lawyer, Roger Sage, said yesterday he hadn’t
had time to read the attorney general’s filing and couldn’t
immediately comment.  Ozanne didn’t reply to a phone message seeking comment.  Supreme Court Certification  “I don’t think the Supreme Court should accept
certification at this juncture,” said Robert Jambois, an
attorney for Democratic legislator Peter Barca, who was part of
the six-person joint Senate-Assembly committee that crafted the
law. “If they were to do so, they would not have the advantage
of any of the briefs at the trial court.”  Jambois, who served 18 years as the Kenosha County District
Attorney, said it was unusual to bring a case directly to the
Supreme Court.  “I have only had two cases that went right to the Supreme
Court in all the years I was a district attorney,” he said.
“It is unusual but not unprecedented.”  The prosecutor’s case is State of  Wisconsin  Ex Rel. Ozanne
v. Fitzgerald, 11cv1244, Dane County, Wisconsin, Circuit Court
(Madison).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde in Madison at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  