-- 
Wisconsin Court Election Linked to Public Union Fight Heads Toward Recount

-- B y   T i m   J o n e s   a n d   M a r i e   R h o d e
-- 
2011-04-07T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/wisconsin-court-election-linked-to-public-union-fight-heads-toward-recount.html
A recount of “unprecedented”
scrutiny is likely in a  Wisconsin  Supreme Court race where 204
votes separate the candidates out of almost 1.5 million cast, a
state elections official said.  For now, challenger JoAnne Kloppenburg leads Justice David T. Prosser Jr., according to an unofficial tally from the
 Associated Press . The race became a proxy fight over curbs on
collective bargaining rights enacted in Wisconsin that sparked
weeks of protests and became a national cause, with millions of
dollars of campaign money pouring in from outside the state.  Verifying the accuracy of the vote will take several weeks,
and if there are legal challenges to determine who won the court
seat, the outcome could be delayed longer, said Kevin Kennedy,
director of the  Wisconsin Government Accountability Board , which
oversees elections.  “We are living in a time when there are charged
emotions,” Kennedy told reporters yesterday at a news
conference in Madison, the state capital. “Like it or not, not
everyone can win this election.”  At stake is the make-up of the seven-member court that will
likely rule on the union law championed by Republican Governor
 Scott Walker  and challenged in a lower court.  A recount will officially begin today at the county level,
Kennedy said, adding that he expects an official request from
one candidate for a statewide re-tallying within 10 days.  While no official request for a recount has been made, the
sliver-like margin separating Kloppenburg and Prosser makes it
likely. Officials of both campaigns met with Kennedy yesterday.  ‘Counting Them Twice’  “We’re counting the votes and counting them twice,” Brian
Nemoir, Prosser’s campaign manager, said in a telephone
interview.  Kloppenburg, an assistant state attorney general, declared
victory yesterday, saying “Wisconsin voters have spoken.”  Lawyers have not. In the recount of the Minnesota U.S.
Senate race in 2008, lawyers for Democrat Al Franken and
Republican Norm Coleman fought for eight months before the state
 Supreme Court  declared Franken the winner by 312 votes in July
2009.  Almost four weeks of protests in Madison over the
collective bargaining issue served as fuel for a court race that
had received little notice until then.  Unions and Democrats mobilized against the bill, while
Republicans rallied around Walker, who was elected in November.  Recall Efforts  Walker signed the bill into law March 11. Legal challenges
have delayed its implementation, and the issue has sparked
recall campaigns began against 16 state senators -- eight
Democrats and eight Republicans. And the Supreme Court race
became consumed in the disputes over Walker’s bargaining law.  Political groups spent almost $3.6 million on television
ads in the race, with the majority supporting Prosser, according
to data  released  by the Brennan Center for Justice at  New York
University ’s law school. The amount was a state record for
television spending by non-candidate organizations, the center
said in a statement.  Prosser, 68, was a Republican lawmaker for 18 years and
became a Wisconsin Supreme Court justice in 1998. His campaign
 website  says, “I present myself as a judicial conservative,
devoted to the constitution and the rule of law.”  Kloppenburg, 57, has been a litigator in the state  Justice
Department  since 1989, serving under  attorneys general  from both
parties, according to her campaign  website . She has donated to
Democratic candidates in past years.  Primary Results  Prosser won 55 percent of the vote in the nonpartisan
primary Feb. 15, while Kloppenburg was second with 25 percent,
according to the accountability board.  In a news conference yesterday, Walker rejected the
assertion that the election was a referendum on the union law,
and said he welcomes a recount “as long as it’s fair.”  Debates about public employees’ bargaining power and
benefits have unfolded in several states -- including  Ohio ,  New
Jersey  and  Indiana .  In Ohio, where Republican Governor  John Kasich  has signed
into law a similar bill limiting collective bargaining for
government employees, two Democratic lawmakers said they are
introducing a bill to let voters recall statewide elected
officials and legislators. The bill, aimed at Kasich, is
inspired by efforts in Wisconsin to recall senators in the wake
of the collective-bargaining fight there, said state
Representative Mike Foley, a Cleveland Democrat.  The Wisconsin law, which passed with no votes from
Democrats, limits most government unions to bargaining for wages
alone; raises can’t exceed inflation unless voters agree. The
measure requires increased contributions for health-care and
pensions, and prohibits automatic dues collection from workers’
pay.  The district attorney of  Dane County , which encompasses the
capital of Madison, sued to block the law, saying that
legislators violated the state’s open-meetings statutes in
passing the measure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tim Jones in Madison at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Rohde  in Milwaukee at 
 fmarierohde@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  