-- 
Woodside Petroleum May Buy Back $9 Billion Shell Stake, Credit Suisse Says

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-07T06:46:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/woodside-may-buy-back-9-billion-shell-stake-credit-suisse-says.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  may sell
stakes in its Australian natural gas ventures to Japanese
companies and use the proceeds to buy back  Royal Dutch Shell
Plc (RDSA) ’s $9 billion of shares in the company, Credit Suisse said.  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, is likely to sell its
remaining 24.27 percent stake in Woodside “sooner rather than
later,” Sandra McCullagh and Nik Burns, analysts at Credit
Suisse in Sydney and Melbourne, wrote in a report today.  “The best option” is to sell stakes in the Pluto
liquefied natural gas project, the expansion of that venture,
and in the Browse LNG development to one or more companies, they
wrote.  Australia ’s second-largest oil and gas producer could
then buy back and cancel Shell’s stake in the Perth-based
company, they said.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Mitsui & Co. and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  are
seen by some investors as potential buyers of the Shell stake or
the company, the analysts wrote. It is doubtful that companies
would be willing to acquire Shell’s holding as a “passive
investment,” and Asian buyers would rather have LNG asset
stakes than an interest in the company, they said.  Japanese companies would be “keen to participate” in
acquiring Woodside LNG project stakes as the crisis unfolding at
the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant north of  Tokyo  leads
to increased demand for natural gas, according to the report.  BHP is unlikely to pay the premium required to acquire
Woodside, the Credit Suisse analysts said.  Woodside fell 0.1 percent to A$46.95 at the 4:10 p.m. close
in Sydney, matching the 0.1 percent drop in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index. That values Woodside at about A$36.8 billion
($38.5 billion).  Ease Concerns  Buying back the shares would ease concerns that Shell may
sell the stake at a discount, “leading to further weakness in
the share price,” the analysts said. New partners in Woodside’s LNG
ventures may also agree to buy fuel from the projects and make
the developments more valuable, they said.  The Australian oil producer is being “proactive” with
Shell about the remaining shares after the European energy
company sold a 10 percent stake last year, Woodside Chief
Executive Officer Don Voelte said in February. Shell sold that
holding in Woodside for about $3.3 billion in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Paton  in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 