-- 
Yen, Dollar Extend Weekly Losses Before German, U.K. Reports; Aussie Gains

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-04-08T05:56:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/yen-is-set-for-weekly-loss-versus-euro-pound-before-german-and-u-k-data.html
The yen and dollar fell against most
major peers as stocks rose before data forecast to show German
exports and U.K. producer prices increased, adding to signs the
global recovery is gaining momentum.  The yen extended a fourth weekly drop versus the euro, the
longest losing streak in 20 months, as quickening growth
elsewhere in the world contrasted with Japan’s efforts to
rebuild after last month’s record earthquake. The euro reached
the strongest versus the dollar since January 2010 on
speculation the  European Central Bank  will raise  interest rates 
further after yesterday’s increase.  “Improved risk sentiment on the back of the global
recovery is pushing the euro higher against the yen and dollar,
especially now the market is convinced there will be further
rate increases by the ECB,” said Hitoshi Asaoka, senior
strategist at Mizuho Trust & Banking Co. in Tokyo, a unit of
Japan’s second-largest bank.  The yen declined to 122.45 per euro as of 6:47 a.m. in
 London  from 121.49 yesterday in  New York , after touching 122.64,
the weakest since May 5, 2009. It has depreciated 2.3 percent
this week. The yen dropped 0.2 percent to 85.10 per dollar. The
euro advanced to $1.4393 from $1.4308, after earlier climbing to
$1.4404, the highest since Jan. 19, 2010.  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback versus the
currencies of six major trading partners, including the pound
and Canadian dollar, sank to as low as 75.184, the least since
December 2009.  German, U.K. Data  Japan ’s currency has weakened 5.5 percent in the past
month, the biggest drop among the 10 currencies tracked by
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, spurred by signs
economies around the world are picking up.  German exports rose 2 percent in February from the previous
month, when they dropped 1 percent, according to a Bloomberg
survey of economists. U.K. producer prices increased 0.6 percent
in March from February, when they gained 0.5 percent, a separate
survey showed. Both reports are due today.  “Sentiment is still ‘risk on,’ given that nothing has
changed” to the outlook for global growth, said  Yuji Saito ,
director of the foreign-exchange department at Credit Agricole
Corporate and Investment Bank in  Tokyo . “The bias is for the
yen to be sold.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of regional shares advanced 0.8
percent, extending its third weekly gain to 5.6 percent.  ECB Rates  The euro touched an 11-month high against the yen on
prospects the ECB will raise interest rates further while the
 Bank of Japan  maintains an accommodative monetary policy.  The ECB yesterday boosted its key rate by 25 basis points
to 1.25 percent to curb inflation, which accelerated to the
fastest in two years last month. It will boost the rate by 133
basis points over the next 12 months, compared with a prediction
for 44 basis points of increases at the end of last year, a
Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps showed.  “We will continue to do in the future” what is
appropriate “to ensure  price stability ,” ECB President Jean- Claude Trichet said in  Frankfurt  yesterday.  Morgan Stanley recommended investors buy the euro at 121.75
yen, with a target of 130 yen and an automatic instruction to
sell the currency should it weaken beyond the 118.80 yen level.  Long Euro-Yen  “On the back of Trichet’s continued hawkish tones, we add
a long euro-yen position,” New York-based currency strategist
Yilin Nie and Hong Kong-based currency strategist Yee-Wai Chong
wrote in a note yesterday. “Relative to the ECB, the BOJ is at
the opposite end of the spectrum, having just announced more
easing measures at their recent meeting.”  The BOJ yesterday unveiled a 1 trillion yen ($12 billion)
one-year loan program to companies affected by the March 11
quake and tsunami. Board members downgraded their economic
assessment for the first time since October.  Traders boosted bets on the amount of interest rate
increases by the  Reserve Bank  of  Australia  over the next 12
months to 30 basis points, from 18 basis points at the end of
last week, according to a Credit Suisse index.  “Any dips in Aussie and kiwi are going to be quite shallow
because these remain the most attractive currencies to put on
carry trades,” said  Todd Elmer , the Singapore-based head of
Group-of-10 currency strategy for Asia ex-Japan at Citigroup
Inc. “We’re likely to see significant appreciation in these
currencies, which for Aussie should take us up toward $1.10.”  Australia’s dollar gained 0.5 percent to $1.0518, after
earlier rising to $1.0534, the highest since it was freely
floated in 1983.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 