-- 
Yen Strengthens After Earthquake, Tsunami Warning Spur Carry Trade Unwind

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-07T16:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/yen-strengthens-after-earthquake-tsunami-warning-spur-carry-trade-unwind.html
The yen strengthened on speculation
traders will reduce investments in higher-yielding assets funded
by the currency after a magnitude 7.4 earthquake hit 215 miles
northeast of  Tokyo  and a tsunami warning was issued.  The Japanese currency rose against all 15 of 16 of its
most-traded counterparts except for the Brazilian franc. The yen
often gains in time of global turmoil in anticipation Japanese
investors will repatriate assets because the country’s export-
reliant economy doesn’t need foreign capital to balance current
accounts.  The yen strengthened to a post-World War II high of 76.25
versus the dollar after a March 11 quake and tsunami that killed
or left missing 27,000 people. The gain prompted Group of Seven
nations to jointly sell the yen on March 18 for the first time
since 2000 to prevent the surge in the currency from hindering
economic recovery efforts.  “The yen strength was on the earthquake,” said  Tim
O’Sullivan , chief trader at FOREX.com, a unit of the online
currency trading company Gain Capital in Bedminster,  New Jersey .
“It’s a mini re-creation of the macro move we saw where the yen
strengthened for about a month. It was a buying opportunity.”  The yen rose 0.6 percent against the dollar to 84.99 at
12:27 p.m. in  New York , after jumping as much as 1 percent.
Japan’s currency rose 0.9 percent against the euro to 121.41 and
0.6 percent against the Australian dollar to 88.75.  Power Failure  Carry trades using the yen to buy the currencies of
 Australia ,  Brazil  and  South Africa  have returned about 35
percent since Dec. 31 on an annualized basis, compared with
about 13 percent using the dollar, Bloomberg data show.  The quake was measured at a depth of about 25 miles and
struck about 11:32 p.m. local time near the site of last month’s
quake, the largest on record in  Japan , the U.S. Geological
Survey reported on its website. Japan issued a tsunami alert for
a possible two-meter wave.  Today’s quake caused power failures in Sendai, Yamagata and
Fukushima City, according to broadcaster NHK. Miyagi Prefecture
reported no immediate damage from the quake, which caused the
region to close highways, Kyodo said.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. told reporters that the quake
caused no new disruptions at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi and Dai-Ni
nuclear power units. The Fukushima units were crippled by the
March quake.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  