-- 
Yen Gains After Brazil Announces Currency Curbs; Aussie Climbs on Job Data

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-04-07T07:19:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/yen-franc-rise-as-brazil-announces-new-tax-measures-to-stem-real-s-gain.html
The yen strengthened against all of
its major counterparts, paring the past month’s losses, on
concern  Brazil ’s efforts to stem gains in its currency will spur
sales of emerging-market assets.  The yen rose for the first time in 11 days versus the
dollar as technical charts showed its recent decline was
excessive and on speculation Japanese exporters took advantage
of the currency’s slide to a six-month low to purchase it.
 Australia ’s dollar climbed to a record after a government report
showed the jobless rate dropped. The euro fell on speculation
recent gains were too rapid.  “Risk-aversion buying of the yen and the Swiss franc may
arise should Brazil’s measures lead to selling of emerging-
market assets,” said Tsunemasa Tsukada, chief manager for
currencies and financial products in Tokyo at Mitsubishi UFJ
Trust & Banking Corp., a unit of  Japan ’s largest financial group
by market value.  The yen climbed to 121.87 per euro as of 8:12 a.m. in
 London  from 122.52 in  New York  yesterday, when it fell to
122.61, the weakest level since May 5. Japan’s currency rose 0.3
percent to 85.28 per dollar after sliding to 85.53 yesterday,
the lowest since Sept. 21. The euro fell to $1.4286 from
$1.4331. The franc gained 0.5 percent to 1.30995 per euro.  Brazilian Tax  Brazil extended a tax on foreign-based loans to stem gains
in the real after its currency reached a 2 1/2-year high this
week, making the nation’s exports less competitive.  Starting today, banks and companies will have to pay a 6
percent tax when borrowing overseas for as long as two years,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said. Earlier this week,
President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government broadened the tax on
foreign loans to apply to credits of as long as one year, from a
previous levy on loans of three months or less.  The yen rallied from near a six-month low versus the dollar
as a technical indicator signaled its decline was overdone.  The dollar’s 14-day relative strength index versus the yen
was at 71.47, above the 70 threshold that suggests the
greenback’s rally from a postwar low of 76.25 yen on March 17
has been too rapid.  “The yen looks oversold and exporters are apparently
buying the currency to capitalize on its rapid weakness,” said
Lee Wai Tuck, a foreign-exchange strategist at Forecast Pte in
 Singapore . “The near-term bias for the yen is likely to be
positive.”  Australian Dollar  The yen has slumped 8.1 percent since its close on March
17, the day before the Group of Seven nations jointly intervened
in markets to drive the currency down from its postwar high.  Australia’s dollar rose for a second day versus the
greenback after the statistics bureau said the  unemployment rate 
fell to 4.9 percent in March from 5 percent the previous month.
Employers added 37,800 workers in March from the previous month,
the statistics bureau said.  “The jobs number was very strong,” said  Sean Callow , a
senior currency strategist at Westpac Banking Corp. in Sydney.
“This will only encourage the Aussie bulls on a multi-day
basis. If you’re bearish the  U.S. dollar  and looking for an
alternative, then the Aussie remains very attractive.”  Australia’s dollar gained 0.3 percent to $1.0473 after
earlier rising to $1.0482, the strongest since it was freely
floated in 1983.  Euro Declines  The euro fell from near a 14-month high against the dollar
as a technical indicator signaled its 2.4 percent advance over
the past month was excessive. The euro-dollar’s 14-day RSI was
at 65.23 today, approaching the 70 threshold.  Futures traders increased bets the euro will gain against
the dollar, figures from the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission showed on April 1. The difference in the number of
wagers by  hedge funds  and other large speculators on an advance
in the euro compared with those on a drop -- so-called net longs
-- was 56,630 on March 29, compared with 48,353 a week earlier.  “There’s a bit profit-taking on euro longs following its
steep rally,” said Yuki Sakasai, a currency strategist at
Barclays Bank Plc in  Tokyo . “Investors are adjusting positions
ahead of today’s ECB meeting.”  The  European Central Bank  will raise its target rate by a
quarter-percentage point from a record low 1 percent today,
according to all economists in a Bloomberg survey, even after
 Portugal  said yesterday it will seek a bailout from the European
Union after the nation’s political crisis pushed borrowing costs
to record levels.  Portugal is aiming for a package that may be worth as much
as 75 billion euros ($107 billion), two European officials with
knowledge of the situation said. Portugal is the latest country
to seek an EU-led bailout after  Greece  sparked a sovereign-debt
crisis that threatened to splinter the euro region a year ago
and engulfed Ireland in November.  -- With assistance from Candice Zachariahs in Sydney and Lilian
Karunungan in Singapore. Editors: Garfield Reynolds, Nicholas
Reynolds  To contact the reporters on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 