-- 
Zynga, Facebook Spark 51% Jump in Value of Top Web Startups

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-04-07T19:05:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-07/zynga-facebook-spur-51-jump-in-private-market-valuations-of-web-startups.html
Zynga Inc. and Facebook Inc. led a
51 percent surge in the private market valuations of top Web
companies in the first quarter, according to Nyppex LLC.  Zynga, maker of the “CityVille” and “FarmVille” online
games, rose 81 percent in value from the fourth quarter to about
$8 billion,  Nyppex  said today in an e-mail. Facebook, the
world’s largest social network, climbed 57 percent to about $65
billion. The valuations are based on transactions among
institutional investors.  As the top venture-backed Web companies stay private
longer, some early stakeholders and employees are selling to
investment firms including Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and  Russia ’s
Digital Sky Technologies. Demand for technology startup shares
is also growing in the mutual-fund industry, where T. Rowe Price
Group Inc. and Fidelity Investments are boosting their stakes.  LinkedIn Corp., the business-networking site that filed for
an initial public offering in January, rose 43 percent in value
to about $2.2 billion, while Web daily-deal site Groupon Inc.
increased 19 percent to $5.6 billion. Twitter Inc., the
microblogging service, rose 7.7 percent to $4 billion.  Nyppex, a  Rye Brook , New York-based research and advisory
services firm, tracks eight of the fastest-growing social-media
startups, and produces reports for money managers, venture funds
and corporations. Total valuations jumped to $86.1 billion in
first quarter from $56.9 billion at the end of December, said
Laurence Allen, managing member at Nyppex.  ‘Major Issue’  Allen estimates the value of secondary transactions will
almost triple to $6.9 billion in 2011 from $2.4 billion in 2009.
Secondary deals involve buying stock from existing shareholders,
including employees, rather than directly from the company.  The market’s expansion has caught the attention of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Regulators focused on the
business after Goldman Sachs halted a planned offering of as
much as $1.5 billion in Facebook shares to U.S. investors.
Goldman Sachs said on Jan. 17 it pulled the offer because of
concern that “immense media attention” could violate SEC rules
limiting marketing of private securities. Goldman Sachs led the
investment in Facebook that valued the company at $50 billion.  Mark Heesen, president of the  National Venture Capital
Association , called the regulatory concern a “major issue” at
his group’s annual meeting in  Boston  this week. Arlington,
Virginia-based NVCA has a standards committee and will be asking
its 400 member firms to create their own policies on handling
secondary offerings, Heesen said.  “Every firm should have a best practice on how you deal
with employee and partner private transactions in your firm,”
Heesen said. The venture industry should prove to regulators
that it’s a “community that self-monitors,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  