-- 888, Bwin.Party Surge on N.J. Gambling: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-02-08T13:01:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/888-bwin-party-surge-on-n-j-online-gambling-plan-london-mover.html
(Corrects spelling of Caesars in seventh paragraph.)  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc 
and  888 Holdings Plc  led a surge among gaming companies in
London after New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said he’s
willing to allow online gambling if certain conditions are met.  Bwin.Party rose as much as 23 percent, the biggest intraday
increase since December 2011, while 888 Holdings gained as much
as 18 percent. Bwin.Party led advancing stocks in the  FTSE All-
Share Index , while 888 Holdings, Playtech Ltd., a gaming
software developer, and betting firm Sportech Plc were among the
top 10 gainers on the index.  Christie said yesterday he would support a 10-year trial
for online betting in the state to see whether it helps
struggling Atlantic City casinos. He vetoed a bill and sent it
back to lawmakers with recommended changes including the time
limit, an increase in the tax on Internet bets and more money to
help problem gamblers.  “This is a better than expected outcome and paves the way
for online poker in New Jersey by September this year,”  Simon French , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London, wrote in a note
today. He has a buy  recommendation  on all four companies.  New Jersey Senator  Raymond Lesniak , a Democrat who
sponsored the bill, said he expects the changes to be approved
by the state Assembly this month and by the Senate in March,
paving the way for a signature from the Republican governor and
for online bets to be taken in September.  Better News  “We had thought it most likely that the governor would
veto the bill,”  Ivor Jones , an analyst at Numis who has a buy
rating on 888 and Bwin.Party, wrote in a note today. “This is
much better news.” Jones said a start to online gambling in New
Jersey could encourage other states to follow suit.  Shares of  Caesars Entertainment Corp. , the largest operator
in Atlantic City with four casinos, rose 19 percent yesterday in
New York. 888 has a joint venture agreement with Caesars.  “While it is still early days, we are very excited by the
opportunities that the U.S. market looks set to provide,” a
spokesman for 888 said today in an e-mailed statement.  Bwin.Party was up 20 percent at 140.30 pence at 11:50 a.m.,
extending its gain this year to 26 percent. 888 Holdings traded
at 133 pence, up 15 percent. The stock has more than doubled in
12 months. Betfair rose as much as 5.2 percent to 714.5 pence,
its biggest intraday gain in seven months.  Playtech , which said yesterday its fourth-quarter earnings
rose as William Hill Online delivered a record contribution to
the company, gained as much as 5.8 percent in London. Sportech
advanced as much as 6.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  