-- 888, Bwin.Party Surge on New Jersey Gambling Plan: London Mover
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2013-02-08T09:36:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/888-bwin-party-surge-on-new-jersey-gambling-plan-london-mover.html
Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc 
and  888 Holdings Plc  led a surge among gaming companies in
London after New Jersey Governor Chris Christie said he’s
willing to allow online gambling if certain conditions are met.  Bwin.Party rose as much as 19 percent, the biggest intraday
increase since December 2011, while 888 Holdings gained as much
as 11 percent. The two companies led advancing stocks in the
 FTSE All-Share Index , while Playtech Ltd., a gaming software
developer, and betting firm Sportech Plc were also among the top
five gainers on the index.  Christie said yesterday he would support a 10-year trial
for online betting in the state to see whether it helps
struggling Atlantic City casinos. He vetoed a bill and sent it
back to lawmakers with recommended changes including the time
limit, an increase in the tax on Internet bets and more money to
help problem gamblers.  “This is a better than expected outcome and paves the way
for online poker in New Jersey by September this year,”  Simon French , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London, wrote in a note
today. He has a buy  recommendation  on all four companies.  New Jersey Senator  Raymond Lesniak , a Democrat who
sponsored the bill, said he expects the changes to be approved
by the state Assembly this month and by the Senate in March,
paving the way for a signature from the Republican governor and
for online bets to be taken in September.  Shares of  Caesars Entertainment Corp. , the largest operator
in Atlantic City with four casinos, rose 19 percent yesterday in
New York.  Bwin.Party was up 15 percent at 134 pence at 9:18 a.m.,
extending its gain this year to 21 percent. 888 Holdings traded
at 127.5 pence, up 10 percent. The stock has more than doubled
in 12 months.  Playtech , which said yesterday its fourth-quarter earnings
rose as William Hill Online delivered record revenue for the
company, gained as much as 5.8 percent in London. Sportech
advanced as much as 6.3 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Colm Heatley  in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  