-- African Bank Slumps on $34 Million Fine, Delays Debt Sale
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-02-08T16:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/african-bank-falls-as-regulator-proposes-34-million-fraud-fine.html
African Bank Investments Ltd. , South
Africa’s largest provider of unsecured consumer loans, said it
may face a 300 million rand ($34 million) fraud fine, prompting
the company to delay a bond sale and sending the stock sliding.  The National Credit Regulator requested that a tribunal
impose the fine after it found that loan agents at an African
Bank branch in Dundee, South Africa, colluded with customers to
lower lending standards in exchange for cash, the Johannesburg-
based firm said in a statement today.  African Bank  shares fell 0.3 percent to 30.50 rand in
Johannesburg, after earlier declining as much as 6.4 percent.
Yields on the bank’s $350 million of 8.125 percent bonds due
2017 soared 35 basis points to the highest since Sept. 17.  “African Bank has handed the matter over to its attorneys
and contests the reckless lending allegation,” the company
said. “Given that this was an isolated incident as a result of
fraudulent activities and the organization has suffered a
consequential financial loss, African Bank believes that the
proposed fine is unwarranted.”  The NCR said in October that it was probing firms including
African Bank for inappropriate lending as consumer indebtedness
soared. South African consumer loans not backed by assets surged
fourfold between 2009 and last year, according to research from
the Johannesburg-based securities unit of Australia’s Macquarie
Group Ltd.  Bond Postponed  After receiving the NCR’s documents on Feb. 6, African Bank
decided to postpone the sale of a $300 million bond maturing in
2018, Chief Executive Officer  Leon Kirkinis  said in a phone
interview today. That same day, African Bank and its lead
advisers on the sale, including Credit Suisse Group AG and
 Standard Chartered Plc , had completed a series of presentations
to investors in Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  “It’s never advisable to be at war with your regulator,”
Kirkinis said. “We will engage with them and have requested a
meeting.” Without the bond sale, the lender will still have
enough capital for the next three months, he said.  African Bank’s closest competitor in unsecured lending,
 Capitec Bank Holdings Ltd. , fell 0.9 percent to 192.80 rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  