-- African Court Opens in Senegal to Try Ex-Chadian Ruler Habre
-- B y   R o s e   S k e l t o n
-- 2013-02-08T11:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/african-court-opens-in-senegal-to-try-ex-chadian-ruler-habre-1-.html
A special court of African judges
opened in Senegal to prepare a case against former Chadian
president  Hissene Habre , who’s accused of causing the deaths of
more than 40,000 people and torture during his eight-year rule.  The trial, operating under an African Union mandate, will
take place at the High Court of Justice in Senegal’s capital,
Dakar, and is expected to begin after a 15-month investigation
scheduled to start next week.  “The ceremony this morning is to show the world the
effective start of the tribunal,” Sire Aly Ba, the
administrator of the court, said to the applause of lawyers,
international human rights activists and foreign diplomats
attending the opening.  The establishment of the “Extraordinary African
Chambers,” an ad hoc court, follows two decades of failed
attempts to bring Habre, 70, to justice. He fled Chad in 1990
after rebels led by current President  Idriss Deby  overran Chad’s
capital, N’Djamena. Habre denies the charges against him.  “This is historic for Africa,” Assane Dioma Ndiaye,
president of Senegal’s League of Human Rights who’s coordinating
five lawyers representing victims in four countries, said in an
interview Feb. 6. “This is the first time the African Union has
decided to create an African court and the first time it has
accepted to try an African leader.”  Legal System  Chad, the European Union and the U.S. have pledged to fund
the proceedings. The court, whose judges will be nominated by
the African Union, will operate within Senegal’s legal system.  Senegal’s parliament approved a law establishing the
tribunal in December, following the election of President  Macky Sall . While Sall’s predecessor,  Abdoulaye Wade , was in office,
the West African nation turned down requests for extradition by
a Belgian judge who indicted Habre on charges of crimes against
humanity, war crimes and torture in 2005.  Previous trials of former African leaders include the 1993
conviction of ex-Malian dictator Moussa Traore for political
crimes and the 1987 guilty verdict for  Jean-Bedel Bokassa ,
former leader of the Central African Republic, on charges of
treason, murder and embezzlement.  International Courts  “African courts have been incapable of delivering justice
against African leaders,”  Reed Brody , a lawyer for New York-
based Human Rights Watch, said in a Feb. 4 telephone interview.
“This is why the international courts have stepped in.”  The African Union, the European Parliament, the Economic
Community of West African States and the International Court of
Justice urged Senegal to prosecute Habre or extradite him.  A Chadian court tried Habre in absentia in 2008 and
sentenced him to death for an alleged attempt to overthrow the
government.  “The tendency has been impunity, passivity, eyes were
closed,” said Sire Aly Ba, the administrator of the
Extraordinary African Chambers. “The tendency has been to
forget. Justice was for the small people, not for the heads of
state. Now, finally, there is a real political will.”  A National Truth Commission in Chad accused Habre’s
government of torture and the assassination of as many as 40,000
people.  Secret Police  Files found at the abandoned headquarters of Chad’s secret
police detail interrogation methods of thousands of prisoners
held in detention centers, according to Human Rights Watch,
whose researchers discovered the archives and which has
campaigned for Habre’s prosecution.  The documents outline how the secret police, which reported
directly to Habre, extracted confessions by forcing prisoners’
mouths around a car exhaust or making victims drink water until
they lost consciousness, according to the New York-based rights
group.  The  International Criminal Court  in The Hague has brought
the most recent cases against African leaders, such as Ivory
Coast’s former leader  Laurent Gbagbo  and Sudanese President  Umar al-Bashir .  “There is a need in Africa for an international court,”
Ndiaye said. “Up until now, there has been nowhere for
civilians to go to lodge a case against a leader. Now it has
been decided to bring about an investigation against a head of
state, so this is something that we should congratulate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rose Skelton in Dakar at 
 rskelton7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  