-- AGL Delays Proposed Coal-Seam Gas Expansion on Community Concern
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-02-08T00:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/agl-delays-proposed-coal-seam-gas-expansion-on-community-concern.html
AGL Energy Ltd. , the Australian
electricity retailer, said it postponed a plan to expand its
Camden coal-seam gas project in New South Wales state, giving
the company more time to consider community concerns.  AGL asked the New South Wales Department of Planning &
Infrastructure to suspend its evaluation of the Camden expansion
and defer a public hearing that was scheduled for Feb. 25, the
Sydney-based company said today in a statement. A decision by
the Australian government on whether to approve AGL’s Gloucester
coal-seam gas development in the nation’s most populous state
was deferred yesterday for the seventh time.  AGL is seeking to tap natural gas from coal deposits in New
South Wales to help decrease a reliance on energy supplies from
outside the state. The company’s projects are among plans that
have faced opposition from some environmental groups and farmers
worried about possible damage to water supplies.  “AGL understands that there are some members of the
community who are concerned about the current proposal, and we
believe that this suspension will allow us to consider those
community concerns,”  Mike Moraza , the company’s general manager
of upstream gas, said in the statement.  The existing operations at Camden, which have produced
coal-seam gas since 2001, provide about 5 percent of the state’s
demand, according to the company. Camden is located about 60
kilometers (37 miles) southwest of Sydney.  The shares fell 1.3 percent to A$15.12 in Sydney trading as
of 11:22 a.m. local time, while Australia’s benchmark S&P/ASX
200 Index rose 0.2 percent.  The Australian government pushed back a decision on
Gloucester by two weeks to Feb. 21, the Environment Department
said yesterday in an e-mailed response to questions. That
project, about 250 kilometers north of Sydney, would include as
many as 110 wells in its first stage and meet the demands of
more than 1 million homes, AGL’s  website  shows.  Only 5 percent of New South Wales demand is met from gas
produced within the state, AGL said. More gas is required to
maintain reliable and affordable supply, with New South Wales
expected to face a gas shortage by 2017, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  