-- Thai Rice Reserves Seen at Record as UN Flags Warehouse Shortage
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-02-08T03:59:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/thai-rice-reserves-seen-at-record-as-un-flags-warehouse-shortage.html
Rice stockpiles in Thailand will
surge to a record this year driven by a government-price support
program, according to the Food & Agriculture Organization, which
said the country may be running out of room to store the staple.  Milled holdings may jump 40 percent to 18.2 million metric
tons in 2013, the Rome-based United Nations’ agency said in a
report yesterday on the global rice market. The reserves, which
averaged 5.4 million tons a year between 2008-2010, have
increased from 7.8 million tons in 2011, according to the report.  There may be a “ looming shortage  of storage space,” the
agency said. “Government stock-release plans have progressed
slowly, further aggravating the supply situation for an export
sector that is faced with little offshore demand,” it said.  The projection highlights the buildup of rice in Thailand even
as the country is forecast to reclaim its mantle as the biggest
exporter this year as the government tries to step up sales. The
FAO’s forecast compares with a Jan. 30 estimate from the Thai Rice
Exporters Association, which put milled holdings at 17 million tons.
Former Thai Prime Minister  Thaksin Shinawatra  said in September the
rice-purchase program should be extended for several more years.  The buying program has elevated local prices, prompted
increased production and “fostered a considerable rise in
unofficial inflows” from neighboring countries, the FAO said in
the report. An estimated 750,000 tons in unofficial shipments
was moved in, up from 400,000 tons a year earlier, it said.  The government bought 9 million tons of unmilled rice last
harvest and expects to purchase as much as 11 million tons this
harvest, Commerce Minister  Boonsong Teriyapirom  said on Jan. 23.
The stronger baht had made exports “quite difficult,” he said.  Declining Shipments  Thai rice shipments plunged 37 percent to 6.73 million tons
last year, the Ministry of Commerce said on Jan. 23. That’s the
lowest level since 2000, according to data from the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, and dethroned Thailand as the world’s
biggest exporter.  Exports may increase to 7.7 million tons this year,
according to the FAO report. “Shipments from Thailand are
anticipated to rebound, mostly on the expectation of releases of
supplies from public inventories, which could even bring the
country back into the leading rice exporter position,” it said.  Thaksin said that the program reaps economic gains that are
about three times the cost, according to an interview in September.
According to the World Bank, the total cost may be as much as 440
billion baht ($14.8 billion) in 2012-2013, compared with 376
billion baht or about 3.4 percent of gross domestic product the
previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  