-- Taiwan Dollar Forwards Decline for Fourth Week on Yen Weakness
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-02-08T09:26:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/taiwan-dollar-forwards-decline-for-fourth-week-on-yen-weakness.html
Taiwan dollar forwards completed a
fourth weekly decline as the yen’s slide to a 2 1/2-year low
fanned speculation the island’s central bank will rein in the
exchange rate to protect exports.  Global funds bought $709 million more local stocks than
they sold in the first three days of the week, taking net
purchases this year to $1.6 billion, exchange data show. Policy
makers warned on Jan. 29 they will intervene in the currency
market if “irregular factors,” such as large fund flows, cause
excessive volatility. Taiwan and Japan compete in the global
market for electronic products. Exports jumped 21.8 percent in
January from a year earlier, official data showed yesterday.  “The Taiwan dollar has been dragged down by the yen’s
weakness recently, and will probably stay around NT$29 to NT$30
in the near term,” said  Ma Tieying , a Singapore-based economist
at DBS Group Holdings Ltd. “Taiwan’s improving fundamentals
will support a currency rally this year.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.4 percent this
week and 0.5 percent today to NT$29.74 versus the dollar as of
4:45 p.m. local time, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In the spot market, the currency dropped 0.3 percent to
NT$29.75 against its U.S. counterpart from a week ago, according
to prices from Taipei Forex Inc. It retreated 0.4 percent today
and closed the weakest since Sept. 11. Local stock and bond
markets were shut starting yesterday ahead of next week’s Lunar
New Year holiday.  The central bank has sold the local currency near the close
on most days in the past 10 months, according to traders who
asked not to be identified.  Volatility Rises  One-month implied volatility in the Taiwan dollar, a gauge
of expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
rose 95 basis points, or 0.95 percentage point, to 5.5 percent
during the five-day period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It jumped 136 basis points today.  The  overnight interbank lending rate  was little changed at
0.389 percent, a weighted average compiled by the Taiwan
Interbank Money Center showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  