-- Malaysia December Exports Unexpectedly Fall, Output Growth Slows
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y
-- 2013-02-08T04:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/malaysia-december-exports-unexpectedly-fall-output-growth-slows.html
Malaysia’s exports unexpectedly
dropped in December amid fewer shipments to the U.S. and China,
while industrial production rose less than economists estimated.  Overseas shipments  fell 5.8 percent from a year earlier
after rising a revised 2.3 percent in November, the Trade
Ministry said today. The median of 17 estimates in a Bloomberg
News  survey  was for a 1.4 percent increase.  Output  rose 3.7
percent from a year earlier, the statistics department said in a
separate report, lower than the median forecast of 6 percent in
another survey.  Malaysia’s export-dependent economy remains vulnerable to
fluctuations in global demand as the U.S. debates spending cuts
and Europe continues to struggle with a debt crisis. The
International Monetary Fund cut its global growth forecasts last
month, and the nation’s central bank said in January world
economic activity remains uneven.  “The weaker exports in December were due to crude palm oil
prices, which were down year on year,” Edward Lee, a Singapore-
based economist at Standard Chartered Plc, said before the
reports. “Commodity prices were still weak.”  Imports  fell 6.5 percent in December from a year earlier,
after gaining 4.3 percent the previous month, today’s report
showed. The trade surplus narrowed to 8.2 billion ringgit ($2.7
billion) from a revised 8.74 billion ringgit in November.  Output at factories, utilities and mines were forecast to
rise 6 percent, according to the median of 17 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Manufacturing output gained 4.6 percent in December from a
year earlier, today’s report showed. Mining rose 0.9 percent,
while electricity production grew 5.6 percent.  Manufacturing sales increased 6 percent in December from a
year earlier, after gaining a revised 7.1 percent gain in
November, the statistics department said in a separate report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Chong Pooi Koon  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  