-- Alterra Sued by Investors Over $3 Billion Sale to Markel
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-08T18:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/alterra-sued-by-investors-over-3-billion-sale-to-markel.html
Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd. 
investors sued the company over its proposed $3.13 billion sale
to property-casualty insurance provider  Markel Corp.   The Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System
filed a complaint today in Manhattan federal court against
Alterra, its board and Markel. The retirement fund, suing on
behalf of other investors in Alterra, alleged the company agreed
to sell itself at an unfair price and misled shareholders.  A merger agreement filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission revealed that the deal, announced in
December, “is the product of a flawed sale process,” lawyers
for the Louisiana retirement fund said in the complaint.  “The merger agreement also reveals that individual
defendants agreed to a number of oppressive deal protection
devices designed to preclude any competing offers for Alterra,”
the lawyers said in the complaint.  Bermuda-based Alterra, the eighth-largest publicly traded
reinsurance provider, rebounded last year after stumbling amid
high levels of catastrophic losses in 2011, according to the
complaint. The company survived “in better shape than most of
its peers,” and was on pace for financial growth when the
merger with Glen Allen, Virginia-based Markel was announced,
according to the complaint.  Bruce Kay , a representative for Markel, declined to
comment.  Susan Spivak Bernstein , a representative for Alterra,
didn’t immediately return call seeking comment.  The case is Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement
System, 13-cv-933, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in Manhattan at   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  