-- MAN SE to Slow Investments After Quarterly Earnings Drop
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h   R a u w a l d
-- 2013-02-08T14:10:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/man-se-to-slow-investments-after-2012-profit-plunges-35-.html
MAN SE , Europe’s third-largest maker
of commercial vehicles, said it may slow investments and will
work to cut spending this year as the region’s shrinking
economies cause earnings to drop faster than sales.  The European truck market in the mid-term will probably
remain “significantly below” the most recent peak of about
400,000 vehicles delivered in 2008, Chief Executive Officer
 Georg Pachta-Reyhofen  said today at a Munich press conference.
Fourth-quarter operating profit fell 23 percent from a year
earlier to 308 million euros ($412 million) as revenue declined
6.3 percent, the company said in its  annual report .  Management “is not satisfied with the results of the
fiscal year and has therefore initiated appropriate improvement
measures,” Pachta-Reyhofen said. “The focus will be on cutting
costs and boosting efficiency,” as MAN expects “a slight
decline in revenue and a disproportionately large drop in
operating profit,” the company said.  The economy of the 17 nations sharing the euro went into a
recession in the third quarter, and the European Central Bank is
forecasting a 0.3 percent contraction in 2013. MAN, controlled
by German carmaker  Volkswagen AG , is scaling back production in
response to the dropping demand. Peers including  Daimler AG , the
world’s largest truckmaker, and second-ranked  Volvo AB  have
taken similar steps to prevent a build-up of inventory.  Stock Falls  MAN  fell  as much as 0.4 percent to 88.25 euros and was
trading down 0.1 percent at 2:28 p.m. in Frankfurt. That pared
the stock’s gain this year to 9.6 percent, valuing the
truckmaker at 13 billion euros. VW is planning to buy full
control of MAN.  The forecast for 2013 “is clearly disappointing,”  Michael Punzet , a Frankfurt-based analyst at DZ Bank with a buy
 recommendation  on the truckmaker’s stock, said in a report to
investors. “Our positive view on MAN is mainly based on the
upcoming domination of MAN” by Volkswagen.  European demand for commercial vehicles in December fell to
the lowest level since October 2009, industry association  ACEA 
said Jan. 28. Registrations of new heavy trucks in Europe
dropped in all major markets, plunging 16 percent in France, 20
percent in Italy, 21 percent in the U.K., 27 percent in Germany
and almost 40 percent in Spain.  “A negative trend is expected in the European truck market
in 2013, despite purchases possibly being brought forward”
because of stricter emissions rules taking effect next year, MAN
said.  “But the second quarter could be slightly better than the
first quarter,” said  Anders Nielsen , MAN’s truck chief.  Dividend Cut  Measures to protect earnings may include reducing work
shifts or production days and reorganizing parts procurement as
well as expanding into emerging markets to reduce dependence on
Europe, MAN said. The company plans to reduce the dividend by 57
percent to 1 euro a share.  Volkswagen, Europe’s biggest carmaker, is pushing for
closer cooperation between MAN and  Scania AB , the Swedish heavy-
truck builder that the Wolfsburg, Germany-based manufacturer
also controls. MAN said today that it plans to increase joint
purchasing with VW and Scania to reduce supply costs, in
addition to obtaining more parts locally in Brazil for
operations there.  Legally Required  VW, which already owns 73.7 percent of MAN’s stock, has yet
to submit a bid to shareholders. It’s legally required to look
at MAN’s average stock price in the previous three months and
the value of the stock based on an independent evaluation, and
offer  MAN investors  the higher of the two figures. MAN owners
who don’t accept the deal will have the right to keep their
shares and receive a  dividend  instead.  Accounting firms KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers have been
hired to do a valuation analysis for a domination agreement, a
document that defines VW’s ties with MAN, the truckmaker said
today.  Volkswagen rearranged its truck operations’ management in
June as part of a six-year effort to get MAN and Scania to work
together.  Leif Oestling  was promoted from his post as chief
executive officer of Scania to join VW’s management board and
help forge the alliance.  “Volkswagen’s strategy is focused on strong, individual
brands, which have to compete on the market,” Pachta-Reyhofen
said in response to a question about MAN’s role after Volkswagen
completed the domination agreement.  Integration Steps  The CEO expects MAN to hold another annual earnings press
conference next year, but declined to comment further on the
planned integration steps or a possible delisting of the company
from the stock exchange.  Volkswagen has “a clear commitment” to MAN as a whole,
including its power engineering division, he said in response to
a question about a possible sale of the business. MAN’s power
engineering unit produces large diesel engines, which are used
in ships and turbo machinery for power plants, for example.  MAN ranks fourth behind Porsche, Scania and Audi in terms
of profitability within Volkswagen’s stable of 12 brands,
Pachta-Reyhofen said, citing the respective 2011 results.  MAN’s return on sales was 9 percent in 2011. It fell to 6.1
percent in 2012.  The power engineering unit’s profit margins are
“stabilizing MAN’s earnings,” he said. Return on sales at
MAN’s power engineering unit fell to 11.8 percent in 2012 from
12.8 percent in the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christoph Rauwald in Munich at 
 crauwald@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  