-- Hang Seng Debuts Gold-Tied Deposits After Hong Kong Rule Change
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-02-08T03:48:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/hang-seng-debuts-gold-tied-deposits-after-hong-kong-rule-change.html
Hang Seng Bank Ltd. is offering Hong
Kong’s first gold-linked deposits since the city began requiring
approvals for structured products in 2010, while forecasting the
commodity will rise for a 13th straight year.  The lender began marketing the product on Jan. 28 for
individuals who have gold-investment accounts with the bank,
according to  Rosita Lee , head of Hang Seng’s investment-product
and advisory business. At maturity, the deposits pay out fixed
returns if gold prices rise, while in the opposite case,
investors receive credits based on the lower value of gold,
according to a  prospectus .  Hang Seng is trying to expand its structured product
offerings as it works within new regulations aimed at protecting
investors from exotic and risky investments. Gold is set to gain
for a 13th year, helped by demand from China and India,
according to Mark Wan, chief analyst at Hang Seng Investment
Services.  “Gold prices actually rose quite a lot since the financial
crisis,” Lee said in an interview. “From that moment, we’ve
been already very interested in providing more gold-related
investment products.”  Spot gold prices surged more than six times to $1,675 an
ounce in the 12 years since the end of 2000. They may reach
$2,000 by the end of this year, after moving in a $1,620 to
$1,720 range in the first half, Wan predicted in an e-mail.  Tighter Regulations  Terms of Hang Seng’s structured deposits include fixed
annualized return rates of at least 1 percent that are paid out
as long as gold prices are above their initial levels at
maturity. If the value of the commodity falls, the investments
convert into tradable units for the bank’s gold accounts.
Deposit maturities are less than six months.  The  bank  was preparing for the product when the regulatory
change took place in 2010 and had to scrap the plan and revise
documentation according to the new requirements, Lee said. The
bank resumed talks with the regulators in May, she said.  “We need to have very close discussions with the
regulators to make sure they understand how the product operates
and to address their requirements into product offering
documents,” Lee said.  The Securities and Futures Commission increased  scrutiny  of
structured deposits and notes by requiring all issuers to get
its approvals for sales to individual investors. The changes
were made in response to losses from securities tied to bankrupt
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the new rules include explicit
disclosure of products’ risks in marketing materials.  Hong Kong investors had about HK$579 million ($75 million)
locked up in structured deposits at the end of 2012, more than
four times the outstanding amount of similar notes,  according to 
the commission.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  