-- Anti-Graft Adviser Says FIFA May Need Governmental Intervention
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-02-08T12:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/anti-graft-adviser-says-fifa-may-need-governmental-intervention.html
The anti-corruption adviser for world
soccer’s governing body today said the Swiss government may be
needed to reform FIFA amid concerns that proposed changes will
be blocked by European members.  Law professor  Mark Pieth  was chosen two years ago to lead
the 13-member Independent Governance Committee of FIFA. The
group was formed following accusations that senior officials
took kickbacks, the suspension of six executives accused of
wrongdoing during the bidding process for the 2018 and 2022
World Cups and a life ban given to a challenger for FIFA’s
presidency in 2011.  The University of Basel academic said he’s seeking the
involvement of the Swiss government to reform oversight of some
of the international governing bodies based in the country.
Pieth said intervention is needed because “you have 60-plus
such organizations and you’re basically allowing them to do
whatever they want.”  In January, the sport’s European governing body, UEFA, said
its members opposed a proposal by Pieth’s committee that any
members selected to FIFA’s executive board be voted upon by the
organization’s entire 209-nation membership and be subject to
background checks by an independent body. UEFA said its members
should decide who represents them on FIFA’s board and that “if
integrity checks are required,” they be done by confederations.  “What we are seeing here is resistance to some of the
toughest requirements,” Pieth said in a telephone interview
today.  UEFA declined to comment on Pieth’s views. FIFA, which also
declined to comment, will host a meeting with soccer’s six
confederations on Feb. 26 to discuss the reforms.  History  Because of past scandals, independent integrity checks are
critical to reforming the organization, Pieth said. Ex-FIFA
President Joao Havelange and former executive committee member
 Ricardo Teixeira  received as much as $22 million between them in
payments from the collapsed ISL marketing company. FIFA
President  Sepp Blatter  said the payments weren’t illegal because
they were commissions.  “I’m a bit astonished,” Pieth said of UEFA’s position.
“They know what the problems of the past are. I don’t have a
lot of trust in regional integrity checks and I don’t like the
use of the word ‘if’ in that declaration.”  UEFA said its 53 members unanimously approved its
opposition to FIFA reforms and also rejected the Independent
Governance Committee’s demand that FIFA board members have set-
term limits. Pieth said that position wasn’t reflected in
conversations he’d had with member nations.  “All sorts of people I’ve been asking who were responsible
have come back and said ‘Well no, we didn’t agree to all
this,’” Pieth said.  Next Meeting  FIFA at its Congress in Mauritius in May will vote on the
final set of proposed reforms after agreeing to the first
changes last year. Those included a new selection process for
future World Cup hosts, the creation of independent bodies to
investigate and prosecute wrongdoing and the creation of an
audit and compliance committee to oversee the millions of
dollars spent on soccer development around the world. A new
hotline to report match-fixing allegations and corruption became
operational earlier this month.  Pieth also criticized the English and German federations,
saying he didn’t understand why they have backed UEFA’s position
given their strong opposition to the way the international body
has been run in recent years.  Softening Suggestions  “We came out with very straight-forward suggestions and
UEFA together with the British association and German
association is softening them and that astonishes me,” he said.
Some officials were blocking reforms and thinking of “their own
interest before the interests of the whole,” he said.  The German and English associations didn’t immediately
respond to messages seeking comment on Pieth’s views.  Pieth said he’ll continue lobbying officials until it comes
time to vote.  “Let’s see if we can get it by self-regulation, if not we
will have to do it through the public domain,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  