-- Apollo Global Says Profit More Than Doubles on Exits
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e
-- 2013-02-08T21:41:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/apollo-global-says-profit-more-than-doubles-on-exits.html
Apollo Global Management LLC , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , said fourth-quarter
profit more than doubled as the firm’s funds reaped gains after
exiting investments.  Economic net income after taxes, a measure of earnings
excluding some compensation costs tied to Apollo’s 2011 initial
public offering, rose to $655.8 million, or $1.69 a share, from
$302 million, or 80 cents, a year earlier, New York-based Apollo
said today in a statement. Profit beat the 93 cents-a-share
average of 10 analyst  estimates  in a Bloomberg survey, sending
shares higher.  A 13 percent gain in global stocks last year and a
rebounding U.S. real estate market have lifted the value of fund
holdings, boosting fees for managing them. Among Apollo’s
biggest holdings, brokerage owner  Realogy Holdings Corp.  rose 55
percent during the fourth quarter and  Metals USA Holdings Corp. 
increased 31 percent. Black has also taken advantage of strong
performance by chemical maker  LyondellBasell Industries NV  to
sell down Apollo’s stake.  “Results were significantly better than expected across
both the management and incentive businesses,” said  Steven Fu ,
a San Francisco-based analyst at JMP Securities LLC. “Robust
realization activity during the quarter led to a record
distribution.”  Apollo  rose  2.4 percent to close at $22.69 in New York
trading. The shares have gained 31 percent this year, the most
among alternative-asset managers traded in the U.S.  Sold Assets  Apollo’s economic net income differs from U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Profit under those standards,
known as GAAP, was $171.5 million, or $1.12 a share, compared
with $10.9 million, or 5 cents, a year ago.  The company reaped profits by selling down its stakes in
LyondellBasell and cable provider  Charter Communications Inc. ,
as well as collecting a special dividend from LyondellBasell.
Apollo on Oct. 11 agreed to sell Smart & Final Inc. to Ares
Management LLC in a $975 million deal that will return 2.8 times
Apollo’s initial equity investment, a person familiar with the
matter said at the time.  Private-equity firms pool money from investors including
pension plans and endowments with a mandate to buy companies
within about five to six years, then sell them and return the
funds with a profit after about 10 years. The firms, which use
debt to finance the deals and amplify returns, typically charge
an annual management fee equal to 1.5 percent to 2 percent of
committed funds and keep 20 percent of profit from investments.  Portfolio Gains  Apollo’s assets under management rose to $113.4 billion
from $109.7 billion at the end of the third quarter. The firm,
like competitors  Blackstone Group LP  and  KKR & Co. , has sought
investment opportunities outside of traditional leveraged
buyouts to attract more capital and reduce reliance on volatile
private-equity earnings.  Apollo said the value of its private-equity holdings rose 9
percent during the quarter, compared with 7 percent for
Blackstone and 4 percent for KKR. Blackstone and KKR, both based
in New York, reported fourth-quarter profits that beat analysts’
estimates as the value of their buyout portfolios rose.  Apollo during the fourth quarter agreed to buy the
education business of McGraw-Hill Cos. for $2.5 billion as the
unit suffered from competition by digital-education products and
a decline in college, career and professional school
enrollments. The firm also agreed to buy the U.S. life and
annuity business of Aviva Plc, the U.K.’s second-biggest insurer
by market value, for $1.8 billion.  Worldwide, the value of private-equity deals announced in
the fourth quarter fell 3 percent from a year earlier to $88
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Apollo said it will pay a dividend of $1.05 per common
share on Feb. 28.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Devin Banerjee in New York at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  