-- Apple IPads Neutered for U.S. Government in CACI Mobile Push
-- B y   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2013-02-08T22:57:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/apple-ipads-neutered-for-u-s-government-as-caci-targets-mobile.html
CACI International Inc.  has altered
“thousands” of Apple Inc. iPads so they can be used securely
by the U.S. government, according to  Dan Allen , CACI’s chief
executive officer.  “It’s a neutered iPad,” Allen said today during a meeting
with Bloomberg Government reporters and editors. “We’re working
on how do we effectively brand it.”  The iPad work is one example of how the federal contractor
is investing in mobile technology to help offset reduced revenue
tied to the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, he said.  “We’re looking at how do you go chase that market and how
do you put partnerships in place,” Allen said. “The things
that we’re doing with  Apple  around mobility -- it’s a broad
market play.”  CACI, based in Arlington, Virginia, secures iPads for the
government by altering the hardware rather than by providing
software, Allen said. While the iPad’s wireless connectivity and
camera are among the features he said are risky in a top-secret
environment, he declined to provide details on how CACI secures
the devices.  A representative for Cupertino, California-based Apple
didn’t immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on
CACI’s work.  President’s IPad  Apple has been gaining traction in the federal government.
The Defense Department in October said it plans to open its
network for the first time to iPhones, as well as devices
running Google Inc.’s Android operating system.  The move may be a threat to Waterloo, Ontario-based
 BlackBerry , formerly known as Research in Motion, which has
counted on U.S. government users as commercial sales of its
wireless devices have declined.  IPad adopters within the government include  President Barack Obama , who has said he uses one to watch National
Basketball Association games.  Jay Stanley, a senior policy analyst with the New York-
based American Civil Liberties Union, in September wrote on the
organization’s blog that the president receives his daily
intelligence briefing on a neutered iPad. Stanley cited a
National Security Agency official.  The NSA didn’t immediately provide a comment, and  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, declined to comment on the
security of Obama’s device.  Allen said iPads used by U.S. government leaders are “most
likely a product that either came from us or came from someone
we work with.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  