-- Arch to Buy PMI Assets in $300 Million Mortgage Wager
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2013-02-08T21:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/arch-to-buy-pmi-assets-in-300-million-mortgage-wager.html
Arch Capital Group Ltd. , the Bermuda-
based insurer, said it’s adding assets from bankrupt insurer PMI
Group Inc. in a $300 million deal to enter the U.S. mortgage
guaranty business as the housing market rebounds.  Arch is acquiring CMG Mortgage Insurance Co. and PMI’s
mortgage insurance operating platform, and will hire staff from
PMI, the buyer said in a statement today. Arch will reinsure
some coverage written by PMI, avoiding the books that drove the
Walnut Creek, California-based firm to failure.  An improving U.S. housing market has attracted fresh
investors to mortgage insurance, after the worst housing slump
since the Great Depression hurt the industry. New insurer NMI
Holdings Inc. raised $550 million in private capital last year
to back home loans. Essent Guaranty Inc., whose backers included
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and PartnerRe Ltd., began writing some
policies in 2011 after buying assets from Triad Guaranty Inc.,
another hobbled mortgage insurer.  “We are extremely pleased to be able to provide a strong
source of private capital to a U.S. mortgage insurance market in
great need of capacity,”  Constantine Iordanou , chief executive
officer of Arch, said in the statement. Arch will benefit from
“significant opportunities in the U.S. mortgage insurance
marketplace,” he said.  U.S. home prices rose 8.3 percent in December from a year
earlier, the biggest jump since May 2006, according to data from
CoreLogic Inc. Higher housing values benefit mortgage insurers,
which pay lenders when homeowners default and foreclosures fail
to recoup costs.  Share Rally  Arch provides insurance for construction, health care and
environmental risks, and sells workers’ compensation and
medical-liability coverage. The company has about $5.75 billion
in capital and operates in the U.S. and Europe.  The insurer has gained at least 18 percent each of the past
three years in New York trading, and has climbed 11 percent
since Dec. 31. Arch rose 2.8 percent to $48.85 at 4 p.m. in New
York.  PMI filed for bankruptcy protection in November 2011 after
the Arizona Department of Insurance took over the main unit as
claims on sourced mortgages drained capital. Triad also had to
stop selling new policies when capital ran short, and Old
Republic International Corp. has scaled back from the market.  Firms including American International Group Inc., Radian
Group Inc., Genworth Financial Inc. and MGIC Investment Corp.
still offer the coverage.  Arch said it expects the deal to be completed within 12
months. The transaction needs approvals from an Arizona court,
insurance regulators, and government mortgage-finance firms
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Arch said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  