-- Arsenal Considers Club-Record Bid for Jovetic: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-08T05:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/arsenal-considers-club-record-bid-for-jovetic-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable Internet links.  Record Bid  Arsenal is considering a club-record 20 million pound
($31.4 million) bid for Fiorentina striker Stevan Jovetic, the
 Daily Telegraph reported .  Gunners manager  Arsene Wenger , who’s been scouting the 23-
year-old Jovetic for more than a year, turned his attention to
younger and more long-term options after trying to buy
Barcelona’s  David Villa , 31, last month, the newspaper said.  Wenger also wants to sign a right-back and another holding
midfielder as an option alongside  Mikel Arteta , with
Montpellier’s Etienne Capoue a target, the Telegraph added.  Lampard’s Future  Chelsea hasn’t approached  Frank Lampard  about a new
contract even after the England midfielder scored eight goals in
his past 12 games for club and country, the  Sun reported .  Lampard, 34, is free to start negotiations with overseas
clubs, though has made it clear he would prefer to finish his
career with the Blues, the Sun added.  Chelsea owner  Roman Abramovich  is said to be considering
offering Lampard an extension to his 150,000 pounds-a-week
contract that expires in June, the  Daily Express reported .  Real Resistance  Tottenham manager  Andre Villas-Boas  said his club must
qualify for the Champions League in order to resist potential
bids for  Gareth Bale , the  Guardian reported .  Real Madrid is monitoring Bale’s situation as the Spanish
club prepares an offseason offer for the Wales winger, who’s
scored 13 goals for Spurs this campaign, the newspaper added.  “The Champions League is where most of the clubs want to
be, and where most of the players want to play,” the Guardian
cited Villas-Boas as saying. “It’s part of our objectives so
hopefully achieving it means we can attract better players and
continue to hold on to our best players.”  Arsenal Return  Patrick Vieira  is in line for a return to Arsenal after
being sounded out about replacing Liam Brady as the club’s head
of youth development, the  Daily Mail reported .  The 36-year-old Vieira, who is currently Manchester City’s
football development executive, joined former Gunners teammate
 Dennis Bergkamp  on a shortlist of potential candidates for the
job, the Mail said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  