-- Europe Stocks, Commodities Rise as Spain Bonds, Yen Climb
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d ,   I n y o u n g   H w a n g   a n d   L e s l i e   P i c k e r
-- 2013-02-08T22:12:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/asian-stocks-drop-on-sony-europe-concern-euro-near-2-week-low.html
Stocks and commodities rose as
Europe’s leaders reached a budget agreement, China’s trade
expanded more than estimated and companies posted better-than-
forecast earnings. Spanish bonds gained and the yen rallied.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.6 percent to
1,517.93, the highest since November 2007, and the Stoxx Europe
600 Index gained 1.2 percent. Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average
sank 1.8 percent as Sony Corp. tumbled. The yen strengthened 1
percent to 92.77 per dollar, trimming its decline in the past
three months to 14 percent. Spain’s 10-year bond yield dropped
six basis points to 5.36 percent while U.S. Treasury rates fell
less than one basis point to 1.95 percent. Zinc, gasoline and
heating oil jumped at least 1.3 percent to lead commodity gains.  European Union leaders prepared the first-ever cuts in the
bloc’s budget after Mario Draghi, the central bank president,
said recent currency advances may slow price gains and the pace
of expansion. China’s trade surplus was $29.15 billion in
January, compared with a median projection for a $24.7 billion
excess. Japanese Finance Minister  Taro Aso  said the currency had
weakened faster than he anticipated.  “The trend’s been up all year and I don’t see anything
changing that,”  John Fox , a Cobleskill, New York-based fund
manager at Fenimore Asset Management, which manages about $1.5
billion, said in a telephone interview. “The structural
problems in Europe are not solved, but from the companies that
report their geographic breakout, Europe is flattish. It’s not
getting worse from an American corporation point of view.”  Market Leaders  Gauges of technology, consumer and energy shares rose at
least 0.8 percent to lead gains among the 10 main industry
groups in the S&P 500. LinkedIn Corp. surged 21 percent after
the online professional-networking service provider posted
earnings that beat estimates. Activision Blizzard Inc. rose 11
percent after the largest U.S. video-game maker more than
tripled fourth-quarter net income. Hewlett-Packard Co.,
UnitedHealth Group Inc. and Home Depot Inc. jumped at least 1
percent for the biggest gains in the Dow Jones Industrial
Average.  Trading volume  for S&P 500 companies was about 14 percent
below the 30-day average as the U.S. Northeast prepared for a
storm forecast to drop snow by the foot. Exchanges in New York,
which shut for two days in October when superstorm Sandy
battered the city, remained open all day and were ready to use
backup systems if needed.  “It’s business as usual,” NYSE Euronext spokesman Richard
Adamonis said by phone. “We do also have our contingency plans
in place.”  The S&P 500 has rallied more than 6.4 percent in 2013 as
U.S. lawmakers reached a budget compromise and earnings beat
estimates at  three-quarters  of the companies that reported
results so far, with profit growth of 8.8 percent on sales
growth of 3 percent. Financial companies have performed the
best, beating results by 14 percent, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  ‘Sustainable Recovery’  The benchmark equity gauge is about 3.1 percent below its
record high reached in October 2007. The index erased a weekly
decline today after falling earlier on renewed concerns about
the euro-area debt crisis. Its six-week advance is the longest
rally since August.  “Confidence is emerging here,”  James Paulsen , chief
investment strategist at Minneapolis, Minnesota-based Wells
Capital Management said in a television interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance with Tom Keene.” His firm oversees $332 billion in
assets. “People are finally deciding that this looks more like
a sustainable recovery.”  Valuations   The rally has left the S&P 500 trading at the most
expensive valuation in 18 months. The price-earnings ratio for
the U.S. equity benchmark has increased 25 percent to almost 15
since October 2011. That’s still 10 percent cheaper than the
average multiple of 16.6 from the past decade.  In Europe, the gain for the  Stoxx 600  was the biggest since
the first trading session of the year and trimmed this week’s
decline to 0.3 percent as a gauge of banking shares climbed 2.8
percent, the most in a month.  Ireland’s five-year note yields dropped nine basis points
to 2.82 percent after the nation won an agreement to restructure
the costs of rescuing the former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. Italian
and Portuguese bonds also gained, along with U.K.  and French
debt, while Germany’s 10-year bund retreated.  EU leaders agreed to a seven-year budget that cuts spending
for the first time, bowing to U.K. Prime Minister David
Cameron’s insistence on thrift.  The deal was struck after 25 1/2 hours of talks in
Brussels, according to a post on Twitter by EU President Herman
Van Rompuy today. While he didn’t disclose a figure, the final
draft blueprint for 2014-2020 included a spending ceiling of 960
billion euros ($1.3 trillion), down from an original proposal of
1.047 trillion euros and less than the 994 billion euros spent
in the current budget cycle.  ‘Prudent’ Cuts  “The European Union’s decision to cut the budget is a
prudent one,”  Richard Scrope , who helps manage the equivalent
of about $160 million at Oriel Asset Management LLP in London,
said in a phone interview. “The improvement in China’s data is
a positive for European equities.”  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc and 888 Holdings Plc
jumped more than 16 percent as New Jersey Governor Chris
Christie said he would be willing to allow a 10-year trial
period of online betting. TDC A/S fell 2 percent, the biggest
retreat in 10 weeks, as the Danish phone company’s private-
equity owners offered a 15 percent stake for sale.  Sony  tumbled the most since November 2008 after Japan’s
largest consumer-electronics maker reported an eighth straight
quarterly loss. Nissan Motor Co. fell as the nation’s second-
biggest carmaker posted third-quarter profit that fell short of
analysts’ estimates.  Yen Watch  The yen gained as much as 1.6 percent against the dollar,
the biggest advance since March 2011. The currency strengthened
1.1 percent versus the euro.  Japan’s currency is poised to strengthen more than 10
percent versus the dollar within six months, according to  Tom DeMark , the creator of indicators to show turning points in
securities.  Japanese Finance Minister Taro Aso said the pace of the
yen’s weakening had been too fast, speaking a week before a
meeting of global finance chiefs where Japan’s currency stance
is forecast to be an issue.  Aso’s comment to reporters in Tokyo today came after he
earlier told lawmakers the government hadn’t anticipated a rapid
move to around 90 per dollar. The yen slumped 13 percent since
mid-November in anticipation of monetary stimulus advocated by
Shinzo Abe, who took office as prime minister in December.  The New Zealand dollar climbed 0.2 percent to 83.49 U.S.
cents. The Australia rose 0.3 percent to $1.0317. The euro
slipped 0.2 percent to $1.3366.  Commodities, Emerging Markets  The S&P  GSCI  gauge of 24 commodities climbed 0.6 percent.
Zinc and copper advanced more than 1 percent, the first gain in
four days for both. China is the biggest buyer of industrial
metals.  Brent crude surged 1.3 percent to a nine-month high of
$118.81 a barrel in London after stronger-than-expected trade
data from China signaled increased fuel demand in the world’s
second-biggest consuming country.  West Texas Intermediate oil in New York fell, boosting the
European benchmark grade’s premium for an eighth day. China’s
exports rose 25 percent in January from a year earlier and crude
imports increased to the highest level in eight months, customs
figures showed. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said oil markets will
“remain tight” in the first quarter and may push prices above
its forecasts.  Oil may fall next week as technical indicators signal that
prices may have risen too quickly, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Crude Forecasts  Eighteen of 37 analysts, or 49 percent, forecast crude will
decline through Feb. 15. Twelve respondents, or 32 percent,
predicted an increase and seven forecast little change. Last
week, 42 percent of analysts projected a gain.  The relative-strength index of front-month oil futures rose
above 74 at settlement on Jan. 30, the highest level since Feb.
24, 2012. The RSI slipped to 56 today, the least since Dec. 24.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index  was little changed, capping
a 1.2 percent weekly loss. The Shanghai Composite Index jumped
0.6 percent. Trading volume was 19 percent less than the 30-day
average before markets close next week for the Lunar New Year.
OAO Gazprom dragged the Micex Index down 0.4 percent after
saying lower profit last year may lead to a cut in dividends.
South Korea’s Kospi Index rallied 1 percent, rebounding from a
10-week low. India’s Sensex slid 0.5 percent, dropping for a
seventh day in the longest losing streak since November 2011.  Brazil’s Real  Brazil’s Bovespa index added 0.2 percent while the real
currency touched a nine-month high as Finance Minister Guido
Mantega signaled that the government would allow the currency to
appreciate another 5 percent before the central bank intervened
to stem gains.  The real slipped 0.3 percent to 1.9727 per dollar after
rallying  to 1.9511, the strongest intraday level since May 11.
The real has gained 0.8 percent this week on speculation policy
makers will let it rise to contain inflation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net ;
Leslie Picker in New York at 
 lpicker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  