-- Asian Stocks Outside Japan Post Weekly Decline on Europe
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-02-08T23:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/asian-stocks-outside-japan-post-weekly-decline-on-europe.html
Asian  stocks  outside Japan fell this
week after the European Central Bank said the euro’s strength
could hamper an economic recovery. Japanese shares gained as the
yen fell after Bank of Japan Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said he
will step down ahead of schedule.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. , the Hong Kong-based clothier that
counts Europe as its biggest market, dropped 2.1 percent. Soho
China Ltd., the biggest developer in Beijing’s central business
district, sank 9.3 percent in Hong Kong after a report linked
the company to money laundering. Toyota Motor Corp. climbed 8.9
percent in Tokyo after the world’s biggest carmaker increased
its profit outlook to a five-year high.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Excluding Japan Index  slipped 0.5
percent this week to 476.25 as European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi yesterday said growth risks remain as European
Union leaders meet in Brussels to seek agreement on a budget.
Shares on the gauge advanced in the past five months amid signs
of economic recovery in China and the U.S.  “It’s a return of worries about Europe,” said  Shane Oliver , Sydney-based head of strategy at AMP Capital Investors
Ltd., which has about $126 billion under management. “The
market got very stretched and was due for a pullback, it was
just a question of what the trigger would be. We could still see
some further weakness this month.”  Japan’s Topix Index gained 1.6 percent this week, extending
its rally to a 13th week. The streak, the longest since 1973 has
boosted valuations for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. Asia’s
regional gauge traded at 14.8 times average estimated earnings
compared with 13.6 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a
multiple of 12.1 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Disappointing Results  The  Nikkei 225 Stock Average , Japan’s benchmark index, lost
0.3 percent this week, snapping a 12-week winning streak, after
companies including Nikon Corp. and Sony Corp. posted
disappointing earnings in Tokyo.  The  BSE India Sensitive Index  fell 1.5 percent this week,
the most among major Asia Pacific gauges, after the government
forecast the weakest economic growth in a decade. South Korea’s
Kospi Index slipped 0.4 percent, Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index
dropped 2.1 percent. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1
percent  The  Shanghai Composite Index  added 0.6 percent as reports
yesterday showed inflation gained and the nation’s exports rose
more than forecast in January. Markets in China and Taiwan will
be shut next week for the Lunar New Year holidays, while those
in Hong Kong will close from Feb. 11 through Feb. 13.  Europe Turmoil  Companies that do business in Europe dropped on speculation
political turmoil will make it difficult for governments to lead
their countries out of recession. Spanish Premier Mariano Rajoy
faces calls to resign amid contested reports about illegal
payments, and Italy’s Silvio Berlusconi narrowed the front-
runner’s lead before elections this month.  Esprit dropped 2.1 percent to HK$10.34 in Hong Kong. HSBC
Holdings Plc, Europe’s biggest lender, lost 1.9 percent to
HK$86.35.  Konica Minolta Holdings Inc. , a Japanese maker of
imaging equipment that gets 28 percent of sales from Europe,
slipped 4.3 percent to 711 yen.  Nikon slumped 19 percent this week to 2,077 yen after
Japan’s third-largest camera maker reduced its profit forecast
on slowing demand from Europe. Yamaha Corp. sank 11 percent to
857 yen after the maker of musical instruments lowered its full-
year earnings forecast to break-even.  “We are in a bull market, but investors are still
concerned about earnings,” said  Koji Toda , chief fund manager
at Resona Bank Ltd. in Tokyo, which oversees about $160 billion).  Sony Losses  Sony plunged 11 percent yesterday, the most since November
2008, after the maker of Bravia televisions and PlayStation game
consoles posted an unexpected loss. The decline pared gains
earlier in the week to a five-day increase of 0.7 percent at
1,365 yen.  Of the 291 companies on the MSCI Asia Pacific index that
have  reported earnings  so far this quarter and for which
Bloomberg has estimates, 52 percent have exceeded profit
expectations, while 48 percent missed forecasts, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  HTC Corp. sank 6.4 percent to NT$271.50 in Taipei after the
smartphone maker said  first-quarter revenue  will be between
NT$50 billion ($2 billion) and NT$60 billion, below the NT$64.8
billion average of analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Developers led the rout in Hong Kong, with Sun Hung Kai
Properties Ltd., the world’s biggest real estate company by
value, dropping 2.6 percent to HK$122.40 this week. New World
Development Co., which  led gains  in the benchmark Hang Seng
Index last year, fell 2.8 percent to HK$13.70.  “Lots of people are taking profits and worrying there will
be measures from the Hong Kong government to cool down the local
property market,”  Steven Leung , a Hong Kong-based institutional
sales director at UOB Kay Hian Ltd., said.  Money Laundering  Soho China slumped 9.3 percent to HK$6.27. The Beijing
Times reported a woman who may have been involved in money
laundering bought most of her 41 properties from Soho. The
newspaper cited comments posted to a microblog on Sina Corp.’s
Twitter-like Weibo service. The company denied the claim.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. fell 8.1 percent to
HK$8.61 in Hong Kong after Asia’s biggest refiner said it plans
to sell shares worth HK$24 billion ($3.1 billion) at a discount.  Shirakawa Steps Down  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. led gains among Japanese
lenders on speculation BOJ Governor Shirakawa’s replacement will
be more aggressive in fighting deflation. Shirakawa this week
said he and two deputy governors will step down on March 19, two
weeks before the end of his term.  Mizuho advanced 13 percent to 207 yen. Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., Japan’s biggest bank, added 3.1 percent to
531 yen. Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. rose 2.5 percent
to 3,745 yen.  Toyota  climbed 8.9 percent to 4,895 yen after Japan’s
biggest manufacturer raised its full-year net income forecast by
10 percent to its highest in five years. The shares have gained
almost 60 percent in Tokyo trading since the yen began tumbling
in mid-November, adding more than $50 billion in market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  