-- Asian Stocks Decline, Paring Weekly Gain as Sony Tumbles
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-02-08T09:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/asian-stocks-drop-erasing-weekly-gain-as-sony-slides.html
Asian  stocks  fell, paring this week’s
advance, after  Sony Corp.  posted an unexpected loss and the
European Central Bank said the euro’s strength could hamper an
economic recovery, damping the profit outlook for exporters.  Sony tumbled 10 percent after posting an eighth-straight
quarterly loss and cutting sales targets for TVs, gaming devices
and cameras.  GS Engineering & Construction Corp.  lost 7 percent
in Seoul, among the biggest declines on the Asian benchmark,
after reporting a fourth-quarter loss.  Fujitsu Ltd. , a Japanese
maker of computers, network equipment and mobile phones, gained
5.1 percent after saying it will eliminate 5,000 jobs and merge
its LSI chip business with Panasonic Corp.  About four stocks fell for every three that gained on the
 MSCI Asia Pacific Index , which fell 0.2 percent to 132.96 as of
6:14 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge is headed for a 0.2 percent gain
for the week.  “We certainly expect to see these shivers and worries from
Europe,” said  E. William Stone , who helps oversee $112 billion
as chief investment strategist at PNC Wealth Management.
“You’re probably wise to be a little less aggressive at the
current time just because we’ve had quite a run without much of
a pullback. Hence our recommendation to be a little more on the
defensive side.” Stone was speaking in a Bloomberg Television
interview with Zeb Eckert.  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  fell 1.8 percent to finish
the week down 0.3 percent, the first drop after 12 consecutive
weeks of gains through Feb. 1, the longest such winning streak
since 1959, according to Nikkei Inc. Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200
Index  climbed 0.7 percent today and South Korea’s Kospi Index
added 1 percent. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index rose 0.2 percent
and China’s Shanghai Composite Index advanced 0.6 percent.  Relative Value  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index, the benchmark regional
equities gauge, rallied 13 percent in the seven months through
yesterday. That left the gauge trading at 14.8 times average
estimated earnings compared with 13.6 for the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index and a multiple of 12.2 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sony lost 10 percent to 1,365 yen to lead declines on the
Asia-Pacific gauge. Japan’s biggest consumer-electronics
exporter cut its sales forecast for portable game players in the
year ending March to 7 million units from the 10 million
predicted three months ago and the 16 million forecast in May.
Its TV sales outlook was pared to 13.5 million units from a
projection of 17.5 million made in May.  GS Engineering  slumped 7 percent to 51,800 won. The firm
posted a 75.7 billion won ($69 million) loss for the fourth-
quarter, below 55.2 billion won net-income forecast by analysts
in a Bloomberg survey.  Fujitsu, Panasonic  Fujitsu  advanced 5.1 percent to 434 yen. The venture with
Panasonic will design large-scale integration, or LSI chips, and
contract out their manufacture, according to a joint statement
yesterday. The state-backed Development Bank of Japan has been
asked to help finance the venture, the companies said.  Newcrest Mining Ltd. rose 5 percent to A$24.52 as
Australia’s largest gold producer reported first-half profit
that was 9.6 percent higher than estimates, saying output would
increase this half.  Of the 275 firms on the MSCI Asia Pacific index that have
reported  earnings  so far this quarter and for which Bloomberg
has estimates, 52 percent have exceeded profit expectations.
Some 53 percent have missed sales projections, the data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Hong Kong’s market will be shut three days next week for
the Chinese New Year holidays, while mainland markets will be
closed all week.  China Exports  China’s exports and imports rose more than estimated in a
January that had five more working days than last year, helping
sustain a growth rebound in the world’s second-biggest economy.  European Central Bank President Mario Draghi told reporters
growth risk continues to be on the “downside,” accommodative
ECB policy will support the economy and the recent strength of
the euro create may damp inflation. An economic recovery should
begin later this year as an absence of inflation risks allows
the ECB to maintain record-low interest rates, he said
yesterday.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  were little
changed. The gauge slid 0.2 percent yesterday. The S&P 500 has
rallied almost 6 percent in 2013 as U.S. lawmakers reached a
budget compromise and companies reported better-than-estimated
earnings. The benchmark U.S. equity gauge is about 3.7 percent
below its record high reached in October 2007 after more than
doubling since bottoming in March 2009.  The Reserve Bank of Australia today reduced its economic
growth and inflation forecasts as investment outside the mining
industry remains elusive, the labor market softens and a high
local currency contains prices.  Chorus Ltd., New Zealand’s biggest telephone network
operator, rose 10 percent to NZ$3.15 in Wellington, the most on
record, after the government delayed proposed cuts to its
wholesale Internet pricing pending a review of industry
regulation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John McCluskey at 
 j.mccluskey@bloomberg.net  