-- Aso Says Pace of Yen Decline Too Fast With G-20 Set to Meet
-- B y   A n d r e w   J o y c e   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 2013-02-08T11:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/aso-says-he-didn-t-anticipate-rapid-yen-move-to-90-per-dollar.html
Japanese Finance Minister  Taro Aso 
said the pace of the yen’s weakening has been too fast, speaking
a week before a meeting of global finance chiefs where Japan’s
currency stance is forecast to be an issue.  Aso’s comment to reporters in Tokyo today came after he
earlier told lawmakers the government hadn’t anticipated a rapid
move to around 90 per dollar. The yen slumped 13 percent since
mid-November in anticipation of monetary stimulus advocated by
 Shinzo Abe , who took office as prime minister in December. It
rose as much as 1.6 percent today, the most since March 2011.  The yen’s drop spurred criticism abroad, with Aso’s South
Korean counterpart complaining about the risk to his nation’s
exports and Russia last month warning about the potential for
reciprocal action to drive down exchange rates. Finance
ministers and central bank governors from the Group of 20
nations are scheduled to meet in Moscow next week.  “Aso may be trying to cool the market’s momentum as
European authorities are criticizing Japan’s policies,” said
 Junko Nishioka , chief economist at RBS Securities Co. in Tokyo
and a former BOJ official. “His comments seem to be
inconsistent: one moment he’s talking down the yen, the next
he’s talking it up.”  The yen was up 1.2 percent at 92.53 per dollar as of 10:57
a.m. in London. It earlier increased the most since March 17,
2011, after Aso said in Parliament that “the yen’s sudden move
from 78 or 79 to 90 was not something we anticipated.”  Stock Rally  Abe won December’s election pledging to end deflation and
revive the economy. Companies from Toyota Motor Corp. to Nissan
Motor Co. have soared in recent weeks with the yen’s retreat,
and economists at banks from Goldman Sachs Group Inc. to Nomura
Holdings Inc. have boosted their projections for growth this
year. The Topix Index of stocks has surged about 33 percent
since elections were announced on Nov. 14.  “The question remains, however, how this verbal
intervention will be viewed by the G-20 ministers,” said  Callum Henderson , global head of foreign exchange research at Standard
Chartered Plc in Singapore. “There is a significant risk that
while the G-20 will support Japan’s right to ease policy, it may
ask Japan to stop talking about the currency.”  The yen weakened on Jan. 24 after  Yasutoshi Nishimura , a
deputy economy minister, said that a level of 100 per dollar
wouldn’t be a problem.  Shirakawa’s Exit  Investors’ views on the outlook for Japan’s currency may be
shaped by Abe’s choice of central bank chief, after Governor
 Masaaki Shirakawa  accelerated a leadership transition by
announcing that he’ll step down on March 19, ahead of schedule.  Potential candidates cited by analysts and local media
reflect a range of monetary policy outcomes. While Asian
Development Bank President  Haruhiko Kuroda  says the BOJ should
ease until it reaches 2 percent inflation and former BOJ Deputy
Governor  Kazumasa Iwata  has urged more expansive easing,  Toshiro Muto  warned of the dangers of prolonged loose policy when he was
deputy governor five years ago.  The government should unveil its nominations for the new
BOJ leadership team by the end of February, the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party said last month. While Abe’s coalition has a
majority in the lower house, it will need help from smaller
opposition parties in the upper house for its choices to be
confirmed.  ‘Currency War’  Japan is trying to deflect criticism that it is securing an
unfair advantage in trade by driving down the yen.  The world’s leading economies are on the brink of a
“currency war” to keep up with Japan and use devaluation to
boost their competitiveness, Russian central bank First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev  said at a conference in Moscow Jan.
16. Reciprocal devaluations would hurt the global economy,
Ulyukayev said.  Aso said on a television program on Feb. 3 that his
government isn’t aiming to depreciate the yen, and weakness in
the currency is a result of policies aimed at getting Japan out
of a deflationary recession.  European Central Bank governing council member  Jens Weidmann  last month warned against “politicizing” the yen
exchange rate.  Michael Meister , the parliamentary finance
spokesman for German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party, said that
Japan risks retaliatory action by G-20 nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Joyce in Tokyo at 
 ajoyce8@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo at 
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  