-- Assassins, Guerrillas Dramatize Boot’s Military Epic
-- B y   M a n u e l a   H o e l t e r h o f f
-- 2013-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/assassins-guerrillas-dramatize-boot-s-military-epic.html
Herodotus couldn’t help noticing the
capes made of flayed skin or the skulls fashioned into cups. The
Scythians liked to recycle and travel light as they tormented
the Persian army with hit-and-run attacks.  Max Boot ’s alternative military history is so marvelously
readable because every section -- and there are many in this
epic of 750 pages -- is moved along by a vividly pictured
zealot, mass murderer, mini-murderer, tactician, partisan,
general, king -- as well as the weary survivors of battles,
wars, massacres, atrocities.  Boot talked about “Invisible Armies: An Epic History of
Guerrilla Warfare From Ancient Times to the Present”
( Liveright/Norton ) over lunch at Bloomberg world headquarters in
New York.  Hoelterhoff: Interesting characters abound. Any favorites?  Boot: I liked those guerrilla chieftains who were
successful in using force to gain power, but then showed
themselves willing to abide by democratic norms in a way that I
think is rare for the leaders of insurgencies.  Garibaldi was such an amazing character. By the time he was
done he had conquered a good chunk of Italy and could well have
become its dictator by popular acclamation. Instead he said no,
I am returning to my tiny little island to live a spartan
existence because this was never about power for me, it was
really about the liberty of the Italian people.  The Assassins  Hoelterhoff: Any discoveries, surprises during your years
of research?  Boot: I am just remembering reading Michael Collins’s love
letters with his fiancee. They were sitting in an archive in
Dublin, which I think probably hasn’t changed all that much
since he was roaming the streets in the 1920s.  It was almost spooky because she kept telling him to be
careful and not risk his life. He would write back and say, “If
I were more careful I wouldn’t be the man that I am.” All this
was just a few months before he was assassinated.  Hoelterhoff: Which brings to mind the chapter you devote to
the Assassins, a small Shiite sect in medieval Persia which
targeted important foes and left the civilians alone. They
reported to Hasan-i Sabbah, a man so severe he executed his own
sons for drinking and bad behavior.  Boot: Which many a parent has thought of doing, without
taking it so far. The Assassins would scheme for years to gain
the confidence of their target and then suddenly, without
warning, would strike with their knives and would often in turn
be killed themselves.  This is sort of a template of how terrorism can be
effective, although this is also very different from the
terrorism practiced by  Osama bin Laden , who targeted civilians
indiscriminately.  Ratty House  Hoelterhoff: Worldly things did not interest either. Hasan-
I Sabbah holes up in a mountain hideaway he never leaves. Osama
dies in a ratty house judging by photos and “Zero Dark
Thirty.”  Boot: He was such an eccentric character aside from being
evil. He would say stuff like: You should not use refrigerators
because when we go on jihad there will not be refrigerators so
you better get used to drinking everything warm. He was not an
easy father to have.  Hoelterhoff: What did you think of the movie and the fuss
about the waterboarding?  Waterboarding  Boot: The film does a pretty good job of capturing what
intelligence operations are all about, what the manhunt was
about, how you build up the pieces of the puzzle over a decade.
And in the end, it really captured the incredible
professionalism and proficiency of the Seals in a way that, just
from my associations with them, rang pretty true.  As for the use of torture, it’s hard to know where to come
down.  I think most of us would agree that if the president has
information that a nuclear device is about to go off in
Manhattan and the CIA has a suspect in custody and they have 24
hours to extract that information, you can certainly understand
any president saying: Do whatever it takes.  But there is also a danger of using those kinds of
techniques too freely and brutally, and that ultimately just
hurts the morale of your own forces and darkens their reputation
in ways that undermine their mission.  To buy this book in North America click  here .  ( Manuela Hoelterhoff  is executive editor of Muse, the arts
and entertainment section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are her own. This interview was adapted from a longer
conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater, Greg
Evans and Craig Seligman on  movies .  To contact the writer on the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Jeffrey Burke in New York at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net . 