-- Audi Beats BMW in January Sales on A4 Car’s China Version
-- B y   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2013-02-08T10:46:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/audi-beats-bmw-in-january-sales-on-a4-car-s-china-version.html
Volkswagen AG ’s Audi started the year
beating luxury-car market leader  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG  in
monthly sales, propelled by a 39 percent jump in deliveries in
China, its biggest national market.  Audi sold 111,750 cars and sport-utility vehicles worldwide
in January, a 16 percent increase from a year earlier. That
compares with the BMW brand’s 12 percent gain to 107,276
deliveries posted by the Munich-based manufacturer today.  BMW, the world’s biggest luxury-vehicle maker since 2005,
is working to stave off challenges by second-ranked Audi and
third-place  Daimler AG ’s Mercedes-Benz unit for the top spot by
the end of the decade. Audi’s sales last month were boosted by
demand for the longer-body A4 sedan version targeted at the
Chinese market, the Ingolstadt, Germany-based brand said on Feb.
6. BMW said it’s targeting a third annual sales record for 2013.  “Audi might take the lead in one month or another this
year because of their strong market position in China, the main
growth market, but for the full year, I still expect BMW to be
ahead,” said  Christian Ludwig , a Dusseldorf-based analyst at
Bankhaus Lampe. “BMW has some product advantages, as they are
rolling out the 3-Series GT and the new 4-Series in the volume
segment this year.”  China’s Role  China became the  BMW  brand’s biggest national market last
year, and its sales in the country rose 14 percent to 28,597
cars and SUVs, according to  Linda Croissant , a spokeswoman.
Worldwide group sales by BMW, which also owns the Mini small-car
marque and Rolls-Royce ultra-luxury nameplate, rose 9.9 percent
to 123,276 cars and SUVs in January, a record for the month, the
company said today in a statement.  “Looking ahead, we expect the headwinds in Europe to
remain,”  Ian Robertson , BMW’s head of sales and marketing, said
in the statement. “However, we are confident of healthy sales
growth in other regions, especially Asia and the Americas.”  Global sales at Mercedes rose 9 percent in January to
94,895 vehicles, helped by demand for the A- and B-Class
compacts and its SUV line-up, Stuttgart, Germany-based  Daimler 
said on Feb. 5. Growth was damped as customers held off
purchases of the upscale E-Class and high-end S-Class sedans
until new versions of the models come out later this year.  Audi surpassed BMW in monthly sales three times in 2012,
most recently in August, Susanne Brieu, an Audi spokeswoman,
said by phone.  Daimler expects the global car market to increase 2 percent
to 4 percent this year, and is targeting stronger growth for
Mercedes, Chief Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said at a
Stuttgart press conference yesterday. Audi has outlined plans to
reach 2 million annual deliveries by 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  