-- Asia-Pacific Dollar Bond Sales Slump to 2013 Low as Costs Climb
-- B y   R a c h e l   E v a n s
-- 2013-02-08T04:49:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/australia-japan-bond-risk-increases-credit-default-prices-show.html
Dollar-denominated bond sales by
Asia-Pacific companies slid to a six-week low as rising costs
discouraged issuance before national holidays around the region.
Australian debt risk rose.  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. led $1.78
billion of sales in the region this week, the least since the
period ended Dec. 28, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The average yield on U.S. currency debt from Asian issuers rose
to a more than five-month high of 4.35 percent on Feb. 4,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.  The cost of insuring corporate bonds against non-payment in
Australia is on track for its fourth weekly increase, according
to traders of credit-default swaps. Markets in China, the
world’s second-biggest economy, will close for Lunar New Year
holidays Feb. 11 through Feb. 15. The festival also shuts
markets for part of the week in Hong Kong, Singapore and
Malaysia. Japan is closed Feb. 11.  “The recent week is just a pause from the strong issuance
of the last month,” said  Louisa Lam , a Hong Kong-based credit
analyst at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Given the long pipeline,
issuance will come back soon after Chinese New Year.”  Lam said yields will rise on new deals slightly, but not
significantly, by the end of March.  The Markit iTraxx Australia index advanced one basis point
to 119 basis points as of 11:24 a.m. in Sydney, Westpac Banking
Corp. prices show.  The Markit iTraxx Japan index climbed one basis point to
125 as of 9:20 a.m. in Tokyo, according to Citigroup Inc.
prices. The measure is on track for a ninth consecutive week of
decline, according to data provider CMA.  Default Swaps  The Markit iTraxx Asia index of 40 investment-grade
borrowers outside Japan was little changed at 115.5 as of 8:23
a.m. in Hong Kong, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc prices show.
The gauge, which started the year at 113.4, lost 92.9 basis
points last year, according to CMA, which is owned by McGraw-
Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the private
market.  Credit-default swap indexes are benchmarks for insuring
bonds against default and traders use them to speculate on
credit quality. A drop signals improving perceptions of
creditworthiness, while an increase suggests the opposite.  The swap contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities if a borrower fails to meet its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Evans in Hong Kong at 
 revans43@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  