-- Australian Probe Shows Need to Fight Criminal Threat, WADA Says
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-02-08T04:00:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/australian-probe-shows-need-to-fight-criminal-threat-wada-says.html
A report detailing common use of
banned drugs in elite Australian sports facilitated by organized
crime highlights the need for a global agency to fight the
threat, the head of the World Anti-Doping Agency said.  The Australian Crime Commission’s report made public
yesterday identified the use of substances including peptides,
hormones and illicit drugs across a number of sports in a nation
that had a reputation for having a predominantly drug-free
sporting culture.  WADA President  John Fahey  said the identification of
criminal networks in the supply and trafficking of performance-
enhancing substances in the report had come as no surprise to
the agency, which has been alerting sports and governments to
the menace for the last few years.  “This report offers further proof of the need for a global
organization dedicated to fighting this threat,” Fahey said in
a  statement . “WADA does not have the jurisdiction or the
resources to deal with the underworld’s growing influence on
sport, which also involves corruption, bribery and illegal
gambling.”  The commission’s findings, which were met today with front-
page headlines including “Sport on Trial” in the Sydney-based
Daily Telegraph, come amid increased international scrutiny of
sports after  Lance Armstrong  acknowledged doping throughout his
cycling career and European police said as many as 680 soccer
matches may have been the target of attempted fixing.  Coaches, Doctors  Sports scientists, high-performance coaches, support staff
and doctors were involved in the provision of banned substances,
according to the report. Because of the involvement of crime
gangs, the commission found that there is increasing evidence of
“personal relationships of concern” between athletes and
organized criminal identities and groups that may have resulted
in match fixing and betting fraud.  Legal constraints prevented the identification of any
particular sport, team or athlete in the report, Justice
Minister  Jason Clare  said in Canberra yesterday.  While the chief executives of the nation’s cricket, soccer
and rugby union bodies said there was no specific evidence
relating to their sports, “more than one player and more than
one club” in the National Rugby League were implicated, CEO
Dave Smith said.  “As the ACC report shows, science and analysis alone will
not eradicate doping in sport,” Fahey added. “There needs to
be greater focus on intelligence gathering and investigations,
and collaboration between government authorities across the
world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  