-- Hawke’s Mad Rocker Salvages ‘Clive’; ‘Rage’ Soars: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2013-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/hawke-s-mad-rocker-salvages-clive-rage-soars-review.html
From his electric blonde hair to the
boots he wields as weapons,  Ethan Hawke  fully embraces the role
of a rampaging monomaniac in the  New Group ’s headache-inducing
“Clive.”  The opening scene finds the nascent rock star snorting
powder off the breast of his manager’s wife, at a dinner party
celebrating his recording contract. Before dessert is served,
the contract will itself be so much dust.  Offered fame, Clive instead chooses drugs, debauchery and
dissolution, which come all too easily from the whorl of
sycophants abetting his descent into self-annihilation.  Based on  Bertolt Brecht ’s first play, “Baal,” a
youthfully messy X-ray of Weimar Germany, Jonathan Marc
Sherman’s adaptation, aggressively staged by Hawke, takes plenty
of risks. They never pay off.  Brecht’s anti-hero was a poet based on Rimbaud ( Peter O’Toole  played Baal in a famous London production in the early
1960s). Here, Clive, on the road to excess, croaks awful songs
and strums a black guitar covered with words in white. Zoe Kazan
repeats herself as a naif eager to shed her innocence, and the
fine  Vincent D’Onofrio , a refrigerator of a man, plays Lucifer,
beckoning his prey like the M.C. of “Cabaret”:  “Clive! Let everything go and come with me. To all the
other dive bars. To the churches. To the zoos and the barns and
the stables. God has forgotten you. Dancing. Music. Booze.
Soaking rain. Burning sun. Darkness. Light. Women. Dogs.”  Strutting and preening, Hawke is never less than
fascinating to watch. Still, one very long act of just under two
hours feels more like the morning after than the night before.  Through March 9 at the Acorn Theatre, 410 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-239-6200;  http://www.telecharge.com . Rating:
*  Anger Management  The last time I saw Martin Moran, he was gleefully clip-
clopping coconut halves on the stage of the Shubert Theatre as
an Arthurian knight with intestinal issues in “Spamalot.”  He was pretty irresistible then and he’s even more so now
in “All the Rage,” a potent and deeply moving monologue about
living with forgiveness without getting all mushy about it.  A lean, easy-going actor with an ingratiating mien, Moran
takes us on a journey that begins -- but doesn’t dwell upon --
his abuse by a camp counselor. It includes an unexpected
reconciliation with a hated stepmother and a journey to “the
cradle of humankind” near Johannesburg.  Seeking Asylum  Most powerfully, he tells of meeting Sibi, a refugee from
Chad seeking asylum in the U.S. after being imprisoned and
tortured for doing absolutely nothing. Using his fluent French
to serve as Sibi’s interpreter, Moran forges a touching bond
with this man who has little more than hope to subsist on.  Moran uses a globe, an opaque projector and little more to
tell a story regularly punctuated by the question: Where’s your
anger? This willingness to forgive sometimes gnaws at him,
making him question his manhood, his sanity.  He finds the answer in unlikely places and chance
encounters that I won’t reveal, but which left me humbled. And
amused, I must add. Don’t miss this gem of a show.  At the Peter Jay Sharp Theater, 416 W. 42nd St.
Information: +1-212-279-4200;  http://www.ticketcentral.com .
Rating: ****  ( Jeremy Gerard  is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include New York  Weekend  and  movies .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in New York at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 