-- Axius Fraud Case Cooperator Deserves Leniency, U.S. Says
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/axius-fraud-case-cooperator-should-get-leniency-u-s-says-1-.html
A Swiss financial professional
provided “excellent” cooperation in a case against former
 Axius Inc . Chief Executive Officer Roland Kaufman  and should
receive leniency at sentencing, federal prosecutors said.  Jean-Pierre Neuhaus, 54, who was charged along with Kaufman
in a case alleging manipulation of Axius’s stock price, should
get credit “for his substantial assistance,” prosecutors said
in a letter filed yesterday in Brooklyn, New York, federal
court.  “Neuhaus’s cooperation has been excellent,” wrote
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Ilene Jaroslaw  and U.S. Justice
Department lawyer Justin Goodyear.  “The scope of his cooperation has been broad, and his
clear and honest relating of the details of the conspiracy
significantly enhanced the understanding of the government and
the strength of the case against Kaufman,” the prosecutors said
in the letter.  The two men, both Swiss citizens, were arrested in March
2012 and accused of attempting to inflate the Dubai-based
company’s share price through a scheme to bribe stockbrokers.  They were caught after telling an undercover agent, who
they thought controlled a network of corrupt stockbrokers, to
direct brokers to buy shares of Axius owned or controlled by
Kaufman for a kickback of 26 to 28 percent of the share price,
according to the government.  Undercover Agent  Neuhaus agreed to cooperate with the government shortly
after his arrest and told prosecutors about additional
transactions he had engaged in with Kaufman before they
communicated with the undercover agent, according to the letter.  Kaufman pleaded guilty in January to one count of
conspiracy and faces an estimated sentence of 63 to 78 months in
prison under nonbinding federal guidelines. Neuhaus pleaded
guilty in October to a conspiracy charge and is scheduled to be
sentenced on Feb. 15 before U.S. District Judge  John Gleeson .  Prosecutors requested a “downward departure” from an
estimated range of 46 to 57 months.  “The government believes it is likely that Neuhaus’s
expected testimony at trial was a significant factor in
Kaufman’s decision to plead guilty,” prosecutors said in the
letter.  Axius is a “development stage company” which “intends to
link world cultures and business enterprise together under a
common umbrella,” according to a report filed in September with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In a June 2008
report, the company is described a developer of “wind and solar
powered boilers.”  The case is U.S. v. Neuhaus, 12-cr-00439, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  