-- Banks Should Defer Bonuses for Up to 10 Years, Jenkins Says
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2013-02-08T15:48:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/banks-should-defer-bonuses-up-to-10-years-boe-s-jenkins-says.html
Bankers’ bonuses should be deferred
for as long as 10 years to hold executives accountable for
risks, said  Robert Jenkins , a member of a Bank of England
committee charged with ensuring financial stability.  “Five years might or might not be appropriate for some
categories of risk, but if we are going to rely on remuneration
as a key driver of financial stability then it should probably
be between five or ten years,” Jenkins said in an interview
yesterday in Washington. “Ten years would capture the majority
of risk cycles and therefore the gains and losses that came from
any risk that was taken today.”  Jenkins’ comments echo those of  Andrew Haldane , another
member of the BOE’s Financial Policy Committee, and signal U.K.
regulators may continue to push banks to reduce risks. The
central bank, which is adding regulatory powers to its monetary-
policy remit, said in November banks may need to raise more
capital to cover loan losses and that they may have overstated
their capital strength.  The problem “is that very large sums of money can be given
to risk takers as a reward for the apparent profitability on the
risks that they take before the risks have matured and before
anyone knows for sure that it was profitable,” said Jenkins,
who was in Washington to attend a conference at the George
Washington University Law School.  FPC Powers  The FPC has been set up to use macroprudential tools to
ensure the resilience of Britain’s financial system, part of a
reshaping of regulation by the government.  It proposed powers last month to allow it to alter the
amount of capital banks hold against real-estate assets as well
as derivatives and bonds. While the panel will seek to act at
the “highest level,” it also sees a potential need to target
capital at a “more granular level,” it said in a draft paper
on Jan. 14. “Such an approach might help to tackle threats to
stability before they spread, particularly by leaning against
exuberance in specific subsectors.”  European regulators agreed on tougher bonus rules in 2011,
including minimum three-year deferrals, blaming large cash
payouts for encouraging the type of risk-taking that led to the
collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  and the subsequent
financial crisis. Haldane, who is also the BOE’s executive
director for financial stability, told U.K. lawmakers last month
that while progress has been made on remuneration codes, more is
needed.  “For my money, they still fall somewhat short of the
standards of prudence I would wish to see embedded,” he said.  Bonus Payouts  Banks are already cutting pay and increasing deferrals as
investors demand higher returns.  Deutsche Bank AG ’s bonus pool for 2012 will be 11 percent
smaller than the previous year, it said last month.  Barclays Plc 
will cap cash bonuses at 65,000 pounds ($103,000) for staff at
its investment bank and defer awards for senior managers,
according to a person with knowledge of the plans. The deferral
will see 2012 bonuses paid in one-third installments from 2014
to 2016, half in cash and half in stock.  Jenkins, who  previously worked  at Credit Suisse Group AG
and F&C Asset Management Plc, also called for higher capital
requirements and said “too-big-to-fail, too-big-to-bail and
too-big-to-jail” institutions remain a challenge for
regulation.  “Higher capital requirements and less leverage need not be
incompatible with economic growth and higher capital
requirements and lower leverage can be compatible with
shareholder value,” he said. But it “cannot be compatible with
both of those and prior levels of banking compensation.”  The Financial Policy Committee is led by BOE Governor
 Mervyn King  and makes recommendations on areas of financial
policy such as capital and liquidity. It is currently operating
on an interim basis as legislation passes through the U.K.
Parliament.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  