-- Banks May Have to Join Libor-Euribor Panels to Stop Exodus
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-08T12:09:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/banks-may-be-forced-by-eu-to-join-rate-setting-to-avoid-exodus.html
Europe’s top financial regulator said
he’s considering forcing  banks  to participate in setting Libor
and Euribor rates after lenders including  Citigroup Inc . and
HSBC Holdings Plc pulled out of some panels amid the rigging
scandal.  Regulators will draw up a list of lenders that should be
forced to participate in the setting of interbank rates “in
view of their involvement” in those markets,  Michel Barnier ,
the EU’s financial services chief, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “Any banks considering withdrawing from the contributing
panels should therefore take into account that they may be
required to rejoin,” Barnier said. The plans to force banks to
submit data for rate setting will be included in draft
legislation on benchmark setting that the European Commission
will present in the first half of this year.  Euribor-EBF, the group that administers the setting of
Euribor rates warned last month that it may face an exodus of
banks from its rate-setting panel. Rabobank International, the
biggest Dutch savings bank, withdrew from the panel that sets
the euro interbank offered rate in January, while Deutsche Bank
AG said this week that it would end participating in some
Euribor-EBF rates.  Rate-Rigging  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  this week became the
latest lender to be fined for manipulating rates. The bank’s
$612 million fine comes after penalties for  Barclays Plc  and UBS
AG for their role in rate-rigging. The scandal fueled public
anger toward banks, and pushed regulatory probes of lenders to
the top of the political agenda.  Much work remains to be done to ensure benchmarks “can be
relied upon to be a true reflection of prevailing borrowing
costs,”  Richard Reid , a research fellow for finance and
regulation at the University of Dundee in Scotland, said in an
e-mail. It’s understandable “that the authorities are keen to
involve as many of the major institutions as they can in the
setting of these key rates.”  The European Central Bank today  welcomed  Barnier’s
intention to legislate, and urged banks to take part in rate-
setting.  “The Eurosystem strongly encourages banks to remain in, or
join, the Euribor panel to prevent potential disruptions to the
functioning of the financial markets while the regulatory
framework is being refined,” the ECB said in a statement on its
website.  U.K. Regulator  “For such rates to remain representative, it is essential
that there is an appropriate level of bank participation in the
respective panels,” the Frankfurt-based ECB said.  Martin Wheatley , the managing director of the U.K.
Financial Services Authority, called last year for oversight of
Libor to be handed to the U.K.’s financial regulator, and dozens
of the currencies and maturities that make up the benchmark
axed, under proposals designed to revive confidence in the rate.  Wheatley was requested to carry out a review into the rate
setting by U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne .  Since September, Raiffeisen Bank International AG,
Rabobank, Bayerische Landesbank, DekaBank and Citigroup have
withdrawn from the setting of Euribor, according to Euribor-EBF
data.  Ten Banks  Since July, as many as ten banks have dropped out of the
setting of the Eurepo Index, which is also managed by Euribor-
EBF. These lenders include Societe Generale SA, UBS AG and HSBC.
Euribor is derived from a daily survey of interbank lending
rates conducted for Euribor-EBF by Thomson Reuters Corp.  Cedric Quemener, the manager at Euribor-EBF declined to
comment.  Libor is calculated by a poll carried out daily on behalf
of the British Bankers’ Association that asks firms to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies.  The top and bottom quartiles of quotes are excluded, and
those left are averaged and published for individual currencies
before noon in London.  Arjun Singh-Muchelle, head of EU affairs at the British
Bankers’ Association, declined to immediately comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  