-- Barclays CEO’s Ethics Talk Drowns Out Silence on Profit
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2013-02-08T10:39:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/barclays-ceo-s-ethics-talk-drowns-out-silence-on-profit.html
Barclays Plc  Chief Executive Officer
 Antony Jenkins’s  pledges to shred the legacy of his predecessor
and fix the lender’s culture are distracting from the difficulty
he has in reviving profit at Britain’s biggest investment bank.  Jenkins, who took over after  Robert Diamond  departed in the
wake of the bank’s fine for rigging Libor, is set to reveal the
conclusions of his six-month review of the lender’s operations
at London’s  Royal Horticultural Halls  on Feb. 12. While he may
cut about 2,000 jobs, pledge to reform culture and reduce pay to
boost returns, he’s unlikely to follow UBS AG and eliminate
entire business lines, according to investors and analysts.  That’s because the securities unit that Diamond built out
of the remains of Barclays De Zoete Wedd over the 15 years from
1996 still contributes about half of the lender’s profit. Still,
return on equity at the unit, a measure of profitability, has
shrunk by 23 percent in the past two years as regulators force
lenders to hoard more capital. U.K. regulators are also planning
to force the country’s lenders to erect firebreaks separating
their consumer and investment banks, a plan that may increase
the securities unit’s cost of funding, according to analysts.  “It’s going to be a promise deferred,” said  Julian Chillingworth , who manages 17 billion pounds ($27 billion) at
Rathbone Brothers Plc in London. “There’s a lot of moving
parts, and he doesn’t have much control over a lot of them.”  ‘Values Leaders’  Jenkins, 51, has asked 1,000 employees to become “values
leaders,” responsible for carrying a code of conduct to the
lender’s 139,000 employees. Those who don’t want to adhere to it
should leave, he has told workers. He also pledged to eliminate
units that don’t make enough money or pose a reputational risk
and told lawmakers he will resign in the event of a “grave
regulatory event” while he is in charge.  “We must never again be in a position of rewarding people
for making the bank money in a way which is unethical or
inconsistent with our values,” Jenkins said in a memo to
employees last month. A Barclays spokesman declined to comment.  Barclays will defer all 2012 awards for the bank’s 1,200
managing directors at the investment bank and pay bonuses up to
65,000 pounds in cash for more junior staff, according to a
person with knowledge of the plans. Managing directors’ bonuses
for 2012 will all be deferred and paid in one-third installments
from 2014 to 2016, half in cash and half in shares, said the
person, who asked not to be identified as the plans aren’t yet
public.  Junior Staff  For more junior staff, awards greater than 65,000 pounds
and less than 250,000 pounds will see 35 percent of the total
deferred and paid half in cash and half in stock. Any bonus over
250,000 pounds will be deferred, with half being paid in cash
and the rest in stock, the person said.  The shares rose as much as 1.7 percent to 297.50 pence in
London and traded at 295.45 pence at 10:32 a.m. local time. They
have gained about 13 percent this year, making them the best-
performing of Britain’s five biggest lenders.  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc  and  HSBC Holdings Plc  are up 8.9 percent and 10
percent, respectively, in that period.  ‘Muddle Through’  Changing the ethics may be easier than reviving profit. The
bank, which is also reporting full-year earnings, will post a
net loss of 155 million pounds for 2012, compared with a profit
of about 3 billion pounds a year earlier, according to the
median estimate of five analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Barclays
this week increased provisions for improperly sold loan
insurance and interest rate swaps by 1 billion pounds.  “They’ll have to just muddle through and make some noises
about culture,” said  Colin McLean , CEO of Edinburgh-based SVM
Asset Management, who helps manage 700 million pounds and sold
his stake in the lender after it was fined for manipulating
Libor in June. “I’m not sure they will do anything other than
limited cutbacks in the investment bank.”  Shareholders shouldn’t expect  Barclays  to repeat the
example of Switzerland’s biggest bank,  UBS , which in October
retreated from capital-intensive trading businesses at the
investment bank and announced plans to cut about 10,000 jobs,
said  Chirantan Barua , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “UBS has about 35 percent of its capital in investment
banking compared to 65 percent at Barclays,” London-based Barua
said. “Running down something like fixed income would be very
expensive” for Barclays. Instead, Jenkins may seek to cut pay
expenses, he said.  Job Cuts  Barua estimates that the average bonus for employees of the
investment bank may drop to 50,000 pounds by 2014 from 100,000
pounds in 2011, while about 3,000 jobs may go.  “Given there’s an oversupply of bankers globally I think
they can afford to reduce compensation quite a lot and retain
talent,” said  Cormac Leech , an analyst at Liberum Capital Ltd.
in London.  Barclays started eliminating some European investment
banking jobs in December and may make cuts in Asia, people with
knowledge of the matter said last month. About 2,000 jobs may
go, they said. Barclays employs about 24,000 at its investment-
banking unit globally.  In the third quarter, the investment bank contributed 937
million pounds, or 49 percent, of pretax profit, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Fixed income, currency and
commodities revenue over the same period was 1.58 billion pounds
out of 6.87 billion pounds for the lender, or about 23 percent.  ‘Aggressive’ Culture  Jenkins’s plan to overhaul what he describes as an
“aggressive” culture comes after the bank was fined 290
million pounds for manipulating the Libor benchmark interest
rate in June. That led to the departure of the bank’s CEO,
Chairman  Marcus Agius  and Chief Operating Officer  Jerry Del Missier . Separately, on Feb. 3 the bank’s finance director and
general counsel agreed to step down.  Rich Ricci , the head of the investment bank, and one of the
last remaining executives of the old management, in November
said the bank may curb businesses that harm the bank’s
reputation, such as tax advisory and agricultural commodities
trading.  Some “outlying” activities at the bank that aren’t
“socially useful” will be pulled back, Chairman  David Walker 
told the Parliamentary Commission on Banking Standards in London
this week. A sale of the investment bank hasn’t been discussed
by the board, Jenkins said at the time.  Jenkins in October told analysts he’s seeking returns above
the cost of equity, as the Basel III rules increase capital
requirements. The bank will trim areas of low profitability,
removing 15 percent or 40 billion pounds of risk-weighted assets
at the investment bank and reduce required capital by 4 billion
pounds, wrote  Mark Phin , an analyst at Keefe, Bruyette & Woods,
in a note to investors on Jan. 30.  The bank is unlikely to make changes to its U.K. consumer
and business banking unit or its wealth or cards units, which
are in-line with or above earlier targets, wrote  Phin . There is
scope for cost cutting at the continental European unit, which
includes Spanish and Italian consumer banks, and the corporate
bank outside the U.K., he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Howard Mustoe  in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  