-- BGK May Sell More Bonds to Fund Polish State Investments
-- B y   K o n r a d   K r a s u s k i
-- 2013-02-08T11:07:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/bgk-may-sell-more-bonds-to-fund-polish-state-investments.html
Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, the
Polish state-owned bank which finances government investments,
may return to the bond market in the second half of the year,
offering as much as 1 billion zloty ($322 million) of debt.  The Warsaw-based bank may issue bonds with maturity of at
least five years, deputy Chief Executive Officer Andrzej Ladko
said in an interview today. The lender hasn’t yet decided on
whether to sell the debt on the domestic or foreign markets.  In October BGK issued 1 billion zloty of bonds due in 2018
and last month the bank sold its entire 10.2 percent stake in
 PKO Bank Polski SA , the country’s biggest lender, for 4.39
billion zloty.  “Our liquidity position is very good after the PKO sale
and we don’t have any immediate debt sale plans now,” Ladko
said. “We don’t rule out a possibility of a debt sale in the
second half.”  The bank’s solvency ratio jumped to more than 56 percent
from 17 percent after the sale of the PKO stake, boosting its
lending capacity as the government plans more investment in
roads, pipelines and power plants to prop up the economy, Chief
Executive Officer Dariusz Daniluk said last month.  The government said last year that BGK’s capital will be
raised by 10 billion zloty in the next few years by transfering
stakes of state-controlled companies, which in the past had been
used to fund the budget deficit. The increase will allow BGK to
lend 40 billion zloty for investments. At the same time the
state is setting up Polskie Inwestycje Rozwojowe SA, a company
that will act as a private equity fund to provide further
capital for the projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Konrad Krasuski in Warsaw at 
 kkrasuski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David McQuaid at 
 dmcquaid1@bloomberg.net  