-- Bipartisan Letter Seeks Answers on Open-Government Failures
-- B y   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-02-08T22:47:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/bipartisan-letter-asks-obama-to-explain-open-government-failures.html
A U.S. House panel has asked the
Justice Department to explain why agencies have not implemented
President  Barack Obama ’s 2009 pledge to make government more
transparent by releasing records requested under the Freedom of
Information Act.  Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican who
is chairman of the House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee, and Maryland Representative  Elijah Cummings , the
panel’s top Democrat,  asked  Justice to explain why many agencies
haven’t followed an order to update procedures for complying
with the open-records law.  The letter seeking an explanation was sent to the Justice
Department’s Office of Information Policy, which oversees
government compliance with FOIA and provides legal advice on
requests for records.  They asked for copies of directives and other memos that
the office has sent to government agencies and an explanation of
why there continues to be an “excessive use and abuse of
exemptions” to avoid releasing government records, their letter
said. The lawmakers asked for a response from the administration
by Feb. 22.  On his first full day in office in 2009, Obama called FOIA
“the most prominent expression of a profound national
commitment to ensuring an open government.”  Holder’s Order  The congressional letter asked whether agencies had complied
with Attorney General  Eric Holder ’s 2009 directive ordering
agencies to update their FOIA response procedures.  “It is unclear whether agencies have fully adopted this
direction,” the lawmakers said.  In December, an open-government group released an analysis
that showed shortcomings in the Obama administration’s
transparency record.  The National Security Archive, a Washington-based
information repository, said in a Dec. 4  study  that 62 of the 99
government agencies it reviewed hadn’t updated their response
practices more than three years after Holder’s guidance was
issued. That study was cited in the lawmakers’ letter this week.  The committee’s attention “to open government is welcome”
because “it’s important for the administration to know that
Congress is watching and cares about these issues,” said  Steven Aftergood , who directs the government-secrecy project of the
Washington-based Federation of American Scientists. “Both
carrots and sticks are needed to make the system work.”  ‘No Excuse’  There is “no excuse” for “the failure by agencies to
update their FOIA regulations,” Aftergood said in an e-mail.  Bloomberg reporters in June tested Obama’s pledge to
“usher in a new era of open government.” FOIA requests were
filed to obtain records on taxpayer-supported travel in fiscal
year 2011 for 57 Cabinet departments and government agencies.  Only eight agencies complied within the 20-day deadline.
About half of those contacted by Bloomberg disclosed the data
within three months of the filings. As of Dec. 12, eight more
agencies had responded with the information, bringing the total
to 38 out of 57.  Former Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton ,  Kathleen Sebelius  of the Department of Health and Human Services and
Holder himself were among those who hadn’t complied.  ‘Illegal’ Fees  The committee also sought information about outdated FOIA
regulations and the “exorbitant and possibly illegal fee
assessments” that are charged for searching for documents and
determining whether they can be released.  Office of Information Policy Director  Melanie Ann Pustay 
also was asked by lawmakers to explain why there was a 21
percent increase in the length of time it took to process
requests between 2010 and 2011. The increase in processing
backlogs was almost three times the increase in requests that
the government received for records releases, the letter said.  Lawsuits filed in federal district court to force the
government to comply with FOIA requests have surged under Obama.  FOIA-related complaints jumped 28 percent to 720 in the
last two years of Obama’s first term from 562 in the last two
years of President  George W. Bush ’s second term, according to  a
study  by the  Transactional Records Access Clearinghouse .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Ellis at 
 dellis5@bloomberg.net  