-- Boeing Risks $700 Million Tanker Overrun, Air Force Says
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2013-02-08T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/boeing-risks-700-million-tanker-overrun-air-force-says.html
Boeing Co.  may have to absorb as much
as $700 million in cost overruns on the refueling tanker the
company is developing for the U.S. Air Force, about $300 million
more than previously estimated, according to the service.  Boeing, which is developing the KC-46A tanker using its 767
commercial airliner, is responsible for all costs exceeding the
development-stage contract’s $4.9 billion ceiling, the Air Force
said.  The new, higher estimate was disclosed in response to an
inquiry about the latest cost projections for what’s planned as
a 179-aircraft, $51.7 billion program including research,
production and aircraft support.  “The government’s projection of Boeing’s potential
liability has increased to about $700 million,” Air Force
spokesman Charles Gulick said in a statement. “Government
liability is capped,” and any additional “financial liability
is completely borne by Boeing.”  The Air Force said its estimate of the cost to complete the
development contract is $5.6 billion, up from the $5.3 billion
projected in 2011 in the service’s annual cost report to
Congress. Chicago-based Boeing estimates the cost at $5.1
billion, according to the service.  The new estimate was based on a review of trends in Boeing
costs and schedule data submitted as part of the company’s
“earned value management” system, the Air Force said in the
statement.  Boeing Response  “While it is not Boeing’s policy to release information on
our internal costs, we are meeting the cost and the schedule
targets that were established in our” proposal, Jerry Drelling,
a spokesman for Boeing’s tanker program, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “Our current estimate of the cost to complete” the
engineering, manufacturing and design phase “is consistent with
our estimate at the time we developed our bid,” Drelling said.
“There are no additional costs that will accrue to the
government.”  The estimated value for purchasing four development tankers
and 175 production planes includes $40.2 billion for
procurement. A decision on going into full-rate production is
scheduled for June 2017.  Boeing beat out  European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. 
for the tanker contract in February 2011, ending an almost 10-
year process.  The next month, EADS decided not to protest the award.
 Ralph D. Crosby , who was chairman of EADS North America, said
Boeing won the contract on “an extremely low-ball offer.”  Profit Later  James Bell , who was Boeing’s chief financial officer, told
analysts on an earnings conference call in July 2011 that “we
have always bid this contract thinking this, on the development
phase, would be a very low profitability or break-even.”  “The profit would be generated as we started producing the
tanker,” Bell said. “So nothing has changed from that
philosophy. Nothing has changed from our bid.”  EADS’s role in the Air Force tanker replacement program
began in February 2002 when the Pentagon sought information from
its Airbus subsidiary and Boeing before deciding to lease 100
Boeing 767s.  That proposal was scuttled after Arizona Republican Senator
 John McCain  questioned the leasing plan. A Boeing investigation
found that  Michael Sears , Boeing’s chief financial officer,
discussed a job for  Darleen Druyun , an Air Force procurement
officer, while she was representing the service in the tanker
talks.  Sears and Druyun were convicted of violating federal
conflict-of-interest laws.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  