-- Bolshoi Ballet Star Accuses Management of Stalin-Era Hunt
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-02-08T15:37:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/bolshoi-ballet-star-accuses-management-of-stalin-era-hunt.html
The Bolshoi ballet’s principal
dancer,  Nikolai Tsiskaridze , accused management of waging a
Stalin-era witch-hunt against him as a rift widened over an acid
attack last month on the theater’s artistic director.  Police are investigating the possible involvement of
Bolshoi ballet members and employees of the theater in the Jan.
17 attack that damaged  Sergei Filin ’s eyes and face, Interfax
reported, citing an unidentified law enforcement official.  “Just like in 1937 under Stalin, they are organizing
meetings against me and forcing people to sign letters against
me,” Tsiskaridze, 39, said in an  interview  with the British
Broadcasting Corp. posted on its website today. “This happened
a week ago. And they refused, all the ballet masters refused.”  Rivalry within Russia’s most famous theater, which was
founded in 1776 by Catherine the Great, has become public since
the attack, with Georgian-born Tsiskaridze and the Bolshoi’s
general director,  Anatoly Iksanov , trading accusations.  Iksanov said in an interview with Russia’s Snob magazine
posted on its website this week that Tsiskaridze was probably
behind the online release of gay pornographic photographs
resembling the Bolshoi’s then-director, Gennady Yanin, that led
to his resignation in 2011. While Iksanov didn’t accuse
Tsiskaridze of ordering the attack on Filin, he said the dancer
had created an atmosphere that led to the tragedy and had
lobbied to be appointed artistic director.  Hacking, Tampering  Filin has said that before the assault, when a masked
assailant threw acid at his face as he arrived outside his home
in Moscow, someone tampered with his mobile phones and hacked
his e-mail and  Facebook Inc.  account.  Tsiskaridze, who denies involvement in the attack, accused
Filin of seeking to turn one of his pupils against him in
December by offering her a part in Swan Lake if she stopped
taking lessons with him, a proposal he says she refused. He also
said he doubted the official version of the assault because if
acid had been used, Filin would have had more severe injuries.  The Bolshoi’s spokeswoman, Katerina Novikova, said the
theater’s lawyers were studying the possibility of suing
Tsiskaridze for damage to its reputation, declining to respond
to his comments to the BBC.  Filin, who flew to Germany for further treatment after he
was discharged from the hospital this week, said he’ll identify
who was behind the acid attack that threatens his eyesight once
an investigation is complete.  Moscow police’s press service declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News today. Police will identify the
suspects publicly only after detaining and charging them,
spokesman Andrei Galiakberov said in a Feb. 4 interview.  “This is a case that’s generated huge public interest in
Russia and internationally, given that it involves the Bolshoi
Theater, and we’ll devote every effort to uncovering the
culprits,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  