-- Bovespa Posts Weekly Drop on Concern Over Currency Policy
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-02-08T21:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/bovespa-index-futures-fall-as-stronger-real-dims-exports-outlook.html
The Bovespa index posted its biggest
weekly loss since November on concern Brazil’s currency policy
will drive away foreign investors.  Pulp company  Fibria Celulose SA  was the worst performer on
the gauge as the real touched a nine-month high, dimming the
prospects for exporters of commodities.  Souza Cruz SA , Brazil’s
biggest tobacco company, tumbled after reporting earnings that
trailed estimates.  The  Bovespa  rose 0.2 percent to 58,497.83 at the close of
trading in Sao Paulo, erasing an earlier decline and paring this
week’s slump to 3.1 percent. The real slid 0.3 percent to 1.9727
per dollar after the central bank intervened to stem gains. It
earlier rallied to its strongest level since May as Finance
Minister Guido Mantega signaled Brazil would allow the currency
to appreciate another 5 percent.  “Investors don’t like when the government starts changing
its policies so often, especially when it comes to something so
vital like the currency,”  Alexandre Ghirghi , a portfolio
manager at Metodo Investimentos in Sao Paulo, said in a phone
interview. “This is particularly important for foreign
investors, and they account for a big chunk of the trading on
the Bovespa.”  Fibria declined 3.4 percent to 23.52 reais. Souza Cruz lost
1.2 percent to 32.06 reais.  The real rose earlier today as Reuters cited Mantega as
saying that the government will curb the currency if it reaches
1.85 per dollar. The currency erased gains after the central
bank intervened by selling reverse foreign-exchange swaps for
the first time since October.  Overseas Investors  Foreign investors accounted for 40 percent of all stock
trading on the Sao Paulo exchange in 2012, according to data
from BM&FBovespa SA.  The Bovespa has dropped 7.6 percent from this year’s high
on Jan. 3 amid concern that accelerating inflation may curb
Brazil’s economic recovery and that the government’s
interventionist policies will hurt profits in industries
including utilities and energy.  Brazil’s benchmark equity gauge  trades  at 10.8 times
analysts’ earnings estimates for the next four quarters,
compared with 9.7 for MSCI’s measure of 21 developing nations’
equities, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  