-- Brazil Ignores World Cup Costs to Lift Housing: Mortgages
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2013-02-08T17:14:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/brazil-ignores-world-cup-costs-to-lift-housing-mortgages.html
The Brazilian government isn’t
letting an economic slowdown, the World Cup or the Olympics get
in the way of its efforts to help everyone from slum dwellers to
young professionals buy homes.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is using federal subsidies and
state-bank loans to boost housing after economic expansion
slowed for a second year in 2012 and mortgage growth declined.
Home price gains are also decelerating after rising 58 percent
since 2010.  “The market is trying to correct itself” and “the
government is throwing more money at it to keep it expanding,”
said Adolfo Sachsida, an economist in Brasilia at the Institute
for Applied Economic Research, a federal government agency that
evaluates public policy. “This market employs a lot of people
and they want to keep it heated so employment doesn’t drop.”  Rousseff is pumping more money into the housing market even
as  interest rates  remain at the lowest in Brazil’s history, and
annual inflation is running above the central bank’s target for
29 months. As economic growth fell to the slowest pace among
major emerging-market economies last year, she nearly doubled
spending on Brazil’s plan to build 2 million low-income homes by
2014, a goal made more expensive as preparations for the World
Cup being held that year, and the Olympics in 2016 contribute to
higher construction costs.  Home Lending  The amount of home loans outstanding grew 38.2 percent in
2012, down from a pace of 44.5 percent in 2011 and 51.1 percent
in 2010, which was the fastest since 1992, according to central
bank data. Total credit outstanding increased by 16.2 percent
last year.  The government’s measures are helping to sustain prices,
setting the stage for a fall once interest rates climb from
record lows, according to Sachsida, who co-authored an IPEA
 report  last August that said the government is fostering a real-
estate bubble.  “When rates rise abroad, Brazil will be forced to raise
rates here too. When they do that, it’s going to hit a
population that is already very indebted, and that’s going to
pop the bubble,” he said.  The views expressed in the report don’t reflect the opinion
of the organization, according to a press official at IPEA in
Brasilia, who asked not to be identified in accordance with
their policy.  “The majority of analysts have concluded that there is no
risk of a real estate bubble,”  Dyogo Oliveira , deputy executive
secretary at the Finance Ministry, told reporters in Brasilia
Jan. 31. “At the moment there is no need for concern.”  The Finance Ministry didn’t respond to a request for
further comment.  Middle Class  While 35 million Brazilians entered the middle class in the
past decade, according to the Rio de Janeiro-based Getulio
Vargas Foundation, the government estimates there is a housing
deficit of 6.3 million homes.  Rousseff increased spending on her low-income housing
initiative, dubbed Minha Casa, Minha Vida (My Home, My Life), by
93 percent to 11.2 billion reais ($5.7 billion) from January
through November 2012, according to the Treasury.  The government has twice lifted price caps on homes that
are eligible for program subsidies since 2009, to as much as
190,000 reais in Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo, as soaring land
prices prompted homebuilders to lobby for higher payouts to
cover construction costs.  World Cup  Preparations for the World Cup and Olympics also have
increased demand, the IPEA report said.  “The program of public works trying to modernize and
invigorate some cities for the World Cup in 2014 and the
Olympics in Rio in 2016 has been contributing to the
appreciation of real estate prices.”  Rising prices are undermining the original goal of the
government’s program to reach Brazil’s poorest, because
homebuilders are focusing on building more expensive homes that
are still within the subsidy scheme, according to Claudia
Magalhaes Eloy, a professor of architecture and urbanism at the
University of Sao Paulo.  “While those increases may be partially credited to
improvements in the housing units, they seem to be mainly
explained by developers’ pressures to accommodate escalating
costs, due in part to land speculation,” Eloy, Fernanda Costa
and Rossella Rossetto wrote in a fall 2012 article for the
journal Housing Finance International. “This imposes threats to
the continuity of the subsidy policy and causes important
impacts on the housing market, reducing affordability.”  From April 2009 to May 2012, just 40 percent of the homes
contracted to be built were destined for families in the lowest
income tier, according to Eloy.  Price Limits  Minha Casa, Minha Vida has price limits to ensure that
homes remain affordable for beneficiaries of the program,
Patricia Gripp, head of communications for the Ministry of
Cities, which administers the program, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions.  “The program stimulates not just demand for real estate
credit, but it also expands the production of new units on a
large scale,” she wrote. “An increase in supply tends to
control the price of units.”  The government has delivered 1 million homes under the
program, generating 1.4 million  jobs  as of December 2012,
according to Caixa Economica Federal, the largest mortgage
lender in Latin America and the main conduit for Brazil’s
federal housing subsidies.  Delays Plague  Minha Casa, Minha Vida also isn’t immune to the delays that
typically plague infrastructure projects in Brazil. Marcelo
Montenegro, the 65 year-old founder of Fortaleza-based
homebuilder Montenegro Construtora, waited five months last year
for state-owned Caixa and the city to sign off on final
approvals for his low-income housing development in Jurema, a
suburb of Fortaleza.  During the wait, he said, he was forced to hire private
security guards at a cost of 200,000 reais to protect the
buildings after squatters took over a neighboring building with
plans to rent or sell the apartments.  “It was absurd, I suffered a lot,” said Montengero, who
said he has since met with representatives from Caixa and the
police to try and resolve bottlenecks and improve security.
“The police and city did nothing to stop it,”.  A press official for Caixa in Brasilia, who asked not to be
named in accordance with internal policy, wrote in an e-mailed
response to questions that Caixa approved the project in a
timely fashion. Caixa has worked with the municipality and the
state secretary of public security so that they act with agility
in the issuance of documents and help to solve the situation
mentioned, according to the official.  Accelerate Construction  In an effort to accelerate construction under the program,
Rousseff in 2011 tapped Brazil’s other federally-owned lender,
Banco do Brasil SA, to begin lending in the lowest-income tier
of the program.  Banco do Brasil offered financing for 114,000 new housing
units in 2012, including 50,349 units for the lowest income
tier, and 64,000 units for the second and third more expensive
tiers. Its goal is to finance 450,000 units by the end of 2014,
Gueitiro  Matsuo Genso , the bank’s head of real estate credit,
said in an interview in November.  Banco do Brasil, which entered the home loan market in
2009, increased overall mortgage lending 75 percent to 11.35
billion reais last year. Brasilia-based Caixa increased home
lending 33.8 percent last year to 101 billion reais.  Falling Investment  Brazil’s unemployment rate fell to a record low 4.6 percent
in December as companies anticipated lower borrowing costs, tax
breaks and increased public spending to fuel growth. Still, the
second-largest emerging economy grew just 1 percent last year,
the central bank estimates, less than the U.S., China, and
Japan.  Investment in Brazil’s economy dropped 3.9 percent in the
first three quarters of 2012 from the year-earlier period, after
a 4.7 percent increase in 2011, according to the Brazilian
Institute of Geography and Statistics.  With local industry struggling to compete globally and a
more aggressive stance on rooting out corruption spurring delays
in infrastructure investment, the government is leaning on home
construction as a means to boost growth, according to  Jefferson Finch , an analyst at political risk consulting firm Eurasia
Group.  “They see it as an important driver for investment and
growth, and it pays a political dividend,” Finch said by phone
from New York. “There’s a focus on addressing the housing
deficit but also the focus on home ownership in the new middle
class, which is going to be a really important sector for any
government in the future to have the support of.”  Home Prices  Brazilian home prices are likely to keep pace with
inflation rather than appreciate beyond it for the next three to
six months as buyers look for stronger signs of an economic
recovery, according to Eduardo Schaeffer, chief executive
officer of Sao Paulo-based Zap Imoveis, which publishes the
FipeZap home price index in partnership with the Foundation for
Economic Research.  “The market is not exactly cooling off, but it’s being a
little more conservative,” Schaeffer said by phone from Sao
Paulo. “There’s no longer that fever to buy a home at any price
and sell shortly after. It’s more in line with inflation, which
is reasonable.”  Luxury Apartments  The average price per square meter in 16 Brazilian cities
rose 0.9 percent in January to 6,350 reais, according to the
FipeZap index.  In Sao Paulo’s Pinheiros neighborhood, homebuilder  Even
Construtora e Incorporadora SA  will begin construction in April
on a 47-unit luxury apartment building with an indoor and
outdoor pool and a tennis court. The average price of the 332
square-meter units, which have four bedrooms, six bathrooms,
including maid’s quarters, and a glassed in patio, is 4 million
reais. About 30 percent of the units have been sold since
efforts began in October, according to Izilda Albanez, a broker
for Even.  Residential areas like Pinheiros, or the beachfront
neighborhood of Leblon, in Rio de Janeiro, represent the extreme
in home price appreciation, according to  Octavio Lazari Junior ,
president of the mortgage lenders association known as Abecip
and executive director at Banco Bradesco SA.  The rise in property prices in Brazil since 2009 was caused
by a series of factors, including the stabilization of the
economy, stronger foreclosure laws so banks could gain
possession of homes in default, which made them more willing to
make mortgage loans, improvement in the quality of homes being
built, and investments for the World Cup and Olympics, Lazari
Junior said.  Brazilian Homebuyer  The typical Brazilian homebuyer makes a down payment of
about 60 percent on a new home purchase, which reduces the
chance of default if the value falls, Lazari Junior said. At the
same time, slow economic recoveries in the U.S. and Europe make
the chance of a sharp increase in interest rates unlikely, he
said.  “There is not the slightest risk of a real estate bubble
in Brazil,” Lazari Junior said by phone from Sao Paulo. “What
we will have going forward is real estate prices adjusted for
inflation. They will not fall.”  The Brazilian government’s housing policy would be more
effective if it donated some of the land it controls for low-
income housing construction, rather than handing over more cash
to homebuilders to keep up with price increases, according to
Sachsida of IPEA. The government is unlikely to relinquish that
power, he said.  “Brazilians’ biggest dream is to have their own home, so
of course any policies that make this easier are welcome,” he
said. “This is worsening access to home ownership, because the
way it’s being done is increasing home prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Gabrielle Coppola  in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at   robprag@bloomberg.net  