-- Real Declines From Nine-Month High on Intervention After Mantega
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2013-02-08T20:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/brazilian-real-rises-to-nine-month-high-as-mantega-sets-ceiling.html
Brazil’s real fell from a nine-month
high after the central bank intervened to stem gains triggered
by Finance Minister Guido Mantega when he signaled the
government would allow the currency to rise another 5 percent.  The currency slid 0.3 percent to 1.9727 per dollar at the
close in Sao Paulo after rallying 0.8 percent to 1.9511, the
strongest intraday level since May 11. The real gained 0.8
percent this week on speculation policy makers will let it
advance to contain inflation. Swap rates due in January 2015
fell two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.17
percent, paring their increase since Feb. 1 to 18 basis points.  The real rallied earlier today as Mantega said in an
interview with Reuters that the government will curb gains in
the currency if it reaches 1.85 per dollar. The currency then
erased its advance after the central bank intervened by offering
reverse foreign-exchange swaps for the first time since October.  “Mantega mentioned 1.85 as a potential new ceiling but
interventions today signal that appreciation will be managed
gradually in line with rising inflationary concerns,”  Bernd Berg , an emerging-markets strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG,
said by instant electronic message.  The currency rose yesterday after a central bank board
member said in a phone interview with Bloomberg News that
inflation is high, spurring speculation that policy makers will
let the real strengthen to contain consumer prices.  Mantega’s View  The government may increase taxes on foreign inflows or buy
dollars to thwart currency speculation, Mantega said in the
interview with Reuters. Exchange-rate policy hasn’t changed and
Brazil won’t allow speculative appreciation of the real, the
Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg
News. The central bank auctioned $502 million of reverse
currency swaps, selling 10,000 of 37,000 offered.  “Mantega gave a new ceiling for the market to test,”
 Reginaldo Galhardo,  a currency trader at Treviso Corretora de
Cambio in Sao Paulo, said in a phone interview. The level of
“1.85 per dollar has become the new uncrossable limit, with the
ceiling for central bank tolerance changing once again.”  Brazil pushed the real down 9 percent in 2012 and 11
percent in the prior year as Mantega said major economies were
debasing currencies such as the dollar while driving up those of
developing nations.  Rather than having the desired effect of boosting the
economy, the weaker real did little more than spur inflation,
which has exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of the central
bank’s target range for 29 months.  Stronger Real  The real traded last week at a level stronger than 2 per
dollar for the first time since July as Brazil took steps
including exempting foreigners from a tax on real-estate funds
traded on the stock exchange, encouraging speculation that
inflows would sustain the currency.  Swap rates fell today after central bank President
Alexandre Tombini said in an interview with GloboNews that
annual inflation won’t exceed the 6.5 percent upper limit of the
central bank’s target range in the first half of 2013.  Policy makers held the  target lending rate  at a record low
7.25 percent last month for a second straight meeting after the
slowest two years of economic expansion in a decade. The central
bank has lowered benchmark borrowing costs by 5.25 percentage
points since August 2011 in the most aggressive cuts among Group
of 20 nations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  