-- Brazil Prepares to Surprise Drillers This Time With Gas
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-02-08T14:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/brazil-prepares-to-surprise-drillers-this-time-with-gas.html
As Brazil prepares for its first-ever
auction of shale-gas acreage, it has a message for global
prospectors: The country that discovered the world’s biggest
offshore oil finds this century may have almost twice as much
natural gas onshore as is currently estimated.  Brazil’s energy regulator known as ANP made the assertion
in a preliminary estimate of potential reserves, in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News. The estimate is 88 percent higher than the U.S.
Energy Information Administration’s  calculation  that Brazil may
have 226 trillion cubic feet of gas held in shale, a sedimentary
rock increasingly being harvested for fuels around the world.  The forecast may assure that Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
billionaire Eike Batista take part in the Dec. 14-15 government
auction of shale-gas blocks. Europe’s biggest energy company and
the  billionaire  who controls Brazil’s second-largest oil company
by market value both expressed interest in joining the nascent
shale boom in Latin America, six years after Brazil’s so-called
pre-salt basins proved to hold the biggest finds since 2000.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is seeking to cut dependency on
liquefied natural gas imports, used in electricity generation.
While more than 80 percent of Brazil’s power is hydroelectric, a
dry spell that pushed dam levels to the lowest since 2000 has
forced authorities to order the use of fossil fuel-burning
plants without having enough domestic gas to feed them.  “There is a gas shortage,” Ruaraidh Montgomery, a senior
analyst at oil and gas researcher Wood Mackenzie, said by phone
from Houston. Domestically produced shale gas “will be very
good looking from a below-ground perspective. The challenges are
above ground,” to secure available workers, satisfy local
content rules, and the size of the service sector, he said.  Pre-salt Gas  The U.S. estimate includes only one basin, and there could
be another 200 trillion cubic feet of gas spread through four
other areas,  Brazil’s regulator  said, in response to questions.
Given the country’s gas demand of 885 billion cubic feet in
2011, if 10 percent of the additional reserves are pumped, they
alone could supply the country for about 22 years at its current
consumption rate.  The U.S. estimates are the best published so far, ANP said.
The regulator reached its larger estimate by drawing an analogy
between the geology of four Brazilian on-shore basins and the
U.S. Barnett shale basin, it said. The analogy is not a firm
projection, only a point of reference, it said.  Natural gas has gained in world markets less than oil in
the past decade. Next month gas traded on the U.K.’s ICE
exchange declined in three of the last 10 years, while Brent oil
futures have increased in all but one year in the period.  First Well  Shale deposits exceed Brazil’s so-called pre-salt gas
reserves, ANP head  Magda Chambriard  said last month to
reporters, in Rio de Janeiro. Brazil also holds other types of
unconventional gas, such as so-called tight sands and carbon
gas, according to the ANP. Pre-salt refers to Brazil’s off-shore
deposits, the world’s biggest crude discoveries this century.  Shell , already Brazil’s third-largest oil producer, is
preparing to drill its first on-shore gas well in the second
half of the year while it waits for the ANP to issue rules for
the December auction, the company’s press office said in an e-
mailed response to questions.  Shell will drill in the state of Minas Gerais, where
closely-held Petra Energia SA is becoming the leading
unconventional gas explorer in Brazil, focusing on so-called
tight gas sandstones and tight gas carbonates, according to an
e-mailed response to questions. The company has discovered gas
in 12 of 14 wells it drilled in the Sao Francisco basin.  Unconventional gas gives companies an opportunity to
operate blocks in Brazil where state-run  Petroleo Brasileiro SA ,
or Petrobras, is guaranteed a majority stake in all pre-salt
operations.  Bolivia Imports  Discovered in 2007, the pre-salt reserves hold at least 50
billion barrels of oil equivalent, according to ANP. They lie
below a layer of salt under the Atlantic seabed as far as 300
kilometers from the coast of Rio de Janeiro.  Brazil’s main source of gas imports today is Bolivia, which
supplies more than one-third of its demand. The country also
imports liquefied natural gas, or LNG, to process at two plants.  LNG imports reached 8.6 million cubic meters a day in 2012
and are expected to rise to about 10 million cubic meters a day
this year, driven by demand from power plants,  Jose Santoro ,
Petrobras’s head of gas and energy, told reporters Feb. 5.  Given the need to use  gas  to produce power, discovering
shale gas and other unconventionals would be “ideal” for
Brazil, Mauricio Tolmasquim, head of the government’s energy
policy agency, or EPE, said Jan. 28.  “Unconventional could be more competitive than pre-salt,”
Marcelo Mendonca, an official at Gas Energy, a Brazilian
consulting firm, said in an interview in Rio de Janeiro.
“Currently our gas in Brazil is expensive so it makes all the
sense to develop technologies to produce gas.” 