-- Business Gains Seen in U.S. Standards for Power Plants
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-08T05:01:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/business-gains-seen-in-u-s-standards-for-power-plants.html
Rules to cut greenhouse-gas emissions
from operating U.S. power plants will be a boon for companies
willing to invest in clean energy, said  Carol Browner , a former
Environmental Protection Agency administrator.  “By setting these standards, there will be business
opportunities that are created,” Browner said yesterday during
an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Peter Cook for
“Capitol Gains” airing Feb. 10.  “There will be companies that can develop the new
technologies,” she said. “Perhaps we’ll look more to
renewables. We’ll look to greater energy efficiency.”  President  Barack Obama  in his second-term inaugural address
said he will respond to threats from climate change, citing
drought and more powerful storms, setting up a potential
conflict with owners of coal-fired plants including  Southern Co. 
of Atlanta and  American Electric Power Co.  of Columbus, Ohio.  Browner, a former Obama adviser, said the administration
will propose rules to regulate emissions from existing plants in
addition to those the EPA is proposing for new facilities.  The Supreme Court ruled the agency had to act, if the
emissions were found to “endanger public health and welfare,”
Browner said.  “EPA made that scientific finding, so now they
have to do this.”  Existing Plants  If the EPA imposes the same requirements for existing
plants that are being considered for new facilities, “about 25
percent of the gas plants that are running in the country
wouldn’t meet that standard,”  Thomas Kuhn , president of the
Edison Electric Institute, a Washington-based industry group for
publicly traded utilities, said during a Feb. 6 interview at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York.  In response to a question, Browner said it remains to be
seen whether the rules will force companies to develop gas-
trapping technologies in response.  The Obama administration is considering action on an array
of other energy-related issues, including oversight of hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, used to extract gas from shale and
possible export of liquefied natural gas over objections of
manufacturers such as  Dow Chemical Co .  “The game changer is natural gas,” said Browner, who is a
member of Bloomberg Government’s advisory board. “The question
is what natural gas does both to coal, and ultimately to
renewables and efficiency as we go forward.”  Gas Glut  Advances in drilling in shale formations have produced a
glut of natural gas. Futures prices for the fuel on the New York
Mercantile Exchange have declined about 75 percent since July
2008, leading to investment in natural gas at the expense of
other forms of generation including coal and nuclear.  The EPA should regulate hydraulic fracturing, though that
is “probably not likely,” said Browner, who led the agency
from 1993 to 2001 under President  Bill Clinton . If the task is
left to the states, as proposed by Republicans such as
Representative  John Shimkus  of Illinois, “we’re going to see a
patchwork of requirements, which quite frankly is going to be
hard on industry,” she said.  In its first four years, the Obama administration issued
loan guarantees for wind- and solar-energy projects and
increased fuel-efficiency standards for autos in addition to
writing rules for power plants.  “We have a real opportunity to position the U.S. in the
global demand for clean-energy technology,” Browner said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  