-- Caesars Soars on Online Gambling Hopes, Vegas Revenue Jump
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-02-08T21:09:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/caesars-soars-as-gambling-in-las-vegas-registers-13-increase.html
Caesars Entertainment Corp. , the
largest owner of U.S. casinos, gained the most since its first
day of trading as Las Vegas Strip revenue rose and New Jersey
moved closer to allowing bets online.  Caesars, controlled by  Apollo Global Management LLC  and TPG
Capital LP,  advanced  38 percent to $13.91 at the close in New
York. That was the best rise since the Las Vegas-based company
almost doubled on Feb. 8, 2012.  Boyd Gaming Corp ., co-owner of
the Borgata in Atlantic City, leapt 10 percent.  Caesars jumped 78 percent this week. The shares rose 19
percent yesterday after New Jersey Governor  Chris Christie  said
he’s willing to allow a 10-year trial of online gambling in
Atlantic City, where Caesars has four casinos. The stock added
12 percent on Feb. 4, when the company said it may raise money
by selling a stake in its online operation and two properties.  Gambling on the Las Vegas Strip, where the company operates
Caesars Palace, Harrah’s and other properties, increased 13
percent in December to $588.2 million, the Nevada Gaming Control
Board said today in a statement. That marked an acceleration
from previous months, with revenue from July to year-end
advancing 5.1 percent, the agency said.  Christie requested only minor changes to the online
gambling bill, which should pass both houses of the legislature
in the next month, according to Senator  Raymond Lesniak , a
Democrat from Elizabeth who sponsored the measure.  September Start?  That would pave the way for casino operators to begin
taking online bets from state residents by September.  Internet gambling could generate as much as $210 million in
revenue for Caesars and $84 million in earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, according to  Susan Berliner , an analyst at J.P. Morgan Securities.  The New Jersey legislation could also lead other states or
the federal government to adopt online gambling rules, Berliner
said in a report yesterday.  European online gaming stocks also rose on the New Jersey
news, with  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc  up 16 percent
and  888 Holdings Plc  gaining 17 percent in London to its highest
in more than four years. 888 has a software licensing agreement
with Caesars.  Caesars went public a year ago by selling 2.1 million
shares at $9 each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  