-- Canadian Stocks Rise as Bank Rally Overshadows Economy
-- B y   S a r a h   P r i n g l e
-- 2013-02-08T21:32:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/canada-stocks-climb-as-financials-energy-producers-rally.html
Canadian stocks rose as advancing
energy and financial companies overshadowed data showing an
unexpected drop in jobs and a slump in the pace of home starts.  Petrobank Energy & Resources Ltd. surged 5.4 percent as
Brent crude climbed to a nine-month high. Financials rallied, as
 Manulife Financial Corp.  and Brookfield Asset Management Inc.
added at least 2 percent.  Heroux-Devtek Inc. , a maker of
aircraft landing gear, slid 1 percent as third-quarter profit
fell short of analysts’ estimates. Just Energy Group Inc., the
electricity and natural gas utility, tumbled 13 percent after
cutting its dividend.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index  climbed 45.31
points, or 0.4 percent, to 12,801.23 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. Seven
of 10 industry groups in the index rose. About 717 million
shares traded hands on Canadian exchanges today, or about 5.9
percent below the three-month average. The gauge climbed 0.3
percent this week, extending its gain for the year to 3 percent.  “Today we’re in the normal post-earnings consolidation
phase in markets generally, and Canada’s no different,”  Bob Decker,  a money manager at Aurion Capital in Toronto, said in a
phone interview. His firm manages about C$6 billion. High
volatility in the employment data means “we’re just giving back
some of the strong gains from last year.”  Canadian employers unexpectedly cut jobs in January while
home builders slowed the pace of new construction to the least
since 2009, suggesting a languid start to the new year for the
country’s economy. Employment fell by 21,900 in January on
declines in manufacturing and education, Statistics Canada
reported today.  Energy Jumps  Energy shares  rallied, as Petrobank jumped 5 Canadian cents
to 97 Canadian cents, for the best performance in the benchmark
index today. Talisman Energy Inc., an oil an gas producer,
rallied 1.3 percent to C$12.75, its highest level since October.  Brent crude surged to a nine-month high in London.
Stronger-than-expected trade data from China signaled increased
fuel demand in the world’s second-biggest consuming country.
China’s exports rose 25 percent in January from a year earlier
and crude imports increased to the highest level in eight
months, custom figures showed.  “Energy has been under pressure for a while, with prices
coming off, so I think people taking a longer-term view are
beginning to see that there’s some good value,”  Michael Sprung, 
president of Toronto-based Sprung & Co. Investment Counsel Inc.,
said in a phone interview.  Financial Shares  Financial shares contributed the most to gains in the
S&P/TSX. Brookfield, the global asset management company, jumped
95 Canadian cents to C$38.82, its highest level since October
2007. Sun Life Financial Inc., the country’s third-largest
insurer, advanced 1.2 percent to C$29.37.  Manulife Financial , Canada’s largest insurer, climbed 30
Canadian cents to C$14.84. Manulife Mutual Funds said it
surpassed $20 billion in assets under management in 2012.  Catamaran Corp., the fourth-biggest drug-benefits manager,
fell 2.7 percent to C$51.71. A Wedbush Securities report
suggested the company may not have a chance to buy Cigna Corp.’s
pharmacy plans.  Heroux-Devtek , the aerospace manufacturer, slid 9 Canadian
cents to C$9.40. The company reported third-quarter profit of 11
Canadian cents a share, falling short of analysts’ estimate of
14 Canadian cents.  Just Energy Group tumbled C$1.31, the most since November
2006, to C$8.47. The company cut its quarterly dividend to 7
Canadian cents from 10.33 Canadian cents and trimmed its gross
margin forecast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Pringle in New York at 
 springle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  