-- Canadian National Halts Study on C$5 Billion Quebec Line
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-02-08T18:42:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/canadian-national-halts-study-on-c-5-billion-quebec-line.html
Canadian National Railway Co. 
suspended preliminary work on a C$5 billion ($4.99 billion) rail
line in northern Quebec amid delays in mining projects.  The Montreal-based railroad said in August it secured the
support of mining companies including  Cliffs Natural Resources
Inc.  to prepare a feasibility study on the proposed rail line.
Cliffs Natural, based in Cleveland, said three months later it
would delay part of its Bloom Lake mine expansion, citing
volatility in iron ore prices and declining use of the mineral
by North American steelmakers.  “The feasibility study is on hold and we haven’t
determined whether we will resume it,” Louis-Antoine Paquin, a
Canadian National spokesman in Montreal, said today in a
telephone interview. “The pause is linked to several factors,
including an evaluation of the timeline. We also have to
evaluate with the mining companies which projects are on ice.”  Former Quebec Finance Minister  Raymond Bachand  unveiled the
rail project last year.  Benoit Poirier , an analyst at Desjardins
Securities in Montreal, said in a March 2012 note to clients
that the proposed 800-kilometer (500-mile) long line would
probably cost about C$5 billion, with Canadian National
contributing two-thirds of the amount, and could open as soon as
2017.  Labrador Iron Mines Holdings Ltd., New Millennium Iron
Corp., Cap-Ex Ventures Ltd. and Alderon Iron Ore Corp. had also
agreed to work with Canada’s largest railroad on the feasibility
study. The proposed rail line and a terminal handling facility
would serve the Quebec/Labrador iron ore range.  Canadian National was working with Caisse de Depot et
Placement du Quebec, the country’s second-largest pension fund
manager, on the project.  Maxime Chagnon , a spokesman for Caisse
de Depot, confirmed the decision in an e-mailed message.
Montreal’s Le Devoir newspaper first reported the suspension.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  