-- Canada Dollar Falls Second Day as Employment Unexpectedly Drops
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-02-08T13:47:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/canada-dollar-falls-second-day-as-employment-unexpectedly-drops.html
Canada’s currency weakened for a
second day against its U.S. counterpart as employment
unexpectedly dropped, fueling concern the world’s 11th-largest
economy is slowing and the central bank will take longer to
raise interest rates.  The currency traded weaker than parity with the U.S. dollar
for the first time in five days. The Canadian dollar fell
earlier against the majority of its most-traded peers even as
strong trade data from China buoyed the currencies of other
commodity exporters. The Bank of Canada has kept its  key rate  at
1 percent since 2010 to spur the economy.  “Markets will probably will react a little negatively just
because of the headline figure,” said  David Madani , an economist
at Capital Economics, in a telephone interview from Toronto. “I
don’t think markets will overall react too strongly to this. I
think economists have circulated the view we’ve had really
unusually strong growth previously in employment and there tends
to be some payback or correction.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is nicknamed for the
image of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.4
percent to C$1.0023 per U.S. dollar at 8:46 a.m. in Toronto. It
touched C$1.0031, the weakest level since Jan. 31.  Employment fell in January for the first time in six
months, dropping by 21,900 jobs following December’s gain of
31,200, Statistics Canada said today in Ottawa. The unemployment
rate fell to 7 percent from 7.1 percent, the lowest since
December 2008’s 6.8 percent, as fewer people looked for work.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News projected a 5,000 job gain
and 7.2 percent unemployment.  Interest Rates  BOC Governor Mark Carney said Jan. 23 the need to raise
interest rates is less urgent than previously thought because
Canada’s economy will take longer to reach full output. Policy
makers said an increase in the rate may still be needed over
time.  Trading in overnight index swaps before the data was
released showed investors priced in 5.4 basis points, or 0.054
percentage point, of tightening by the Bank of Canada by its
December meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  