-- Carbon Glut Fueled by Generous EU Cap, Climate Mundial Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-02-08T17:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/carbon-glut-fueled-by-overgenerous-eu-cap-climate-mundial-says.html
Europe’s glut of emissions permits is
the fault of regulators’ overgenerous allocation of the
allowances, rather than the region’s economic slowdown,
according to carbon-market adviser Climate Mundial Ltd.  U.K. companies won allowances for about 410,000 metric tons
of carbon dioxide per 1 billion euros ($1.4 billion) of gross
domestic product in 2010, or 47 percent more than needed under a
2005 European Union economic model that measures so-called
carbon intensity, said  Daniel Rossetto , a Climate Mundial
director in London. Austria, Greece and Spain got at least 15
percent more permits in the five years through 2012 than the
model indicated they would need, Rossetto said.  “By choosing not to go deeper in its cutting of the
allocations and because it didn’t install any system to deal
with oversupply, the commission left the whole program
vulnerable,” Rossetto said in a Feb. 5 interview. “The surplus
wasn’t caused by economic recession.”  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm,  blames 
the region’s economic crisis for contributing to an 85 percent
plunge in carbon prices from a peak in 2008. The surplus of
permits in the EU’s emissions trading system may rise to about 2
billion tons by 2020,  Jos Delbeke , the commission’s director
general for climate said in Brussels on Feb. 6.  “There’s a surplus of allowances that needs to be
tackled,” said  Isaac Valero-Ladron , a spokesman for EU Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard. “That’s why the commission has
put forward both short-term and long-term measures to address
the problem.”  Less Intense  By 2011, carbon intensity across the EU dropped below the
level assumed in the bloc’s so-called Primes model, Rossetto
said in a January report. That means factories and utilities
needed fewer permits, contributing to the carbon surplus.  The EU’s carbon intensity model assumptions are based on a
price of 5 euros a ton, Rossetto said. That compares with an
average 13.50 euros a ton since ICE Europe first offered futures
on the allowances in April 2005. Carbon futures for December
fell to a record 2.81 euros a ton on Jan. 24.  The carbon surplus will surge 80 percent from current
levels to about 1.8 billion tons by May as factories and power
stations use cheaper United Nations offset credits in April to
comply with their 2012 emissions allowances, said Rossetto.  The market’s total supply will be 2.29 billion tons this
year, according to a Feb. 4 estimate by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance in London.  Avoiding Curbs  The EU introduced the carbon system in 2005 to help meet
the emission-reduction targets under the 1997 Kyoto Protocol.
The bloc decided to give free allowances to factories to prevent
them from leaving the region to avoid the greenhouse-gas curbs.
It reduced the number of free allowances in 2008 by 6.5 percent
after prices slumped to 1 euro cent a ton a year earlier.  EU carbon for December rose 8.3 percent today to 4.55 euros
a ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London.  The EU should install a system that adjusts each year’s
emissions cap five years in advance, a practice already
established in the Australian carbon market, according to
Climate Mundial.  Under the commission’s November plan to temporarily fix the
glut, known as backloading, 900 million tons of allowances will
be removed from the market in the next three years and returned
near the end of the decade.  New Surplus  Backloading is not the correct policy response in this case
because it will create a new surplus in a few years, Rossetto
said. While policy makers say they want intervention to be a
one-off, the nature of their plan will actually increase the
chance another rule change is needed closer to 2020, he said.  Should backloading be approved it will probably become a
cap change “sooner or later,” Jens Teresniak, an energy
economist in the trading and generation unit of Stadtwerke
Leipzig GmbH in Leipzig, Germany, said in an e-mailed response
to questions. “In my opinion no one really believes that these
allocations will be brought back to market in 2019 and 2020.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  