-- Carney Backs BOE Evolution Over Revolution in Favoring Guidance
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-02-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/carney-backs-boe-evolution-over-revolution-in-favoring-guidance.html
Bank of England Governor-designate
 Mark Carney  signaled more evolution than revolution is imminent
when he takes over the U.K. central bank in July.  His first extended comments on U.K. monetary policy since
being named to the post three months ago showed him welcoming
debate on an altered remit rather than backing immediate change.
The remarks yesterday, alongside his doubting of alternative
policy goals previously floated, suggested that he is likely to
advocate tweaks rather than replacement.  Carney favored allowing the Bank of England greater
flexibility in meeting its oft-breached inflation target and
promoted the case for handing investors more insight into the
future path of policy. The Bank of Canada governor, who will
replace  Mervyn King , spent four hours addressing Parliament’s
Treasury committee at the same time as his future colleagues
were announcing they would sustain stimulus.  “He sees merit in the forward guidance as policy
instrument and he stressed the importance to have a debate,”
said  Mauro Giorgio Marrano , an economist at UniCredit SpA in
Milan. “The main change after his arrival could therefore take
place on this aspect should more easing be required.”  While Carney said “slack in the economy” warrants
sustaining aid, he focused less on whether that would mean
further asset purchases and more on how to use communications to
secure cheaper market borrowing costs and encourage greater
spending by households and businesses.  The 47-year-old will inherit an economy currently flirting
with a third recession since 2008 as inflation enters a fourth
year above the central bank’s 2 percent goal.  Ignoring Shocks  In a further sign that a radical makeover is not in the
offing, Carney commended the BOE’s stance in the face of surge
in headline inflation to more than 5 percent at one point.  “The Monetary Policy Committee has quite appropriately
looked through a series of one-off upward shocks,” he told
lawmakers. “It has appropriately provided stimulus to an
economy facing very large headwinds.”  The MPC echoed Carney’s language in a statement
accompanying its decision to leave its target for bond purchases
unchanged at 375 billion pounds ($589 billion). It said it was
“appropriate to look through the temporary, albeit protracted,
period of above-target inflation.”  Carney’s Inspiration  Carney drew inspiration from his own work in Canada, three
years after its central bank announced it would keep its
interest rate at a record low until mid-2010 unless the
inflation outlook changed. He also praised the Federal Reserve’s
strategy of setting unemployment and inflation parameters which
would need to be met before stimulus is unwound.  “To achieve a better path for the economy over time, a
central bank may need to commit credibly to maintaining highly
accommodative policy even after the economy, and potentially
inflation picks up,” Carney said. Fed-style thresholds would
help convince investors of the dedication to stimulus, he said.  U.K. officials have resisted telegraphing, with King and
other policy makers arguing it would be wrong to lock in future
decisions and saying it’s hard to commit nine people to agree on
a policy path amid turnover on the MPC.  “Things like communication will change, but it may not be
on day one,” said  Richard Barwell , an economist at Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc and an ex-BOE official. “In five years,
when he leaves, they’ll be communicating in an open and
transparent way.”  Inflation Tolerance  Although Carney pressed for a review of the Bank of
England’s 2 percent goal -- largely unchanged since inflation
targeting was introduced in the U.K. two decades ago -- he
indicated a preference for keeping it in place alongside more
tolerance if it’s breached for a lengthy period.  A delay in meeting the mandate can be worthwhile if there
is a threat to the stability of the economy or financial
markets. The U.K. has been slow to recover from the recession,
contracting anew in the  fourth quarter  and facing drags from a
fiscal squeeze and a sluggish euro-area economy.  The BOE highlighted the flexibility of its existing
framework yesterday. While inflation may remain above 2 percent
for the next two years, longer than King forecast last month,
the MPC said its remit is to deliver price stability, but “in a
way that avoids undesirable volatility in output.”  “We already have a fair amount of flexibility in U.K.
inflation targeting,” said  Simon Wells , chief U.K. economist at
HSBC Holdings Plc.  Michael Saunders , chief western Europe economist at
Citigroup Inc. in London, said Carney laid the ground for a
switch to a band of 1 percent to 3 percent with the bank aiming
at the center over time. That would “retain the crucial
commitment to low inflation, but make the flexibility of the
framework clearer,” he said.  Target Review  Having triggered the debate on possible reform in December,
Carney said yesterday he had already held talks on the issue
with Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne . Even if it
ended with the status quo and so long as it was short enough to
avoid fanning uncertainty, a review could reinforce the bank’s
credibility by increasing understanding of its work, he said.  Still, he was less supportive of shifting to another
target. He said he was “far from convinced about the merits”
of eyeing a level of nominal gross domestic product, while a
higher inflation goal would risk “destroying the hard-won
gains” earned from securing price stability.  “The benefits of any regime change would have to be
weighed carefully, not only against the potential risks, but
also against the effectiveness of other unconventional monetary
measures under the proven, flexible inflation-targeting
framework,” he said. “The bar for change is very high.”  Poised to become the first foreigner to run the British
central bank since its founding in 1694 and the recipient of a
250,000-pound housing allowance on top of a 480,000-pound base
salary, Carney added a benchmark outside economics for measuring
the success of his five years in the U.K.  “More generally, I would like to achieve an exit in 2018
that is less newsworthy than my entrance,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  