-- Catamaran Slides as Analyst Suggests Cigna May Keep Unit
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-02-08T18:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/catamaran-slides-as-analyst-suggests-cigna-may-keep-unit.html
Catamaran Corp ., the fourth-biggest
drug-benefits manager, fell the most in three months after a
Wedbush Securities report suggested the company may not have a
chance to buy  Cigna Corp .’s pharmacy plans.  Catamaran, based in Lisle, Illinois, dropped 2.1 percent to
$52.08 at 1:26 p.m. New York time, after earlier declining 6.3
percent, its biggest intraday fall since Nov. 14.  Sarah James , a
Wedbush analyst in Los Angeles, said yesterday in a note to
clients that recent job postings suggest Cigna may want to
expand its drug-benefits unit rather than sell it.  Pharmacy benefit managers serve governments, unions and
private employers. Catamaran has a contract handling some drug
plans for Cigna, the third-largest U.S. health insurer. Winning
the rest of the carrier’s business would give Catamaran more
negotiating power with drug manufacturers, James said.  “There was speculation the PBM would sell and most likely
to Catamaran,” said  Brooks O’Neil , a Minneapolis-based analyst
at Dougherty & Co. who follows Catamaran, in an e-mail. “We
never thought Cigna would sell its PBM and there’s opportunity
for Catamaran at Cigna. Clearly, investors think differently.”  Cigna has posted openings online for at least four
“senior-level” employees to “develop a multi-year PBM growth
strategy,” James wrote in her note. While the postings don’t
guarantee Bloomfield, Connecticut-based Cigna will keep the
unit, “we see more indications the company will keep the PBM
in-house than sell it,” she said.  The insurer is evaluating its options for the unit and
expects to make a decision in the first half of this year, Chief
Executive Officer  David Cordani  said yesterday on a conference
call. Cigna rose 1 percent to $61.95.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  