-- McDonald’s January Store Sales Drop in Asia U.S Gains
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n
-- 2013-02-08T21:13:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/mcdonald-s-january-store-sales-drop-1-9-on-weakness-in-asia.html
McDonald’s Corp. , the world’s largest
restaurant chain, posted a surprise gain in U.S. same-store
sales last month while demand slumped in the Asia Pacific
region.  Sales in the U.S. increased 0.9 percent in January, the
Oak Brook, Illinois-based company said today in a statement.
Analysts projected a drop of 0.3 percent, the average of 14
estimates compiled by Consensus Metrix. Sales in Asia Pacific,
the Middle East and Africa plunged 9.5 percent while analysts
anticipated a decline of 5.8 percent.  The Big Mac seller has been promoting value items and
breakfast foods to lure customers in Asia as Japan works to
emerge from its third recession in five years and consumer
confidence stagnates in  China . In the U.S., McDonald’s is
promoting its Dollar Menu and testing new items, such as chicken
wings, to boost sales.  McDonald’s rose 0.3 percent to $94.87 at the close in New
York. The  shares  dropped 12 percent last year, the worst annual
performance in a decade. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
advanced 13 percent in 2012.  McDonald’s January same-store sales in Japan, the
company’s largest Asian market with about 3,200 locations,
dropped 17 percent.  Japan Slump  In Japan, “they’re just in a really tough position -- it’s
a very competitive market,” said  Sara Senatore , a New York-
based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co., who rates the
shares market perform, meaning the stock will perform in line
with the S&P 500 Index in the next six to 12 months.  Global sales fell 1.9 percent, the first monthly sales
decline for January since 2003. Analysts anticipated a drop of
1.1 percent. Sales dropped 2.1 percent in Europe while analysts
had forecast a gain of 0.1 percent, according to Consensus
Metrix, a researcher owned by Wayne, New Jersey-based Kaul
Advisory Group.  In Japan, the world’s third-largest economy, retail sales
rose less than forecast in December, indicating that consumer
demand remains weak. Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  is trying to
defeat deflation and lead the Asian nation out of recession.  McDonald’s has been closing stores in Japan as comparable-
store sales have fallen for 10 straight months. It has reduced
the number of locations to 3,200 from more than 3,800 at the end
of 2006. McDonald’s has been getting away from couponing and
discounting, which affected January sales.  Shrinking Paychecks  In China, McDonald’s January sales were hurt by “consumer
sensitivity” around the chicken industry, according to the
statement. Yum! Brands Inc., which owns KFC, said its China
same-store sales tumbled in the fourth quarter after a former
poultry supplier was investigated for selling chicken with high
levels of antibiotics.  In the U.S., fast-food eateries are vying for budget-
conscious customers who are seeing smaller paychecks. Yum’s Taco
Bell is selling new items including loaded grillers and a
Cantina Bell steak burrito, while  Burger King Worldwide Inc . has
recently introduced a molten fudge sundae and new chicken
nuggets.  “People’s paychecks have shrunk because of the payroll
tax,”  Bryan Elliott , an analyst at St. Petersburg, Florida-
based Raymond James Financial Inc., said in an interview
yesterday. Elliott  rates  McDonald’s shares market perform.  “I expect that to have a measurable impact on restaurant
demand this year,” he said.  Comparable, or same-store, sales are considered an
indicator of a company’s growth because they include only older
restaurants. McDonald’s December comparable-store sales were
unchanged globally.  There are more than 34,000 McDonald’s locations worldwide
and about 80 percent are franchised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  