-- Celgene Wins Approval of Drug to Treat Deadly Blood Cancer
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   L a r k i n
-- 2013-02-08T21:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/celgene-wins-approval-of-drug-to-treat-deadly-blood-cancer-1-.html
Celgene Corp. ’s therapy for a deadly
blood cancer that will sicken more than 22,000 people in the
U.S. this year won U.S. regulatory approval.  Pomalyst, or pomalidomide, was approved for multiple-
myeloma patients who have tried and failed on at least two other
drugs, including Celgene’s Revlimid and Takeda Pharmaceutical
Co.’s Velcade, according to a  statement  today from the Food and
Drug Administration. Pomalyst may generate sales of $1.1 billion
in 2017 for Summit, New Jersey-based Celgene, according to the
average of 12 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc. , based in South San Francisco,
California, makes a similar drug, Kyprolis, approved in July.
Celgene’s FDA application for pomalidomide, like Kyprolis, was
submitted under an accelerated approval program that allows a
promising drug to treat a serious disease on the market before
final clinical trials are complete.  “Treatment for multiple myeloma is tailored to meet
individual patient’s needs, and today’s approval provides an
additional treatment option for patients who have not responded
to other drugs,”  Richard Pazdur , director of the FDA’s Office
of Hematology and Oncology Products, said in the statement.  Pomalyst will carry a boxed warning that the product can
cause blood clots and that pregnant women shouldn’t use the drug
because it can lead to life-threatening birth defects. Women of
childbearing age who take the treatment must comply with
pregnancy testing and both males and females have to adhere to
contraception requirements, the FDA said.  Revlimid Sales  Pomalyst will only be available through prescribers and
pharmacies that are trained to dispense the medicine. Revlimid
has similar requirements.  Revlimid, a multiple myeloma drug patients can take after
trying one previous therapy, is Celgene’s top seller with $3.8
billion in sales last year, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Multiple myeloma is a cancer of the plasma cells, which are
white blood cells that make antibodies that help protect the
body from germs, according to the National Institutes of Health.  As many as 15,000 patients each year in the U.S. fail
Revlimid and Osaka, Japan-based Takeda’s Velcade,  Gene Mack , an
analyst with Brean Capital in New York, said in a phone
interview. At least 60 percent of those patients are eligible
for Kyprolis and Pomalyst, he said.  Patients who use Onyx’s Kyprolis may move to Celgene’s
Pomalyst and vice versa, or they may get both drugs in
combination,  Michael Yee , an analyst with RBC Capital Markets in
San Francisco, said by phone.  Celgene found patients taking pomalidomide orally plus a
low dose of the steroid dexamethasone lived a median 3.6 months
without their disease worsening, compared to 1.8 months for
patients taking a high dose of the steroid alone, according to a
final-phase study the company presented at the American Society
of Hematology meeting in Atlanta in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  