-- Charter to Buy Optimum West for $1.63 Billion
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-02-08T21:07:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/charter-to-buy-optimum-west-for-1-63-billion.html
Charter Communications Inc.  agreed to
buy Cablevision Systems Corp.’s Optimum West for $1.63 billion
in cash, gaining a regional cable provider in the western U.S.  The price represents a multiple of 8.9 times Optimum West’s
third-quarter 2012 annualized earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, Charter said yesterday in a
statement.  Charter won out over peers such as  Time Warner Cable Inc. 
and Suddenlink Communications, which made offers for the
business, according to people close to the situation. Charter
Chief Executive Officer  Tom Rutledge  is also familiar with
Optimum West, which provides cable services to states such as
Colorado and Utah. He pushed Cablevision to buy the business in
2010 when he was Cablevision’s chief operating officer.  “Charter is an educated buyer, because the CEO purchased
the property for Cablevision, but in the near term, this is more
positive for Cablevision,” said  Frank Louthan , an analyst at
Raymond James & Co. in Atlanta. “This is a transaction where
there aren’t a lot of synergies because Charter is acquiring
what became a well-run property.”  Louthan has the equivalent of a buy recommendation on
Cablevision’s stock, with a neutral rating on Charter.  Cablevision fell 1.3 percent to $14.97 at the close in New
York. The shares rose 5.6 percent yesterday after Bloomberg News
first reported the deal, the largest one-day gain since July 19.
Charter rose 0.3 percent to $80.89 today.  New York Focus  In Optimum West, Charter gains more than 360,000 customers
in Montana, Wyoming, Colorado and Utah.  Cablevision  bought the
unit, previously known as Bresnan Broadband Holdings LLC, more
than two years ago from Providence Equity Partners Inc. for
$1.37 billion.  “Optimum West is an ideal fit for Charter,” Rutledge said
in the statement. “We anticipate an efficient integration
process.”  The transaction further expands Charter’s U.S. reach. The
St. Louis-based operator already provides service to about 5.2
million customers in 25 states.  Selling the business allows Cablevision to concentrate on
the New York area, where most of its customers reside.
Cablevision serves about 3 million subscribers in New York, New
Jersey, Connecticut and parts of Pennsylvania. The Bethpage, New
York-based company began exploring a sale of the Bresnan
business after several acquisitions of cable systems were
announced last year at favorable prices, compared to the value
of publicly traded cable companies’ shares.  Dolan Proud  “We are proud of the value we created in the Optimum West
properties,” Cablevision CEO  James Dolan  said in the statement.
“We made strategic investments in the cable system and
significantly enhanced the network.”  The transaction is expected to close in the third quarter
of 2013, the companies said. Charter will fund the acquisition
with $1.5 billion in debt. Credit Suisse Group AG and Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. provided financing and advised Charter on the
deal.  Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. acted as co-lead
advisers to Cablevision. Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch
unit and Guggenheim Securities LLC also provided financial
advice. Sullivan & Cromwell LLP acted as legal counsel to
Cablevision.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  