-- Chavismo Set to Outlive Chavez as Venezuela Braces for Elections
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2013-02-08T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/chavismo-set-to-outlive-chavez-as-venezuela-braces-for-elections.html
President  Hugo Chavez’s  absence from
Venezuela in a Cuban hospital, now about to reach two months, is
prompting his countrymen and investors to contemplate what a
post-Chavez era would look like. It may not be much different.  Using the slogan “I am Chavez,” Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  has consolidated control of the government, giving the
annual state of the union speech, announcing the appointment of
a new foreign minister, calling on the military to remain loyal
and filling in for the president with daily television
appearances. At the same time, the opposition has seen its
influence wane after losing both the presidential election and
most of its governorships in regional voting in December.  For now, Maduro has the backing of the 58-year-old Chavez,
who hasn’t been seen or heard from publicly since arriving in
Havana Dec. 10 for cancer surgery. Over the coming year,
pressure to devalue the currency, tackle 20 percent  inflation 
and boost oil output may open the door to a post-Chavez
leadership challenge from inside his movement, said  Diego Moya- Ocampos , a political analyst at IHS Global Insight in London.  “There is Chavismo without Chavez and they’re proving it
right now,” said Moya-Ocampos, a former top aide in the
Attorney General’s office under Chavez in 2000. “If Maduro’s
popularity starts to be undermined by economic difficulties,
then you might see another Chavista leader emerging saying they
can do better than him and that’s where problems can arise.”  Election Victories  Chavez won re-election three times in 14 years by tapping
the world’s largest  oil reserves  to fund social programs that
helped cut poverty nearly in half. Under the auspices of his
“21st century socialism,” the government nationalized more
than 1,000 companies or their assets, froze prices on consumer
goods ranging from shampoo to diapers and built alliances with
countries including Iran, Belarus and Russia.  Chavez’s deteriorating health has triggered a 38 percent
return on Venezuelan bonds in the past year on speculation that
a new regime will have to introduce more market-friendly
policies. That’s the best performance in emerging markets after
the Ivory Coast, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co’s EMBIG index.  The former paratrooper, who suffered hemorrhaging and
breathing trouble from a lung infection following Dec. 11
surgery, was healthy enough to dictate an economic plan to boost
exports, Maduro said Jan. 26 before flying to a summit in Chile.  Legal Ruling  Maduro, 50, remained as vice president after the Supreme
Court ruled Chavez could stay in power even after missing his
Jan. 10 inauguration. Before leaving for Cuba, Chavez called on
Venezuelans to back Maduro in elections should he have to step
down.  While opponents such as  Leopoldo Lopez , a Voluntad Popular
party leader, say the Supreme Court ruling has created a power
vacuum, Chavismo, the movement named after the self-declared
socialist, is striving to show his ideology continues.  To slow the fastest official inflation in the Western
Hemisphere, the pro-Chavez National Assembly is discussing a
bill that will set the price for new and used cars. The state-
run consumer watchdog known as Indepabis has also intensified
raids of distributors accused of stockpiling goods as it seeks
to ease shortages of staple products such as sugar, milk and
chicken.  Chavez’s coalition in the National Assembly is just one
vote short of the three-fifths majority needed to grant the
Venezuelan president powers to pass laws without congressional
approval after an opposition deputy switched sides Feb. 5.  Maduro, a former bus driver and union leader who served as
foreign minister for six years, is already in campaign mode and
is the favorite to win any election, said  Luis Vicente Leon ,
president of Caracas-based polling firm Datanalisis.  Pepper Farms  Since Chavez left, Maduro makes as many as three daily
appearances on  state television . In recent weeks he has promoted
pepper farms in western Venezuela, discussed housing projects
with a family at their dinner table and vowed that he’ll
continue Chavez’s economic policies.  The opposition “proposed that we begin to privatize public
companies,” Maduro said during a visit to a computer assembly
factory Jan. 22. “That’s something that’s not going to
happen.”  Maduro’s prospects are aided by the fact that Venezuela’s
opposition is at its weakest in seven years after suffering
back-to-back electoral defeats, said  Javier Corrales , an
associate professor at Amherst College who wrote a book about
Chavez’s government.  Fracturing Support  Even after opposition candidate  Henrique Capriles Radonski 
narrowed Chavez’s margin of victory to 11 percentage points last
October from 26 percentage points in 2006, the president’s
allies won 20 of 23 governorships in regional elections in
December.  Still, Chavismo’s unity may fracture once the founder of
the movement is no longer around, said  Gregory Weeks , a
professor of Latin American politics at the University of North
Carolina in Charlotte.  “There’s no indication that Maduro is going to have the
same unifying power that Chavez did,” Weeks said in a Jan. 3
phone interview.  Maduro has repeatedly denied speculation of a rivalry with
National Assembly President  Diosdado Cabello , a former
lieutenant who fought alongside Chavez in a failed 1992 coup.  Price Surge  Whoever leads Venezuela will face an economic reckoning.
Government spending from oil revenue of $70 billion in the first
nine months of 2012 allowed the economy to grow 5.5 percent
ahead of the national election. A spending spree that increased
25.5 percent in real terms in the year preceding the Oct. 7 vote
may force the government to devalue the currency in order to
close a fiscal deficit estimated by Morgan Stanley at 12 percent
of gross domestic product.  Inflation in December rose at the fastest pace in almost
three years as the government crimped imports, exacerbating
shortages of staple goods such as flour, toilet paper and
coffee.  Venezuela’s Information Ministry didn’t respond to an e-
mail seeking comment about whether the government would be able
to maintain unity in the face of difficult economic decisions.  To maintain spending, Venezuela will need to raise
investment in the oil industry, which provides 95 percent of the
government’s export revenue. Oil output in the country declined
13 percent to 2.7 million barrels per day in 2011 from 1999 when
Chavez came to power, according to the BP Statistical Review of
World Energy. State-run  Petroleos de Venezuela SA , known as
PDVSA, hasn’t published operational data beyond 2011.  Off-Budget Funds  Last week the government cut PDVSA’s contributions to an
off-budget fund for public spending by $2.9 billion. Central
government outlays have declined 7 percent in real terms since
Chavez’s election, according to Bank of America Corp.  The mounting economic problems mean Maduro may lose his
status as favorite if he doesn’t call elections soon, said
 Francisco Rodriguez , a Venezuelan economist at Bank of America
in New York. The government is unlikely to devalue before any
vote and delaying the adjustment until next year will mean the
government will have to find other ways of raising about $65
billion.  “The longer they put off calling elections, regardless of
whether they devalue, the costlier it’s going to be for them
politically and the lower the chances of Maduro winning will be,
which right now are very high,” Rodriguez said.  With Chavez’s health and future uncertain, the government
may be biding its time while Maduro builds his profile, said
Moya-Ocampos.  Power Base  “People seem to be coming to terms with the fact that
every day it seems more likely that President Chavez might be
unfit to carry out his constitutional duties and that Chavismo
will continue with Maduro as its leader,” he said. “The
strategy now seems to be for people to get used to seeing Maduro
at the center of the political scene, to gain time for him to
develop his own power base.”  While Maduro has said Chavez will eventually return to
Venezuela, the government has turned to sponsoring religious
masses to pray for his recovery. The move is part of an effort
to create a myth around Chavez in a similar fashion to how
former Argentine first lady  Evita Peron , who died of cancer in
1952 at the age of 33, was sanctified in her country, said Ana
Teresa Torres, author of “The Inheritance of the Tribe,” a
history of Venezuelan military strongmen.  Tapping into public emotion over its sick president, Maduro
calls himself Chavez’s son and, choking on tears in a Dec. 10
speech, compared the Venezuelan leader to 19th century
liberation heroes  Simon Bolivar  and Ezequiel Zamora.  “It’s possible that Chavismo will disappear one day but
not in the short-term,” Datanalisis’ Leon said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  