-- Chilean Inflation Expectations Climb After January CPI Surprise
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2013-02-08T15:44:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/chilean-breakeven-inflation-rates-climb-on-january-cpi-surprise.html
Chilean traders’ inflation estimates
jumped after a government report showed consumer prices rose
more than expected last month.  The one-year break-even inflation rate, a measure of swaps
traders’ expectations for price increases, rose 23 basis points
to 3.07 percent at 11:51 a.m. in Santiago. The peso slid 0.1
percent to 472.69 per dollar and headed for a 0.2 percent
decline in the week. The currency is the second-best performer
in Latin America this year, with a 1.4 percent gain.  Consumer prices in the world’s top producer of copper rose
0.2 percent in January, pushing up the  annual inflation  rate to
1.6 percent from 1.5 percent at the end of last year. While that
annual rate is still below the central bank’s 2 percent to 4
percent target range, it’s above traders’ estimates for a 1.5
percent reading. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24
commodities has rallied 5.3 percent this year, reaching a five-
month high today.  “We’re importing more inflation because of the positive
start to the year for commodities, and it’s not being offset by
an appreciation of the peso,” said  Sebastian Ide , head of rates
trading at Banco de Chile in Santiago. “This greater inflation
won’t be reflected in the monetary policy rate and that means
the curve should steepen.”  Chile ended 2012 with the slowest inflation among major
Latin American countries and the fastest economic growth behind
Peru, according to analysts polled by Bloomberg. A reduction in
tax on loans had less impact on prices in January than expected,
economists at IM Trust SA wrote today in a note to clients.  The peso has held in a range between 471 and 474 per dollar
since the end of January as concern that the central bank or
government would act to slow its appreciation stops it pushing
through 470 per dollar. Without the threat of intervention the
peso would have advanced to around 460 per dollar, Ide said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  