-- Chile to Exhume Nobel Prize Winner Neruda in Pinochet-Era Probe
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2013-02-08T20:35:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/chile-to-exhume-nobel-prize-winner-neruda-in-pinochet-era-probe.html
A Chilean judge ordered investigators
to exhume the remains of Nobel Prize-winning poet  Pablo Neruda 
to determine whether the author of “Twenty Love Poems and a
Song of Despair” was murdered after the 1973 military coup,  “Hopefully the examination will help clarify any doubts
remaining about the poet’s death,” the Pablo Neruda
Foundation’s press office said in an e-mailed statement today.  Neruda died in September 1973, 12 days after military
forces led by  Augusto Pinochet  overthrew the administration of
the poet’s friend President  Salvador Allende . Even though the
official cause of death is complications from prostate cancer,
Neruda’s driver at the time, Manuel Araya, believes he may have
been poisoned because of his allegiance to the toppled
government.  The probe comes as Chilean courts investigate a series of
high-profile cases of alleged human rights abuses during
Pinochet’s dictatorship including the murder of two U.S.
journalists in a story made famous by the movie “Missing.”  “There is no other way to resolve the tremendous doubt
that has arisen,” Eduardo Contreras, a lawyer for the Communist
party that requested the probe, said in a statement on the party
website. “There is a real possibility that outsiders were
involved in the death of the great poet.”  Communist Lawmaker  Authorities haven’t yet set a date for the exhumation, the
Foundation’s press office said. The judiciary’s press office was
unable to confirm the decision when contacted by Bloomberg
because the judge in charge of the investigation is on vacation.
Chilean newspaper El Mostrador reported the news earlier today.  Neruda, whose real name was Neftali Ricardo Reyes Basoalto,
was born in 1904 in the southern town of Parral and is buried at
his seaside home on central Chile’s coast alongside his wife
Matilde Urrutia. A Communist elected to the Senate in 1945,
Neruda said his poetry reflected his political consciousness.  “My duties as a poet involve friendship not only with the
rose and with symmetry, with exalted love and endless longing,
but also with unrelenting human occupations,” he said in his
1971 Nobel Prize  acceptance speech . “I was the most forlorn of
poets and my poetry was provincial, oppressed and rainy. But
always I had put my trust in man.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net . 