-- China Forecasts More Snow, Hampering Lunar New Year Travel Plans
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-08T04:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/china-forecasts-more-snow-hampering-lunar-new-year-travel-plans.html
Snow and rains will continue to
affect eastern and southern China today, extending a cold spell
as more travelers head home for the Lunar New Year holidays.  Heavy snow will hit parts of Zhejiang, Jiangxi, Anhui and
Hunan provinces, while areas in Guizhou and Hunan will also
encounter icy rains, the China Meteorological Administration
 said  on its website. Shanghai will see small amounts of snowfall
today, the city’s weather service center  said , after the
government said precipitation yesterday caused a “spike” in
traffic accidents.  Icy weather this week has already hindered New Year travel,
which is the world’s biggest annual human migration. Snow and
rain led to 4,680 traffic accidents in Shanghai as of 9.30 p.m.
yesterday, the city’s government said on its website. At least
10 people were killed in collisions on an expressway in central
Hunan province today, the official Xinhua News Agency reported.  Shanghai, the nation’s financial center, imposed a speed
limit on its highways yesterday and temporarily closed some
roads because of the snowfall, the city’s highways department
said on its  website . Traffic conditions were normal as of 10
a.m. today, the department said.  The Shanghai long-distance bus transportation station  said 
it was suspending trips on highways to neighboring provinces
today and would offer refunds to passengers that had already
bought bus tickets.  A record 3.41 billion passenger trips may be made this year
during the Lunar New Year period, Xinhua reported on Feb. 5,
citing the National Development and Reform Commission.  Holiday travelers should bring enough warm clothing on
their trips to prevent catching the flu and other diseases, the
national weather agency said today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shiyin Chen at 
 schen37@bloomberg.net  