-- China Names ICBC Singapore Clearing Bank to Boost Yuan Role
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-02-08T10:21:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/china-names-singapore-clearing-bank-to-boost-yuan-s-global-role.html
The  Industrial & Commercial Bank of
China Ltd.  won the right to clear yuan transactions in Singapore
as the world’s second-biggest economy seeks to boost use of its
currency in global trade and finance.  The People’s Bank of China approved the Singapore branch of
ICBC, as the world’s largest lender by market value is known, as
the clearing bank in the city state, according to a statement on
the monetary authority’s website. Singapore will become the
third offshore yuan center after Hong Kong and Taiwan.  The announcement came two days after Taiwan’s lenders
started accepting deposits and conducting interbank trading in
the Chinese currency. Singapore authorities gave full banking
privileges to the two lenders in October, after allowing the
listing of yuan-denominated stocks in July.  The appointment “marks a key milestone in the growing
financial cooperation between the central banks of China and
Singapore,” Ravi Menon, managing director of the Monetary
Authority of Singapore, said in a statement today. “It will
enable Singapore’s financial center to play a useful role in
facilitating greater use of the renminbi for trade, investment
and other economic activities in the region.”  This is the first time ICBC has won yuan clearing rights
overseas. Bank of China Ltd. was selected for the role in Taipei
and Hong Kong. The yuan is a denomination of the renminbi.  Offshore Hubs  China has pledged to support offshore yuan hubs as it
encourages greater international use of its currency. Hong Kong
has been accepting yuan savings from individuals since 2004 and
offshore trading of the currency began in the city in 2010.
London is the destination for companies including China
Construction Bank Corp. and HSBC Holdings Plc to list their
yuan-denominated bonds.  “While there seem to be increasingly more offshore yuan
centers, I would expect the market to get bigger as well,”
 Frances Cheung , a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong
Kong, said by telephone today. “Singaporean investors have been
quite active in past dim sum bond subscriptions. Demand for yuan
products in Singapore is big.”  Yuan deposits held in Hong Kong rose 5.6 percent in
December to  603 billion yuan  ($97 billion), an 18-fold jump from
five years ago, according to official data. Taiwan’s banks held
1.3 billion yuan of deposits on Feb. 6, when clearing of the
currency started, the central bank said yesterday.  Trading Partner  Singapore is the largest currency trading center in Asia
after Tokyo, according to the last triennial survey by the Bank
for International Settlements done in September 2010. Its
average daily foreign-exchange turnover is $300 billion,
according to a July 30 report from the Singapore Foreign
Exchange Market Committee.  China was Singapore’s third-largest trading partner after
Malaysia and Europe in 2012. Trade between the two countries
rose to S$104 billion last year from S$95 billion in 2010, and
accounted for more than 10 percent of Singapore’s total,
according to the city-state’s trade promotion agency.  The U.K. is also seeking to move into yuan trade, with the
Bank of England saying last month that it is ready “in
principle” for a currency-swap agreement with the Chinese
central bank. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  is
pushing for London to become an offshore center for yuan trading
to deepen links with China.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  