-- China Brokers Seen Joining $2 Trillion Structured-Product Market
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-02-08T03:32:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/china-brokers-seen-joining-2-trillion-structured-product-market.html
China is preparing to let local
brokerages sell structured products for the first time, allowing
them to benefit from surging demand for complex investments tied
to equities, currencies and other assets, according to lawyers
involved in the market.  The Securities Association of China  said  in December it won
regulatory approval for a trial over-the-counter trading program
for products designed by local securities companies. The pilot
program will allow China’s securities companies to create
structured instruments using embedded options to enhance returns
by giving them access to derivatives trading, from which they’d
been previously excluded, according to lawyers at Linklaters
LLP, a London-based law firm.  Commercial banks currently dominate the market for
structured investments with their offerings of so-called wealth
management products, said  Chin-Chong Liew , Linklaters’ Hong
Kong-based head of derivatives and structured products for Asia
excluding Japan. Fitch Ratings estimates that more than $2
trillion has been invested in such products.  “In the securities world, I think it’s starting,” said
Liew, who has advised Chinese companies on development of
derivatives and structured products since 1995. The regulators
“want to promote innovations, promote financial derivatives,
promote structured products among securities companies.”  Under the trial approved by the  China Securities Regulatory
Commission , seven firms can issue and trade products that match
their clients’ risk tolerance levels, according to a statement
posted on the association’s website, which didn’t elaborate
further on the types of investments that can be offered. The
investments will range from “easy to hard,” it said.  ‘Easy to Hard’  Haitong Securities Co. , one of the participating
brokerages, has introduced six funds with maturities of 14 days
to a year for both individual and institutional investors to
invest in low-risk assets including stock index futures. The
prospectuses for the products, which were created for the trial,
say that while they’re designed to generate returns of 4 percent
to 7 percent, investors may also take losses.  Products traded in the market will gradually evolve into
more complicated ones that are likely to use derivatives, Yin
Xiusheng, vice president at  Guotai Junan Securities Co. , was
quoted as saying Jan. 23 by the Shanghai Securities News. The
company is also among the participants in the program.  “So far, securities companies have been quite constrained
by their limited scope of business,”  Jian Fang , a Shanghai-
based partner at Linklaters, said by phone. “This could be
their first step to get into the derivatives market.”  The OTC trading, starting with bilateral agreements, may
eventually be expanded to include structured notes, or debt
securities packaged with options to sweeten terms, Liew said.  “You can potentially in this platform issue structured
notes,” he said.  Wealth Management Products  Brokerages’ entry into the structured-product market may
further fuel the industry’s growth. In a December report, Fitch
estimated that the amount of outstanding wealth management
products issued by Chinese banks may have surged to 13 trillion
yuan ($2 trillion) by the end of 2012 from 8.5 trillion yuan a
year earlier.  Wealth management products, overseen by the country’s
 banking regulator , are linked to investments including equities,
currencies and credit to generate higher yields similarly to
structured notes, Liew said. More disclosures may be needed for
the products as many are linked to assets described as
“others,” he said.  “You don’t even know what they’re linked to,” Liew said.
“People are chasing yields. In the last four years, the rest of
the world came down, but China went up.”  Beijing-based  Huaxia Bank Co.  last year defaulted on a
wealth management product. The bank said in December that it
will negotiate possible repayment with investors who lost money
in the incident, which involved structured deposits that a
former employee is suspected of promoting without authorization.  The trial that also involves companies including Shenyin &
Wanguo Securities Co., China Securities Co. and Industrial
Securities Co., will at the same time bring China’s securities
regulator into the market, thereby increasing investor
protection, Liew said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  