-- China Starts Publishing Trade Data in Yuan Amid Currency Push
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-08T04:40:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/china-starts-publishing-trade-data-in-yuan-amid-currency-push.html
China started publishing monthly
export and import statistics in yuan as the nation steps up
promotion of the currency for international use.  The  General Administration of Customs  gave yuan-denominated
figures alongside U.S. dollar numbers in the monthly trade
report today, saying in a statement that it is following a
“common international practice” of putting official data in
the local currency. More than 80 percent of Chinese trade is
still declared in dollars and the agency will continue to
calculate  growth  rates according to dollar-based numbers,
customs said.  China wants to encourage greater use of its currency in
global trade and finance, including a pledge to support yuan
hubs outside the nation. Offshore interbank trading of yuan
started this week in Taiwan, which is poised to sell its first
bonds denominated in the currency, following Hong Kong and
London.  “The customs move is a symbolic gesture of trying to boost
the yuan’s profile,” said  Zhang Zhiwei , chief China economist
at Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong and a former researcher for
the International Monetary Fund. “Its fundamental meaning is
limited as most Chinese trade is settled in dollars.”  China’s cross-border cargo trade settlement in the local
currency amounted to 2.06 trillion yuan ($330 billion) in 2012,
the  People’s Bank of China  said in its fourth-quarter monetary-
policy report released Feb. 6. That represents about 9 percent
of China’s total trade of $3.87 trillion last year.  Exports in January were 1.18 trillion yuan, or $187.4
billion, and imports were 994.9 billion yuan, or $158.2 billion,
customs said today.  -- Zhou Xin . Editors:  Scott Lanman ,  Nerys Avery   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  