-- China Denies Using Weapons-Targeting Radar on Japanese Ship
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-08T02:31:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/china-denies-using-weapons-targeting-radar-on-japanese-ship-1-.html
China’s Ministry of Defense said its
ships didn’t use weapons-targeting radar on Japanese naval
forces last month, calling statements made by Japanese officials
on the issue “irresponsible” and contributing to heightened
tensions between Asia’s two biggest economies.  Chinese ships used radar to closely monitor a Japanese
military helicopter on Jan. 19 and to track the Japanese
destroyer Yudachi on Jan. 30, and in both cases fire-control
radar wasn’t used, the ministry said in a  statement  posted on
its website.  “The Japanese side saying that Chinese naval fire control
radar was aimed at Japanese naval units does not correspond with
the facts,” according to the ministry statement. “Top
officials in the Japanese government are making irresponsible
remarks, talking up the ‘China threat,’ creating a tense
atmosphere and willfully misleading international public
opinion.”  Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  on Feb. 6 denounced what
he said was China’s use of fire-control radar last month twice
at Japanese targets in the East China Sea near islands claimed
by both countries. The incidents have undermined efforts to ease
tensions between the two counties and elicited calls from the
U.S. for a diplomatic solution.  The islands, called Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan,
are in an area rich in oil, natural gas and fish. Japan’s
purchase of three of the islands in September prompted violent
protests in China that damaged Japanese businesses.  Fire-control radar is used to provide targeting information
to missiles and some naval guns. Its use can in some
circumstances be a sign of hostile intent, according to a manual
of rules of engagement written under the direction of the U.S.
Naval War College.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7580 or
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  