-- Chocolatier Petra Seen Targeted in Deal Spree: Real M&A
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2013-02-08T09:47:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/chocolatier-petra-seen-targeted-in-deal-spree-real-m-a.html
An unprecedented wave of deals for
Southeast Asian food and drink companies has traders betting the
next targets will include chocolatier  Petra Foods Ltd.  and
instant-coffee and cracker maker Viz Branz Ltd.  Buyers from Coca-Cola Femsa SAB to Heineken NV announced a
record $10.4 billion of food and beverage purchases in the
region in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
acquisitions are likely to continue as rising incomes in
Southeast Asia, where more than a quarter of the population is
under 15, create brand-conscious grocery shoppers willing to
spend more money, said consultant Frost & Sullivan.  Most of the region’s 650 million people will be middle
class by 2020, and spending on food and beverages may climb at
least 75 percent by then from 2000 levels, according to
Accenture Plc. Petra, a $2 billion Singapore-based company that
dominates  Indonesia’s  chocolate market, may appeal to overseas
rivals, said DBS Group Holdings Ltd. Viz Branz, a $200 million
maker of instant coffee and  cuttlefish-flavored  rice crackers,
is likely to be bought by its second-largest shareholder,
according to Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp.  “There’s clearly a lot of interest in consumer M&A” in
Southeast Asia,  Vincent Fernando , an analyst at Religare Capital
Markets in Singapore, said in a telephone interview. “Any
established company can acquire branded products and pump it
through its distribution network. That’s what makes such an
acquisition appealing.”  Rising Wealth  Petra rose 0.5 percent to S$4, a  record , in Singapore
trading today. Viz Branz gained 0.7 percent to S$0.69, while the
benchmark Straits Times Index added 0.3 percent.  Consumer spending on food and beverages in Southeast Asia
will jump to about $350 billion in 2020 from less than $200
billion in 2000, according to a 2011  analysis  by consulting firm
Accenture. Food and drink spending surpasses every other
category, including housing and transport.  The number of households in the region with annual
disposable income of between $5,000 and $10,000 -- designated as
the lower-earning end of middle class -- will more than double
to more than 50 million, with households in Singapore, Malaysia
and Thailand wielding the most spending power, the data show.  “There will be a lot of activity in the region,”  Satish Lele , a food and beverage industry analyst at Frost & Sullivan
in Singapore, said in a phone interview. “The biggest driver is
the ability of the consumer to spend more as wages keep on
increasing.”  ‘Invigorated Interest’  Already, acquisitions in the region have surged. Last
year’s $10.4 billion in industry deals was up from $2 billion in
2011 and exceeded the previous three years combined, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The pace was largely driven by
Heineken’s $6.4 billion takeover of Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd.,
which brews the namesake Dutch beer, Singapore’s Tiger and
Indonesia’s Bintang.  Also among the buyers in 2012 was Coca-Cola Femsa, the
largest publicly traded Coke bottler, which in December agreed
to purchase 51 percent of Coca-Cola Bottlers Philippines Inc.
for $689 million. It gained access to a nation that consumed  40
percent  more Coke products than the worldwide average in 2011.  The deal total for last year doesn’t include the $11
billion takeover of Fraser & Neave Ltd., the Singapore real-
estate developer that also produces soft drinks and ice cream,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Still, it was the takeover battle for F&N that
“invigorated interest in the sector,” said  Lim Siyi , a
Singapore-based analyst at OCBC. Thai billionaire Charoen
Sirivadhanabhakdi last month won control of 130-year-old F&N
after his bid won the backing of a majority of shareholders.  Kirin Interested  Companies from Japanese brewer Kirin Holdings Co. to
 Universal Robina Corp. , a Manila-based consumer food group, have
said they’re interested in acquisitions in the region. Universal
Robina will consider acquisitions of brands as part of its
expansion strategy, President  Lance Gokongwei  wrote in an e-
mailed response to questions this week.  “We won’t rule out the possibility of acquisitions;
however, there is no specific deal going on at the moment,”  Kan Yamamoto , a Kirin spokesman, said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Among potential targets is Viz Branz, OCBC’s Lim said. The
company, whose products include  CappaRomA coffee , posted all-
time high revenue of S$173 million ($137 million), as well as
record profit, in the year ended  June 2012 , according to its
annual report. It holds the No. 3 position in Singapore’s coffee
market with more than 9 percent of sales in 2012, according to
data from Euromonitor International.  Indonesian Chocolate  With plants in Singapore, China, Myanmar and Vietnam, Viz
Branz said in October that Singapore-based Lam Soon Group, which
makes cooking oil and the Isomax sports drink, bought a  20
percent stake . Lam Soon will probably bid for the rest of the
company, according to Lim.  “We’re still optimistic that a deal is likely,” Lim said.
“Viz Branz has a strong presence in Southeast Asia,
particularly Myanmar and Vietnam, as well as China.”  Another target is Petra, which traces its roots to
Indonesian chocolate brands SilverQueen and Ceres brands that
were established in the 1950s, said Andy Sim, a Singapore-based
analyst at DBS. Petra sold its cocoa-ingredients division to
Barry Callebaut AG, the world’s largest maker of bulk chocolate,
in December for $950 million. Since then, Petra shares have
risen 20 percent.  Richard Chung , Petra’s head of corporate planning, declined
to comment on the possibility of the company as a takeover
target, citing the upcoming earnings release on Feb. 27.
Officials at Viz Branz didn’t respond to phone or e-mail
requests for comment.  ‘Cadbury Equivalent’  Without that unit, Petra is left with a consumer business
that makes it chocolate brands, which accounted for about one
quarter of its  $1.7 billion  in revenue in 2011, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Still, the company holds the No. 1 position in
Indonesia’s confectionery market, with more than 21 percent of
sales last year, data from Euromonitor show.  “They are the Cadbury equivalent in Indonesia,” said Han
Meng Tan, a Singapore-based analyst at DMG & Partners Securities
Pte, referring to the British candy maker that was acquired by
Kraft Foods Inc. for 13.6 billion pounds ($21 billion) in 2010.
“They have conditioned the taste buds of about three
generations of Indonesians.”  For buyers in Southeast Asia, the challenge will be to
persuade companies to sell in the face of such business
opportunities, said Religare’s Fernando.  Relative Value  “There are far more consumer companies looking for M&A
rather than being willing to be a take-out,” he said. “Owners
are mostly thinking about expanding the business and looking for
targets rather than selling out.”  Shares of both Viz Branz and  Petra  have doubled in the past
12 months, ending at  S$0.685  and S$3.98, respectively,
yesterday. Still, Viz Branz has an enterprise value of 7.4 times
its estimated 2013 earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, the cheapest among beverage companies in
Southeast Asia with market capitalizations higher than $100
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  On the other hand, Petra’s multiple to estimated Ebitda
this year of 20 times is more expensive than 93 percent of food
manufacturing companies in the region, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The ratio is more than double the industry
median, the data show.  Valuations of food and beverage companies in the region
“reflect the faster growth from attractive demographics,
growing middle class and increasing urbanization,” Universal
Robina’s president Gokongwei wrote.  Still, the valuations may not deter buyers as they’re
outweighed by the region’s potential and reflect the scarcity of
targets, said OCBC’s Lim.  “Southeast Asia is going to be exciting over the next 10
years,” said DMG’s Han. “This is that part of the world where
companies will have their presence.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  