-- Citigroup Urges Appeals Court to Approve SEC Settlement
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-02-08T21:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/citigroup-argues-for-approval-of-285-million-sec-settlement.html
Citigroup Inc.  asked a U.S. appeals
court to overrule a trial judge and let its $285 million
mortgage-securities settlement with the Securities and Exchange
Commission go forward.  The bank is challenging U.S. District Judge  Jed S. Rakoff ’s
2011 refusal to approve the agreement, which would resolve
claims that New York-based Citigroup misled investors in a
$1 billion financial product linked to risky mortgages. The SEC
claimed Citigroup cost investors more than $600 million.  Rakoff criticized the SEC practice of agreeing to
settlements that don’t require defendants to admit wrongdoing.
He said the parties didn’t give him “any proven or admitted
facts” he could use to determine whether the settlement was
fair.  Federal regulatory enforcement would “screech to a
grinding halt,” if companies were forced to admit liability or
go to trial when they’re sued by the government, Brad Karp, a
lawyer for Citigroup, argued today to a three-judge panel of the
U.S. Court of Appeals in New York.  Karp said that if companies are forced to admit wrongdoing
as part of a settlement, lawyers for shareholders will use the
information to sue in securities-fraud cases. The companies
would be better off not settling, he said.  “The risks of going to trial and losing are no worse” for
a company faced with an enforcement action than settling with an
admission of liability that can be used in private suits, Karp
said.  SEC Lawyer  SEC lawyer  Michael Conley  argued that courts should give
deference to the agency’s judgment that a particular settlement
is in the public interest.  There was “absolutely no suggestion that this was not a
settlement negotiated at arm’s length between capable counsel,”
he said.  Circuit Judge  Raymond Lohier  asked Conley if,
hypothetically, the SEC were to settle a case involving
$600 million in shareholder losses for just $100,000, a judge
would be justified in giving less deference to the commission.  “The monetary component is frankly not something for the
court’s proper consideration,” Conley said.  Judge  Rosemary Pooler , who participated in the argument by
video connection from Syracuse, New York, asked Conley why the
SEC seeks injunctions barring parties from violating securities
laws in the future, which it almost never seeks to enforce.  Preventative Orders  Conley said the injunctions provide “a good prophylactic
remedy.”  John Wing, a lawyer appointed by the appeals court to
defend Rakoff’s ruling, agreed that Rakoff can’t require
Citigroup to admit liability as the price for approving the
settlement.  Wing said the parties didn’t give Rakoff sufficient facts
for him to determine whether the settlement was fair, adequate,
reasonable and in the public interest, as required by law. He
said Rakoff could require the parties to submit evidence from
depositions, documents or affidavits.  Lohier and Pooler asked whether the appeals court should
send the case back to Rakoff to consider evidence presented in
July in the trial of an SEC case against former Citigroup
executive Brian Stoker.  Stoker, who was originally sued with Citigroup, was found
not liable by a Manhattan jury of violating securities laws when
he structured the assets underlying a $1 billion investment
called a “CDO squared.” The term refers to a collateralized
debt obligation made up of collateralized debt obligations.  Lawsuit Claim  The SEC claimed New York-based Citigroup structured and
sold the CDO in 2007 without telling investors that it helped
pick about half the underlying assets and was betting they would
decline in value by taking a short position.  In 2009 Rakoff rejected a $33 million deal between the SEC
and Bank of America Corp. He said the settlement suggested “a
rather cynical relationship between the parties.”  “The SEC gets to claim that it is exposing wrongdoing on
the part of the Bank of America in a high-profile merger,”
Rakoff wrote at the time. “The bank’s management gets to claim
that they have been coerced into an onerous settlement by
overzealous regulators. And all this is done at the expense not
only of the shareholders, but also of the truth.”  Rakoff later approved a $150 million settlement in which
the parties provided an agreed “statement of facts.”  Karp today argued to the appeals panel that Bank of America
faced additional suits as a result of the facts admitted in its
SEC settlement.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Citigroup Global Markets Inc., 11-05227, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit (New York).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Van Voris  in New York
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 