-- Cofinimmo Forecasts Dividend Cut on Office Rents, Refurbishments
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2013-02-08T09:12:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/cofinimmo-forecasts-dividend-cut-on-office-rents-refurbishments.html
Cofinimmo SA , Belgium’s biggest real-
estate investment fund, said it will cut its  dividend  next year
because of lower rents in the Brussels office market and the
reconversion of an office building vacated by Belfius Bank NV.  Earnings  before changes in property values, interest-rate
derivatives and disposal gains will decline to 7 euros a share
from 7.61 euros last year, Brussels-based Cofinimmo said today
in a statement. It plans to cut its common-stock distribution
over 2013 earnings by 7.7 percent to 6 euros per share.  “This is a clear disappointment because we believed
management was determined to keep paying out 6.50 euros a share,
 Jaap Kuin , an analyst at ING Bank NV in Amsterdam, wrote in an
investor note. “We see a reset dividend of 6 euros as still
slightly above  cash flow  per share and management will need to
execute accretive deals in the healthcare and sale-and-leaseback
segment to bridge the gap.”  Cofinimmo has steered away from the Brussels office market
in recent years, which still represents more than 46 percent of
its property investments valued at 3.31 billion euros ($4.44
billion). While  acquisitions  and developments of pre-let nursing
homes on long-term leases will account for more than half of
planned investments through 2015, Cofinimmo will also spend 93
million euros on office refurbishments. That includes the
reconversion of two blocks, one of which was vacated by Belfius
Bank last year, into apartments. The indemnity paid by Belfius
for the remaining 21 months of the lease boosted profit by 70
cents a share last year.  The shares declined as much as 1.5 percent on Euronext
Brussels, the largest  intraday  drop in more than two months, and
traded at 88.80 euros, down 1.12 euros, at 10 a.m. local time.  Occupancy of Cofinimmo’s Brussels offices declined to 91.65
percent at the end of last year from 93.07 percent a year
earlier. That compares with a vacancy rate of about 11 percent
for the Brussels office market, according to CB Richard Ellis,
Cofinimmo said. Cofinimmo’s offices lost 2.2 percent of their
value last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 John Martens  in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  