-- Colgate, Avon Decline as Venezuela Devalues Its Currency
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2013-02-09T01:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/colgate-avon-decline-after-venezuela-devalues-its-currency-1-.html
Colgate-Palmolive Co. ,  Avon Products
Inc.  and other U.S. makers of household products with operations
in Venezuela fell after the country devalued its currency for
the fifth time in nine years.  Colgate, the world’s largest toothpaste maker, dropped 1.5
percent to $108.49 at the close in New York and  Avon , the
largest door-to-door cosmetics seller, slipped 2.5 percent to
$16.85.  Clorox Co. ,  Kimberly-Clark Corp.  and  Energizer Holdings
Inc. , the maker of batteries, also declined.  Though Venezuela has only 0.4 percent of the world’s
population, it has a disproportionate share of sales for many
consumer products companies, according to  Connie Maneaty , an
analyst at BMO Capital Markets. Businesses operating in the
country are also hobbled by price controls, particularly those
making basic necessities such as diapers and bleach.  Those companies won’t be able to mitigate the impact of the
devaluation by raising prices as they have done in the past,  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York,
said today in a telephone interview.  “It not only impacts their current business in Venezuela,
but their growth prospects out of Venezuela going forward,”
said Dibadj, who rates Colgate and Avon market perform.  Colgate, Avon and Oakland, California-based Clorox depend
on Venezuela for 5.2 percent, 4.1 percent and 2.1 percent of
sales, respectively, Dibadj said in a November report.  Slash Prices  While the affected companies may not have much ability to
respond to devaluation, investors should keep in mind that
“they’ve been benefiting from Venezuela for many years as
prices were going up,” Dibadj said.  Other U.S. companies with operations in Venezuela include
Cincinnati-based  Procter & Gamble Co. , the world’s largest
consumer products maker, and  Newell Rubbermaid Inc. , the maker
of Sharpie pens and Calphalon cookware.  P&G, Colgate and  Johnson & Johnson  had to slash prices on
products such as toothpaste, toilet paper and bleach after
President  Hugo Chavez  set price caps on 19 consumer care
products in April to slow inflation. Chavez, who says that the
price caps are necessary to combat what he’s called “capitalist
speculation,” threatened to nationalize any companies that
doesn’t comply.  The Venezuelan government will weaken the exchange rate by
32 percent to 6.3 bolivars per dollar, Finance Minister  Jorge Giordani  told reporters today in Caracas. A spending spree that
almost tripled the budget deficit last year helped Chavez, 58,
win a third six-year term. The devaluation can help narrow the
deficit by increasing the amount of bolivars the government
receives from oil exports.  ‘Further Devaluation’  “We knew it was possible that further devaluation in
Venezuela could occur,” Bob Brand, a spokesman for Dallas-based
Kimberly-Clark, the maker of Huggies diapers and Kleenex
tissues, said in an e-mail today. The company’s target for 2013
is to increase adjusted earnings per share by 5 percent to 8
percent, assuming about a 1 percentage point drag from
Venezuela, Brand reiterated today.  Avon declined to comment on Venezuela,  Jennifer Vargas , a
spokeswoman said.  In a November conference call, the company said it is
“managing the business assuming that there is a potential
devaluation” and “taking steps to try to mitigate the
impact.”  ‘Significant Devaluation’  Colgate, which gets 29 percent of its revenue from Latin
America, said on a Jan. 31 conference call that earnings per
share will grow at a double-digit rate, on a dollar basis, in
2013 excluding the impact of a devaluation in Venezuela. It
referred to previous comments it made that a “significant
devaluation” along with price controls would “weigh heavily”
on its results.  Bleach maker Clorox on its earnings call on Feb. 4 said for
its fiscal second half that it was factoring in “a possible
currency devaluation in Venezuela.”  P&G said in August that a potential currency risk may be a
“large” devaluation in Venezuela after its presidential
elections.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  