-- Colombia Seeks Faster Inflation and Growth, Uribe Says
-- B y   O s c a r   M e d i n a   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2013-02-08T22:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/colombia-to-use-monetary-policy-to-lift-economy-to-full-capacity.html
Colombia will use monetary policy to
boost economic growth back to its full potential as it seeks
lift inflation to the midpoint of its target range, the central
bank said today.  With the economy now operating below full capacity,
Colombian consumer prices will probably increase less than the
central bank’s 3 percent target this year, central bank Governor
 Jose Dario Uribe  said today. The annual inflation of 2 percent
seen in January is too low, Uribe said.  “We don’t want inflation to remain at 2 percent forever,”
Uribe told reporters in Bogota, after presenting the central
bank’s quarterly inflation report. “We want inflation of 3
percent, and of course we take into account that it can’t stay
at 3 percent permanently.”  The central bank cut its  policy rate  a quarter point for a
fifth time since June last month, to 4 percent, the lowest among
major Latin American economies, after industrial output slumped
and inflation slowed to its lowest level since 2010. Another
interest rate cut at the central bank’s Feb. 22 policy meeting
is now a “done deal”, according to  Camilo Perez , head analyst
at Banco de Bogota SA, the nation’s second-biggest bank.  “There’s a very high chance, it’s a done deal, that the
central bank is going to cut another quarter point at their next
meeting,” Perez said after the release of the minutes of the
last meeting today. “They make it explicit that they see a need
for a bigger monetary policy expansion, but that they didn’t
vote for this because there’s still some uncertainty over the
future evolution of the economy.”  Credit Growth  Asked if there is any reason why the central bank might not
continue to cut borrowing costs, Uribe said that policy makers
take account of asset prices and credit growth when they set
policy, and will react if they see people taking on too much
debt.  At least two of the seven board members called for deeper
rate cuts last month after economic growth and inflation slowed,
the minutes to the bank’s January policy meeting showed.  “Monetary policy actions are directed so that in 2013,
output is close to the economy’s productive capacity, without
putting at risk the inflation target or the macroeconomic
stability of the country,” policy makers said in the  minutes .  Peso Strength  The policy makers who voted for a half-point cut last month
cited the damage the strong peso is doing to the nation’s
industry, and the likelihood of a devaluation in the currency of
Venezuela, the biggest market for Colombia’s industrial exports.
Venezuela devalued its currency five hours later, to 6.3
bolivars from 4.3 bolivars per dollar.  A majority of the board judged that “although a more
expansionary monetary policy is needed, the uncertainty over the
future evolution of internal demand and the chance of
exacerbating imbalances previously accumulated by the economy,
above all in an environment of ample global liquidity, suggests
the appropriateness of prudence in policy measures,” according
to the minutes.  Industrial output  slumped 4.1 percent in November from the
year-earlier period, the biggest decline since July 2009.  At its January meeting, the central bank also said it would
boost dollar purchases to at least $30 million a day and will
buy at least $3 billion between February and May. Finance
Minister  Mauricio Cardenas  has said repeatedly that he wants to
weaken the peso to 1,950 per U.S. dollar. The peso gained 0.2
percent to 1,788.75 per dollar today.  Uribe said the peso has so far weakened less than he
expected. The currency has depreciated 0.8 percent this month,
the biggest fall among seven major Latin American currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  Foreign direct investment could fall in 2013 from the
record $16.7 billion last year, he said.  Annual  inflation  eased to 2 percent last month, from 2.44
percent in December, the slowest pace since April 2010. The
result was lower than all 25 forecasts in a Bloomberg survey,
whose median estimate was for inflation of 2.22 percent, and
takes inflation to the lower bound of its 2 percent to 4 percent
target range.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  