-- Colombian Peso Heads for Biggest Weekly Drop Since October
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2013-02-08T15:04:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/colombian-peso-heads-for-biggest-weekly-drop-since-october.html
Colombia’s peso headed for its
biggest weekly drop since October as central bankers increased
dollar purchases in the foreign-exchange market and as
speculation mounted that they will cut interest rates.  The peso was little changed at 1,791.19 per U.S. dollar at
9:50 a.m. in Bogota. It has slid 0.8 percent in the past five
days, the biggest weekly drop since the period ended Oct. 26.  Banco de la Republica said Jan. 28 that it will boost
dollar purchases to stem a rally that sent the peso to a 17-
month high on Jan. 2, curbing exporters’ profit margins. A Feb.
5 report showing inflation slowed more than economists expected
is fueling speculation that the central bank will lower
borrowing costs in the Feb. 22 meeting, reducing the appeal of
local fixed-income assets and helping curb foreign investment in
the market.  “The inflation report couldn’t have come at a better time
for the government,”  Eduardo Bolanos , an analyst at Asesores en
Valores brokerage in Bogota, said in a phone interview in
Bogota. “It provides room for more rate cuts and also for more
dollar purchases without the fear of stoking inflation.”  President  Juan Manuel Santos  said to coffee growers Feb. 6
that his government will use “all the weapons in its arsenal”
to prevent the currency’s appreciation from hurting the
country’s farmers and manufacturers who complain the strong peso
is making it difficult for them to compete.  The yield on government securities due in 2024 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 5.05 percent, the
lowest since the securities were first issued in 2009, according
to the central bank.  The central bank said Jan. 28 that it will buy at least $30
million a day, bringing purchases in the foreign-exchange market
to $3 billion between February and May.  Annual inflation slowed to 2 percent in January, the lowest
rate since April 2010, from 2.44 percent at the end of last
year. Banco de la Republica, which has cut the benchmark lending
rate by 1.25 percentage points since July to 4 percent, has an
inflation of 3 percent plus or minus 1 percentage point.  Policy makers will lower the overnight lending rate 25
basis points in each of its meetings in February and March,
Bolanos forecasts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  