-- Colombia Coal Miners ‘Far Apart’ in Talks With Cerrejon
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y   a n d   O s c a r   M e d i n a
-- 2013-02-08T18:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/colombia-s-cerrejon-workers-far-apart-in-talks-union-says.html
BHP Billiton Ltd.’s Colombian coal
mine and striking workers are “very far” apart in wage
negotiations, said the head of the country’s coalminers’ union.
Coal rose to a four-week high.  Workers, who walked off the job at the Cerrejon mine
yesterday to push for an 8.5 percent pay rise and improved
health-care benefits, are open to government-brokered talks,
said Igor Diaz , president of the National Coal Industry Workers
Union, known as  Sintracarbon . BHP owns the mine in partnership
with Xstrata Plc and Anglo American Plc.  The strike came a day after Colombia, South America’s
largest supplier of coal, suspended producer Drummond Co.’s
loading license following a spill. Cerrejon and Drummond
together accounted for 80 percent of Colombia’s annual coal
exports of about 75 million metric tons in 2011, according to
the  World Coal Association .  Cerrejon, the world’s largest open-pit coal mine for
export, produced 34.6 million tons last year, while Drummond’s
Colombian unit produced 25 million tons, according to the
companies’ websites. Cerrejon offered its 5,600 workers a 5
percent increase, according to the union.  “Cerrejon is still very far from the workers’
perspectives,” Diaz said in a telephone interview from
Riohacha, near the mine.  Government Mediation  President  Juan Manuel Santos  said he ordered the Labor
Ministry to mediate in labor talks at the mine. The union will
accept government participation ’’as long as they don’t side
with the company,’’ Diaz said.  “The country loses a great deal because every day that
passes, it ceases to receive royalties,” Santos said today on
his radio program Online with the President. “The ministry must
do everything it can so this strike doesn’t continue.”  Cerrejon avoided a strike in 2011 after agreeing to a two-
year wage accord that included a 6.5 percent wage increase.  Juan Carlos Restrepo, a spokesman for Cerrejon, didn’t
immediately return telephone calls seeking comment.  The benchmark price for hard-coking coal in the first
quarter is $165 a ton, down 2.9 percent from the fourth quarter
and the lowest since 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Thermal coal for 2014 delivery to Amsterdam,
Rotterdam or Antwerp rose 1.2 percent to $100.80 a ton today.
Coal rose earlier to $101.10, the highest since Jan. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;
Oscar Medina in Bogota at 
 omedinacruz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  