-- Constellation Seeks OK to Back AB InBev in Antitrust Suit
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2013-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/constellation-asks-ab-inbev-judge-to-join-u-s-antitrust-suit.html
Constellation Brands Inc. , seeking to
support  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV ’s bid to buy Grupo Modelo SAB,
asked a judge to intervene in the U.S. lawsuit filed to block
the deal.  Constellation, which jointly owns a U.S. beer distributor
with Modelo, said in a filing yesterday in federal court in
Washington that it should be allowed to support the deal in the
proceedings. If the $20.1 billion acquisition is approved,
Victor, New York-based Constellation would end up with Modelo’s
stake in the distributor, Crown Imports LLC, along with a 10-
year distribution agreement for brands including Corona.  “The acquisition of Modelo’s 50 percent interest in Crown
is a transformational transaction for Constellation’s beer
business,”  Margaret Warner , a lawyer for Constellation, wrote
in the filing. “The transaction will double Constellation’s
participation in the beer business.”  Constellation, which said it had been part of negotiations
with the Justice Department before the government’s antitrust
case was filed, wasn’t named as a defendant in the lawsuit.
Constellation and Crown, half of which is owned by
Constellation, would get to argue for their own stake in the
deal and “have a seat at any potential settlement table” if
the judge allows them to intervene, the company said in court
papers.  AB InBev Request  AB InBev, based in Leuven, Belgium, asked U.S. District
Judge  Richard Roberts  in its own filing yesterday to let
Constellation and Crown join the case. The Justice Department
opposes the move, the companies said.  In a separate filing, the Justice Department and AB InBev
asked Roberts to set a hearing for Feb. 15 to schedule how the
case should proceed.  Gina Talamona , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment on yesterday’s filings.  “It seems likely a judge is going to grant this,” said
Allen Grunes, an antitrust lawyer with Brownstein Hyatt Farber
Schreck LLP in Washington who isn’t involved in the case. “The
Justice Department has put the adequacy of the supply agreement
and transfer of ownership of the distributor to Constellation at
issue in their complaint.”  Constellation agreed to pay $1.85 billion for Modelo’s
stake in Crown Imports, the two companies’ joint venture for
U.S. distribution. That deal, which would give Constellation the
exclusive right to import Modelo beer into the U.S. for 10
years, is contingent upon AB InBev buying Modelo.  Pricing Agreement  Before the lawsuit was filed on Jan. 31, negotiations with
the Justice Department filing centered on how to structure a
long-term supply and pricing agreement for importing Modelo’s
brands to the U.S., three people familiar with the matter said
Jan. 15. The talks subsequently broadened to include production
assets, one of the people said.  The lawsuit alleges the Constellation deal was aimed at
winning regulatory approval by “creating a facade of
competition” between AB InBev and its importer.  Constellation “would acquire no Modelo brands or brewing
facilities under this arrangement -- it remains simply an
importer, required to depend on ABI for its supply of Modelo-
branded beer,” the department said in the complaint.  The department’s action “fundamentally threatens
Constellation’s future in the beer business,” according to the
company’s filing.  Crown Imports, which had $2.39 billion in sales for the
year ending Feb. 29, 2012, according to the company, is AB
InBev’s primary competitor in the U.S., not Modelo,
Constellation said in a statement. Also, the company’s full
ownership of Crown will improve competition and give Crown
“greater flexibility in responding to competitive factors in
each of its markets,” Constellation said.  The case is U.S. v. Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV, 13-
cv-00127, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  