-- Corps Clears Water Release, Snubs Mississippi Shippers
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2013-02-08T22:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/corps-clears-water-release-snubs-mississippi-shippers.html
The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers
approved diverting surplus water from a Missouri River reservoir
in December, a day before telling the Senate’s No. 2 Democrat
the water was unavailable to keep the drought-stricken
Mississippi River open to shipping.  The Corps on Dec. 5 agreed to let a unit of a company that
provides water for hydraulic fracturing withdraw from Lake
Sakakawea in North Dakota, the Army said in a  statement 
yesterday. The next day it told Senator  Richard Durbin , an
Illinois Democrat, that the Missouri River was off limits to aid
navigation on the downstream waterway.  “Water, water everywhere, but not a drop for navigation,”
 Mike Toohey , president of the Waterways Council Inc., an
Arlington, Virginia-based group that represents shippers and
ports including barge operators on the Mississippi River, said
today in an e-mailed statement.  The water conflict, caused by the worst drought 70 years,
has pitted officials in states along the two rivers against each
other as low water threatened to shut the Mississippi, the
busiest U.S. inland waterway, to commercial barge traffic.  Shippers including  Archer-Daniels-Midland Co . of Decatur,
Illinois, use the river to float an estimated $2.8 billion worth
of cargo, including grain, coal and fertilizer, during a typical
January, according to the American Waterways Operators, which
also is based in Arlington, Virginia.  Operator Uncertainty  Barge traffic jams have created uncertainty for operators
as far south as Louisiana. Companies including AEP River
Operations LLC, a unit of American Electric Power Co. of
Columbus, Ohio, and  American Commercial Lines Inc.  of
Jeffersonville, Indiana, have idled boats because of the
slowdown.  As the crisis unfolded late last year, lawmakers led by
Durbin asked the Corps to analyze whether increased flows from
the Missouri River, which joins the Mississippi at St. Louis,
could be used to aid the ailing waterway.  There would be “significant negative effects” on the
Missouri River system by increasing the flow, including
depleting drinking water supplies, loss of marine-wildlife
habitat and higher bills for hydropower users,  Jo-Ellen Darcy ,
the Army’s assistant secretary for civil works, said in a Dec. 6
letter to Durbin.  A spokeswoman for Durbin said she needed more information
on the Corps’ decision before commenting.  The day before, however, the Corps’ Omaha district was
notified that Darcy approved the discharge for International
Western Inc. under a provision of law that permits “the
withdrawal of surplus water from Corps reservoirs on a short-
term basis,” according to a statement from the agency.  Select Energy  International Western is part of Houston-based Select
Energy Services LLC, which provides water for hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, the process that injects a watery mix
into underground rock to extract oil and natural gas from shale
rock. Dustin Childers, a Select Energy spokesman, said in a
phone interview he didn’t immediately know how water from the
lake will be used.  Under a five-year “surplus water agreement” signed Feb.
6, International Western will remove 1.6 billion gallons from a
site on the lake in western North Dakota for industrial
purposes, according to Monique Farmer, a spokeswoman for the
Corps in Omaha, Nebraska. The water, originally intended for
irrigation, wasn’t needed for crops and can be diverted for
another authorized use, she said.  The Corps said it is limited by law to certain permitted
uses of the Missouri’s water.  “We aren’t congressionally authorized to operate the
Missouri River solely for the benefit of the Mississippi
River,” Farmer said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  