-- Corporate Credit Swaps in U.S. Hold; McGraw-Hill Risk Widens
-- B y   M a d h u r a   K a r n i k
-- 2013-02-08T21:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/corporate-credit-swaps-in-u-s-decline-as-trade-deficit-narrows.html
A credit-default swaps benchmark in
the U.S. held as the trade deficit narrowed more than forecast
in December.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, which
investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, declined 0.4 basis point to a mid-price of
89.5 basis points at 4:14 p.m. in New York, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The deficit shrank 20.7 percent to $38.5 billion, lower
than any estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 73 economists and the
least since January 2010, Commerce Department figures showed
today in Washington.  “Credit-derivative investors are really bearish, and the
trade deficit data has hurt this bearish sentiment,”  Brian Reynolds , the New York-based chief market strategist for
brokerage firm Rosenblatt Securities Inc., said in a telephone
interview.  The gauge typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. The contracts pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  The cost to protect McGraw-Hill Cos. debt from losses
increased after Fitch Ratings reduced the company’s default
rating, citing the lawsuit filed by the Department of Justice
against the company and its Standard & Poor’s rating unit.  McGraw-Hill  Five-year credit swaps on the company’s debt increased 27
basis points to 222.5 basis points as of 3:01 p.m. in New York,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  The risk premium on the  Markit CDX North American High
Yield Index  dropped 0.3 basis points to 449 basis points,
Bloomberg prices show.  Defaults of speculative-grade bonds in the U.S. fell to 3
percent in January, compared with 3.3 percent the previous
month, according to a report yesterday from Moody’s Investors
Service. The ratings company forecasts the rate will be 2.7
percent in the U.S. by the end of the year.  “The pace of corporate defaults continued to match our
expectations,”  Albert Metz , managing director of Credit Policy
Research at Moody’s, wrote in the report. “Ample liquidity will
continue to ease default pressures over the near term.”  The average relative yield on speculative-grade or junk-
rated debt rose 3.2 basis points to 499 basis points, according
to Bloomberg data.  High-yield, high-risk debt is rated below Baa3 by Moody’s
and lower than BBB- at S&P. A basis point is 0.01 percentage
point.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Madhura Karnik in New York at 
 mkarnik@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  