-- Darling Emerges to Defend British Unity in Battle Over Scotland
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n   a n d   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2013-02-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/darling-emerges-to-defend-british-unity-in-battle-over-scotland.html
It was at a 2011 charity dinner in
Glasgow when  Alistair Darling  realized it was time to return to
the political front line and fight to keep Scotland in the U.K.  The former chancellor of the exchequer, who was in charge
of bailing out British banks engulfed by the 2008 financial
crisis and is now an opposition House of Commons lawmaker, was
sitting next to a local businessman who was reticent about
declaring his support publicly for staying in Britain.  “I said ‘why don’t you speak out?’ and he said ‘when you
lot are prepared to give me cover I might,’” Darling recalled
at his office in Edinburgh. “And that’s when I thought, look,
those of us on the side of the argument that says we’re better
and stronger in the U.K. need to stand up and speak.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s Tories have been unpopular
in Scotland for decades, so the Labour Party’s Darling is now
leading the campaign to defend the 306-year-old union with
England before a referendum on independence next year. While
polls show almost twice as many voters want to stay in Britain
than leave, enough are undecided to set up months of tussling.  The government in Edinburgh led by Scottish First Minister
 Alex Salmond  said last week it plans to declare independence in
March 2016, setting out a  timetable  after the election watchdog
decided on Jan. 30 on the wording of the referendum question --
“Should Scotland be an independent country? Yes/No.”  “Darling is saying how rubbish it will be, and Salmond is
saying how wonderful everything will be,” said John Grant, who
runs the Ferry Boat Inn in the small Highlands town of Ullapool.
“Passionately in my lifetime I would like Scotland to be an
independent country but I don’t have all the facts.”  North Sea Oil  The arguments for and against Scotland going it alone so
far have centered on the North Sea oil industry, debt, budget
spending, the currency and defense. Voters may only start
getting detailed answers after the referendum, should Salmond’s
Scottish National Party win a mandate to start negotiations on a
settlement with the U.K. government.  There’s also the issue of Scotland’s European Union status,
with Cameron adding his own question mark with plans for a
plebiscite on continuing U.K. membership of the 27-nation bloc
should he win re-election in 2015.  Cameron’s government will begin setting out its detailed
case on Scotland’s position in the U.K. on Feb. 11, Scottish
Secretary  Michael Moore  said yesterday.  Long Debate  “Salmond from my experience is a very sharp debater,”
said Christopher Howarth, an analyst in London at Open Europe,
which publishes research on the EU. “Darling is a very good man
to front the campaign. He is a good example of how as a Scottish
politician you can have more influence in the U.K.”  Darling, a Scot who represents an Edinburgh district in the
U.K. Parliament, says his  “Better Together”  drive is based on
economics, culture and being part of a larger, more influential
country with greater financial clout. He said he’d “never”
been tempted by independence.  “I’ve been proud of being Scottish all my life but I’m
proud of being British, so I’ve never seen why I have to
choose,” Darling, 59, said on Feb. 1. “We’re capable of so
much and are far larger than the sum of our parts.”  As chancellor from 2007 until Labour lost the 2010 election
to Cameron’s Conservatives, Darling rescued Edinburgh-based
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  in the largest bank bailout in
history. An independent Scotland wouldn’t have been able to
afford it and needs to share risks with England, he said.  Salmond’s Response  Salmond, 58, who first entered the Westminster parliament
in London in 1987 along with Darling, refutes that.  An independent Scotland would get about 90 percent of the
tax income from British oil production and cut company tax to
lure employers, he says. It would also be free to spend more on
social security and maintain free university education while
keeping the pound and the backing of the Bank of England.  Scotland would remain in the EU, according to Salmond, who
was the subject of an inquiry into whether he misled lawmakers
on whether he’d sought legal advice on the issue.  He dismisses the view of European Commission President  Jose Manuel Barroso , who reiterated  this month  that any new country
would need to apply with the consent of all member states before
any negotiations could start.  Scotland’s 5.2 million population is similar to that of
Finland, the 19th most populous member at the moment.  “We’re starting now on the serious, detailed debate about
independence,”  Nicola Sturgeon , the deputy to Salmond who is
running the “Yes” campaign, said in an interview in Glasgow.
“It’s about a new relationship between the different parts of
these islands.”  Beating Labour  Salmond’s party won an unprecedented majority in Scottish
parliamentary elections in May 2011, trouncing Labour, which had
led the polls just months before. That handed Salmond a second
term as leader of the Edinburgh government, which currently has
control over health, transport, education, justice and housing.  Yet Scots haven’t embraced the nationalists’ flagship
policy. Chief executive officers at engineering company Weir
Group Plc and mobile-power supplier  Aggreko Plc , both based in
Glasgow, have said the uncertainty over Scotland’s future might
scare off investment.  A  poll by TNS BMRB  last month found 28 percent of voters
supported independence, the same as three months before. Those
wanting to stay in the U.K. accounted for 48 percent, down from
53 percent, while the proportion of people who hadn’t made up
their mind rose five percentage points to 24 percent.  “The fact that we did persuade people over two elections
to embrace the SNP and how we approach government gives us great
heart that we’ll be able to do the same on the argument for
independence,” said Sturgeon, 42.  Raising Questions  At a speech at Strathclyde University in Glasgow on Dec. 3,
Sturgeon spoke to about 100 members of what the SNP calls
“civic Scotland.” People want to know about tax, whether the
party’s stance against nuclear weapons would be written into an
independent Scotland’s constitution and whether the country
would continue its commitment to international aid, she said.  “People think the union is rather more benign than they
did,”  John Curtice , a professor of politics at Strathclyde who
attended the event, said in a telephone interview. “You can
persuade people that the union can be made to work if we have
someone standing up for our interests.”  Darling’s job is to convince Scots of that. The son of a
civil engineer, he was educated at the private Loretto School in
Musselburgh, a few miles along the coast from Edinburgh, before
studying law at Aberdeen University. He worked as a lawyer in
the Scottish capital before becoming a member of Parliament.  Scottish Stronghold  Scotland has been a stronghold of his Labour Party for
decades, at least at Westminster, with 41 of the country’s 59
seats. Cameron’s Tories have only one seat, while the SNP has
six lawmakers in London.  Grant, the innkeeper in Ullapool, where Darling visited
last year, is the kind of voter both sides need to win over. The
56-year-old said he voted Labour in U.K. elections and SNP in
Scottish parliamentary elections.  “If it’s a big mistake, it’s not going to affect me, it’s
going to affect my children,” he said by phone on Feb. 4. “The
longer we’re left in the dark, the better it is for Darling.”  There are about 1.75 million votes up for grabs and a lot
can change before the referendum, Darling said.  The 140 billion-pound ($220 billion) Scottish economy grew
0.6 percent in the third quarter, the latest comparable data
available, less than the 0.9 percent for the  U.K. as a whole ,
the government said on Feb. 1. In the final three months of last
year, the British economy declined 0.3 percent.  Then there’s the campaign. As it put forward the referendum
question last month, the Electoral Commission set the spending
limit for the two main groups for and against independence at
1.5 million pounds each in the 16 weeks before the vote.  “We’re not voting for a government for the next five
years, we’re voting for a way of life for the next two or three
hundred years,” Darling said. “They only have to win once.
They win by one vote and that’s it, there’s no going back.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rodney Jefferson  in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net ;
 Peter Woodifield  in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  