-- Democrats Cite Long Lines in Bid to Shift Debate on Voting
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-02-08T16:18:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/democrats-cite-long-lines-in-bid-to-shift-voting-rights-debate.html
President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Democrats, citing long lines and hours-long waits
at polling places last November, want to change the narrative on
voting rights.  Democrats are urging mandatory early-voting periods and
same-day registration, trying to shift the focus to making it
easier to cast ballots from Republican efforts to curb alleged
fraud, which studies show is virtually absent. Representative
 John Lewis  of Georgia, a civil rights icon, is chief sponsor of
 legislation  backed by more than 80 percent of House Democrats.  “This is an attempt to change the debate away from so-
called voter fraud, where little exists, to empowering people to
actually get to the polls and vote,” said  Jim Manley , a former
aide to Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  now at the lobbying
firm Quinn Gillespie & Associates.  The effort has yet to draw any support from Republicans,
who control the House and can block Senate legislation. They
question the necessity for the federal government to tell states
how to run elections. And while Obama cited voting rights in his
inaugural address and may promote the issue in next week’s State
of the Union speech, his budget, gun-control and immigration
priorities will compete for time and attention.  The voting-rights measure could appeal to independents,
said  Lisa Graves , executive director of the Center for Media and
Democracy, a Madison, Wisconsin-based advocacy group. Except for
“a narrow partisan minority, most people favor making it easier
for Americans to vote,” she said.  Seeking Partners  Democrats have “reached out publicly and privately” to
Republicans on the issue, said Representative  Chris Van Hollen ,
a Maryland Democrat and a bill co-sponsor. “We’re still hopeful
some Republicans will support this effort,” he said.  So far, no one has, with some Republicans voicing concern
about Washington encroaching on a state responsibility.  “If some precincts have long lines, it’s a fairly simple
matter for state and local election officials to add machines,
split precincts, or make other changes to solve the problem
without the federal government interjecting itself,” said
 Charles Grassley  of Iowa, the ranking Republican on the Senate
Judiciary Committee.  House Administration Committee Chairwoman  Candice Miller , a
Michigan Republican and a former secretary of state who oversaw
elections, also said states alone should decide how to proceed.  “There are no one-size-fits-all solutions,” she said.
“Therefore, forced changes to state election procedures,
especially the sweeping changes proposed in this legislation,
are of particular concern.”  Undermines Debate  Critics of a federal measure say it could make it harder to
ensure that only those eligible cast ballots, said Horace
Cooper, an adjunct fellow at the National Center for Public
Policy Research, a Washington-based research group that wants
limits on government regulations.  “It undermines the debate we’ve been having,” said
Cooper, a proponent of laws compelling voters to show
identification. “These changes risk increasing voter fraud
rather than see to it that Americans have access.”  Still-vivid pictures of voters waiting for hours buttress
calls for early balloting and other changes, said  Lawrence Norden , deputy director of the democracy program at New York
University’s Brennan Center for Justice.  Fainting in Line  “It’s one of the things that is motivating people,”
Norden said. “We don’t think people should have to faint while
waiting in line for nine hours. Voting shouldn’t be that
difficult or complicated.”  Democratic constituencies were the ones most affected last
November, a survey shows.  Black voters, who cast 93 percent of their ballots for
Obama in 2012 according to a  CNN exit poll , and Hispanics, who
gave 71 percent of their votes to the incumbent Democrat, waited
an average of 20.2 minutes, according to a study by Charles
Stewart III, a political science professor at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology in Cambridge.  The wait for whites, who backed Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  by 59 percent to 39 percent, averaged 12.7 minutes.  Even so, plenty of Republicans also stood in those lines,
Stewart said. “Legislators would be too clever by half to think
this is a Democratic problem,” he said.  Voter-ID Laws  It’s the reversal of the fight over voter-ID laws enacted
by Republican-controlled legislatures. The Brennan Center
reported that 25 percent of voting-age blacks, 16 percent of
voting-age Hispanics and 15 percent of voting-age Americans in
households earning less than $35,000 lacked the identification
required by the laws. The center also found voter fraud
occurring 0.00004 percent of the time in Ohio in 2004.  The issue of protecting voters’ rights is also before the
U.S. Supreme Court as justices weigh a challenge to the 1965
Voting Rights Act that requires federal approval of rules
changes in all or part of 16 states with a history of
discrimination. The Justice Department used that provision to
successfully push back against voter-ID laws in some states on
the grounds that they were biased against minority voters.  New voter-ID laws have been introduced in 22 states, though
some would relax requirements enacted earlier, according to the
 National Conference of State Legislatures . Thirteen states have
introduced measures to allow voters to register on Election Day,
according to the NCSL.  Waiting Periods  Some states are also looking at reducing waiting periods at
polling places. Florida Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican, has
called for longer early-voting periods, reversing legislation he
signed into law in 2011. Voters in that battleground state
waited an average of 45 minutes, more than anywhere else,
Stewart’s study found. Six other states are also considering
extending their periods for early voting, while legislation in
eight others would provide early voting for the first time,
according to the NCSL.  Common Cause President  Bob Edgar , a former Democratic
representative from Pennsylvania, said Republican voter-ID laws
spurred increased turnout from groups angered by the
legislation. Republican efforts to make it easier for them to
vote could translate into more support for the party, he said.  “The Republicans will win more elections not by
restricting the vote but by appealing to the voters,” said
Edgar, whose Washington-based advocacy group supports changing
voting laws. “I would say to Republicans, ‘Take a look at this
last election. If you really want to be a viable political
party, work collaboratively, fix the election system. Then let’s
compete fairly.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 