-- Deutsche Bank Said to Fire 10 Traders as Banks Retrench
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2013-02-08T17:23:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/deutsche-bank-said-to-fire-10-energy-traders-as-banks-retrench.html
Deutsche Bank AG fired 10 to 12
European power and natural gas traders in London as it cuts
staff trading physical commodities, two people with knowledge of
the matter said.  There are at least two traders still unwinding positions as
Europe’s biggest lender is reducing trading in physical energy
markets, said the people, who asked for anonymity because the
information is private.  Nick Bone , a company spokesman in
London, declined to comment when reached yesterday by phone.  Deutsche Bank , based in Frankfurt, follows JPMorgan Chase &
Co. and Bank of America Corp. in shutting some units trading
commodities because of tighter regulation in Europe and the U.S.
after the financial crisis. Deutsche Bank has also made cuts
among its U.S. gas and power traders, a person briefed on the
matter said in December.  “Liquidity in the European gas and power markets should
not be affected immensely,”  Gary Hornby , an analyst at Inenco
Group Ltd. in Lytham St. Annes, England, said today by e-mail.
“If more banks decide to go down this route, liquidity could be
affected in the future.”  The London-based traders at Deutsche Bank left in early
December, the people said. The company is still offering
commodity derivatives and clearing services from Frankfurt,
according to a leaflet available at its stand at a conference in
Essen, Germany, on Feb. 6.  Fourth-Quarter Loss  The bank posted a fourth-quarter loss of 2.17 billion euros
($2.9 billion), compared with a 147 million-euro profit a year
earlier, according to a Jan. 31 earnings statement. Quarterly
revenues from commodities declined due to “reduced client
activity,” it said in the statement.  Deutsche Bank  announced  in July plans to reduce headcount
by 1,900, including 1,500 positions in corporate banking and
securities, which energy falls under. The job cuts are expected
to save 350 million euros.  Deutsche Bank last month named  Louise Kitchen  and  Richard Jefferson  as co-heads of commodities. Both are based in London
and are replacing  David Silbert . The bank has been trading
European power and gas markets since at least 2003.  Barclays Plc  suspended research in agricultural commodities
in January and withdrew on Nov. 22 from floor trading on the
London Metal Exchange, the world’s biggest metals bourse, to cut
costs. The U.K.’s second-largest lender lost at least 11
European gas and power traders in the sixteen months through
July reflecting bonus caps, limits on the amount of money
traders can risk and shrinking revenue from the division that
includes commodities.  Biggest Market  Power prices in Germany, Europe’s biggest market, slumped
to a record this month and volatility for the benchmark contract
fell to a nine-year low in December. German power for next-year
slumped to 40.20 euros a megawatt-hour on Feb. 1, the lowest
since 2005, according to prices from the European Energy
Exchange AG on Bloomberg. The contract closed today at 42.25
euros.  EON SE, Germany’s biggest utility, revised its earnings
target last month as the slide in power prices are cutting
profits made from selling electricity generated from natural
gas. Commodities stagnated in 2012, with the Standard & Poor’s
 GSCI gauge  of 24 raw materials rising 0.3 percent, compared with
a 2.1 percent gain in 2011 and a 20 percent advance in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  