-- Doctor Says Christie Yelled at Her After Weight Remarks
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2013-02-08T21:34:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/doctor-says-christie-yelled-at-her-after-weight-remarks.html
New Jersey  Governor  Chris Christie ,
who told former White House physician Connie Mariano to “shut
up” for talking about his weight, followed up with an angry
telephone call, the doctor said.  “It was hard to get anything across,”  Mariano, who
treated Presidents  Bill Clinton , George H.W. Bush and  George W. Bush , said in an  interview  broadcast yesterday on KTVK, a
Phoenix television station owned by Belo Corp.  A debate about Christie’s weight started after the 50-year-
old Republican, who’s seeking a second term, appeared Feb. 4 on
CBS Inc.’s “Late Show with  David Letterman ,” where the
governor has been a target of jokes about his girth. Christie,
who has said he struggled with his weight since he stopped
playing sports as a teenager, nibbled on a doughnut as a gag
during the interview.  On CNN the next day, Mariano said Christie  “may have a
heart attack, may have a stroke,” and warned that he could die.
At a Feb. 6 news conference, Christie called Mariano a “hack,”
criticized her for assessing him from afar and said she should
“shut up.”  Christie telephoned her after the news conference, Mariano
told KTVK. Asked whether Christie yelled, she said yes. The
governor has never disclosed his weight.  Christie, at a news briefing today, said he spoke with the
physician, who now has a private practice in Scottsdale,
Arizona.  “I had a private conversation with Dr. Mariano and I
intend to keep it private,” Christie told reporters in Trenton.  Christie Fan  Mariano, who described herself as a one-time Christie fan,
said she’s reconsidering her support for his possible run for
U.S. president in 2016.  “If this is the way you handle stress, is this
presidential?” Mariano said. “I have to think about that. Is
this a presidential way to behave? Come on.”  Mariano said she’s received “lots of hate mails, lots of
threatening -- sort of mean -- stuff” since making her comments
about Christie.  “He even admitted he’s got a plan, he has a doctor,” she
said. “I said, ’Well, please go forth and do that, because
people are concerned about you.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  