-- Team New Zealand Gets Last Shot at America’s Cup as Costs Surge
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2013-02-08T01:27:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/team-new-zealand-gets-last-shot-at-america-s-cup-as-costs-surge.html
Team New Zealand can’t match
billionaire  Larry Ellison ’s budget in the America’s Cup this
year so it’s relying on sailing nous for what managing director
 Grant Dalton  sees as a last chance to reclaim the trophy.  As the defending champion, Oracle Corp. Chief Executive
Officer Ellison’s sailing syndicate set the rules for the Sept.
7-21 series in San Francisco Bay, opting for the AC72 multihull
design, a 72-foot (22 meters) catamaran with a carbon-fiber sail
that’s bigger than the wing on a Boeing Co. 747 jet and took
four times as long to build as previous boats.  “Billionaires’ egos get to set the criteria,” Dalton said
in a Bloomberg Television interview at the Auckland harbor
warehouse where his team was preparing the second version of its
boat. “It is just ridiculously out of control, expensive.”  Team New Zealand, the only commercial crew to have survived
in the competition since 2007, is relying on sponsors including
Emirates Airline, Omega SA,  Toyota Motor Corp.  and the New
Zealand government to fund a challenge that can cost more than
$100 million. Ellison, the eighth-richest person in the world
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, has a net worth
of $40.6 billion, more than New Zealand’s Gross Domestic Product
of NZ$36.3 billion ($30.3 billion) in the quarter to Sept. 30.  Other challengers, including Gunvor Group Ltd. CEO  Torbjorn Tornqvist ’s Artemis Racing, will have budgets at least twice as
big as Team New Zealand, Dalton said. They’ll contest the Louis
Vuitton Cup from July 7 in San Francisco, with the winner of
that regatta facing Oracle Team USA for the America’s Cup.  ‘Last Shot’  “In its way, it’s the last shot for this team,” Dalton
added. “Maybe it’ll manifest itself in another way because the
brand is so strong, but as a put-together sponsorship package
with the dollars adding up to create the sum, it won’t happen
like that again.”  Team New Zealand ’s eight-year reign as holders of the so-
called Auld Mug from 1995 to 2003 brought more than NZ$1 billion
into the nation’s economy, inspired the redevelopment of a
rundown waterfront in Auckland and grew a boat building and
service industry, according to a statement from the team.  The America’s Cup began in 1851 when the schooner America
defeated a fleet of British yachts off England’s South Coast.
The New York Yacht Club held on to the trophy for 132 years
until Australia II, financed by Australian investor  Alan Bond ,
beat Dennis Connor’s Liberty in 1983.  Swiss Sweep  The U.S. reclaimed the trophy in 1987 and held it until
1995 when New Zealand’s Black Magic won in San Diego. Following
a repeat victory in 2000, New Zealand’s team fell apart. Skipper
 Russell Coutts  moved to Swiss-based Alinghi, which he led to a
5-0 sweep of New Zealand in 2003. Dalton, who competed in seven
round-the-world yacht races over two decades accumulating more
than 375,000 nautical miles of ocean racing, then took over.  He put together a crew including skipper Dean Barker, who
has been with Team New Zealand since 1995, wing trimmer Glen
Ashby, the winner of 14 world championships across three
multihull classes, and grinder  Rob Waddell , a former Olympic
rowing gold medalist in the single sculls.  “We’re unified as a team, we’re culturally strong,”
Dalton added. “We can’t fight them on a money platform so we
have to fight them on a culture platform.”  Three years ago, Ellison’s BMW-Oracle team beat Alinghi in
a so-called Deed of Gift match off Valencia, Spain, after
winning a court fight to become the official challenger. Oracle
sailed a 90-foot trimaran with a 223-foot carbon-fiber wing sail
against Alinghi’s catamaran in the contest.  Ellison opted to defend the Cup in the multihull AC72,
meaning teams will race similar catamarans, powered by carbon-
fiber wing sails and capable of speeds exceeding 30 knots.  Wing Sail  The AC72’s wing sail has an area of 260 square meters
(2,798 square feet) and is 40 meters (131.5 feet) high, compared
with 85 square meters and a height of 21.5 meters, for its AC45
predecessor. Its gennaker, or downwind sail, is 320 square
meters compared with 115 square meters for the AC45.  Team New Zealand said the first AC72 it tested last year
reached speeds close to 40 knots and the second version unveiled
Feb. 4 may go as fast as 48 knots. The team has a boat equipped
with four 300 horsepower engines to keep up with the catamaran.  The Oracle Team USA boat capsized during training in San
Francisco Bay in October after nosediving and flipping in 25
knot winds, showing the fine line that exists between reaching
racing potential and disaster.  “This is the Formula One of sailing,” Barker said. “We
are certainly pushing the limits.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  