-- Lear Rises as Investor Group Seeks Board Seats
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-02-08T21:22:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/lear-rises-as-investor-group-seeks-board-seats.html
Lear Corp.  rose the most in more than
a year after an investor group said it may nominate directors
and push the auto-parts maker to return more cash to
shareholders.  Lear, based in Southfield, Michigan, gained 6.3 percent to
$53.98 at the close in New York, the biggest one-day  jump  since
Feb. 3, 2012.  Investors  Marcato Capital Management LLC, founded by  Mick McGuire , and Oskie Capital Management LLC said they intend to
nominate directors at Lear’s annual meeting this year. The
group, representing 5.6 percent of shares outstanding, said they
spoke with management Feb. 6 about ways to boost shareholder
value, including share repurchases. The next day, Lear said it
would accelerate a buyback program and raised its  dividend .  “Notwithstanding the announcement,” the investor group
said it plans to have further talks with Lear management,
according to a regulatory filing today. The group, which didn’t
provide more details on the candidates they may propose for the
board, said they bought shares in Lear because they deem the
stock undervalued.  Lear said Feb. 1 its board increased a share-repurchase
program by $800 million to $1 billion, to be completed over
three years. Yesterday, Lear said it would buy $600 million
worth of its shares this year and boosted the quarterly dividend
21 percent to 17 cents a share. Lear’s enterprise value to sales
is 0.28, the  second-lowest  among global auto suppliers, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The market has perceived management to have been
lethargic in its actual repurchase of shares,”  Matthew Stover ,
an auto analyst with Guggenheim Securities in Boston, wrote in a
research note titled “Let the Activism Begin”. Including debt
and an estimated $1 billion cash by year’s end, Lear could
return as much as  $1.5 billion in capital to shareholders, said
Stover, who recommends buying the shares.  Lear has increased 19 percent in the past 12 months
compared with a 12 percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  