-- Early Rockefeller Plans Seen as 2014 Model for Democrats
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2013-02-08T16:53:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/early-rockefller-plans-seen-as-2014-model-for-democrats.html
Senate Democratic leaders have a
message for their members unsure whether to run for re-election
in 2014: Making an early decision will help the party keep
control of the chamber.  Leaders of both parties don’t want to be caught off guard
as Republicans were last year when Maine Senator  Olympia Snowe 
announced her retirement just eight months before the Nov. 6
election. That helped scuttle Republicans’ plan to gain the
Senate majority.  Two Democrats -- Iowa’s  Tom Harkin  and West Virginia’s  Jay Rockefeller  -- and one Republican,  Saxby Chambliss  of Georgia,
already have announced they won’t seek re-election in 2014.
Political strategists in both parties are watching others,
including Democrats  Tim Johnson  of South Dakota and  Frank Lautenberg  of New Jersey and Republican  Susan Collins  of Maine,
for signs that they won’t run again.  “Strategists really want these incumbents to make a
decision sooner rather than later so they can put the necessary
plans in place to account for that,” said  Nathan Gonzales , a
political analyst for the non-partisan Rothenberg Political
Report in Washington.  Early notice of retirements is particularly important for
Democrats, who will have 21 seats up in the Senate next year,
compared with 14 for Republicans.  Democrats, who control 55 votes in the 100-member chamber,
will be defending seats in seven states President  Barack Obama 
lost last year: Alaska, Arkansas, Louisiana, Montana, North
Carolina, South Dakota and West Virginia. A loss of the Senate
majority to Republicans would mean that party would control both
houses of Congress during Obama’s last two years in office.  ‘Right Moment’  Rockefeller, who has served in the Senate since 1985,
announced Jan. 11 that he won’t seek a sixth term. He said that
he decided it was the “right moment” for him “to find new
ways to fight for the causes” in which he believes.  The 75-year-old Commerce Committee chairman’s decision
gives Republicans an opportunity to pick up a seat in a state
where Obama won just 36 percent of the vote last year.  Seven-term Republican Representative  Shelley Moore Capito ,
59, announced Nov. 26 that she would run for the Senate seat.
The first Republican woman to represent West Virginia in
Congress, Capito on Nov. 6 won 69.8 percent of the vote in her
district, which encompasses about one-third of the state,
including Charleston, the state capital.  Still, Republicans have lost 21 consecutive Senate races in
West Virginia during more than half a century. The state votes
Democratic in most statewide elections, including for governor
and the state legislature, though voters have favored the
Republican candidates in the last three presidential races.  Iowa Seat  Creating another headache for Democrats, Harkin, 73,
announced Jan. 27 that he wouldn’t seek a sixth term in a state
that Obama carried by six points in November. Harkin’s move will
create the first open Senate seat in Iowa since 1974.  Four-term U.S. Representative  Bruce Braley , a Democrat,
announced via his Twitter feed yesterday that he would run for
the post.  Republican Representatives  Steve King , a leader of the Tea
Party movement in Congress, and  Tom Latham , who is close to
House Speaker  John Boehner , are seen as potential candidates.  “A Democratic retirement rings the dinner bell for
Republicans,” said  John Pitney , a political scientist and
professor at Claremont McKenna College in Claremont,
California.“It really gets their attention and raises their
hopes that they might gain a seat, particularly in a year that
Democrats have a lot more seats at stake than Republicans.”  In 2012 Democrats picked up two seats though they were
defending 23, compared with 10 for the Republicans.  ‘Legislative Gridlock’  With the risk of a primary challenge, Georgia’s Chambliss
announced Jan. 25 that he wouldn’t seek a third term. Chambliss,
69, cited frustration with “legislative gridlock” as his
reason for stepping aside.  As a member of the so-called Gang of Six, a group of
senators who unsuccessfully pushed a $3.7 trillion deficit-
cutting plan in 2011, Chambliss was seen as vulnerable in a
primary because he proposed revenue increases opposed by many
Republicans.  Two U.S. House members from Georgia,  Tom Price  and  Paul Broun , had considered running against Chambliss in a primary,
according to the Atlanta-Journal Constitution. Broun, 66,
announced his candidacy Feb. 6.  The non-partisan Cook Political Report in Washington rates
the Iowa and West Virginia races as tossups. The group rates the
Georgia race as “likely Republican.”  Tom Daschle  Since 2004, just three incumbent Democratic senators were
defeated: South Dakota’s  Tom Daschle  (then the Senate minority
leader) in 2004 and Arkansas’  Blanche Lincoln  and Wisconsin’s
 Russ Feingold  in 2010, when Democrats’ Senate majority was cut
by six seats.  The chance of a Democrat winning a June 25 special election
to fill the seat that Democrat  John Kerry  vacated when he became
Secretary of State improved Feb. 1 when former Republican
Senator  Scott Brown  announced he wouldn’t enter the race.  Brown, who won a January 2010 special election to fill the
seat of the late  Edward Kennedy , was defeated in the November
election by Democrat  Elizabeth Warren .  Incumbent Advantage  Whoever wins the special election would have the advantage
of running as an incumbent for a full term in 2014. Democrat
 William Cowan , who was sworn in yesterday as an interim
replacement for Kerry, has said he will serve only until the
special election is held  South Dakota’s Johnson, who suffered a brain hemorrhage in
December 2006 that kept him away from the Senate for almost a
year, has said he will announce in the next several months
whether he will seek a fourth term.  According to a report filed with the Federal Election
Commission, Johnson raised and spent about $100,000 in the last
three months of 2012 and has about $1.2 million in cash on hand.  If he decides to run, he could face a tough race. Former
two-term Republican Governor Mike Rounds has announced he will
seek the post.  Meanwhile, Democrats may have to contend with a primary
battle in New Jersey where Lautenberg, 89, plans to seek re-
election. Newark Mayor  Cory Booker  last month formed an
exploratory committee aimed at investigating a Senate run. Fox
News media personality  Geraldo Rivera  has said he’s considering
entering the race as a Republican.  Lautenberg said next year’s race wasn’t “a matter of
principal interest” for him.  “2014 is a good year,” he said, adding that, in the
meantime, he had “so much work to do” in the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  