-- Earthquakes Hit Gas-Rich Groningen Province in Netherlands
-- B y   F r e d   P a l s
-- 2013-02-08T10:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/earthquakes-hit-gas-rich-groningen-province-in-the-netherlands.html
The Dutch province of Groningen,
which sits on the Slochteren natural gas deposit, was hit by two
earthquakes as pressure grows on  Royal Dutch Shell Plc  and  Exxon
Mobil Corp.  to cut output amid forecasts for heavier temblors.  Two quakes measuring 3.2 and 2.7 on the Richter scale
struck the area just before midnight and in the early morning
today, the Royal Netherlands Meteorological Institute, or KNMI,
said in a statement on its website. The village of Zandeweer,
200 kilometers (124 miles) northeast of Amsterdam, was at the
epicenter, according to the KNMI.  The Nederlandse Aardolie Maatschappij BV, or NAM, the Dutch
gas-production venture of Shell and Exxon that operates the
Slochteren field, said today in a statement that it will
compensate all damage resulting from the quakes. The company has
set aside 100 million euros ($134 million) for claims.  “NAM has taken immediate action and is in contact with the
relevant governments and services,” according to the statement
on the company’s website. “Earthquakes have taken place in the
northern Netherlands since 1986 and have been linked by experts
to gas production.”  Increasing Strength  The strength of earthquakes triggered by gas production in
the region may rise to 5 on the Richter scale, according to a
study released last month by the State Supervision of Mining at
the Ministry of Economic Affairs. An Aug. 16 quake last year,
measuring 3.4, damaged the property of about 2,500 people. The
biggest earthquake ever in the Netherlands hit the southern
province of Limburg in 1992, reaching 5.8 on the scale.  The Slochteren field has generated about half of the more
than 160 billion euros in gas proceeds for the Netherlands since
its discovery in 1959. In 2011 NAM produced about 61 billion
cubic meters of gas, more than 75 percent of which came from
Slochteren, according to the company’s website. The Netherlands
consumed 38 billion cubic meters of gas that year, according to
BP Plc’s Statistical Review.  The Dutch parliament discussed the risks of gas production
yesterday as municipalities and the executives of the province
council urge the government and field operators to lower output
and slow activity.  Henk Kamp , the minister of economic affairs
with energy in his portfolio, has said he will make a decision
by the end of this year on whether or not to cut output, the
local news agency, ANP, reported yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fred Pals in Amsterdam at 
 fpals@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Foxwell at 
 sfoxwell@bloomberg.net  