-- ECB Says Banks to Repay 5 Billion Euros of Three-Year Loans
-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2013-02-08T11:06:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ecb-says-banks-to-repay-5-billion-euros-of-three-year-loans.html
The European Central Bank said banks
will repay 5 billion euros ($6.7 billion) of its emergency
three-year loans next week.  A total of 21 financial institutions will use the third
opportunity for early repayment of the first three-year loan,
the Frankfurt-based ECB said in a statement today. Banks have
returned 140.6 billion euros of the long-term funds in the past
two weeks. The ECB’s first loan totaled 489 billion euros and
banks can make early repayments on a weekly basis after a year.  While the ECB doesn’t provide a breakdown of the
institutions returning the loans, some banks have indicated that
they’re handing money back.  Banco Santander SA  said it returned
24 billion euros of the longer-term refinancing operations and
 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA , or BBVA, gave 8 billion
euros back.  “The repayment of the LTRO is a sign of confidence,” ECB
President  Mario Draghi  said yesterday. Repayments “are at the
discretion of the counterparties, who must appropriately assess
their funding situation, their ability to provide new loans to
the economy and their resilience to shocks.”  The ECB’s balance sheet shrank to the smallest in almost a
year after banks started to repay the loans. Less liquidity in
financial markets boosted banks’ borrowing costs. The rate on
three-month Euribor futures expiring in December 2013 rose to as
high as 0.58 percent last week from 0.25 percent at the
beginning of the year.  Draghi said excess liquidity should remain “well above”
200 billion euros even if banks take the opportunity later this
month to repay funds borrowed in the second three-year
operation. A total of just over 1 trillion euros was lent over
the two tenders.  “We will exert vigilance to ensure that, notwithstanding
the legitimate decisions of individual banks to reduce their
liabilities to the central bank, the overall liquidity
conditions prevailing in the money market will remain consistent
with the degree of accommodation that the current outlook for
prices and real activity warrant,” ECB Executive Board member
 Peter Praet  said on Jan. 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  