-- Egyptians Demonstrate, Vent Anger on Presidential Palace
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y   a n d   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-02-09T16:57:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/egyptians-rally-as-tunisia-opposition-leader-death-stirs-unrest.html
Demonstrators threw Molotov cocktails
and rocks at the main presidential palace in Cairo yesterday, as
thousands rallied against President Mohamed Mursi and his Muslim
Brotherhood in protests that ignited clashes across the country.  The army put up barbed wire, and the Republican Guard
fanned around the palace. Police used tear gas to disperse
protesters armed with the Molotov cocktails that set parts of
the palace on fire, the official Middle East News Agency
reported, citing an interior ministry official. Security forces
also clashed with protesters around President Mohamed Mursi’s
house and Freedom and Justice Party headquarters in al-Sharqiya,
MENA said.  Protesters in the capital marched from the Mostafa Mahmoud
Mosque to Tahrir Square, and from the Nour Mosque to the palace.
Demonstrators blocked the subway at Sadat station in the
direction of the southern Helwan suburb, state-run Ahram Gate
said.  Police also fired tear gas at demonstrators in Alexandria
and in the Delta province of Kafr al-Sheikh, where protesters
were attempting to storm the city’s governorate headquarters,
state-run al Ahram said on its website.  Death, Injuries  One person died and 216 others were wounded in clashes in
five provinces, including Egypt, Alexandria and Gharbeya, MENA
said, citing spokesman for the Health Ministry Ahmed Omar. It
was not clear how many of the injured were police.  An
unidentified security official at the interior ministry told
MENA that 102 police officers and soldiers were wounded, some
with gunshot wounds, while 93 people were arrested.  A prosecutor ordered the detention of 19 people pending
investigations on charges of sabotage and violence around the
presidential palace, the Heliopolis prosecution office said in a
faxed statement today.  Egypt’s opposition called Feb. 7 for calm in anticipation
of the protests, expressing concern that  murder of Tunisian
opposition leader Chukri Beleid in Tunis the previous day could
trigger further unrest in the region and lead to copycat
killings of opposition leaders in Egypt.  Tensions already were running high in Egypt, where Mursi
has been accused of failing to deliver on campaign pledges.
Unrest and violence, inspired by secularist suspicions over the
Islamist leader’s motives, have left dozens dead in the past
week and further stunted government efforts to revive the
economy, which is struggling to recover from the turmoil that
followed the revolt.  ‘Dangerous Indicators’  The economy has grown about 2 percent annually in the past
two years, the slowest pace since the early 1990s. Egypt is
seeking a $4.8 billion International Monetary Fund loan.  Secularists in Egypt interpreted a religious edict by
cleric Mohamed Shaaban as giving the go-ahead to kill Mursi’s
opponents. The cleric named National Salvation Front opposition
leaders such as Hamdeen Sabahi in comments aired live on the al-
Hafez religious satellite channel on Feb. 2, and said “God’s
verdict is death” for those “who want to burn Egypt.”  Egypt’s Cabinet said Feb. 7 it was examining measures to
criminalize such fatwas, while the prosecutor general ordered an
investigation.  “This kind of fatwa is the outcome of the polarization
that has dominated the Egyptian political atmosphere” in recent
months, Khalil al-Anani, a political analyst at Durham
University in the U.K., said by phone. The edict, and Beleid’s
assassination, are “very dangerous indicators that the
political conflict can turn violent” if the Islamists fail to
take a firm stance against incitements to violence.  Beleid’s death “is a very serious warning,” the Popular
Current party, headed by former presidential hopeful Sabahi,
said on its Facebook page. “It could mean the Arab Spring
countries might go through a series of assassinations of the
opposition.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  