-- Heineken Reshuffles Asia, Europe Management After APB Takeover
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2013-02-08T16:13:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/heineken-reshuffles-asia-europe-management-after-apb-takeover.html
Heineken NV , the world’s third-
largest brewer, said today it will reorganize its management
committee after agreeing to purchase full control of its Asia
Pacific Breweries Ltd. unit.  Heineken, which paid S$5.6 billion ($4.5 billion) to  buy
out  its joint venture partner’s stake in APB to gain total
ownership of its south-east Asian brewery operations,  said  that
ABP Chief Executive Officer  Roland Pirmez  will join its
executive committee as president of Asia Pacific. It also named
 Alexis Nasard , current chief commercial officer, as president of
its Western Europe unit and chief marketing officer.  Nasard’s dual role “appears to indicate a stronger focus
on top-line growth in Western Europe going forward,”  Ian Shackleton , an analyst at Nomura in London, wrote today. “We
are starting to see him as a potential successor as group CEO.”  Western Europe represented about 43 percent of Heineken’s
 revenue last year . Heineken said in October that third-quarter
consolidated beer volume fell 2.6 percent in the region,
excluding acquisitions and disposals, as economic pressures
weighed on consumer spending.  Didier Debrosse , currently head of
the region, will become managing director of its Brazil
operations. The CCO role will cease to exist.  Heineken, based in Amsterdam, appointed  Stefan Orlowski ,
managing director in the U.K., to the executive committee as
successor to  John Nicolson , president of the Americas. Nicholson
retires in July this year.  Jan Derck van Karnebeek  was named
chief sales officer in addition to his role running central and
eastern Europe.  Growth Objectives  Theo de Rond , current head of Asia Pacific for Heineken,
will no longer sit on the company’s executive committee, and
will represent Heineken on the boards of its businesses in
Thailand, Indonesia, Japan and Vietnam as executive director,
partnerships.  “Looking to the future, these significant changes will
ensure that we have the people, structures and processes in
place to realize our long-term growth objectives,” Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Francois van Boxmeer  wrote in the
statement.  Heineken, which got shareholder approval to buy APB last
year after a bidding war with Thai billionaire Charoen
Sirivadhanabhakdi said today that it expects to make savings
from the deal of about 25 million euros ($33.5 million) over two
years. The company is scheduled to report results on Feb. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  