-- Einhorn’s Call for Apple Preferred Bucks Trend: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-08T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/einhorn-s-call-for-apple-preferred-bucks-trend-chart-of-the-day.html
David Einhorn’s call for Apple Inc.
to distribute preferred shares to the iPhone and iPad maker’s
investors is at odds with a growing tendency for companies to
shun this form of equity.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, the number of
companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index with preferred
stock outstanding fell in every year but one during the past
decade and a half. The exception was 2009, when several banks
sold the shares to raise funds after a financial crisis.  Sixty-three companies in the S&P 500 have preferred stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from their most recent
financial statements. The total fell from 164 companies at the
end of 1997, the year when Apple sold convertible preferred
shares to Microsoft Corp. for $150 million.  Microsoft converted its stake into common stock within four
years. Apple hasn’t had any preferred equity since then, and the
Cupertino, California-based company would lose the ability to
issue new shares under a proposed amendment to its charter.  “They’re just getting rid of a relic,”  Brian Barish ,
president and chief investment officer of Cambiar Investors LLC,
said yesterday in a phone interview. Barish’s Denver-based firm
manages about $7 billion.  Einhorn  urged Apple’s investors to oppose the charter
change and support a preferred-stock distribution in a letter
sent yesterday. Greenlight Capital Inc., a New York-based hedge
fund where he serves as president, filed a lawsuit that alleges
the company improperly combined the amendment and two unrelated
proposals for a shareholder vote on Feb. 27.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  