-- Telecom Italia Forecasts Earnings Drop for 2013, Cuts Dividend
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2013-02-08T12:41:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/telecom-italia-earnings-trail-estimates-as-debt-misses-target.html
Telecom Italia SpA , Italy’s biggest
phone company, forecast declining earnings for this year and
said it plans to cut its dividend after reporting 2012 profit
that trailed analysts’ estimates. The stock fell.  Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization will drop by a “low-single digit” percentage in
2013, when excluding currency swings, acquisitions, disposals
and non-organic income, the Milan-based company said today in a
statement.  Revenue  on that basis will be stable, it said.
Adjusted net debt will fall to less than 27 billion euros in
2013 ($36 billion) from 28.3 billion euros at the end of 2012.  Telecom Italia and other former European phone monopolies
are suffering as competition and contracting economies crimp
sales and margins. Telecom Italia, whose  debt  is more than
double its market value, said it will cut its dividend payment
by about half. The company is also considering sales of assets
including its fixed-line network and television unit to reduce
borrowings and raise money for investments.  “Operating numbers were on the weak side,” analysts at
Espirito Santo said in a report to clients.  The stock  dropped  as much as 5.7 percent and declined 1.6
percent to 66.3 cents at 1:36 p.m. in Milan, giving the company
a market value of about 12 billion euros.  Telecom Italia also said it will sell as much as 3 billion
euros of hybrid subordinated debt securities within 18 to 24
months to bolster its finances.  Italian Recession  Ebitda fell 4.2 percent to 11.7 billion euros last year as
revenue declined in its domestic market struggling with a
 recession . Analysts had  estimated  11.8 billion euros, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales  last year decreased 1.5 percent to 29.5 billion
euros, compared with the 29.6 billion-euro average estimate. The
results are preliminary and final earnings are scheduled for
March 7.  The company said it plans to pay about 450 million euros in
dividends a year through 2015. Last year, Telecom Italia paid
out about 900 million euros. The dividend to be paid this year
will be 1.97 cents a share, down from 4.3 cents last year. The
company was projected to cut its dividend to 4 cents, based on
 Bloomberg dividend forecasts .  The company also plans further cost reductions, targeting
cumulative savings of 1.3 billion euros in Italy from 2013
through 2015, Chief Operating Officer  Marco Patuano  said on a
conference call.  Debt Miss  Adjusted net debt fell to 28.3 billion euros at the end of
December from 29.5 billion euros at the end of September. The
company had predicted it would drop to about 27.5 billion euros.  The debt is “slightly higher than expected and materially
above” Telecom Italia’s target,  Tim Boddy , an analyst at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc., said today in a note.  Telecom Italia had predicted 2012 organic revenue and
Ebitda would be “essentially unchanged.” On that basis, Ebitda
fell 2 percent, while sales climbed 0.5 percent.  “The group continues to pursue debt reduction through
robust cash generation, which will help to fund the development
of network infrastructure in Italy and abroad, which we believe
is crucial,” Chief Executive Officer  Franco Bernabe  said.  In Italy, fixed-line sales fell 5.2 percent to 12.8 billion
euros and mobile sales dropped 7 percent to 6.62 billion euros.  Telecom Italia also said its board postponed the decision
about a potential sale of its television unit  Telecom Italia
Media SpA  to a future meeting.  Telecom Italia said in May that it was beginning the
process to sell its media assets to focus on its main business
and reduce borrowings. Telecom Italia controls 77.7 percent of
its TV unit, which owns the La7 channel and 51 percent of MTV
Italia. It also owns broadcasting infrastructure assets.  The company is in “ongoing negotiations” about a spinoff
of its network, Bernabe said, without providing further details.
The company, seeking funds to revive growth, said last year it
will consider separating the network from its other businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Ludden at 
 jludden@bloomberg.net  