-- Help Wanted at Linamar in Bid to Triple Sales by 2020
-- B y   M a r k   C l o t h i e r   a n d   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-02-08T21:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/help-wanted-at-linamar-in-bid-to-triple-sales-by-2020.html
Linamar Corp ., the third-best
performing auto-parts stock in the past year, says the biggest
obstacle to its goal of tripling revenue and boosting profit
seven-fold is finding skilled workers willing to earn C$80,000
($80,000) a year.  Chief Executive Officer  Linda Hasenfratz , 46, says she can
“absolutely” reach C$10 billion in revenue and C$1 billion
profit by 2020. The company is supplying cylinder blocks and cam
shafts to automakers, who are shifting engine and transmission
work to vendors, and is winning more business in Europe and
Asia.  The challenge will be finding the people able to do those
jobs, including machinists, millwrights, electricians, engineers
and accountants, said Hasenfratz, the only female CEO of a
publicly traded auto-parts supplier in North America. The hunt
has taken the Guelph, Ontario-based company to the Philippines,
where it hired about 50 skilled journeymen who started work in
Canada last year.  “The bigger risk to us to meet our plans is our ability to
find and develop the people we need,” Hasenfratz said at an
interview in Bloomberg’s Toronto office on Feb. 5. She estimates
annual hiring needs would be comparable to the company’s sales
growth. “You can’t underestimate the human capital you need to
pull off 10 to 15 percent growth a year.”  Linamar, which has  Ford Motor Co . as its biggest customer
with 31 percent of sales, will post record revenue and profit of
C$3.25 billion and C$146.5 million respectively in 2012,
according to analysts’ estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg. It would
be Linamar’s second straight year of record sales.  Goals ‘Realistic’  Linamar’s sales and profit goals are “realistic and very
achievable,”  Dennis DesRosiers , president of DesRosiers
Automotive Consultants in Richmond Hill, Ontario, said in an
interview. The company should be able to find workers to fuel
growth, he said.  Linamar  rose  0.50 percent to C$26.03 at 4 p.m. in Toronto.
The parts maker has risen 45 percent in the past 12 months, the
third-best performance in the automotive-supply sector after
Cooper Tire & Rubber Co. and Denso Corp., according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg,  Six of the seven  analysts  who follow Linamar rate it a
“buy,” while one suggests holding the shares. Analysts
estimate the stock will rise 12 percent in the next 12 months,
after a 66 percent gain in 2012.  The stock outpaced  Magna International Inc. , North
America’s largest auto supplier and a company 10 times its size
in sales, by 19.5 percentage points in the past year. Investors
are paying a 22 percent  premium  over  Magna .  Skills Shortage  Advanced manufacturing is among the occupations facing a
shortage of skilled laborers in Canada, along with health
related occupations, the mining industry and business services,
according to a Dec. 3 report by  Benjamin Tal , an economist with
the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce.  Unemployment in those fields has dropped to about 1 percent
and wages have risen at an average annual rate of 3.9 percent,
more than double the rate for the economy as a whole, the report
said. The day the report was released Canadian Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  said shortages of skilled labor in some sectors was
a “serious” issue.  Linamar, which employs 16,772 people, has 352 employees in
apprentice programs studying to be electricians and millwrights.
Linamar’s average pay in Canada for those positions is about
C$80,000, Hasenfratz said. The company hired 1,000 people in
2012.  “In Germany, there’s keen regard for people who have a
skilled trade,” she said. “In North America, I find we don’t
encourage our kids to go down that path. Maybe there’s a lack of
understanding about the earning potential and the promotion
potential for those positions.”  Shop Floor  They’ve also selected about 250 people globally for a five-
year management training program, a formal version of the one
she began in 1990, when she joined the company her father,
 Frank , founded 24 years before. More than 60 percent of the
people who run Linamar’s factories began their careers on the
shop floor, she said. Plant manager jobs pay as much as
C$200,000, she said.  Hasenfratz meets with employees quarterly in the “Frank
Hasenfratz Centre for Excellence in Manufacturing,” in the
company’s hometown about 100 kilometers (62 miles) west of
Toronto.  “We’re working to train our own, but they’re hard to find
and hire on the outside,” Hasenfratz said. “We need more
involvement from governments, but I don’t know how you change
the culture to get people interested in these areas.”  Acquisitions, probably of small- to medium-sized companies,
will help achieve the 2020 revenue target, the CEO said. The
company is willing to pay C$100 million to C$300 million on such
acquisitions, she said.  Europe Slowing  The company is concentrated on North America, which made up
78 percent of sales in  2011 . Asia made up 3 percent of sales.
Hasenfratz said by 2020, sales outside North America should
comprise half of Linamar’s revenue, split between Europe and
Asia.  Linamar sees potential in automakers’ demand in North
America, while forecasting more slowing in Europe. Automakers
there are lowering output to match demand. While Europe could be
down as much as 5 percent this year, the U.S. market could
increase 3 percent to 5 percent, Hasenfratz said.  Researcher IHS Automotive is forecasting light vehicle
production of 15.9 million in North America, a 2.9 percent
increase over 2012. In Europe, IHS forecasts production of 18.6
million, a 3.1 percent decline.  “As we get through these hurdles and get some clarity,
people will feel more confident making decisions around where
they want to invest,” Hasenfratz said. “I think there could be
a little burst to economic activity.”  Outsourcing Rising  Linamar, which also makes cylinder heads, gears and other
engine and transmission parts, has gained business as automakers
have outsourced powertrain-parts production. Ford, Fiat SpA,
 General Motors Co.  and Caterpillar Inc., make up 63 percent of
sales. Linamar is also selling more to Volkswagen AG.  About 20 percent of engine and transmission parts are made
by suppliers, she said. That figure could rise to 40 percent by
2020, a $160 billion segment of the industry that alone could
provide the sales needed to reach C$10 billion, she said.
Japanese automakers are also starting to warm to the idea of
hiring suppliers to make those components, Hasenfratz said.  That forecast may even be conservative, DesRosiers says.
Production of engine and transmission parts are among the last
component groups still built by automakers, he said.  “Vehicle companies are so wrapped up just trying to manage
their vehicles that they’re less and less interested trying to
hold onto some of their component areas,” he said. “So Linamar
is in a win-win-win situation.”  Scissor Lifts  Linamar’s revenue target is “still a stretch goal,”
DesRosiers said. “But I’d be surprised if they don’t make it.”  The growth probably won’t require raising capital in the
debt markets or issuing new stock, she said. Linamar should be
able to pay for 10 percent to 15 percent annual growth mostly
with cash, she said.  Frank Hasenfratz , 78, remains Linamar’s chairman and its
largest  shareholder , holding 24 percent of the stock as of May
2012 for a stake worth C$397.2 million. Linda’s 5.8 percent
stake was worth about C$97.6 million.  Linda Hasenfratz is counting on growth in China, Europe and
the company’s industrial unit, which makes scissor lifts under
the Skyjack brand, to reach the revenue target. The industrial
unit contributes about one-third of Linamar’s sales, a balance
Hasenfratz expects will continue through 2020.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net ; Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
   aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  