-- Eni Stands by Chief Scaroni as Algerian Corruption Probe Widens
-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-02-08T12:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/eni-stands-by-chief-scaroni-as-algerian-corruption-probe-widens.html
Eni SpA  stood by its Chief Executive
Officer  Paolo Scaroni  as a probe into alleged bribery by  Saipem
SpA , where it’s the largest shareholder, widened to include him.  “Eni and its CEO declare themselves totally unrelated to
the object of the investigation,” the Rome-based oil company
said in a statement yesterday. Chairman  Giuseppe Recchi  told
Italian newspaper Corriere della Sera  today  that he sees no
reason for Scaroni to resign.  Several executives have already fallen amid an Italian
probe into the award of oil-services contracts to Saipem in
Algeria. In December Pietro Franco Tali quit as CEO of Saipem,
which also suspended the chief operating officer of its
engineering unit. Eni Chief Financial Officer Alessandro
Bernini, Saipem’s CFO until 2008, stepped down the same month.  “It’s conventional wisdom that oil companies operating in
certain areas of the world sometimes give bribes which, for a
small amount, can give access to huge contracts,” said  Nicolo Sartori , an energy analyst at Rome’s Institute for International
Affairs. “That doesn’t make it less illegal. If it happened,
people involved will be held accountable.”  Scaroni’s home and office have been searched as part of the
probe, and Eni has said it will cooperate fully with the
prosecutor’s office in Milan. Saipem said in December the
investigation involves the award of contracts up until 2009.  No Interference  Scaroni, 66, was appointed Eni CEO in June 2005. He is
serving his third term, which expires in 2014. Scaroni  told 
Italian newspaper La Repubblica he doesn’t and can’t interfere
with Saipem contracts because 90 percent of the company’s
operations are with Eni competitors.  Eni  rallied after two days of declines in Milan trading.
The shares rose as much as 1.6 percent to 17.61 euros, and were
at 17.53 euros as of 1:22 p.m. local time.  Saipem’s new CEO  Umberto Vergine  said yesterday that he
wasn’t aware of any new developments in the investigation and
the company has no plans to set aside financial provisions
related to the probe.  Saipem, which is 43 percent-owned by Eni and is Europe’s
biggest oil-services provider, has always denied any wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Alessandra Migliaccio  in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  