-- Lenovo Boosts Latin America Focus in Reorganization
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-08T16:14:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/lenovo-boosts-latin-america-focus-in-reorganization.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, will create a new
Americas division to sharpen focus on Latin American markets.  Gerry Smith , president of North America operations, will
oversee the enlarged division starting April 1, the company said
in an internal e-mail to employees yesterday that was confirmed
by Lenovo spokesman Jeffrey Shafer. The Beijing-based PC-maker’s
Latin America business had been grouped with Asia Pacific under
 Milko Van Duijl .  The new setup will smooth operations as employees in  South
America  will no longer need to coordinate decisions with Asia-
based managers in different times zones. Lenovo has also
announced plans for a new computer factory in Brazil and bought
a local maker of PCs, smartphones and tablets as economic growth
spurs demand.  “Geographic alignment makes management easier and more
effective for all of our leaders and for their teams,” Lenovo
said in the e-mail. “We are confident that the efficiency
benefits of this change will be significant.”  Latin America and Brazil accounted for the majority of a
1.6 percent decline in third-quarter sales at the Asia-Pacific
and Latin America business, Chief Financial Officer  Wong Wai Ming  said on an earnings conference call Jan. 30.  The $147 million acquisition of Digibras, the maker of CCE
brand PCs, “will help accelerate our expansion in the
country,” Wong said on the call. The purchase, completed last
month, doubled Lenovo’s PC market share in Brazil and boosted
its sales ranking to third from seventh.  Lenovo in July announced plans to spend $30 million
building a computer factory and a distribution center in Itu, in
the Brazilian state of São Paulo. The unit will have as many as
700 employees in two years, when it’s expected to reach maximum
capacity, Lenovo said at the time.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  