-- Equity Structured-Note Demand Signaling Rotation Out of Credit
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-02-08T10:22:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/equity-structured-note-demand-signaling-rotation-out-of-credit.html
The best start to a year in two
decades for stocks and the biggest loss for investment-grade
bonds in 14 months is prompting a surge in demand for equity-
linked structured notes.  U.S. sales of notes tied to stocks totaled $2.41 billion in
January, the most since September when the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index rose to a five-year high, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Equity-linked securities accounted for 71 percent of
the $3.39 billion of structured notes sold last month, up from
an average of 64 percent in 2012.  Mounting confidence in the global economy is fueling
speculation that the time may be right for a so-called great
rotation from bonds into stocks. An unprecedented flood of money
into bond funds last year, which helped push yields to record
lows, is reversing.  “Most investors are now in risk-on mode, meaning they are
increasingly bullish on stocks and are seriously considering the
shift from fixed income to equities,” said  Alain Alev , head of
equity derivative sales for Europe, the Middle East and Africa
at HSBC Holdings Plc in London. Demand for equity-linked
securities issued by HSBC climbed about 20 percent in January
from December, said Alev.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc increased sales of the
securities, including reverse convertibles and so-called  worst-
of basket notes, by between 30 percent and 40 percent during the
same period, said   Christian Kronseder , senior director of sales
and public distribution for Switzerland at the bank in Zurich.  Equity Forecast  “Our view is that total returns in equities will likely
surpass those of corporate credit over the coming years and
investors across the spectrum are actively looking for
intelligent ways to re-enter the equity markets,” said  Shane Edwards , head of equity structuring at UBS AG in London. “The
shift is already under way.”  Credit-linked notes accounted for the smallest portion of
structured notes sold outside the U.S. in four months in
January, according to Bloomberg data that exclude securities
where the amount of principal returned can vary. Banks sold
$3.69 billion of the securities, or 50 percent of the total,
down from 71 percent in December.  Investor enthusiasm for bonds cooled last month with flows
into debt funds totaling $21.3 billion, less than two-fifths the
$57.8 billion that poured into stock funds, according to EPFR
Global data. Last year an unprecedented $493.5 billion flowed
into bonds globally.  Investment-grade bonds around the world declined 1.14
percent, the most since November 2011 when they lost 1.9
percent, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Global
Corporate Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  