-- EU Leaders Battle Over Budget With Cameron Demanding Cuts
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2013-02-08T03:58:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/eu-leaders-battle-over-budget-with-cameron-at-center-of-fight.html
European Union leaders sparred into
the night over the bloc’s next seven-year budget, with calls by
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  for spending cuts at the
center of a welter of competing national demands.  Spurred by an anti-EU faction at home, Cameron insisted on
cuts in a proposed seven-year subsidies package of 973 billion
euros ($1.3 trillion). The blueprint was trimmed once, from
1.047 trillion euros in November, and is less than the 994
billion euros spent in the budget period expiring this year.  “The numbers that were put forward were much too high,”
Cameron told reporters on his way into the two-day Brussels
summit yesterday afternoon. “They need to come down, and if
they don’t come down, there won’t be a deal.”  The euro-area debt crisis leaves less money for the EU-wide
budget, in talks haunted by echoes of the financial nationalism
of France’s  Charles De Gaulle  in the 1960s and Britain’s
 Margaret Thatcher  in the 1980s. A summit deadlock over the
2014-2020 budget would hobble subsidy programs, force the EU to
fall back to annual budget extensions and add to concerns about
Europe’s political cohesion that have been inflamed by the
financial turmoil.  Predictions abounded that the talks could drag into the
weekend, in a 27-nation replay of the tensions that have marred
efforts to cope with the fiscal crisis in the 17-nation euro
zone. A stalemate “wouldn’t send a good signal to the outside
world,” Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  said.  ‘A Toothbrush’  Lithuanian President  Dalia Grybauskaite  told reporters
about 4:30 a.m. that the talks look “quite difficult still,
because for the first time really we do see the chances for a
real budget cut.”  Asked if she’s optimistic a deal can be reached as the
talks stretch into the night, Grybauskaite said: “The main
problem is I never thought I will need a toothbrush.”  Whether spending pledges are brought down to 960 billion
euros, a figure floated late yesterday, or go even lower, the
budget’s overall economic impact will be limited. It will equal
about 1 percent of EU-wide gross domestic product, compared to
the average of 50 percent that each government spends at home.  Cameron is already sure to win the first-ever real-terms
cut in EU spending, a demand he has made virtually non-
negotiable as he bows to anti-EU voices in his Conservative
party. The question is the depth of the cuts and whether they
find the consent of poorer countries and the European
Parliament.  Merkel’s View  Chancellor  Angela Merkel  of Germany, the biggest
contributor to the budget in absolute terms, said the most
important thing is to leave Brussels with a deal. She positioned
herself as a mediator between rich and poor, pledging to “work
hard” to bridge views that are “still far apart.”  Leaders of weaker economies in southern and eastern Europe
sought to stave off reductions. Wealthier countries that provide
the financing -- including the U.K., Germany, the Netherlands,
Denmark, Sweden and Finland -- pressed for EU-level austerity.  France, which also pays in more than it gets out, was
caught in the middle. President  Francois Hollande  assented to
further savings as long as they don’t come from the farming
budget, a mainly French perk since the early days of the EU.  Subsidy Programs  “I realize the need to economize, but we don’t want to
weaken the economy,” Hollande said. “It’s possible to have an
accord. If some aren’t being reasonable, I’ll try to reason with
them, but only up to a certain point.”  All governments have to sign off on the budget, giving
leverage to countries on both sides of the European economic
divide. Prime Minister  Petr Necas  of the Czech Republic, one of
16 net recipients of EU funds, threatened to veto any package
that isn’t “fair.”  A breakdown might play to the recipients’ advantage. A
failure to complete the package in time for subsidy programs to
start up in 2014 would lead to the rollover of the 2013 budget,
the biggest in EU history.  EU President  Herman Van Rompuy  called for new money to
combat youth unemployment, without saying how much or where it
would come from. Southern countries battling the debt crisis
such as Spain, with a youth jobless rate of 55.6 percent, would
be the main beneficiaries.  U.K. Voters  Spending on cross-border transport, energy and research
projects was chopped in a first round of talks in November, when
money was shuffled back into farming to placate France and to
regional development to accommodate poorer economies. In the
process, only 31 billion euros was left from the European
Commission’s call for spending of 40 billion euros on
international transport, energy and digital networks -- promoted
as a driver of future  growth .  Leaders as ideologically diverse as Hollande and Cameron
connived to wield that knife. Cameron has less room for
concessions after vowing to let U.K. voters decide whether to
stay in the EU, assuming they re-elect him in 2015.  Cameron’s lodestar is Thatcher, who won a permanent annual
rebate in 1984 to offset the U.K.’s small share of farm aid.
Germany, the Netherlands and Sweden have since been granted
temporary rebates, and Denmark wants a money-back guarantee as
well, sowing divisions among the net payers. In turn, France
wants a cap on its contribution to the U.K.’s refund, and Italy
-- the biggest net payer in 2011 relative to economic size --
wants a better deal too.  EU Bureaucracy  At the November summit, the political contortions
culminated with Cameron consenting to the restoration of some
farm aid so he could take aim at another target: the salaries
and pensions of the EU bureaucracy’s 55,000 employees, which
make up 6.4 percent of the total budget.  Any deal will require the assent of the EU Parliament,
which gained greater powers over spending in a 2009 overhaul of
EU treaties. The parliament’s president,  Martin Schulz , a German
Social Democrat, said a veto is a distinct possibility.  “The more you set priorities like today, the greater the
probability of a no in the European Parliament,” Schulz told
reporters. The parliament’s vote later this year will probably
be by secret ballot, making its members less likely to succumb
to pressure from national capitals, he said.  Schulz said an agreement is made trickier by quirks in EU
accounting that distill the budget into two sets of numbers, one
for spending commitments, the other for what is actually spent.
Commitments that aren’t backed up by transfers from national
capitals would throw the EU into deficit.  “I won’t sign a deficit budget,” Schulz said. “Europe,
like the U.S. a few weeks ago, is heading for a  fiscal cliff .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Brussels at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  