-- EU Swaps, Nasdaq-Facebook, Ex-Amaranth Trader: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-02-08T13:31:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/eu-swaps-nasdaq-facebook-ipo-ex-amaranth-trader-compliance.html
Energy and technology companies are
among non-financial firms granted a three-year reprieve from
parts of European Union rules on over-the-counter derivatives,
under a compromise deal backed by lawmakers yesterday.  The  European Parliament  lifted a veto threat after
regulators promised to phase in a requirement to route trades
through clearinghouses that lawmakers deemed too burdensome for
businesses that use swaps for hedging rather than to bet on
financial markets.  Global regulators are seeking to toughen rules for the $639
trillion market for OTC derivatives, which became a target for
oversight after the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. and the rescue of  American International Group Inc. , two of
the largest traders in credit default swaps.  The EU technical measures flesh out parts of a law to
regulate trading in OTC derivatives that the EU adopted in 2012.
The rules have already survived scrutiny by governments, meaning
the parliamentary process was the last legal hurdle before they
could enter into force.  Parts of the technical standards that aren’t subject to the
three-year phase-in period are set to take effect “around mid-
March,” Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial services chief, said
in an e-mailed statement.  Barnier said that he would discuss possible clashes between
swaps rules in meetings next week with U.S. regulators.  Compliance Policy  Banks May Have to Join Libor-Euribor Panels to Stop Exodus  Europe’s top financial regulator said he’s considering
forcing  banks  to participate in setting Libor and Euribor rates
after lenders including  Citigroup Inc . and HSBC Holdings Plc
pulled out of some panels amid the rigging scandal.  Regulators will draw up a list of lenders that should be
forced to participate in the setting of interbank rates “in
view of their involvement” in those markets, Michel Barnier,
the EU’s financial services chief, said in an e-mailed statement
today.  “Any banks considering withdrawing from the contributing
panels should therefore take into account that they may be
required to rejoin,” Barnier said. The plans to force banks to
submit data for rate setting will be included in draft
legislation on benchmark setting that the European Commission
will present in the first half of this year.  Euribor-EBF, the group that administers the setting of
Euribor rates warned last month that it may face an exodus of
banks from its rate-setting panel. Since July, as many as 10
banks have dropped out of the setting of the Eurepo Index, which
is also managed by Euribor-EBF. These lenders include Societe
Generale SA, UBS AG and HSBC. Euribor is derived from a daily
survey of interbank lending rates conducted for Euribor-EBF by
Thomson Reuters Corp.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Nasdaq Moving to Resolve Facebook IPO Mishap Amid SEC Talks  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  is moving to put its role in  Facebook
Inc. ’s botched public debut behind it as talks with federal
regulators progress and the firm awaits a decision on a
settlement with brokers.  The second-biggest U.S. exchange operator and Securities
and Exchange Commission officials are examining Nasdaq Stock
Market’s technology controls in discussions spurred by the
botched initial public offering, according to a person with
knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named because the
talks are private. Nasdaq and the SEC are in preliminary
negotiations toward a settlement that may include a $5 million
fine, the Wall Street Journal reported Feb. 6.  The SEC is still gathering information from Nasdaq, the
person said. The exchange operator mishandled Facebook’s IPO on
May 18 when its auction to set the first traded price for the
shares failed after its systems were overwhelmed.  “We’re working closely with the SEC to resolve the issues
that arose from the events on May 18,” Joseph Christinat, a
spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, said in a statement. “We continue to
believe we acted appropriately and in the best interest of
investors under challenging circumstances and we have
volunteered an accommodation plan supported by many members.”  John Nester, an SEC spokesman, declined to comment on
discussions between the agency and Nasdaq.  The New York regional office of the SEC’s division of
enforcement is conducting an investigation of Nasdaq related to
the  Facebook  IPO, the company said in a regulatory filing in
November. Nasdaq is cooperating with the investigation, it said.  Four brokerage firms say they lost a combined half-billion
dollars after  Nasdaq  mishandled Facebook’s offering on May 18.  The SEC’s deadline to review the payout plan is March 29.  RBS Blocked $8.8 Million Bonus for CDO Trader in Lawsuit  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s former head trader for
collateralized debt obligations lost out on about 5.6 million
pounds ($8.8 million) in bonuses when he was fired for
manipulating the price of securities, according to documents at
a London employment tribunal.  Alex Mallinson, who is suing for unfair dismissal, said the
lender withheld deferred cash and share awards after finding him
guilty of gross misconduct. Edinburgh-based RBS “unfairly
terminated my employment in order to make an example of me,” he
said in written evidence made available yesterday.  RBS employees noticed Mallinson had sold bonds and then
bought them back for slightly more the same day, a practice
called a “wash trade,” bank compliance officer Sarah Goodsell
said in a witness statement released earlier this week.  “It seemed the sole purpose” of the first “trade had
been an attempt to manipulate the market and to reduce the
market price of a particular bond,” she said.  RBS was fined about $612 million Feb. 6 by regulators who
found the bank had tried to rig interest rates. The U.K.
Financial Services Authority said RBS colluded with other banks
setting the London interbank offered rate, including another
derivatives trader, who wasn’t identified, entering into wash
trades to make corrupt payments to a broker.  Mallinson’s case isn’t connected to the Libor probe. His
lawyer, Danielle Spiers, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails
seeking comment.  “Alex Mallinson was dismissed for gross misconduct and the
bank does not accept there is substance to his claim and will
defend it,” RBS spokeswoman Rebecca Nelson said in an e-mailed
statement.  Mallinson argued in his evidence that the trades had been
to reduce the administrative burden on his colleagues to comply
with internal pricing systems, not attempted market abuse.  For more, click here.  Swatch to Stick With Swiss Accounting Decision Amid SMI Doubt  Swatch Group AG  said it will stand by its decision to
switch to Swiss accounting standards even if exchange regulators
make the use of international accounting a requirement for
inclusion in the Swiss Market Index.  Comments attributed to Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek
yesterday by  Finanz & Wirtschaft  newspaper are accurate, Swatch
spokeswoman Beatrice Howald said by phone. The CEO was cited as
saying that the Biel, Switzerland-based watchmaker won’t change
its stance, whether that means it drops out of the SMI or not.  Swatch said in October it would switch back this year to
Swiss GAAP ARR accounting from international financial reporting
standards. The company said the Swiss standard would be “more
practical and less theoretical.” Hayek said in a September
interview with Finanz & Wirtschaft that “over regulation”
under IFRS was becoming a “catastrophe.”  Alain Bichsel, a spokesman for SIX Exchange Regulation,
said the background for suggesting stricter rules for SMI-listed
companies was that the Swiss GAAP ARR accounting standard was
originally meant for small- to mid-sized companies to provide
them with an easier procedure.  Bichsel said no decisions have yet been made and Swatch is
the only company that would be affected by the new rules.  Moody’s, S&P Said to Be Probed by New York Over 2008 Accord  Moody’s Investors Service , Standard & Poor’s and Fitch
Ratings are being investigated by New York Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman over whether they breached a 2008 settlement with
the state, a person familiar with the matter said.  The 2008 deal with then Attorney General Andrew Cuomo
required them to change the way they were paid to rate mortgage-
backed securities and to disclose more about their process.  The probe is looking into whether they have complied with
the agreement, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly about it and asked not to be identified.  The U.S. Justice Department and state attorneys general
this week sued S&P, accusing the company of inflating ratings on
mortgage-backed securities during the housing bubble. New York
wasn’t one of the states that sued.  Michael Adler, a Moody’s spokesman, and Dan Noonan, a Fitch
spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to e-mails yesterday after
regular business hours seeking comment about the New York probe.  Catherine Mathis, a spokeswoman for  McGraw-Hill Cos .’ S&P
unit, declined to comment on the probe.  New York’s investigation was reported yesterday by the Wall
Street Journal.  Courts  Ex-Amaranth Trader, CFTC Asks Court to Toss $30 Million Fine  A former natural-gas trader at Amaranth Advisors LLC,
backed by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, asked a
federal appeals court to overturn a $30 million fine imposed by
another regulator over alleged manipulation of the gas-futures
market.  In a case that could determine the limits of the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission’s power to punish market
manipulation, a lawyer for Brian Hunter told a three-judge panel
in Washington yesterday that the CFTC has sole jurisdiction over
futures trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The CFTC,
which filed papers supporting Hunter, also argued yesterday.  Hunter’s lawyer, Michael Kim of  Kobre & Kim LLP , said
during the 40-minute argument, that there was no notice, “much
less fair notice,” to Brian Hunter that his conduct was being
regulated by FERC. Hunter claims his actions didn’t amount to
market manipulation.  The dispute highlights FERC’s growing role as a regulatory
enforcer. The Hunter case addresses questions including what
determines market manipulation and which agency, the CFTC or
FERC, has jurisdiction over violations involving futures
trading, Marc Spitzer, a former FERC commissioner, said in an
interview.  FERC argues that the CFTC’s exclusive jurisdiction over
regulating futures contracts and futures markets doesn’t extend
to manipulation.  Mary Connelly, a lawyer for the CFTC, told the judges
yesterday that Congress never repealed her agency’s exclusive
jurisdiction when it added regulatory authority to FERC.  For more, click here.  Two Former Mercury Interactive Executives Settle SEC Suit  Two former executives of  Hewlett-Packard Co .’s Mercury
Interactive unit settled a lawsuit with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission over allegations of backdating company stock
options.  The SEC reached agreements with former Chief Executive
Officer Amnon Landan and former Chief Financial Officer Douglas
Smith after the two men and a third former official, ex-general
counsel Susan Skaer, appeared yesterday for a hearing on the
case before U.S. District Judge William Alsup in San Francisco.  The settlement was confirmed by Michael Torpey, a lawyer
for Skaer, whose case isn’t settled, he said. An electronic
court docket entry also listed the settlements, without
providing any details on the terms.  The former executives argued that the SEC allegations are
too old and their actions weren’t improper. The SEC had
requested that the judge decide the case in its favor without a
trial.  The agency has pursued the five-year-old lawsuit against
Landan, Smith and Skaer over changing dates on stock options to
make them more valuable, a practice among many technology
companies that led to a federal investigation, the ousters of 90
executives and directors, billions of dollars in restatements
and criminal charges against executives at 10 companies.  Alsup said in court yesterday that settlement talks were
set for immediately after the hearing and told attorneys that
“I am going to issue an order in the next few days. If you are
going to preempt that with a settlement, do it quickly.”  Stephan Schlegelmilch, an SEC lawyer, said the staff’s
recommendation for settlements must still be approved by the
commission.  “We cannot comment on any settlement, but any settlements
will be made public if approved by the commission,” he said in
an e-mail.  K.C. Maxwell, a lawyer for Landan, also declined to
comment.  SEC attorneys say more than 40 stock option grants at
Mercury Interactive were backdated from 1997 to 2002, and $258
million in compensation expenses weren’t reported to investors
as a result, according to court documents. Landan, Skaer and
Smith were all involved in the practice, the SEC said.  Backdating grants to days when share prices were low
inflates their value and may hide costs from investors if left
undisclosed. Mercury Interactive paid $28 million in 2007 to
settle a related SEC lawsuit and three former company directors
and a former chief financial officer settled SEC lawsuits over
the practice.  The executives said the company was open about backdating,
the SEC waited too long to sue and the agency lacks evidence
that they violated securities or accounting rules.  The case is SEC v. Landan, 07-2822, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  K1 Hedge Fund Founder Kiener Indicted in $311 Million Fraud  K1 Group founder  Helmut Kiener , who was convicted in
Germany of defrauding investors in a Ponzi scheme, was indicted
by the U.S. for his role in a $311 million fraud, the U.S.
attorney in Philadelphia said.  Kiener, a German national, was charged yesterday with four
counts of wire fraud, two counts of bank fraud and three counts
of money laundering based on allegations that he devised a
scheme to defraud  Bear Stearns Cos.  using hedge funds in the
Bahamas and the Cayman Islands. Kiener’s partner John Tausche,
61, of Blowing Rock, North Carolina, was charged with one count
of bank fraud and one count of money laundering.  Kiener, 53, was convicted in 2011 and sentenced to 10 years
and eight months in prison after confessing to using new
investors’ money to make up for losses in the wake of the
financial crisis.  K1’s funds are being liquidated in the British Virgin
Islands. Kiener’s personal assets were placed in insolvency
proceedings in Germany, where he is incarcerated.  Tausche is “cooperating with authorities,” his attorney
Joseph Grimes said.  “He’s doing everything he can to make right the harm that
was done to investors,” Grimes said in a phone interview.  If convicted, Kiener faces a maximum of 200 years in prison
and a maximum possible fine of $7.9 million. Tausche faces a
maximum of 40 years in prison and a fine of $1.9 million.  The case is U.S. v. Kiener, 13-00062, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  Comings and Goings  House Democrats Obama Urged to Replace Fannie Mae Regulator  A group of House Democrats is urging President Barack Obama
to nominate a permanent director for the Federal Housing Finance
Agency to replace an acting chief they say is standing in the
way of aid for struggling borrowers.  The 45 lawmakers led by Representative Elijah Cummings of
Maryland, the top Democrat on the House Oversight and Government
Reform Committee, said in a letter to Obama that FHFA Acting
Director Edward J. DeMarco should be removed because of his
refusal to use U.S.-owned mortgage firms  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie
Mac  to provide loan modifications including principal reduction.  The letter reflects a renewed effort by Democratic
lawmakers and consumer advocates to get Obama to replace
DeMarco, a career civil servant who inherited the job of
overseeing Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac in 2009. Senate
Republicans in 2011 blocked Obama’s nominee for the post, former
North Carolina banking regulator Joseph Smith.  The White House has been actively seeking potential
candidates for the job in recent months.  Potential nominees for the FHA post could include
administration officials such as Michael Stegman, the Treasury
Department’s housing adviser, or academics such as Harvard
University professor Nicolas Retsinas, former director of the
school’s Joint Center for Housing Studies.  Denise Dunckel, an FHFA spokeswoman, said she had no
comment on the letter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Carla Main  in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 