-- European Stocks Post Weekly Drop on Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-02-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/european-stocks-post-weekly-drop-on-debt-crisis-concern.html
European stocks  posted a second
weekly decline as political uncertainty in Italy and Spain
revived concern that the nations’ austerity programs may falter
and the euro-area debt crisis may deepen.  UniCredit SpA , Italy’s biggest lender, dropped 5.4 percent
as a gauge of European bank shares fell for a second week. Royal
Imtech NV plunged 47 percent as the Dutch technical-service
provider predicted writedowns exceeding 100 million euros
($136 million) in Poland. Hargreaves Lansdown Plc jumped 15
percent after the retail stockbroker posted first-half profit
that exceeded analysts’ estimates.  The benchmark  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  lost 0.3 percent to
287.34 this past week. The gauge has still advanced 2.7 percent
so far this year as U.S. lawmakers agreed on a tax-increase
deal, delayed spending cuts and avoided a fiscal deadlock that
threatened to push the world’s largest economy into a recession.  “The return of uncertainty relating to the euro zone has
contributed to increased volatility in European equities and a
very weak performance of sectors,”  Jeremy Batstone-Carr , head
of research at Charles Stanley Group Plc in London, said.
“Banks are hugely vulnerable to a still very fragile banking
system which is likely to be put under only more pressure if
bond yields keep rising, which they are likely to.”  The VStoxx Index, which measures the expected volatility in
the region through Euro Stoxx 50 Index options prices, surged 16
percent this week. The average  daily volume of shares  trading on
companies in the Stoxx 600 was 14 percent higher than the mean
of the last 12 months.  Italian Elections  An opinion survey in Italy showed the anti-austerity
campaign of  Silvio Berlusconi  has boosted the former premier’s
popularity before this month’s elections. Berlusconi narrowed
the lead of front-runner Pier Luigi Bersani to less than the
margin of error in the poll by Tecne institute for SkyTG24.  Berlusconi has gained in popularity before the Feb. 24-25
elections as he promised to cut taxes and end a levy on first
homes implemented by Prime Minister Mario Monti’s government.
Monti has accused Berlusconi of trying to buy votes.  “The expectation is that Berlusconi will roll back on the
progress that the center left has made towards reform in the
Italian economy,” Batstone-Carr said.  The yield on the benchmark Italian bond advanced 24 basis
points, while the FTSE MIB Index plunged 4.1 percent, the
biggest weekly loss since September.  Spanish Allegations  Spain is in a turmoil over reports by the newspaper El Pais
that Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  received more than €277,000
($375,000) from a secret fund run by the former treasurer of his
People’s Party. Rajoy said on Feb. 2 that he was the victim of a
smear campaign.  A poll published by El Pais on Feb. 3 showed the backing
for his party fell to 23.9 percent. Seventy-seven percent said
they disapproved of Rajoy as the head of government and 54
percent said a general election should be called.  The yield on Spain’s  10-year benchmark bond  rose 16 basis
points this week. The IBEX 35 Index fell 0.8 percent.  Investors watched central-bank decisions this week for
clues on policy makers’ response to the economic slump in the
euro area. The European Central Bank and the Bank of England
left their interest rates and stimulus measures unchanged.  In Italy, UniCredit tumbled 5.4 percent. Intesa Sanpaolo
SpA, the nation’s second-biggest bank, retreated 4.1 percent. A
gauge of  European bank stocks  lost 0.3 percent.  Imtech Writedowns  Royal Imtech dropped 47 percent, for the deepest slump in
at least 23 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company said it has been affected by a lack of financing for its
largest customer in Poland and possible irregularities in
Imtech’s projects in that country.  Vinci SA  slid 6.5 percent. Europe’s biggest builder
reported a drop in 2012 profitability amid falling sales in
markets such as Poland and said business will stagnate this year
because of the economic slump.  Sanofi retreated 4.2 percent as the Paris-based drugmaker
said profit may drop as much as 5 percent this year as generic
competition to the Plavix blood thinner hurts sales and the
company incurs costs for introducing new products.  Royal KPN NV tumbled 23 percent. The Dutch carrier partly
owned by Carlos Slim’s America Movil SAB had a fourth-quarter
net loss of 162 million euros compared with a profit of 176
million euros a year earlier. The company also plans a $5.4
billion share sale.  Hargreaves Lansdown  Hargreaves Lansdown  jumped 15 percent after reporting
first-half pretax profit and revenue that beat analysts’
estimates and a 42 percent jump in net inflows to 1.65 billion
pounds ($2.6 billion). The company also increased its dividend
by 24 percent.  Bwin.Party Digital Entertainment Plc rallied 19 percent.
British betting companies climbed after New Jersey Governor
Chris Christie, who vetoed Internet gambling in 2011, said he
would allow a 10-year trial period of online betting for games
conducted in Atlantic City casinos.  Eurasian Natural Resources Corp., a Kazakh metals producer,
climbed 12 percent after announcing that ferroalloy and iron ore
production rose in the fourth quarter.  Givaudan SA  gained 6.4 percent. The world’s largest maker
of flavorings and fragrances announced a dividend of 36 francs a
share, beating a Bloomberg analyst forecast of 25 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  