-- Ex-Hypo Alpe CEO Sentenced to 30 Months in Jail Over Fund Misuse
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2013-02-08T15:47:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ex-hypo-alpe-ceo-sentenced-to-30-months-in-jail-over-fund-misuse.html
Wolfgang Kulterer , the former head of
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International AG, was sentenced to two-and-
a-half years in prison by an Austrian court after he was found
guilty of approving bad loans before the lender’s near-collapse.  The court in Klagenfurt, Austria, ruled that Kulterer and
another executive acted improperly when they agreed to lend 2
million euros ($2.7 million) to a regional airline that later
went bankrupt, said Bernd Lutschounig, the court spokesman. The
other banker received a two-year sentence.  Austria nationalized Hypo Alpe in 2009 to avert its
collapse after losses piled up and its then majority owner,
Germany’s  Bayerische Landesbank , pulled its support. The
government installed a task force of lawyers, police,
prosecutors and central bank auditors to find out who was
responsible for the losses that forced the bailout.  “The court found that the accused knowingly misused their
authority and knowingly caused the damage to the bank,”
Lutschounig said in a telephone interview.  The bankers’ lawyers, who had pleaded not guilty in court,
appealed the verdict immediately, Lutschounig said. Kulterer’s
lawyer, Ferdinand Lanker, wasn’t immediately available to
comment.  The ruling came after Austria’s highest court overturned an
earlier acquittal by a different Klagenfurt judge and ordered a
retrial. Kulterer was convicted in May of misuse of funds in a
separate case, where an appeal is pending.  Carinthia Politician  When Kulterer was in charge, Hypo Alpe was controlled by
the southern Austrian province of Carinthia, then governed by
the late populist politician  Joerg Haider . Haider had asked that
the bank make the disputed airline loans, Kulterer said during
the proceedings.  Carinthia sold a majority stake in Hypo Alpe to BayernLB in
2007. Austria nationalized Hypo Alpe in 2009 when BayernLB
pulled its support. The investment in Hypo led to writedowns at
BayernLB of about 3.7 billion euros, and the bailout has cost
Austrian taxpayers 1.85 billion euros so far.  Hypo Alpe’s near collapse has led to several legal battles.
BayernLB is suing a former Hypo Alpe shareholder for duping it
into its purchase of the bank. Austrian prosecutors have charged
Kulterer and others with misuse of funds, false accounting and
other crimes in several other cases. Hypo Alpe in December said
it wouldn’t repay loans from BayernLB.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  