-- Mexico Bonds Drop as Cut Speculation Ebbs; Peso Little Changed
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-02-08T23:31:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/mexico-peso-bonds-drop-as-rate-cut-speculation-ebbs-peso-rises.html
Mexico’s peso bonds fell, driving
yields to a one-week high, on reduced speculation that central
bank Governor  Agustin Carstens  will lower borrowing costs next
month for the first time in his three-year tenure.  Yields on peso bonds due in 2024 rose two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 5.17 percent at 4 p.m. in Mexico City,
the highest level on a closing basis since Jan. 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yields have risen four basis
points since Feb. 1 in their first weekly increase since Jan. 4.
The currency was little changed at 12.7239 per U.S. dollar, with
a loss on the week of 0.9 percent.  Local currency bonds extended a drop that began yesterday
after a government report showed inflation exceeded forecasts,
damping speculation that Carstens would reduce the 4.5 percent
target lending rate.  “The market pushed up a lot their expectations for a
possible rate decrease to come soon from the Banco de Mexico,”
 Gerardo Welsh , a bond trader at Banco Base SA, said in a
telephone interview from San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico. “The
worse-than-expected inflation data caused the market to
reconsider this.”  Speculation that the central bank will cut borrowing costs
in response to slowing inflation pushed the  yield gap  between
U.S. Treasuries and Mexican fixed-rate bonds maturing in 10
years to a five-year low of 302 basis points on Feb. 5. Policy
makers said at their meeting last month that they may ease
monetary policy should inflation continue to slow.  Board members were unanimous in their decision to leave
rates at a record low 4.5 percent for a 32nd straight time,
according to minutes published Feb. 1.  Annual inflation slowed less than forecast to 3.25 percent
in January from 3.57 percent in December, the national
statistics institute said yesterday on its website. The median
projection of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 3.17
percent yearly pace.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  