-- Florida Orange Crop Estimate Cut 0.7% as Disease Shrivels Fruit
-- B y   Y i   T i a n
-- 2013-02-08T17:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/florida-orange-crop-estimate-cut-0-7-as-disease-shrivels-fruit.html
Florida’s  orange  crop, the
world’s second biggest, will be 0.7 percent smaller than
forecast in January, the U.S. government said, as early
blooming and a plant disease cause fruit to shrivel and
drop from trees.  The state will produce 141 million boxes of the fruit
in the harvest that runs from October through June, down
from 142 million forecast a month ago, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said today in a report. The average estimate
of eight analysts and traders in a Bloomberg News survey
was 140.5 million boxes. Florida produced 146.6 million
boxes in the previous season.  “The answer for the rapid fruit drop continues to be
a warmer-than-normal season” and the plant disease known
as citrus greening, Jerry Neff, a branch manager at
Allendale Inc. in Bradenton, Florida, said in an e-mail
before the report.  Temperatures were 5 to 7 degrees Fahrenheit above normal
across the Citrus Belt in January, Donald Keeney, a senior
meteorologist at MDA Information Systems Inc. in Gaithersburg,
Maryland, said yesterday in an e-mail. Trees are blooming about
one month early, meaning there will be less juice and more
dropped fruit, said Dean Mixon, the president of Mixon Fruit
Farms Inc., a grower in Bradenton, Florida.  Citrus greening, a bacterial disease first found in
the state in 2005, starves a tree of nutrients, causing the
fruit to drop prematurely. Oranges are often smaller,
especially in younger trees.  Orange juice plunged 38 percent in the past year
through yesterday amid slowing U.S. demand and rising
supplies. The March contract rose 0.7 percent to $1.22 a
pound at 9:23 a.m. today on ICE Futures U.S. in New York.  Yields in Florida will average 1.62 gallons per box,
down from 1.63 gallons a year earlier, the USDA said.  A box weighs 90 pounds, or 41 kilograms. Brazil is the
biggest orange producer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  