-- Food Producers Given Week to Test Beef Products for Horse
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2013-02-08T13:45:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/food-producers-given-week-to-test-for-horse-meat-by-u-k-agency.html
The U.K. Food Standards Agency  gave
food makers a week to test all their beef products after a range
of lasagnes produced by Findus Group Ltd. was found to contain
more than 60 percent horse meat.  The agency also said it involved the police in the U.K. and
Europe as evidence of horse meat in burgers and lasagne “points
to either gross negligence or deliberate contamination in the
food chain,” according to a  statement  on its website today.  U.K. supermarkets including  Tesco Plc , Wal-Mart Stores
Inc.’s Asda and Aldi have removed some ranges of frozen beef
burgers from their shelves in the past month as concern has
escalated over tainted meat. Tesco last week dropped one of its
suppliers after the discovery of horse DNA in some products.  The government body set a deadline of Feb. 15 for food
producers to test for horse meat and report back with results,
according to a  statement  on its website last night.  The FSA “is now requiring a more robust response from the
food industry in order to demonstrate that the food it sells and
serves is what it says it is on the label,” Chief Executive
Officer  Catherine Brown  said in the statement. “We are
demanding that food businesses conduct authenticity tests on all
beef products, such as beef burgers, meatballs and lasagne, and
provide the results to the FSA.”  Tesco Response  For now, the FSA doesn’t intend to widen the scope of the
testing and the agency will await the results, a spokesman said.
A Findus spokesman couldn’t immediately comment when contacted
by phone by Bloomberg News.  “This issue is probably going to run all year,” said
 Bryan Roberts , an analyst at Kantar Retail in London. “The big
question is obviously now that we don’t know what else we don’t
know. For the retailers, the challenge may be that some shoppers
will become more aware of providence and that cheap comes at a
price.”  As well as removing Findus beef lasagne, Tesco withdrew its
own-brand Everyday Value Spaghetti Bolognese, which was produced
at the same site as the Findus product by French food company
Comigel, a Tesco spokeswoman said.  Tesco announced on Jan. 30 that it would test the DNA of
all meat products to avoid deviation from its standards.  Nobody was immediately available at Comigel when it was
phoned by Bloomberg News.  ABP Food Group, the company whose Silvercrest Foods unit
was at the centre of the initial discovery of horse meat, said
Jan. 16 it would conduct its own DNA tests on “a wide number of
samples.” A spokeswoman for the company said today that for now
she couldn’t go beyond that statement.  Prime Minister David Cameron is “aware of the very
distasteful issue,” his spokeswoman,  Vickie Sheriff , told
reporters in London today. “There’s nothing to suggest any
health risk. All the incidents that have come to light are acts
of criminality which seem to have happened overseas.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  