-- Georgian President Calls for Parties to Ease Political Tension
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2013-02-08T18:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/georgian-president-calls-for-parties-to-ease-political-tension.html
Georgian President  Mikheil Saakashvili  called on the country’s political parties to work
together and pursue the goals of European Union and NATO entry
after protesters forced a change in venue for his state-of-the-
nation address.  Tension is rising between the U.S.-backed president and
Prime Minister  Bidzina Ivanishvili , who scored an upset over his
party in October parliamentary elections. Saakashvili, who
delivered his last address before a presidential vote in
October, had to leave the National Library and deliver his
speech from the presidential palace after protesters stormed the
building in the capital, Tbilisi.  Georgia, which borders Russia, Armenia, Turkey and
Azerbaijan, hosts the  BP Plc -managed Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan and the
Baku-Supsa oil pipelines, as well as the Baku-Tbilisi-Erzurum
gas link. The government has been stung by warnings from the EU
and U.S. over arrests of former officials since the elections.  “The very moment we slow down our European and Euro-
Atlantic integration, our independence and our sovereignty will
be hungrily swallowed by a former empire that has an
unmistakable tendency to misunderstand the concept of borders,”
the 45-year-old U.S. trained lawyer said, referring to the
country’s rule under the Soviet Union.  Medvedev Meeting  Ivanishvili , a billionaire who made his fortune in banking
and metals in Russia, met Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  briefly
at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland last month and
has pledged to work on improving relations and boosting
investment between the two countries. Russia and Georgia fought
a five-day war over the breakaway region of South Ossetia in
August 2008.  Lawmakers allied with Ivanishvili yesterday prevented
Saakashvili from giving his address in parliament as retaliation
for his party not supporting constitutional changes that would
remove the president’s right to fire the Cabinet. Saakashvili
said today that he never intended to use that power and warned
that the government may change the rules of presidential
elections.  Parliament, based in Kutaisi, 230 kilometers (143 miles)
west of Tbilisi, in December approved legislation freeing 3,000
prisoners and reducing the sentences for thousands of other
inmates starting last month.  ‘Collective House’  Some of the protesters were former “political prisoners”
jailed by the previous administration led by Saakashvili’s
United National Movement party, while others were government
supporters, the television station Rustavi 2 reported. Tbilisi’s
mayor, Gigi Ugulava, a Saakashvili ally, was attacked by
protesters and sustained minor injuries, according to lawmaker
Chiora Taktakishvili.  In calling for politicians to put aside their differences,
Saakashvili said it’s “time for the winners of the elections to
build a new floor in our collective house, rather than
undermining its basement.”  Since the new government took power, at least 38 former
officials tied to the previous administration have been charged
with offenses such as illegal wire-tapping and abuse of office
from actions taken before the elections.  “Our democracy and our constitution do not require us to
be friends or allies,” he said. “But they require us to
cohabit, to cooperate for the sake of our national project and
for the good of our people.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  