-- Spanish Bonds for Gain Second Day on ECB Policy Bets
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-08T16:37:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/germany-s-bonds-are-little-changed-after-export-data.html
Spain’s government bonds rose for a
second day as European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s
commitment to maintain stimulus boosted demand for higher-
yielding assets.  Ireland’s  five-year yields  dropped to the lowest since 2005
as the nation reached an accord with the ECB to ease its funding
needs over the next decade. Euro-area monetary policy may
“remain accommodative,” Draghi said after the central bank’s
monthly meeting yesterday. Italy’s bonds posted a second weekly
decline as former Premier  Silvio Berlusconi , who opposes the
current government’s reforms, narrowed the lead of front-runner
 Pier Luigi Bersani  before elections this month.  “Everything is supported by the reassurance that Draghi
gave the market that liquidity isn’t going to suddenly drain
out,” said  Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit
Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “The extra
bonus for the periphery is the Irish deal. It shows that the ECB
is still very supportive of peripheral countries and is looking
to help those that are doing the right thing.”  Spain’s 10-year yield fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 5.36 percent at 4:36 p.m. London time after
declining three basis points yesterday. The 5.4 percent bond due
January 2023 rose 0.41, or 4.10 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,337)
face amount, to 100.27. The  two-year yield  dropped eight basis
points to 2.73 percent.  ‘Better Value’  Pacific Investment Management Co. plans to hold on to
shorter-maturity Spanish notes and take advantage of higher
yields on the securities relative to some euro-area peers.  “Just compare the yield curves of Spain to Ireland,”
Pimco’s Munich-based Managing Director  Andrew Bosomworth  said on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse” in an interview with
 Francine Lacqua  and  Guy Johnson . “Spain is about 120 basis
points above comparable Irish government bonds. I still think
there’s better value in Spain. To sit on the carry and roll down
the curve, I think that’s the strategy.”  Inflation risks in the euro region are contained, Draghi
said yesterday after ECB policy makers kept the central bank’s
main  refinancing rate  at a record-low 0.75 percent.  Spanish bonds returned 0.9 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Italian
securities gained 0.4 percent, while their German counterparts
lost 1.3 percent.  Irish Notes  Ireland’s five-year notes gained for a fourth day after the
agreement on restructuring the costs of rescuing the former
Anglo Irish Bank Corp.  Under the plan, dubbed ‘Project Red,’ Ireland will swap so-
called promissory notes used to rescue the failed lender with
long-term bonds with maturities of up to 40 years. The accord
will ease the nation’s borrowing needs over the next decade by
20 billion euros.  The nation’s five-year  yield  declined 10 basis points to
2.81 percent after dropping to 2.79 percent, the lowest level
since October 2005.  Italy’s bonds fell for a second week after a member of
Bersani’s campaign said the election in three weeks may result
in a hung parliament, requiring a follow-up vote to establish a
governing majority.  “Returning to polls is the answer in a situation of
ungovernability,” Stefano Fassina, Bersani’s head of economic
policy, wrote on Twitter yesterday.  Italian Yields  Italian  10-year yields climbed 23 basis points this week to
4.56 percent. They dropped three basis points today.  German government bonds, perceived to be among Europe’s
safest debt securities, were little changed as European Union
President Herman Van Rompuy  said leaders agreed to a seven-year
budget that cuts spending for the first time.  The deal on the EU budget was struck after 25 1/2 hours of
talks in Brussels, according to a post on Twitter by Van Rompuy
today. While he didn’t disclose a figure, the final draft
blueprint for 2014-2020 included a spending ceiling of 960
billion euros, down from an original proposal of 1.047 trillion
euros and less than the 994 billion euros spent in the current
budget cycle.  German 10-year bunds yielded 1.61 percent, poised for seven
basis-point decline this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  