-- German Exports Rose in December to Cap Trillion-Euro Year
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2013-02-08T07:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/german-exports-rose-in-december-to-cap-record-trillion-euro-year.html
German exports rose in December,
capping a record year even as the sovereign debt crisis weighed
on euro-area demand.  Exports , adjusted for working days and seasonal changes,
increased 0.3 percent from November, when they fell 2.2 percent,
the Federal Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today.
Economists forecast a 1.4 percent increase, according to the
median of 15 estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey . Exports rose
3.4 percent in 2012 to a record 1.1 trillion euros ($1.47
trillion), the office said.  Export growth has slowed as the debt crisis damps sales
within the euro area, prompting German companies to target
faster-growing markets in Asia. The economy, Europe’s largest,
is showing signs of recovering from a fourth-quarter slump as
the debt crisis eases. Investor and business confidence improved
more than forecast in January and the unemployment rate fell to
6.8 percent, matching a two-decade low.  “Strongly improved business sentiment backs our
expectations of a gradual improvement throughout the first
quarter,” said  Alexander Koch , an economist at UniCredit Group
in Munich.  Trade Balance  Imports fell 1.3 percent in December, today’s report
showed. The trade balance narrowed to 12 billion euros from 16.9
billion euros in November. At 188.1 billion euros in 2012, the
annual trade surplus was the second-highest since records began
in 1950, the statistics office said. The surplus in the current
account, a measure of all trade including services, was 17.3
billion euros, up from 16.2 billion euros in November.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  signaled
yesterday that policy makers are concerned the recent
appreciation of the euro may threaten the 17-nation economy’s
recovery later this year.  The exchange rate “is important for growth and price
stability,” Draghi said. “We want to see if the appreciation
is sustained, and if it alters our assessment of the risks to
price stability.”  The euro, which rose to a 14-month high above $1.37 earlier
this month, fell to $1.3390 today.  The ECB expects the euro-area economy to contract 0.3
percent this year while the Bundesbank predicts the German
economy will grow 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  