-- German Shale-Gas Fracking Rules Sought in Merkel Coalition Paper
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-02-08T10:48:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/german-shale-gas-fracking-rules-sought-in-merkel-coalition-paper.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition
wants to set rules aimed at easing the extraction of natural gas
by means of hydraulic fracturing, deflecting calls in some
German regions to ban the technology on environmental grounds.  So-called fracking outside of water-protection areas should
be permitted pending completion of environmental impact
assessments that take into account possible flow-backs of
fracking liquids, a paper drafted by government lawmakers in the
environment and economy working group showed.  The government, working with state leaders as well as
mining and environmental regulators, should draft rules “in the
near term for a safe development of shale gas to support a
nationwide implementation,” the lawmakers said in the paper,
obtained by Bloomberg News. The rules should outlaw fracking in
water-protection areas and protect mineral springs, they said.  Merkel’s Christian Democrat-led coalition is sparring with
the opposition Social Democrats over fracking ahead of September
federal elections. The opposition-controlled upper house passed
a resolution on Feb. 1 urging the government to ban the use of
substances that might harm the environment until all the risks
have been assessed, a demand that would block fracking for the
foreseeable future. The paper doesn’t mention such assessments.  Fracking has risen up the political agenda in Germany as
industry is forced to pay rising energy costs following Merkel’s
decision to shutter nuclear power plants and switch to renewable
energies. Gas prices in Germany are now four times those of the
U.S. because of the latter’s support for shale gas, Ulrich
Grillo, president of Germany’s BDI industry association, was
cited as saying in the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung Jan. 28.  Boosting Output  Germany sits on as much as 2.3 billion cubic meters of
shale gas, enough to boost the current output of natural gas
100-fold,  according to   Volker Steinbach , head of the natural
resources department of the Federal Institute for Geosciences
and Natural Resources.  Companies including  Exxon Mobil Corp.  have drilled test
wells into unconventional natural gas reservoirs in Germany in
an attempt to emulate the U.S. shale-gas boom. While a
successful drilling campaign would redraw the energy map across
Europe -- a continent reliant on Russia for about a quarter of
its gas -- little headway has been made in Germany, largely due
to public opposition on environmental grounds.  Merkel’s coalition defeated  motions  from the opposition
Greens and Left Party in December that called for a ban on
fracking. That sent a signal that Germany, unlike France, wants
to keep the door to national shale gas production open. The U.K.
decided to go ahead with fracking the same month. The practice
was outlawed in France in 2011 and it is also banned in
Bulgaria.  Fracking involves drilling hundreds of wells and cracking
shale rocks with a high-pressure mixture of water, sand and
chemicals, to unlock gas or oil from impermeable stone. It has
been practiced in Germany since the 1960s, and has been used at
least 275 times at conventional gas and oil wells in Lower
Saxony state, according to a study presented by the Environment
Ministry in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  