-- Germany’s Westerwelle Slaps at Cameron’s EU Single-Market Focus
-- B y   J o s e p h   d e   W e c k   a n d   J a n   D a h i n t e n
-- 2013-02-08T12:29:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/germany-s-westerwelle-slaps-at-cameron-s-eu-single-market-focus.html
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said the European Union can’t be reduced to just a
single market, hardening his opposition to U.K. Prime Minister
 David Cameron ’s call for the EU to limit its focus to trade.  Westerwelle, speaking at the International Institute for
Strategic Studies in Singapore today, said that the EU was a
“fundamentally political project” from the outset. The 27-
member bloc is the cornerstone of Germany’s post-World War II
security and prosperity, and offers the only plausible response
to a globalized economy, he said, according to the text of his
speech e-mailed by the Foreign Ministry in Berlin.  “You will witness an EU that will move in the direction of
more, not less integration, both in economic policy and foreign
policy,” Westerwelle said. “Those who look at the EU only as a
single market cannot but go wrong in their analysis.”  Cameron aims to repatriate powers to London from Brussels
and hold an in-or-out referendum on the U.K.’s EU membership by
late 2017, if he wins re-election. The Conservative leader said
in a speech last month that the single market is the EU’s
“essential foundation,” and not the euro.  Westerwelle, who said at the time that Britain can’t expect
to “cherry-pick” the pieces of the EU that it wants and reject
the rest, spelled out a very different vision for Europe in
Singapore. Having “defied the doomsayers” to keep Europe
together during the debt crisis in the 17-nation euro area,
Germany will continue to do so in the future, he said.  “For Germany, the project of European integration is not
one policy option among many,” Westerwelle said. “We know that
we need a stronger and more united Europe if we want a bright
future for our country. We will only be able to assert our
values and interests if we Europeans stand together.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph de Weck in Berlin at 
 jdeweck@bloomberg.net ;  Jan Dahinten  in Singapore at 
 jdahinten@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  