-- GM Lowers Malibu Prices to Compete With Camry in Searches
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-02-08T21:38:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/gm-lowers-malibu-prices-to-compete-with-camry-in-searches.html
General Motors Co. , in an effort to
make its Chevrolet Malibu more appealing to online car shoppers,
lowered the car’s price by hundreds of dollars to compete with
better-selling midsize sedans.  GM, based in Detroit, lowered the prices of Malibu by as
much as $770 as the automaker seeks to improve its results in a
segment that includes five of the 20 most popular vehicles in
the U.S. The average price was reduced by about $450, Russ
Clark, Malibu’s marketing director, said yesterday in an
interview on the sidelines of the Chicago Auto Show.  “We did it in order to try to generate more potential
traffic on the car both on the websites as well as dealers but I
can’t tell you that January itself was a big change just because
of that,” he said. “It recognizes the competitiveness of the
segment and ensures that we remain on the shopping list.”  The entry-level Malibu’s starting price was reduced by $345
to $21,995, which excludes an $810 freight charge, GM said in an
e-mail. The Toyota Camry, the top-selling car in the U.S.,
begins at $22,235 before a $795 handling fee, according to
 Toyota Motor Corp. ’s website. Malibu U.S. sales rose 7.8 percent
in January while the Camry increased 13 percent, according to
researcher Autodata Corp.  Speedy Refresh  GM engineers and designers also are working on speedy
design changes to the Malibu, including making the back seat
feel roomier, two people familiar with the effort have said.
Those changes should be introduced in third quarter, said the
people, who asked not to be identified revealing private plans.  The battle for midsize car sales in the U.S. is one of the
bigger fronts in the three-way fight among GM, Toyota and
Volkswagen AG for global sales leadership.  Toyota, helped by a strong recovery following production
problems in 2011 tied to natural disasters, overtook GM last
year to again become the best-selling automaker in the world. GM
finished No. 2, outselling VW by more than 130,000 deliveries.
The Wolfsburg, Germany-based automaker aims to become the
world’s biggest by 2018.  GM rose 0.4 percent to $28.57 today in New York. The shares
slipped 0.9 percent so far this year, while the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index gained 6.4 percent. Last year, GM rose 42
percent, more than triple the S&P’s 13 percent increase.  The current Malibu was introduced over several months in
2012, beginning with the pricier Eco edition followed by higher-
volume versions in October. U.S. sales declined 6.1 percent in
the fourth quarter compared to the same period in 2011,
according to data compiled by Autodata. Malibu deliveries for
the year rose 3 percent to 210,951.  Competitive Segment  Competition in the midsize segment grew even hotter last
year as revamped offerings from Chevy and Toyota faced new
editions from  Ford Motor Co. , Honda Motor Co., and Nissan Motor
Co. Toyota sold 404,886 of its Camry midsize sedan. Malibu also
trailed Honda’s Accord, Nissan’s Altima, Ford’s Fusion and
 Hyundai Motor Co. ’s Sonata.  While VW’s Passat also lags behind those leaders, U.S.
sales last year of the Chattanooga, Tennessee-made model rose
fivefold to 117,023.  The Malibu has received middling  reviews . The redesigned
car was “good, but not great at any single thing,” Lawrence
Ulrich wrote in January in the New York Times.  “I expected this revamped Chevy to bring something more to
the office party, some claim to specialness -- in styling, fuel
economy, technology, anything,” he wrote. “Instead, the Malibu
does only what’s expected, and it loses points on rear-seat
comfort. The sedan lands smack in the middle of its class.”  Price Cuts  For January, GM cut the starting prices on 2013 Malibu
sedans by $300 for the 2LT and Eco models, $345 on the entry-
level LS and as much as $770 for the LT version, the company
said in an e-mailed statement. Malibu’s sales gain for the month
was short of the industry’s 14 percent increase.  “We didn’t do it from the standpoint of that it’s going to
make major shifts immediately or anything like that, because the
car had been gaining momentum,” said Clark, the GM executive.
“We just wanted to make sure that as that momentum continues to
build” that the car is competitive on the shopping websites.  Some car-shopping sites organize vehicles by starting
price, he said.  “It depends on the sites,” he said. “Some of them,
that’s all the customer sees is the starting at price before
they get into too much detail. So we wanted to make sure we were
in there.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Chicago at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  