-- Greenberg, Clifford Chance, Venable: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-02-08T12:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/greenberg-clifford-chance-venable-business-of-law.html
Greenberg Traurig LLP announced
leadership changes, including the promotion of  Hilarie Bass  to
co-president from global operating shareholder. Bass, a Miami
partner, is the first female president of the firm and holds the
highest position a woman has held there.  A former head of the firm’s litigation department, Bass is
lead counsel for the Homebuilder Group in the Chinese Drywall
MDL.  Brian Duffy , a Denver partner and the firm’s global
litigation practice chairman, will be co-president.  Former President  Matt Gorson  moves to co-chairman of the
firm along with  Cesar L. Alvarez , who has been executive
chairman.  Larry Hoffman , a former chairman, will become founding
chairman.  Bass’s promotion comes on the heels of a December lawsuit,
filed by a former Philadelphia partner who claims that women at
the firm are paid less and given fewer opportunities for
advancement than men.  The U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission in June
found “reasonable cause to believe” that the firm violated
federal law by underpaying female partners in the Philadelphia
office and retaliating against the woman when she complained
about it.  Bass, in a statement issued in December, called the lawsuit
“a financially motivated publicity stunt” and said it lacks
merit.  Four vice presidents were also named by  Richard A. Rosenbaum , the firm’s chief executive officer. They are  Ernest Greer , managing shareholder of the firm’s Atlanta office;  Brad Kaufman , co-chairman of the national securities litigation
practice;  Patricia Menendez-Cambo , chairwoman of the global
practice and co-chair of the infrastructure and project finance
practice; and  Keith Shapiro , chairman of the Chicago office and
co-chairman of the business reorganization practice.  “Change will occur in an orderly manner over several
years,” Rosenbaum said in a statement. “We are pleased to have
so many talented leaders and performers, not just those with
titles.”  Greenberg has about 1,750 attorneys at 35 offices in the
U.S., Latin America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Clifford Chance Elects Americas Regional Managing Partner  Evan Cohen  was elected Clifford Chance LLP’s regional
managing partner for the Americas. Cohen, a New York-based
partner, succeeds  Craig Medwick , who will return to his
corporate practice when his term ends April 30.  Cohen has expertise in acquisition and leveraged finance,
project finance and syndicated lending and restructurings. He
has led the Americas banking and finance practice at Clifford
Chance since 2005.  Under his leadership, the asset finance team advised on 10
aircraft finance-related transactions, the energy and
infrastructure team advised on $4 billion in renewable energy
projects through a U.S. government program, and the financial
services regulatory groups were integrated to handle U.S. and
European cross-border matters, the firm said.  Cohen thanked Medwick for leadership during a time of
economic turbulence in the U.S. market.  “He helped us build a strong foundation to deliver
profitable growth,” Cohen said in a statement.  Clifford Chance has 3,400 legal advisers at 35 offices in
25 countries.  Moves  Former FCC Public Safety, Homeland Security Chief Joins Venable  A former chief of the Public Safety and Homeland Security
Bureau for the Federal Communications Commission, James Arden
Barnett Jr., is joining Venable LLP in Washington, where he will
co-chair the telecommunications group and be a partner in the
firm’s cyber security practice.  Barnett, a retired Navy rear admiral, most recently was
senior vice president of national security policy at the Potomac
Institute for Policy Studies. While there, he focused on policy
issues related to national defense, cybersecurity, supply chain
threats and public safety broadband communications. He wrote a
report on the challenges facing a nationwide public safety
broadband network, the firm said.  At the FCC, Barnett worked to reduce botnets, secure the
domain name system and reduce Internet route hijacking under the
auspices of the Cybersecurity and Communications Reliability
Division, which he created, the firm said. He was chief of the
Public Safety and Homeland Security Bureau at the FCC from July
2009 through April 2012.  “At a time when many people were talking about ways to
respond to cyber assaults, Jamie was implementing protocols at
the FCC that have fortified our collective ability to protect
the nation’s networks, whether government, business or
industry,”  Brock Landry , chairman of Venable’s government
division, said in a statement.  At Venable, Barnett joins Frederick Joyce as the other
communications group co-chairman. The firm has seven U.S.
offices.  Cooley Practice Heads Leave Firm to Join Kirkland, Proskauer  Cooley LLP lost two partners in firm leadership positions
Feb. 6, to different law firms. Cooley tax practice group
chairman  Daniel P. Meehan  left to join Kirkland & Ellis LLP in
Chicago.  Connie N. Bertram , Cooley’s Washington employment and
labor and government contractor compliance groups head, joined
Proskauer Rose LLP.  Meehan, a former tax associate in Kirkland’s Chicago
office, focuses on the tax aspects of private fund formation,
private equity transactions and mergers and acquisitions, the
firm said.  “It was a difficult decision to leave Cooley, but I am
excited to rejoin Kirkland and its outstanding tax group,”
Meehan said in a statement. “Kirkland’s private fund and
transactional practices are at the forefront of the industry,
and I am thrilled to have the opportunity to work again with
colleagues in those groups.”  Bertram, who joins Proskauer as a partner in its Washington
office, will co-head the firm’s Washington labor and employment
practice and the firm’s government regulatory compliance and
relations and whistleblowing and retaliation groups.  Bertram defends employers in high-profile litigation and
has experience litigating whistle-blower, restrictive-covenant
and trade-secret claims and disputes involving executives, the
firm said. She also advises federal government contractors and
subcontractors on whistle-blower, affirmative action and
compliance issues. She joins  Guy Brenner , who will be senior
counsel and co-head of Proskauer’s noncompete and trade-secrets
group.  Cooley had no comment on the departures, according to a
firm spokesman. The firm did announce a new partner yesterday.
Jamie Leigh joined the business department as a member of the
mergers and acquisitions group. Leigh, who will be based in
Cooley’s San Francisco office, joins from Latham & Watkins LLP,
where she was a partner in the firm’s mergers and acquisitions
and public company representation practices.  Haynes & Boone, Chadbourne & Parke Hire Partners in Mexico City  Haynes & Boone LLP and Chadbourne & Parke LLP made recent
hires in Mexico City. Ariel Ramos joined Haynes & Boone as a
partner in the finance practice group. He joins the firm from
White & Case LLP. Ramos, who has been practicing for 20 years,
focuses on transactions related to the development and financing
of infrastructure projects, the firm said.  Chadbourne also hired an energy finance attorney,  Jose Antonio Prado Carranza . Prado was general counsel for Comision
Federal de Electricidad, Mexico’s state-owned electric facility,
before joining the firm. Before that, he worked at Petroleos
Mexicanos, Mexico’s state-owned petroleum company, where he
served as chief legal officer for control and compliance as well
as general counsel for contracts and corporate affairs, the firm
said.  Los Angeles Lateral Partner Hires: Jackson Lewis, Alston & Bird  Jackson Lewis LLP hired  Leila Nourani  in its Los Angeles
office as partner. Nourani joins from Foley & Lardner LLP, where
she was chairwoman of the Los Angeles office’s litigation
department from 2008 to 2011.  Her practice focuses on the defense of claims for sexual
harassment, discrimination, defamation, misappropriation of
trade secrets, unfair competition, violations of California
Business and Professions Code Sections 17200, as well as
contract and breach of fiduciary duty claims and CFAA
violations, the firm said.  Charles W. Cox joined Alston & Bird LLP’s litigation team
as a partner in the Los Angeles office. He was previously in the
Los Angeles office of  Latham & Watkins LLP .  Cox focuses on representing clients in complex commercial
litigation, including stockholder litigation, class actions,
derivative suits and matters related to mergers and
acquisitions, the firm said.  Dallas Roundup: Restructuring Partner, Former U.S. Attorney  John Mitchell joined Baker & McKenzie LLP’s corporate and
securities practice as a partner. Mitchell, who will be based in
Dallas, was previously a partner at Vinson & Elkins LLP.
Mitchell’s practice covers restructuring and reorganization,
including the representation of lenders, creditors, debtors and
trustees. Specifically, he focuses on complex bankruptcy, out-
of-court workouts and sales, voluntary liquidations,
receiverships and asset sales, the firm said. His recent roles
include lead counsel to Trico Marine Services Inc. and
representing exploration and production company CDX Gas LLC.  Patton Boggs LLP hired James T. Jacks, a former U.S.
attorney for the Northern District of Texas, as a partner in the
Dallas office. Jacks joins the firm’s litigation and dispute
resolution practice group. He will focus on client matters
involving internal investigations, white-collar crime,
securities fraud, health-care fraud and national security.  As U.S. attorney, he managed an office of more than 100
lawyers with an annual budget of about $20 million, the firm
said.  Video  A Better 2012 for Big Law (With Big Asterisks)  Law firm profits at a selection of the largest U.S. firms
increased by 4.3 percent in 2012, but “we do have some concerns
about what drove the results,” Dan DiPietro, chairman of Citi
Private Bank’s Law Firm Group, tells Bloomberg Law’s Lee
Pacchia.  At the 179 firms Citi surveyed -- 80 Am Law 100 firms, 49
Am Law 200 firms, and 50 additional firms -- demand grew just
0.2 percent. Revenue increased 3.6 percent in 2012, much of that
because of deal work that began, ended and was collected in the
fourth quarter because of concerns about increasing tax rates in
2013, he says.  To see the video, click here.  Litigation  S&P Lawsuit Goes Before Former Prosecutor, Clinton Appointee  The judge who will preside over the U.S. government’s
lawsuit against Standard & Poor’s is a former prosecutor and
Vietnam War veteran who travels to Afghanistan to help reform
the judiciary in that war-torn country, Bloomberg News’ Edvard
Pettersson reports.  U.S. District Judge  David O. Carter  in Santa Ana,
California, is assigned to the case the Justice Department filed
Feb. 4. The government accuses  McGraw-Hill Cos . and its S&P unit
of knowingly understating the credit risks of residential
mortgage-backed securities and collateralized-debt obligations
in order to gain more business.  Carter, 68, was nominated by President  Bill Clinton  in
1998. Before becoming a federal judge, he was an Orange County
homicide prosecutor and a California state court judge. He
earned a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart during his service with
the U.S. Marine Corps in Vietnam.  “He’s not afraid of anything or anyone,” said Wayne
Gross, formerly a federal prosecutor in charge of the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Santa Ana. “Both sides could not have
gotten a better judge. He gives every fiber of his being to the
case before him.”  In the S&P case, Carter will face another decorated Marine
Corps veteran, San Francisco lawyer  John Keker , who represents
the rating firm. Keker, whose clients have included  Lance Armstrong  during his criminal investigation and class-action
lawyer Bill Lerach, retired from the military in 1967 after
being wounded in Vietnam.  Carter is part of a public-private partnership for justice
reform in Afghanistan, a program that, among other projects,
sends U.S. judges to that nation to work with local legal
professionals to help create a better judicial system.  “That’s how much he cares about justice,” Gross, now a
lawyer with Greenberg Traurig LLP in Irvine, California, said in
a telephone interview. “He’s going around the globe despite his
heavy court load.”  “He’s the hardest-working judge I’ve ever encountered and
I’ve been doing this for 47 years,” said Mark Overland, a
lawyer who represented a Mexican Mafia member in a six-month
trial before Carter.  Overland, of Santa Monica, California, said Carter would
have lawyers come to court at 6:30 or 7 a.m. to deal with
outstanding issues before the jury came in. After the trial
ended for the day, Carter would handle his civil case agenda in
the evening, he said.  “There’d be lawyers there till midnight,” Overland said
in a telephone interview.  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-00779, U.S. District
Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  For more, click here, here and here.  News  London Lawyer Jailed Over Fraud That Funded Luxury Lifestyle  A former U.K. lawyer was sentenced to four years in jail
for false accounting in a 2.8 million-pound ($4.4 million) fraud
that helped fund a lavish lifestyle of yachts, cars and multiple
homes. He was also convicted of forging letters to try to
receive a civic honor.  Nathan Andrew Iyer, an ex-lawyer at Ince & Co., set up
bogus companies, created false invoices and opened bank accounts
over 12 years to help fund his spending, the Metropolitan Police
Service said in a statement.  “Iyer displayed an astounding degree of audacity,” Mark
Cross, the investigating police officer, said in an e-mailed
statement. “He abused his position as a solicitor and partner
of his law firm to defraud the company and its clients out of
millions of pounds, in order that he could live a flash
lifestyle.”  Faye Lynam, a spokeswoman for Ince & Co., said all clients
affected by the fraud had been reimbursed. Iyer, 46, also tried
to receive the Order of the British Empire by writing fake
letters to the Department of Health, claiming he raised millions
for a cancer charity, the police said.  U.K. civic honors are awarded to well-known people and
members of the public deemed to have made a major contribution
to British society.  The Crown Prosecution Service declined to give details of
Iyer’s lawyers in the case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  