-- Miami Makes Blake James Hurricanes’ Full-Time Athletic Director
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2013-02-08T18:18:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/miami-makes-blake-james-hurricanes-full-time-athletic-director.html
Blake James, the  University of
Miami’s  interim athletic director since October, was given the
job on a full-time basis, school President  Donna E. Shalala  said
in a statement.  James takes over an athletic department that is under
investigation for improper benefits provided by a booster and is
awaiting sanctions from college sports’ governing body. He
replaces Shawn Eichorst, who signed a five-year contract in
October to become the University of Nebraska’s athletic director.  “Blake James has proven that he has the experience, skills,
leadership and especially the love for the university that we
need in athletics,” Shalala said in the statement.  The National Collegiate Athletic Association inquiry stems
from a 2011 story on Yahoo! Sports in which former Miami booster
Nevin Shapiro said he gave cash and benefits, such as cars and
yacht rides, to at least 72 Hurricanes between 2002 and 2010.
Such incentives are a violation of NCAA rules.  The Hurricanes, who have won at least a share of five
college football national championships since 1983, finished the
2012 season with a 7-5 record.  Although they were eligible to play in the postseason, the
school imposed a bowl ban for the second consecutive year to try
to lessen future NCAA penalties.  The NCAA last August ordered eight Miami players to miss
games and repay benefits from Shapiro, endorsing a decision
initiated by the school.  In January, the NCAA acknowledged it broke its own rules
for acquiring evidence during its investigation of Miami and
begun an internal inquiry. It won’t make any rulings on the
Miami allegations until its own review has been completed.  James, in his third year with the university, was the
athletic director at the University of Maine from 2005 to 2010,
where he focused on marketing, ticketing, retail and fundraising.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Curtis Eichelberger  in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  