-- IBM’s Watson Turned Into Cloud Products With WellPoint Help
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2013-02-08T17:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ibm-s-watson-turned-into-cloud-products-for-wellpoint-s-doctors.html
International Business Machines Corp. 
turned its Watson computer into a virtual assistant to cancer
doctors, showing how it’s converting the high-powered machine
into a revenue generator.  IBM worked with health insurer  WellPoint Inc.  and New
York’s Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center to adapt the
computer, which beat humans in “Jeopardy!” in 2011, into three
commercial products. Watson will answer medical questions from
doctors, researchers, medical centers and insurance carriers,
the world’s largest computer-services company said today at an
event in New York.  “This is a major milestone in IBM’s commercialization of
Watson,” said  Manoj Saxena , IBM’s general manager for Watson
solutions. “We have significant plans this year for scaling
Watson.”  The health-care products will contribute toward IBM’s  goal 
of generating $16 billion in revenue from business analytics by
2015. By the end of 2013, 1,600 providers and 50 percent of
nurses in the system of WellPoint, the second-largest U.S.
health insurer, will be using a Watson product for recommending
whether medical procedures should be approved, IBM said.  Health care faces a challenge of “too much information,
not enough time,” said  Lori Beer , the executive vice president
for information technology at WellPoint. “Medical literature is
doubling every five years. How do we keep up with that?”  More Accuracy  WellPoint, based in Indianapolis, plans to make money by
helping doctors make more accurate treatment decisions, reducing
the time it has to spend pre-authorizing procedures and selling
the product to other insurers, she said in an interview. Neither
company provided revenue forecasts for Watson services.  In 2012, Watson became 240 percent faster and 75 percent
smaller so it can run on a single server, IBM said today. The
Armonk, New York-based company now can install a Watson machine
on-site for a business or remotely via cloud computing to a
personal computer, tablet or smartphone.  Later this year, IBM will announce products for the finance
industry similar to Watson’s health-care applications, Saxena
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  