-- Mickelson Trails by Five Shots at Pebble Beach National Pro-Am
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-02-08T05:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/mickelson-trails-by-five-shots-at-pebble-beach-national-pro-am.html
Phil Mickelson  trails leaders  Hunter Mahan  and Russell Knox by five shots a quarter of the way
through his bid to win golf’s Pebble Beach National Pro-Am two
years in a row.  Mickelson, who shot a 60 on his way to winning the Phoenix
Open five days ago, finished yesterday’s opening round at 1-
under-par 69 after bogeying two of his last five holes
on the Monterey Peninsula Country Club’s Shore Course in
California.  “One of the things I’ve learned over the years here is you
need to be patient,” Mickelson told reporters. “There are
plenty of birdie holes throughout the three courses.”  Mahan dropped one shot in a round of 65 at Pebble Beach
Golf Links, while Knox, from Scotland, had two bogeys on the
Shore Course in matching his career low score of 64. The pair
are at 6 under and hold a one-shot lead over a group of six
players that includes Seung-Yul Noh of South Korea, who had the
best score at Spyglass Hill.  The tournament groups professionals with celebrities such
as actor  Bill Murray  and New England Patriots coach  Bill Belichick . Mickelson, a four-time winner in 17 prior visits to
the event, is paired with  Skip McGee , the chief executive
officer of Barclays Plc’s corporate and investment banking in
the Americas.  The professionals and amateurs rotate among the three
courses over the first three days before the pros play the final
round at Pebble Beach on the final day.  Phoenix Win  Mickelson last week led from start to finish to win the
Phoenix Open for a third time. The 42-year-old missed a chance
to become the sixth player in an official U.S. PGA Tour event to
score 59 when his 25-foot putt on the last hole of the opening
round caught the lip of the cup and spun out.  Mickelson won at the TPC Scottsdale’s Stadium Course with a
four-round score of 28-under-par 256, two off the PGA Tour
record for 72 holes. Mickelson’s 41st career title, his first in
almost a year, catapulted him 12 places up the  Official World
Golf Ranking  to 10th.  Mickelson is seeking to join  Mark O’Meara  as the only five-
time winner of the Pebble Beach National Pro-Am. Mickelson has
won in consecutive weeks twice before -- in 2005 at the Phoenix
Open and Pebble Beach, and the following year at the BellSouth
Classic and the Masters Tournament.  Six golfers have won two straight editions of the Pebble
Beach National Pro-Am, most recently  Dustin Johnson  in 2009-10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dex McLuskey  in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 