-- Light Sees Rio Power Sales Rising on Olympics, World Cup
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   A d r i a n a   C h i a r i n i
-- 2013-02-08T21:14:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/light-sees-rio-power-sales-rising-on-olympics.html
Light SA , the power distributor
serving Rio de Janeiro, expects electricity sales to rise more
than 3 percent this year as the company benefits from a growing
middle class and investments ahead of the 2016 Olympic Games.  Rising demand for electricity means Light’s 2013 sales
growth will match a similar increase last year, Chief Financial
Officer  Joao Zolini , said in an interview at Light’s
headquarters in downtown Rio yesterday.  Preparations for the Olympics and the 2014 soccer World Cup
are driving an expansion in Rio’s hotel capacity and
improvements in infrastructure that include extending the subway
network and renovating the city’s downtown port area. A drive to
quell the city’s crime led police to occupy the city’s slums,
known as favelas, making room for more installation of basic
services including water and energy.  “It’s a magic time for Rio,” Zolini said. “There was 40
percent of the market we used to not even consider and are now
potential clients.”  Light, based in Rio de Janeiro, fell 0.7 percent to 19.68
reais at the close in Sao Paulo, the lowest since October 2008.  The government’s decision to lower power rates that
generators sell to distributors like Light will reduce the
company’s spending, he said. Rates have been by slashed as much
as 32 percent since Jan. 24.  “About 15 percent of the power we buy to distribute to
clients is lost through robberies and technical problems, so its
money we lose,” Zolini said. “With lower power rates, we will
be paying less for that electricity we lose,” he said.  Light’s revenue grew 5.5 percent to 1.7 billion reais ($860
million) in the third quarter, the third consecutive year-on-
year increase for the period. Fourth quarter results will be
announced March 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Chiarini in Rio de Janeiro at 
 achiarini4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net  