-- India Beats Russia as Aging Workers Sap Growth: Cutting Research
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2013-02-08T00:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/india-beats-russia-as-aging-workers-sap-growth-cutting-research.html
The era of rapid labor-force growth
led by younger and growing populations -- reflected in the so-
called demographic dividend -- is coming to an end around the
world, according to UBS AG.  That may mean slower economic growth and weaker house
prices if history is any guide, economists  Andrew Cates  and
 Christine Li  said in a Feb. 5 report.  Their study found Asia’s relatively faster economic
expansion over the last five decades can be traced to
demographic reasons. Younger populations can also explain house-
price gains as they drive demand for property.  Asia, led by China and Japan, is now set to see much slower
population growth, according to UBS. China’s share of the world
population, for example, will fall from about 21 percent in 2002
to about 17 percent in 2032. Only Africa, and to a lesser extent
the Middle East, enjoy favorable regional demographic trends.  On a country-by-county basis, potential winners are the
Philippines, India, Indonesia and Malaysia, while Bangladesh,
Pakistan and Cambodia are even better placed. Brazil, Mexico,
Turkey and Nigeria also stand to gain. Not scoring well in UBS’s
analysis are Russia, Israel, Australia and Ireland. The U.S. and
U.K. fare relatively well, UBS says.  Economies “with positive demographic potential by
definition face a more promising future than those that do
not,” said Singapore-based Cates and Li, in London. “The
lessons of the last few years suggest that they stand to perform
relatively well.”  Still, the UBS economists said aging populations don’t
necessarily mean economic pain, given policy makers can act to
avoid the damage. They can encourage immigration, boost female
labor participation rates and postpone retirement.  * * *  Financial markets gave the wrong signals to European
authorities during the debt crisis, resulting in excess
austerity being imposed, says a new report co-authored by
economist  Paul De Grauwe .  The  study , published Feb. 5 by the Brussels-based Centre
for European Policy Studies, found the magnitude of the decline
in bond yields following European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s July pledge to save the euro was closely related to the
previous increase. Having suffered the biggest rise in yields
relative to Germany before Draghi’s intervention, Greece then
enjoyed the largest decline afterwards. Its 10-year bond yield
is now at about 11 percent, down from about 30 percent in May.  That suggests to De Grauwe of the London School of
Economics and co-author Yuemei Ji of the University of Leuven in
Belgium that market panic and relief, rather than economic
fundamentals, dominated bond trading during the three-year debt
crisis. The artificially high bond yields led governments to
demand budget cuts.  Investors “acquired great power in that they spread panic
into the world of European authorities, who translated the
market panic into enforcing excessive austerity,” said the
authors. “The governance of the euro zone will have to change
in order to avoid being taken hostage again by volatile market
sentiments.”  * * *  There’s a revolution under way in the collateral available
in the global financial system, which increasingly relies on it
to support transactions.  International Monetary Fund economist  Manmohan Singh 
estimates the volume of collateral -- the assets pledged as
security for loans -- has increased to levels on par with
monetary aggregates such as the M2 measure of money supply over
the past decade.  The challenge now is that the availability of collateral
may be constrained by the global financial crisis, European debt
turmoil and revamp of bank regulation, Singh said in a report
released by the IMF on Jan. 28.  Singh says that since 2007, markets have become less
lubricated because the re-use or velocity of collateral has
declined. Central banks are increasingly accepting lower-quality
collateral for loans, while regulations will force banks to
stockpile high-quality assets.  Solutions Singh suggests to increase the availability of
collateral could include central banks, such as the ECB, renting
out their stock of good collateral. Some fine-tuning of
regulatory demands may also be in order, he said.  * * *  For an economy on the edge of a triple-dip recession and
witnessing the toughest fiscal squeeze since World War II, it
may be a surprise that last year’s employment gains in the U.K.
were the largest in 13 years.  Since the first quarter of 2010, the 387,000 decline in
government jobs has been dwarfed by the 1.15 million new jobs in
the private sector, leaving a net job gain of more than 750,000.
The same pattern exists in the U.S.  That shouldn’t be a shock given previous episodes of fiscal
tightening around the world, according to London-based Fathom
Consulting.  A study by its economists found a pattern of “public
down, private up” in the labor markets of Canada, Sweden and
the U.K. during the 1994-1999 bouts of austerity, according to a
Feb. 4 presentation to clients in London.  Among the reasons is that fewer government jobs help put
downward pressure on wages, allowing companies to take advantage
of cheaper labor, says Fathom economist  Erik Britton , a London-
based director of Fathom.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  