-- IPOs Dry Up as Rousseff Rules Spur Stock Rout: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-02-08T15:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ipos-dry-up-as-rousseff-rules-spur-stock-rout-corporate-brazil.html
President Dilma Rousseff’s
interventionist policies are driving down stock prices and
costing Brazil its position as Latin America’s biggest market
for initial public offerings.  Software maker Linx SA’s 527.9 million-real ($268.4
million) IPO on Feb. 6 was Brazil’s first in nine months after
just three deals in all of last year, the fewest since 2003.
That compares with six in Mexico, including Grupo Financiero
Santander Mexico SAB, the nation’s biggest share offering,
marking the first time in nine years that Brazil didn’t have the
most IPOs in the region.  The benchmark Bovespa index fell 23 percent in dollar terms
in the past year through yesterday,  compared  with the MSCI
Emerging Market Index’s 1 percent gain, as measures intended to
spur economic growth eroded profits in some of Brazil’s biggest
industries. Rousseff’s rules forced state-controlled oil company
Petroleo Brasileiro SA to charge below-market gasoline prices,
pushed banks to reduce profit to “civil levels” and changed
utility contracts to lower electricity rates.  “What has driven investors away from equities is the
government’s interference in the markets,”  Fausto Gouveia , who
helps manage 380 million reais at Legan Administracao de
Recursos, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo. “From the
Bovespa’s recent performance you can tell that there’s barely
demand for the stocks that are already trading, so why would it
be any better with newcomers?”  Slowing Growth  Growth in Latin America’s biggest economy slowed to 1
percent in 2012, from 2.7 percent in 2011 and 7.5 percent in
2010, while  inflation  exceeded the 4.5 percent midpoint of the
central bank’s target range for 29 consecutive months in
January.  Petrobras , as Petroleo Brasileiro is also known, dropped 32
percent since February 2012 through yesterday. State-controlled
lender  Banco do Brasil SA  slipped 13 percent and power supplier
 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA  tumbled 62 percent in the same
period. Energy, financial and utility companies have a combined
weighting of about 42 percent in the Bovespa  index , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  As stocks fell, the average  valuation  of the Bovespa’s 69
members slid to 1.1 times the value of their assets, the lowest
versus the MSCI index since 2007, leaving new issuers on the
sidelines waiting for the market to improve.  ‘Depressed Markets’  “The government in Brazil has been very interventionist in
several sectors, which has hurt sentiment,”  Gabriel Wallach ,
who manages about $2.5 billion in global assets as chief
investment officer of global emerging market equities at BNP
Paribas Investment Partners in Boston, said in a telephone
interview. “Brazilian corporates are eager to sell, and they
haven’t been able to because of the depressed markets.”  The Finance Ministry declined to comment on the drop in
IPOs in an e-mailed statement. Officials from Brazil’s
presidential office did not respond to an e-mail sent by
Bloomberg.  Five companies canceled or postponed plans for an IPO in
Brazil last year, and two out of the three deals closed were
priced below the lower range of the target set by the banks
coordinating the offerings, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The Bovespa’s decline has pushed valuations to levels lower
than in countries such as  Mexico , making share sales less
attractive for Brazilian companies as issuers want to sell at
higher levels, according to Wallach and  Otavio Vieira , a partner
at Rio de Janeiro-based hedge fund Fides Asset Management.
Brazil’s benchmark index trades at 10.7 times its forecast
earnings for the next four quarters, which compares with a ratio
of 15.3 times for Mexico’s IPC index.  Debt Sales  “With stocks trading at current valuations, most companies
would probably be better off looking for other sources of
funding, such as debt,” Vieira said in a phone interview. “The
debt market has been doing quite well lately, and Brazilian
companies have been able to borrow at a reasonable cost.”  Brazilian corporate debt  returned  12.8 percent in 2012, the
best performance since 2009, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
index data.  The country’s biggest companies led a record $47.4 billion
in overseas debt sales in 2012, the most ever from a developing
country, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Junk-rated
debt issuance from Brazilian companies reached $4.25 billion
last month, second only to China among emerging markets.  While IPOs suffered in the past two years with the
Bovespa’s decline, faster economic growth this year should boost
the equity market and increase demand for shares sold in initial
offerings, said Bernardo Rothe, the executive manager of capital
markets at Banco do Brasil, the biggest underwriter of Brazilian
IPOs in 2012.  Growth Outlook  “There’s a strong link between the Bovespa’s performance
and demand for IPOs, so if the market performs better this year,
as many people believe it will, there should be also a pick up
in share sales,” Rothe said in a phone interview from Sao
Paulo. “Companies may use debt to fund their business as well,
but debt is not a substitute for equity. Each instrument has its
own purposes.”  Brazil’s gross domestic product will rise 3.1 percent in
2013, according to the median estimate in a central bank survey
of about 100 analysts published on Feb. 4. Consumer prices
measured by the IPCA index will rise 5.47 percent in the next 12
months, the survey indicated, less than the 5.53 forecast in the
previous week.  Smiles IPO  Sao Paulo-based Linx, whose IPO was priced within the
target range, said in its prospectus it plans to use proceeds
for acquisitions and to increase working capital. Shares jumped
15 percent to 30.95 reais at 12:04 p.m. in Sao Paulo today, its
first day of trading.  Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA , the
world’s most indebted airline, is planning to list its frequent-
flier unit Smiles and its board is scheduled to meet today to
decide which banks will manage the sale.  Gol’s press office said the company wouldn’t make any
additional comment about the Smiles IPO other than what has been
said in regulatory filings. The airline said in a statement on
Dec. 21 that its unit’s share offering is subject to market
conditions and approval of regulators.  While rebounding global growth may open temporary “windows
of opportunity” for IPOs in Brazil, slowing economic growth and
government intervention should keep these offerings from posting
a sustained recovery anytime soon, Legan’s Gouveia said.  “I think you may see some successful IPOs here and there,
but those would be the exceptions, not the rule,” he said.
“Overall, I don’t see the market eager to take on more
offerings.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  