-- Ireland Was Right to Force ECB’s Hand on Debt-Relief Plan
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-02-08T00:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ireland-was-right-to-force-ecb-s-hand-on-debt-relief-plan.html
Ireland has reached a debt-relief
deal that, in principle, could serve as a precedent for European
leaders in their dealings with other financially troubled
governments. All you have to do is ignore the details of how it
happened.  At issue is an obligation the Irish government took on in
2010, during the rescue of the now-defunct Anglo Irish Bank. At
the urging of the European Union, and in return for emergency
loans from the European Central Bank, the government issued an
IOU that allowed Anglo Irish to pay its bondholders. The IOU has
since been a heavy burden on Irish taxpayers, requiring annual
payments of more than $4 billion.  This week, the ECB effectively accepted an Irish proposal
to reschedule the debt -- a move that the country’s
extraordinary efforts to fulfill its EU-mandated austerity
program thoroughly justify. The government will exchange the
IOU, which consists of 10-year promissory notes paying an 8
percent interest rate, for longer-term bonds paying about 3
percent. Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny  said the swap will save
taxpayers about $27 billion over the next decade.  Flash Point  What could be wrong with this? Nothing -- except for the
small detail that Ireland had been pressing for a solution
exactly like this for almost two years, only to be met with
intransigence. The matter had become a flash point in Irish
politics and a source of bitter resentment at the EU. In recent
weeks, the ECB had reportedly rejected a debt-relief plan
identical to the one Ireland is now executing, arguing that
converting the notes to bonds would amount to illegal “monetary
financing” -- that is, printing money to finance the Irish
government’s budget deficit.  Ultimately, Ireland forced the issue by moving ahead with
the liquidation of the toxic remains of Anglo Irish, a decision
that also triggered immediate action on the promissory notes.
Presented with a fait accompli, ECB President  Mario Draghi  said
the debt restructuring had been “noted,” a wording that has been
widely interpreted as grudging acceptance from the ECB.  Criticizing the ECB for its foot-dragging and indecision
has its limits. It has had to work within a legal framework that
was devised for different times, in blissful ignorance of the
calamity that would descend on the euro area in 2008. Of all the
EU institutions that have been called upon to act in the crisis,
the ECB under Draghi’s leadership has proved the most effective.
It’s no exaggeration to say that his intervention last summer --
when he promised to do “whatever it takes” to keep the euro area
intact -- saved the whole project from imminent disaster.  Nonetheless, it’s depressingly characteristic of the EU’s
approach to the entire sovereign-debt crisis that legalistic
nit-picking and lack of firm leadership delayed what was both
necessary and inevitable. If Ireland hadn’t acted, the
government would still be pleading, the ECB would still be
consulting its lawyers, and Irish taxpayers would still be on
the rack.  Instead of quietly signaling their approval, the ECB and
the EU should see the Irish deal as an opportunity to set an
example for the rest of the euro area’s struggling governments.
Ireland deserves generous treatment not just because the terms
of its early EU assistance were so brutal, but also because it
has since made  heroic efforts  to control public borrowing and
restore the economy to health.  Here’s what the message should be: Governments that do
their part can expect to be treated with flexibility and
solidarity by their EU partners. And they won’t have to ambush
anyone first.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 