-- Ireland’s Bond Yields Drop to Lowest Since 2005 After Bank Deal
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2013-02-08T13:27:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ireland-s-bond-yields-drop-to-lowest-since-2005-after-bank-deal.html
Ireland’s five-year note yields fell
to the lowest in more than seven years, after the nation won an
agreement to stretch out the cost of rescuing the former Anglo
Irish Bank Corp.  Under the plan, dubbed ‘Project Red,’ Ireland will swap so-
called promissory notes used to rescue the failed lender with 25
billion euros ($33.4 billion) of long-term government bonds with
maturities of up to 40 years. The accord will ease the nation’s
borrowing needs over the next decade by 20 billion euros by
sidestepping the annual instalments that had been due on Anglo’s
original bailout deal.  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said today that the drop in
borrowing costs is the “most crucial” benefit from the accord,
as the nation seeks to exit an international bailout program.
The collapse of the Irish financial system after a real-estate
bubble pushed Ireland close to bankruptcy, and forced the
country to seek a 67.5 billion-euros bailout in 2010.  The accord with the European Central Bank increases “the
probability that the sovereign will be in a position to regain
full market access and exit the bailout successfully at the end
of the year,” said  Juliet Tennent , an economist at Goodbody
Stockbrokers in Dublin, in a note today.  Ireland’s  five-year note yield  fell as much as 11 basis
points, or 0.11 percentage point, to 2.80 percent, the lowest
since October 2005. It was at 2.81 percent as of 1:24 p.m.
London time.  Drip Feed  Under a deal agreed at the height of Ireland’s crisis three
years ago, the government had been due to give Anglo Irish 3.1
billion euros a year for at least the next decade to pay down a
central bank loan. Now, the first capital payment is due in 2038
and the last in payment will be made in 2053.  The bonds will be held by the Irish central bank, which will
drip feed them on to market, starting with a minimum sale of 500
million euros of the securities before the end of next year.
That accelerates to 2 billion euros a year after 2024.  The deal is “credit positive,” Moody’s Investors Service
credit analyst  Dietmar Hornung  said in an interview yesterday.  He also said that the country’s sub-investment Ba1 grade
rating remains appropriate. While the deal eases Ireland’s
financing needs, it makes little dent on its debt levels.  General government debt will peak at about 122 percent of
gross domestic product this year, up from 25 percent in 2007,
according to the National Treasury Management Agency.  Seeking to cut that debt, Noonan said the government now
will turn its attention to seeking a refund from Europe’s new
rescue funds of the 30 billion euros it ploughed into lenders
including  Allied Irish Banks Plc  and Bank of Ireland Plc.  Pony Up  While the European Stability Mechanism is being prepared to
recapitalize banks in future, Ireland “had to pony up” to shore
up its lenders in recent years, he said in an interview Dublin-
based Newstalk radio today.  The cost to insure against Ireland reneging on debt
payments using five-year credit-default swaps has dropped to 183
basis points from a peak of 1,196 on July 18, 2011. It’s
“highly likely” that Ireland will regain full market access
and be eligible for the ECB’s Outright Monetary Transactions
bond buying program,  Alessandro Giansanti , a senior rates
strategist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, said in a note.  “This reduces to a large extent the risk of a
restructuring event for Irish government bonds and it will push
spreads to tighter levels,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 