-- Titan Targets Six-Fold Sales Rise in Aircraft Parts
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2013-02-08T01:52:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/titan-targets-six-fold-sales-rise-in-aircraft-parts.html
Titan Industries Ltd. , an Indian
company that got 96 percent of sales from watches and jewelry,
plans to boost its aircraft parts unit revenue six-fold in five
years as it taps rising local output of aerospace hardware.  Sales from the unit that makes components for companies
including  United Technologies Corp.  and Hindustan Aeronautics
Ltd., will rise to 10 billion rupees ($188 million) by 2018 from
1.5 billion rupees currently, N.P. Sridhar, business head of
 Precision Engineering Components  at Titan, said in an interview
in Bangalore yesterday. The company will pursue partnerships,
including with clients, to spur growth, he said.  Titan, which is India’s largest maker of branded  jewelry  by
market value, is expanding the business that serves aeronautical
and defense industries as the nation seeks to cut arms purchases
from overseas. The government is developing policies mandating
foreign companies have local partners or use domestically
sourced components to boost growth.  The company also supplies the Indian Space Research
Organisation as well as  United Technologies ’s Pratt & Whitney
unit and state-owned Hindustan Aeronautics, or HAL.  “HAL has a huge number of defense orders and they aren’t
able to execute,” Sridhar said. “They want bigger
organizations to help them. We are still small, but down the
line there will be strategic partnerships that will help us
grow.”  Jewelry accounted for 79 percent of  Titan’s 88 billion
rupees of sales  in the year ended March 31, while watches made
up for about 17 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The rest came from the company’s eye wear and
precision engineering businesses, which includes aircraft
systems that operate wing flaps, engine controls, fuel injection
systems and auxiliary power unit components.  The company, which is a Tata Group venture and was set up
in association with Tamil Nadu Industrial Development Corp. in
1984, makes precision engineering components at its facility
near Bangalore and in Goa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  