-- Bruins Delay Game, Ivy League Fencing Postponed by Storm
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-02-09T22:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ivy-league-fencing-rutgers-lacrosse-openers-postponed-by-storm.html
The Boston Bruins called off their
hockey game against the Tampa Bay Lightning, the  Ivy League 
postponed its fencing championships at Harvard University and
Rutgers University delayed its men’s and women’s lacrosse
openers as heavy snow hit the East Coast.  With difficult travel conditions existing throughout New
England, the Bruins said today they would reschedule the game
against the Lightning at TD Garden, the National Hockey League
team reported in a news release. No date was set.  “Although both clubs and the assigned on-ice officials
are in Boston, travel conditions remain too hazardous for fans,
security personnel and TD Garden staff to get to the arena,”
the league said in an e-mail.  The Ivy League said on its website that it decided to
postpone the two-day Fencing Round-Robins, where Princeton
University was scheduled to defend its men’s and women’s titles.
A new date hasn’t been set for the event at Cambridge,
Massachusetts-based Harvard’s Gordon Track.  New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Rutgers  pushed back the
lacrosse openers against Manhattan until today. The men were to
play at 11 a.m. and the women at 2 p.m., Jason Baum, a spokesman
for Rutgers, said in a Twitter post.  The storm has caused more than 2,000 U.S. flights to be
canceled and triggered blizzard warnings in New York. More than
24 inches of snow are forecast for Boston and Providence, Rhode
Island, according to the National Weather Service.  The women’s basketball team at Cornell is among many other
college squads affected by the storm. Its game yesterday at
Harvard was pushed back to today at 6 p.m., and its meeting with
Dartmouth, originally scheduled for today, will be held tomorrow
at 4 p.m., according to Cornell’s  website .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  