-- J&J President Visited Hip Surgeon Pre-Recall, Jury Told
-- B y   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y ,   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2013-02-08T23:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/j-j-president-visited-hip-surgeon-pre-recall-jury-told.html
Johnson & Johnson ’s DePuy unit
president told a California surgeon months before 93,000 metal
hip implants were recalled that sales would be halted, without
explaining that the devices were increasingly failing, the
doctor testified.  Craig Swenson  told state court jurors in Los Angeles today
that DePuy President  David Floyd  had lunch with him in La Jolla,
California, in March 2010. Swenson had earlier testified he had
implanted 200 ASR XL hips before Floyd’s visit.  “He informed me that they were going to discontinue sales
of the ASR,” Swenson said. “He didn’t give me a reason why.”  Swenson testified at the first of 10,000 lawsuits over
claims DePuy defectively designed the hips and failed to warn of
the risks. At the time of the August 2010 recall, J&J said 12
percent of the devices failed in the U.K. within five years. An
Australian registry showed the failure rate last year exceeded
40 percent. Analysts say the lawsuits may cost J&J billions of
dollars.  Swenson, who resumed his testimony today after first
appearing on Jan. 29, said he “pretty much stopped’ using the
ASR because patients were experiencing pain and high levels of
metal ions from wear on the cobalt and chromium devices.
Patients claim in lawsuits that the ASR left them in pain or
immobilized by joint dislocations, infections and bone
fractures.  Numerous Complaints  Floyd, who was president of  DePuy  from 2007 to March 2011,
discussed Swenson’s ASR experiences, the doctor said. Floyd
never mentioned that DePuy had received numerous complaints from
surgeons or that the company had considered a redesign,
according to Swenson.  ‘‘He said they were going to stop supporting it,” Swenson
said. “There was no part of the conversation that there was any
significant problem or that patients needed any special care.”  In his testimony on Jan. 29, Swenson said Floyd visited
eight San Diego surgeons who were heavy users of ASR hips. He
said he had implanted more than 5,000 hip devices over three
decades. Of 200 ASR devices he implanted, 38 percent failed, a
far higher rate than any other device he has used, he testified.  Swenson testified in support of Loren Kransky, 65, a
retired Montana prison guard. Kransky had an ASR hip implanted
in December 2007 and removed in February 2012.  Denies Claims  J&J, the world’s  largest  seller of health-care products,
denies that it defectively designed the device or that it
contributed to the health problems of Kransky. J&J is based in
New Brunswick, New Jersey.  In an opening statement on Jan. 25, J&J attorney Alexander
Calfo said that metal “staining” caused by debris from
Kransky’s hip “did not damage Mr. Kransky’s tissue or create
the need for the revision” surgery. Kransky attorney  John Gomez 
asked about that statement.  “You’ve got to be kidding,” Swenson said. “The metal
staining damaged his tissue. Those tissues are damaged. We take
those tissues out because they are non-functional.”  During cross-examination by DePuy attorney Michael Zellers
today, Swenson acknowledged the company’s artificial hips have a
positive benefit in that they substantially reduced the risk of
hip dislocation.  The doctor also conceded that debris caused by wear is a
risk of any metal-on-metal hip implant, not just DePuy’s line of
devices. The company’s lawyers are seeking to convince jurors
that problems with Kransky’s artificial hip were routine and not
caused by any defects in DePuy’s device.  The case is Kransky v. DePuy, BC456086, California Superior
Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maurice Possley in Los Angeles Superior Court
at  mauricepossley@gmail.com ;
David Voreacos in Newark, New Jersey, at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  