-- Japan Stocks Surge Raises Disappointment Risk on Abe’s BOJ Pick
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2013-02-09T02:03:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/japan-stocks-surge-raises-disappointment-risk-for-abe-s-boj-pick.html
Japan’s stock market rally, fueled by
expectations for aggressive monetary easing, raises the risk of
disappointment as Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  prepares to unveil
his choice of central bank chief.  The Nikkei 225 Stock Average has gained more than 25
percent in the past three months as the yen fell nearly 14
percent against the dollar in the same period. The benchmark
index halted its 12-week advance yesterday after  Sony Corp .
reported a surprise loss, while the yen rose after the nation’s
finance minister said the currency’s fall was too quick.  Potential candidates to succeed BOJ governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  cited by analysts and local media reflect a range of
monetary policy outcomes. While Asian Development Bank President
 Haruhiko Kuroda  says the BOJ should ease until it reaches 2
percent inflation and former BOJ Deputy Governor  Kazumasa Iwata 
has urged more expansive easing,  Toshiro Muto  warned of the
dangers of prolonged loose policy when he was deputy governor
five years ago.  “Abe just can’t afford to fail on this,” said  Yoji Otani ,
an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Tokyo. “If he appoints
someone who doesn’t signal aggressive easing, the favorable
market trend could be reversed and Abe could lose upper house
elections in July.”  Almost seven in 10 voters have positive expectations for
Abe’s economic policies, according to a newspaper poll published
Feb 4., support that Abe will want to maintain before the
election for control of the upper house.  The yen’s weakening has boosted the outlook for exporters
from  Toyota Motor Corp . to  Panasonic Corp .  Toyota’s shares  have
risen more than 50 percent in the past three months, with the
automaker this week raising its profit forecast for the year
ending in March to a five-year high.  Aso’s Comments  Finance Minister  Taro Aso  told reporters in Tokyo yesterday
that the yen’s drop has been “too rapid,” after earlier
telling lawmakers the government hadn’t anticipated the yen’s
rapid move to around 90 per dollar. The yen was 1.3 percent
higher at 92.42 per dollar at 7:30 p.m. in Tokyo yesterday,
after rising as much as 1.6 percent, the most since March 2011.  Shirakawa accelerated the BOJ leadership transition with an
announcement on Feb. 5 that he’ll step down with his two
deputies on March 19, almost three weeks before his term was
due. The Nikkei rose to a more-than-four-year high the next day.  The government should unveil its nominations for the new
BOJ leadership team by the end of February, the ruling Liberal
Democratic Party said last month. While Abe’s coalition has a
majority in the lower house, it will need help from smaller
opposition parties in the upper house for its choices to be
confirmed.  Nomination Timing  Japan’s government will name candidates to succeed
Shirakawa and the two deputy governors before Abe visits the
U.S. later this month, the Sankei newspaper reported today,
without saying where it got the information. Abe will meet U.S.
President Barack Obama on Feb. 21 or Feb. 22, the paper said.   Muto, chairman of the Daiwa Institute of Research, was the
government’s first choice for BOJ governor in 2008, only for his
nomination to be rejected by upper house lawmakers who saw his
finance ministry background as a threat to the bank’s
independence.  He said in an interview last month that he’s changed his
view from 2007, when as a deputy he repeatedly said that keeping
interest rates too low could be problematic. He now says that
ending deflation is the priority.  “If it’s Muto, the market will likely be disappointed, the
yen will strengthen and stocks will fall,” said  Koichi Haji ,
executive director at the NLI Research Institute in Tokyo.
“He’s stable and reliable, but he doesn’t represent the change
that Abe has vowed to make.”  BOJ Policy  The BOJ last month adopted a 2 percent inflation target
without a deadline and said it would wait until 2014 to start
open-ended asset purchases. All 20 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey that closed yesterday expect the central bank to
hold off from more easing at a meeting on Feb. 13-14.  Abe indicated yesterday in parliament that he may seek to
change the law governing the BOJ if the central bank’s policies
are ineffective.  Kuroda, who once wrote that the BOJ should set a 3 percent
inflation target, was a career bureaucrat who rose to be vice
finance minister in charge of currency policy. He has led the
Manila-based ADB since 2005.  Kuroda is “the No. 1 candidate” to head the central bank,
JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. chief economist  Masaaki Kanno 
wrote in a research note last month. He fits the profile
stipulated by Finance Minister  Taro Aso  of having managed a
large organization and international experience, Kanno wrote.  Foreign Bonds  Kazumasa Iwata, head of the Japan Center for Economic
Research, has championed the idea of the central bank buying
foreign-currency bonds to reverse exchange-rate appreciation.
The LDP last year said it would consider the proposal.  Deutsche’s Otani said that  Kikuo Iwata , an economics
professor at Gakushuin University in Tokyo, would be the best
choice for continuing the stock market rally given his views on
monetary policy. Iwata said in an interview last month that the
BOJ should expand the monetary base by doubling the assets in
its current account, while he told LDP lawmakers this month that
monetary policy alone can end deflation.  Kikuo Iwata is among the contenders to head the BOJ,
according to  Koichi Hamada , a retired Yale University economics
professor who is advising Abe on monetary policy.  Consider Takenaka  Yoshimi Watanabe , the leader of the minority Your Party in
parliament, said in an interview last month that his group won’t
back a BOJ insider to be the next central bank governor and the
government should consider former Economy Minister  Heizo Takenaka  for the post. He also indicated that Kuroda should
complete his five-year term through 2016 as head of the ADB.  Still, with signs of a recovery in global demand  --Chinese
exports rose 25 percent in January, government data showed
yesterday -- Nomura Holdings Inc. says that any market reversal
in Japan may be temporary.  “The yen isn’t moving only because of monetary policy
expectations,” said  Tomo Kinoshita , chief economist at Nomura
Holdings in Tokyo. “I see a fair chance the yen will resume its
depreciation even if Abe disappoints with his choice of BOJ
personnel.”  Shirakawa’s exit is part of a global changing of the guard,
with Canada’s  Mark Carney  to take the helm of the Bank of
England in July. In China, Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  will step
down next month, the China Securities Journal said Feb. 2. In
the U.S.,  Janet Yellen  may be a candidate to replace Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  at the Federal Reserve a year from now.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Masahiro Hidaka in Tokyo at 
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  