-- Japan Utilities May Lose Electricity Grid to Consumers’ Benefit
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-02-08T09:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/japan-utilities-may-lose-electricity-grid-to-consumers-benefit.html
Japan took a step toward stripping
its power monopolies of distribution and transmission assets,
potentially lowering electricity prices and giving users a
choice of provider. Except consumers will have to wait.  A government appointed committee today recommended 2018 to
2020 as when the 10 regional utilities, including the biggest
 Tokyo Electric Power Co . and  Kansai Electric Power Co ., should
spin off distribution networks, dismantling a model that helped
rebuild Japan’s economy after World War II.  The plan “would force power companies to compete on
services” including electricity pricing, Hiroshi Takahashi, one
of the panel’s 11 members and a research fellow at  Fujitsu
Research Institute , said today in a phone interview before
release of the report. “Generation and distribution under the
same company means utilities don’t have to improve services
because customers have no choice of supplier.”  The recommendations follow a model in Europe. In 2009, the
European Parliament approved legislation to force utilities to
improve access to their transmission networks. In Germany,  RWE
AG , the country’s second-biggest utility, sold a majority
control in its grid company in 2011, following its competitors
E.ON AG and Vattenfall to satisfy regulators.  After four previous attempts at reforming Japan’s power
market “the regional utilities’ monopoly market structure is
basically unchanged,” according to a draft of recommendations
from the panel headed by  Motoshige Itoh , an economics professor
at the University of Tokyo.  Expensive Power  It also calls for setting up a new regulator by the end of
2015 to police competition among power producers and fully
liberalizing the retail market a year later. The report next
goes to  Toshimitsu Motegi , the Minister of Economy, Trade and
Industry, for review and is subject to change.  The utilities’ control of electricity generation,
distribution and the transmission grid has been cited as one
reason power tariffs in the country of 127 million people are
twice those in the U.S. In response, the utilities have said the
system provides stable power supply.  Since the Fukushima nuclear disaster in 2011, the public
has demanded more independent oversight of the utilities as the
disaster showed Tokyo Electric ignored warnings of earthquake
and tsunami risk. That followed revelations the power producers
falsified maintenance reports for decades.  “It is extremely difficult to make any decision on
revising the organizational structure at this time, as it would
have a tremendous impact on corporate management,” Kansai
Electric President  Makoto Yagi , who also is the chairman of the
the Federation of Electric Power Companies, said in January.  Breakup Cost  Separating distribution may make investors uneasy, making
it more difficult for the power companies to raise funds in
financial markets, the group of Japan’s 10 regional utilities,
warned last month in a report to Itoh’s panel. The restructuring
would cost about 410 billion yen ($4.4 billion), the industry
group estimated in the report.  Breaking up the utilities would probably follow the model
used for Nippon Telegraph and Telephone model, said Takahashi.  NTT, the former government monopoly for domestic phone
services, underwent a state-led reorganization in 1999 and now
operates in a holding company structure made up of five major
units.  “Power companies wouldn’t oppose the spinoff plan if it
didn’t contain substantial change,” said Hidetoshi Shioda, a
Tokyo-based senior analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.  “They are against it because the plan is deliberately
ambiguous. They suspect the reform may not end at this first
step and could lead to second- and third-rounds of reforms”  All the regional utilities that own nuclear reactors
forecast a loss in the year ending March as most nuclear plants
are idled after the Fukushima disaster in 2011. Kansai Electric,
Japan’s most nuclear reliant utility, expects to have a net loss
of 265 billion yen this fiscal year.  Spinning off the utility operations within five to seven
years is “too slow,” Takahashi said. “No other countries
spent such a long time to carry it out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  