-- Japan Posts Back-to-Back Current-Account Deficit in December
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p
-- 2013-02-08T02:24:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/japan-wider-than-forecast-deficit-highlights-challenges-for-abe.html
Japan posted back-to-back monthly
current-account deficits for the first time since 1981,
highlighting challenges for Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe ’s campaign
to revive the economy.  The shortfall in the widest measure of the nation’s trade
was 264.1 billion yen ($2.8 billion) in December, the Ministry
of Finance said in Tokyo today. The median estimate of 23
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a deficit of 144.2
billion yen.  Weakness in global demand, a spat with China and increased
energy imports because of nuclear plant shutdowns are weighing
on the world’s third-biggest economy as  Abe  pushes the Bank of
Japan to end deflation and spur growth. The yen’s slide against
the dollar is offering the prospect of an  export  revival.  “It will be three-to-six months before we see a
substantial pick up in exports,”  Takahiro Sekido , a strategist
in Tokyo at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. who formerly
worked at the Bank of Japan, said before the report. “The
current-account position provides another incentive for Abe to
continue his campaign.”  The yen has depreciated more than 14 percent since mid-
November when the previous government announced an election that
brought Abe to power. The currency was 0.1 percent higher at
93.58 per dollar as of 11:08 a.m. in Tokyo. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average was 1.1 percent lower after falling 0.9 percent
yesterday. The benchmark was headed for its 13th week of gains.  The last consecutive monthly current-account deficit was in
February 1981, according to the ministry. The 2012 annual
current surplus of 4.7 trillion yen was the lowest since at
least 1985, falling 51 percent from the previous year, the
ministry said. The calculation method was changed in 1985,
according to the ministry.  Forecast Raised  Toyota Motor Corp ., the world’s biggest carmaker, on Feb. 5
raised its profit forecast for the year ending in March to a
five-year high as the depreciating yen raises the value of its
cars sold overseas.  Mitsubishi Heavy Industries Ltd . this week
raised its forecast for the same period.  Sony Corp . yesterday announced its eighth straight
quarterly loss on sluggish sales of liquid-crystal display sets,
digital cameras and personal computers.  Japan’s economy shrank in the second and third quarters of
last year. The  median forecast  in a survey of economists by
Bloomberg News is for a 0.4 percent annualized expansion in the
three months through December, up from a 0.6 percent contraction
in a survey last month.  China Dispute  Exports to China in 2012 fell 10.8 percent from 2011, as
slower Chinese growth and a territorial dispute affected a
merchandise trade relationship worth 26.5 trillion yen in 2012,
according to ministry data.  Separately, China’s exports rose a more-than-expected 25
percent in January from a year earlier, the nation’s customs
administration said today in Beijing.  Tokyo Electric Power Co . widened its loss forecast to 120
billion yen for the year ending in March this week as the
shutdown of nuclear power plants and rising prices for energy
imports weigh on the company’s bottom line.  BOJ Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said Feb. 6 he would step
down on March 19, almost three weeks before the end of his term,
accelerating a leadership transition that may boost Abe’s
campaign for aggressive easing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  