-- Japan Vows Foreign-Policy Response to Territorial Incursions
-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2013-02-08T10:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/japan-signals-a-more-robust-stance-over-territorial-incursions.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe 
signaled he will implement a more robust foreign policy in the
midst of disputes with Russia and China that underscore his push
to boost defense spending.  Japan yesterday said two Russian fighter jets intruded on
its airspace, which Russia’s Defense Ministry denied. The
alleged incursion followed accusations that Chinese ships used
weapons-targeting radar on a Japanese destroyer and helicopter
last month near islands claimed by both countries. China today
issued a denial and accused Japan of spreading falsehoods, while
the Foreign Ministry in Tokyo summoned the Chinese ambassador.  “When our sovereignty and national interests are
threatened we must change our foreign policy to firmly express
our point of view,” Abe told parliament today.  An escalating of tensions with Russia may distract Abe as
he copes with a dispute with China that has prolonged Japan’s
recession and brought U.S. calls for a diplomatic solution. The
government is proposing the first increase in Japan’s defense
budget in 11 years to cope with mounting incursions by Chinese
ships and planes into Japanese-administered waters.  Abe this week denounced China’s use of fire-control radar
on Japanese naval targets last month, calling it a “one-sided
provocation.” Yesterday he said the dispute highlighted the
need to keep lines of communications open, adding that summits
are good forums for addressing friction.  ‘Too Silent’  “We’ve been too silent in some ways,” said  Kunihiko Miyake , a professor of international relations at Ritsumeikan
University in Kyoto. Abe’s reaction shows “that by disclosing
the information, he wanted to send a strong warning together
with the rest of the international community that such
provocation cannot be tolerated,” he said.  Two Russian Su-27s flew over Japan’s northern island of
Hokkaido yesterday for more than a minute, the Ministry of
Foreign Affairs said. Russia’s Defense Ministry said in a
statement on its  website  that while jets were in the area as
part of an exercise, they didn’t violate Japanese airspace.  Japanese Defense Minister  Itsunori Onodera  called the
incident “extremely regrettable,” and Chief Cabinet Secretary
 Yoshihide Suga  said the government had protested to Russia and
called on its government to acknowledge the incursion.  China today said its ships didn’t use fire-control radar on
Japan naval forces in the East China Sea last month, and called
Japanese statements on the issue “irresponsible.” Radar was
used simply to monitor a helicopter on Jan. 19 and to track the
Japanese destroyer Yudachi on Jan. 30, the Ministry of Defense
said in a statement posted on its website.  ‘False Information’  “Japan again deliberately spread false information to
smear China’s image and play up the China threat,” Foreign
Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying told reporters in Beijing.
“This has created tension and misled international opinion. We
cannot help but ask what is Japan’s true intention.”  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary  Yoshihide Suga  rejected
China’s explanation as “unacceptable,” and called on the
Chinese government to accept responsibility for the incident.  The Foreign Ministry later said in a statement that it had
summoned Cheng Yonghua, China’s ambassador, to protest the
Chinese response issued through the defense ministry website.  “Japan’s ships have data about the frequency of each
country’s fire-control radar programmed into their electronic
warfare systems,” said Chiaki Akimoto, director of the Tokyo
office of the  Royal United Services Institute  on defense and
security studies. “That particular frequency will automatically
trigger the alarm. So there is zero possibility that it could be
confused with some other kind of radar.”  The incident has undermined efforts to ease tensions
between Asia’s two biggest economies over the territorial
dispute. The uninhabited islands, called Diaoyu in China and
Senkaku in Japan, lie in an area rich in fish, oil and natural
gas. Japan’s purchase of three of the islands in September
prompted violent protests in China that damaged Japanese
businesses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  