-- Jude Law in ‘Side Effects’; Shakespeare in Jail: Movies
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s   a n d   C r a i g   S e l i g m a n
-- 2013-02-09T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/jude-law-in-side-effects-shakespeare-in-jail-movies.html
The quietly bloody opening of  Steven Soderbergh ’s psychiatric-meds melodrama “ Side Effects ” leaves
a horror-movie chill.  Then the picture unfolds so upsettingly that the last thing
I expected was to be laughing my head off by the end.  The title refers specifically to the malign side effects of
prescription antidepressants. A psychiatrist ( Jude Law ) takes on
a suicidal patient ( Rooney Mara ), whose husband ( Channing Tatum )
has just finished a four-year sentence for insider trading.  The shrink puts her on a fictional pill called  Ablixa . The
critique of Big Pharma is implicit throughout: He’s also being
paid $50,000 to enlist guinea pigs for yet another new drug. We
see one patient jump at the chance -- never mind the risks -- as
soon as she finds out it’s free.  The terrific cast includes Vinessa Shaw as Law’s wife, Ann
Dowd as Tatum’s mother and  Catherine Zeta-Jones  with her hair
yanked back in a bun and a bearing hard enough to break teeth.  Thomas Newman ’s initially delicate score draws you in
without directing your feelings at every minute. The demonically
clever script, by Scott Z. Burns, dances dangerously close to
the edge of oh-come-on -- and in retrospect there are a couple
of glitches I can’t account for. But my mind never wandered.  “Side Effects,” from Open Road films, is playing across
the U.S. Rating: **** (Seligman)  ‘Identity Thief’  “ Identity Thief ” gives  Melissa McCarthy  -- the
terrifically likable star of TV’s  “ Mike & Molly ” who stole
“ Bridesmaids ” from its well-toned leading ladies -- her full-
fledged feature-film starring role. But the result is
dispiriting, to say the least.  Co-starring a droll  Jason Bateman , the film features
McCarthy as Diana, a tacky, hair-permed Florida grifter who
funds her shopping mall sprees with scammed credit-card
information.  Her latest victim is Sandy Patterson (Bateman), a
corporate-finance drone in Denver who falls afoul of his boss
and the law when Diana lifts his identity for some shady doings.  The film’s contrivances hit hard and fast, beginning when a
Denver police detective (Morris Chestnut) agrees that, yes,
Sandy should fly to Florida and ask Diane to come to Denver to
clear up all misunderstandings.  With two assassins and a bounty hunter on their trail, the
odd couple bicker and bond on a cross-country drive, sharing
their hearts and surviving a string of ineptly staged chases and
crashes with nary a scratch.  Misunderstood Orphan  Along the way, we’re asked to weep with Diana one moment --
she’s a misunderstood orphan -- and then cringe in disgust (as
Bateman’s Sandy does) at her loud, floor-shaking motel-room romp
with an equally chunky pick-up (Eric Stonestreet).  If “Identity Thief” were funnier or emotionally truer, we
might be willing to overlook its plot holes and loose ends.  The relentless insincerity, though, is one crime too many.  “Identity Thief,” from Universal Pictures, is playing
across the U.S. Rating: ** (Evans)  ‘Lore’  As “ Lore ” opens, an officer in Nazi uniform rushes his
wife and children into hiding. Are they Jews? No, we soon learn,
they’re the opposite: loyal Germans who have reason to be
frightened now that the war is over.  Suddenly, and bewilderingly, the children are on their own.  The movie shows what happens as the adolescent Hannelore
(Saskia Rosendahl) attempts to get herself and her siblings -- a
younger sister, two small twins and a baby boy -- across the
country to the safety of their grandmother’s home near Hamburg.  Deprivation and danger are everywhere, along with
occasional hints of beauty and hope. Thomas (Kai Malina), a
young man with ambiguous motives, offers help.  When Lore learns that he’s carrying Jewish papers, she has
to balance the revulsion born of years of propaganda with her
need for his aid and her attraction to him. It’s a mangled
landscape absent rules and where, as he tells her, everyone has
done something criminal.  Director Cate Shortland (an Australian who has said she
speaks virtually no German), has a very subtle touch, keeping
the action understated and elliptical. You can’t see where it’s
heading until it gets there.  Using few words, she shows how Lore slowly awakens from her
dream of propaganda to the truth of who her parents and their
compatriots really are.  “Lore,” from Music Box Films, is playing in New York and
Los Angeles. Rating: *** (Seligman)  Jailhouse Bard  The high-security wing of Rome’s Rebibbia Prison has had a
drama program since 2000. In their superb “ Caesar Must Die ,”
the brothers Paolo and Vittorio Taviani (“ Padre Padrone ”) use
it to film a modern-dress, modern-language “Julius Caesar.”  With its themes of conspiracy and betrayal, it’s the right
Shakespearean tragedy; most of the actor-prisoners have ties to
organized crime.  They play both their roles and themselves. The film at
first appears to be a documentary about the production.  Only gradually does it become clear that the jokes and
face-offs that interrupt the rehearsals are part of the script,
and that the “rehearsals,” shot all over the prison in the
right scenic order, are the Tavianis’ staging.  The movie lasts just 76 minutes, and every one of them is
intense.  “Caesar Must Die,” from Adopt Films, is in limited
release. Rating: ****1/2  ( Greg Evans  and  Craig Seligman  are critics for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are their own.)  Muse highlights include  Jeremy Gerard  on theater and New
York  Weekend .  To contact the writers on the story: Greg Evans at
 gregeaevans@yahoo.com  and Craig Seligman at
 cseligman@mindspring.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 