-- Macmillan Settles U.S. Antitrust Suit Over E-Book Pricing
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-02-08T20:39:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/justice-deparment-reaches-settlement-with-macmillan-e-books.html
Macmillan, the last publisher left in
a U.S. lawsuit alleging an e-books price-fixing conspiracy with
 Apple Inc. , reached a settlement with the U.S., agreeing to void
deals with retailers that restrict discounting.  The settlement also requires Macmillan to avoid entering
any new restrictive agreements on price or promotions until
December 2014. Macmillan, a unit of Stuttgart, Germany-based
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, also agreed to a
compliance program that includes reporting to the government
communications with other publishers.  The agreement, filed in federal court in Manhattan, will
“immediately allow retailers to lower the prices consumers pay
for Macmillan’s e-books,” Jamillia Ferris, an attorney in the
Justice Department’s antitrust division, said in a statement.  The settlement, if approved by a federal judge in
Manhattan, would mark the end of a lawsuit for publishers
alleging they conspired with Apple to undermine discounter
Amazon.com Inc.’s dominance in the e-books market. The suit
reflected stepped up enforcement against anticompetitive price-
fixing agreements in industries including health care and auto
parts. Regulators have also increased scrutiny of Apple’s
digital publishing, mobile computing and music retail
businesses.  Apple Litigation  The ligation against Apple will continue, the department
said.  Trudy Muller , a spokeswoman for Apple, declined to comment
on the continued litigation.  Separately, U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote  in Manhattan
today gave final approval to a $69 million settlement between 49
states and three of the publishers also named in the Justice
Department complaint --  CBS Corp. ’s Simon & Schuster, Lagardere
SCA’s Hachette Book Group and  News Corp. ’s HarperCollins.  The three settled with the U.S. when the suit was filed on
April 11, while Pearson Plc’s Penguin reached an agreement in
December. The companies named in the federal case are five of
the six largest publishers of trade books in the U.S.  John Sargent , president of Holtzbrinck’s U.S. group, said
in a statement that Macmillan settled “because the potential
penalties became too high to risk even the possibility of an
unfavorable outcome.”  The “breathtaking” liability Macmillan faced was “much
more than the entire equity of our company,” he said.  ‘Harmful’ Discounting  The company resisted settling because doing so called for
“a level of e-book discounting we believed would be harmful to
the industry,” Sargent wrote.  The Justice Department claimed in the suit that consumers
were typically forced to pay as much as $14.99 or more for the
most sought after titles, up from what one of the publisher’s
chief executive officers described as the “wretched $9.99 price
point,” that prevailed before the conspiracy.  The plan was aimed in large part at thwarting  Amazon.com 
Inc., the largest U.S. seller of digital books, which had
triggered an e-book boom by introducing the Kindle e-reader in
2007 and pricing bestselling e-books at $9.99.  At Apple’s suggestion, the publishers agreed to raise
retail prices and give Cupertino, California-based Apple a
30 percent cut, according to the complaint. Amazon was
eventually forced to fall in line.  Drew Herdener , a spokesman for Amazon, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment about the settlement.  States’ Deal  The deal with the states approved today in Manhattan covers
more than 143 million books, including at least 24 million
copies of New York Times best sellers, according to the judge.
More than 22.5 million consumers are expected to receive funds
from the settlement, according to a memorandum filed in the
case. A state settlement for Macmillan was also proposed. Cote
is handling both cases. The states’ case, led by Texas, is
continuing against Penguin and Apple, Texas Attorney General
 Greg Abbott  said in a statement today.  The agreement is “absolutely adequate,” Cote said during
the brief hearing. “I find it provides real value to all
consumers here.”  Macmillan doesn’t admit to violating the law under terms of
the proposed settlement with the Justice Department.  The Justice Department case is U.S. v. Apple, 12-cv-02826,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).
The case brought by states is Texas v. Hachette Book Group Inc.,
1:12-cv-06625, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  ----With assistance from  Christie Smythe  in New York,  Laurel Calkins  in Houston and  Danielle Kucera  in San Francisco.
Editors:  Fred Strasser ,  Stephen Farr   To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  