-- Kenya Bets on Peaceful Vote as Tourists, Exporters Hold Back
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-02-08T06:49:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/kenya-bets-on-peaceful-vote-as-tourists-exporters-hold-back.html
Kenya’s Finance Ministry is betting
on peaceful elections next month to boost investment and
economic growth even as tourists and exporters hold back amid
concern about a renewal of ethnic violence.  Voters go to the polls in the world’s biggest tea-exporting
nation on March 4, the first election since a disputed 2007
presidential ballot triggered two months of clashes that killed
1,100 people died and displaced a further 350,000. Economic
growth slumped by two-thirds to 1.5 percent in 2008 as farmers
were driven from their fields and tourists stayed away.  “A smooth transition would buy a permanent assurance that
we have matured into a solid democracy and attract even more
investors who are in for the long-term,” Economic Secretary
 Geoffrey Mwau  said in an interview. “With a few weeks to go,
there haven’t been acts of violence necessarily associated with
elections or hate speech.”  Kenya has implemented a range of measures since the last
vote to support the economy and ease ethnic tensions, including
investing in roads and power and adopting a new constitution
that will devolve power to county governments. That’s helped to
support investor sentiment, encouraging companies such as  Toyota
Motor Corp. ,  Google Inc. ,  Visa Inc . and  Pfizer Inc.  to create
their regional hubs in Kenya.  Concern that violence may flare up during the elections
threatens to derail investor confidence. Some businesses, mainly
local ones, have delayed investment decisions, according to the
Kenya Private Sector Alliance, or Kepsa.  Party Primaries  Political and ethnic clashes in the south-eastern Tana
River delta region and elsewhere killed 450 people since last
year, according to the United Nations. The spate of violence
between the Pokomo and the Orma communities in Tana River
erupted in August in a dispute over grazing land and water.
Violence also marred party primaries last month when candidates
were selected for the six-office vote.  The shilling has declined 1.6 percent against the dollar
this year as businesses accumulate dollars ahead of the
elections. The currency gained 0.2 percent to 87.51 per dollar
by 9:06 a.m. in Nairobi.  Companies are saying they “may not expand as fast, or
invest as much before the elections,” said  Carole Kariuki ,
chief executive officer of Kepsa, which represents businesses in
Kenya. “Some investors are saying they have everything ready to
go right after the elections.”  Flower Exports  Farms that supply a third of the flowers sold in Europe are
accelerating output ahead of Mother’s Day celebrations, which in
the U.K. falls on March 10 and in North America on May 12,
according to the Kenya Flower Council.  Bookings by tourists, the second-biggest source of foreign-
exchange income after tea, have fallen by as much as a fifth at
the most popular coastal tourist destinations this year compared
with 12 months ago, according to the Mombasa and Coast Tourist
Association.  Prime Minister  Raila Odinga  is seeking to replace President
 Mwai Kibaki , who is stepping down after his two-term limit.
Odinga’s closest challenger is Deputy Prime Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta , the son of Kenya’s first president,  Jomo Kenyatta . In
the last election, supporters of Odinga, an ethnic Luo, clashed
with members of the Kikuyu community to which Kenyatta belongs.
The violence ended when Kibaki signed a peace accord that
installed Odinga as prime minister.  Oil Discovery  Kenya has benefited from the first discovery of crude made
by London-based  Tullow Oil Plc  and partner  Africa Oil Corp.  in
March, boosting foreign inflows. The economy will probably
expand “slightly above” 5 percent this year, Mwau said in a
phone interview on Feb. 5. That compares with about 4.5 percent
in 2012 and 7 percent in 2007, and remains below the
government’s 10 percent target by 2017.  Kibaki has ordered security forces to ensure this year’s
elections are peaceful, while companies including  Safaricom
Ltd. , the country’s biggest mobile-phone operator, are appealing
for voters to reject fighting through text messaging. The local
Umati project is monitoring social media and blogs for hate
speech and incitement.  The election outcome itself is a source of concern. The
International Criminal Court in The Hague accuses Kenyatta along
with his running mate  William Ruto , a lawmaker, of directing
some of the clashes five years ago and ordered them to stand
trial in April. They both deny the charges.  Sanctions Threat  Kenya may face international sanctions and diplomatic
isolation if Kenyatta and Ruto are voted into office and fail to
cooperate with the ICC, according to analysts including  Aly-Khan Satchu , chief executive officer of Nairobi-based investment
company Rich Management Ltd.  The lack of accountability for lower level perpetrators who
murdered, raped and forcibly displaced people in post-election
violence in 2007-08 is creating tension, New York-based Human
Rights Watch said today in a report based on 225 interviews
across the country. The public prosecutor’s office in Kenya
verified 24 convictions as of August out of 6,081 police files
connected to the clashes.  “The victims of violence feel that justice has passed them
by and the people who caused the violence feel protected from
the law,” Daniel Bekele, Africa director at Human Rights Watch,
said in the report. “This is a dangerous cocktail for the
approaching elections.”  For now, Fitch Ratings is signaling the vote may provide a
positive outcome for investors.  The risk of a repeat of the 2007 violence in Kenya is
“moderate,” it said on Feb. 6. Fitch rates Kenya at B+, four
levels below investment grade and on par with Zambia and Ghana.  “Smooth elections that bring continued stability and a
favorable impact on the investment climate would bolster
creditworthiness,” Fitch said. “A repeat of the violence seen
in early 2008 would be a major setback.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  