-- Kerry Vows Swift Keystone Action After Meeting Canadian
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2013-02-09T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/kerry-vows-swift-keystone-action-after-meeting-canadian.html
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry 
met with his Canadian counterpart for the first time yesterday
and said he will decide soon on the fate of  TransCanada Corp .’s
Keystone XL pipeline.  “We hope that we will be able to be in a position to make
an announcement in the near term,” Kerry said after the meeting
in Washington with Canadian Foreign Minister  John Baird , who
stood with Kerry and called the pipeline a priority for his
nation. Kerry took office Feb. 4.  Keystone XL would carry 830,000 barrels of crude a day from
Canada’s oil sands and shale fields in North Dakota to
refineries on the U.S. Gulf Coast. Critics say the pipeline will
add more greenhouse gases than most conventional oil drilling.
Keystone backers say the project will create jobs and make the
U.S. less dependent on oil from less friendly sources  A rejection of the project by President Barack Obama’s
administration would exacerbate the bottleneck of shipments from
Alberta’s oil sands. A shortage of pipeline capacity and rising
output has widened the gap between heavy Canadian crude, which
is among the cheapest in the world, and a U.S. benchmark.  “The Keystone XL pipeline is a huge priority for our
government and for the Canadian economy,” Baird said. “And I
appreciated the dialogue we had on what we can do to tackle
environmental challenges together.”  The State Department is reviewing the route proposed by
Calgary-based TransCanada because the line crosses an
international border. A decision on approving the pipeline rests
with  Obama , who in his inaugural address last week pledged to
act on climate change.  Kerry, who promised to conduct an “open and transparent”
review of the pipeline, declined to discuss details of the
project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  