-- Kerry Says Up to Iran to End Nuclear Dispute Peacefully
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2013-02-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/kerry-says-up-to-iran-to-end-nuclear-dispute-peacefully.html
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said
Iran must decide whether it wants to resolve the dispute over
its nuclear program through negotiations, warning that President
 Barack Obama  is “prepared to do whatever is necessary” to stop
the Islamic Republic from getting an atomic weapon.  Kerry, in his first comments on Iran since becoming the top
U.S. diplomat a week ago, yesterday described as “disturbing”
Iran’s announced plans to install additional advanced
centrifuges to produce more enriched uranium, which could be
used to fuel a weapon.  Kerry signaled his desire for a negotiated settlement with
Iran, while warning that the U.S. is committed to preventing
that nation from acquiring a nuclear weapon. His comments come 2
1/2 weeks before negotiators from the U.S., Europe, China and
Russia are set to meet Iranians to resume talks after what will
have been an eight-month lapse.  “I want to underscore to Iran: The window for diplomacy is
still open,” Kerry said, using his first press conference at
the State Department to remind Iran’s leaders of the Obama
administration’s position. “The choice is really ultimately up
to Iran. The international community is ready to respond if Iran
comes prepared to talk real substance.”  It was the first high-level U.S. response after Iran’s
Supreme Leader Ayatollah  Ali Khamenei  appeared to spurn an offer
by Vice President  Joe Biden  for direct talks between the U.S.
and Iran on the sidelines of the international meeting in
Almaty, Kazakhstan, set for Feb. 26.  ‘Under Threats’  “The U.S. holds a gun at Iran and says we need to
negotiate,” Khamenei, the highest authority and ultimate
decision maker in the Islamic Republic’s affairs, said Feb. 7 at
a meeting of his air force commanders. “They say the ball is in
Iran’s court. The ball is in your court, and you need to answer:
What is it worth” for Iran “to negotiate under threats and in
the absence of good intentions?”  Iran may come to the table in Kazakhstan demanding relief
from financial, energy and trade-related sanctions imposed by
the U.S., the European Union and the United Nations. The Obama
administration and its European allies have added dozens of
penalties since December 2011 in an effort to squeeze Iran
economically and persuade its leaders to abandon illicit aspects
of the country’s nuclear program.  In talks that ended in June last year, Iran complained that
the international community wasn’t offering strong enough
incentives to secure Iran’s agreement to stop producing medium-
enriched uranium and ship it out of the country.  Dual-Track Policy  Advocates of tough sanctions have expressed concern that a
second-term Obama administration might weaken oil-related
sanctions in its eagerness to secure a deal. Administration
critics have also suggested that Kerry and Obama’s choice for
defense secretary,  Chuck Hagel , will be softer on Iran than
their predecessors.  Kerry’s remarks showed no indication of a willingness to
ease the penalties. He said the U.S. will “continue our dual-
track policy of both pressure and engagement.”  He also called “disturbing” Iran’s announcement last
month to the United Nations’ atomic energy agency that it’s
installing advanced IR-2m centrifuges that can enrich more
uranium in less time. The U.K. and Russia were among the nations
that denounced the move, demanding that Iran freeze its uranium
enrichment in line with UN Security Council orders.  Oil Trade  On Feb. 6, a new set of U.S. sanctions took effect
requiring countries that import Iranian crude, including China,
Japan and India, to pay for oil in local currency that Iran must
spend on goods and services in that country. The measures took
effect half a year since the U.S. began requiring oil-buying
nations to “significantly reduce” their purchases of Iranian
crude to avoid being expelled from the U.S. banking system.  Iran exported 1.2 million barrels of crude a day in
December, with China, South Korea, Japan and India accounting
for 84 percent of those sales, the Paris-based International
Energy Agency said in a Jan. 18 report. Sales were less than
half of what Iran shipped on average in the first 10 months of
2011, according to the IEA.  While expectations are low that this month’s nuclear talks
will yield an agreement, the U.S. and the five other nations
involved are keen to keep negotiations going in hopes that
Iran’s leaders will conclude that a nuclear weapons capability
isn’t worth the price to the economy.  Kerry said yesterday that while “we are prepared to let
diplomacy be the victor in this confrontation,” it is Iran that
has “to prove to the world that it is peaceful” by meeting the
UN’s requirements to scale back its program.  If a diplomatic solution isn’t possible, Kerry said, Obama
“is prepared to do whatever is necessary to make certain that
Iran does not have a nuclear weapon.”  The U.S., its European allies and Israel say Iran is using
its nuclear activities as a cover for a covert atomic weapons
program. Iran says its program is for civilian energy and
medical research.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  