-- TXU Bonds Plunge as Advisers Hired, Restructuring Approaches
-- B y   P a u l   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2013-02-08T22:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/kkr-s-energy-future-bonds-fall-on-restructuring-of-biggest-lbo.html
Bonds of the Texas electricity
provider formerly known as TXU Corp. plummeted to the lowest
level on record before a potential restructuring of the debt
raised to fund the largest leveraged buyout in history.  The $1.83 billion of 10.25 percent bonds due November 2015
issued by  Energy Future Holdings Corp. ’s unregulated Texas
Competitive Electric Holdings Co. fell 9.3 cents to 15 cents on
the dollar at 8:58 a.m. in New York, according to Trace, the
bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. That’s the lowest level the notes have traded since
they were issued in December 2008.  Energy Future retained law firm Kirkland & Ellis LLP to
help restructure its debt load, and the private-equity firm KKR
& Co. that partly owns the company hired Blackstone Group LP,
according to a person familiar with the situation, who asked not
to be identified, citing lack of authorization to speak
publicly. The Wall Street Journal  reported  the hires yesterday
on its website.  Energy Future, based in Dallas, has also tapped Evercore
Partners Inc. as an adviser, according to a person familiar with
the matter. The Journal earlier today reported the hiring of
Evercore and Miller Buckfire & Co.  Seven Losses  Allan Koenig, a spokesman at Energy Future, said the
company doesn’t comment on the identities of its specific
advisers.  Pete Rose , a spokesman at Blackstone, Kristi Huller at
KKR and Kate Slaasted of Chicago-based Kirkland & Ellis declined
to comment.  Energy Future has  $47.2 billion of debt , data compiled by
Bloomberg show, after being taken private by KKR, TPG Capital
and Goldman Sachs Capital Partners in 2007.  The company has struggled to be profitable ever since the
LBO, as the shale revolution created a glut of natural gas,
pushing U.S. prices to the lowest since 1999 last year. It has
posted seven consecutive quarterly losses and had $37.4 billion
of long-term borrowings as of Sept. 30.  Energy Future’s 2012 net loss widened to $2.17 billion from
$1.91 billion the previous year as revenue fell, the company
said Jan. 22 in a filing of preliminary results with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The company is due to
publish fourth-quarter results on Feb. 15  The 2012 loss doesn’t include non-cash charges that may
result from impairment to goodwill or intangible assets, the
company said.  ‘Big Mistake’  Energy Future  has sought to protect the profitable part of
its company from a potential restructuring at its unregulated
unit by paying off intercompany loans and extending and amending
debt maturities amid a slump in electricity prices.  Creditors agreed to exchange $1.37 billion of Energy
Future’s bonds and to amend rules governing its securities to
shift liabilities, the company said Jan. 9.  Billionaire investor  Warren Buffett  said a year ago that
his $2 billion investment in Energy Future in 2007 was at risk
of being wiped out. He wrote down holdings related to the
company for the past three years and has called the investment
“a big mistake.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Paul Armstrong in London at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  