-- Nampak Targets Bigger Share of S. African Glass Market
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-02-13T06:08:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/nampak-targets-bigger-market-share-of-south-african-glass-market.html
(Corrects extent of production increase in first paragraph
of story published on Feb. 8)  Nampak Ltd. , South Africa’s largest
packaging company, plans to boost production capacity at its
glassmaking unit by January 2014 as it seeks to become a more
dominant player in its domestic market.  The Johannesburg-based company will add a third furnace to
its existing glass production line at a cost of 1 billion rand
($110 million), to boost output to 300,000 metric tons from
200,000 tons, Graham Hayward, the company’s investor relations
manager, said in a phone interview today. “We have a 20 percent
market share on the glass side in South Africa. Some customers
want us to become a bigger supplier,” he said.  Production of cans will increase by almost one billion
units after investment in a new high speed aluminum line,
Hayward said. “The conversion process is from tinplate to
aluminum. It will help increase recycling,” he said. The
combined cost of the glass and tin projects will be 1.6 billion
rand, Nampak said in an earlier statement.  The  shares  closed 1 percent higher at 31.95 rand in
Johannesburg trading. The stock has gained 0.3 percent this
year, compared with a 4.2 percent advance in the  164 company
FTSE/JSE All Share Index .  Nampak said hot weather in South Africa had resulted in
strong demand for canned beverages over recent months, while
spending on other consumer goods had been more subdued. Even
with challenging economic conditions in South Africa, Nampak
remains “confident of a further improvement in performance in
2013,” it said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  