-- Natural Gas May Drop as Nor’easter Gives Way to Milder Weather
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-02-08T12:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/natural-gas-may-drop-as-nor-easter-gives-way-to-milder-weather.html
Natural gas futures may slide next
week on speculation that milder weather in the eastern U.S. will
follow a snowstorm heading into this weekend.  Six of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg survey, or 50 percent,
said futures will decline on the New York Mercantile Exchange
through Feb. 15. Five, or 42 percent, predicted gas will rise
and one said prices will stay the same. Last week, 57 percent of
participants said gas would decrease this week.  The winter storm in the Northeast will give way to above-
normal temperatures over the next six to 10 days, MDA Weather
Services in Gaithersburg, Maryland said. Gas prices fell 3.9
percent yesterday after a government report showed a U.S.
stockpile decline last week that was below analyst forecasts. A
supply drop a week earlier was also below expectations.  “We had a pretty strong selloff in response to the second
disappointing draw,” said  Aaron Calder , senior market analyst
at Gelber & Associates in Houston. “There is going to be
another small draw next week because temperatures were even
warmer than last week.”  Natural gas fell 1.6 cents, or 0.5 percent, to $3.285 per
million British thermal units this week in New York. The futures
have dropped 2 percent this year.  Forecasts showing a return to colder weather in the second
half of February may give bullish investors a chance to push
prices higher, Calder said.  Supply Report  U.S.  inventories  fell by 118 billion cubic feet to 2.684
trillion in the week ended Feb. 1, below the five-year average
drop of 165 billion for the period, the Energy Information
Administration said yesterday. Analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg showed a decline of 127 billion.  A  supply surplus  to the five-year average expanded to 15
percent from 12.2 percent the previous week, the most since the
week ended July 20, EIA data show. A  deficit  versus year-earlier
levels widened to 7.8 percent from 6.7 percent, the most since
July 1, 2011. The previous winter was the fourth-warmest on
record in the lower 48 states,  crimping heating-fuel demand .  The gas survey has correctly forecast the direction of
prices 50 percent of the time since its June 2004 introduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  