-- Ambow Leads ADR Slump to Cheapest Level: China Overnight
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l   a n d   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2013-02-10T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/netease-jumps-on-upgrade-as-ambow-sinks-china-overnight.html
Ambow Education Holding Ltd.  is
leading a decline in Chinese education providers listed in the
U.S., trading at its cheapest-ever level as investors wait for
updates on earnings and an internal probe.  American depositary receipts of Ambow sank 8.2 percent to
$1.35 Feb. 8 in New York, trading at a record-low 2.1 times
estimated earnings. The stock has plummeted 40 percent in 2013,
the biggest decline on the  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of
the most-traded Chinese stocks in the U.S.  Tal Education Group 
has lost 4.5 percent, while  New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. , China’s biggest private education company, is down
13 percent.  Ambow last reported earnings in July, when it posted a
$12.7 million net loss for the first quarter. As a so-called
foreign private issuer, the Beijing-based company isn’t required
to file quarterly  financial results , according to spokeswoman
Mandy Li. Ambow’s valuation compares with an average of 13 times
forward earnings for the China-US gauge.  “When the stock goes so low, people decide it’s not worth
owning anymore and they just get rid of it,”  Trace Urdan , a
senior analyst at Wells Fargo & Co. in San Francisco, said by
phone Feb. 8. “People are concerned about what the real
fundamental earnings of the company are.”  The Bloomberg China-US gauge fell 4.2 percent last week,
the steepest slump since May.  Suntech Power Holdings Co.  sank 15 percent as Raymond James
& Associates Inc. said in a Feb. 6 note that shares of the
world’s largest solar-panel maker may plunge 50 percent in the
next two months.  Baidu Inc.  lost 11 percent, the largest weekly
drop since August, as China’s most-used search engine reporting
the smallest profit increase since 2009 spurred analysts to cut
price targets on the stock.  Internal Probe  Ambow sank 23 percent last week, while New Oriental slid
3.6 percent. Beijing-based Tal Education gained 7.6 percent, the
first weekly advance in three weeks.  Ambow  said  July 5 that it would conduct an internal
investigation into allegations by a former employee of financial
impropriety and wrongful conduct in connection with the purchase
of a training school in 2008. The company said in a filing that
it wouldn’t comment until the probe was complete.  “It shouldn’t be the case that the investigation should
prevent them from reporting because there are other companies
that are conducting internal investigations that have reported
earnings,” said Urdan, who has the equivalent of a buy rating
on Ambow. “When you list in the U.S. it’s certainly the
expectation that you will supply quarterly earnings.”  Sales Estimates  Ambow spokeswoman Li declined to comment on the internal
investigation and whether it has had an impact on the timing of
earnings statements when contacted by e-mail Jan. 30. The
company is obliged to report results by the end of April, she
said.  A foreign company listed on a U.S. exchange must file
annual reports and register each public offering of securities
in the U.S.,  according to  the Securities & Exchange Commission’s
website. Interim reporting is done based on the practice of the
company’s home country and exchange, the SEC said.  Revenue for Ambow grew 12 percent last year to 1.97 billion
yuan ($316 million), according to the mean of two analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg, from 1.76 billion yuan in 2011.
Adjusted earnings-per-share was 2.36 yuan last year, according
to estimates, down 39 percent.  Investors should avoid Ambow ADRs, even though the stock is
cheap, until the company can show that it has reined in
spending, according to  Craig Sterling , an analyst at EVA
Dimensions who rates Ambow the equivalent of buy.  ‘Destroying Value’  “They’re destroying lots of value because they keep
spending money on capital and they’re just not getting as much
incremental sales,” Sterling said by phone Feb. 8. “It’s not a
cheap stock because it’s a good company, it’s lack of
confidence, definitely.”  Cisco Systems Inc., the world’s biggest maker of computer-
networking equipment, sold its investment in Ambow last year,
after holding 7.35 percent of the company in 2011, a  filing  from
the San Jose, California-based technology company showed Feb. 8.  New Oriental , also based in Beijing, reported Jan. 29 a net
loss of $15.8 million for the three months ended Nov. 30.  Tal
Education  projected Jan. 22 that revenue for the quarter through
February will rise to $60 million, short of the mean analyst
estimate for $64.3 million.  ‘Slowing Down’  Education in China “is such a huge market, demand has
never been a problem,”  Ella Ji , an analyst with Oppenheimer &
Co. in New York, said by phone Jan. 29. “Everyone is realizing
that just opening centers aggressively without caring about the
bottom line is not sustainable, and so the entire industry is
slowing down.”  Suntech dropped to $1.45 in New York Feb. 8, capping its
weekly biggest slump since September. Citigroup Inc. rated the
company, based in China’s Jiangsu province, a sell in new
coverage. They set a price target of $1.50, citing concerns over
issues including a lack of financial reporting and liquidity.  Baidu’s ADRs slid to $96.86 Feb.8, posting the steepest
weekly loss since August. The Beijing-based Internet company,
facing competition from new search engines in China, said Feb. 4
that first-quarter revenue may be as little as $945.4 million,
below the $969 million mean of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. More than 10 analysts who cover Baidu reduced
their price targets during the week.  ETF Retreats  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the largest Chinese
 exchange-traded fund  in the U.S., lost 4.7 percent to $39.85
last week, the steepest retreat since June. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  rose 0.3 percent to 1,517.93 in its sixth
weekly advance.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  slipped 0.3 percent
Feb. 8 to 11,649.78, for a weekly retreat of 4.6 percent, the
biggest slump since May. The  Shanghai Composite  completed its
second straight week of gains, up 0.6 percent to 2,432.40.  Shanghai trading is closed next week for the Lunar New Year
holiday, while Hong Kong will be shut for the first three days
of the week.  ADRs of  3SBio Inc.  jumped 6.9 percent Feb. 8 in New York to
$14.74, the highest level since March 30. The Shenyang, China-
based biotechnology company said that it had agreed to be taken
private by merging with Decade Sunshine Ltd. for $2.20 a share
and $15.40 per ADR, according to a PR Newswire statement.  3SBio joins a growing number of Chinese companies seeking
to delist from U.S. exchanges after concern about corporate
governance depressed valuations. Focus Media Holding Ltd., a
Shanghai-based advertising company which short sellers said
overstated its ad network, agreed to be bought in December for
$3.7 billion in China’s largest leveraged buyout.  NetEase Inc. , a Beijing-based web games developer, surged
to $51.99 last week, the highest price since November. Its 10
percent weekly rally was the biggest among companies on the
China-US gauge. Deutsche Bank AG analyst  Alex Yao  raised his
recommendation on NetEase to buy from hold Feb. 8, and boosted
the price target to $58 from $51.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net ;
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  