-- News Corp. Faces 100 Hacking Claims as It Offers Apologies
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   J e r e m y   H o d g e s
-- 2013-02-08T13:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/news-corp-faces-100-hacking-claims-as-it-offers-more-apologies.html
News Corp.  faces as many as 100 more
lawsuits over tabloid phone hacking, lawyers said at a London
court hearing as the company formally apologized to  Hugh Grant 
and  Sarah Ferguson  to resolve their claims.  While the company has settled 144 cases since November,
lawsuits will continue to be filed as police notify more
victims,  Hugh Tomlinson , a lawyer for claimants, said in court
today. Tomlinson spoke at a hearing where the publisher’s
lawyers again read out detailed apologies to celebrities and
other public figures whose voice mail was intercepted by the
News of the World tabloid.  News Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch  closed the newspaper in
July 2011 in response to public anger over revelations it
intercepted the mobile-phone messages of murdered schoolgirl
Milly Dowler a decade ago. Prosecutors overseeing criminal cases
against some of the tabloid’s ex-employees have said the title
victimized more than 600 people between 2000 and 2006.  A civil trial on the claims is scheduled for June for about
two dozen cases that haven’t been settled. Tomlinson said six
new claimants will seek to join the trial today.  The publisher, News International, has resolved about 700
claims by victims, including more than 200 settlements approved
by a judge and hundreds of others that used an out-of-court
process created by the company about two years ago. Police have
said the tabloid had thousands of “potential victims,” though
the level of evidence varies.  Hacking, Surveillance  As part of its settlement of Grant’s case, News Corp.
agreed it intercepted his voice mail starting in 2004, placed
him under surveillance and collected “significant” telephone
numbers. The resulting tabloid articles prompted Grant, who
starred in the comedy “Notting Hill,” to mistrust some friends
and acquaintances in the past because he suspected leaks,
according to the apology read in court.  Ferguson, the former wife of  Prince Andrew , actor
 Christopher Eccleston  and singer Kerry Katona also received
apologies as part of their settlements today. News International
also paid undisclosed sums to the victims.  Each written apology included details about the hacking.
Ferguson’s said she experienced “unusual activity” on her
mobile phone from 2000 to 2006, and photographers frequently
knew her whereabouts at private events.  Jade Goody  Jeff Brazier, a former professional soccer player and
reality-TV star, said the tabloid’s hacking of his phone had
caused distrust in his relationship with fellow reality-TV star
Jade Goody, who died in 2009, according to the apology filed in
court.  Brazier “is very distressed that he can now never
apologize to Ms. Goody for the times that he did not believe her
despite her denials that she was the source of particular
private information in the public domain,” according to the
apology.  While most settlement amounts have been confidential, the
company paid as much as 600,000 pounds ($948,000) to the Welsh
singer  Charlotte Church , including 300,000 pounds in legal
costs, and 130,000 pounds to actor  Jude Law .  Richard Reardon, the priest for Church, also settled his
Claim today. “The sacrosanct relationship between a priest and a
parishioner has been violated,” according to the apology.  The Dowler family, whose daughter was murdered a decade
ago, received an in-person apology from Murdoch and 3 million
pounds, including 1 million pounds for a charity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  