-- Nissan Profit Misses Estimates on China Slump, U.S. Models
-- B y   M a   J i e   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2013-02-08T09:03:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/nissan-profit-misses-estimates-on-china-slump-u-s-models.html
Nissan Motor Co. , Japan’s second-
biggest carmaker, reported third-quarter profit that fell short
of analysts’ estimates, after sales tumbled in China and new
models trailed competitors in the U.S.  Net income dropped 35 percent to 54.1 billion yen ($581
million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, from 82.7 billion
yen a year earlier, the Yokohama, Japan-based company said in a
statement today. That missed the 59.7 billion yen average of
eight analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Nissan kept its
full-year earnings forecasts unchanged.  The results illustrate how the territorial dispute between
China and Japan is overshadowing the benefits from a weaker yen
for Nissan Chief Executive Officer  Carlos Ghosn , who has
repeatedly called for further yen depreciation. The automaker
was also hurt after sales of the new Altima, its bestseller in
the U.S., trailed the Camry and Honda Motor Co.’s Accord.  “Nissan has a big exposure in China and was hit hard by
the protests,” said  Kota Yuzawa , an analyst at  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.  “In the U.S., unfortunately because of the
incentives war, the sales volume of new models is lower than the
company’s expectation and my expectation.”  Nissan fell 0.6 percent to close at 987 yen in Tokyo
trading before the earnings announcement. The stock has gained
22 percent this year, compared with the 7.3 percent advance in
the Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Missed Expectations  “Nissan’s performance in the third quarter did not meet
our expectations,” Ghosn said in the statement. “Looking
forward, we have important vehicle launches. We anticipate
further yen correction.”  Still, the automaker kept its average exchange-rate
assumptions for the fiscal year at 79.7 yen to the dollar and
101.8 yen to the euro.  The Japanese currency, trading near its lowest levels in
more than two years, may end the year at 93 versus the dollar,
according to the median of forecasts compiled by Bloomberg, as
Abe’s administration seeks to fight deflation and revive Asia’s
second-largest economy.  Tumbling Yen  The yen began tumbling in November as Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe -- then running for office -- called for “bold monetary
policy” to beat deflation and drive down the value of the yen.
The Japanese currency this week fell to 94.06 per dollar for the
first time since May 2010, on speculation Japan’s government
will select a new central bank chief committed to boosting
monetary easing.  Nissan gains about 20 billion yen in operating profit with
every one-yen drop against the dollar, according to the company.  Toyota Motor Corp. , the world’s largest carmaker, this week
raised its profit forecast 10 percent to a five-year high of 860
billion yen, as a weakening yen raised the profits of Japanese
cars sold overseas. The company also increased its estimate for
operating income by 9.5 percent and revenue by 2.3 percent.  China Sales  Bucking the trend, Honda lowered its full-year net income
forecast by 1.3 percent to 370 billion yen, citing a slower-
than-expected recovery in sales in China and weakness in
European demand.  Nissan’s sales in China fell 5.3 percent to 1.18 million
units in 2012 and slumped by more than 30 percent in the
October-to-December quarter, as consumers shunned Japanese
products over the disputed islets known as Senkaku in Japanese
and Diaoyu in Chinese. Last year’s sales decline was the first
annual drop since at least 2007, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Nissan is more affected than other Japanese automakers by a
slump in China because it sells about one in four of its
vehicles in the world’s largest vehicle market and has the
largest proportion of sales there among its peers.  North America  Nissan has resumed two-shift production in China, showroom
traffic has recovered and now exceeds last year’s levels,
Corporate Vice President  Joji Tagawa  said in a briefing in
Yokohama today.  The automaker has warned the dispute between Asia’s largest
two economies could force the company to review its future
investment plans in China.  Nissan’s global sales in 2012 rose 5.8 percent to 4.94
million vehicles, led by an increase in demand in the U.S.,
Japan and emerging markets including Indonesia and Brazil.  Operating profit in North America reached 26.5 billion yen
in the third quarter, compared with the 62.5 billion average of
four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Too Bullish  In the U.S., where Nissan introduced revamped models
including Altima sedans, Pathfinder sport utility vehicles and
Sentra compact sedans, sales of the new products fell short of
the expected profits because of initial supply delays and high
incentives, Goldman’s Yuzawa said.  “We were very bullish in setting the sales target in the
beginning, but in reality the sales were below our
expectations,” said Nissan’s Tagawa. “Now the production
confusions in the U.S. have been solved. Contribution from the
new models will be shown in the fourth quarter.”  The average incentive for every vehicle sold in the U.S.,
the carmaker’s biggest profit generator, rose 6.6 percent to
$2,746 last year, compared with $1,804 at Toyota and $2,206 at
Honda, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  In the mid-sized car segment, Nissan delivered 302,934
units of the Altima, the company’s best-selling model in the
U.S., compared with 331,872 units for Honda’s Accord and 404,886
units for Toyota’s Camry, Autodata said.  Customer Loyalty  “The competitiveness of rivals, such as the high loyalty
of Camry users and the Accord, which was fundamentally bolstered
to rave reviews, is superior,”  Takaki Nakanishi , an auto
analyst at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in Tokyo, wrote in a
report in January. “We have to say that expectations, including
ours and Nissan’s, were too high.”  The Altima in 2011 overtook the Accord as the second-best
selling car in the U.S. behind Camry. Nissan sales in the U.S.
rose 9.5 percent to a record 1.14 million last year.  Nissan beat estimates for Europe, where it posted operating
profit of 92 million yen in the third quarter, compared with the
1.18 billion-yen loss average of four analyst estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Profitable Europe  In Europe, Ghosn said in December he expected the market to
decline about three percent in 2013 as the region grapples with
excess capacity. Nissan’s deliveries in Europe fell 2.4 percent
to 678,697 vehicles in Europe last year.  In Japan, operating profit reached 17.2 billion yen in the
third quarter, compared with the 24.3 billion yen average of
four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Nissan’s Japan vehicle deliveries rose 12 percent to
659,756 units last year, helped by the government’s subsidies
for buyers of fuel-efficient cars.  “Japan is very difficult to forecast because we are
looking forward to what kind of initiative they are going to
take in order to sustain consumption,” Ghosn told reporters in
December. “Without any intervention from the government, Japan
will very likely to contract next year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  