-- Nokia Profit Spurs Biggest Sale of Structured Notes in 14 Years
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-02-08T10:24:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/nokia-profit-spurs-biggest-sale-of-structured-notes-in-14-years.html
Banks are selling the most structured
notes tied to  Nokia Oyj  in at least 14 years after the Finnish
mobile-phone maker posted its first quarterly profit since the
start of 2011.  ING Groep NV , SEB AB and Nordea Bank AB sold a total of
$43.5 million of notes tied to Espoo, Finland-based Nokia in
January, the most in any month recorded by Bloomberg since 1999.
Banks including Citigroup Inc. and Commerzbank AG also issued
2,222 certificates and warrants tied to the company’s stock, 46
times more than in the same period last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Elop  helped Nokia return to
profit in the fourth quarter after pushing through a series of
cost cuts, including eliminating 20,000 jobs and skipping a
dividend payment for the first time in at least 143 years. The
moves signaled to investors the junk-rated company’s revival is
starting to gain pace, despite falling revenue and competition
from Apple Inc. and Google Inc.  “Nokia is always a popular name for structured notes, but
the company’s positive results in January led to exceptional
demand,” said  Antti Parviainen , Helsinki-based head of
investment products for Finland at Nordea.  ING sold 10 million euros ($13.5 million) of five-year
credit-linked notes linked to Nokia in two offerings on Jan. 31,
paying 6 percent and 6.5 percent. Nordea raised 20 million euros
by selling two notes linked to the company in the month. It also
raised another 10 million euros from a security tied to the debt
of five European corporates including Nokia, Bloomberg data
show.  Citigroup Warrants  Citigroup issued 574 securities in January tied to Nokia.
They included put warrants where buyers profit if shares drop as
low as 2.4 euros, and call warrants, which benefit from a rise
in the share price, according to Bloomberg data. Nokia was at
 3.04 euros  at 10:35 a.m. in Helsinki.  James Etheridge , a spokesman for Nokia, declined to comment
on structured notes linked to the company.  Sales of credit-linked notes tied to Nokia are smaller than
for other European corporates, including ArcelorMittal and Metro
AG, Germany’s biggest retailer. Securities tied to French
insurer Axa SA totaled $410.5 million this year, more than for
any other corporate, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  