-- Nordic Next-Year Power Climbs to Three-Week High on Carbon Price
-- B y   T o r s t e n   F a g e r h o l m
-- 2013-02-08T14:38:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/nordic-power-price-rises-most-in-three-weeks-on-carbon-cold.html
Nordic electricity for next year rose
to a three-week high, tracking gains in carbon.  Power for 2014 climbed 1.8 percent to a three-week high of
37.35 euros ($50) a megawatt-hour as of 3:10 p.m. on Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc.’s energy exchange in Oslo. EU carbon permits for
December jumped as much as 9.5 percent to 4.60 euros a metric
ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. Emission
prices can influence generating costs at coal and natural gas-
fed plants.  “Together with firmer coal prices, carbon underpins German
power and offers support to the Nordic 2014 contract,”  Erik Svensson , head of financial trading at Swedish energy trading
company Modity Energy Trading AB, said today by phone from Lund.  Coal for delivery next year in northwest Europe rose as
much as 1.5 percent to $101.10 a ton, its biggest jump since
Jan. 2, according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg. Workers
at Cerrejon, Colombia’s biggest coal mine, went on strike
yesterday.  Drier weather forecasts indicated curbed power supply,
which gave support to near-term contracts.  The benchmark near-quarter power contract gained as much as
2 percent to 36.80 euros, the most since Jan. 16, and later
traded at 36.60 euros. That’s the highest since Jan. 23. March
power surged as much as 2 percent to 38.25 euros, and later
traded at 37.95 euros.  Water Reserves  The Nordic region gets half of its power by running water
though turbines. The amount of water and snow available to
generate electricity in the region may be 14.7 terawatt-hours
below normal for the time of year in two weeks, Markedskraft AS
data on Bloomberg show. That’s 64 percent more than today’s
deficit of 9 terawatt-hours.  “Prices are underpinned by forecasts for very dry weather
for the next 14 days, which acts as a rapid drain on water
reserves,” Svensson said. “The contract could gain a further
euro or euro and a half, but not more, as long as the spot price
fails to rise.”  Hydropower reserves will last throughout the winter, until
the spring thaw and melting period starts, Toni Sjoeblom,
portfolio manager at Finland’s Energiakolmio Oy said in an e-
mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Torsten Fagerholm in Helsinki at 
 tfagerholm@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  