-- Nortel Units Seek Showdown on $2.67 Billion Retiree Claim
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2013-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/nortel-units-seek-showdown-on-2-67-billion-retiree-claim.html
The U.S. unit of  Nortel Networks
Corp. , the defunct telecommunications company, asked a judge to
schedule a November trial on whether to throw out $2.67 billion
in claims filed on behalf of 38,000 U.K. retirees.  The request in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Wilmington,
Delaware, came after a mediator gave up on settlement talks last
month, saying bondholders, retirees and other creditors failed
to agree on how to split $9 billion in cash.  Nortel Networks Inc. asked the judge overseeing its slice
of the multicountry bankruptcy to first decide whether the U.K.
retirees have a legitimate claim to the money before deciding
how best to divide it. Retiree representatives asked the judge
to first decide how to split cash among Nortel’s units in the
U.S., Europe and Canada.  Nortel’s proposed schedule is “consistent with the court’s
previous suggestion that if mediation failed, it would impose a
greatly accelerated discovery schedule,” the U.S. unit said
yesterday in court papers, referring to the process by which
adversaries in a case exchange information.  Groups of creditors have been fighting over a shrinking
pile of cash that won’t cover all of the debts owed by Nortel
and its units. Creditors have presented more than $36 billion in
claims in Canada, according to a status report filed in a
Toronto court in October.  Four Countries  Nortel, based in Mississauga, Ontario, filed for bankruptcy
in 2009 in Toronto, Delaware, the U.K. and France, with various
units under the control of separate teams of lawyers and under
the jurisdiction of different courts.  The U.K. retirees are represented by bankruptcy
administrators overseeing the liquidation of Nortel’s European
units. Those administrators say Nortel’s U.S. unit owes the
retirees money to cover the cost of pensions.  The $9 billion should be divided among all of Nortel’s
units first, to make settling disputes about individual claims,
like the retirees’, easier to settle, the European
administrators told U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Kevin Gross .  Nortel’s U.S. unit raised most of the $9 billion by selling
assets it had under its control, including a portfolio of
thousands of patents.  The case is Nortel Networks Inc., 09-10138, U.S. Bankruptcy
Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   schurch3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 