-- Note Sales Tied to China Stock ETF at Record on Growth Optimism
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2013-02-08T04:39:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/note-sales-tied-to-china-stock-etf-at-record-on-growth-optimism.html
Structured-note issuers are selling a
record number of securities tied to BlackRock Inc.’s exchange
traded fund tracking top Chinese stocks as investors betting on
the nation’s growth seek to unlock gains in its equities market.  Offerings of notes solely tied to  iShares FTSE A50 China
Index ETF  totaled at least 14 as of Feb. 7, led by JPMorgan
Chase & Co., poised to surpass combined issuance in the two
years since the securities were first sold in 2010, according to
Bloomberg data. The fund, created by BlackRock’s iShares unit
and traded in Hong Kong, mimics the performance of China’s 50
biggest so-called A-share stocks listed on Shanghai and Shenzhen
exchanges that are off limits to most foreigners.  Global investors are seeking exposure to Chinese assets
after the country’s economy accelerated last quarter for the
first time since 2010. Speculation that growth will accelerate
further has pushed the value of the iShares ETF to its highest
level in 18 months.  “Back in the beginning of 2012, people raised concerns
about further growth in China,” said  Manuel Duerr , who oversees
distribution of structured products to individual investors at
EFG Financial Products AG. “One year later, we see again
increasing interest in China-related investments on the client
side.”  EFG sold notes linked to the ETF in four offerings for
Asian investors last month, Duerr said. The Zurich-based
structured-product distributor issued the second-most securities
tied to the fund after JPMorgan, which led sales with six
placements, according to Bloomberg data.  Economy Expands  The  iShares ETF  recovered from a three-year low as China’s
gross domestic product expanded 7.9 percent in the three months
through December, up from 7.4 percent in the previous period.
The  fund  managed HK$68.7 billion ($8.9 million) as of Feb. 5
after trading volume jumped 22 percent last year, according to
Bloomberg data. The high liquidity is one factor drawing
investors from as far afield as Europe, Duerr said.  The fund has become popular because of mainland rules
limiting foreigners’ purchases of yuan-denominated indexes or
stocks, and a limited availability of the Chinese currency
outside the nation, said  Edmond Lee , a Hong Kong-based director
overseeing development and sales of equities derivatives at
Societe Generale SA. A tax exemption for the fund is another
factor drawing investors, he said.  “Everyone can buy that as long as you have a stock
account,” Lee said in a phone interview. “It’s a very
convenient tool for people interested in the A-share market.”  Exposure Opportunity  Hana Daetoo Securities Co., a South Korean brokerage, is
among issuers seeking to follow JPMorgan in benefiting from the
 gains  in Chinese stocks. The company is preparing to issue its
first publicly offered securities tied to the ETF, Yoon Moon
Han, deputy manager for product development, said in a phone
interview.  In Hong Kong, an increasing number of callable bull and
bear contracts, which let investors make directional bets on the
underlying stocks or indexes to generate returns mirroring the
movements in the reference assets, are tied to the ETF. Issuance
totaled 24 this year as of Feb. 5, after rising 13 percent to
178 last year, according to Societe Generale data.  “The A-shares market started to rebound,” Societe
Generale’s Lee said. “Retail investors and some institutions
are rushing into the market to grab the chance.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  