-- NTSB’s 787 Findings May Lead to Boeing Battery Redesign
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s   a n d   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 2013-02-08T02:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ntsb-s-787-findings-may-lead-to-boeing-battery-redesign.html
Evidence is mounting that Boeing Co.
may have to redesign the battery on its grounded 787 Dreamliner
as U.S. National Transportation Safety Board experts pursue the
cause of a Boston jet fire last month.  NTSB Chairman  Deborah Hersman  yesterday said U.S.
regulators’ assumptions in certifying the 787’s lithium-ion
batteries “must be reconsidered” after investigators found a
short-circuit in one cell set off a chain reaction that
destroyed the unit.  What’s known so far suggests Boeing will have to come up
with a new design,  John Hansman , an aeronautics professor at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said in an interview.  “They weren’t supposed to have a fire, and they had a
fire, so something went wrong,” Hansman said. “By doing it
this way, the NTSB has forced Boeing to do something
significant, to prove that they’re doing something different
with the battery.”  The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration yesterday said
Boeing can conduct test flights to speed efforts toward
resolving the battery faults.  Investigators and Boeing are probing the causes of a fire
in a Japan Airlines Co. Dreamliner in Boston and a cockpit
battery warning, along with the smell of smoke, that spurred an
emergency landing in Japan by an All Nippon Airways Co. 787.
Those incidents triggered orders by the FAA and foreign
regulators starting Jan. 16 that grounded all 50 Dreamliners in
service worldwide.  Cascading Failure  The safety board is “basically calling out the very
premise upon which the system was certified,” said  Carter Leake , a BB&T Capital Markets analyst in Richmond, Virginia, who
is also a former pilot and previously worked for Canadian
planemaker Bombardier Inc.  “Getting to a root cause to me seems to be a non-event
until we find out what the FAA plans to do with regards to its
original certification,” he said. “So I think it’s a very
difficult situation that’s opening up here. I think the share
gain is a misread of the dynamics here.”  Boeing rose $1.14 yesterday to $77.43, the highest closing
price since Jan. 4, the last day of trading before the Boston
fire.  That Jan. 7 incident started when a short-circuit in one of
the battery’s eight cells set off uncontrolled overheating that
spread to the rest of the battery, Hersman said. Boeing had said
its pre-certification tests showed no sign such a cascading
failure was possible, she said.  Boeing  had told the FAA the lithium-ion batteries would
produce smoke less than once in 10 million flight hours, Hersman
said. Fire or smoke in two planes after fewer than 100,000
flight hours by the 787 raise questions about assumptions used
to certify the battery’s safety, she said.  ‘Difficult Situation’  NTSB investigators are looking at possible causes of the
initial short-circuit, including the recharging process,
contamination in folds within the cell, the battery design and
the manufacturing process, Hersman said.  Investigators ruled out mechanical damage and external
short-circuiting as a cause of the Boston fire, Hersman said.
All battery damage occurred after the short-circuiting began,
she said.  The lithium battery packs are an essential component in the
design of the Dreamliner, which entered service in 2011. The
787, developed to conserve fuel, uses five times more
electricity than similar jets and its fuselage and wings are
made from composite materials that are lighter than aluminum.  Because FAA regulations didn’t cover aspects of the new
design, the plane was certified with “special conditions” that
allowed use of the lithium-ion batteries, Hersman said.  Special Conditions  Boeing received regulators’ permission to use the batteries
in 2007, three years after the FAA barred passenger planes from
carrying non-rechargeable versions of that type of battery as
cargo because of fire concerns.  Boeing’s chief engineer,  Mike Sinnett , said Jan. 9 that the
batteries were designed so that failure of one cell wouldn’t
cascade to the others, and that the plane would be safe even if
it did. He said there had been no issues with the battery cells
over 1.3 million operating hours.  The FAA hasn’t finished its probe of the Dreamliner’s
certification and manufacturing processes or reached conclusions
about what changes may be needed, U.S. Transportation Secretary
 Ray LaHood  and FAA Administrator  Michael Huerta  said in a joint
statement yesterday.  “We are working diligently with Boeing to figure out the
problem and to find a solution,” Huerta said in prepared
remarks for a speech yesterday in Salt Lake City. “Our goal is
to get this done as quickly as possible, but we must be
confident that the problems are corrected before we can move
forward.”  Test Flights  The test flights authorized by the FAA yesterday will be
subject to restrictions, including that they be conducted over
unpopulated areas. Boeing, whose widebody-jet factory is just
north of Seattle, said the flights will be above the U.S.
Northwest using the fifth of six test jets that were built.  “We are working collaboratively to address questions about
our testing and compliance with certification standards, and we
will not hesitate to make changes that lead to improved testing
processes and products,”  Marc Birtel , a spokesman at Boeing’s
commercial headquarters in Seattle, said yesterday in a
statement.  The agency allowed Boeing to make one ferry flight with a
Dreamliner yesterday, under the condition that only the crew
would be on board, that special checks of the battery and system
would be performed, and that the aircraft would land immediately
if there were any indications of a battery fault.  The plane landed in Everett, Washington, after an
“uneventful” flight, said Birtel, the Boeing spokesman. No
tests were conducted on that trip.  Redesigning the battery wouldn’t necessarily leave the 787
fleet grounded for months, said  Hans Weber , chief executive
officer of Tecop International Inc., a San Diego-based aerospace
consulting company.  While investigating rudder anomolies on the Boeing 737
after two crashes in the mid-1990s, the planemaker and the FAA
agreed on temporary fixes that kept the plane flying, Weber
said.  “Sometimes it takes years before they find the answer, but
that doesn’t mean the fleet has to remain grounded,” Weber
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net ;
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  