-- NYC Best: Lady Gaga’s Extreme Shoes, Passion Pit, Pooches
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/nyc-best-lady-gaga-s-extreme-shoes-passion-pit-pooches.html
Head to Madison Square Garden for a
session with electro-poppers Passion Pit.  Fronted by Michael Angelakos, the band plays up-tempo songs
layered with shimmering synths, yet with a dark underbelly of
sadness and confusion.  Expect to hear hits from sophomore album “Gossamer,” as
well as the earlier “Manners.”  Opening acts: Matt & Kim and Icona Pop.  At 4 Pennsylvania Plaza. Information: +1-465-6741;
 http://www.thegarden.com .  Saturday  Stride over to the Museum at the Fashion Institute of
Technology for a close look at women’s shoes -- in the 21st
century, it’s a race to the top as even four-inch heels are
considered practically flats.  Of course there’s footwear designed by stalwarts  Manolo Blahnik  and Christian Louboutin.  Chanel has a cute silver pair with guns as heels.  And more extreme shoes created by avant-garde designers
such as Kei Kagami and Noritaka Tatehana are also represented:
There are staggeringly tall pink columns tied with white ribbon
made for Lady Gaga.  “Shoe Obsession” runs through April 13 at FIT, 7th Ave. at
27th St. Information: +1-212-217-4558;  http://www.fitnyc.edu .  Grab brunch at  April Bloomfield ’s Breslin Bar and Dining
Room.  Start with a Lavender Tonic, and then try the seafood
sausage with beurre blanc and chives.  At 16 W. 29th St. Information: +1-212-679-1939.  Saturday Matinee  Who is the mysterious fanged rabbit that sucks the juice
out of vegetables, leaving behind pale husks?  It’s “Bunnicula!”  Charles Busch (“Vampire Lesbians of Sodom”) adapted the
popular series by Deborah and James Howe for the stage, while
Sam Davis composed the music.  No kids under 4 permitted. And hide your carrots.  In previews at the Daryl Roth Theatre, 101 E. 15th St., for
a Feb. 10 opening. Information:  http://dr2kidstheatre.com .  Saturday Evening  Grab the chance to hear rising young conductor  Andris Nelsons  conduct the New York Philharmonic.  He joins forces with the luminous  Christian Tetzlaff  for
the Violin Concerto in D Major by Brahms.  Also on the program is Bartok’s Concerto for Orchestra, his
last completed work, and the scary “Noon Witch” by Dvorak.  At Avery Fisher Hall, Lincoln Center. Information: +1-212-
875-5656;  http://nyphil.org .  Saturday Night  Catch Amanda McBroom singing a blend of standards and
original tunes at the romantic Cafe Carlyle.  She brings penetrating theatrical flair to each piece,
especially her own song “The Rose,” which was a big hit for
 Bette Midler .  McBroom is accompanied on piano by Michele Brourman and
Daniel Fabricant on bass.  At the Carlyle Hotel, 35 E. 76th St. Information: +1-212-
744-1600;  http://www.rosewoodhotels.com/en/Carlyle .  Sunday  Take in “Blues for Smoke,” which sends contemporary culture
through an evocative filter.  Grappling with the tension between the sacred and profane,
what jazz writer Albert Murray described as “that sweaty
troubled space between Saturday night and Sunday morning,” the
show ranges through photography, video, painting, drawing,
sculpture and multimedia installations.  Visual artists include trickster  Jean-Michel Basquiat ,
Romare Bearden and  Martin Kippenberger , plus there will be live
music performances throughout the run of the show.  Through April 28 at the Whitney Museum of American Art, 945
Madison Ave. Information: +1-212-570-3600;  http://whitney.org .  Sunday Matinee  Edie Falco , star of “Nurse Jackie” and “The Sopranos,”
returns to the New York stage.  In the Manhattan Theatre Club production of “The Madrid,” a
new play by Liz Flahive, she plays Martha, a kindergarten
teacher with a loving family who decides to sit the year out.  Directed by Leigh Silverman, it also features  Frances Sternhagen .  In previews at City Center, Stage 1, 131 W. 55th St., for a
Feb. 26 opening. Information: +1-212-581-1212;
 http://www.nycitycenter.org .  Sunday Night  Elegant tunesmith Louis Rosen brings his latest album,
“Time Was,” to the Metropolitan Room.  The title track is a hypnotic adaptation of E.A. Robinson’s
prescient Depression Era poem, “Bewick Finzer,” about “fond,
imponderable dreams of wealth.”  At 34 W. 22nd St. Information: +1-212-206-0440;
 http://metropolitanroom.com .  Looking Ahead  Prized pooches will strut their stuff for judges and fans
at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, which rolls into
Manhattan on Monday.  First held in 1877, the event has seen more than 303,750
canine competitors.  Two breeds are newly eligible this year: the Treeing Walker
Coonhound and the Russell Terrier.  Last year Best in Show was awarded to the regal Pekingese
Malachy. Find out this year’s top dog on Tuesday.  Can’t make it? Watch the action on TV, beginning at 8 p.m.  At Piers 92/94, W. 55 St., and Madison Square Garden, 4
Pennsylvania Plaza.  Information:  http://www.westminsterkennelclub.org .  ( Zinta Lundborg  is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include Lewis Lapham’s  podcast  and Jeremy
Gerard on  theater .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 