-- Obama Aides Say Cuts Would Hit Programs From Food to Schools
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2013-02-08T22:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/obama-aides-warn-cuts-would-hit-programs-from-food-to-schools.html
The Obama administration began a
public campaign to head off scheduled automatic budget cuts that
the administration said would reduce spending on programs
including education, small business loans, food safety
inspections and defense.  The across-the-board cuts, known as sequestration, “would
cause very significant disruptions that would be felt far and
wide across the country,”  Danny Werfel , federal controller of
the Office of Management and Budget, said today in a briefing.  Werfel said the effects would include 600,000 women and
children losing nutrition assistance, 70,000 children taken out
of early childhood education programs, 2,100 fewer food
inspections and a reduction of as many as 12,000 scientists and
students who help conduct research on disease or other subjects.  The March 1 deadline for the cuts to take effect marks
another fiscal showdown between President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans. Unless Congress acts, an estimated
$85 billion in budget cuts, divided about evenly between defense
and domestic programs, are set to kick in. That’s part of the
$1.2 trillion scheduled to be cut over 10 years.  “There is no reason, no reason, for that to happen,”
Obama said today at a farewell ceremony for Defense Secretary
 Leon Panetta . “Putting our fiscal house in order calls for a
balanced approach, not massive, indiscriminate cuts that could
have a severe impact on our military preparedness.”  The president told House Democrats yesterday he is
“prepared, eager and anxious to do a big deal” of larger
spending reduction and tax increases to shrink the deficit.  Republican View  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has said
he’ll oppose any delay of the so-called sequester unless
Congress and the administration come up with other “cuts and
reforms.”  His spokesman, Brendan Buck, said Boehner agrees that the
sequester is the wrong way to cut spending. Still, he said Obama
got a $650 billion tax increase on top earners as part of the
last budget deal, enacted on Jan. 2, and that it’s time to make
cuts in federal spending.  “The president is out of excuses,” Buck said in a
statement today. “We’re glad they’re laying out the devastating
consequences of the president’s sequester, but the question
remains: What are they willing to do to prevent it?”  Obama and Congress agreed to the automatic cuts in August
2011 as part of an accord to raise the U.S.  debt ceiling .  Substitute Plan  Among Democrats, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  of
Nevada, Washington Senator  Patty Murray , who is chairwoman of
the Budget Committee, and others are working on a substitute
fiscal plan that may be released next week after Obama delivers
his State of the Union address on Feb. 12.  Werfel briefed reporters with  Jason Furman , principal
deputy director of the White House National Economic Council, as
the administration sought to ramp up pressure on Republicans for
a deal.  Furman said the cut in spending would cost “hundreds of
thousands of jobs” in the U.S., including federal employees.  While there are signs of strength in the housing market and
gains in hiring, forecasters predict a slower U.S. economic
expansion as tax increases and spending cuts crimp growth and
the global economy remains weak.  After the U.S. economy advanced at a 3.1 percent annual
rate in the third quarter, the government reported last week
that it stalled in the final three months of the year,
registering a 0.1 percent decline in part because of lower
defense spending. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for growth of just 2 percent this year.  GDP Forecast  The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said in its
forecast issued Feb. 5 that the economy would expand by 1.4
percent in 2013, partly because of budget-cutting in Washington.
The CBO predicts growth would increase to 3.4 percent the
following year.  Furman said the White House had “no opinion” on the
agency’s forecast, while adding that “they’re never very far
off.”  The Defense Department is preparing for the prospect of
losing funding this year. Panetta is delaying the deployment of
an aircraft carrier to the Persian Gulf to save money and the
Pentagon has issued a memo authorizing the firing of temporary
defense workers and furloughs for civilian employees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  