-- Honda Counters Weak Yen Criticism After U.S. Objections
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-02-08T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/honda-counters-weak-yen-criticism-after-u-s-criticism.html
Honda Motor Co. , targeting record
U.S. sales this year, said the weaker yen isn’t giving the
Japanese company an advantage after a group representing U.S.
automakers called for government intervention.  “I defy anybody, when we’re building 90 percent of what we
sell here, to say we have a currency advantage,”  John Mendel ,
the Tokyo-based company’s executive vice president of U.S.
sales, said yesterday at a J.D. Power & Associates conference in
Orlando, Florida. “I don’t think the current level of 90-plus
yen to the dollar is a cause for alarm.”  Honda, Japan’s third-largest automaker, relies on the U.S.
for more than 30 percent of its global sales. The American
Automotive Policy Council, which represents Ford Motor Co.,
General Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC, said in January that
President  Barack Obama  should tell Japan’s new government that
the U.S. will retaliate for policies aimed at weakening the yen.  The yen, which has weakened more than any currency since
mid-November, trades at about 93 to the dollar and 124 to the
euro.  Honda’s operating income gains by 16 billion yen annually
for every 1-yen drop in the dollar rate, and 1 billion yen for
each 1-yen drop in the euro rate, according to the company.  Honda on Jan. 31 cut its net income  expectation  for  the
year ending in March by 1.3 percent to 370 billion yen ($4
billion), countering other Japanese exporters that have raised
their forecasts after the yen tumbled. The company cited a
slower-than-expected recovery in sales in China and weakness in
European demand.  ‘Deathbed’ Rates  “Nobody worried about Japan” when the yen “went from 115
to 78, and said ‘Geez, I hope those guys are OK,’” Mendel told
reporters yesterday. “Now all the sudden it’s moderately off
deathbed kind of rates, and everybody’s going ‘Unfair.’ Let’s
focus on the quality of products. Let’s focus on the customer.”  Honda’s  American depositary receipts  fell 1.1 percent to
$37.89 at the close yesterday in New York. They’ve gained 3.4
percent for the 12 months ended Feb. 8 as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index rose 12 percent.  U.S. automakers have said the undervalued yen distorts
trade and stunts job growth for American manufacturers. Japan’s
Liberal Democratic Party, which reclaimed power in December, has
let the yen continue its slide against the dollar, making U.S.
auto exports relatively expensive, the American Automotive
Policy Council said in a Jan. 17 statement.  “We urge the Obama administration to make it clear to
Japan that such policies are unacceptable and will be met by
reciprocal measures,”  Matt Blunt , a former Republican governor
of Missouri and president of the Washington-based industry
group, said in last month’s statement.  ‘Japanese Giant’  A weaker yen is “awakening the Japanese giant,”  Adam Jonas , a New York-based analyst at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a
Jan. 28 report. He said he expects market share for Honda,
Toyota Motor Corp. and Nissan Motor Co. to rebound on an
improved ability to market their vehicles and equip them with
better content and interior features.  “With the correction in the yen trend, they are likely to
switch from a defensive to an offensive mode,” Jonas wrote of
the Japanese automakers. “Short-term positives include access
to a wider selection of pricing strategies with regards to
incentives and cutting prices.”  Honda Incentives  Honda’s Mendel said he expects the company will reduce its
incentives in the U.S. this year because of recently introduced
models such as the revamped Civic small car and Accord sedan.
Honda increased spending on marketing promotions last year by
3.9 percent to $2,206 a vehicle, as the industry average fell
1.7 percent to $2,482, according to researcher Autodata Corp.  U.S. sales for Honda climbed 24 percent to 1.42 million
cars and light trucks last year, rebounding from natural
disasters in Asia that disrupted production in 2011. Honda’s
best year in the U.S. was 1.55 million Honda and Acura vehicles
sold in 2007, and the company wants to exceed that mark in 2013,
 Tetsuo Iwamura , the automaker’s executive vice president, said
last month at the Detroit auto show.  Output at the company’s North American plants surged last
year to a record 1.69 million vehicles. Honda plans to be a net
exporter as its plants in the U.S., Canada and Mexico take more
responsibility for developing global models for sale in multiple
countries, the company said in December.  “While the purpose of local production is really to build
products close to the customer, this strategy also has minimized
the effects of exchange rates in our business,” Mendel said.  Honda is adding a factory in Mexico to produce Fit
hatchbacks starting in 2014.  With the addition of that plant,
Honda has said it will have capacity to build at least 1.9
million vehicles in North America annually.  “Renewed rhetoric about exchange rates giving an advantage
to Japanese automakers just really doesn’t pass the sniff
test,” Mendel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Orlando, Florida at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  