-- TOP Oil Market News: Oil Falls; Gasolines Falls on Supply Gain
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   K w i a t k o w s k i
-- 2013-02-08T01:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/top-oil-market-news-oil-falls-gasolines-falls-on-supply-gain.html
The following is a selection of the
most important news affecting the oil market.  Oil Falls to Two-Week Low on Concern Euro Gains May Curb Growth  Oil fell to the lowest level in two weeks in New York as
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the euro’s
strength could hamper an economic recovery, curbing fuel demand.  TOP OIL MARKET NEWS  Canada Heavy Oil Gains for Fourth Day as Bottlenecks Ease  Canadian heavy oil strengthened for a fourth day, reaching
the narrowest discount to U.S. crude since October, as a
pipeline bottleneck eased this month.  Japan to Gain Emergency Access to Saudi Oil, Nikkei Says  Japan’s trade minister will conclude an agreement Saturday
for Saudi Arabia to raise production if Japan makes an emergency
request for additional supply, Nikkei reports, without
attribution.  ‘Historic’ Snowstorm Threatens Outages, Delays in Northeast (3)  Heavy snow, travel disruptions and power failures are
possible from a “historic” nor’easter that threatens to drop 2
feet of snow starting tomorrow across eastern Massachusetts and
almost a foot in New York City.  Ethanol Strengthens Against Gasoline as Stockpiles Decline  Ethanol strengthened against gasoline on speculation that
falling stockpiles will help reduce a glut of the biofuel and
buoy prices.  Gasoline Falls, Spreads Weaken as East Coast Supplies Increase  Gasoline dropped and the March-April spread weakened for a
sixth day on speculation imports to the East Coast may increase
stockpiles.  Vitol Sells Europe Naphtha; Gasoline Snaps Decline: Oil Products  Naphtha extends its gains to trade at four-month high with
cos. including Shell and BP buying. Vitol and Glencore sold five
cargoes each this week.  Deep-Water Safety Defect Threatens Global Offshore Drilling (1)  Deep-water oil exploration has been disrupted from the Gulf
of Mexico to Brazil by the discovery of faulty bolts used in
safety equipment less than three years after the worst-ever U.S.
maritime crude spill.  Natural Gas Falls After Smaller-Than-Forecast Stockpile Decline  Natural gas futures fell for the first time this week after
a government report showed that U.S. stockpiles declined by less
than forecast last week.  U.S. Energy Department Natural Gas Update for Feb. 6 (Text)  Following is the text of the weekly natural gas update as
released by the U. S. Department of Energy in Washington, D.C.:  Glencore Said to Study Stock-Market Listing in South Africa (2)  Glencore International Plc, the largest publicly traded
commodities supplier, is considering a stock-market listing in
South Africa to tap the country’s investor base, according to a
person familiar with the situation.  Gasoil Stockpiles Fall in Europe’s Oil-Trading Hub, PJK Says  Gasoil stockpiles in independent storage fell in Europe’s
Amsterdam-Rotterdam-Antwerp oil-trading hub, according to PJK
International BV.  OPEC  Saudi Arabia Said to Keep Oil Production Near 20-Month Low (1)  Saudi Arabia kept production near 9 million barrels for a
second month, according to a Gulf official with knowledge of the
country’s oil policy, helping to maintain OPEC output at close
to the group’s official ceiling.  OPEC to Keep Exports Stable as Demand Ebbs, Oil Movements Says  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will keep
shipments stable this month as winter demand in the northern
hemisphere fades and refiners begin maintenance, according to
tanker tracker Oil Movements.  REFINERIES Map global refinery outages  New York Gasoline Slumps to Nine-Month Low on Europe Cargoes  U.S. East Coast gasoline weakened to a nine-month low
against futures on speculation that the flow of cargoes carrying
fuel from Europe to the U.S. will rise and as a Pennsylvania
refinery unit restarted.  Colonial Freezes Nominations on Linden L6 for Cycle 6  Nominations on Linden L6 segment to BP, Kinder Morgan
Carteret terminals frozen for Cycle 6, Colonial Pipeline Co.
said in notice to shippers.  Phillips 66 Ponca City Treater Said Shut, Coker Outage Planned  Phillips 66’s Ponca City oil refinery in Oklahoma shut a
gasoil hydrotreater for short-term repairs and will in the fall
take the coker out of service for work, a person familiar with
operations at the plant said.  New York Gasoline Slumps to 9-Month Low on More Europe Cargoes  U.S. East Coast gasoline weakened to a nine-month low
against futures on speculation that the flow of cargoes carrying
fuel from Europe to the U.S. will rise and as a Pennsylvania
refinery unit restarted.  BP Carson to Start Catalytic Cracker, Alkylation Unit Feb. 9-16  BP Plc expects to restart a fluid catalytic cracker and
alkylation unit at the Carson, California refinery between Feb.
9 and 16.  MORE: Valero Port Arthur Flaring Related to Unit Shutdown  Valero Energy Corp. shut saturated gas recovery unit at
Port Arthur, Texas refinery, today, according to Bill Day, Co.
spokesman.  Valero Port Arthur Refinery Reports Flaring on Community Hotline  Valero Energy Corp. reported flaring at its Port Arthur,
Texas, refinery, according to a message on a community hotline.  Delta Trainer Refinery Starting Catalytic Cracker  Delta Air Lines Inc.’s Monroe Energy LLC subsidiary began
restarting FCC unit this week at its Trainer refinery in
Pennsylvania, Trebor Banstetter, a spokesman for Delta in
Atlanta, said by phone.  Bakken Railed to Anacortes to Reach 50,000 BPD After Turnaround  Tesoro Corp.’s Anacortes, Washington refinery will reach
50,000 b/d Bakken rail capacity after 1Q turnaround work.  OTHER OIL MARKET NEWS  Oil Product Shipping Costs to Japan Are Unchanged  The cost of shipping a gallon of gasoline, jet fuel or
other so-called clean petroleum products from the Middle East to
Japan was unchanged at 7.99 U.S. cents yesterday, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost is based on a cargo of
55,000 metric tons.  Gasoline Cargoes to U.S. Seen at 11-Week High on Demand Gain (2)  The flow of gasoline cargoes to the U.S. from Europe is
poised to reach an 11-week high, spurred by stronger demand and
elevated prices for the auto fuel, a Bloomberg survey showed.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East, Asia, Africa
and the Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a
barrel, or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where
plus and minus symbols appear.  Crude Official Selling Prices and Formulas by Country (Table)  The following table shows official prices, formulas and
relative values for crudes from the Middle East, Asia, Africa
and the Americas. Figures represent outright prices in dollars a
barrel, or premiums and discounts to regional benchmarks where
plus and minus symbols appear.  TOP ENERGY STORIES  ‘Historic Winter Storm’ Headed for U.S. Northeast May Cut Power  A “potential historic winter storm” and blizzard may dump
2 feet of snow on Boston and eastern Massachusetts, potentially
causing power outages and leaving 10 inches in New York City.  Ex-Amaranth Trader, CFTC Asks Court to Toss $30 Million Fine (1)  A former natural-gas trader at Amaranth Advisors LLC,
backed by the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, asked a
federal appeals court to overturn a $30 million fine imposed by
another regulator over alleged manipulation of the gas-futures
market.  Japan Banks Follow Goldman to $19 Billion Solar Market: Energy  Japan’s biggest banks are following Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. into domestic solar-power projects, anticipating an
eightfold increase for investments in the industry.  Hollande Draws French Industry Ire as Nuclear Edge Fades (1)  French industrial groups are up in arms as their once-
celebrated nuclear-energy edge evaporates.  Deep-Water Safety Defect Threatens Global Offshore Drilling (2)  Deep-water oil exploration has been disrupted from the Gulf
of Mexico to Brazil by the discovery of faulty bolts used in
safety equipment less than three years after the worst-ever U.S.
maritime crude spill.  TransCanada Says East Route Eases Oil Discount: Corporate Canada  Crude from Alberta’s oil sands sells at a 30 percent
discount to its U.S. counterpart. TransCanada Corp. Chief
Executive Officer Russ Girling plans to narrow that gap whether
or not his Keystone XL pipeline to the Gulf of Mexico wins
approval from the Obama administration.  Exelon to Make First Dividend Cut as Quarterly Profit Falls (3)  Exelon Corp., owner of the largest group of U.S. nuclear
plants, will cut its quarterly dividend for the first time as
falling electricity prices and expiring long-term contracts
reduce profit.  China Buys Gas at Record as Crude Imports Capped: Energy Markets  Record natural gas costs are doing nothing to dissuade
China from boosting imports of the cleaner- burning fuel as the
world’s biggest emitter of greenhouse gases approaches its
government-set limit for oil purchases.  Iran May Lose $2.5 Billion Sales as India Seeks U.S. Waiver (1)  Iran, which dropped two places to become India’s fourth-
largest crude supplier last year, may lose $2.5 billion of
revenue as global sanctions prompt the South Asian nation to
reduce purchases.  OTHER MARKETS  U.S. Stocks Retreat While Euro Weakens on Comments From Draghi  U.S. stocks fell following a two-day gain amid
disappointing earnings and economic data while the euro sank
after European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the
currency’s strength could hamper the economic recovery. European
shares erased early gains. Treasuries rose.  Euro Falls Most Since July as Draghi Warns of Slowing Inflation  The euro fell the most since July against the dollar after
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said the recent
strength of the currency creates a concern that inflation will
slow.  DeMark Says Bottomed-Out Yen Poised for 10% Gain Versus Dollar  The yen is poised to strengthen more than 10 percent versus
the dollar within six months after depreciating to the weakest
level since 2010, according to Tom DeMark, the creator of
indicators to show turning points in securities.  U.S. Stocks Decline on Comments From Draghi, Earnings Reports  U.S. stocks fell, after a two-day advance in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index, as corporate earnings reports disappointed and
European policy makers warned the euro’s advance could hamper
the region’s recovery.  FINRA Proposes Reducing Equity-Trade Report Time to 10 Seconds  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority is seeking a
rule change that would require brokerages to report trades
within 10 seconds rather than 30.  U.S. Soy Supply at 48-Year Low as Brazil Ships Held: Commodities  Dry weather and shipping delays in South America are
boosting demand for soybeans from the U.S., the world’s largest
grower and exporter, and producing the tightest inventories in
almost five decades.  Coffee Falls to 32-Month Low on Brazil, Colombia Crop Outlook  Coffee futures slumped to the lowest in almost 32 months on
mounting concern that global demand will trail supplies boosted
by jumbo crops in Brazil and Colombia.  Panetta Exposes Rift With Obama on Plan to Arm Syrian Rebels (2)  The Obama administration’s two top defense officials
publicly acknowledged a policy disagreement with the White House
over whether to send U.S. arms to the rebels in Syria.  House Democrats Seek Assault-Weapon Ban, Magazine Size Limit (2)  U.S. House Democrats proposed a ban on military-style
assault weapons and a 10-round limit on ammunition magazines to
try to curb mass shootings.  SPORTS  Premier League Soccer Clubs Agree on Proposal to Curb Losses  England’s top soccer clubs agreed to a plan that will
require teams to work toward profitability and restrict spending
on players or face point deductions and other sanctions, the
Premier League said.  Birmingham City Soccer Club Owners Approached by Potential Buyer  Birmingham City’s Hong Kong-based owners said they’ve been
approached by a potential buyer of the English soccer team.  Premier League Soccer Clubs Support Spending Controls, Gold Says  English Premier League soccer clubs voted to approve
spending limits, West Ham co-owner David Gold said today.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  