-- Tories Start Eastleigh Election With Three-Point Lead
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-02-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/tories-start-eastleigh-election-with-three-point-lead.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives begin a battle to win the Eastleigh parliamentary
special election with a three-point lead over Deputy Prime
Minister  Nick Clegg ’s Liberal Democrats, who currently hold the
seat,  a poll showed .  While Cameron and Clegg are partners in the coalition
government, the one who wins the vote on Feb. 28 may be able to
reassure his party he’s enhanced the chances of retaining power
after the 2015 general election. The one who loses will face
questions from his own side over strategy.  The poll commissioned by  Michael Ashcroft , a Conservative
Party lawmaker in the upper House of Lords, found 34 percent of
respondents saying they planned to vote Tory, against 31 percent
for the Liberal Democrats, and 19 percent for the opposition
Labour Party. The poll of 1,006 adults was conducted by phone
Feb. 4 and Feb. 5, immediately following the resignation of
 Chris Huhne , the incumbent. No margin of error was specified.  “Conservative voters are the most likely to be sure how
they will vote, and Lib Dems who say they may change their minds
are more likely to switch to the Tories than any other party,”
Ashcroft, who has run polls before other recent special
elections, said in a statement. “However, Labour voters are
more likely to be open to changing and are more likely to move
to the Lib Dems if they do.”  Huhne, who was energy secretary in the coalition Cabinet
until last year, quit Parliament this week after pleading guilty
to perverting the course of justice by asking his wife to say
she was driving his car when it was caught speeding in 2003. He
faces jail.  Council Domination  Clegg called the special election for the first possible
date, gambling that a short campaign will suit his party, which
has 40 of the 44 seats on the local council and has provided its
member of Parliament since 1994.  “Eastleigh has been in Lib Dem hands for a long time, and
the party has a strong local-government base,” Ashcroft said.
“Huhne was a popular and, by all accounts, assiduous MP, and
many in Eastleigh will be sad to see him go.” He said “the
Tories should not expect many to switch out of disgust.”  There’s been increased tension between the coalition
partners in recent months, with rebel Conservative lawmakers
killing changes to the House of Lords favored by the Liberal
Democrats and Clegg’s party retaliating by blocking a redrawing
of electoral boundaries that would have helped the Tories.  At the 2010 election, the Liberal Democrats took 47 percent
of the vote in Eastleigh, the Conservatives 39 percent, and
Labour 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  