-- Mortgage Bond Rally Falters as Nykredit Bets Turn: Nordic Credit
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2013-02-08T09:02:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/mortgage-bond-rally-falters-as-nykredit-bets-turn-nordic-credit.html
Europe’s biggest issuer of covered
bonds backed by mortgages is avoiding its own market on a bet
the securities have passed their peak.  The  Nykredit Index  of the most-traded  Danish mortgage  bonds
has retreated from a December high as investors turn their backs
on haven assets amid signs Europe’s crisis is abating. That
trend is likely to continue and Nykredit A/S is now cutting its
holding of the safest mortgage bonds, according to  Soren Holm ,
the chief financial officer at the Copenhagen-based bank.  “Prices have increased and the spread has gone down so
much on mortgage bonds that we don’t think it’s realistic that
they will go down further in the short term,” Holm said in an
interview yesterday. “And with interest rates so relatively
low, it’s more likely that they will increase.”  Nykredit sold 50 billion kroner ($9 billion) in mortgage
bonds from northern European issuers in the second half of last
year, Holm said. The sell-off of haven assets left government
bonds from AAA rated Denmark the world’s worst debt class so far
in 2013, delivering investors a 2.5 percent loss since Dec. 31.
The difference between Danish yields and their German
counterparts has moved from negative last year to positive, and
was at its widest this week since November 2011.  Yield Spread  The difference in yield on Nykredit’s 4 percent callable
mortgage bond due October 2025 and Denmark’s 1.5 percent 2023
government bond widened to 119 basis points yesterday from as
low as 114 basis points on Jan. 30. The Nykredit bond’s spread
relative to Germany’s 10-year benchmark bond yield widened to
134 basis points this week, from 123 basis points on Jan. 30.  Nykredit said yesterday profit after tax in 2012 more than
doubled to 2.6 billion kroner ($477 million) after returns on
its mortgage bonds surged. Without the windfall from its
portfolio of the securities, the closely-held bank’s profits
don’t look so good, Holm said. Nykredit needs to earn more from
its core business to help it meet stricter capital requirements,
he said.  “In the first half year of 2012, we had an extra
approximately 50 billion kroner more invested in mortgage bonds
-- northern European -- against government bonds,” Holm said.
“This is the main reason for the strong investment result.”  At the height of Europe’s debt crisis last year, the
central bank in Copenhagen fought off a capital influx by
sending its deposit rate below zero for the first time in its
almost-200-year history. The July cut followed investor fears
that the euro zone might experience its first sovereign default,
making preservation of principal key even as some yields went
negative.  Draghi Effect  After European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  later
the same month pledged to do whatever it takes to protect the
euro, investor panic abated, as did demand for haven assets.
Danish bond yield spreads relative to German bunds went from
negative to positive.  “The European crisis seems to be going away at the
moment,” Holm said. “Money that flowed into Denmark will flow
out again.”  The central bank last month raised interest rates for the
first time since July 2011, bringing its deposit rate to minus
0.1 percent from minus 0.2 percent. It raised the benchmark
lending rate to 0.3 percent from 0.2 percent. The bank doesn’t
hold scheduled meetings and only adjusts rates to maintain the
euro peg.  The ECB yesterday kept its main rate at 0.75 percent.  Helge Pedersen , chief economist at Nordea Markets in Copenhagen, said
that takes some pressure off the Danish central bank.  “For now, the Danish central bank is on standby,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christian Wienberg  in Copenhagen at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  