-- Emerging ETF Jumps as Shanghai Gains on Trade; Real Drops
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2013-02-08T22:09:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/most-emerging-stocks-rise-on-china-data-gs-engineering-slumps.html
The iShares MSCI  exchange-traded fund 
tracking emerging-market shares jumped and stocks in Shanghai
surged as rising exports burnished the outlook for the world’s
second-largest economy. Brazil’s real fell amid intervention.  Great Wall Motor Company Ltd. , a Chinese sport utility
vehicle maker, led a rally in emerging consumer stocks as data
showed vehicle sales surged.  OAO Gazprom , the world’s biggest
producer of natural gas, drove Russia’s benchmark Micex Index to
a three-week low. The real weakened from a nine-month high as
Brazil’s central bank acted to curb strength by offering reverse
currency swaps.  The emerging-market ETF gained 0.7 percent to $43.85 in New
York, narrowing its decline this week to 1.5 percent. The  MSCI
Emerging Markets Index  of 821 developing-nation stocks added 0.1
percent as it posted its steepest weekly drop since November.
The Shanghai Composite Index added 0.6 percent as government
data showed Chinese trade expanded more than analysts estimated
last month and a broad measure of credit climbed to a record.
Exports grew 25 percent from a year earlier.  “We’re still in a mildly risk-on environment, but we’ve
seen very mixed policy signals coming out of places including
Brazil,”  Gavin Redknap , an emerging-markets strategist at Nikko
Asset Management Co., said by phone from London. “There will be
a bit of consolidation given that we’ve seen such strong gains
over the course of December and January.”  Falling Volatility  The MSCI emerging-markets gauge, which has climbed 5.3
percent since the end of November, posted a 1.1 percent drop
this week, the most since the five days ended Nov. 16. The
measure’s 100-day volatility sank to 8.8, the lowest level since
August 1997, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging Markets ETF
Volatility Index , a measure of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, dropped 4.6 percent.  Brazil’s Bovespa posted a 3.1 percent weekly retreat as the
real’s advance this week dimmed the prospects for Brazil’s
exporters. The currency slipped 0.3 percent to 1.9727 per dollar
today after earlier rising to the strongest intraday level since
May 11. Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  signaled policy makers
would allow the real to appreciate another 5 percent.  The government will curb the rally in the currency if it
reaches 1.85 per dollar, Mantega said in an interview with
Reuters. The government won’t allow speculative appreciation of
the real, the Finance Ministry said in an e-mailed statement to
Bloomberg News.  Pulp company Fibria Celulose SA retreated 3.4 percent to
the lowest level in a month, leading daily declines on the
Bovespa.  Gazprom Dividends  Istanbul’s ISE National 100 Index added 0.7 percent.
Turkish real-estate company  Emlak Konut Gayrimenkul Yatirim
Ortakligi AS  dropped the most on record as it plans a second
public offering of shares to finance projects, Bloomberg HT
television reported today, citing sources it didn’t identify.  Russia’s  Micex index  fell for a third day as Gazprom lost 1
percent, extending its weekly decline to 3.4 percent. The  Micex 
Index slid 0.4 percent, the lowest since Jan. 16.  Gazprom, Russia’s biggest natural gas exporter, said it may
pay 7 to 8 rubles a share for 2012 dividends, compared with 8.97
rubles paid for 2011, according to an investor presentation
today. The company estimates 2012 net income of $38 billion,
down from $44.5 billion a year earlier.  Poland’s  WIG20 Index  climbed for a second day, and the
Czech Republic’s benchmark PX Index added 0.8 percent, the most
in a month.  Consumer Rally  A gauge of emerging-market consumer discretionary stocks
led  gains  in the MSCI developing-nation stock index, rallying
0.9 percent today and up 1.3 percent this week. BYD Co., the
Chinese carmaker partly owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire
Hathaway Inc., jumped 12 percent in the week, as Nomura Holdings
Inc. said the company is in a good position to achieve its 2012
sales target.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in the U.S. climbed 0.7 percent, led by web games
developer NetEase Inc., which posted the steepest two-day surge
since 2010 after the stock was upgraded.  South Korea’s  Kospi  Index advanced 1 percent, the most
since Jan. 2. The Shanghai Composite Index climbed 0.6 percent.
Vietnam’s VN Index gained 0.7 percent to the highest level since
March 2011. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index  of mainland
companies listed in Hong Kong dropped 0.3 percent.  Trading volumes for the Kospi were 37 percent below its 30-
day average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Volumes were 19
percent lower for the Shanghai Composite before a weeklong
holiday for the Lunar New Year. Volumes were more than double
for the BSE India Sensex Index.  China Data  India’s rupee slipped 0.5 percent against the dollar after
the government yesterday predicted economic growth will slow to
the least in a decade. The Taiwanese dollar weakened 0.6
percent, while the won lost 0.7 percent, leading declines among
emerging markets currencies.  China’s overseas shipments increased 25 percent from a year
earlier, the customs administration said today, compared with
the 17.5 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Imports rose 28.8 percent, exceeding the 23.5 percent median
forecast of analysts.  Great Wall Motor, the maker of China’s best-selling sport
utility vehicle last year, surged 6.4 percent, snapping a five-
day loss. Passenger-vehicle sales jumped 49 percent from a year
earlier to a monthly record of 1.73 million units in January,
the state-backed China Association of Automobile Manufacturers
said in an e-mail yesterday. That compares with the 1.5 million
unit average of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Hyundai, Cosco  Hyundai Motor Co.  rose 4.8 percent in its steepest advance
since Sept. 14, trimming its yearly decline to 4.1 percent,
while Kia Motors Corp. gained 4.4 percent, paring its 2013 slump
to 7.8 percent. Foreign investors may view recent declines in
the stocks as excessive and are buying the companies’ shares,
Kang Sang Min, an analyst at E*Trade Securities Ltd., said by
phone.  China Cosco  Holdings Co. advanced 5.4 percent in Hong Kong,
the most since Jan. 10. The company plans to raise cargo rates
from April 1, and expand services on the Asia to West Africa
routes, according to notices on its website.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 271 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Stilwell in New York at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  