-- Total Set to Get Tanzania Oil, Gas Exploration Licenses
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d
-- 2013-02-08T10:30:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/total-set-to-get-tanzania-oil-gas-exploration-licenses.html
Tanzania is set to award exploration
permits to  Total SA , Europe’s third-largest crude producer, to
search for oil and gas in the East African country, Energy and
Minerals Minister  Sospeter Muhongo  said.  The company, based in Paris, “has approached us and we are
going to issue licenses to Total” to explore in Lake
Tanganyika, on the border with Democratic Republic of Congo,
Muhongo said in an interview yesterday in Cape Town. The permits
will be issued in the “next few months,” he said.  BG Group Plc , a U.K. explorer, and  Statoil ASA , Norway’s
biggest energy company, are among companies searching for gas in
Tanzania, where an estimated 33 trillion cubic feet of the fuel
has already been found. Along with neighboring Mozambique, where
explorers made the biggest discovery of the decade, more than
100 trillion cubic feet of reserves have been found, enough to
meet global demand for a year.  Tanzania plans to create a sovereign wealth fund that will
use growing oil and gas revenue to finance development projects
in East Africa’s second-biggest economy, Muhongo said. The fund
may also invest in company shares to accumulate wealth, he said.  “We should have a fund whose accessibility is somehow very
restrictive and the utilization of the resources are for good
intentions,” Muhongo said.  The government has “just” completed a second draft of a
policy document for the gas industry that’s aimed at improving
revenue management, Muhongo said. After feedback from the
general public and companies has been incorporated, parliament
is expected to vote on the policy, which hasn’t been updated
since 1980, before the end of the year, he said.  Licensing Round  Muhongo on Sept. 3 ordered the Tanzania Petroleum
Development Corp. to delay the country’s fourth international
licensing round for offshore oil and gas blocks until after the
policy is ratified. Nine blocks were to have been auctioned on
Sept. 13.  “We have emphasized in this document that natural gas has
to be of benefit to the citizens of this country,” Muhongo
said. “Secondly, that the resources will be used wisely for
today and for future generations and that the gas economy will
be integrated in the national economy.”  Among the benefits Tanzania hopes to draw from its natural
gas wealth is to more than double electricity production to
3,000 megawatts by 2015.  Tanzania last year received a $1.2 billion loan agreement
from the  Export-Import Bank of China  to build a 500-kilometer
(311-mile) pipeline from the coastal town of Mtwara to Dar es
Salaam, the commercial hub, where it will feed proposed power
plants. The conduit will be completed on schedule in 18 months,
even after protests by residents of Mtwara last month over the
planned location of the power plants, Muhongo said.  ‘Ill Informed’  “All these demonstrations are by ill-informed people, they
are not in the national interest,” he said. “Nothing will
change. It is on schedule.”  The Tanzania Electric Supply Co., Tanzania’s state-owned
power utility, is also in negotiations with Citigroup Inc. and
other international lenders to secure funding to build six gas-
powered electricity plants and 400-kilovolt transmission
systems, he said.  No one was immediately available for comment at Total when
Bloomberg called the company’s Paris headquarters today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Franz Wild in Cape Town at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  