-- HP Tightens Employment Rules for Suppliers in China
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-08T16:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/hp-tightens-employment-rules-for-suppliers-in-china.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. , the world’s
largest computer maker, tightened hiring rules for China
suppliers two weeks after  Apple Inc.  said a labor agent in the
country forged documents on behalf of underage workers.  Working hours for students must be lower than the legal
limit and the total number of student workers must also be
limited,  HP  said in a e-mailed statement yesterday, without
providing more details.  Suppliers  must comply with the
guidelines immediately, said the maker of Envy laptops.  The effort to improve working conditions follows Apple,
which joined the Fair Labor Association last year after being
criticized for working conditions at suppliers including Foxconn
Technology Group. Foxconn, which supplies both PC makers, said
HP’s new guidelines don’t impose any requirements beyond what it
already does.  “We don’t hire outside contract workers,”  Louis Woo ,
spokesman for Taipei-based Foxconn, said yesterday. “It’s been
our policy for a long time not to allow student interns to do
overtime or night shift, and we pay them the same as any other
entry-level workers.”  Apple stopped doing business with a manufacturer that
employed 74 people younger than 16 who used faked papers, the
Cupertino, California-based company said in its annual  Supplier
Responsibility Report  released Jan. 25.  HP  said suppliers must ensure “fair remuneration and
social insurance” and all work should be voluntary. “Local
regulations must be reinforced or exceeded,” the Palo Alto,
California-based company said. “Student workers should only
engage in work activities that complement the primary degree
they are seeking to obtain.”  Students and temporary workers must be free to leave work
at any time upon reasonable notice without negative
repercussions, and they must have access to reliable and
reprisal-free grievance mechanisms, the  HP  rules state. The new
guidelines were reported earlier by the New York Times.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  