-- Pakistan Keeps Benchmark Rate Unchanged as Inflation Accelerates
-- B y   F a s e e h   M a n g i
-- 2013-02-08T19:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/pakistan-keeps-benchmark-rate-unchanged-as-inflation-accelerates.html
Pakistan’s central bank left interest
rates unchanged as it tries to damp accelerating inflation while
supporting expansion in an economy beset by an energy crisis.  The State Bank of Pakistan left the  discount rate  at 9.5
percent, Governor  Yaseen Anwar  said at a briefing in Karachi
yesterday. All 15 analysts in a Bloomberg News survey predicted
the decision. The monetary authority has reduced the benchmark
by 2.5 percentage points since August last year.  Power cuts have hurt growth in the $210 billion economy,
threatening to sap support for President Asif Ali Zardari’s
administration ahead of a general election due by mid-2013. The
nation is also grappling with a slide in foreign reserves and
plunge in the rupee, which have increased the odds of a bailout
by the International Monetary Fund.  “The recent rise in inflation gives the central bank
reason to tread cautiously,”  Sukhy Ubhi , an economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. in London, said in a note. “Nonetheless,
we think the SBP will probably cut its key rate later this year.
Weak economic growth should prevent inflation from rising
sharply.”  Consumer prices  climbed 8.07 percent in January from a year
earlier, the fastest pace in four months. Gross domestic product
will increase 3.2 percent in the 12 months through June 2013,
slower than last year’s 3.7 percent pace, IMF estimates show.  Subdued global growth and an insurgency on the Afghan
border have also buffeted the South Asian nation’s economy.  Energy Challenge  “The main challenge for the next government is the energy
shortage,” Anwar said at a briefing yesterday, adding it
subtracts two to three percentage points from growth. Energy
reforms would help lift potential expansion to as much as 7
percent, he said.  Pakistan is evaluating a possible loan from the IMF as a
buffer against shocks,  Saleem H. Mandviwalla , the minister of
state for finance, told reporters Dec. 19 in Islamabad.  The rupee has weakened about 7.5 percent against the dollar
in the past year. The benchmark  Karachi Stock Exchange 100 Index 
has climbed 43 percent in the period, helped by increases in
corporate profits.  Zardari’s democratically elected administration seeks to
create history by becoming the first to complete its five-year
term and transfer power through a ballot in a country ruled for
half its history by the military.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Faseeh Mangi in Karachi at 
 fmangi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  