-- Postal Service May Force Congress’s Hand to Make Changes
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-02-08T14:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/postal-service-may-force-congress-s-hand-to-make-changes.html
Lawmakers who wouldn’t help the U.S.
Postal Service as its annual losses reached almost $16 billion
may be spurred to act after Postmaster General  Patrick Donahoe 
said he would end Saturday mail delivery without Congress’s
approval if necessary.  Donahoe’s Feb. 6 announcement prompted U.S. House and
Senate leaders to say that passing legislation to restore the
service’s financial viability is a top priority this year, even
as Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  yesterday joined other
Democrats and postal unions in questioning the move’s legality.  The Postal Service, which is losing $25 million a day, says
it can’t do more than narrow its losses without congressional
action on big-dollar changes. The service today said it lost
$1.3 billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31, its strongest period
because of holiday mailing, despite cutting costs by 9.8 percent
from a year earlier.  “I’d like to say we can solve these problems on our own,”
Donahoe said today at a postal board meeting in Washington.
“The scale of our challenge requires major legislative reform
to our business model. We do not want to be a burden on the
American taxpayers.”  Donahoe has said the Postal Service, which is supposed to
be self-sufficient, needs to cut costs by $20 billion a year to
pay off its debt to the U.S. Treasury and return to
profitability.  Mail volume is down 26 percent from its 2006 peak as
individuals and businesses have shifted toward e-mail and e-
billing, and the service exhausted its borrowing authority last
September.  Health Care  It has asked Congress to defer or restructure a requirement
to pay about $5.5 billion a year to the Treasury for health-care
costs for future retirees. The service defaulted on the last two
payments to preserve cash, and Chief Financial Officer  Joseph Corbett  today said this year’s payment won’t be made.  Donahoe has also proposed taking the approximately 521,000
postal workers out of the U.S. government employee health-
benefits system. The service last year projected it would save
$7.1 billion a year by managing its own benefits.  Ending Saturday mail delivery would save $2 billion
annually, according to the Postal Service.  “They cannot cut costs in a way that will make them
sustainable,” said  Richard Geddes , a Cornell University
associate professor who studies the Postal Service and advocates
changing its business model. “It’s like if you reduce the costs
of horses and buggies in the automobile era.”  Republican Support  The Democrat-controlled Senate last year passed a measure
giving the service much of the relief it sought, while requiring
it to study the impact of ending Saturday delivery for two
years. The Republican-controlled House didn’t bring up the
Senate measure or vote on an alternative proposal criticized by
Donahoe that would have set up an independent commission to
close post offices while imposing a control board to oversee
postal finances.  Now, with his move on Saturday delivery, Donahoe is drawing
support from Republicans and criticism from Democrats.  The top Republicans on the House and Senate committees with
postal oversight, Representative  Darrell Issa  of California and
Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma, praised Donahoe’s move.
Representative  Jose Serrano , a New York Democrat on the House
Appropriations Committee, said it would be illegal, and  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat who leads the Senate
appropriations subcommittee with postal jurisdiction, said it
“circumvents the will of Congress.”  ‘Flawed Guidance’  The service previously said it needed a change in law to
cut a day of delivery because language first added to
appropriations bills in 1981 dictates six days of delivery.
Donahoe said Feb. 6 the service, which gets less than 0.1
percent of its revenue from taxpayers, would rely on a new legal
intrepretation that it could take that step under a continuing-
funding resolution that expires next month.  “The postmaster general relied on flawed legal guidance to
claim that he can circumvent Congress’ authority on the
matter,” Reid said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  David Partenheimer , a Postal Service spokesman, said the
service responded to the biggest criticism of five-day delivery
by preserving Saturday package service.  “Given our worsening financial situation, the strong
public support for this change, and the plan to maintain six-day
package delivery, it is anticipated that most members of
Congress will understand the urgent need to implement this
change,” he said in an e-mail.  ‘Public Good’  Reid, while criticizing Donahoe, blamed House Republicans
for stalling postal service changes last year. The Nevada
Democrat called it a top priority for this year, echoing
statements made the previous day by House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an Ohio Republican.  While Donahoe said ending six-day mail delivery isn’t a
ploy to goad Congress to act, Farrokh Hormozi, chairman of the
public administration department at New York’s Pace University,
said it may have that effect. Millions of Americans depend on
receiving physical mail, he said.  “The fact of the matter is that the Postal Service is what
economists call the public good,” he said in an interview. “It
doesn’t matter whether I get my Visa bill today or tomorrow. But
for those people who depend on government subsidies or welfare
checks or Social Security and they live from one paycheck to
another, this is a significant issue we’re talking about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  