-- Pound Posts Biggest Weekly Gain Versus Euro Since 2011
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n
-- 2013-02-08T16:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/pound-strengthens-third-day-versus-euro-before-bill-sale.html
The pound rose for a third day
against the euro, set for its biggest weekly gain in two years,
amid bets the Bank of England will refrain from extending its
stimulus program in contrast to its European counterpart.  Sterling appreciated versus all but one of its 16 major
counterparts before U.K. reports next week that economists said
will show producer prices rose in January and retail sales
increased. Future Bank of England Governor  Mark Carney  said
yesterday that current monetary policy may be enough to help the
economy, while European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said
the region’s policy may “remain accommodative.” U.K.
government bonds were little changed.  “We might see a stronger sterling against the euro,” said
 Eimear Daly , a currency-market analyst at Monex Europe Ltd. in
London. “The market had priced in aggressive easing from Carney
and they were probably disappointed from what they saw
yesterday. The move was compounded by what we saw from Draghi.”  The pound appreciated 0.9 percent to 84.53 pence per euro
at 4:31 p.m. in London after reaching 84.47 pence, the strongest
level since Jan. 24. It has gained 2.8 percent this week, the
most since the period ended Jan. 7, 2011. The U.K. currency rose
0.6 percent to $1.5814.  Investors should sell the euro against the pound, according
to analysts at Citigroup Inc. and Standard Bank Plc.  ‘Move Lower’  The euro-pound exchange rate “could extend its move lower
from here,”  Valentin Marinov , the London-based head of European
Group of 10 foreign-exchange strategy at Citigroup, wrote in an
e-mailed note today. “Absent further significant deterioration
in the U.K. data, the BOE need not be moved to add to its
stimulus. This could encourage investors to take off some
sterling shorts and support the pound.”  A short position is a bet an asset will fall. Investors
should sell the euro until it weakens to 82 pence, Marinov said.  Steven Barrow , head of Group of 10 research at Standard
Bank in London, recommends the same trade, targeting 82.80
pence, he wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Bank of England policy makers yesterday left the benchmark
interest rate at a  record-low  0.5 percent and held the asset-
purchase  target  at 375 billion pounds. Draghi suggested the
euro’s gains may damp inflation, a signal further interest-rate
cuts remain a possibility.  Pound’s Gain  The pound has gained 1.9 percent this week, the best
performer of 10 developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The euro dropped 1.2 percent and
the dollar advanced 1 percent.  U.K. producer output prices climbed 0.2 percent last month,
after falling 0.1 percent in December, according to a Bloomberg
survey before the Office for National Statistics releases the
figures on Feb. 12. Retail sales climbed 0.5 percent, a separate
survey showed ahead of the data on Feb. 15.  The benchmark  10-year gilt  yielded 2.09 percent after
rising to 2.17 percent on Feb. 4, the highest level since April
20. The 1.75 percent bond due in September 2022 traded at 97.04.  Gilts have lost 2 percent this year through yesterday,
according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German bunds dropped
1.3 percent and Treasuries fell 0.8 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Goodman in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  