-- Prosafe to Issue More Bonds on Booming Debt Demand in Norway
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2013-02-08T14:20:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/prosafe-to-issue-more-bonds-on-booming-debt-demand-in-norway-1-.html
Prosafe SE , the largest operator of
accommodation rigs for offshore oil and gas workers, may issue
bonds for a second time this year to refinance its debt, taking
advantage of high demand for Norwegian corporate paper.  The Larnaca, Cyprus-based company, which on Jan. 4 issued a
500 million kroner ($90.6 million) seven-year bond with a coupon
of 3.75 percent over the Norwegian Interbank Offered Rate, could
sell paper at a similar volume and conditions “any time from
now,” Chief Executive Officer  Karl Ronny Klungtvedt  said today.  When the rate difference between bank loans and bonds “is
so small, bonds have an advantage with the flexibility they
offer,” he said in an interview in Oslo. “We have an asset-
based business with vessels that have a long lifespan, and the
seven-year bond we just issued is adapted to our business
structure. Avoiding very rapid down-payments on debt can be
appropriate for us.”  Issuance of Norwegian corporate bonds jumped last year to a
record 96.3 billion kroner, with high-yield bonds accounting for
54 percent of the total, according to data from Nordea Markets.
Corporate debt sales in the U.S., Europe and Asia surged to
$3.89 trillion in 2012 as borrowing costs fell to a record low
amid stricter capital rules that are restricting bank credit,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Floating Hotels  “Our philosophy is to  raise the money  before we need it,”
Klungtvedt said. “The primary capital need we have for the
coming year is the completion of the two new-builds,” which
will cost a total of about $700 million, he said. “We have bank
loans in place, but at the same time we have bonds maturing, so
for us it would partly be a matter of rolling those over. ”  Prosafe has 361 million kroner of floating rate notes
maturing in October and 500 million kroner due in 2016,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company had net
interest-bearing debt of $706.8 million as of the end of 2012,
according to its fourth quarter, published today.  While bank financing will remain the most important source
of funding, Prosafe plans to increase “the share of bond loans
in our financing mix,” Chief Financial Officer  Sven Boerre Larsen  said, without providing further details.  Prosafe, which currently owns 11 semi-submersible
accommodation rigs, is expanding its fleet as it bets on rising
demand for  floating hotels  for workers as energy companies
expand the search for hydrocarbons beneath the seabed.  Shares Gain  The company sees growing demand in the North Sea, Mexico
and Brazil, it said in a presentation today.  Prosafe posted fourth-quarter  net income  of $42.3 million,
up from $36.5 million a year earlier and beating the $29 million
average of nine analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
fell 7.1 percent to $113.1 million.  Shares in the company gained as much as 9.2 percent to
56.35 kroner, the  highest intraday level  since May 22, 2008. The
stock traded 5.1 percent higher at 54.25 kroner as of 3:20 p.m.
in Oslo, giving Prosafe a market value of 12.5 billion kroner.  Prosafe is the world’s largest owner of semi-submersible
accommodation rigs, according to its presentation material
published today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mikael Holter  in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  