-- Trade Deficit in U.S. Probably Narrowed as Exports Climbed
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2013-02-08T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/trade-deficit-in-u-s-probably-narrowed-as-exports-climbed.html
The  trade deficit  probably narrowed
in December as stabilizing overseas markets helped lift U.S.
exports for a second month, economists said before a report
today.  The gap shrank to $46 billion from $48.7 billion in
November, according to the  median  of 73 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey. Another report may show wholesaler stockpiles grew less
in December than in the prior month.  China’s growth picked up toward the end of 2012 and the
euro region is starting to show signs of recovering from a
recession, indicating American companies such as  Caterpillar
Inc.  will benefit from improving demand. At the same time, it
will be difficult for the trade shortfall to narrow further as a
growing U.S. economy also leads to gains in imports.  “Global growth is coming back up and that’s good for
exports,” said  Harm Bandholz , chief U.S. economist at UniCredit
Group in New York. “U.S. imports can be expected to rise as
domestic demand improves. The trade deficit will gradually get
wider.”  The Commerce Department will release the trade figures at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg ranged from deficits of $48 billion to $42.3 billion.  At 10 a.m., another Commerce Department report may show
wholesale  inventories  rose 0.4 percent in December after a 0.6
percent gain the prior month as businesses kept stockpiles in
line with sales, economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted.  Oil Prices  A drop in oil prices in December may have helped to keep a
lid on the value of imports, today’s trade data may show. The
cost of imported petroleum fell 0.8 percent in December,
according to figures from the Labor Department.  It may get harder to contain the import bill as oil has
advanced this year. Brent crude traded on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London averaged $112.32 in January compared with
$109.2 a barrel the prior month.  A weaker U.S. currency will make American exports more
attractive to overseas buyers. As of Feb. 1, the dollar had
dropped 4 percent from last year’s peak on June 1 against a
trade-weighted  basket  of currencies from its biggest trading
partners, according to Federal Reserve data.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction and
mining equipment, may benefit from improving prospects in the
U.S. and abroad.  ‘Increasingly Optimistic’  “The key phrase here when we talk about the world economy
in 2013 is a bit better but still weak,” Michael DeWalt, a
spokesman for the Peoria, Illinois-based manufacturer, said
during a Jan. 28 earnings teleconference. “In the United
States, we’re becoming increasingly optimistic,” and “in
China, we’re expecting improvement in 2013,” he said.  China, the world’s second-biggest economy, accelerated in
the final three months of 2012 for the first time in two years.
The growth momentum is “relatively strong,” its central bank
said this week, while warning that inflation risks may rise.  The 17-nation euro economy also is starting to stabilize
after the sovereign debt crisis drove it into a recession last
year. Economic weakness will prevail only “in the early part”
of this year, European Central Bank President Mario Draghi said
at a press conference in Frankfurt yesterday. “Later in 2013,
economic activity should gradually recover, supported by our
accommodative policy stance.”  Draghi signaled that policy makers are concerned the
strength in the euro, which reached a 14-month high against the
dollar this month, will hamper their efforts to pull the
region’s economy out of the slump.  Concern about Europe is among reasons some American
companies like  Cummins Inc. , a Columbus, Indiana-based maker of
engines for trucks and power-generation equipment, are cautious.  “We start 2013 with a high degree of uncertainty about
business conditions in several markets,”  Thomas Linebarger ,
chairman and chief executive officer, said on a Feb. 6 earnings
call. “In Europe, it’s hard to see a catalyst for growth in the
near term.”  
To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  