-- Rand Gains 1st Day in Three, Paring Weekly Drop on Commodities
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-02-08T15:21:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/rand-falls-for-3d-day-set-for-weekly-drop-on-growth-concerns.html
The rand gained for the first time in
three days, paring its decline this week, after Chinese trade
figures exceeded estimates, adding to evidence of a growth
rebound in the biggest buyer of South African raw materials.  South Africa’s currency advanced 0.3 percent to 8.8797 per
dollar as of 5:01 p.m. in Johannesburg, cutting its retreat this
week to 0.4 percent. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due
December 2026 fell four basis points to 7.29 percent, one basis
point lower than a week ago.  Exports from China gained 25 percent last month and imports
climbed 29 percent, government figures showed today, both higher
than projected by economists in Bloomberg surveys. Sales of
passenger vehicles in the country surged 49 percent in January,
a state-backed trade group said. China buys about 13 percent of
South Africa’s exports, according to government data.  “Chinese data this morning came as a pleasant surprise,”
 John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “This supports the
view of an acceleration in the economy,” underpinning the rand,
he said.  The  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index  of raw materials surged to
a more than four-month high on a closing basis as prices of
metals including copper and nickel gained. Metals and other
commodities accounted for 53 percent of South Africa’s exports
in 2012, according to government data.  The rand extended its gain after the trade deficit in the
U.S. narrowed more than forecast in December, led by record
exports of petroleum that gave the world’s largest economy a
boost at the end of 2012.  Manufacturing Data  The South African currency’s decline earlier this week was
fueled by speculation the central bank may lower borrowing costs
as manufacturing slows and more people give up job-hunting in
Africa’s biggest economy.  Manufacturing  growth slowed to an annual 2 percent in
December, from a revised 3.7 percent the month before, a report
showed yesterday. South Africa’s unemployment rate, the highest
of 39 emerging markets tracked by Bloomberg, declined to 24.9
percent in the fourth quarter, from 25.5 percent the previous
three months, as more people gave up seeking  work , Statistics
South Africa said.  The slowdown is “resulting in widespread job losses and
rising unemployment, which the Reserve Bank would likely want to
counterbalance with looser monetary policy,” Quinten
Bertenshaw, a Johannesburg-based analyst at ETM Analytics, wrote
in e-mailed comments. “As a result, rate cuts could still be on
the cards.”  The Reserve Bank held the repurchase rate at 5 percent last
month as a weak rand put pressure on inflation, preventing
policy makers from offering more stimulus to the economy after a
surprise  rate  cut in July. South Africa’s gross domestic product
expanded 2.5 percent last year, the slowest pace since a
recession in 2009, according to the government and central bank
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  