-- Transocean, U.S. Urge Judge to Accept Plea in Gulf Spill
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2013-02-08T22:27:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/transocean-u-s-urge-judge-to-accept-criminal-plea-over-spill.html
Transocean Ltd.  and federal
prosecutors urged a judge to accept the oil driller’s agreement
to plead guilty to a criminal charge over its role in the 2010
Gulf of Mexico oil spill and pay more than $1.4 billion,
according to court papers.  Transocean ’s willingness to plead guilty to violating
federal pollution laws and pay a $400 million criminal fine,
along with $1 billion in civil penalties, is a fair resolution
of the government’s probe of the drilling firm’s actions in
connection with the Deepwater Horizon spill, prosecutors and
lawyers for the company said in a 21-page joint court filing
today.  “The size and scope of the criminal penalty imposed on
Transocean fairly and reasonably balances the seriousness of the
spill and its consequences with an assessment of Transocean’s
role” in the environmental disaster, lawyers said in the
filing.  Transocean was the owner and operator of the Deepwater
Horizon oil rig, which burned and sank in the Gulf of Mexico in
April 2010 after  BP Plc ’s Macondo well exploded, setting off the
largest offshore oil spill in U.S. history. Under the plea,
Transocean also must establish a technology innovation group to
focus on drilling safety and devote at least $10 million in
funding to the program.  Highest Fine  The explosion aboard Transocean’s drilling rig killed 11
workers and sent millions of barrels of crude oil spewing into
the gulf. The accident prompted hundreds of lawsuits against
Transocean, London-based  BP , the well’s owner, and Houston-based
 Halliburton Co. , which provided cementing services.  Transocean’s criminal fine is the second-highest assessed
over an environmental disaster, prosecutors and lawyers for the
company said in today’s court filing. The highest was BP’s $1.26
billion fine in connection with the same spill.  BP agreed in November to pay a total of $4 billion to
resolve a federal criminal probe of its role in the spill and
$525 million to settle the U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission ’s claim that the company misled investors about the
rate of oil flowing into the gulf. The oil company pleaded
guilty to 14 counts, including 11 for felony seaman’s
manslaughter.  BP officials said earlier this week the company has spent
as much as $8.5 billion on lawsuit settlements related to the
spill and is still facing more than $34 billion in claims from
U.S. states affected by the environmental disaster.  Responsibility Accepted  Transocean’s misdemeanor plea to one count of violating the
Clean Water Act doesn’t cover the company’s exposure for
natural-resources damages under the Oil Pollution Act of 1990,
according to court filings.  The OPA law requires responsible parties to reimburse both
the federal and state governments for the cost of restoring
natural resources, such as wetlands, to pre-incident conditions.  Federal prosecutors said in today’s filing that Transocean
officials “provided substantial cooperation” with the
government’s probe of potential criminal acts tied to the spill.  Company officials contacted a federal task force
investigating the incident “within days of its formation and
provided continuous and meaningful” information, Justice
Department lawyers said in the filing.  Transocean officials said the drilling company “accepts
responsibility for the criminal conduct” targeted by the plea,
the company’s lawyers said in the filing. The company also has
initiated “significant” rig safety and environmental
protection programs since the Deepwater Horizon incident, its
attorneys added.  Plea Hearing  U.S. District Judge  Jane Triche Milazzo  will decide Feb. 14
whether to give final approval to Transocean’s plea after a
public court hearing. BP’s plea won final approval last month.  Three victims have notified the government of their intent
to speak at Transocean’s plea hearing next week, Derek Cohen,
deputy director of the Deepwater Horizon Task Force, said in a
separate filing today.  The victims include include Buddy Trahan, a Transocean
executive who was seriously injured in the rig explosion; Laura
Regan, a waterfront property owner claiming medical effects from
the spill; and Anh-Dao T. Nguyen of the Southeast Asian
Fisherfolk Association, which represents immigrant seafood-
industry workers on the Gulf.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Transocean Deepwater Inc., 13-
cr-001, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at  allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  