-- RBA Cuts GDP, Inflation Outlook on Currency, Investment
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2013-02-08T01:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/rba-cuts-gdp-inflation-outlook-on-currency-investment.html
The Reserve Bank of Australia reduced
its economic growth and inflation forecasts as investment
outside the mining industry remains elusive, the labor market
softens and a high local currency contains prices.  “The soft outlook over the next year or so reflects a
number of factors,” the RBA said in its quarterly monetary
policy statement released in Sydney today. “Mining investment
is expected to peak, both fiscal consolidation and the
persistently high level of the Australian dollar will weigh on
growth, and there is little sign of a near-term pick-up in non-
mining business investment.”  The RBA noted that the global outlook has been “more
positive in recent months” and China’s economy has stabilized.
The RBA predicted “below trend” 2013 growth of about 2.5
percent, compared with around 2.75 percent forecast in November.
Consumer prices will rise 3 percent in the year to June 2013,
compared with the 3.25 percent increase it had forecast three
months earlier, the central bank said.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board reduced the  overnight
cash-rate target  to 3 percent in December, matching a half-
century low, as they try to revive industries including
construction to rebalance economic growth and extend 21
recession-free years. The restrained outlook for prices gives
scope for further  rate cuts  if needed to boost demand, the RBA
reiterated in today’s statement after it paused this month.  ‘Two Halves’  “It’s a statement of two halves: more optimistic on the
global backdrop, and more benign on the inflation outlook,”
said  Glenn Maguire , principal of Asia Sentry Advisory Pty Ltd.
in Sydney. “It leaves the door open to rate cuts if the
downside risk to inflation is greater than the upside risk to
global growth.”  The so-called Aussie touched $1.0256, the lowest level
since October, after the statement. It was at $1.0270 as of
12:44 p.m. in Sydney, heading for a 1.3 percent weekly decline.
Benchmark 10-year bond yields were at 3.46 percent, down from
3.52 percent a week ago.  “The effects of the high exchange rate on inflation may
also be longer lasting than expected,” the RBA said today.  The strength of the Australian currency has hurt industries
outside mining: it averaged $1.03 over the past two years,
compared with 76 cents in the prior decade. The RBA based its
forecasts on the currency at $1.03, compared from $1.04 in its
November statement, and assumed the overnight cash-rate target
would remain at 3 percent.  ‘Scaled Back’  On jobs, the RBA said: “Sectors exposed to the mining
sector have scaled back their demand for labor and remain
focused on minimizing costs, while the ongoing fiscal
consolidation has weighed on public sector employment.”  Australia added  part-time jobs  in January and fewer people
hunted for work, helping keep the unemployment rate unchanged at
5.4 percent, government data showed yesterday. In 2011 and 2012,
the country posted its worst back-to-back years of job growth
since the 1997 Asian financial crisis, with the number of
construction jobs falling by 21,900 in the 12 months through
November, according to government figures.  Concern about job security has curbed retail spending,
which fell in the final three months of 2012, the longest
decline in 13 years. Consumer confidence was little changed last
month as households concerned about their finances shrugged off
rate reductions, a private report showed Jan. 16.  “Looking ahead, consumption spending is expected to grow a
little below trend in the near term before picking up
slightly,” the RBA said. “The household saving ratio is
expected to remain fairly steady.”  Rate Moves  The central bank lowered borrowing costs by a total of 50
basis points late in 2011 and a further 125 basis points in May,
June, October and December to help stimulate the economy as
Europe’s fiscal crisis threatened global growth. It kept rates
unchanged this week, citing better international economic and
financial conditions and looser global policies.  “Improving conditions in the housing market are expected
to continue to provide support to dwelling investment,” the
central bank said in today’s  statement . “The cumulative
reduction in interest rates is affecting interest-sensitive
parts of the economy, though the full effects will, of course,
take more time to become apparent.”  Rate Bets  Traders are pricing in about a 50-50 chance the central
bank will reduce rates by a quarter point to a record-low 2.75
percent next month, swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Australia’s economy has benefited from high terms of trade,
or export prices relative to import prices, that rose to a
record in 2011. The central bank said today they probably ended
2012 about 17 percent below their peak. The economy benefited
from a rebound in the price of iron ore, that has surged from a
three-year low reached in September.  “The recent rebound in bulk commodity prices is likely to
see a small increase in the terms of trade in the early part of
this year,’ the central bank said. ‘‘Thereafter, bulk commodity
prices and Australia’s terms of trade are expected to decline
gradually as global supply responds to the significant
investment in mining infrastructure.”  The central noted expectations that iron-ore prices won’t
be sustained at current high levels.  Stevens is managing an economy sustained by demand from
emerging nations including China and India for iron ore, coal
and natural gas. Chevron Corp., Royal Dutch Shell Plc and
ConocoPhillips are among energy companies investing to explore
and develop gas fields in Australia.  Australia’s northeastern state of Queensland suffered
flooding last month for the second time in about two years. The
RBA said today that the inundation “is having a noticeable
impact on the transport of coal to ports, but at this early
stage it appears that the effect on exports will be much less
than was the case in 2011.”  Among international risks, the central bank cited  “some
uncertainty about the nature of future policies given the
extended leadership transition in many parts of the government
and state-owned enterprises” in China, Australia’s biggest
trading partner, and territorial disputes in Asia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Heath in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  