-- REC Falls as Weak Cash Flow Fuels Share Sale Concern: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-02-08T12:25:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/rec-falls-as-weak-cash-flow-fuels-share-sale-concern-oslo-mover.html
Renewable Energy Corp ASA , the solar
maker grappling with excess capacity, dropped the most in almost
three months in Oslo as weaker-than-expected cash flow and
slower cost cuts increased the chance of a dilutive share sale.  REC, based in Sandvika near Oslo, declined as much as 15
percent, the  most since Nov. 15 , and was down 8.8 percent at
0.938 kroner as of 12:50 p.m. local time. More than 47 million
shares have been traded so far, about 40 percent more than the
three-month average daily volume.  The company is failing to “reduce cash costs in line with
its target,”  Eirik Vegem Dahle , an analyst at Pareto Securities
AS, wrote in an e-mail. REC’s fourth-quarter cash flow was about
100 million kroner ($18.1 million) less than expected,
increasing the likelihood of an equity issue, he wrote.  REC, like European peers Solarworld AG and Q-Cells SE, is
under pressure from Chinese competitors that expanded capacity
just as demand slowed, causing solar-wafer and cell prices to
plummet. Cuts in renewable-energy subsidies in France, Italy and
Germany have also reduced sales for manufacturers.  REC is in talks with its banks about changes to covenants
on a 2 billion-krone credit line maturing in April 2014, Chief
Financial Officer  Kjell Christian Bjoernsen  said in Oslo today.
REC also needs to  refinance  a 320 million-euro convertible bond
and a 650 million-krone fixed-rate note next year.  Chief Executive Officer  Ole Enger  is “quite optimistic”
the company will be able to refinance its debt, he said in a
presentation. He declined to give more detail in an interview.  Cut-Off Point  REC is predicted to report first-half earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization that will miss the
300 million kroner cut-off point set by its banks, according to
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Ebitda will reach less
than a tenth of that level at 27 million kroner in the first-
quarter, according to the average of five estimates, and 110.5
million kroner in the second-quarter, according to the mean of
three estimates.  REC has sought to bolster its balance sheet by curbing
costs, cutting jobs and reducing capacity. It also raised 1.3
billion kroner through a share sale last year. That’s helped it
cut its net debt to 1.8 billion kroner in the fourth quarter
from 7.9 billion kroner two years earlier.  The polysilicon maker reported a fourth-quarter loss before
interest taxes, depreciation and amortization of 34 million
kroner, narrowing from a 216 million-krone loss a year earlier,
REC said in a statement today. Sales fell 26 percent to 1.69
billion kroner in the quarter, it said.  The cash cost of producing granular polysilicon was $12.5 a
kilogram (2.2 pounds) during the three months, more than its
$11.5 target, REC said. The total cost of producing a solar
panel at REC’s Singapore factory was 0.58 euros ($0.78) a watt,
in line with its target.  Polysilicon prices will have to return to a level “well
above” $20 a kilogram before REC restarts production of
Siemens-based solar grade silicon production at its Moses Lake
plant in the U.S., Enger said in an interview. It halted
capacity of 2,400 metric tons at the factory in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at   cwienberg@bloomberg.net  