-- Renesas Widens Loss Forecast on Job Cuts, Chip-Demand Slump
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2013-02-08T06:11:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/renesas-widens-loss-forecast-on-job-cuts-chip-demand-slump.html
Renesas Electronics Corp. , the
Japanese chipmaker getting a bailout from a state-backed fund,
widened its full-year loss forecast as it cuts staff and
reorganizes factories amid slowing demand.  The net loss may be 176 billion yen ($1.9 billion) in the
year ending March 31, the Kawasaki, Japan-based company said in
a statement today. That compares with an earlier loss forecast
of 150 billion yen and the 162 billion-yen average loss of seven
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Renesas, whose  customers  include  Apple Inc.  and  Nintendo
Co. , made a 46.6 billion-yen loss in the quarter ended December
amid competition from Freescale Semiconductor Ltd. and a
slowdown in TV sales that has sapped demand for system LSI
chips. The slump forced Renesas to announce more than 10,500 job
cuts since July and to plan the sale of 150 billion yen of new
shares to investors led by state-backed Innovation Network Corp.
of Japan.  The chipmaker cut its full-year sales forecast to 770
billion yen from 820 billion yen. It predicted an operating
loss, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and selling, general
and administrative expenses, of 26 billion yen, compared with
the previous target of a 21 billion-yen profit.  Panasonic, Fujitsu  The company last month announced plans to shed more than
3,000 workers following the removal of about 7,500 positions
through a buyout program in October. In total, job losses amount
to about 25 percent of the workforce. The company also said last
month it will sell three factories to J-Devices Corp.  INCJ will hold 69 percent of the chipmaker following the
new share sale. Renesas will use the money it expects from the
state-backed fund and investors including  Toyota Motor Corp.  and
Nissan Motor Co. to develop more advanced microcontrollers used
in cars and TVs. It may also get another 50 billion yen from
INCJ.  Renesas is currently 91 percent owned by NEC Corp., Hitachi
Ltd. and Mitsubishi Electric Corp., which helped form the
 company  through the merger of various chip-making businesses.
Fujitsu Ltd. and Panasonic Corp. yesterday announced plans to
combine their LSI chip businesses in a deal that may get funding
from the state-backed Development Bank of Japan.  The “door is open” for Renesas to join the venture,
Fujitsu President  Masami Yamamoto  told reporters yesterday.  Renesas is boosting investment in microcontrollers amid
slowing demand fell for system LSI chips, used for functions
including processing TV images. The microcontroller business
accounted for 43 percent of sales last fiscal year.  The chipmaker had a 27 percent share of the global market
for microcontrollers in 2011, according to researcher IHS Inc.’s
iSuppli. It controlled 42 percent of the market for
microcontrollers used in cars to run systems including airbags
and brakes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  