-- Ridgeway Court CDO Shows S&P Didn’t Follow Own Rating Downgrades
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-02-08T01:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ridgeway-court-cdo-shows-s-p-didn-t-follow-own-rating-downgrades.html
On the same day in June 2007 that
Standard & Poor’s decided large-scale downgrades of mortgage-
backed securities might be necessary as the subprime market fell
apart, S&P analysts awarded $2.8 billion of a collateralized
debt obligation called Ridgeway Court Funding II Ltd. a AAA
grade, the best they could possibly bestow.  The CDO, which was underwritten by New York-based Citigroup
Inc. and composed of subprime mortgage-backed securities and
other similar bundles of debt, defaulted 201 days later, leaving
investors with almost nothing.  That’s just one of dozens of transactions valued at tens of
billions of dollars in 2007 in which S&P deliberately misled
investors about the risks of mortgage bonds in order to win
business from Wall Street banks, the Justice Department said in
a lawsuit filed against the company and parent McGraw-Hill Cos.
The U.S. is seeking penalties that may exceed $5 billion, based
on losses suffered by federally insured banks.  “We dropped the ball on this one,” an S&P analyst wrote
in a July 11, 2007, e-mail to an investment-banker client about
the structured finance group. “But you think it’s bad now, wait
’till next week.”  CDOs, CDOs  Ridgeway Court was made up of about 33 percent subprime
residential-backed mortgage securities from 2006, 10 percent
from 2005, and 7 percent from 2007, according to the complaint.
An additional 31 percent was other CDOs made up of asset-backed
bonds originally assigned the lowest investment-grade ratings by
S&P or its competitors Moody’s Investors Services and Fitch
Ratings.  CDOs pool assets such as mortgage bonds and package them
into new securities with varying risks in which revenue from the
underlying bonds or loans are used to pay investors.  S&P decided on June 28, 2007, the same day it awarded the
Ridgeway Court ratings, that it would “authorize immediate
large-scale negative rating actions on non-prime RMBS,”
according to the government complaint filed Feb. 4 in Los
Angeles.  Some of Ridgeway Court’s CDO holdings included even more
CDOs, according to documents prepared for investment managers
reviewed by Bloomberg News. It owned directly part of Carina CDO
Ltd., whose assets were liquidated, and indirectly another CDO
called 888 Tactical Fund Ltd. that had a stake in Carina. Two
other CDOs it invested in, Pinnacle Peak CDO Ltd. and Octonion
CDO Ltd. held interests in 888 Tactical Fund, according to the
documents.  Ridgeway Court’s 196-page  prospectus  cites increasing
stress in the mortgage market, including rising delinquencies
and default rates, falling property values, and fraudulent
mortgage loan applications. Sales of bonds backed by subprime
mortgages were tumbling as investors and bankers pulled back,
concerned about rising delinquency rates.  ’Internal Pressure’  “There was a lot of internal pressure in S&P to downgrade
lots of deals earlier on before this thing started blowing up,”
the S&P analyst said in a July 5, 2007, e-mail cited in the
lawsuit. “But the leadership was concerned of p*ssing off too
many clients and jumping the gun ahead of Fitch and Moody’s.”  S&P’s CDO group ignored warnings and data from its mortgage
securities unit that their MBS ratings, used in grading CDOs,
were proving flawed, according to the complaint. The lawsuit
includes at least 58 examples of S&P executives taking steps to
appease issuers or acknowledging how pressure from banks could
lessen the quality of its grades or delay downgrades.  Ridgeway Court, managed by Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group
AG, defaulted on Jan. 15, 2008, according to the lawsuit,
meaning almost total losses for investors including  Eastern
Financial Florida Credit Union .  Ambac Suit  A unit of bond insurer  Ambac   Financial Group Inc.  sued
Citigroup and Credit Suisse for fraud, negligent
misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary duty and fraudulent
conveyance after its insurance unit sold investors protection
against default on the Ridgeway CDO’s most senior notes, the top
65 percent, through credit-default swaps.  Ambac alleged that Citigroup withheld material information,
necessary for accurate ratings, about the deteriorating
collateral portfolio, which included “recycled detritus” from
other CDOs and RMBS offerings it hadn’t been able to sell,
according to the claim filed Aug. 3, 2009.  The collateral included “substantially deteriorated
subprime mortgage backed securities that Citigroup sold to
Ridgeway II in order to get off its own books,” according to
Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP, which  represented  Ambac.  Ratings Cut  Fitch cut Ridgeway Court’s most-senior class seven levels
in November 2007, from the top AAA grade assigned when the notes
were issued in June. Moody’s began considering a downgrade on
the class that month.  Two days after Ridgeway Court defaulted, S&P raised its
loss estimates for Ambac,  MBIA Inc.  and other bond insurers by
20 percent after updating models for subprime-mortgage bonds and
CDOs. The next day the ratings firm expanded its review of the
top-rated class, saying it might downgrade an additional $876
million of AAA rated debt issued by Ridgeway, up from about $351
million, of the top-rated classes, which represented $1.95
billion of the deal.  “The rating agencies have been living in a conflicted
position of denying all of this for a long time,”  David Einhorn , co-founder of Greenlight Capital LLC, the New York-
based hedge-fund manager that bet on a decline in MBIA shares,
said in a January 2008 interview.  S&P downgraded the AAA rated slices on Feb. 20, 2008.  Credit raters are poised to face more lawsuits after the
U.S.’s, according to Einhorn, who’s been wagering against the
 shares  of ratings firms for more than five years.  ’Road Map’  “When you look at the government complaint, it’s like a
road map,” Einhorn said yesterday in an interview at Bloomberg
LP headquarters in New York. “It shouldn’t take too much effort
for the people who bought the CDOs who aren’t banks to
essentially copy the government and sue for further damages. I
would expect there to be a large amount of private actions from
people not named in this complaint who bought these CDOs in
2007, who suffered the same fate as the bank victims.”  S&P rated more than $2.8 trillion of residential mortgage-
backed securities and about $1.2 trillion of CDOs from September
2004 through October 2007, according to the Justice Department
complaint.  The company contests the suit’s allegations. Despite its
best efforts to “keep up with an unprecedented, rapidly
changing and increasingly volatile environment,” the severity
of “what ultimately occurred was greater than we -- and
virtually everyone else -- predicted,” the company said in a
Feb. 4 statement.  S&P said in its statement that all of its CDOs cited by the
Justice Department received the same ratings from a competitor.
Moody’s granted $2.7 billion of Ridgeway Court Funding II the
 same grades  as S&P.  The Justice Department case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill, 13-
00779, U.S. District Court, Central District of California (Los
Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  