-- Rockwood Said to Explore Sale of Ceramic-Materials Unit
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2013-02-08T21:15:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/rockwood-said-to-explore-sale-of-ceramic-materials-unit.html
Rockwood Holdings Inc. , the world’s
largest producer of lithium products, is considering the sale of
a ceramic-materials unit generating $550 million in annual
revenue, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The U.S. specialty chemical maker is working with  Lazard
Ltd.  to explore options for Plochingen, Germany-based  CeramTec ,
said the people, who asked not to be identified as the plan is
private. The process is in the early stages, they said. Rockwood
rose 7.9 percent in New York trading, the biggest gain since
April last year.  CeramTec may be valued at about $1 billion based on the
average multiple paid in ceramic products deals in North America
and western Europe in the last five years.  Rockwood Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Seifi Ghasemi 
is moving the Princeton, New Jersey-based company away from
commodities to lithium battery materials and surface treatments.
He’s already overseeing an exit from a titanium-dioxide venture
with  Kemira Oyj .  Tim McKenna , a spokesman for Rockwood, declined
to comment on a potential sale of CeramTec.  Chris Shaw , a New York-based analyst at Monness Crespi
Hardt & Co., said CeramTec may be even worth more than $1
billion.  ‘Attractive Multiple’  “It could actually attract pretty attractive multiple of
as much as 10 times” earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, he said by phone.  “If it could get that kind of valuation, it would be a
positive” for Rockwood, said Shaw, who rates the company a buy.
“As a whole, Rockwood trades at a lower multiple than that.”  CeramTec last year had an Ebitda of about $170 million on
sales of about $550 million. The average multiple paid in
ceramic material deals in North America and western Europe in
the last five years was 6.2 times Ebitda, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Rockwood closed at $59.43 in New York, valuing the company
at $4.6 billion. The stock rose 26 percent in 2012 while the
Bloomberg Americas Chemicals Index gained 22 percent.  CeramTec, founded in 1903 with a porcelain factory,
supplies ceramics to the electronics and auto industries, with
more than 3,600 employees worldwide today. The company got its
current name after Dynamit Nobel’s Cerasiv unit took over
Hoechst CeramTec. Rockwood agreed to  buy  the business in 2004.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  