-- Rupiah Forwards Gains for Fourth Week, Bonds Rise After Inflows
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2013-02-08T10:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/rupiah-forwards-poised-to-halt-three-week-gain-on-growth-outlook.html
Indonesia’s rupiah forwards gained
for a fourth week and government bonds advanced after overseas
investors pumped money into the nation’s assets.  Foreign funds bought $391 million more local stocks than
they sold this week through yesterday, the most since September,
exchange data show. They added 2.41 trillion rupiah ($249
million) to local-currency sovereign debt last week, the latest
finance ministry figures show. The economy  expanded  by more than
6 percent for a ninth quarter in the three months through
December, the government reported on Feb. 5.  “The rupiah is supported by inflows into stocks and bonds
on the back of solid macro fundamentals,” said Wiling Bolung,
the head of treasury at PT Bank ANZ Indonesia in Jakarta.
“Dollar supply in the market has improved significantly from
early January, giving the rupiah more room to strengthen.”  One-month non-deliverable forwards rose 0.3 percent today
and this week to 9,660 per dollar as of 4:26 p.m. in Jakarta,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The contracts traded at a 0.1
percent premium to the spot rate, which strengthened 0.3 percent
today to 9,667, prices from local banks show. A daily  fixing 
used to settle the derivatives was set at 9,685 today by the
Association of Banks in Singapore, compared with 9,727
yesterday.  Fixing Investigated  The rupiah’s one-month implied volatility, which measures
expected exchange-rate swings used to price options, was
unchanged today and this week at 6.5 percent.  Bank Indonesia will ask local lenders to create a new
benchmark as the Monetary Authority of Singapore investigates
the offshore fixing of the Association of Banks in Singapore to
determine whether there has been any manipulation, Deputy
Governor Hartadi Sarwono said yesterday. Malaysia’s central bank
told local lenders to use an onshore reference rate to settle
foreign-exchange derivative contracts, a person familiar with
the matter said on Jan. 29.  The yield on Indonesia’s 5.625 percent bonds due May 2023
fell two basis points today and this week to 5.25 percent,
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association show. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  The finance ministry plans to raise a record 15 trillion
rupiah by offering three-year sukuk for individual investors
today through Feb. 22 with a coupon of 6 percent, Dahlan Siamat,
Islamic financing director at the debt management office said
today. Similar-maturity non-Islamic government debt yields 4.51
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  