-- South Korea’s Park Names Former Prosecutor as Prime Minister
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2013-02-08T06:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/s-korea-s-park-nominates-former-prosecutor-as-prime-minister.html
South Korean President-elect  Park Geun Hye  nominated former prosecutor Chung Hong Won as prime
minister, in her second attempt to form a cabinet that will help
helm Asia’s fourth-largest economy.  Chung, 68, began his legal career as a prosecutor and until
August 2011 served as chief director of the Korean Legal Aid
Association. He also led a committee for political reform within
Park’s ruling New Frontier Party during parliamentary elections
last April.  “Chung is highly respected and trusted by the legal
community,” said Chin Young, deputy head of the presidential
transition committee, who announced the nomination today in
Seoul. “He has been nominated in consideration of his various
contributions to bring about a just society.”  Park, 61, will be inaugurated on Feb. 25 as South Korea’s
first woman leader. She faces slowing economic growth and
lagging exports amid the won’s continued rally and a rising
nuclear threat from North Korea, as public discontent increases
over growing inflation and a lack of job opportunities.  Nominees must undergo a parliamentary confirmation process
to secure their posts. The National Assembly has as many as 20
days to carry out the process.  The incoming president was criticized for naming an
unsuitable candidate when her first pick Kim Yong Jun withdrew
his candidacy five days after nomination on Jan. 24. Kim, the
74-year-old former president of the Constitutional Court of
Korea, resigned over allegations his sons were involved in
suspicious real-estate dealings.  Ordinary Person  “I interpret President-elect Park Geun Hye having named an
ordinary person like me to an important post as her intention to
value the everyman,” Chung told reporters today. “I see the
role of prime minister as one that accurately and justly assists
the president.”  Park today also named two key posts at the presidential
office, transition team official Chin said. She nominated former
Defense Minister  Kim Jang Soo  as national security chief and a
former Army Chief of Staff to helm presidential security.  The South Korean Constitution requires the president to
nominate ministers at the recommendation of the prime minister.
Park, the daughter of South Korea’s longest-serving military
dictator, has pledged to bolster the prime minister’s role.  Lawmakers from Park’s ruling New Frontier Party on Jan. 30
proposed amending the government organization act to abolish the
office of minister for special affairs and expand the prime
minister’s office to include a new bureau specializing in inter-
ministerial mediation.  Other major ministerial appointments will be announced next
week after the Feb. 9-11 Lunar New Year holiday, the transition
team said yesterday in an e-mailed statement without specifying
a date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net  