-- S. Korea Funds Record Largest Outflows Since 2009, Citi Says
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-02-08T04:36:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/s-korea-funds-record-largest-outflows-since-2009-citigroup-says.html
South Korean mutual funds recorded
the largest outflows since 2009 in the past week amid
“disappointing” earnings, according to Citigroup Inc.  The nation’s funds lost 5 percent of assets under
management, equal to $671 million of outflows, in the week ended
Feb. 6,  Markus Rosgen  and  Yue Hin Pong , Hong Kong-based
Citigroup analysts, wrote in a report today, citing EPFR data.
Asian funds lured $981 million, the 22nd straight week of
inflows, the analysts wrote.  South Korea’s  Kospi Index  has fallen 2.5 percent this year
as Samsung Electronics Co. predicted a stronger won may cut
operating profit by $2.8 billion this year and Hyundai Motor Co.
reported a decline in fourth-quarter earnings because of the
currency’s appreciation. Some 75 percent of Kospi companies have
reported quarterly profit that missed estimates, according to
 data  on 69 corporate results compiled by Bloomberg.  The past week’s fund outflows “are partly because of the
disappointing earnings season in Korea,” Pong wrote in an e-
mailed reply to questions today. “Analysts started cutting
their estimates.”  The Korean currency has strengthened 23 percent against the
yen in the past six months and appreciated 3.3 percent versus
the dollar. A stronger currency makes the nation’s exports more
expensive and less competitive against international rivals.  The Kospi added 0.9 percent to 1,949.36 as of 12:58 p.m. in
Seoul, poised to snap a six-day, 1.7 percent slump.  Hyundai, Kia  Korean stocks have “further downside risk” as the
strengthening won prompts international investors to extend
sales of local shares, according to a Barclays Plc report
released on Feb. 7. Expected economic stimulus by the new
government and changes in interest-income tax rules should
encourage local fund flows into equities, the report said. The
nation elected a new president in December.  Hyundai Motor Co., South Korea’s biggest automaker, has
declined 5.3 percent this year and Kia Motors Corp. slumped 8.3
percent. Hyundai said on Jan. 24 fourth-quarter net income sank
5.5 percent, while Kia reported a 51 percent slump in operating
profit the next day. Hyundai rallied 3.5 percent at 1:17 p.m.
local time, while Kia rebounded 3.8 percent.  Hyundai Motor Group, the group to which both automakers are
affiliated, expects the won to strengthen further this year, Kia
said in a Jan. 4 e-mail. Samsung forecast on Jan. 25 a slowdown
in smartphone demand in developed markets in the first quarter.  Vanguard ETF  A decision by Vanguard Group Inc. to drop South Korean
stocks from its emerging markets exchange-traded fund could lead
to $9 billion of outflows from equities in the first quarter,
Barclays said in a Feb. 4 note. Vanguard said Oct. 2 its $61
billion ETF would track an index compiled by FTSE Group, which
classifies South Korea as a developed market, instead of MSCI
Inc.’s gauge.  The International Monetary Fund is likely to pare its
forecast for South Korea’s economic growth for 2013, following
reduced estimates by the nation’s central bank on Jan. 11. The
full-year expansion may be about 3 percent, compared with a 3.9
percent estimate in September last year, country mission chief
 Hoe Ee Khor  said in an interview in Seoul last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  