-- Bet-The-Company Lawyer Steps In Between Government, S&P
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-09T02:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/s-p-lawyer-keker-brings-slashing-and-smashing-tactics.html
John Keker ’s San Francisco law firm
declares on its website that it takes the “the make or break
cases where companies, careers and reputations are riding on the
result.”  “True to our roots as trial lawyers, we relish the
courtroom battles,” the firm says.  Keker, a Marine Corps platoon leader during the Vietnam
War, may face as many as 18 of those judicial skirmishes as he
goes to war in defense of the bond ratings firm Standard &
Poor’s Financial Services LLC and its parent, the  McGraw-Hill
Cos.   S&P was sued this week by the U.S. Justice Department, 13
states and the District of Columbia for allegedly inflating
ratings on mortgage-backed securities to boost its own profit.
Illinois, Connecticut and Mississippi previously sued the New
York-based company.  The U.S. alone seeks as much as $5 billion in penalties.
The defendants, which deny wrongdoing, this week added Keker to
a defense team that already included free-speech advocate  Floyd Abrams  and his New York-based law firm,  Cahill Gordon & Reindel
LLP .  “John Keker will have a central role in the trial of this
case if there is a trial,” Abrams said in a Feb. 7 phone
interview.  “Cahill Gordon and I will be working with him.”  Abrams said the precise division of labor among the lawyers
hasn’t been determined. Lawyers from both firms will be in court
for any trial, he said.  ‘Extraordinary Skill’  Abrams said his co-counsel was hired for his
“extraordinary skill as a trial lawyer.” Keker didn’t respond
to phone or e-mail requests seeking comment on his role in the
case.  His clients have included former Black Panther Party leader
 Eldridge Cleaver  and banned cyclist  Lance Armstrong , as well as
vindicated investment banker  Frank Quattrone ,  Enron Corp .
executive  Andrew Fastow  and class action lawyer  William Lerach .  A founding partner of  Keker & Van Nest LLP , Keker, 69, was
once voted by 100 of his California colleagues as the first
lawyer they’d hire if they were charged with a serious crime.  “His name was mentioned more often than any other when our
surveyed lawyers were asked who they’d turn to,” California
Lawyer magazine  reported in 2001 .  ‘Slashing and Smashing’  In a 2003 Bloomberg News profile, Keker said he honed his
“slashing and smashing” defense tactics in white-collar crime
trials and corporate litigation.  “He’s not afraid of anything,”  Cristina Arguedas , a
criminal defense lawyer who has known Keker since 1980, said in
a Feb. 7 interview. The two have represented co-defendants in at
least 30 cases, she said.  “He’s not your typical big firm, white-collar lawyer. He’s
a real fighter. He lives to try cases,” said Arguedas of
Arguedas Cassman & Headley in Berkeley, California. Her clients
have included former San Francisco Giants outfielder  Barry Bonds , who was convicted of obstructing a federal probe of
performance-enhancing drugs, and former Atheros Communications
Inc. Vice President  Ali Hariri , who pleaded guilty in the
Galleon Group LLC insider-trading probe.  Keker’s greatest strength, she said, is his ability to
“see defenses that other people maybe don’t see and make them
simple to understand.”  Ohio, Illinois  Cahill Gordon has defended S&P from allegations of bond
ratings hype leveled by attorneys general in Ohio and Illinois.  “Cahill is our firm,”  Edward Sweeney , an S&P spokesman,
said Feb. 6 in a phone interview.  Last year, Abrams successfully argued against an appeal by
Ohio, which in 2011 lost a case claiming five public employee
pension funds were misled by securities’ ratings assigned by S&P
and two other firms.  In November, Abrams’s firm failed to win dismissal of a
year-old case against S&P brought by Illinois Attorney General
 Lisa Madigan .  A state court judge in Chicago rejected defense arguments
that the alleged misrepresentations by S&P were opinions, making
them speech protected by the U.S. Constitution’s First
Amendment.  “I don’t have any magic First Amendment wand in my pocket
for this one,” Abrams, 76, said Feb. 5 of the U.S. allegations
in a Bloomberg Television interview.  Fraud Case  “It’s not a First Amendment case because the government is
alleging that S&P didn’t believe what it said,” Abrams said.
“The First Amendment doesn’t protect against that.”  Abrams denied S&P had committed any fraud in rating
collateralized debt obligations from 2004 to 2007.  “The ratings were independent,” he said. “The ratings
were the best judgment by S&P at the time about what the future
would bring.”  Catherine Mathis , an S&P spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed
statement after the Justice Department sued that the company
would defend itself against “these unwarranted claims.”  “Claims that we deliberately kept ratings high when we
knew they should be lower are simply not true,” she said.  The federal case was assigned to U.S. District Judge  David O. Carter  in Santa Ana, California.  Carter, 68, was nominated by President  Bill Clinton  in
1998. Before becoming a federal judge, he was an Orange County
homicide prosecutor and a California state court judge. He
earned a Bronze Star and a Purple Heart during his service with
the U.S. Marine Corps in Vietnam.  Vietnam, Yale  Keker graduated in 1965 from Princeton University in New
Jersey and served as a U.S. Marine Corps infantry platoon leader
in Vietnam, according to a  biography  on his law firm’s website.
After being wounded and retiring in 1967 from the corps, he
graduated from Yale Law School in 1970 and clerked for Supreme
Court Chief Justice  Earl Warren  from 1970 to 1971, according to
the website.  He was part of the special prosecution team in the case
against  Oliver North , the U.S. Marine Corps lieutenant colonel
enmeshed in the Iran-Contra scandal that enveloped the later
years of President  Ronald Reagan ’s second term as president.  Keker defended Quattrone in successive trials on charges of
obstruction of justice and witness tampering. The case against
Quattrone was based partly on e-mails in which the Credit Suisse
banker allegedly told subordinates to “clean up” their files
after learning of a pending grand jury investigation into the
firm’s allocation of shares in initial public offerings.  Quattrone Juries  While the first jury deadlocked in 2003, the second
convicted Quattrone on the obstruction charge in 2004. Keker
sparred with U.S. District Judge  Richard Owen  at both trials,
accusing him of interfering with the defense.  During the first trial, Owen likened Keker to “a fire
hydrant on the corner of somewhere in New York City in the
summer and I can’t turn you off.”  Prosecutors dropped the case after the U.S. Court of
Appeals in New York threw out the conviction in 2006 and ordered
a new judge be assigned.  Later that year, Keker won leniency for Fastow, who had
pleaded guilty to separate counts of conspiracy to commit wire
fraud and securities fraud, then testified against Enron founder
 Kenneth Lay  and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Skilling .  While Fastow’s plea agreement called for a 10-year prison
term, Keker cited his client’s cooperation with prosecutors and
got a reduction to six years.  Keker also represented the lawyer Lerach, who had recovered
more than $7 billion for investors who sued Enron. Lerach
pleaded guilty to paying client kickbacks and agreed to forfeit
$7.75 million.  Lance Armstrong  Representing Armstrong, who was stripped of his seven Tour
de France victories and who admitted in January to doping during
his career, Keker and his firm spoke with federal investigators
in 2011 about Armstrong’s belief that information from a grand
jury probe had been leaked to the media.  “The leaker(s) have made it abundantly clear that these
leaks come from the investigation’s inner circle,” Keker said
in a court filing in July 2011. The leaking was similar to what
happened in a federal investigation of steroid use among Major
League Baseball players, he said.  Keker’s firm asked for a court order directing
investigators to show why they shouldn’t be held in contempt for
violating grand jury secrecy rules.  The U.S. Attorney’s office in Los Angeles announced Feb. 3,
2012, that a criminal investigation of Armstrong’s team was
closing without charges being brought.  “He is a criminal defense lawyer,” Arguedas said of
Keker. “You can see that in all the ways in which he approaches
the case. He’s not a government guy. He never was a government
guy.”  The case is U.S. v. McGraw-Hill Cos., 13-00779, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  