-- Saenz Says Rajoy Won’t Let Graft Allegations Distract Him
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2013-02-08T14:59:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/saenz-says-rajoy-won-t-let-graft-allegations-distract-him.html
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  won’t
allow corruption allegations to distract him from tackling
Spain’s economic crisis, said his deputy,  Soraya Saenz de Santamaria .  Rajoy, in Brussels negotiating the European Union’s seven-
year budget, will press on with his economic reforms even as the
opposition Socialist party calls for his resignation over
newspaper reports he accepted illegal cash payments, Saenz said.  “We have a government that is going ahead with its reform
plans, that is passing laws and changing the country,” she said
at a press conference in Madrid today. “That is the stability
this government’s work is creating.”  Rajoy on Feb. 2 denied reports in El Pais newspaper that he
received more than 250,000 euros ($335,000) over 11 years from a
secret slush fund managed by the former treasurer of his
governing People’s Party. Support for the PP dropped 6
percentage points from the previous month to 24 percent in a
poll by Metroscopia published by El Pais on Feb. 3, wiping out
the party’s advantage over the main opposition Socialists.  “Of course the government is worried,” Saenz said today.
“The government is being very rigorous to improve transparency.
I can guarantee you decisive measures will be taken to fight
corruption.”  El Pais, Spain’s best-selling newspaper, reproduced on Jan.
31 what it said were extracts from handwritten ledgers by the
ex-PP treasurer,  Luis Barcenas , showing payments to party
officials including Rajoy. Metroscopia interviewed 1,000 people
between Jan. 30 and Feb. 1 and the margin of error was 3.2
percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  