-- Saudi Prince Sues Los Angeles Over Permits for Mansion
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2013-02-09T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/saudi-prince-sues-los-angeles-over-permits-for-mansion.html
Prince Abdul-Aziz ibn Abdul-Aziz al
Saud, Saudi Arabia’s deputy foreign minister, sued the city of
Los Angeles over claims it illegally refuses to issue building
permits for a mansion because of pressure from neighbors.  Abdul-Aziz’s company, Tower Lane Properties Inc., filed a
complaint Feb. 5 in state court in Los Angeles, seeking a court
order for the city to find it in compliance with permit
conditions and demanding $25 million in damages. It’s the third
case the prince has brought against the city over the project.  “Our client had hoped that following last year’s victory
in court the city would treat his application fairly and process
it without further delay,”  Benjamin Reznik , a lawyer
representing Abdul-Aziz, said in a statement. “He is greatly
disappointed and disheartened by the overt discriminatory
treatment he has received.”  The prince is seeking permits to build three mansions for
himself and his family on three adjoining properties in Benedict
Canyon, a neighborhood in the Santa Monica Mountains north of
Beverly Hills. The estate used to belong to film director King
Vidor. Abdul-Aziz acquired the properties in 2009, according to
the complaint.  ‘Blatantly Xenophobic’  Neighbors have opposed the development, including creating
a website that, according to the complaint, is “blatantly
xenophobic” and urging the community with e-mails and mailers
“to stay involved to protect our community from the Prince’s
massive plans.”  The city, influenced by the project’s opponents, has thrown
up “one unjustifiable obstacle after another to the issuance of
the permits,” according to the complaint.  Frank Mateljan , a spokesman for Los Angeles City Attorney
 Carmen A. Trutanich , didn’t immediately return a call yesterday
seeking comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Tower Lane Properties v. City of Los Angeles,
BS141623, Los Angeles County Superior Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in the Los Angeles federal courthouse at  epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 