-- SEC Says Chicago Man Lured Chinese Investors in Citizenship Scam
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2013-02-08T20:26:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/sec-says-chicago-man-lured-chinese-investors-in-citizenship-scam.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission sued a Chicago man over claims he fraudulently raised
more than $145 million primarily from Chinese investors by
promising that their investments would provide a pathway to U.S.
citizenship.  Anshoo R. Sethi, 29, over the past 18 months duped more
than 250 investors into believing that backing his project to
build a hotel would give them access to the EB-5 Immigrant
Investor Pilot  Program , the SEC said in a Feb. 6 complaint
unsealed today at U.S. District Court in Illinois. Certain
investors who create or preserve at least 10 jobs for U.S.
workers can get U.S. residency permits through the program.  Sethi falsely told investors that his companies had
acquired all the necessary building permits and that several
major hotel chains had signed onto the project to construct the
“World’s First Zero Carbon Emission Platinum LEED certified”
hotel and conference center near Chicago’s O’Hare International
Airport, the SEC said. Meanwhile, Sethi and his companies have
spent more than 90 percent of the $11 million in administrative
fees collected from investors, according to the complaint.  “Sethi orchestrated an elaborate scheme and exploited
these investors’ dream of earning legal U.S. residence along
with a positive return on their investment in a project that was
not nearly the done deal he portrayed,” Stephen Cohen,
associate director of the SEC’s enforcement division, said in a
statement.  A phone call to a number listed for Sethi was not
immediately returned.  The Chicago Tribune  reported  last year that Illinois
Governor  Pat Quinn ’s administration had originally supported
Sethi’s project. In January 2012, however, state officials
demanded that Sethi remove Quinn’s image and the state’s seal
from materials he used to solicit investors, the Tribune
reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  