-- SEC Nominee White’s Disclosure Report Shows Possible Conflicts
-- B y   D a v e   M i c h a e l s
-- 2013-02-09T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/sec-nominee-white-s-disclosure-report-shows-possible-conflicts.html
Mary Jo White , President  Barack Obama ’s nominee to lead the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, said she will avoid some matters involving firms
including  JPMorgan Chase & Co .,  General Electric Co . and
Deloitte & Touche LLP if confirmed by the Senate.  White, a former U.S. prosecutor who is retiring as a
partner in the law firm  Debevoise & Plimpton LLP , outlined her
recusal plans in cases involving former clients in a letter
accompanying her financial disclosure report. She reported
earning more than $2.4 million from her partnership stake last
year.  The report, which also lists former  Bank of America Corp. 
Chief Executive Officer  Kenneth D. Lewis , former  Goldman Sachs 
Group Inc. director  Rajat Gupta  and  UBS AG  as clients,
underscores White’s longstanding ties to Wall Street as a top
defense lawyer. She may face questions over potential conflicts
of interest at her Senate confirmation hearing, which hasn’t
been scheduled.  Obama nominated White for SEC chairman on Jan. 24, praising
her tenure as U.S. attorney for the southern district of New
York from 1993 to 2002. She will be a “cop on the beat” of the
financial system and help “complete the task of reforming Wall
Street,” the president said.  In her letter, White wrote that “for a period of one year
after my retirement” from the law firm, she would “not
participate personally and substantially in any particular
matter involving specific parties in which Debevoise & Plimpton
LLP is a party or represents a party.”  Executive Order  Under an executive order signed by Obama in 2009, White
must sign an ethics pledge that forbids her from participating
in particular matters involving former clients or Debevoise for
two years.  The two-year pledge is written in a way that could allow
White to work on some issues that have ties to Debevoise or her
former clients, said Kenneth A. Gross, a partner at  Skadden,
Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP .  “This would give her a good bit of latitude to regulate a
former client because this restriction is narrow,” said Gross,
who advises political appointees on government ethics laws.  Scott H. Kimpel , a former counsel to SEC commissioner  Troy A. Paredes , said White’s participation in SEC business related
to Debevoise or former clients would have to be reviewed by the
SEC’s office of ethics counsel.  Enforcement cases, rather than regulatory votes, would be
most likely to raise potential conflicts of interest for White,
Kimpel said in a phone interview. Some commissioners recuse
themselves from any issues involving former clients or law firms
during their entire term at the SEC, Kimpel said.  Client List  “Anytime Debevoise is a defense counsel in the enforcement
space, she is going to have to recuse,” said Kimpel, now a
partner at Hunton & Williams in Washington.  White’s other clients at Debevoise have included  News
Corp. ’s independent directors,  Microsoft Corp . and officers of
 MoneyGram International Inc . She also has represented  Howard Udell , a Purdue Pharma LP general counsel who pleaded guilty to
criminal charges of misrepresenting the prescription painkiller
OxyContin as less likely to be abused than other narcotics.  She and her husband,  John W. White , have grown wealthy
during more than three decades as elite New York lawyers. The
couple reported assets valued between $9.9 million and $41
million, largely in index and exchange-traded funds, according
to her financial disclosure report. The form requires
administration nominees and officials to disclose the value of
assets as a range, not a specific figure.  Couple’s Income  The couple reported income of between $3 million and $8.7
million during 2012, including her salary at Debevoise. John
White, who was the director of the SEC’s corporation finance
unit from 2006 to 2008, is a partner at Cravath, Swaine & Moore
LLP.  In her ethics letter, Mary Jo White wrote that she would
receive a lump-sum retirement payment from Debevoise upon
confirmation as SEC chairman. The letter doesn’t indicate how
much she would receive, though the disclosure form indicates she
is eligible to receive $42,500 a month at retirement.  She wrote in the letter that she will forgo a retiree
benefit that entitles her to use of “secretarial services,
office space and a BlackBerry at the firm’s expense.”  White will also get a payout of money she contributed to
Debevoise as an equity partner. Her disclosure form values her
interest in the firm at between $500,001 and $1 million.  She also said in the letter that she will avoid
participating in matters involving three private investment
funds in which her husband is an investor. He plans to divest
his interest in the funds if she is confirmed, according to the
letter.  John White has agreed to not communicate with the SEC “on
behalf of the firm or any client” while his wife is chairman,
she wrote in the letter. His practice involves advising firms on
public reporting requirements and corporate governance matters,
according to Cravath’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dave Michaels in Washington at 
 dmichaels5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  