-- Senate Democrats Close to Plan for Delaying Spending Cuts
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2013-02-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/senate-democrats-close-to-plan-for-delaying-spending-cuts.html
U.S. Senate Democrats are close to
proposing a $120 billion plan for a 10-month delay in automatic
spending cuts for defense and domestic programs set to begin
March 1, according to a Senate Democratic aide.  Half of the cost of putting off the across-the-board cuts
would be covered by revenue increases and the other half by
spending cuts, said the aide, who asked not to be identified in
discussing the proposal.  The plan would set a minimum 30 percent effective tax rate
for the highest earners, a provision known as the “Buffett
Rule” after billionaire investor  Warren Buffett . It also would
deny companies the ability to deduct the costs of moving jobs
and investments out of the U.S., the aide said.  Next month’s deadline for the cuts to take effect marks
another fiscal showdown between President  Barack Obama  and
Republicans. Unless Congress acts, $1.2 trillion in across-the-
board spending cuts, known as sequestration, will take effect,
weighing on U.S. economic growth.  The Obama administration yesterday began a public campaign
to head off the automatic cuts, which White House officials said
would reduce spending on education, small business loans, food
safety inspections and defense.  The reductions “would cause very significant disruptions
that would be felt far and wide across the country,”  Danny Werfel , federal controller of the Office of Management and
Budget, said yesterday during a White House briefing.  ‘No Reason’  Werfel said the effects would include 600,000 women and
children losing nutrition assistance, 70,000 children taken out
of early childhood education programs, 2,100 fewer food
inspections, and a reduction of as many as 12,000 scientists and
students conducting research on disease or innovation.  “There is no reason, no reason, for that to happen,”
Obama said yesterday at a farewell ceremony for Defense
Secretary  Leon Panetta . “Putting our fiscal house in order
calls for a balanced approach, not massive, indiscriminate cuts
that could have a severe impact on our military preparedness.”  House Speaker  John Boehner  has said that he would oppose
any delay in the automatic reductions unless Congress replaces
them with other “cuts and reforms.” He said it’s time for
Obama and Senate Democrats to come up with a plan, saying he is
“more than willing” to work with them.  Boehner’s spokesman, Brendan Buck, said yesterday that the
Ohio Republican agrees that sequestration is the wrong way to
cut spending. Still, he said Obama got a $650 billion tax
increase on top earners as part of the last budget deal enacted
on Jan. 2 and that it’s time to make cuts in federal spending.  Senate Plan  The Senate plan being considered includes more specific
defense reductions and cuts to agricultural subsidies, the aide
said. The revenue proposals Democrats are pursuing have been
rejected before by the Senate, which Democrats control 55-45.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
on ABC’s “This Week” on Feb. 3 that he would focus on “low-
hanging fruit” for coming up with the revenue.  Eliminating tax breaks for oil and gas companies and for
corporate-jet owners were other examples Reid cited.  Last year, the Buffett Rule proposal was estimated to raise
$47 billion over 10 years. Lawmakers haven’t released an updated
figure, though the amount raised will be higher because it will
be compared with lower rates on dividends and the changes to the
alternative minimum tax that were part of the Jan. 2 law.  A similar proposal last year from Senator  Debbie Stabenow ,
a Michigan Democrat, to eliminate incentives for companies to
move jobs overseas would have raised $168 million over a decade.  Job Losses  Werfel briefed reporters yesterday with  Jason Furman ,
principal deputy director of the White House National Economic
Council, as the administration sought to ramp up pressure on
Republicans for a deal.  Furman said the cut in spending would cost “hundreds of
thousands of jobs” in the U.S., including federal employees.  While there are signs of strength in the housing market and
gains in hiring, forecasters predict a slower U.S. economic
expansion this year as tax increases and spending cuts crimp
growth and the global economy remains weak.  After the U.S. economy advanced at a 3.1 percent annual
rate in the third quarter, the government reported last week
that it stalled in the final three months of the year,
registering a 0.1 percent decline in part because of lower
defense spending. The median estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg is for growth of just 2 percent this year.  CBO Forecast  The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office said in its
latest forecast on Feb. 5 that the economy would expand by just
1.4 percent in 2013, partly because of budget-cutting in
Washington. It predicts growth would increase to 3.4 percent the
following year.  Furman said the White House had “no opinion” on the
agency’s forecast, while adding that “they’re never very far
off” in their estimates.  The Defense Department already is preparing for the
prospect of reduced funding this year. Panetta has delayed the
deployment of an aircraft carrier to the Persian Gulf to save
money and the Pentagon has issued a memo authorizing the firing
of temporary defense workers and unpaid leave for civilian
employees.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  