-- Cantor Acquires Seymour Pierce Units Out of Administration
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2013-02-08T18:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/seymour-pierce-placed-in-administration-stock-exchange-says-1-.html
Cantor Fitzgerald LP, the U.S.
brokerage led by  Howard Lutnick , agreed to buy parts of Seymour
Pierce Ltd., a 168-year-old British stockbroker, out of
administration.  The purchase includes the broker’s corporate finance team,
New York-based Cantor said in an e-mailed statement. Seymour
Pierce had sought protection from creditors earlier today,
according to a statement from the London Stock Exchange. The
transaction’s terms weren’t disclosed.  The purchase adds to Cantor’s expansion in Europe. The
company said in July it would hire 17 people from the capital
markets division of Canaccord Financial Inc. in London to start
a corporate advisory business in Europe. In December, the firm
bought Ireland’s Dolmen Stockbrokers. Cantor said today’s deal
will add more than 70 European clients and increase market
coverage by 250 stocks.  The deal helps “accelerate our strategy to provide full-
service corporate finance and advisory services for clients, and
to expand the reach and product specialization of our
established European equities business,” said  James Rowsell ,
CEO of Cantor Fitzgerald Europe.  Like other small British stockbrokers, Seymour Pierce has
faced a squeeze on revenue and fees amid Europe’s debt crisis
and competition from international firms. In the past three
years, U.K. brokerages including Evolution Group Plc have been
acquired by larger competitors. Canadian broker  Canaccord 
completed its 253 million-pound ($399 million) takeover of
 Collins Stewart Hawkpoint  last year.  Forcier’s Role  Seymour Pierce CEO  Tom Forcier  will become chief operating
officer of Cantor Fitzgerald Europe, Cantor said. The U.K. firm
traces its origins on the London Stock Exchange to 1845, with
the name Seymour Pierce & Co. being adopted in 1883, according
to its website. It also provides equity capital markets and
advisory services to its clients.  In Britain, companies can file for administration to gain
protection from creditors and lawsuits, allowing them time to
find a buyer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  