-- Shanghai B Shares Poised to Catch Shenzhen on Hong Kong Move
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-02-08T08:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/shanghai-b-shares-poised-to-catch-shenzhen-on-move-to-hong-kong.html
Chinese B  shares , created in 1992 for
foreign investors, have soared to a two-year high in Shenzhen on
speculation that more companies will seek to list in Hong Kong,
where companies are awarded higher valuations. Their Shanghai-
traded peers, which have lagged behind, may join the bonanza.  China International Marine Containers Group Co. , the
world’s biggest container maker, and China Vanke Co., the
nation’s largest publicly traded property developer, announced
plans to move their stock listings from Shenzhen to Hong Kong,
where the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index trades at 8.8 times
estimated profit.  Investors seeking to get in before the next announcement
have fueled a 49 percent rally the past five months in the
Shenzhen B-Share Index, which tracks foreign-denominated
listings in China’s second-biggest bourse, outpacing the
 Shanghai B-Share Index ’s 28 percent surge. The Shanghai gauge is
valued at 8.8 times estimated profit, compared with 12.6 for the
Shenzhen index, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Shenzhen has
traded at an average 3 percent premium to Shanghai the past five
years.  “Shanghai’s B shares will eventually catch up with
Shenzhen’s,”  Li Jun , a strategist at Central China Securities
Co. in Shanghai, said by phone on Feb. 4. “Shanghai’s B-share
companies can move trading to Hong Kong as well.”  Higher Volume  The Shanghai B-share index gained 0.7 percent at the close
today while the Shenzhen gauge rose 1.1 percent. The benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index added 0.6 percent.  Some $7.3 billion of Hong Kong shares changed hands each
day on average in the past year, 73 times the combined amount of
B shares in Shanghai and Shenzhen,  data  compiled by Bloomberg
show. B shares, traded in U.S. or Hong Kong dollars, were
created to give companies a way to raise funds from
international investors who had previously been banned from
buying A shares.  “Shanghai is cheap,”  Hao Hong , Bank of Communications
Co.’s Hong Kong-based China strategist, wrote in a Feb. 5 e-
mail. “The stocks have moved, but not as dramatically as
Shenzhen.”  The Shenzhen B-share index’s valuation has jumped 27
percent since CIMC announced its stock conversion plan on Aug.
15. CIMC started trading its B shares in Hong Kong Dec. 20. The
stock closed at HK$16.08 today, 66 percent higher than the B
shares’ last price of HK$9.70 on Nov. 29.  Vanke Conversion  Vanke will seek shareholder and regulatory approval for its
conversion, the company said in a Jan. 18 statement. Investors
who choose not to swap their stock will get cash. The
developer’s B-shares have jumped 22 percent since the
announcement, as its yuan-denominated A shares rose 19 percent.  Livzon Pharmaceutical Group Inc. , a drugmaker based in the
province of Guangdong, announced its stock conversion plan on
Jan. 31, boosting its B shares by 24 percent.  Gains in Shanghai’s B shares may not match Shenzhen because
they are mostly companies that are state controlled,  Zhang Qi ,
an analyst at Haitong Securities Co., said in a phone interview
from the city on Jan. 31. His firm is China’s second-largest
publicly traded brokerage.  Forty-seven of the 53 companies in the  Shanghai B-Share
Index  are majority owned by state-controlled enterprises,
according to shareholder data compiled by Bloomberg. More than
25 percent of government-run enterprises are unprofitable and
productivity growth has trailed non-state firms by about 66
percent the past three decades, the World Bank said in a
February 2012 report.  ‘Big Names’  “Global investors don’t like these smaller and poorly-run
companies,” Zhang said. “What they care about are big names
like Vanke and CIMC.”  The Shanghai B-Share Index has a market capitalization of
$15.5 billion, 30 percent less than the value of the  Shenzhen B-
Share Index , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Shenzhen gauge also tracks 53 companies.  The B shares of Shanghai-listed  INESA Electron Co.  have
climbed 36 percent in the past six months and trade for 43 times
reported profit. The company was the first to offer B shares in
1992, when it was known as Shanghai Vacuum Electron Devices Co.
INESA doesn’t plan to buy back or move its stock to Hong Kong,
Hu Huijie, the company’s representative for securities affairs,
said by phone on Feb. 4.  Bank of Communications’ Hong says all Chinese companies may
move their B shares to Hong Kong as the stock loses its
relevance to international investors. The China Securities
Regulatory Commission introduced the qualified foreign
institutional investor program in 2002 that allows overseas
investors access to more heavily traded A shares.  Quotas Raised  The regulator more than doubled available QFII quotas to
$80 billion in April. That amount can be increased, CSRC
Chairman  Guo Shuqing  said at a conference in Hong Kong on Jan.
14. Mainland Chinese equities have a market capitalization of
$3.24 trillion, compared with $18 trillion in the U.S., data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  An average of $100.1 million of Shanghai and Shenzhen B-
shares changed hands each day in the past year, 0.6 percent of
the average for  A shares , the data show.  “As more and more companies leave the B-share market,
you’ll see less incentive for the remainder to stay,” Hong
said. “The opportunities are still with the Shenzhen B shares,
but Shanghai being a laggard will eventually resolve as well.”  -- Zhang Shidong . Editors: Darren Boey, Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Zhang Shidong  in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  