-- Singapore Population to Be Below 6.9 Million in 2030, Lee Says
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n
-- 2013-02-08T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/singapore-population-to-be-below-6-9-million-in-2030-lee-says.html
Singapore, which is boosting
infrastructure to accommodate a population of 6.9 million by
2030, said the number of people in the city state will be
“significantly” lower than what it is planning for.  The government won’t decide on a population trajectory
beyond 2020, Prime Minister  Lee Hsien Loong  said in Parliament
yesterday as lawmakers from his ruling party endorsed a white
paper that outlined proposals including allowing more foreigners
into the country to boost the workforce. Opposition members
rejected the motion, saying immigration as a policy to spur
economic growth is not sustainable.  Record-high housing and transport costs, public discontent
over an influx of foreigners and infrastructure strains in the
country of 5.3 million people are weakening approval for  Lee ’s
party. Singaporeans are planning a protest next week against the
government’s population projections for 2030, which could see
citizens, including new ones, making up only one of every two
people on the island smaller in size than New York City.  “We will track and control the number of non-Singaporeans
and the inflow of immigrants so that we are not overhauled just
by the sheer flood of people coming in,” Lee said. “We are not
deciding on a population of 6.9 million for 2030 now.”  Lee’s administration is under pressure to placate voters
without disrupting the entry of talent and labor that helped
forge the only advanced economy in Southeast Asia. His party
lost two by-elections after returning to power in May 2011 with
the lowest share of the popular vote since independence in 1965.  Longest Debate  The five-day debate focused on setting a framework to
address Singapore’s demographic challenges of an aging
population and a shrinking workforce. Deputy Prime Minister  Teo Chee Hean  said it’s the longest debate he can remember in his
two decades in politics.  There may be as many as 6 million people in Singapore by
2020, according to the white paper, which also included plans to
increase housing availability and improve transportation
networks. The island’s population has jumped by more than 1.1
million since mid-2004, stoking social tensions as the
government used immigration to make up for a low birth rate.  “We believe that the greater well-being of Singaporeans
lies in sustainable economic growth driven by increases in our
productivity and in our resident workforce, rather than further
increases in our dependency on imported foreign labor,”  Sylvia Lim , a member of Parliament who is chairman of the Workers’
Party, said in a statement after the parliamentary vote.  Her party, the only opposition with elected representatives
in the legislative body, proposes the nation should have a
population of not more than 5.9 million by 2030.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Chen in Singapore at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  