-- Southeastern Vows to Fight Dell Buyout Over Price
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-02-09T01:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/southeastern-vows-to-fight-dell-buyout-over-price.html
Michael Dell faces mounting
opposition to his plan to take  Dell Inc.  private as the
company’s largest outside shareholder vowed to block the $24
billion buyout because it “grossly undervalues” the personal
computer maker.  Southeastern Asset Management, the holder of an 8.5 percent
stake in Dell that it began accumulating in 2005, sent a letter
to Dell’s board expressing its “extreme disappointment” with
the buyout offer of $13.65 a share announced on Feb. 5. Based on
an analysis included in the letter, Southeastern said Dell is
worth at least $24 a share.  Southeastern is the biggest institutional investor to voice
its opposition to the buyout reached by founder Michael Dell and
Silver Lake Management LLC, which faces growing dissent from
shareholders. Richard Pzena, founder of Pzena Investment
Management, said yesterday he will vote against the transaction.
Donald Yacktman of Yacktman Asset Management said that the
transaction may not go through at the current price and Harris
Associates LP’s William C. Nygren said Feb.5 that he would
“create a ruckus” if his firm were to find out that better
alternatives exist to the one that Dell’s board agreed to.  “The price is completely out of proportion to what’s
reasonable,” Pzena, founder and co-chief investment officer of
the New York-based firm that bears his name, said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “Southeastern laid out the case
brilliantly; we think $24 a share is fair,” said Pzena, whose
firm held 12.7 million Dell shares as of Dec. 31, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Proxy Fight  O. Mason Hawkins and Staley Cates, the top officers at the
Memphis, Tennessee-based Southeastern, vowed to use all options
at their disposal to block the buyout, including a potential
proxy fight or litigation. The deal will be subject to a vote by
“unaffiliated” shareholders, Dell said in a statement
announcing the deal. The buyout calls for Michael Dell to
contribute his stake in the company as well as additional cash,
while Microsoft Corp. will provide a $2 billion loan to help
finance the transaction. It ranks as the biggest leveraged
buyout in technology since 2007.  The deal “appears to be an effort to acquire Dell at a
substantial discount to intrinsic value at the expense of public
shareholders,” Southeastern said in the letter, a copy of which
was included in a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. “Southeastern intends to retain and avail itself of
all options at its disposal to oppose the announced
transaction,” including a proxy fight, litigation and any
rights to an appraisal of Dell’s fair value under Delaware law,
according to the letter.  Client Sale  At least one of Southeastern’s clients decided that the
buyout price, or something close to it, was sufficient. The firm
disclosed in the SEC filing that it sold 943,334 Dell shares
“at the direction of a client” at $13.46 each on Feb. 6 and 7,
after the deal had been announced.  “I would be surprised if it went through at the price
Michael Dell is proposing,” Yacktman, whose firm bought almost
15 million shares in the fourth quarter, said yesterday in a
telephone interview from his officer in Austin, Texas. “There
will be other people feeling a lot like Southeastern does.”  Gordon Goldstein, a spokesman at Silver Lake, declined to
comment on the letter. Jed Repko, a Southeastern spokesman,
declined to comment beyond the letter.  ‘Attractive’ Premium  “The transaction offers an attractive and immediate
premium for stockholders and shifts the risks facing the
business to the buyer group,” David Frink, a spokesman for
Dell, said in an e-mailed statement. “The go-shop process
provides stockholders an opportunity to determine if there are
alternatives that are superior to the present offer.”  Southeastern, which manages the $8 billion  Longleaf
Partners Fund , has previously lauded Michael Dell, describing
him in an August report to clients of the fund as “one of the
most vested and engaged CEOs we have as a partner.” Dell is
struggling to keep up with nimbler competitors in mobile and
cloud computing, after years of trying to diversify from
personal computers, which make up about half of sales.  Southeastern started buying Dell shares in the third
quarter of 2005 and built its stake to 130.9 million shares by
the middle of 2007, when the price ranged from $19.91 to $41.54
a share. Southeastern’s stake varied in size after that,
reaching a high of 168 million shares at the end of the first
quarter of 2009, when the stock traded at an average price of
$9.59 a share.  Southeastern’s Cost  Yesterday’s filing discloses that Southeastern paid about
$2.06 billion, or $16.88 a share, for the 122.3 million shares
it now holds. The money management firm had previously reported
paying about $213 million for options on 25 million Dell shares.
Based on the buyout price, Southeastern would realize a loss of
almost $400 million on its shares should the buyout proceed.  “We’re not surprised,” Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee
& Leach Inc., said of Southeastern’s opposition in an e-mail.
“We had said that it remains to be seen if the deal would pass
given the modest premium to recent closing prices.” Wu has a
“neutral” rating on Dell.  Southeastern said its larger concern is missing out on
future gains should Dell shares reach its estimate of the
company’s intrinsic value. The money-management firm said in
yesterday’s letter that it would have endorsed a leveraged
recapitalization that would require Dell to borrow $9 billion to
help pay shareholders a special dividend of $12 a share, or a
go-private type sale where shareholders could choose to
participate in a new company with a “public stub.”  Depriving Shareholders  The current offer “deprives public shareholders of the
ability to participate in the company’s substantial future value
creation,” Southeastern said in the letter.  Michael Dell and other company directors were sued this
week by an investor, Catherine Christner, who claimed the
computer maker’s board is shortchanging shareholders in the
management-led buyout. Dell abused his status as the company’s
top executive and board chairman, lawyers for Christner said
Feb. 6 in a lawsuit filed in Delaware Chancery Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  