-- Soybeans, Corn Plunge as USDA Sees Biggest Inventories
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2013-02-08T22:51:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/soybeans-corn-plunge-as-usda-sees-biggest-inventories.html
Soybean futures fell the most in
three months and corn extended the longest slump since December
after the U.S. government forecasts bigger global inventories of
both crops than analysts expected.  Soybean  inventories  on Oct. 1 will reach 60.12 million
metric tons, more than the 59.46 million estimated in January
and 8.8 percent larger than a year earlier, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture said today in a report. Corn reserves will be
118.04 million tons, up from 115.99 million predicted last
month. Analysts expected soybean reserves to drop to 59.07
million tons and corn at 115.57 million.  Larger inventories may reduce feed costs for pork producer
Smithfield Foods Inc. and poultry processor Sanderson Farms Inc.
and make grain cheaper for ethanol producers including Archer-
Daniels-Midland Co. and Poet LLC, after the worst drought since
the 1930s cut production last year and sent corn and soybean
prices to record highs.  “There is no shortage of soybeans,”  Dale Durchholz , the
senior market analyst at AgriVisor LLC in Bloomington, Illinois,
said in a telephone interview. “The world food pantry has
dodged a bullet, but it requires a good growing season, and that
means more rain in the U.S.”  Soybean futures for March delivery tumbled 2.3 percent to
close at $14.525 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade, the biggest drop for a most-active contract since Nov.
12. The oilseed decline 1.5 percent this week, snapping a four-
week rally.  Corn futures for March delivery fell 0.2 percent to $7.09
bushel in Chicago, after earlier touching $7.0675, the lowest
since Jan. 11. Prices fell for a sixth straight session, the
longest slump since Dec. 13. The grain fell 3.7 percent this
week.  More Rain  Prices accelerated losses at midday on forecasts for rain
in dry regions of Argentina and southern Brazil next week that
will improve the conditions for big crops, said  Richard Feltes ,
the vice president of R.J. O’Brien & Associates in Chicago.
February and March are the key months for South American crops
as soybeans develop pods and fill them with beans and corn fills
kernels with sugars and starch.  Combined soybean production in Brazil and Argentina will
rise 28 percent to a record 136.5 million, with corn output
gaining 5.9 percent to 99.5 million, the USDA said.  Shipping and harvest delays in Brazil may force importers
to buy more from the U.S., and an extension of Argentina’s
drought may limit final yields, Rabobank said today in a report.  In Brazil, excess rain in Mato Grosso, the biggest soy-
growing state, disrupted inland crop deliveries and may extend
the wait time to 50 days for ships to load exports, Hamburg-
based researcher Oil World said Feb. 5.  Today there were 106 ships loading or waiting to load
soybeans, animal feed or cooking oil, up from 85 a week earlier
and another 35 ships waiting to load corn at the five major
Brazilian ports, according to SA Commodities in Santos, Brazil.
A year earlier, 66 were waiting.  “Any logistical issues with exports or further downgrades
to Argentina’s crop will prove bullish for prices as it will
cause higher demand for U.S. soybeans,”  Luke Chandler , global
head of agricultural research at Rabobank, said in a report
today.  Corn is the biggest crop, valued at $76.5 billion in 2011,
followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government figures show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  