-- Spain’s Outlook Kept Negative at Two Levels Above Junk by Fitch
-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 2013-02-09T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/spain-s-outlook-kept-negative-at-two-levels-above-junk-by-fitch.html
Spain kept an investment-grade rating
at Fitch Ratings, which said its debt will peak below 100
percent of gross domestic product and that the government still
has some room for maneuver in the event of further shocks.  The country remains at BBB, two levels above junk, and the
outlook is still negative, the credit-ratings company said in a
statement in London yesterday. It predicted that debt will peak
at 96 percent of GDP in the 2014-15 fiscal year and then decline
“gradually.”  The rating “reflects Fitch’s opinion that the sovereign
maintains some fiscal headroom, albeit significantly reduced,”
Fitch said. “Spain’s rating is lower than that of other large
advanced economies, reflecting the relatively large risks to
creditworthiness posed by its economic and financial adjustment
within the euro zone.”  Fitch’s rating on Spain is one level higher than those of
Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service, which both have
the country graded at one level above junk. Investors often
ignore ratings, evidenced by the rally in Treasuries after the
U.S. lost its top grade at S&P in 2011.  Fitch said the negative outlook on Spain reflects risks
including a failure to shift its public debt ratio down in the
medium term, uncertainty about its economic and fiscal policy, a
worse than expected recession, and the threat of an
intensification of the euro-area debt crisis.  ‘Deep Recession’  Fitch said that Spain’s “deep recession” will continue
this year and it forecast that the  economy  will begin to recover
in 2014 “as headwinds from fiscal austerity and financing
conditions ease.”  “The fiscal deficit will take several more years to be
eliminated in structural terms,” it said. “Growth prospects
are uncertain, all sectors of the economy are relatively
indebted and unemployment is exceptionally high.”  Yields on sovereign securities moved in the opposite
direction from what ratings suggested in 53 percent of 32
upgrades, downgrades and changes in credit outlook last year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg published on Dec. 17.
Investors ignored 56 percent of Moody’s Investors Service rating
and outlook changes and 50 percent of those by S&P. That’s worse
than the longer-term average of 47 percent, based on more than
300 changes since 1974.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in London at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  