-- Super Bowl Blackout Traced to Relay Switch, Entergy Says
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   J u l i e   J o h n s s o n
-- 2013-02-08T22:37:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/super-bowl-power-failure-caused-by-faulty-relay-entergy-says.html
Entergy Corp ., owner of the utility
that supplies power to New Orleans, said an electrical relay
that it installed to regulate power flow at the Superdome caused
the blackout during the Super Bowl.  S&C Electric Co., the equipment’s manufacturer, said the
device cut power to the stadium because the electric load
current exceeded the trip setting that had been selected.  “Based on the on-site testing, we have determined that if
higher settings had been applied, the equipment would not have
disconnected the power,” Michael Edmonds, a vice president with
Chicago-based S&C Electric, said in an e-mail.  The relay was part of the fuses and circuit breakers known
as switchgear that Entergy installed to protect stadium
equipment from damage by a power failure,  Mike Burns , a
spokesman for New Orleans-based Entergy said in telephone
interview.  During the Feb. 3 National Football League championship
game, the device triggered when it shouldn’t have, blacking out
part of the enclosed stadium. The relay has been removed and a
replacement is being evaluated.  “While some further analysis remains, we believe we have
identified and remedied the cause of the power outage and regret
the interruption that occurred during what was a showcase event
for the city and state,”  Charles Rice , chief executive officer
of Entergy New Orleans, said in a statement today.  Cables Installed  About half of the lights at the facility, which held 71,024
fans, went dark early in the third quarter of the game, the
third most-watched U.S. television program. The failure halted
play for 34 minutes.  The NFL declined to comment as it awaits a report from an
independent review of the blackout,  Greg Aiello , a league
spokesman, said today in an e-mail.  Entergy ruled out a cyberattack for the power failure on
Feb. 5, saying there was no Internet or remote computer access
to the device.  Entergy installed new feeder cables, the switchgear and
replaced transformers as it bolstered its network to the
Superdome. The work began in 2011 and was completed Dec. 21,
Burns said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Johnsson in Chicago at 
 jjohnsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  