-- U.K. Property Prices Increased in January, Acadametrics Says
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-08T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/u-k-property-prices-increased-in-january-acadametrics-says.html
U.K. house prices rose in January as
strains in the mortgage market eased and funding costs fell,
Acadametrics Ltd. said.  The average price of a home in England and Wales increased
0.2 percent to 227,478 pounds ($357,300), Acadametrics and LSL
Property Services Plc said in a monthly report published in
London today. From a year earlier, values gained 3.1 percent.  The Bank of England’s Funding for Lending Scheme has shown
“encouraging signs,” though it’s still early days to gauge its
success, Governor-designate  Mark Carney  said yesterday. The BOE
held its target for bond purchases at 375 billion pounds and
said it will reinvest the proceeds from maturing debt holdings
to sustain stimulus in a “slow” recovery.  “Market conditions are certainly improving,” said David
Brown, commercial director of LSL Property Services. “House
prices and sales in 2013 will be closely tied to how well banks
cope with the financial grenades being thrown their way by
regulators and the euro zone.”  Acadametrics estimates that transactions rose 7.5 percent
in January from a year earlier to 47,500. Out of the 10 regions
tracked by the companies, six recorded an increase in annual
prices and four posted declines, according to the report. London
led gains, rising 9.4 percent.  BOE officials are counting on the FLS, which gives banks
access to cheaper funding, to stoke the economy. Mortgage
approvals rose to an 11-month high in December.  Separately, KPMG LLP and the Recruitment and Employment
Confederation said a gauge of permanent job placements held at
53.2 in January. Readings above 50 indicate an increase in
hiring. Permanent vacancies rose to a 21-month high.  Improvements in the mortgage market, along with signs of
employment strength and increased first-time-buyer activity
provide reasons for confidence in the property outlook, said
Acadametrics Chairman  Peter Williams .  “Hopefully this will tempt more sellers back into the
market,” he said. “With new housing remaining in short supply,
prices will be affected by such shortages, except in those areas
where low demand and oversupply remain.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  