-- U.K. to Face 6 Inches of Snow, Travel Disruption in London
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2013-02-08T17:57:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/u-k-faces-6-inches-of-snow-travel-disruption-forecasters-say.html
Rain may turn to snow over the
weekend in the U.K. as temperatures drop below freezing,
creating disruption to travelers throughout the country.  As much as 15 centimeters (6 inches) of snow will fall in
southern England and Wales on Feb. 10 and 11, The Weather
Channel said today on its website. The low in London will rise
to 3.1 degrees Celsius (38 Fahrenheit) on Feb. 11 from minus 2
Celsius today, CustomWeather Inc. data on Bloomberg show.  “There is a risk that a band of rain spreading from the
southwest during Sunday will turn to sleet and snow,” the
U.K.’s  Met Office  said today on its website. “The public should
be aware of possible disruption to travel.”  A severe weather warning is in place for most of the U.K.
on Feb. 10 and England and Wales on Feb. 11, according to the
Met Office, which predicts a maximum 10 centimeters of snow.  The weather is being caused by low pressure and “more
active fronts” pushing in from the West, with a cold
southeasterly “undercut” turning rain to sleet and wet snow on
Sunday morning, according to the  Weather Channel .  European airports from London’s Heathrow to Frankfurt
canceled hundreds of flights over the weekend of Jan. 19-20 as
snow and freezing rain swept across the continent.  Heathrow, the busiest aviation hub in Europe, canceled at
least 10 percent of flights on Jan. 21 after grounding 260 a day
earlier. Frankfurt Airport, owned by Fraport AG, scrapped 203
flights and its counterpart in Munich canceled more than 100.  “Even at this short timescale there is currently a lot of
uncertainty about the extent of the rain, sleet and snow later
this weekend,” Met Office Chief Forecaster Eddy Carroll said on
the agency’s website.  There have been 35 cancellations at Heathrow today, mainly
outbound to the U.S., according to Jan Singleton, a spokeswoman
for the airport.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  