-- U.S. Post Office Loses $1.3 Billion in First Quarter
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-02-08T20:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/u-s-post-office-loses-1-3-billion-in-first-quarter.html
The U.S. Postal Service today said it
lost $1.3 billion in the quarter ended Dec. 31 despite cutting
costs 9.8 percent, as Postmaster General  Patrick Donahoe  called
on Congress to authorize changes in its business model to halt
unsustainable losses.  Cost savings and a 4.7 percent increase in shipping and
package revenue offset a 3.1 percent drop in first-class mail
revenue from the same period last year, when the post office
lost $3.3 billion. Total revenue held steady at about $17.7
billion during the first quarter, the post office’s strongest
period because of holiday mailings.  The Postal Service released financial results two days
after Donahoe said he would end Saturday mail delivery without
Congress’s approval if necessary, pressing lawmakers to act on
legislation to restore the post office’s financial viability.  “I’d like to say we can solve these problems on our own,”
Donahoe said today at a postal board meeting in Washington.
“The scale of our challenge requires major legislative reform
to our business model. We do not want to be a burden on the
American taxpayers.”  Donahoe said Feb. 6 that ending Saturday delivery of all
mail except packages in August would save $2 billion a year. The
post office wants to cut $20 billion of annual costs and says it
can’t do it without congressional action.  U.S. House and Senate leaders said legislation to fix
postal finances is a top priority this year, even as Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  yesterday joined other Democrats in
questioning the legality of a unilateral halt of Saturday mail.  Health Default  Donahoe, on a conference call today with reporters, asked
Congress not to stand in the way of cutting Saturday delivery.  “We feel that our interpretation of the way the law is
written gives us the ability to move ahead,” he said.  Without legislation, the service projects having two and a
half days of operating cash left at the end of its fiscal year
Sept. 30, even assuming it defaults on a $5.6 billion payment
due to the U.S. Treasury for future retiree health-care costs,
Chief Financial Officer  Joseph Corbett  told reporters today.  He compared the Postal Service’s liquidity with finances at
 FedEx Corp.  and  United Parcel Service Inc. , saying the companies
have access to $10 billion of capital at any given time. The
Postal Service exhausted its $15 billion borrowing limit last
September.  Cash Shortage  A cash squeeze would leave the service no cushion to react
to an economic downturn or other unexpected events, Corbett
said. At the end of the first quarter on Dec. 31, the service
had 10 days of cash on hand, one fewer day than it had a year
earlier, he said.  “We can’t continue to operate on a precipice,” he told
the board. “Our customers deserve better.”  With $140 billion in annual cash flow, a 1 percent
deviation from the forecast would mean a change of $1.4 billion,
which could take the service to zero cash, Corbett said.  “A billion to a layman sounds like a lot of money, but to
the Postal Service, it’s just a few days of cash
disbursements,” Corbett said.  The service remains at its borrowing limit despite
increases in advertising and package mail and a boost from
election-related mail during the first quarter, he said.  Horse, Buggy  The Postal Service lost a record $15.9 billion in fiscal
2012, which ended Sept. 30, as individuals and businesses
continued their shift toward e-mail and e-billing.  “They cannot cut costs in a way that will make them
sustainable,” said  Richard Geddes , a Cornell University
associate professor who studies the Postal Service and advocates
changing its business model. “It’s like if you reduce the costs
of horses and buggies in the automobile era.”  The Postal Service has asked Congress to defer or
restructure the payment for future retirees’ health-care costs.
Donahoe has also proposed taking the approximately 521,000
postal workers and the service’s retirees out of the U.S.
government employee health-benefits system.  The service last year projected it would save $7.1 billion
a year by managing its own benefits. It plans to release an
analysis next week of how much it would save in the first year,
said Mark Saunders, a Postal Service spokesman.  “We know it’s the right thing to do for this organization,
but we can’t do that on our own,” Donahoe said on today’s
conference call, saying a post-office health plan would be the
country’s largest. “We need legislation.”  Congressional Action  Senator  Tom Carper , a Delaware Democrat who is chairman of
the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee,
plans to hold the first postal hearing of the new Congress next
week.  “Piecemeal efforts like those announced in recent days and
months will not be enough to solve the Postal Service’s
financial challenges for the long haul,” Carper said in an e-
mailed statement today. “I hope my colleagues and the
administration share my sense of urgency to solve this
situation.”  The Democrat-controlled Senate last year passed a measure
giving the service much of the relief it sought, while requiring
it to study the impact of ending Saturday delivery for two
years. The Republican-controlled House didn’t bring up the
Senate measure or vote on an alternative proposal criticized by
Donahoe that would have set up an independent commission to
close post offices while imposing a control board to oversee
postal finances.  ‘Flawed Guidance’  With his plan to end Saturday mail delivery, Donahoe now is
drawing support from Republicans and criticism from Democrats.  The top Republicans on the House and Senate committees with
postal oversight, Representative  Darrell Issa  of California and
Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma, praised Donahoe’s move.  Frank Lautenberg , a New Jersey Democrat who heads the Senate
appropriations subcommittee with jurisdiction over the agency,
said it “circumvents the will of Congress.”  The service previously said it needed a change in law to
cut a day of delivery because language first added to
appropriations bills in 1981 dictates six days of delivery.
Donahoe on Feb. 6 said the service, which gets less than 0.1
percent of its revenue from taxpayers, would rely on a new legal
interpretation that it could take that step under a temporary
funding resolution that expires next month.  “The postmaster general relied on flawed legal guidance to
claim that he can circumvent Congress’ authority on the
matter,” Reid, a Nevada Democrat, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday.  Goading Congress  David Partenheimer , a Postal Service spokesman, said the
service responded to the biggest criticism of five-day delivery
by preserving Saturday package service.  “Given our worsening financial situation, the strong
public support for this change, and the plan to maintain six-day
package delivery, it is anticipated that most members of
Congress will understand the urgent need to implement this
change,” he said in an e-mail.  Reid and House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican,
have both called postal service legislation a top priority for
this year.  While Donahoe said ending six-day mail delivery isn’t a
ploy to goad Congress to act, Farrokh Hormozi, chairman of the
public administration department at New York’s Pace University,
said it may have that effect. Millions of Americans depend on
receiving physical mail, he said.  “The fact of the matter is that the Postal Service is what
economists call the public good,” he said in an interview. “It
doesn’t matter whether I get my Visa bill today or tomorrow. But
for those people who depend on government subsidies or welfare
checks or Social Security and they live from one paycheck to
another, this is a significant issue we’re talking about.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  