-- UBS Alums’ LionTree Ascends League Table as Media Deals Multiply
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2013-02-08T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ubs-alums-liontree-ascends-league-table-as-media-deals-multiply.html
LionTree Advisors LLC , a boutique
firm started seven months ago by analyst-turned-banker  Aryeh Bourkoff , 40, and  Ehren Stenzler , 37, is riding a wave of media
deals to land among the top financial advisers so far this year.  Started in July by the two former UBS AG investment
bankers, New York-based LionTree advised Liberty Global Inc. in
its $16 billion acquisition of U.K. cable operator Virgin Media
Inc., announced Feb. 6. Also this week, it advised Warner Music
Group in its purchase of EMI Group’s Parlophone Label Group from
Universal Music Group for $764 million.  With the two deals, LionTree jumped to fourth place on the
global league table of financial advisers for media mergers and
acquisitions, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The rapid
climb shows how LionTree is benefiting from the enthusiasm for
media dealmaking, and underscores how a few big deals can propel
small firms to the top of the ranks, at least temporarily.  “M&A activity has picked up recently, in particular in the
technology, media, telecom space,” Stenzler said in an
interview. “With the current strength of the financing markets
and better visibility into the economic recovery, there exists
an increased appetite to pursue strategic acquisitions.”  Stenzler, who sees the trend continuing, declined to
discuss LionTree’s strategy.  Since the beginning of the year, 180 media deals were
announced worth almost $40 billion, more than seven times the
$5.60 billion volume of media deals announced in the same period
last year, the data compiled by Bloomberg show.  In the league table for media advisors,  Credit Suisse Group
AG , which also advised Liberty Global and Warner Music, ranks at
the top, followed by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
& Co.  Evercore, Greenhill  LionTree, which at the end of 2012 ranked 70th in the
league table of all global M&A financial advisers, is now
eighth, according to the data compiled by Bloomberg. Among the
more established boutique firms, Lazard Ltd. ranked 11th in
2012, Evercore Partners Inc. was 15th and Greenhill & Co. was
18th.  The cyclical nature of dealmaking, which last year was
subdued globally across all industries, as well as competition
from bigger firms, may challenge LionTree’s ambition to grow.  While boutique firms have lower costs and a perceived
advantage in being independent, they may have fewer areas of
expertise.  “They rely more heavily on one or two product areas, which
can limit their growth when those areas are less active,” said
 Mort Pierce , partner in the M&A group of law firm White & Case
LLP in New York.  11 Employees  LionTree, whose office on Manhattan’s Madison Avenue counts
11 employees, focuses its advisory on media, telecommunications
and Internet companies -- the industries Bourkoff and Stenzler
specialized in at UBS.  Bourkoff, LionTree’s chief executive officer, started at
UBS in 1999 in the fixed-income clearing group, becoming an
equity media analyst the next year. In 2007 he switched to UBS’s
investment banking side, an unusual career move for Wall Street,
becoming global co-head of advisory for technology, media and
telecom.  In March 2011 Bourkoff was promoted to the head of UBS
investment banking for the Americas, staying for only 13 months
until he left to start his own firm.  Stenzler, LionTree’s co-founder and managing partner, was
UBS’s co-head of Americas M&A practice from June 2011 to April
2012, after leading the telecom, media, technology M&A team.  Biggest Deals  The two bankers were involved in some of the media
industry’s biggest deals. In 2011, while at UBS, they advised
Comcast Corp. on its  acquisition  of NBC Universal for $13.8
billion and Sony Corp. in its $2.2 billion purchase of EMI’s
publishing business. Also that year, they handled  Len Blavatnik ’s Access Industries Holdings in its $3.3 billion
takeover of Warner Music Group. They also advised Charter
Communications Inc. on its restructuring after bankruptcy.  Bourkoff and Stenzler climbed the ladder at UBS’s
investment bank as the largest Swiss bank struggled with
defections in the U.S. when it cut its bonus pool by 80 percent
following the 2008 credit crisis.  “Investment banks of every size have their certain
benefits and challenges,” said Pierce.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Serena Saitto  in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in New York at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  