-- Ukio Slumps as Majority Owner Exits Zalgiris: Vilnius Mover
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-02-08T15:20:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/ukio-slumps-as-majority-owner-exits-zalgiris-vilnius-mover.html
AB Ukio Bankas , the Lithuanian bank
that’s lost more than half its value in a year, fell the most in
13 years after majority owner  Vladimir Romanov  said he was
ceding ownership of the debt-laden Zalgiris basketball club.  The shares plunged as much as 21 percent, posting the
steepest intraday drop since February 2000. They closed down 17
percent at 0.081 euro in Vilnius, valuing the bank at 29.4
million euros ($39 million). Volume of 2.5 million shares was
the most in a year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Romanov, who owns 64.9 percent of Kaunas-based Ukio Bankas,
will relinquish ownership of Kaunas Zalgiris basketball club
because the city council refused to provide enough financial
support for the team, Verslo Zinios newspaper reported on its
website today. Romanov also controls Edinburgh soccer club  Heart
of Midlothian Plc  through Ukio Banko Investicine Grupe, a sister
company of the lender.  “Investors don’t like all the media reports about the
bank’s main shareholder,” Tadas Povilauskas, an analyst at
Finasta investment bank in Vilnius, said by phone. “If he can
no longer afford to support his sports club, he probably also
wouldn’t be able to support the bank if needed.”  The falling share price, which dropped 25 percent this
week, has also triggered bank calls for additional collateral
from some investors, who’ve “had to either pay in or close
their positions,” according to Povilauskas.  Ukio Bankas in October reported a group net loss of 44
million litai ($17 million) for the first nine months of 2012.
Since then, it has had to assuage investor concerns about the
quality of its loans, the valuation of real-estate it owns and
probes of Russian money that was laundered through its accounts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  