-- Tunisians Mourn Opposition Leader as Police, Youths Clash
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-08T15:07:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/tunisians-mourn-opposition-leader-as-police-youths-clash.html
Thousands of Tunisians mourned slain
opposition leader Chukri Beleid as police fired tear gas in
clashes with groups of young men during his funeral, heightening
tensions as the country faces its most serious crisis since the
2011 uprising that began the Arab Spring.  At least four cars were torched in the unrest outside the
Jalaz cemetery in the capital, Tunis, sending plumes of black
smoke billowing above the skyline. Clouds of tear gas forced
mourners to cover their faces as they waited for the cortege.  The youths had been trying to steal cars and threw stones
after being confronted by police. Two military helicopters
hovered as mourners waved Tunisian flags and chanted “down with
the regime.” They carried photos of Beleid, a 48-year-old
human-rights lawyer who had criticized the ruling moderate
Islamist Ennahda party and radical religious groups.  Police also fired tear gas at looters on the capital’s main
Avenue  Habib Bourguiba . The General Union of Tunisian Workers
called on its members to strike to mark the funeral. Protests by
lawyers, judges and some teachers began yesterday. All flights
to and from Tunisia were canceled for the day, Al-Arabiya
television reported, citing airport authorities.  Accusations by Beleid’s widow and other opposition figures
that the ruling Islamist Ennahda colluded with extremists in the
assassination, and violent anti-government protests that
followed, sparked the most unrest since the ouster of President
 Zine El Abidine Ben Ali .  Government’s Demise?  Four secular opposition parties withdrew from the
government after the Feb. 6 murder. Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli 
of Ennahda vowed to form a cabinet of technocrats, a plan
rejected by his own party, which said he was acting
unilaterally.  The proposal, in exposing divisions within Ennahda, will
probably “accelerate the current crisis and eventually lead to
the fall of the government,” New York-based Eurasia Group, a
political risk-analysis group, said late yesterday in an e-
mailed note. The political uncertainty and instability may last
for weeks before the parties within the majority coalition work
out an acceptable compromise, it said.  Two days of clashes between security forces and
demonstrators that followed the killing left one policeman dead.  Police closed down central Tunis yesterday and fired tear
gas at protesters. Shops were shut on Avenue Habib Bourguiba,
where crowds outside the Interior Ministry shouted “down with
the Brotherhood Party, executioner of the people” and “martyr
rest in peace, we will continue to struggle.”  IMF Talks  The assassination sent Tunisia’s benchmark stock index
tumbling 3.7 percent on Feb. 6, the biggest drop since Jan. 13,
2011, the eve of Ben Ali’s departure. The killing also
reverberated in Egypt, where secularists have expressed alarm
over the power of Islamists under President  Mohamed Mursi . The
Tunis  index  rose 0.7 percent as of 2:30 p.m. in Tunis.  Tunisia in talks for a $1.78 billion International Monetary
Fund stand-by loan to help buttress an economy that grew 2.7
percent in 2012 and may expand 3.3 percent this year, according
to IMF estimates.  Beleid’s widow, Besma Khalfaoui, said yesterday that she
held Ennahda, “with its fascist and democratic branches,”
responsible for his death, a charge the party denied. She said
her husband had asked police for protection.  Jbeli and the secular president,  Moncef Marzouki , condemned
the assassination, urging Tunisians not to be dragged into
violence.  Salafi Cleric  Tunisia’s road to democracy has been paved with rifts and
accusations that the influence of a small yet vocal and at times
violent movement of ultraconservative Muslims known as Salafis
may undercut a secular tradition.  Beleid’s murder came after a Salafi cleric said in a video
posted on the Internet that his head, and that of  Ahmed Najib Chebbi , another top opposition party figure, were “wanted.”  His death followed a Feb. 3 arson attack on the secular
Nidaa Tounes opposition party headquarters in Kebili province,
and clashes between opposition groups and government supporters
in the cities of El Kef and Kairouan.  Hussein Abbasi, secretary-general of the Tunisian labor
union organizing today’s strike, received a death threat
yesterday on his mobile phone, union spokesman Sami Tahiri said.  In Washington,  Victoria Nuland , a U.S. State Department
spokeswoman, said demonstrators and the Tunisian government
should exercise restraint and called for a full investigation of
Beleid’s death.  The assassination drew quick rebuke from secularists in
Egypt, where  Hosni Mubarak ’s 2011 ouster unleashed unrest and
sent the economy into a tailspin. They say Mursi has put the
interests of the Muslim Brotherhood organization that fielded
him for office ahead of the nation’s.  Egypt’s Cabinet said yesterday it may take legal steps
against anyone who issues fatwas inciting violence. The
statement came a day after Nobel Laureate  Mohamed ElBaradei , an
opposition leader, criticized the government for its silence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Tunis at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  