-- Tunisia Police Fire Tear Gas at Opposition Leader Funeral
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-08T13:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/tunisians-gather-for-funeral-of-opposition-leader.html
Tunisian police fired tear gas at
youths near a cemetery where thousands of people attended the
funeral of slain opposition leader Chukri Beleid as the country
faces its most serious crisis since the 2011 uprising that began
the Arab Spring.  Police intervened after a group of young men tried to steal
cars. Two military helicopters hovered over Jalaz cemetery in
the capital, Tunis, as mourners waved Tunisian flags and chanted
“down with the regime.” They carried photos of Beleid, a 48-
year-old human-rights lawyer who had criticized the ruling
moderate Islamist Ennahda party and radical religious groups.  Police also fired tear gas at looters on the capital’s main
Avenue Habib Bourguiba. The General Union of Tunisian Workers
called on its members to strike to mark the funeral. Protests by
lawyers, judges and some teachers began yesterday. All flights
to and from Tunisia were canceled for the day, Al-Arabiya
television reported, citing airport authorities.  Accusations by Beleid’s widow and other opposition figures
that the ruling Islamist Ennahda colluded with extremists in the
assassination, and violent anti-government protests that
followed, sparked the most unrest since the ouster of President
 Zine El Abidine Ben Ali .  Four secular opposition parties withdrew from the
government after the Feb. 6 murder. Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli 
of Ennahda vowed to form a cabinet of technocrats, a plan
rejected by his own party, which said he was acting
unilaterally.  Political Uncertainty  The proposal, in exposing divisions within Ennahda, will
probably “accelerate the current crisis and eventually lead to
the fall of the government,” New York-based Eurasia Group, a
political risk-analysis group, said late yesterday in an e-
mailed note. The political uncertainty and instability may last
for weeks before the parties within the majority coalition work
out an acceptable compromise, it said.  Two days of clashes between security forces and protesters
that followed the killing left one policeman dead.  Police closed down central Tunis yesterday and fired tear
gas at protesters. Shops were shut on Avenue Habib Bourguiba,
where crowds outside the Interior Ministry shouted “down with
the Brotherhood Party, executioner of the people” and “martyr
rest in peace, we will continue to struggle.”  IMF Talks  The assassination sent Tunisia’s benchmark stock index
tumbling 3.7 percent on Feb. 6, the biggest drop since Jan. 13,
2011, the eve of Ben Ali’s departure. The killing also
reverberated in Egypt, where secularists have expressed alarm
over the power of Islamists under President  Mohamed Mursi . The
Tunis  index  rose 0.7 percent as of 2:17 p.m. in Tunis.  Tunisia in talks for a $1.78 billion International Monetary
Fund stand-by loan to help buttress an economy that grew 2.7
percent last year and may expand 3.3 percent this year,
according to IMF estimates.  Beleid’s widow, Besma Khalfaoui, said yesterday that she
held Ennahda, “with its fascist and democratic branches”
responsible for his death, a charge the party denied. She said
her husband had asked police for protection.  Jbeli and the secular president,  Moncef Marzouki , condemned
the assassination, urging Tunisians not to be dragged into
violence.  Tunisia’s road to democracy has been paved with rifts and
accusations that the influence of a small yet vocal and at times
violent movement of ultraconservative Muslims known as Salafis
may undercut a secular tradition.  Salafi Cleric  Beleid’s murder came after a Salafi cleric said in a video
posted on the Internet that his head, and that of  Ahmed Najib Chebbi , another top opposition party figure, were “wanted.”  His death followed a Feb. 3 arson attack on the secular
Nidaa Tounes opposition party headquarters in Kebili province,
and clashes between opposition groups and government supporters
in the cities of El Kef and Kairouan.  Hussein Abbasi, secretary-general of the Tunisian labor
union organizing today’s strike, received a death threat
yesterday on his mobile phone, union spokesman Sami Tahiri said.  In Washington,  Victoria Nuland , a U.S. State Department
spokeswoman, said demonstrators and the Tunisian government
should exercise restraint and called for a full investigation of
Beleid’s death.  In Egypt, where  Hosni Mubarak ’s 2011 ouster unleashed
unrest and sent the economy into a tailspin, the killing of
Beleid drew a quick rebuke from secularists who say Mursi has
put the interests of the Muslim Brotherhood organization that
fielded him for office ahead of the nation’s.  Egypt’s Cabinet said yesterday it’s considering taking
legal measures against anyone who issues fatwas inciting
violence. The statement came a day after Nobel Laureate Mohamed
ElBaradei, an opposition leader, criticized the government for
its silence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  