-- Tunisians Bury Opposition Leader as Protests Continue
-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i
-- 2013-02-08T22:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/tunisians-bury-opposition-leader-as-protests-continue.html
Tunisian opposition leader Chukri
Beleid was buried yesterday as thousands of people joined anti-
government protests in the country’s most serious crisis since
the 2011 uprising that began the Arab Spring.  Police fired tear gas in clashes with groups of young men
trying to steal cars outside the Jalaz cemetery in the capital,
Tunis, where Beleid was buried. Two military helicopters hovered
as mourners carried photos of the 48-year-old lawyer and waved
Tunisian flags while chanting “down with the regime.”  Looters also were the target of police firing tear gas
yesterday on the capital’s main Avenue  Habib Bourguiba , where
mourners gathered to mark the killing of Beleid, a critic of the
ruling moderate Islamist Ennahda party and radical religious
groups.  The Tunisian Interior Ministry said in a statement on its
official website that 230 people were arrested for theft,
aggression and attacks on public property.  The General Union of Tunisian Workers said that about 90
percent of its members responded to a call for a strike to mark
the funeral. Protests by lawyers, judges and some teachers began
Feb. 7. All flights to and from Tunisia were canceled for the
day, Al-Arabiya television reported, citing airport authorities.  Accusations by Beleid’s widow and other opposition figures
that the ruling Islamist Ennahda colluded with extremists in the
assassination, and violent anti-government protests that
followed, sparked the most unrest since the ouster of President
 Zine El Abidine Ben Ali .  Technocrats’ Cabinet  Four secular opposition parties withdrew from the
government after the Feb. 6 murder. Prime Minister  Hamadi Jbeli 
of Ennahda vowed to form a cabinet of technocrats, a plan
rejected by his own party, which said he was acting
unilaterally. Yesterday, he said he stood by his decision.  The proposal, in exposing divisions within Ennahda, will
probably “accelerate the current crisis and eventually lead to
the fall of the government,” New York-based Eurasia Group, a
political risk-analysis group, said Feb. 7 in an e-mailed note.
The political uncertainty and instability may last for weeks
before the parties within the majority coalition work out an
acceptable compromise, it said.  Two days of clashes between security forces and
demonstrators that followed the killing left one policeman dead.  IMF Talks  The assassination sent Tunisia’s benchmark stock index
tumbling 3.7 percent on Feb. 6, the biggest drop since Jan. 13,
2011, the eve of Ben Ali’s departure. The killing also
reverberated in Egypt, where secularists have expressed alarm
over the power of Islamists under President  Mohamed Mursi . The
Tunis  index  rose 0.7 percent yesterday.  Tunisia is in talks for a $1.78 billion International
Monetary Fund standby loan to help buttress an economy that grew
2.7 percent last year and may expand 3.3 percent this year,
according to IMF estimates.  Beleid’s widow, Besma Khalfaoui, said Feb. 7 that she held
Ennahda, “with its fascist and democratic branches,”
responsible for his death, a charge the party denied. She said
her husband had asked police for protection.  Jbeli and the secular president,  Moncef Marzouki , condemned
the assassination, urging Tunisians not to be dragged into
violence.  Tunisia’s road to democracy has been paved with rifts and
accusations that a secular tradition may be undercut by the
influence of a small yet vocal and at times violent movement of
ultraconservative Muslims known as Salafis.  Beleid’s murder came after a Salafi cleric said in a video
posted on the Internet that his head, and that of  Ahmed Najib Chebbi , another top opposition party figure, were “wanted.”  His death followed a Feb. 3 arson attack on the secular
Nidaa Tounes opposition party headquarters in Kebili province,
and clashes between opposition groups and government supporters
in the cities of El Kef and Kairouan.  Hussein Abbasi, secretary-general of the Tunisian labor
union organizing yesterday’s strike, received a death threat
Feb. 7 on his mobile phone, union spokesman Sami Tahiri said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  