-- Huntsman Says Rove Primary Plan Yesterday’s Game (Transcript)
-- B y
-- 2013-02-08T21:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/huntsman-says-rove-primary-plan-yesterday-s-game-transcript-.html
Former Republican presidential
candidate  Jon Huntsman , speaking in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital with  Al Hunt ,” airing this
weekend, described an effort spearheaded by strategist  Karl Rove 
to intervene in Republican primaries as “yesterday’s ballgame”
and called on his party to focus on big ideas rather than
political tactics. Huntsman, a former U.S. ambassador to China,
also said he worries about the danger that a military
“incident” between China and Japan may escalate into an
unintended conflict.  (This is not a legal transcript. Bloomberg LP cannot
guarantee its accuracy.)  AL HUNT: We begin the show with former Republican
presidential candidate and former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman.  Governor, thank you for being with us.  FORMER GOVERNOR JON HUNTSMAN: Al, great to be with you.  HUNT: You are co-chair of No Labels, advocating a
bipartisan approach to issues, controversies.  HUNTSMAN: Right.  HUNT: We need some specifics, though. You say, for
instance, that on guns, a middle ground is a no-brainer. Should
that no-brainer include a ban on assault weapons? Should it
include background checks with no loopholes? Should it include a
ban on magazine clips with more than 10 bullets?  HUNTSMAN: The thing about No Labels, Al, is not taking
positions on issues. It’s about changing the culture of
Washington to a focus on problem-solving. So it doesn’t matter
whether it’s guns or immigration or energy or tax reform, we’ve
lost the ability to make a deal in this town. We’ve lost the
ability to actually problem-solve.  So our goal, simply put, is to take Republicans and
Democrats, of whom there are 30 today -- our goal by the end of
the year is to get 80 -- in a problem-solvers bloc who agree
when they walk in a room to meet once a month, check their ego
at the door, govern for the next generation and not the next
election cycle -  HUNT: Three weeks, sequester comes up, $1.2 trillion of
cuts. Most people think it’s a meat ax, terrible approach. What
should be done instead?  HUNTSMAN: Well, why are we here? The sequester is in effect
or it might be March 1 because we failed 2011, basically, around
the debt -- the debt-ceiling debate. So why did we fail? We
failed because we didn’t have a focus on problem-solving. You
get a few Republicans and Democrats who are part of that
commission to get in a room together and to figure out where to
cut, where to raise, a little bit -  HUNT: So what should we do in the next three weeks?  HUNTSMAN: Well, we need a balanced approach. We’ve already
-  HUNT: Revenues?  HUNTSMAN: Revenues got to be on the table. You’ve got to
cut. We haven’t had a discussion about the -  HUNT: So there will have to be revenues, entitlements, and
discretionary?  HUNTSMAN: You got to get right to entitlements. The
sequester doesn’t get to entitlements. It takes, you know, $109
billion bucks this year over -- you know, and over the next 10
years, similar amounts, half, virtually, out of the military,
the other half out of discretionary spending. You want to blow a
hole in basic research and education support and other very
important non-discretionary matters? This is how you do it,
which hurts the economy.  HUNT: But also doesn’t get to revenues. You’re saying it’s
got to get to entitlements and revenues?  HUNTSMAN: You’ve got to have revenues on the table. You’ve
got to have -- you’ve got to have -- you’ve got to have
loopholes on the table. You’ve got to clear the tax code of
loopholes.  HUNT: Revenue raising.  HUNTSMAN: That -- loopholes have got to be on the table.
Some see it as revenue-raising. I see it as cleaning the tax
code of all of the encumbrances that keep us from growing.  HUNT: The Republican Party. There’s been a universal call
for change. What does that mean? Does that mean messaging and --
and image? Or does that mean policy, substantive alterations?  HUNTSMAN: We need to look back at who we are as a party.
You know, we’re the party of Lincoln. We’re the party of
Roosevelt. We’re the party of Eisenhower, the party of Reagan,
so we’ve got a whole vast literature of things we’ve done to
shape this country into what it is today.  HUNT: And what policy changes would you like to see, in
what areas?  HUNTSMAN: I think we need to focus more on reform. So the
growth agenda’s great, and all Republicans talk about growth.
You got to have a tax policy that works. You’ve got to grow the
economy, expand the base, create jobs. The economy’s going to
rebound. It would have been a lot faster a rebound if we had
pro-growth policies, want to have those. But the next big thing
for Republicans, Al, is going to be how you make the system
work, which is reforming government. And if we’re not smart
enough to take on banks that are too big to fail, things like
term limits and even campaign finance reform -- I know that’s
controversial -- but you got to make the system work at the end
of this.  HUNT: You’re for term limits?  HUNTSMAN: I’m for term limits.  HUNT: Which basically turns more power over to unelected
bureaucrats.  HUNTSMAN: Some argue -- some argue that. I say that
incumbency leads to crony capitalism. And when you get the same
people elected time after time -- we ought to be the party that
takes after redistricting, that takes after, you know, the idea
that we have -  HUNT: Would you have a commission for redistricting?  HUNTSMAN: I’d have independent redistricting commissions.  HUNT: Yeah, like California did?  HUNTSMAN: Seventy percent of the seats in this country are
locked in, red and blue. We’ve got to back -- I tried to get
that done as governor. I ran on term limits as governor. It
wasn’t to be with my legislature, but I think there’s a mood
change in this country that says, all right, you’ve blown up the
system, now you’ve got to make it work.  HUNT: Karl Rove has established a Conservative Victory
Project to try, he says, to elect better primary candidates and
drive out the ones that he says are unelectable. Is this a good
idea?  HUNTSMAN: Well, I think it’s -- you know, I -- Rove can do
whatever he wants. I think he’s kind of yesterday’s ballgame.
But I think Republicans need to focus, first and foremost, on
big ideas. Ideas are going to drive people. People are then
going to elect the leaders of tomorrow.  HUNT: So that’s not -- so, therefore, the Rove thing is
yesterday tactics as opposed to ideas?  HUNTSMAN: That’s politics, you know? Politics isn’t going
to win the elections for us. It’s not -- it’s not about people.
It’s about ideas. And the ideas are going to drive people to
victory. We don’t have any ideas now that are big enough and
bold enough and visionary enough for most Americans to say, “I
like that, I want to sign on, and I want that person to lead me
to the future.”  HUNT: Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , one of the stars of
the Republican Party, said we have to stop being the stupid
party. A couple of years ago, he embraced a birther bill. Is
that stupid?  HUNTSMAN: Well, it’s a message bill. You know, messaging is
-- is not a good thing to do in politics at a time when we need
big ideas. Messaging and pandering and pledge-signing are all
things that take our eye off the ball. We ought to be focused on
a strategy for this country that speaks to life, liberty,
pursuit of happiness, growing the economic base, and giving
people opportunity. If we’re not focused on that, we’re wasting
time.  HUNT: Let me -- let me take advantage, too, of your China
expertise as a former ambassador. Do you see the dangers of the
Japanese-Chinese dispute over the islands in East China Sea
fueling nationalist sentiments in both places, one we have a
treaty with, the other we’re economically dependent upon? Do you
worry that that could spin out of control?  HUNTSMAN: The tensions are -- are real, and they’ve been
there for a long time. You’re talking about sovereignty issues
that have been around at least since 1895, some since the end of
World War II.  What I worry about is the crowded airspace around --the
Diaoyu or the Senkaku Islands. You get more surveillance flights
by China, by Japan, by Korea, even by Russia, most recently,
with the Kuril Islands up north. You get more sorties. You get
more planes that are then scrambled to go after those
reconnaissance. That means that skies are more crowded with
maneuvers. That then leads to the prospects of maybe an unwanted
incident.  So I don’t worry about the rhetoric, because I’ve heard the
rhetoric for years, and it’s very real, particularly during
political season. So you’ve had a transition in China. We’ve had
elections in Japan with  Shinzo Abe  coming to the forefront.
We’ve had elections in South Korea. So -  HUNT: But you worry about some incident in the air?  HUNTSMAN: I worry about the military maneuvers in crowded
airspaces and sea lanes, where an incident can escalate
something beyond anyone’s ability to then de-escalate it.  HUNT: On another China question, recently, they blasted the
North Koreans and warned against any more nuclear tests. Is this
just rhetoric? Or is this some kind of real sea change in their
policy toward North Korea?  HUNTSMAN: The Chinese are very concerned about North Korea.
They have been for some time. They’re a country that is rogue,
that is untrustworthy. They blow up bombs, as they did twice in
recent years, and they’re threatening to do it again. That for
China is the worst nightmare come true.  HUNT: And you expect to see China continue to be more
aggressive in trying to rein in -  HUNTSMAN: They’re going to be very aggressive against North
Korea because the implications are very real economically for
the Chinese. So you look at the whole of Northeast Asia, which
is soon to be 20 percent of the world’s GDP -- Japan, South
Korea, North Korea, Taiwan, the northern part of China -- it’s a
bustling part of the world, the sea lanes, East China Sea that
carries two-thirds of our trade. And you get one country that
engages in saber-rattling, the whole region becomes on edge, and
it gums up trade and commerce, and everyone -- everyone feels
the pain of that, China particularly.  HUNT: Jon Huntsman, thank you so much for being with us.  HUNTSMAN: Great to be with you.  ***END OF TRANSCRIPT***  THIS TRANSCRIPT MAY NOT BE 100% ACCURATE AND MAY CONTAIN
MISSPELLINGS AND OTHER INACCURACIES. THIS TRANSCRIPT IS PROVIDED
“AS IS,” WITHOUT EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND.
BLOOMBERG RETAINS ALL RIGHTS TO THIS TRANSCRIPT AND PROVIDES IT
SOLELY FOR YOUR PERSONAL, NON-COMMERCIAL USE. BLOOMBERG, ITS
SUPPLIERS AND THIRD-PARTY AGENTS SHALL HAVE NO LIABILITY FOR
ERRORS IN THIS TRANSCRIPT OR FOR LOST PROFITS, LOSSES OR DIRECT,
INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES
IN CONNECTION WITH THE FURNISHING, PERFORMANCE, OR USE OF SUCH
TRANSCRIPT. NEITHER THE INFORMATION NOR ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN
THIS TRANSCRIPT CONSTITUTES A SOLICITATION OF THE PURCHASE OR
SALE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES. ANY OPINION EXPRESSED IN THE
TRANSCRIPT DOES NOT NECESSARILY REFLECT THE VIEWS OF BLOOMBERG
LP. 