-- Huntsman Cites Risk of China-Japan Clashes Over Territory
-- B y   T e r r y   A t l a s
-- 2013-02-09T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/huntsman-warns-of-risk-of-china-japan-clashes-in-disputed-areas.html
Jon Huntsman , a former U.S.
ambassador to China, said he worries that a territorial dispute
between China and Japan may escalate into an unintended
confrontation.  “The tensions are real,” he said, citing the two nations’
maneuvering over islands in the East China Sea. Risks also are
being raised by expanding activities such as surveillance
flights in the region by other nations, including South Korea
and Russia, he said.  “I worry about the military maneuvers in crowded airspaces
and sea lanes” where an incident can escalate into something
“beyond anyone’s ability to then de-escalate it,” Huntsman
said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Political
Capital with Al Hunt” airing this weekend.  Huntsman, who was President  Barack Obama ’s ambassador to
China and was a candidate in the Republican presidential
primaries last year, also said he sees China trying to use its
influence to rein in North Korea’s “saber rattling” and to
persuade it not to proceed with a third underground nuclear test
explosion.  U.S. officials have expressed growing concern about
tensions in the Asia-Pacific region, particularly over
territorial disputes that relate in part to access to resources
such as undersea oil reserves.  Japan said Feb. 7 that Russian fighter jets intruded on its
airspace, which Russia’s Defense Ministry denied.  Russian Fighters  Two Russian Su-27s flew over Japan’s northern island of
Hokkaido yesterday for more than a minute, Japan’s Ministry of
Foreign Affairs said. Russia’s Defense Ministry said in a
statement on its website that while jets were in the area as
part of an exercise, they didn’t violate Japanese airspace.
Japan and Russia have a territorial dispute over several islands
near Hokkaido.  The alleged incursion followed accusations that Chinese
ships used weapons-targeting radar on a Japanese destroyer and
helicopter last month near the islands claimed by both
countries.  China said yesterday that its ships didn’t use fire-control
radar on Japan naval forces in the East China Sea last month,
and called Japanese statements on the issue “irresponsible.”
Radar was used simply to monitor a helicopter on Jan. 19 and to
track the Japanese destroyer Yudachi on Jan. 30, the Ministry of
Defense said in a statement posted on its website.  That incident has undermined efforts to ease tensions
between Asia’s two biggest economies over the territorial
dispute. The uninhabited islands, called Diaoyu in China and
Senkaku in Japan, lie in an area rich in fish, oil and natural
gas. Japan’s purchase of three of the islands in September
prompted violent protests in China that damaged Japanese
businesses.  ‘Rogue’ Country  New U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  discussed regional
security issues, including North Korea’s nuclear and missiles
program, with Chinese Foreign Minister  Yang Jiechi  on Feb. 5,
according to State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland .  At the United Nations, diplomats are weighing how much
Chinese opposition they may face to further UN sanctions on
North Korea if it conducts a third nuclear blast, which South
Korea says appears imminent.  Huntsman said China is “very concerned” about North
Korea, a country “that is rogue, that is untrustworthy.”  “They’re going to be very aggressive against North Korea
because the implications are very real economically for the
Chinese,” he said. “So you look at the whole of Northeast
Asia, which is soon to be 20 percent of the world’s GDP --Japan,
South Korea, North Korea, Taiwan, the northern part of China.
It’s a bustling part of the world.”  When one country such as North Korea “engages in saber-
rattling, the whole region becomes on edge, and it gums up trade
and commerce, and everyone, everyone feels the pain of that,
China particularly,” Huntsman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Atlas in Washington at 
 tatlas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  