-- Huntsman Calls Rove’s Primary Plan ‘Yesterday’s Ballgame’
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2013-02-09T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/huntsman-calls-rove-plan-for-primaries-yesterday-s-ballgame-.html
Former Republican presidential
candidate  Jon Huntsman  called strategist  Karl Rove  “yesterday’s
ballgame” as he urged his party to shun political tactics in
favor of ideas on improving government.  Huntsman dismissed as “politics, you know,” Rove’s plan
to financially support in Republican primaries candidates who
are deemed more electable in November. The effort has drawn
attacks from anti-tax Tea Party groups and other conservative
activists.  “I think he’s kind of yesterday’s ballgame,” Huntsman
said of Rove during an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“Political Capital With  Al Hunt ,” airing this weekend.
“Politics isn’t going to win the elections for us. It’s not
about people. It’s about ideas. And the ideas are going to drive
people to victory.”  Those ideas should include changing the way government
works, such as restrictions on campaign spending, limiting
congressional terms, requiring nonpartisan redistricting, and
taking on banks deemed too big to fail, Huntsman said.  “We don’t have any ideas now that are big enough and bold
enough and visionary enough for most Americans to say, ‘I like
that, I want to sign on, and I want that person to lead me to
the future,’” Huntsman, 52, said of his party.  The party of Abraham Lincoln, Theodore Roosevelt, Dwight
Eisenhower and  Ronald Reagan  has “a whole vast literature of
things we’ve done to shape this country into what it is today,”
Huntsman said.  No Labels  Huntsman, a former Utah governor, and Senator  Joe Manchin ,
a West Virginia Democrat, are the national leaders of No Labels,
a group urging representatives of both parties to reach
bipartisan solutions.  Along those lines, Huntsman said that added tax revenue
sought by Democrats and cuts to entitlement programs pushed by
Republicans should all be weighed as solutions for avoiding $1.2
trillion in automatic spending reductions set to begin next
month.  Huntsman said tax loopholes should be curtailed, providing
the government with more money.  “Some see it as revenue raising,” Huntsman said of his
proposal. “I see it as cleaning the tax code of all of the
encumbrances that keep us from growing.”  He also said that spending cuts should involve entitlement
programs, such as Medicare and Social Security, rather than fall
solely on defense and domestic programs.  “You want to blow a hole in basic research and education
support and other very important non-discretionary matters? This
is how you do it, which hurts the economy,” he said of the
automatic cuts.  Birther Issue  Huntsman sought the Republican presidential nomination in
2012 and dropped out after finishing third in the New Hampshire
primary last year. He endorsed former Massachusetts Governor
 Mitt Romney , who lost to President  Barack Obama  in the general
election.  As part of a winning election strategy, Huntsman said
Republicans can no longer be the party that questions whether
Obama’s birth certificate is real.  “The next big thing for Republicans is going to be how you
make the system work, which is reforming government,” he said.
“There’s a mood change in this country that says, ‘All right,
you’ve blown up the system, now you’ve got to make it work.’”  Louisiana Governor  Bobby Jindal , who in a speech last month
to fellow Republican leaders stressed the need to “stop being
the stupid party,” had said in 2011 he would sign legislation
requiring presidential candidates to prove they were U.S.
citizens.  “It’s a message bill,” Huntsman said of that measure.
“Messaging and pandering and pledge-signing are all things that
take our eye off the ball. We ought to be focused on a strategy
for this country that speaks to life, liberty, pursuit of
happiness, growing the economic base, and giving people
opportunity. If we’re not focused on that, we’re wasting time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jonathan D. Salant  in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 