-- Vale Said to Seek Early Rebates at Halted Argentine Project
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2013-02-08T20:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/vale-said-to-seek-early-tax-rebates-at-halted-argentine-project.html
Vale SA , the third-biggest miner,
asked Argentina to grant its halted potash project permission to
receive tax rebates early in a bid to make the $5.9 billion
venture viable, said a person with knowledge of the discussions.  The request would allow the Rio de Janeiro-based company to
be reimbursed for value-added tax on its investments during
development rather than over the production years of the
project, said the person, declining to be named because talks
between authorities and company officials are private.  Vale hasn’t received at least $300 million in rebates its
entitled to under the current regime, the person said. Those
delays and additional demands from provincial governments are
making the project economically unviable, the person said.  Work at the Rio Colorado fertilizer project in the
country’s western province of Mendoza was suspended indefinitely
last month. Vale Chief Executive Officer  Murilo Ferreira  is
selling assets, cutting investments and seeking partners for
lower-return projects as profits are expected to fall to a
three-year low amid lower commodities prices.  Vale hasn’t received an answer from the government on the
request, the person said, adding that the company isn’t seeking
tax waivers. Mendoza Governor Francisco Perez said this week
that Vale was seeking tax deferrals during the construction
phase. That request had been rejected, Perez said in an audio
file e-mailed by the province’s press office.  The company didn’t seek any exchange-rate benefit to resume
the project, the person said, adding that tax rebates are part
of existing legislation in the Latin American country.  Shares Gain  Vale’s press office in Rio declined to comment when
contacted by Bloomberg News today. Jessica Rey, a spokeswoman
for Argentina’s Deputy Economy Minister Axel Kicillof, and
Horacio Mizrahi, spokesman for the Planning Ministry, didn’t
reply to calls seeking comment.  Vale  gained  0.8 percent to close at 37.74 reais in Sao
Paulo today. Vale’s market value of $105 billion makes it the
biggest mining company after BHP Billiton Plc and Rio Tinto
Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  