-- Chavez Risks Backlash After Venezuela Devalues Bolivar 32%
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   P o n s
-- 2013-02-09T18:39:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/venezuela-devalues-currency-from-33-to-6-30-bolivars-per-dollar.html
Venezuela devalued its currency for
the fifth time in nine years, a move that may undermine support
for ailing President  Hugo Chavez  and his allies ahead of
possible elections later this year.  South America’s biggest oil producer may have to call
elections if Chavez, who hasn’t been seen for two months after
undergoing cancer surgery in Cuba, dies or steps down. He
ordered his government to weaken the exchange rate by 32 percent
to 6.3 bolivars per dollar starting Feb. 13, Finance Minister
 Jorge Giordani  told reporters yesterday in Caracas.  A spending spree that almost tripled the fiscal deficit
last year helped Chavez, 58, win a third six-year term. The
devaluation can help narrow the budget deficit by increasing the
amount of bolivars the government receives from oil exports. Yet
the move also threatens to accelerate annual  inflation  that
reached 22 percent in January.  “There is surely going to be a political cost, which may
weigh against the Chavistas and hence be viewed favorably from
the markets if it shifts protest votes to the opposition,”
 Siobhan Morden , the head of Latin America fixed income strategy
at Jefferies Group Inc. in New York, said in a note to clients.  Former opposition presidential candidate  Henrique Capriles Radonski  said the measure “mocked Venezuelans” and he
criticized the government for attempting to hide the impact of
the devaluation by announcing it the day before the annual
carnival holidays.  Oil Prices  “Oil is at $106 and they have to devalue!” Capriles, who
lost to Chavez by 11 percentage points in elections last
October, said in a message posted on his Twitter account. “They
spent the money in campaign, corruption, presents abroad! Lying
government!”  If Chavez is unable to finish his term, the government must
call elections within 30 days of his stepping down.  Chavez has not been seen or heard from since he underwent a
fourth surgery for an undisclosed type of cancer Dec. 11. Before
traveling to Cuba, he anointed Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  as
his successor, urging Venezuelans to vote for the 50-year-old
former bus driver and labor union leader should he die or step
down because of his health.  Maduro said yesterday that Chavez is making economic policy
from Havana and that he is focused on measures meant to balance
the economy. The devaluation came on the 30th anniversary of a
similar event known as Black Friday in Venezuela.  Enough Dollars  “Venezuela has sufficient foreign currency to guarantee
that the economy functions,” Maduro said during a televised
meeting yesterday after the measures were announced. Earlier in
the day he said Venezuelan have to “do more with less.”  The central bank’s so-called Cadivi system, which sells
dollars to importers at the official exchange rate, will provide
$35 billion this year, bank President  Nelson Merentes  said
yesterday. That’s the same amount Cadivi sold last year,
according to a Dec. 31 central bank report. The Sitme exchange,
which sold at a weaker, parallel rate and will be discontinued,
provided about $8 billion last year.  Maduro said Venezuela may create a complimentary currency
system in the future and that the creation of dollar bank
accounts could help satisfy demand for greenbacks. He didn’t
provide details.  Venezuela in July eased currency rules to allow foreign and
local companies to hold foreign currency accounts at local banks
that can be exchanged at the official rate.  Dollar Supply  While a weaker currency may stoke inflation, it may also
ease shortages of goods ranging from toilet paper to cars
because the government was restraining the supply of dollars it
allocated to the private sector as it waited for a more
favorable rate, said  Francisco Rodriguez , a Latin America
economist at Bank of America Corp. in New York.  “Any tackling of the massive economic distortions, even if
far more is required, is positively viewed by markets,”  Kathryn Rooney Vera , a strategist at Bulltick Capital Markets, said in
an interview from Miami. “We expected more, and more is indeed
needed to correct fiscal imbalances and adjust economic
distortions, but this is something and there may be more to
come.”  The weaker exchange rate will give the central government
an additional 84.5 billion bolivars ($13.4 billion) in revenue,
mostly from oil sales done in dollars, according to Caracas-
based research company Ecoanalitica.  The yield on Venezuela’s dollar bonds maturing in 2027 fell
10 basis points, or 0.10 percentage points, to 8.70 percent
yesterday. Venezuelan bonds have returned 39 percent over the
past year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBIG index.  Colgate, Avon  Colgate-Palmolive Co., the world’s largest toothpaste
maker, dropped 1.5 percent to $108.49 at the close in New York
and Avon Products Inc. slipped 2.5 percent to $16.85. Avon is
the world’s largest door-to-door cosmetics seller. Although
Venezuela has only 0.4 percent of the world’s population, it has
a disproportionate share of sales for many consumer products
companies,  Connie Maneaty , an analyst at BMO Capital Markets,
wrote in a Sept. 27 note.  Venezuela’s fiscal gap widened to 11 percent of gross
domestic product last year from 4 percent in 2011, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. Giordani said that while the
government has sufficient revenue, devaluing will encourage more
efficiency in the economy.  “This isn’t a change that was done for fiscal reasons,”
he said. “We have sufficient revenue but we need to adjust the
accounts. We need an increase in efficiency and efficiency means
spending less.”  Inflation Surge  Annual inflation accelerated to 22.2 percent in January,
the fastest pace in eight months, led by a jump in food prices.
Prices climbed 3.3 percent in January after rising 3.5 percent
in December.  In the unregulated market, the bolivar weakened 6 percent
yesterday to 19.53 bolivars per dollar, according to Lechuga
Verde, a website that tracks the rate. Venezuelans use the
unregulated credit market because the central bank doesn’t
supply enough dollars at the official rates to meet demand.  The government will keep the currency at 4.3 per dollar for
certain imports that were ordered before Jan. 15, Giordani said.  The central bank-administered currency market known as
Sitme that traded at 5.3 bolivars per dollar will be eliminated,
Merentes said. The market had been used by some importers.  Earlier Devaluation  Chavez last devalued in December 2010 when he weakened an
exchange rate on so-called essential goods by 40 percent,
unifying the two fixed foreign exchange rates it had at the
time. In January 2010, he had created a multi-tier exchange
system in an attempt to spur non-oil exports and curb the
consumption of luxury imports. The move prompted Venezuelan
consumers to rush to buy appliances including flat-screen
televisions before prices were adjusted.  While Bank of America’s Rodriguez estimates that devaluing
the currency will reduce the government’s budget deficit by
half, he said the government will have to take further measures
within the next year.  “It gets them through their most urgent problem which is
to generate more bolivars to finance the current spending
flow,” Rodriguez said. “This is a move that will turn out to
be temporary. They will have to devalue again by the end of the
year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  