-- Venezuelan Inflation Rate Rises to Highest in Eight Months
-- B y   A n a t o l y   K u r m a n a e v   a n d   N a t h a n   C r o o k s
-- 2013-02-08T18:31:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/venezuelan-inflation-rate-rises-to-highest-in-eight-months-1-.html
Venezuelan inflation accelerated to
22.2 percent in January, the fastest pace in eight months, led
by a jump in food prices, the central bank said.  The nationwide inflation rate rose from 20.1 percent the
month before, the bank said today in an e-mailed statement.
Prices climbed 3.3 percent in the month, exceeding the 2.7
percent median estimate of six economists in a Bloomberg survey.
Food prices leaped 5.3 percent in January.  Since President  Hugo Chavez  won re-election in October, the
bolivar has fallen more than 35 percent to 18.41 bolivars per
dollar on the black market, where many non-essential imports are
financed, according to Lechuga Verde, a website that tracks the
rate. Shortages of imported goods ranging from toilet paper to
poultry have increased as the government more than halved the
supply of dollars at official rates since winning the election,
according to Bulltick Capital Markets.  “The most important inflationary factor is the increase in
the unofficial exchange rate, which is the main part of price
formation,”  Alejandro Arreaza , an economic at Barclays Plc,
said by phone on Feb. 5. “The government has reduced dollar
supply amid a huge increase in liquidity caused by pre-election
public expenditure.”  Along with food prices, which account for 37 percent of the
inflation index, restaurants and hotels pushed prices up 4.2
percent last month, the central bank said.  Vice President  Nicolas Maduro  has appeared several times on
state television in recent weeks, ordering the national guard to
seize producers it says are hoarding food supplies and promising
to make life difficult for “bourgeoisie” businesses he accuses
of trying to sabotage the economy.  Consumer prices in the capital Caracas rose 3.3 percent in
January from the month before, the bank said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nathan Crooks at 
 ncrooks@bloomberg.net  