-- Virgin Atlantic on Offensive as Delta Deal Ends Wilderness Years
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2013-02-08T10:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/virgin-atlantic-on-offensive-as-delta-deal-ends-wilderness-years.html
Virgin Atlantic Airways Ltd. will go
on the offensive under new Chief Executive Officer  Craig Kreeger 
as an equity deal with  Delta Air Lines Inc . gives it the backing
to take on bigger rivals, outgoing CEO  Steve Ridgway  said.  Kreeger, a 53-year-old American, was appointed to the top
position on Jan. 8, four weeks after Delta agreed to pay
Singapore Airlines Ltd. $360 million for a 49 percent stake in
Virgin, which is majority owned by billionaire  Richard Branson .  “There’s now a shareholder with a significant strategic
interest in what Virgin Atlantic brings them,” Ridgway said in
an interview. “We’ve been in fighting mode for the last four to
five years. This should put us back on a growth trajectory.”  The first task for Kreeger, who took over on Feb. 1, will
be to expedite the two-month old joint venture agreement with
Delta, Ridgway said. The new CEO’s 27 years at AMR Corp., where
he helped coordinate a joint venture between American Airlines
and BA, should help him deliver on the new tie-up, he said.  “He brings a wealth of experience at American in dealing
and working with British Airways,” Ridgway said yesterday in
London. “That’s what we need because we’ve got to put together
this North Atlantic joint venture now and there is a set of
skills there that Virgin needs to have.”  Heathrow Strength  Delta and Virgin are seeking antitrust immunity that would
let them coordinate schedules and pricing and share costs and
sales from 31 joint-venture flights over the Atlantic regardless
of whose plane operates the route. They also will offer
reciprocal frequent-flier benefits and use of airport lounges.  The deal gives Delta a platform at London Heathrow airport,
Europe’s busiest and the home base for British Airways, Virgin’s
biggest rival and the top carrier in the world-leading North
Atlantic corporate travel market.  The Atlanta-based-carrier “didn’t have the right presence
in London, which you need to have if you’re going to be a
corporate player, and we bring that,” Ridgway said.  Kreeger will also need to reinvigorate a business battered
by the global economic downturn, rising fuel prices and fast-
consolidating, better-connected rivals.  Virgin Atlantic had an 80.2 million-pound ($125.9 million)
loss in the year through February and has delayed adding bigger
planes while cutting unprofitable routes to destinations
including Nairobi in Kenya, and Kingston, Jamaica.  “Let’s face it, it’s been brutal,” Ridgway said, adding
that the global economy appears to be stabilizing. There’s
“that bit of blue sky down the road,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  