-- Wall Street Job Seekers Find No Bottom for Analysts: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-02-08T01:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/wall-street-job-seekers-find-no-bottom-for-analysts-muni-credit.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal market is
proving an oasis for Wall Street job hunters as the dwindling
role of bond insurance and yields at four-decade lows fuel
demand for analysis of the 89,000 U.S. local governments.  BlackRock Inc. ,  Franklin Advisers Inc.  and Vanguard Group -
- which oversee about $300 billion in munis combined -- are
among money managers adding muni staff as the ranks of top-
graded issuers fell about 80 percent since 2007, close to a
record low. In the same period, membership in the National
Federation of Municipal Analysts has risen 30 percent.  The number of AAA local bonds has diminished since the
financial crisis, when insurers including Ambac Assurance Corp.
and  MBIA Inc.  were downgraded because of losses on guarantees of
subprime-mortgage-backed debt. Even as defaults last year were
the fewest since at least 2009, bankruptcy filings by three
California cities underscored the need for research vetting
weaker credits when hunting for higher yields.  “As a new analyst jumping in at this time, you are in the
thick of it immediately,”  Kevin Maloney , 23, a BlackRock muni
analyst who started in 2011, said in an interview at the
company’s office in Princeton, New Jersey.  Salary Bump  The world’s biggest asset manager has hired three muni
credit analysts in the past three years. Maloney, who majored in
finance at Drexel University in Philadelphia, began by covering
localities, including in Rhode Island, where the city of  Central
Falls  filed for bankruptcy in August 2011.  Muni analysts such as Maloney have bucked a trend of
dismissals at financial firms worldwide as declining trading
volumes and regulator demands for more capital lead banks to
trim costs. Wall Street companies have announced more than
300,000 job cuts since the start of 2011.  The demand for muni analysts has also raised salaries for
such positions, said  Paul Sorbera , president of Alliance
Consulting, a New York-based search firm.  “I’ve seen some people who are vice-president-level who
would’ve never made more than $200,000 in a job like that who
are now making $400,000,” Sorbera said. “Pre-credit crisis, a
lot of these people weren’t in high demand.”  Cuts Elsewhere  In the past three months, Lazard Capital Markets LLC cut
six senior research analysts covering areas such as defense,
while Avian Securities LLC, a research firm focusing on
technology stocks, said it would close after 15 years in
business.  Yet jobs monitoring localities continue to surface.  Hedberg search , a Minneapolis-based company that
specializes in investment management jobs, placed seven senior
muni analysts in the past year across the country in Chicago,
Minneapolis, Boston, Atlanta and Los Angeles, according to its
website. The company is seeking a muni analyst for an Atlanta
money manager with $2 billion in assets.  BlackRock also added  Joseph Gankiewicz  in 2010 and  Jenna Bryan-Krug  in 2011 to its muni analysis group. Gankiewicz, 31,
previously worked for the company advising clients, while Bryan-
Krug, 30, came from Boenning & Scattergood Inc., where she
assisted with public-finance underwriting.  San Mateo, California-based Franklin increased its muni
analyst squad by 46 percent since 2008, to 19. Valley Forge,
Pennsylvania-based Vanguard has 31 muni credit researchers, up
from 24 at the end of 2007.  Record Downgrades  The hiring may continue as muni ratings suffer in the wake
of the longest recession since the 1930s. Moody’s Investors
Service said last week it downgraded a record $311 billion of
debt in 2012, while raising $24 billion.  About 11 percent of munis issued last year had Aaa ratings
from Moody’s, close to a record low and down from 57 percent in
2007, according to J.P. Morgan Securities LLC.  Assured Guaranty Municipal Corp., which last year insured
$13 billion in new bonds and $1.3 billion in the secondary
market, had its rating cut two levels last month by Moody’s.
More than half of new muni sales used to be backed by insurers.
That is now down to 4 percent.  “A lot of firms were panicking a little bit” once
insurers lost their AAA grades, said Scott Hedberg, founder of
the recruiting company. “They were definitely concerned with
what their portfolios held, and there was a big push for getting
muni analysts. There’s still a need.”  The NFMA has 1,322 members, up from 1,019 in 2008 and more
than twice as many as two decades ago, according to  Lisa Good ,
the Pittsburgh-based group’s executive director.  Credit Confidence  As analyst ranks have grown, investors have become more
confident buying uninsured or lower-rated debt. AAA securities
are trailing the broader market’s return to start 2013, after
lagging behind for an unprecedented four years, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “In a low-yield environment, basis points matter,” said
 Jeff Burger , a muni portfolio manager at Standish Mellon Asset
Management and chairman of the NFMA. Boston-based Standish has
tripled its muni analysts since 2008, to six, he said.  “You can find those opportunities with a professional
staff,” he said.  The interest rate on benchmark 10-year munis fell about
0.01 percentage point to 1.86 percent yesterday, declining from
the highest since August, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Following is a pending sale:  NEW MEXICO  plans to sell about $127 million in general-
obligation bonds via competitive sale as soon as Feb. 19, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The state is one of 13 to carry a
top rating from Moody’s. (Added Feb. 8)  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Brian Chappatta  in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  