-- Wheat Futures Advance on Mounting U.S. Drought Concerns
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a   a n d   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2013-02-08T21:36:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/wheat-futures-advance-on-mounting-u-s-drought-concerns.html
Wheat futures rose on mounting
concern that the most-severe drought since the 1930s will erode
prospects for the winter crop in the U.S., the world’s biggest
grain exporter.  Little or no rain fell in the past 30 days in parts of
Kansas, the biggest U.S. winter-wheat grower, National Weather
Service data show. Parts of the southern Great Plains are in an
“exceptional drought,” facing widespread crop and pasture
losses and water shortages, according to the U.S. Drought
 Monitor .  “The western Wheat Belt area is dry, and we’re expecting a
shorter crop with this lack of adequate moisture,”  Jamey Kohake , the branch manager at Paragon Investments in Silver
Lake, Kansas, said in a telephone interview.  Wheat futures for March delivery rose 0.25 cent to close at
$7.5625 a bushel at 2 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.  Earlier, the price climbed as much as 2 percent after the
U.S. Department of Agriculture cut its forecast for global
inventory by 3.5 percent on signs of higher use in livestock
feed.  This week, the grain dropped 1.1 percent, the third
straight decline, on signs of slack demand for U.S. exports  Kansas City Board of Trade futures were 43.5 cents a bushel
above the Chicago price. The premium has tumbled 25 percent this
month.  High-protein hard red winter wheat used mostly in bread
trades in Kansas City, and the CBOT offers the Midwest soft red
winter variety used in cakes and cookies.  Wheat is the fourth-largest U.S. crop, valued at $14.4
billion in 2011, behind corn, soybeans and hay, government data
show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Katia Dmitrieva  in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
 Tony C. Dreibus  in Chicago at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  