-- Wholesale Inventories in U.S. Unexpectedly Fell in December
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-02-08T15:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/wholesale-inventories-in-u-s-unexpectedly-decreased-in-december.html
Inventories  at U.S. wholesalers
unexpectedly fell in December for the first time in six months
as companies tried to keep pace with cooling sales.  The 0.1 percent decrease in stockpiles followed a revised
0.4 percent rise in November that was smaller than originally
reported, the Commerce Department said today in Washington. The
median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey  called for a 0.4 percent
gain. Sales were little changed after jumping 2.2 percent in
November.  The drop in stockpiles at distributors means inventories
will probably subtract even more from fourth-quarter economic
growth than currently estimated, partially offsetting a December
plunge in the trade deficit that will help boost gross domestic
product. At the current pace of sales, wholesalers had enough
goods on hand to last 1.19 months, the same as in November.  “We want to see inventories and sales rising at the same
time,” said  Guy LeBas , chief fixed-income strategist at Janney
Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, and the best
forecaster of wholesale inventories over the past two years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. “There will be a
little bit of bounce” in stockpiles early this year, he said.  The median forecast for wholesale inventories was based on
a Bloomberg survey of 26 economists. Estimates ranged from
increases of 0.3 percent to 0.7 percent. The prior month’s
figure was revised from a previously reported 0.6 percent gain.  Another report today showed the U.S.  trade deficit  narrowed
more than forecast in December, led by record exports of
petroleum.  Trade Deficit  The gap shrank 20.7 percent to $38.5 billion, lower than
any estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 73 economists and the
least since January 2010, according to Commerce Department
figures. The jump in fuel sales to overseas buyers, combined
with purchases of the fewest barrels of imported crude in almost
16 years, led to the smallest petroleum deficit since August
2009.  Stocks rose after the reports and as corporate earnings
topped estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.5
percent to 1,516.84 at 10:17 a.m. in New York.  Wholesalers’ stockpiles of durable goods, or those meant to
last several years, increased 0.2 percent, today’s report
showed. Gains for electrical equipment and hardware were almost
completely offset by a 3.8 percent plunge for automobiles, the
biggest since March 2009, and a 2.5 percent drop in furniture,
the most since July 2009, today’s report showed.  The value of unsold non-durable goods fell 0.6 percent as
pharmaceuticals and farm products declined.  Improving retail sales in January may mean wholesalers will
need to restock warehouses at the start of 2013.  Sales Improving  Last month, same-store sales for more than 20 companies
tracked by Retail Metrics Inc. surged 4.5 percent from January
2012, the biggest year-to-year gain since September 2011.  Macy’s
Inc. , Gap Inc. and Target Corp. led U.S. retailers to the
biggest monthly same-store sales gain in more than a year as
shoppers snapped up discounted merchandise.  “Our guests continue to shop with discipline in the face
of a slow economic recovery and new pressures, including recent
payroll tax increases,” Target Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer  Gregg Steinhafel  said in a Feb. 7 statement.  Retail stockpiles will be included in the business
inventories report due Feb. 13.  Job gains are helping sustain consumer spending. Employers
added 157,000 workers in January after a revised 196,000 gain in
December and a 247,000 jump in November, the Labor Department
reported last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  