-- Wounded Armenian Presidential Contender to Request Delay of Vote
-- B y   S a r a   K h o j o y a n
-- 2013-02-08T17:20:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/wounded-armenian-presidential-contender-to-request-delay-of-vote.html
The Armenian presidential candidate
wounded in a shooting will consider applying to the
Constitutional Court to postpone the election scheduled for Feb.
18 after his condition worsened.  Paruyr Hayrikyan, who had bullet fragments removed from his
right shoulder after the Jan. 31 attack, will file for delay on
Feb. 10 unless he can leave the hospital and continue
campaigning, Karo Eghnukyan, his campaign spokesman, said today
by phone. Under Armenia’s constitution, Hayrikyan has the right
to request a two-week delay.  “He can’t use his right hand and is taking painkillers,”
Eghnukyan said. Earlier this week Hayrikyan’s lawyer, Levon
Baghdasaryan, had said he was well enough to continue the
campaign.  Two people were arrested yesterday on suspicion of
attempted murder, the National Security Service said.  Hayrikyan, 63, has been one of eight candidates running for
the presidency in the sixth election since the former Soviet
republic’s independence in 1991. He had a 4 percent backing,
according to a Gallup International Association poll of 1,020
people last week with a margin of error of 3.1 percentage
points. President  Serzh Sargsyan  is favored to win the vote with
66 percent support.  The leader of the National Consent party, Aram Harutyunyan,
asked the Central Electoral Commission to withdraw his candidacy
after a one-day hunger strike in front of the commission’s
building, the CEC said today. Harutyunyan called on the other
candidates to quit the race, leaving incumbent Sargsyan as the
only contender.  Andrias Ghukasyan, another of the candidates, is continuing
an 18-day hunger strike in protest of the “fake elections.”
Health Minister Derenik Dumanyan visited him today, asking him
to stop and undergo a full medical examination, the minister’s
spokeswoman, Anahit Hayatyan, said by phone.  “I will announce whether I will undergo the examination
today or tomorrow but for now I am continuing the hunger
strike,” Ghukasyan said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Khojoyan in Moscow at 
 skhojoyan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  