-- China Yuan Erases Gain to Touch Eight-Week Low Before Holiday
-- B y   F i o n   L i   a n d   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2013-02-08T08:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-08/yuan-advances-most-in-four-weeks-as-export-growth-tops-estimates.html
China’s yuan erased an earlier gain
and touched an eight-week low on speculation investors pared
holdings ahead of next week’s Lunar New Year holiday.  The currency lost 0.09 percent since Feb. 1, falling for a
third week, on concern a slide in the yen will prompt Chinese
policy makers to rein in the exchange rate to protect exporters.
The yuan strengthened as much as 0.14 percent earlier today as a
report showed the nation’s overseas shipments grew more than
economists estimated and after the central bank bolstered the
currency’s reference rate by the most since October. The yen
fell 7.7 percent against the dollar this year.  “People are just taking positions off because they have a
very long holiday coming up,” said  Andy Ji , a foreign-exchange
strategist in Singapore at Commonwealth Bank of Australia.  The yuan closed at 6.2325 per dollar in Shanghai, compared
with 6.2322 yesterday, prices from the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System show. The currency touched 6.2417 today, the
weakest level since Dec. 14. The yuan is allowed to diverge a
maximum 1 percent from the daily reference rate.  The People’s Bank of China raised the  fixing  by 0.17
percent today to 6.2793 per dollar, the biggest increase since
Oct. 15. The yen rebounded today after European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi said the euro’s recent gains may slow
growth. China’s  overseas sales  climbed 25 percent in January
from a year earlier, official data showed today. That compares
with a 14.1 percent advance in December and a median estimate in
a Bloomberg News survey of economists for a 17.5 percent gain.  Trade Surplus  “China no longer has to weaken the fixing to compensate
for the impact from a weakening yen,” said  Dariusz Kowalczyk , a
Hong Kong-based strategist at Credit Agricole CIB. China is set
“for a stronger currency this year as the trade surplus is
higher,” he said.  Chinese markets will be closed next week for the Lunar New
Year. The holiday fell in the last full week of January in 2012.
The trade surplus was $29.15 billion in January, compared with a
median projection for $24.7 billion in the survey, and $27.1
billion a year ago.  The government reported today that annual inflation slowed
last month to 2 percent, a number that may have been distorted
by the timing of the Lunar New Year holiday and matching the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. In December, the
figure was 2.5 percent.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan dropped 0.06
percent to 6.2258 per dollar today for a weekly loss of 0.20
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Twelve-month
non-deliverable forwards were little changed at 6.3205, a 1.4
percent discount to the onshore spot rate. The contracts slipped
0.02 percent this week.  One-month implied volatility in the yuan, a measure of
expected moves in the exchange rate used to price options,
declined eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point, this week
to 1.3 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net ;
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  