-- 
‘High Risk, High Reward’ Investment Banking Still Seducing U.K. Graduates

-- B y   B e n   E d w a r d s
-- 
2011-08-31T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/-high-risk-high-reward-banking-still-seducing-u-k-graduates.html
U.K. graduates made more
applications to  investment banking  than any other industry for
the first time since 2008, the year Lehman Holdings Brothers
Inc. collapsed.  Graduates can earn starting salaries of about 42,000 pounds
($69,000) a year, according to a report from  High Fliers
Research Ltd. , a U.K. market researcher that specializes in
graduate recruitment. In return, prospective employees can
expect to work at least 12 hours a day. They will also have to
compete with the 50,000 workers that have been released by U.K.
banks this year, according to Bloomberg data.  “It’s probably the worst time to come into investment
banking for a graduate,” Ravi Rajani, 22, a graduate from Cass
Business School in London, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
an issue of supply and demand. Supply is so huge.”  The number of candidates seeking work in  London ’s financial
services climbed 32 percent in July, as bankers sought new jobs
ahead of likely cuts at their firms, according to recruiter
 Astbury Marsden . The High Fliers survey was based on interviews
with 17,851 final year students from 30 U.K. universities.  Katie Little, 23, from Brighton,  England , has just
completed a masters in business management at Leeds University.
She said the excitement of “high risk, high reward” is what
attracts her to investment banking, although she realizes
opportunities are limited.  “The dream is investment banking but it’s hard to get into
without any experience,” she said in a telephone interview.  Job Cuts  European banks have eliminated about 67,000 roles this
year, according to Bloomberg data, as concern about the
sovereign debt crisis unsettles financial markets.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  will cut 30,000 jobs by the end of 2013
as first half investment-banking profit fell 12 percent to $4.81
billion.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said it will lose 3,000 roles, while  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  said it will shed 2,000 posts as
revenue in its securities unit dropped 35 percent in the second
quarter.  UBS AG (UBSN)  is cutting 3,500 jobs, or five percent of its
workforce, mainly from investment banking.  Rajani had 25 applications for graduate programs rejected
after finishing university before impressing with the scope of
his questions at a Barclays Capital presentation, being invited
to apply for an internship.  “If I get knocked back, fine, I just keep on trying,” he
said. “If it doesn’t work out in investment banking in the
U.K., I would look to  Asia  or emerging market countries.
Investment banking is all I want to do.”  ‘Big Swerve’  The prospect of increased regulation crimping bank earnings
and hiring may deter some candidates, according to Jonathan
Evans, chairman of executive-search firm Sammons Associates.  “I would think a lot of people are potentially giving it a
big swerve at the moment,” he said in a telephone interview.
“There aren’t the amount of jobs that there normally are and I
don’t think the pay and rations are as they used to be.”  In the 12 months to March, 14 billion pounds was paid out
in bonuses to workers in the financial and insurance industries,
according to data from the  Office for National Statistics , down
from 19 billion pounds in 2007.  Lenders are also being forced to cut costs in order to hold
more capital as part of new regulatory rules to protect
themselves against insolvency.  “I’m not putting my hopes up because it’s just so
competitive,” Dan Davis, 22, said in a telephone interview.
“I’m now looking at other options, smaller investment banks or
asset management.”  Davis is pursuing a career in investment banking after
completing an economics degree at Leeds University and said he
refuses to be put off by the long hours or the turmoil in the
banking industry.  The main concern is the “sheer amount of people applying
for one single graduate job,” he said.  Campus Recruiting  Martin Birchall, managing director of High Fliers, said
investment banks have been back out on campus “with a real
vengeance” this year, even as they are cutting jobs elsewhere.  “They’ve not quite restored all of the vacancies they had
in 2007 and 2008 but there is quite a bit of debate over whether
those pre-recession levels of recruiting were bumper years
anyway,” he said in a telephone interview.  RBS said it’s recruited more than 450 graduates globally
this year and expects to add a similar amount next year. Chris
Jackson, graduate program manager for RBS global banking and
markets, said the company sees its graduate program as an
essential part of its rebuilding process.  ‘Investment’  “Whilst the approach may seem contrary to prevailing
market conditions, it is our view that these hires are an
investment that will pay off over a two to four year time
frame,” he said in an e-mailed response to questions.  High Fliers’ report shows that about half of entry-level
jobs at investment banks will be filled by graduates who have
already completed work experience with the company.  Prospective bankers must accept that they will be entering
an industry where job cuts are likely to continue in future.  “In the past banks didn’t cut jobs, they just didn’t pay
bonuses,” said Sammon’s Evans. “Now because basic salaries are
so high, the short-term approach is to slash jobs, it’s as
simple as that.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Edwards in London at 
 bedwards35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  