-- 
’September 11’ Show Has Hulking Steel, Blowing Paper: Interview

-- B y   J a m e s   T a r m y
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/-september-11-show-presents-hulking-steel-blowing-newspaper-interview.html
It seems impossible: a dynamic,
thought-provoking art show about the terrorist attacks on  New
York  that’s likely to offend no one. Yet Peter Eleey, curator of
the exhibition “September 11” at MoMA PS1 in  Long Island City ,
Queens, may have pulled off just that.  With pieces as varied as a hulking sculpture made of scrap
metal by the artist John Chamberlain and the photograph of a
stray piece of newspaper by Diane Arbus, the exhibition aims to
address the memory of 9/11 while sidestepping explicit visual
representations of the twin towers or the day itself.  Eleey, dressed in a light-blue checked shirt and jeans, sat
with me in the courtyard of PS1 to discuss the show.  Tarmy: How did you begin to approach an art exhibit about
9/11?  Eleey: I started thinking about it around the second
anniversary, when I opened the New York Times and encountered a
piece by the artist Ellsworth Kelly.  He proposed that Ground Zero should be a mound of grass,
just an abstract field covering this site of trauma. It
resonated as the beginning of how one could look at 9/11 through
the frame of art.  Tarmy: How does this exhibit contribute to the discourse
surrounding the attacks?  Terror’s Impact  Eleey: I hope this show helps us to think about the impact
of 9/11 on our cultural collective imagination: If you were in a
bar a couple of months after Sept. 11, and you saw two cups next
to each other, you saw the towers. We saw echoes of them
everywhere.  Tarmy: How did you choose what went into the show?  Eleey: It is a very personal selection of work. It’s not in
any way an authoritative show about the attacks or the events.  It’s more a way of thinking about it differently through a
range of art that evokes images from that day.  Tarmy: As you put the exhibition together, did you feel
beholden to any specific people or groups?  Eleey: I understood my responsibility to be first and
foremost respectful to those who were directly affected by the
attacks.  But beyond that it became difficult to think about -- there
are too many people who own different aspects of 9/11, and there
was no way that I could be responsible for all of them. And so I
didn’t try.  Tarmy: Other than the Kelly piece, why didn’t you include
any art specifically about 9/11?  ‘Spectacularity’  Eleey: There hasn’t been, for me, a lot of significant art
made about 9/11. Of course, one can point to the fact that an
awful lot of the art made in the last decade is 9/11 art in some
ways.  Probably the biggest difficulty that 9/11 poses to art, at
least to visual art, is contained in the “spectacularity” of
the attacks themselves. Images were an extension of the
terrorists’ violence. So how do you deal with visual art when
the visual itself was part of the weapons deployed?  Tarmy: Do you think this is a political exhibition?  Eleey: I don’t know if you can do anything about Sept. 11
without it being political. My personal politics are something
that the show doesn’t engage or necessarily communicate, nor am
I interested in making a show that communicates a specific
political position.  Tarmy: You don’t think it’s sympathetic to one particular
way of perceiving the Sept. 11 attacks?  Eleey: I guess the audience will have to judge that. It’s
not what I was interested in. I want to expand the ways that we
can think and talk about it.  Tarmy: Could this exhibition be shown anywhere in the
country?  Resonance  Eleey: It’s a show, for me, that is focused on  New York
City . It would have a different kind of resonance somewhere
other than New York.  Tarmy: Are you happy with the way that the show came
together?  Eleey: I really don’t get to experience my own shows until
a couple of weeks after they open, so ask me then. I’ve made
choices that I thought a lot about, and I hope they’ll connect
with the broader public.  “September 11” runs at MoMA PS1, 22-25 Jackson Ave., Long
Island City, Queens, from Sept. 11 to Jan. 9. Information: +1-
718-784-2084;  http://ps1.org .  (James Tarmy writes for Muse, the arts and culture section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
James Tarmy in New York:  Jtarmy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 