-- 
Blackouts Drag on as Power Customers’ Patience Wears Thin

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   M i k e   L e e
-- 
2011-09-01T15:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/1-72-million-remain-without-power-after-irene.html
U.S. utilities from  Virginia  to
 Maine  are adding angry customers to their inventory of storm
damage as more than  1.11 million homes  and businesses remain
without power four days after Hurricane Irene moved into  Canada .  Electric utilities on the East Coast have brought in
thousands of workers to help to repair power lines and other
equipment amid flooded neighborhoods and fallen trees. Most
customers should have power back by the end of the day tomorrow,
utilities said. For other areas, including  Vermont  which was
struck by record floods, full power restoration may take weeks.  “Usually, people are very cooperative for the first three
days after a natural disaster,” said Matthew Cordaro, former
chief operating officer of the defunct Long Island Lighting Co.
and now a Shoreham, New York-based industry consultant. “After
three days, they do not give a damn what caused it. They want
their lights back on.”  Irene made landfall Aug. 27 as a Category 1 hurricane in
 North Carolina  before striking  New York  the next day as a
tropical storm. The weather system knocked out power to as many
as 6.69 million people in 13 states and the  District of
Columbia , according to U.S. Energy Department estimates.  Utilities have made quick work in whittling down power
losses by repairing high-voltage systems that serve tens of
thousands, Cordaro said. Progress will slow now as repair crews
tackle more isolated problems that affect fewer customers, he
said. Last in line will be streets with only a few homes, or
individual residences.  ‘Pretty Scary’  “I am frustrated,” said Adrienne Hutt, 65, who’s been
without power at her hilltop home in Old Saybrook, Connecticut,
since a fallen tree knocked a utility pole and transformer
across her driveway on Aug. 28. “I think what’s causing the
frustration is, it’s really pretty scary.”  Connecticut had the most customers without power, 258,470
as of 8 a.m. local time, according to the Energy Department.
Power in parts of Newtown, in the state’s southwest, won’t be
restored until Sept. 7, Connecticut Light & Power said on its
 website.   “The issue in Connecticut right now is power. Power,
power, power,” Governor Dannel Malloy, a Democrat, said at a
press conference yesterday after touring damaged areas. “It is
on everybody’s mind who is without it.”  Malloy declined to criticize the utilities’ response,
saying regulatory review may come later.  Power lines  are tangled
in downed trees from one end of the state to the other,
requiring joint work by tree trimmers and power crews, he said.  Customer ‘Hardship’  “Usually when you have an outage due to a storm, it’s an
inconvenience,” James P. Torgerson, chief executive officer of
 New Haven , Connecticut-based utility owner UIL Holdings, said at
the press conference. “This has gone to where it’s a hardship
for many customers.”  In Vermont, about 1 percent of customers lack power,
according to the department’s report. “Complete restoration
remains dependent on road access and could take weeks for
customers who are still isolated,” Central Vermont Public
Service said in a  statement  yesterday.  “A lot of people have 48 hours of patience,”  Maryland 
Governor Martin O’Malley told reporters yesterday in Annapolis.
“That 48 hours is up. People are getting understandably
prickly.”  About 88,000 customers lack power in Maryland, down from a
peak of 807,445, according to today’s report. Power system
damage in the Baltimore area was the worst since Hurricane
Isabel in 2003, with more than 80 percent of customers blacked
out at one point,  Constellation Energy Group Inc. (CEG) ’s utility said
in an e-mailed statement.  ‘We’re Frustrated’  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM) , owner of utilities in the District of
Columbia, its Maryland suburbs and the eastern shore of the
Chesapeake Bay, was “really quick” at restoring power,
Maryland’s O’Malley said. He and other public officials had
criticized Pepco for  moving too slowly  and not keeping customers
informed about when they’d have power back after Hurricane
Isabel.  In  New Jersey , about 2 percent of customers remain without
power today, according to the department’s report.  “People are frustrated,” said Don Weyant, regulatory
officer for  Newark , New Jersey-based  Public Service Enterprise
Group Inc. (PEG) ’s utility. “We’re frustrated.”  Of 15,000 utility customers still without power, 5,700 are
out because of flooding, the company said in a  statement  today.  “There’s a multitude of problems out there, even getting
around with the flooding and the debris,” Weyant said in an
interview yesterday.  Slow to Survey  Public Service, New York’s  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  and
 FirstEnergy Corp. (FE) ’s Jersey Central Power & Light have executed
repairs quickly and methodically, Cordaro said. State-owned Long
Island Power Authority and National Grid Plc, which manages its
power lines, haven’t, said Cordaro, who sits on a committee with
oversight of the utility.  “They were slow to survey the damage and develop a plan of
attack,” Cordaro said. “They brought in crews before the storm
hit, and that’s a grandstand play.” The result was idle crews
while the utility surveyed damage, he said.  Long Island Power’s response has been “systematic,” Chief
Operating Officer Michael Hervey said during a press conference
yesterday at the authority headquarters in Hicksville, New York.  In Fairfield,  Connecticut , Ken O’Toole, 48, watched as a
tree blew over in the storm, tearing out the electric line and
meter on his home. His neighbors have their power back now,
while O’Toole, who stocked up on water, batteries and candles
before Irene hit, waits with his increasingly restless 10-year-
old daughter.  “She thinks I’m just going to snap my fingers and turn the
power back on,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
 Mike Lee  in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  