-- 
A Romantic Guide to 2012 Republican Suitors: Margaret Carlson

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T00:02:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/a-romantic-guide-to-2012-republican-suitors-margaret-carlson.html
The  Republican Party  has been speed
dating, racing through presidential prospects like a Hollywood
starlet working her way through leading men. The fickleness
suggests a party that doesn’t know whether its Tea Party heart
or its establishment head should prevail in 2012.  Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney was next in line,
which is usually the right place to be in a Republican
nomination contest. He checks some important boxes -- successful
businessman, former governor -- and his conversion to
conservative positions occurred far enough in the past that the
phrase “flip-flop” no longer shows up in every story about him.
He’s against health-care reform, though still dogged by the fact
that he once was for it.  Trouble is, the base just can’t fall in love with the guy.
To many evangelicals, the Mormon Romney belongs to a religious
cult. To others, he’s a stiff -- and his open collar and un-
gelled hair, newly responsive to the wind, don’t camouflage that
fact. Romney has the demeanor of someone for whom every date is
the first, occasioning stilted conversation and a desire to
please. Eager to fit in, he’ll impulsively call your father
“Dad” way before it’s appropriate.  No Passing Fancy  The party’s reluctance to embrace its putative front-runner
has provided plenty of opportunity for political infatuation.
The latest heartthrob is Texas Governor  Rick Perry . A week after
entering the race, Perry shot to a 29-to-17 lead over Romney in
the  Gallup Poll . Perry’s being treated by George Will, William Kristol and other prominent conservatives as if he’s more than a
passing fancy. Yet evidence from the past six months suggests
that Republican love burns brightly and fades quickly.  There was that spring fling with  Donald Trump , for example.
After he riled a crowd of conservative activists in Washington
in February, the Manhattan huckster with an ego the size of the
 Taj Mahal  (Las Vegas version) was eagerly embraced by the
Republican base. Trump required more flip-flops than Romney to
win them over -- suddenly finding God and guns while forsaking
abortion rights and President  Barack Obama , whose American birth
he came to doubt publicly. By April, Trump was in first place in
a Public Policy Polling  survey , clocking in at 26 percent to
Romney’s 15 percent.  Trump was a distant memory by the time Minnesota
Representative  Michele Bachmann  burst on the scene. While Sarah Palin played hard to get, Bachmann jumped into the race with
both heels, winning plaudits for her performance at a New
Hampshire debate. Feisty, pretty, happy to let the U.S. default
on its debt, she  climbed  from 6 percent to 14 percent in a
month. By Aug. 13, the party activists who flock to the  Iowa
Straw Poll  were sufficiently in love to give Bachmann a winning
29 percent of the vote in an eight-candidate field, knocking out
Bachmann’s home-state competition, former Minnesota Governor
 Tim Pawlenty .  Bachmann Upstaged  Now Bachmann looks like a summer romance. Yesterday’s
sweetheart can barely turn a Republican head, even with a
promise of $2-per-gallon gasoline. At the Black Hawk County
Republican dinner, held in Bachmann’s birthplace, Waterloo,
 Iowa , on Aug. 14, Perry upstaged her. While Bachmann was
cocooned outside in a rock-star bus, her staff was inside
adjusting the lighting to suit her cable-TV standards. Perry,
meanwhile, worked every table, hugged every woman, slapped every
back. After that, he still found time to clean his plate and her
clock.  Perry out-Bachmanned Bachmann. He’s so big, so craggy, so
Texas; he doesn’t just like guns, he packs heat. (He reportedly
killed a coyote while jogging, though the details are sketchy.)  If Bachmann plays to the base, Perry channels it. He
wouldn’t just vote against raising the debt ceiling, as she did.
He threatens bodily harm to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and
calls him “almost treasonous.” He is as radical as Bachmann,
calling climate change a “hoax” and Social Security a “ Ponzi
scheme .” When he calls the nation’s capital a “seedy place,” he
manages to sound folksy.  Not Morman  Is Perry another one-night stand? He’s a step closer to
what the party needs -- a candidate who can excite the base
(which powered the Republican win in the 2010 midterm election)
without scaring the horses. His mix of executive experience,
pro-business absolutism and public Christianity (translation:
he’s not a Mormon) has mostly quieted Republican pleas for a
white knight. An  Associated Press-GfK  poll released last week
found that about two-thirds of Republicans and Republican-
leaning independents are now pleased with the party’s
presidential field, compared with just half in June.  There are aspects of Perry’s record that don’t rock the
Republican base. He’s insufficiently agitated by homosexuality
and, having built his career in a state that is more than one-
third Hispanic, he’s downright soft on immigration. Romney fired
an Anglo shot across Perry’s bow last week, pointing out that as
Massachusetts governor he had vetoed legislation allowing
children of illegal immigrants to attend college at in-state
tuition rates. Perry had supported similar legislation in  Texas .  As for the so-called Texas jobs miracle, Romney boasts that
he has actually created jobs, unlike some unnamed competitor who
has just “watched” them being created. For the rougher stuff,
including Perry openly rewarding his campaign donors with state
appointments and contracts, Romney’s probably hoping Bachmann
will do the dirty work.  Romney would be grateful for a bruising fight between Perry
and Bachmann, as long as the Texas governor doesn’t make a tidy
lunch of Romney after polishing off Bachmann for breakfast.
Romney’s best hope is that the dashing cowboy proves himself too
conservative for the party to bet on in the general election. In
that case, Republicans will have to tear themselves away from
the one they love, and settle for the one who can win.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson in  Washington  at 
 mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 