-- 
A Tax Reform to Kick-Start the Economy: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-08-31T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/a-tax-reform-to-kick-start-the-economy-laurence-kotlikoff.html
Our economy desperately needs a
swift kick in the pants, one that delivers millions of jobs and
extra  tax revenue . A sweeping, pro-growth  tax reform , which I
call the  Purple Tax Plan , is the ticket. It would boost
government coffers by 20 percent over time and make both red
Republicans and blue Democrats happy.  The plan does four things. First, it makes the regressive
 payroll tax  progressive. Instead of taxing workers and their
employers at a combined 15.3 percent rate up to $106,800 and at
a combined 2.9 percent above the ceiling, the plan levies the
employee half of the tax only on earnings above $40,000 and
eliminates the ceiling. This is something the Democrats can crow
about.  Second, the reform replaces our byzantine and horribly
wasteful personal income tax with a simple federal  sales tax .
The levy covers retail purchases plus consumption services (what
economists call imputed rent) that we enjoy from our homes,
boats, cars, planes and other major durables. It also taxes all
consumption done abroad.  To make the sales tax progressive, the plan provides a
monthly payment to every household based on its size. This so-
called demogrant is large enough to ensure the poor pay no net
sales tax, while the rich pay a lot. Democrats should like this
feature, too.  Republicans can correctly claim they have slashed tax
rates. The sales tax rate would be 17.5 percent -- well below
that foreseen in the  FairTax , a separate reform plan that has
gained a large following. On every dollar spent, 15 cents goes
for taxes and 85 cents for consumption, since 15 cents is a 17.5
percent markup on 85 cents.  Hence, whether the dollar comes from earnings or wealth,
it’s effectively taxed at 15 percent. That’s much lower than the
top four personal-income tax brackets. The Democrats can
champion this “ tax cut ,” too, since the sales levy effectively
taxes wealth, thus hitting the rich harder than just taxing
income from wealth.  Both parties can cheer Provision 3 -- switching our
dysfunctional and easily evaded estate and gift taxes to a 15
percent levy on all inheritances and gifts received above $1
million.  They can also support eliminating the corporate income tax
- the plan’s remaining provision. A zero corporate tax will make
the U.S. an investment haven, giving it a shot at experiencing
what Ireland enjoyed after it dramatically cut its company rate:
a major influx of investment and faster growth in jobs and
wages.  Mobile Investors  The corporate tax falls primarily on immobile workers, not
mobile investors. Boost the rate, and corporations leave, but
workers stay and suffer. This is why the machinists’ union wants
to force Boeing Co. to build the 787 Dreamliner in its unionized
Washington State plants.  To better understand who is hurt and helped, consider
Jamie, an investment banker with $1 billion in assets and $50
million in income, half of which is labor earnings. Under the
reform, Jamie’s payroll taxes rise by $3 million.  But the 15 percent effective sales tax is lower than the 17
percent income tax Jamie now faces, assuming her average rate is
the same as  Warren Buffett ’s. Saving 2 percentage points means
Jamie’s total taxes on her $50 million income rise by $2
million, not $3 million.  This, by itself, represents an almost 25 percent tax
increase. But there’s a big kicker:  Jamie is also hit with an
immediate 15 percent tax on her wealth. The day the tax is
implemented, prices will rise 17.5 percent and the purchasing
power of Jamie’s wealth will fall by 15 percent, or $150
million.  True, Jamie can decide when to physically hand over the
 wealth tax . She can give the government the $150 million by
spending all $1 billion now. Alternately, Jamie or her heirs can
pay the tax with interest by spending the $1 billion plus any
earnings on it later. Either way, in present-value terms, she’s
out $150 million on Day 1.  Sam the Janitor  What about Sam, the janitor, who earns $20,000 and is
penniless? The plan cuts his federal taxes by 20 percent, given
all its provisions.  Rich Jamie’s taxes skyrocket and poor Sam’s drop -- a blue
fantasy wrapped in red paper.  The plan also improves work and saving incentives. Jamie
pays an average income tax of 17 percent, but about 40 percent
on extra labor earnings. Under the reform, her marginal rate
drops to 30 percent. Sam’s marginal rate on earnings falls, too,
from 25 percent to 22 percent.  Under the current tax system, both Jamie and Sam lose about
20 cents on the dollar if they defer consumption -- that is, if
they save instead of spend. Under the reform plan, they lose
nothing. It would incentivize them and all other Americans to
save and join foreigners in investing on a corporate-tax-free
basis in our country. Growth and jobs would follow.  The reform eliminates almost all filing by households, an
enormous time sink, and requires business to collect only
payroll and sales taxes. Our army of tax professionals can
switch to productive work.  By setting all tax rates effectively at 15 percent, the
plan provides a check on over-spending by the government.
Everyone will know that if Congress spends more on anyone or
anything, this single rate will rise. This makes it politically
tougher for politicians to spend.  Tax reform can be win-win. Hopefully, the Congressional
supercommittee, charged with reducing the federal  budget deficit 
by $1.5 trillion over the next 10 years, will make it happen.  ( Laurence J. Kotlikoff , a professor of economics at  Boston
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
 Laurence Kotlikoff  at  kotlikoff@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mark Whitehouse at 
 mwhitehouse1@bloomberg.net . 