-- 
Madoff Trustee to Dismiss Some Claims Against Maxam Capital Management

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 
2011-08-31T14:46:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/madoff-trustee-to-dismiss-some-claims-against-maxam-capital-management.html
Irving Picard , the trustee
liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s money-management firm, said he
will dismiss common-law claims against Maxam Capital Management
LLC and its founder Sandra Manzke.  Picard sued Maxam, some of its funds and Manzke in
December, demanding return of so-called fraudulent transfers out
of the  Ponzi scheme  and accusing them of unjust enrichment and
constructive trust. Maxam got the case removed to district
court, where it asked Judge Jed Rakoff to dismiss the common-law
claims, basing its request on the judge’s July ruling that threw
out almost $9 billion in damages Picard demanded from  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and feeder funds using common claims.  “The parties wish to avoid the expense and time of
additional resources in connection with defendants’ motion to
dismiss the common law claims,” Picard said in a filing in U.S.
District Court in  Manhattan  yesterday.  Picard sought $100 million in transfers from Maxam, plus
$5.8 million in fees from Manzke, in addition to her $1.8
million Pound Ridge, New York house and $500,000 she took out of
the Maxam fund in 2008. Picard said the bankruptcy-law claims
would remain.  The common-law claims may be renewed if another court
“determines that the trustee is permitted to advance common law
claims,” Picard said.  A constructive trust would transfer assets back to the
Madoff estate, according to Picard’s lawsuit.  Picard last week appealed Rakoff’s ruling on the HSBC
claims.  The case is Picard v. Maxam, 11-cv-03261, U.S. District
Court, Southern District (Manhattan.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 