-- 
African Rainbow Climbs Most in Nine Months in Johannesburg on Profit Jump

-- B y   J a n a   M a r a i s
-- 
2011-08-31T15:35:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/african-rainbow-targeting-1-4-billion-of-capital-expenditure-by-june-2014.html
African Rainbow Minerals Ltd. (ARI) , a
diversified South African mining company, rose the most in nine
months in Johannesburg trading after reporting an 83 percent
increase in fiscal full-year profit on higher metals prices.  African Rainbow advanced 5.3 percent to 189.95 rand by the
market’s 5 p.m. close, the biggest increase since Dec. 2. Net
income for the 12 months ended June climbed to 3.3 billion rand
($470 million), from 1.8 billion rand, the Johannesburg-based
company said in a statement today. The annual dividend increased
to 4.50 rand a share from 2 rand.  Billionaire founder and Chairman Patrice Motsepe’s company
plans capital spending of more than 10 billion rand in the three
years to June 2014 to take advantage of demand for commodities.
African Rainbow mines coal in partnership with Xstrata Plc,
platinum group metals with Anglo American Platinum Ltd. and
Impala Platinum Ltd., and nickel with MCC Norilsk Nickel OJSC.  It holds a 14.8 percent stake in Harmony Gold Mining Co.  “In the short term there may be challenges, but in the
long term we are confident that there is good demand and good
markets for our commodities,” Motsepe said on a conference
call.  The company’s ferrous division, which includes  iron ore ,
chrome and manganese assets mined with Assore Ltd., made up 2.9
billion rand of so-called headline earnings, more than double
the figure a year earlier. Iron ore prices more than doubled,
chrome ore climbed 56 percent and manganese ore 23 percent.  Coega Manganese Exports  Manganese producers and state-owned rail company Transnet
SOC Ltd. plan to complete a study on a line to transport the
metal to the port of Coega in Eastern Cape province by the year-
end, Jan Steenkamp, chief executive officer of the ferrous unit,
said during a presentation today. They will compare the proposal
with a plan to expand the current line from Sishen to Saldanha.  African Rainbow is ready to help fund a line if the company
gains a management role and wins preferential tariffs in the
long term, CEO André Wilkens said on the conference call.  The company is “aggressively” seeking ore bodies it can
develop after expanding current operations, including doubling
capacity at its Modikwa platinum mine, owned in partnership with
Anglo American Platinum, and building iron ore production to 16
million tons from 10 million at Khumani, Wilkens said.  Almost $321 million of contracts, or about 82 percent of
the authorized spending of $391 million, have been agreed for
the Konkola North copper project African Rainbow is developing
with Vale SA in Zambia, the South African company said. The site
is on schedule to produce its first copper in December 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Marais in Johannesburg at 
 jmarais@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  