-- 
Algeria, Forgotten by Arab Spring, May Rue Taking Qaddafi Family

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T04:08:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/algeria-may-regret-act-of-aggression-offering-refuge-to-qaddafi-s-family.html
Algeria ’s harboring of the family of
at-large Libyan autocrat  Muammar Qaddafi  risks bringing scrutiny
to the former French colony that’s so far been unaffected by the
Arab Spring.  Qaddafi’s wife, Safia, daughter Aisha and two sons,
Hannibal and Mohammed, with their wives and children, crossed
the border from  Libya  into Algeria on Aug. 29, where they were
granted exile. The Libyan rebels said the Algerian government
committed “an act of aggression” and demanded their return.  While Algeria saw some protests at the start of the year,
the uprising was suppressed and petered out after the government
ended the 19-year-old state of emergency in February. The act of
taking the closest relatives of an increasingly isolated
dictator could spark a fresh wave of discontent at a delicate
time for a country battling record-high food prices and waiting
on its government to announce oft-promised reforms.  “This shows Algeria supports the Qaddafi regime and will
widen the rift between the Algerian regime and the people, which
is already at an explosive level,” Jeremy Keenan, an Algeria
expert at the School of Oriental and  African Studies  in  London ,
said in an interview. “Algeria has been unbelievably foolish.”  The Algerian government has allowed mercenaries, fuel and
weapons to come into Libya over the past six months, said Guma
Al Gumaty, the rebel’s U.K. coordinator. “It is very unwise to
be working against Libyan people’s interest. They should be
looking toward the future.”  Like  Zimbabwe   Algeria is one of a handful of African states not to have
recognized the rebel’s National Transitional Council as Libya’s
de facto government. Another is Zimbabwe, which this week said
it’s recalling its diplomats from Tripoli because it won’t
confer legitimacy to the group.  As a signatory to the Rome Treaty that set up the
 International Criminal Court , the Algerian authorities would be
obliged to hand over Qaddafi should he cross the border. Qaddafi
himself is wanted for crimes against humanity. The Libyan
leader’s location is still unknown almost a week after he lost
control of the capital Tripoli.  Algeria’s actions have alarmed Western powers too. The U.S.
is concerned that the Qaddafi family’s travel across the border
“isn’t in keeping with travel ban restrictions” under United
Nations resolutions, State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland told reporters in Washington.  Still, Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika’s government
denies helping the Libyan regime and says Qaddafi’s kin were
allowed safe passage “on humanitarian grounds.” The Algerian
Health Ministry on Aug. 30 said Aisha Qaddafi gave birth to a baby
girl in Algeria.  Police Suppression  At home, the ninth president of Algeria since  France ’s 132-
year colonial rule in Algeria ended in 1962 moved swiftly to
quash signs of unrest with a brutality matching that of Qaddafi
in Libya or President Bashar Al-Assad in  Syria , according to
Alessandro Politi, a former adviser to the Italian Defense
Ministry. Unlike either of those leaders, he was successful.  Bouteflika used police repression and amnesties to Islamic
guerrillas to bring the civil war that killed an estimated
200,000 people in the 1990s under control. He was elected in
1999 when he  ran unopposed  and in April 2009, he won a third
five-year term, receiving 90 percent of the vote.  When opposition members staged peaceful protests in Algeria
in February, the government sent a 10-to-1 ratio “of police
into the streets to suppress them,” said James D. Le Sueur, a
 Libya expert  at the University of  Nebraska , and author of
‘Algeria since 1989: Between Democracy and Terror.’  Algeria’s secret service is more powerful than those found
in other Arab regimes and more effective, he said.  1990s Ghosts  The violence of the 1990s may work in the Algerian
government’s favor “because civilians have had enough of it and
don’t want to return to that,” Le Sueur said.  Half of Algeria’s population is under the age of 27, giving
rise to the Independent Youth Movement for Change that briefly
drew inspiration from the movements that swept away  Tunisia ’s
President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in January and  Egypt ’s
President  Hosni Mubarak  the following month.  Some of Bouteflika's reforms were announced after the state
of emergency was lifted -- a concession to protesters. He said
his government would review the election law, appoint a panel to
review the constitution, give more authority to provincial
councils, and provide more jobs for youths.  Eid Test  Every year at the end of Eid, the Muslim holiday that marks
the end of Ramadan, the Algerian government is confronted with
annual strikes. Starting on Sept. 11, this year’s protests may
test the government’s stability more than in previous years.  With a population of 36 million, Algeria is the world’s
fourth-largest exporter of natural gas and possesses the 15th
largest oil reserves, according to the U.S. Central Intelligence
Agency. Oil reserves in Libya are the largest in  Africa , making
Algeria’s decision to alienate the new leaders of its richer
neighbor and prospective trade partner all the more baffling,
Keenan said.  “If Algeria was really smart, it would hand these people
over to the NTC, which would trump their card and it would be a
win-win situation,” Keenan said. “But Algeria is better at
making enemies than friends.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  Washington  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Alexander in London at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  