-- 
ANC Adjourns Malema’s Hearings as Clashes in Central Johannesburg Subside

-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n
-- 
2011-08-31T16:22:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/anc-s-malema-hearings-to-resume-in-central-johannesburg-after-protests.html
South Africa ’s ruling  African
National Congress  spent a second day weighing whether to
discipline  Julius Malema , leader of its youth wing, for
undermining the party, while his supporters refrained from
violent protests that rocked central Johannesburg yesterday.  The ANC Youth League angered party elders with demands for
the seizure of mines and banks and criticism of government
policy. On Aug. 19, Malema and spokesman Floyd Shivambu were
ordered to appear before a disciplinary panel after they called
for the overthrow of Botswana’s government. Malema’s hearing was
adjourned today until Sept. 2, the Johannesburg-based South
African Press Association cited Shivambu as saying. The hearing
for Shivambu, which was due to take place today was postponed as
was the Sept. 1 hearing for four other leaders of the wing, the
 news agency  said.  The ANC rescinded a decision today to move the hearings
from its Luthuli House headquarters in central Johannesburg to
an undisclosed venue after hundreds of youths pelted police with
stones and bottles yesterday. The violence was condemned by the
ANC, its military veterans wing and its trade union allies.  “I think Malema’s position has been weakened by these
actions of some of his supporters,” Daniel Silke, a Cape Town-
based independent political analyst who has advised Telkom South
Africa Ltd. and  Sanlam Ltd. (SLM)  according to his website, said by
phone. “This has served to increase his isolation. It might be
easier for the ANC to take much sterner and stronger action
against him.”  Dozens of riot police patrolled the streets of Johannesburg
today and no incidents of violence were reported. Yesterday, a
policeman was hospitalized after being hit on the head by a
projectile.  Leadership Battle  With the ANC due to elect its new leadership at its
centenary conference in December next year, the hearings will be
a key test of President  Jacob Zuma ’s authority and may determine
whether he wins a second term. The league in the ANC, helped
Zuma oust  Thabo Mbeki  as party leader in 2007.  The disciplinary committee is chaired by Derek Hanekom, the
deputy minister of science and technology, and includes Mines
Minister Susan Shabangu. Malema criticized Shabangu after she
said in February 2010 that nationalization of mines won’t happen
“in my lifetime,” while he rebuked Hanekom in June for
rejecting the league’s call to seize land from whites without
compensation.  Failed Bid  Malema’s lawyers tried unsuccessfully to get Hanekom,
Shabangu and Collins Chabane, a minister in the presidency, to
recuse themselves from the hearings on the grounds that they
were biased against him, the Cape Town-based Cape Times
newspaper reported.  It isn’t yet known when the committee will deliver its
verdict, ANC spokesman Brian Sokutu said by telephone from
Johannesburg.  The hearings are “a show of power by Zuma and the current
ANC leadership,” Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomura
Plc in  London , said in e-mailed comments. Unless Malema is
thrown out of the party, which is unlikely, he will be in a
strong position to influence the outcome of next year’s elective
conference, he said.  The ANC has ruled South Africa since all-race elections in
1994 and controls almost two-thirds of the seats in Parliament.  ‘A Liability’  Malema was forced to apologize and pay a fine after
admitting in May last year to violating party rules by dividing
the ANC and undermining Zuma’s authority. He was warned that he
could be suspended if found guilty of breaching its codes again
within two years.  “The leadership simply don’t need to be intimidated by
Malema any more,” Silke said. “Malema is now a liability. No
other organizational structure within the ANC that has leapt to
his defense. In a battle between Malema and Zuma, Zuma will
win.”  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index rose 2.1 percent to
31,005.5 in Johannesburg today, while the rand gained 1.1
percent to 7.0072 per dollar by 5:59 p.m.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in Cape Town Nef at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  