-- 
Handbags Beat Loans as Hermes Overtakes Societe Generale: Chart of the Day

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-08-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/handbags-beat-loans-as-hermes-overtakes-socgen-chart-of-the-day.html
If only French banks had the allure
of a Parisian maker of $8,000 handbags.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows how  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA,
maker of Birkin bags and the best performer this year in
 France ’s SBF-120 Index, has overtaken  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA, the
country’s second-biggest bank, by market value. While lenders
struggle with  Europe ’s debt crisis, Chinese consumers are buying
high-end  consumer goods  and LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA
is acquiring as many Hermes shares as it can find.  Hermes’s market value is 55 percent greater than Societe
Generale’s, even though it has 5 percent of the staff and 8
percent of the revenue of the lender, according to Bloomberg
data. Investors are paying 54 times reported earnings for Hermes
compared with 5 times for Societe Generale.  “Hermes market cap is valuing each and every one of its
very competent staff at a mere 3.3 million euros ($4.8 million)
per head as it is indeed extremely demanding to turn 700 odd
bits of leather into a useful bag,” said Pierre-Yves Gauthier,
head of research at Alphavalue SAS in Paris. “SocGen employees
have a history of breaking the bank so they are worth only about
110,000.”  Each Hermes employee is valued at 30 times every one at
Societe Generale, the Paris-based bank that in January 2008
accused one of its traders,  Jerome Kerviel , of causing a 4.9
billion-euro trading loss.  Hermes has rallied 70 percent this year as LVMH increased
its stake in a company whose freely traded shares are likely to
be as low as 6 percent of issued stock, according to Oddo
Securities. Societe Generale has plunged 42 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  