-- 
Anglo Irish Sues Former CEO Drumm Over Fraud Claims on Loans From Company

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-31T22:14:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/anglo-irish-sues-former-ceo-drumm-over-fraud-claims-on-loans-from-company.html
Anglo Irish  Bank Corp. sued former
Chief Executive Officer David K. Drumm to prevent him from using
U.S. bankruptcy laws to avoid repaying a 7.65 million euro ($11
million) loan that the bank claims was tainted by fraud.  Anglo Irish filed the complaint today in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Boston, where Drumm’s personal bankruptcy case is being
heard. The bank said Drumm wrongly converted loans worth 18.5
million euros to himself and other Anglo Irish directors into
so-called non-recourse loans to avoid personal liability for the
debt.  Anglo Irish made the loans to Drumm and other directors in
late 2007 and early 2008 so they could buy stock in the bank,
according to the complaint. The company’s goal was to boost
investor confidence by showing that directors were putting their
own wealth at stake.  Drumm didn’t allow any documentation for the loans to be
drawn up until about nine months later, after Anglo Irish’s
stock plunged. When the loans were documented, they were
classified as non-recourse debts whose repayment was only
guaranteed by the stock, according to the complaint.  Drumm’s “concealment and fraudulent acts were a desperate
attempt to avoid serious financial risk to himself, the other
directors and the favored investors arising from AIBC’s sharply
declining share value at a time when the bank’s very survival
was rife with doubt,” Anglo Irish attorneys said in court
papers.  Pamela A. Harbeson, Drumm’s attorney, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Exit Plan  The bank asked U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Frank J. Bailey to
deny Drumm’s request to discharge the debt as part of his plan
to exit bankruptcy.  Anglo Irish has sued Drumm in Dublin, where the bank is
based, accusing him of not paying back about 8 million euros in
loans. After Drumm and the bank failed to settle the dispute, he
filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in  Boston  in October, listing
debt of $14.2 million and assets of $13.9 million. Chapter 7 is
used by companies and individuals to liquidate their assets
under the supervision of a court-appointed trustee and turn over
the proceeds to creditors.  The case is Anglo Irish Bank Corp. v. Drumm, 11-01266, and
the main bankruptcy case is In re David K. Drumm, 10-21198, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of  Massachusetts  (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  