-- 
Announced U.S. Job Cuts Rose 47% in August From Year Ago, Challenger Says

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-08-31T11:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/announced-u-s-job-cuts-rose-47-in-august-from-year-ago-challenger-says.html
Employers in the U.S. announced more
job cuts in August than a year ago, signaling little progress in
the labor market more than two years after the recession ended.  Planned firings climbed 47 percent from August 2010 to
51,114, according to figures released today by Chicago-based
Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc. The announcements were led by
reductions at government agencies and in the financial industry.  Job cuts in federal, state and local governments are
another restraint on  consumer spending  that accounts for about
70 percent of the economy. Job growth this month probably fell
shy of the gain needed to reduce the unemployment rate,
according to a Bloomberg News survey before a Sept. 2 report.  “The private sector once again took a backseat to the
government sector, which saw job cuts surge to the second-
highest monthly total this year,” John A. Challenger, chief
executive officer of Challenger, Gray & Christmas, said in a
statement. “More workforce reductions at the federal level are
undoubtedly coming down the road. Congress and the White House
are under immense pressure to cut federal budgets.”  Compared with July, job-cut announcements decreased 23
percent. Because the figures aren’t adjusted for seasonal
effects, economists prefer to focus on year-over-year changes
rather than monthly numbers.  Government agencies led the August firings with 18,426 job-
cut announcements, followed by 8,094 in finance and 5,901 in the
retail industry.  Bank of America  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the biggest U.S. lender, will
eliminate about 3,500 jobs this quarter to focus “on what we
can control” amid financial-market turmoil following the first
U.S. credit downgrade in history, Chief Executive Officer  Brian
T. Moynihan  said on Aug. 19. “We owe it to our customers and
our shareholders to remain competitive, efficient and manage our
expenses carefully.”  The primary reason for announced job cuts was cost-cutting,
followed by restructuring and business closings.  Today’s report showed the  District of Columbia , home base
for federal agencies, led all states and jurisdictions with
17,500 announced job cuts.  North Carolina  followed with 5,938.  Hiring plans picked up in August from a month earlier, the
report showed. Employers announced intentions to add 15,201
workers, up from 14,075 in the same month last year and 10,706
in July.  Payrolls climbed by 75,000 workers in August after a
117,000 increase in July, a Labor Department report is projected
to show Sept. 2, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Economists project the  unemployment
rate  will hold at 9.1 percent.  Challenger’s data do not always correlate with figures on
payrolls or first-time jobless claims as reported by the
government. Many job cuts are carried out through attrition or
early retirement. Some employees whose job are eliminated find
work elsewhere in their companies and many announced staff
reductions never take place because business improves. The
totals also include foreign affiliates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  