-- 
Apple, RIM Targeted by Openwave in Mobile Device Patent Case

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-08-31T20:19:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/apple-rim-phones-tablets-targeted-by-openwave-in-patent-case.html
Openwave Systems Inc. (OPWV) , a maker of
software for mobile phones, filed patent-infringement complaints
against  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIMM) , seeking to block
U.S. imports of the companies’ phones and tablets.  Apple’s iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch, as well as RIM’s
BlackBerry Curve and Playbook, infringe five patents for ways
mobile devices connect to the Internet, Openwave said today. The
company filed cases with the U.S. International Trade Commission
in Washington and a federal court in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Openwave, which reported $38.9 million in revenue in the
fiscal quarter ended in March, said it took action after failing
to “receive a substantive response” to requests for a
licensing deal with Apple and RIM. The ITC can block imports of
products that infringe U.S. patents, and a favorable decision
“will lead the companies to negotiate licensing agreements,”
 Redwood City , California-based Openwave said in a statement.  “There are people in the world who deliver products into
the market that are leveraging our patented technology,”
Openwave Chief Executive Officer Ken Denman said in a telephone
interview. The inventions are “foundational to the mobile
Internet and we believe it’s only right we get paid for the use
of our foundational technology.”  Openwave climbed 44 cents, or 30 percent, to $1.91 at 4
p.m. New York time in Nasdaq Stock Market trading, its biggest
percentage increase since October 2002. Apple, the world’s
biggest maker of smartphones, fell $5.16 to $384.83. RIM fell 6
cents to $32.49.  Patent Licensing  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, and Marisa Conway, a spokeswoman for Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM, declined to comment on the litigation.  The complaint is part of a program started more than two
years ago to generate more money from the company’s intellectual
property and Openwave is in talks with other parties, Denman
said without naming the companies.  Openwave provides software to phone-service providers
including AT&T Inc. and Sprint Nextel Corp.,  Australia ’s Telstra
Corp., Deutsche Telekom AG and Taiwan Mobile Co. The company got
about 31 percent of its sales from licensing in the quarter
ended in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The patents in the complaints announced today cover ways to
let Web pages and applications communicate with a server, share
data across different devices, access updates to applications,
connect to e-mail without a network connection such as in a
“dead zone,” and for software on the phone to interact with
corresponding software on a server.  If the ITC agrees to investigate the complaint, the probe
would likely be completed in 15 to 18 months. The companion
civil suit in federal court would be put on hold until the ITC
completes its work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in  Washington  at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  