-- 
Marriott Says It’s Given Back Control of Waikiki Edition Hotel in Hawaii

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 
2011-08-31T19:14:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/marriott-says-it-s-given-back-control-of-waikiki-edition-hotel-in-hawaii.html
Marriott International Inc., the
largest publicly traded U.S. hotel chain, said it was given back
control of the  Waikiki Edition hotel  in  Hawaii , which the
property’s owner seized earlier this week.  A New York state judge ordered M Waikiki LLC, which took
over the hotel on Aug. 28, to return control to Marriott by 8:30
p.m. East Coast time today, Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott
said in a statement.  M Waikiki LLC took over management of the property after
filing a lawsuit on May 26 claiming the hotel “has been a
failure due to gross mismanagement and Marriott’s inability to
successfully launch the Edition brand,” according to a May 31
statement by Bickel & Brewer, the hotel owner’s law firm. M
Waikiki LLC’s management agreement with Marriott has 29 years
remaining, according to the operator.  “We took swift legal action following this event and are
gratified that a New York court ordered operational control and
management of the Waikiki Edition returned to us pursuant to our
contract,” Ed Ryan, Marriott’s general counsel, said in today’s
statement.  Travis Carter, a spokesman for Bickel & Brewer, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment on the order.  Disputes between hotel operators and property owners have
increased during the last two years, according to James Butler,
a partner at Los Angeles-based law firm  Jeffer Mangels Butler &
Mitchell LLP .  “The fundamental frustration of owners is that operators
aren’t bringing in bottom-line results,” Butler said in an Aug.
29 telephone interview. “When brands expanded in the last
years, many of them outstripped their resources and their talent
pool. It really increased the divide between owners and
operators.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  