-- 
AT&T Seeks Approval of T-Mobile Deal With Offer to Bring Home 5,000 Jobs

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T13:49:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/at-t-seeks-t-mobile-approval-with-offer-to-bring-home-5-000-jobs.html
AT&T Inc. (T) , seeking government
approval for its $39 billion acquisition of  T-Mobile USA  Inc.,
pledged to bring 5,000 call-center jobs back to the U.S. from
other countries once the deal closes.  The company, which would become the nation’s biggest
mobile-phone carrier after the acquisition, said today in a
statement that it wouldn’t cut any U.S. wireless call-center
jobs as a result of the purchase. The jobs plan doesn’t change
Dallas-based AT&T’s forecasts for savings from the deal, it
said.  AT&T is working to bolster its case as analysts become less
certain that the acquisition will be approved. A Stifel Nicolaus
& Co. survey of 32 polled observers published Aug. 11 found that
sentiment that the deal would win clearance had slipped since
early July, with fewer than half saying it would be approved.  “At a time when many Americans are struggling and our
economy faces significant challenges, we’re pleased that the T-
Mobile merger allows us to bring 5,000 jobs back to the  United
States  and significantly increase our investment here,” AT&T
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson said in
the statement.  The U.S. Federal Communications Commission gave itself more
time last month to review new data from AT&T, and lawmakers such
as Senator  Herb Kohl , a Wisconsin Democrat and chairman of the
Senate Judiciary subcommittee on antitrust matters, have
criticized the acquisition.  $7 Billion at Stake  Should regulators reject the transaction, AT&T would pay T-
Mobile USA’s parent,  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , $3 billion in cash. It
would also provide T-Mobile USA with wireless spectrum in some
regions and reduced charges for calls into AT&T’s network, for a
total package valued at as much as $7 billion, Deutsche Telekom
said this month.  The purchase would combine the second- and fourth-largest
mobile-phone carriers in the country, surpassing No. 1  Verizon
Wireless .  AT&T and Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile USA have a
combined 25,000 U.S. call-center workers for their wireless
services, said Ashley Zandy, a spokeswoman for AT&T. She
declined to say how many workers AT&T employs outside the U.S.  Deutsche Telekom rose 18 cents, or 1.9 percent, to 9.71
euros at 3:44 p.m. in  Frankfurt . AT&T climbed 24 cents to $29.86
at 9:44 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. Both
stocks are little changed this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  