-- 
AT&T May Lose $3 Billion Bet on Washington in T-Mobile Deal

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r
-- 
2011-08-31T18:52:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/at-t-may-lose-3-billion-bet-on-washington-as-t-mobile-deal-is-challenged.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  would lose a more than $3
billion bet, one of the biggest such wagers ever, if regulators
block the phone company’s purchase of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile USA.  The U.S. Justice Department today sued to quash the $39
billion takeover, the largest announced this year. AT&T, which
plans to fight the suit, agreed to pay Deutsche Telekom $3
billion in cash within three business days if the deal
collapses, according to a regulatory filing. The agreement also
requires AT&T to give up wireless spectrum.  AT&T, which would become the largest wireless carrier in
the U.S. through the deal, had offered to pay more than twice
the usual breakup fee on a percentage basis to sway Deutsche
Telekom. The Bonn-based carrier insisted on the fee because the
deal’s failure would mean more than a year lost in which it
could have sought other options for T-Mobile, Chief Financial
Officer Timotheus Hoettges said in March.  “It’s a huge amount of money to pay, effectively, for
nothing,” said Antony Page, a professor at Indiana University
School of Law in Indianapolis. “AT&T has every incentive, if
they go to court, to fight as hard as possible for this.”  The size of the fee weakens AT&T’s bargaining power with
the  Justice Department  because the government can demand more
onerous concessions than they otherwise would, he said.  Breakup Package  AT&T, based in  Dallas , also agreed to hand over airwaves in
110 markets and negotiate a roaming agreement with Deutsche
Telekom so T-Mobile can offer services in more areas, if the
transaction fell apart. Deutsche Telekom values that entire
breakup package, including the $3 billion cash amount, at as
much as $7 billion, Philipp Kornstaedt, a spokesman for the
German company, said this month.  Even without the transfer of assets and the roaming
agreement, the fee is 7.7 percent of the total purchase price,
about twice the typical amount. In more than 200 deals announced
from Jan. 1, 2010, to Aug. 15, the median fee was 3.8 percent of
the purchase price, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Among the largest in recent years was the $4.5 billion, or
7 percent, that  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  agreed in 2009 to pay Wyeth if the
 drug company  failed to obtain financing to complete a $68
billion takeover.  Google Inc. (GOOG)  agreed this month to pay $2.5
billion to Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. if competition
regulators block its $12.5 billion takeover offer, equal to 26
percent of the enterprise value of the deal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 