-- 
AT&T Antitrust Suit Draws Line in Sand That Will Affect Other U.S. Mergers

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 
2011-09-01T04:38:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/at-t-antitrust-suit-draws-line-in-sand-that-will-affect-other-u-s-mergers.html
The lawsuit seeking to block AT&T
Inc.’s takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc. shows a more aggressive
antitrust stance by the U.S.  Justice Department  that limits
prospects for other big telecommunications deals, antitrust
analysts said.  The suit, filed yesterday in  Washington  federal court,
seeks to derail the $39 billion T-Mobile deal, the biggest
acquisition announced this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The last transaction the Justice Department
challenged whose size even approached the AT&T bid was the 2003
$8.4 billion Oracle Corp.-PeopleSoft Inc. merger.  The T-Mobile deal is the biggest challenged by the Justice
Department since it sued in June 2000 to block WorldCom Inc.’s
proposed acquisition of Sprint Corp., a deal valued at
$152 billion when the companies called off the merger the
following month.  With yesterday’s filing, President  Barack Obama ’s Justice
Department departed from its strategy of approving large
acquisitions after adding conditions, as it did with Comcast
Corp.’s purchase of NBC Universal and Ticketmaster Entertainment
Inc.’s merger with Live Nation Inc. Previously, antitrust
authorities at the department “backed down,” said  Robert Lande , a University of Baltimore law  professor .  “They negotiated a compromise,” Lande said. “But this
one they said, ‘No, we cannot compromise, this is
anticompetitive.’”  ‘Anticompetitive’  AT&T intends to fight the litigation, Wayne Watts, the
Dallas-based company’s general counsel, said in a statement
yesterday. Bonn, Germany-based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , which owns
T-Mobile, also said it would contest the suit.  The Justice Department said in its complaint that a
combination of AT&T and Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile
would result in “higher prices, poorer quality services, fewer
choices and fewer innovative products” for consumers.  “Any way you look at this transaction, it is
anticompetitive,” Sharis Pozen, the acting head of the
department’s antitrust division, said at a news conference
yesterday.  That position will make it harder for companies to make a
case with regulators for large, complex mergers in the
telecommunications industry, said Henry Levine, a  partner  at
Washington-based  law firm  Levine, Blaszak, Block & Boothby LLP,
which represents large companies in telecommunications cases.  Line in Sand  “It’s a line in the sand,” he said. The suit signals
“you cannot buy one of the major players in the market,” he
said. A merger between No. 3 wireless carrier  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  and No. 4 T-Mobile might raise similar competition
concerns, Levine said. Still, the suit doesn’t signal the
Justice Department would oppose smaller acquisitions, he said.  The AT&T challenge isn’t a harbinger of the fate of
 Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX) ’s $29 billion offer for Medco Health
Solutions Inc., announced in July, said Marc Schildkraut, an
antitrust  lawyer  with Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP in Washington. That
transaction, which would create the biggest U.S. pharmacy-
benefits manager, is being reviewed by the Federal Trade
Commission, not the Justice Department.  “Medco is a very hard deal but I don’t think there’s a
relationship between the two,” he said. “It’s a totally
different deal and a total different agency.”  By buying T-Mobile, AT&T would displace  Verizon Wireless ,
which is owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and Vodafone Group
Plc, as the No. 1 U.S. wireless carrier. Sprint would remain the
third-largest. AT&T and T-Mobile compete head-to-head in 97 of
the nation’s top 100 mobile-phone marketing areas, according to
the Justice Department’s complaint.  ‘Significant Shift’  Previously, companies eased government concerns about
telecommunications mergers by agreeing to sell operations in the
local markets they dominated. With the Justice Department
adopting a national perspective, such remedies are less likely
to satisfy the government, said attorney Mark Ostrau, a  Mountain
View , California-based  partner  at Fenwick & West LLP.  “You can view this as a significant shift in attitude
toward telecom consolidation,” he said.  Pozen, the acting antitrust chief, said yesterday that the
“door is open” to discuss a remedy with AT&T. Barring a court
victory or a willingness to make major divestments, AT&T will
have difficulty getting the deal through, said Levine Blaszak’s
Levine.  Merger’s Prospects  “The bet at this point would be that the merger does not
go through,” he said.  U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle has been assigned
the case. In 2001, she rejected the department’s efforts to
block SunGard DataSystems Inc.’s acquisition of Comdisco Inc.’s
computer disaster-recovery business for $825 million. She said
the government failed to show the combined company’s relevant
market would be limited to services now offered by Comdisco,
SunGard and International Business Machines Corp.  The case of AT&T and T-Mobile case is one of the rare
instances in recent years where the Justice Department has
actively sought to block a merger either through a formal
lawsuit or an informal threat to sue. Other instances include
H&R Block Holdings Inc.’s bid for 2SS Holdings Inc. and Nasdaq
OMX Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s offer for
NYSE Euronext.  The department sued to keep software maker Oracle from
completing its purchase of PeopleSoft. A federal judge rejected
U.S. arguments that the deal would give  Redwood City ,
California-based Oracle power to raise software prices and harm
competition.  Comcast, NBC  AT&T may have been induced to believe it could win approval
of the T-Mobile takeover after the antitrust division let
Comcast purchase  NBC Universal  in January 2011 and allowed
Ticketmaster to merge with Live Nation in January 2010, said
Lloyd Constantine, an antitrust  lawyer  with New York-based
Constantine Cannon LLP.  Both transactions were approved with conditions designed to
preserve competition in their respective industries.  “The Comcast-NBC merger gave them the nerve to try this
one, and they found out that enforcement has not been relaxed
that much,” Constantine said.  AT&T campaigned to build support for the deal, getting
backing from the Communication Workers of America and agreeing
to bring back 5,000 call-center jobs to the U.S.  The lawsuit “does give the business community some sense
that not everything is negotiable and that there are limits to
what the Justice Department is willing to permit, even in an
economic downturn,” said Andrew Gavil, a professor who teaches
antitrust law at  Howard University  in Washington.  The case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  