-- 
AT&T Suit Follows Antitrust Tactics With Oracle, H&R Block

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-09-01T02:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/at-t-suit-follows-government-tactics-in-oracle-h-r-block-antitrust-cases.html
AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion
takeover of T-Mobile USA Inc. is one of the rare instances where
the U.S. Justice Department in recent years has actively sought
to block a merger through a lawsuit or an informal threat to
sue, based on antitrust grounds.  What follows are some examples of department efforts to
block acquisitions and their outcomes:  H&R Block/2SS Holdings Inc.: In May, the Justice Department
sued  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  to stop its proposed purchase of the owner
of TaxAct products, saying the companies’ merger would stifle
competition and raise prices in the growing market for consumer
tax-preparation software. The case is being litigated in U.S.
District Court in Washington.  Nasdaq OMX/NYSE Euronext: Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. withdrew their joint $11.3 billion
bid for NYSE Euronext on May 16 after the  Justice Department 
threatened a lawsuit. An acquisition “would have substantially
eliminated competition for corporate stock-listing services,
opening and closing stock auction services, off-exchange stock
trade reporting services and real-time proprietary equity data
products,” the department said.  Blue Cross Blue Shield of  Michigan /Physicians Health Plan
of Mid-Michigan: Blue Cross Blue Shield of Michigan’s Blue Care
Networks of Michigan abandoned its attempt to purchase
Physicians Health Plan of Mid-Michigan in 2010 after the Justice
Department told the companies that it would file an antitrust
lawsuit to block the acquisition. The department said in a press
release that the acquisition “would have given Blue Cross-
Michigan control of almost 90 percent of the commercial health
insurance market in the Lansing, Michigan, area, which would
have led to higher prices, fewer choices and a reduction in the
quality of commercial health insurance plans purchased by
Lansing area residents and their employers.”  Oracle/PeopleSoft: In 2004, the department sued to keep
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  from completing its $8.4 billion purchase of
PeopleSoft Inc. The acquisition went through after a U.S. judge
rejected the department’s arguments that the deal would give
Oracle power to raise software prices and harm competition.  SunGard Data Systems Inc./Comdisco Inc.: SunGard Data
Systems Inc. acquired Comdisco Inc.’s computer disaster-recovery
business in 2001 after a U.S. appeals court rebuffed a request
by the Justice Department to halt the $825 million transaction.
The trial judge who initially ruled against the department was
U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle, who is presiding over
the AT&T case. Huvelle ruled the government failed to show the
combined company’s relevant market would be limited to services
now offered by Comdisco, SunGard and International Business
Machines Corp.  WorldCom/Sprint: The Justice Department in June 2000 sued
to block WorldCom Inc.’s proposed buyout of Sprint Corp., saying
the combination would create too much concentration in markets
for long-distance, international and Internet backbone services.
The value of that deal when it was announced in October 1999 was
$110 billion. In July 2000 when the companies called off the
deal, it was valued at $152 billion.  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  