-- 
AT&T Joined by Deutsche Telekom to Contest U.S. Bid to Block T-Mobile Deal

-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-08-31T19:23:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/at-t-to-vigorously-contest-u-s-antitrust-action-to-block-t-mobile-deal.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) 
said they plan to contest the U.S. government’s effort to block
their $39 billion deal over  T-Mobile USA  Inc.  “We are surprised and disappointed by today’s action,
particularly since we have met repeatedly with the  Department of
Justice  and there was no indication from the DOJ that this
action was being contemplated,” Wayne Watts, Dallas-based
AT&T’s general counsel, said in a statement. “The DOJ has the
burden of proving alleged anti-competitive affects and we intend
to vigorously contest this matter in court.”  In a complaint filed today, the U.S. said the deal would
“substantially lessen competition” in the wireless market.
AT&T’s purchase of Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile USA from
Deutsche Telekom would combine the second- and fourth-largest
U.S. carriers to create a new market leader ahead of No. 1
 Verizon Wireless . The new company would have dwarfed current No.
3 carrier  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , which argued against the deal.  AT&T said it plans to ask for an expedited hearing so the
deal’s benefits can be fully reviewed. The takeover, announced
in March, would help reduce a wireless-spectrum crunch, result
in billions of dollars in investment and tens of thousands of
jobs, AT&T said.  Deutsche Telekom said it is “very disappointed by the DOJ’s
action, and will join AT&T in defending the contemplated merger
against the complaint in court.”  5,000 Jobs  Should regulators reject the transaction, AT&T would pay
Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom $3 billion in cash. It would also
provide T-Mobile USA with wireless spectrum in some regions and
reduced charges for calls into AT&T’s network, for a total
package valued at as much as $7 billion, Deutsche Telekom said
this month.  AT&T may still be able to close the merger, either by
fighting the  Justice Department  in court or by negotiating with
regulators. “Our door is open” if AT&T wants to address the
agency’s concerns about the deal, Sharis Pozen, acting chief of
the Justice Department’s antitrust division, told reporters at a
news conference.  AT&T had prepared to make concessions, including asset
sales, to win approval for the deal.  Michael Nelson , an analyst
at Mizuho Securities USA, estimated that AT&T would have to
divest 30 percent to 40 percent of T-Mobile USA’s spectrum and
subscribers nationwide.  ‘Significant Remedies’  “The probability for a successful deal has dropped because
they’ve made clear that AT&T needs to come up with significant
remedies,” said Heike Pauls, an analyst at Commerzbank AG in
 Frankfurt  who has a “buy” rating on Deutsche Telekom. “Whether
they’re within the tolerance zone has to be seen. The process
will in any case be longer than was thought.”  Earlier today, AT&T pledged to bring 5,000 call-center jobs
back to the U.S. from other countries once the deal closes. The
company also said that it wouldn’t cut any U.S. wireless call-
center jobs as a result of the purchase.  “We remain confident that this merger is in the best
interest of consumers and our country, and the facts will
prevail in court,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  