-- 
Latvia May Need More Budget Measures on AirBaltic, Premier Says

-- B y   A a r o n   E g l i t i s
-- 
2011-08-31T06:56:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/latvia-may-need-more-budget-measures-on-airbaltic-premier-says.html
Latvia  may need additional budget
measures next year should it decide to invest in AirBaltic AS
airline and should “populist” measures proposed by politicians
are passed, Prime Minister Valdis Dombrovskis said.  “If the state has to invest additional resources in
AirBaltic, then this also can affect the size of next year’s
budget consolidation,” he said today on Latvian Independent
Television program  900 Seconds . Some “populist decisions” made
ahead of next month’s parliamentary elections would also raise
the amount needed to lower the country’s deficit to 2.5 percent
of gross domestic product next year, he said.  Latvia aims to cut the deficit next year so it can qualify
for euro adoption two years later. The Baltic country is now
better prepared to face a possible deterioration of economy in
the EU as it cut deficit and no longer has an overheated economy
and a real estate bubble, Dombrovskis said.  “At the moment, we see that the tendency in Latvia’s
economy is positive,” Dombrovskis said. “We have to follow the
economic processes in the world and in the Europe Union and
adjust the size of the consolidation accordingly.”  The Baltic country’s economy has expanded faster than
expected, allowing the government to lower its estimate for
further budget measures needed in next year’s budget to as low
as 100 million lati ($203.7 million) from as much as 180 million
lati announced previously.  Latvia’s economy grew a preliminary 5.3 percent in the
second quarter, the fastest pace in 3 1/2 years as household
demand increased and exports and industrial production
recovered.  AirBaltic, the airline majority-owned by the Latvian state,
may need at least 60 million lati in recapitalization, its
supervisory council said after the company reported a loss of 34
million lati last year.  In order to buy out the minority shareholder and
recapitalize the company, the state may need to invest as much
as 170 million lati, Latvian newspaper  Diena  reported today,
without saying where it got the information.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Eglitis in Riga at 
 aeglitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  