-- 
Australian, N.Z. Dollars Poised for Monthly Drop on Signs Growth Slowing

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 
2011-08-31T06:45:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/australian-n-z-dollars-poised-for-monthly-decline-amid-growth-concerns.html
The Australian and  New Zealand 
currencies are headed for monthly declines against both the
dollar and the yen on signs the global economy is slowing.  The so-called Aussie was poised for a fourth month of
losses versus the yen and has lost 3.5 percent against the
dollar since it reached a record last month. New Zealand’s
currency is set for its first monthly drop in six months against
the greenback after a survey by ANZ National Bank Ltd. showed
business confidence declined in August.  “World growth is slowing and that is going to be an
overall drag on commodity currencies and equity markets,” said
 Tony Allen , global head of foreign-exchange trading in Sydney at
 Australia  & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd.  Australia’s dollar declined to 81.93 yen as of 4:24 p.m. in
Sydney from 81.98 yen in  New York  yesterday, headed for a 2.9
percent monthly drop. The currency fetched $1.0692 from $1.0683
yesterday. It reached a record $1.1081 on July 27.  New Zealand’s dollar was unchanged from yesterday at 65.46
yen and has lost 3.1 percent this month. It traded at 85.44 U.S.
cents from 85.31 yesterday and 87.93 on July 29.  N.Z. Business Confidence  A net 34.4 percent of companies surveyed in New Zealand
expect the economy will improve over the next 12 months, down
from 47.6 percent in July, according to the ANZ survey released
today. The net figure subtracts the number of pessimists from
the number of optimists.  The  New Zealand dollar  fell 1.9 percent in the past month
against nine developed nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. Australia’s currency
declined 1.8 percent.  If the New Zealand dollar “falls significantly from this
level, it certainly is a buying opportunity,” said Roland Randall, senior strategist for rates and foreign exchange in
Singapore at TD Securities Inc.  A report from the  Reserve Bank  of Australia today showed
private lending increased 0.2 percent in July from the previous
month, in line with the median estimate of 17 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Lending gained 2.7 percent from a
year earlier, the central bank said.  Federal Reserve Policy  Declines in the Australian and New Zealand dollar were
limited on prospects slowing jobs in the U.S. will increase
pressure on the  Federal Reserve  to add stimulus, spurring demand
for higher-yielding assets.  Companies in the U.S. probably added 100,000 workers to
payrolls in August, less than July’s 114,000, economists
predicted before data from ADP Employer Services today.  “Markets are still being held up by hopes that we are
going to see further policy stimulus from the Federal Reserve,”
said  Sue Trinh , a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of
 Canada . “It’s unlikely to see risk proxies pullback in a sharp
manner.”  Benchmark rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that currency
market moves will erase profits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net  