-- 
Australian Court Overturns Gillard Plan to Send Asylum Seekers to Malaysia

-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-08-31T09:44:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/australia-barred-from-sending-refugees-to-malaysia.html
Australia ’s top court ruled the
government can’t send illegal immigrants who arrive by boat to
Malaysia, in a setback to Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s refugee
policy.  The government’s plan doesn’t meet the necessary criteria
for dealing with refugees, including providing adequate
protection for asylum seekers under international or domestic
law, the High Court of Australia said in a unanimous ruling by
the seven-judge panel issued in Canberra today.  Gillard, rebuked by opposition leader  Tony Abbott  for
failing to stem the flow of boat people into the country, sought
to quell the criticism with the Malaysia agreement that she said
would “smash the business model of people smugglers.”
The court ruling comes as the prime minister, whose approval
rating slumped to 33 percent in a July poll, is trying to
implement an unpopular carbon tax.  “They should be provided with basic survival and dignity
rights including rights to property, work and access to a social
safety net,” the judges said, referring to the refugees. “They
should be provided with documentation and be given access to
national courts to enforce their rights.”  Under the agreement, signed July 25, Australia would send
800 asylum seekers to  Malaysia  and would accept 4,000 people
from that country who have been verified as legitimate refugees
by the  United Nations . Australia currently processes asylum
seekers at Christmas Island, between  Indonesia  and Australia’s
west coast.  Sending a Message  “All the Malaysian deal achieves is shifting Australia’s
international humanitarian obligations offshore,” the group
Asylum Seekers Christmas Island said in an Aug. 4  statement . The
group called the plan “ethically abhorrent, legally
questionable and practically unsustainable.”  Tengku Sariffuddin Tengku Ahmad, the press secretary of
Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, declined to comment on the
ruling when reached by phone.  "We need to digest the decision," he said. Government
offices are closed today for a holiday celebrating independence
from colonial British rule.  The Malaysian agreement is designed to send a message that
asylum seekers shouldn’t risk their lives in the hope of having
their claims processed in Australia, and instead will end up at
the back of the line in Malaysia, Gillard said prior to signing
the agreement last month.  Malaysia hosts about 90,000 refugees and asylum seekers,
and there are are  10.4 million  refugees in the world, according
to the  United Nations Refugee Agency .  Human Rights  Asylum seekers, the Australian Human Rights Commission and
non-governmental advocacy groups have said the proposed swap
violates Australia’s constitution and international agreements
on refugees and human rights.  In its decision, the  High Court  also barred the government
from expelling children under the age of 18 without the written
consent of the Minister of Immigration.  Sayed-Navab Shah, who sued the government to block his
deportation to Malaysia, broke Malaysian law by illegally
entering the country and as a result faces punishment that
includes six strokes of the cane, his lawyers said in documents
filed with the High Court.  Malaysia isn’t a party to the UN’s 1951 refugee convention
and doesn’t provide for protection of asylum seekers, according
to Shah’s filing.  The court said it wasn’t expressing an opinion about
whether Malaysia meets relevant human rights standards in
dealing with asylum seekers.  ‘Mad Max’  Michael Chaney, chairman of  National Australia Bank Ltd. (NAB) ,
and  George Miller , maker of the film “Mad Max,” were among 34
prominent Australians who endorsed a study by the Center for
Policy Development that was critical of the Australian
government’s refugee policy.  The report recommended boosting refugee quotas to 20,000,
phasing out mandatory detention within two years and ending
mandatory detention of children by the end of this year. Chaney
declined to comment on his endorsement of the study.  Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and  Sweden , with a
combined population of about 25 million, comparable to
Australia’s 22.5 million, received and processed 51,250 asylum
claims in 2009, according to the CPD report. Australia received
and processed 6,500 asylum claims in the same year. The country
has a quota of accepting 13,750 people under its humanitarian
program this year, including 6,000 refugees.  Since 1906, Australian courts have recognized that under
the constitution it was legal to deport “an alien to a place
other than the state from which the alien came,” the government
argued before the High Court.  No Obligation  Australia was the sixth country to ratify the UN Convention
relating to the Status of Refugees, the government said.  “The removal of a person who claims to be a refugee to a
third country is entirely consistent with that obligation, even
if that third country is not a party to the convention,” the
government argued.  The convention doesn’t impose an obligation to “assess”
protection claims, according to the government.  Ahead of the election in August last year, Abbott
campaigned against Gillard with a pledge to halt the boats and
people smuggling. Gillard’s  Labor Party  had 29 percent support
compared with 47 percent for the Abbott-led Liberal-National
coalition in a July 22-24 poll.  Christmas Island   The refugee debate reignited in December when a wooden boat
crammed with as many as 90 people seeking to reach Australia
crashed in heavy seas against the cliffs of Christmas Island. As
many as 50 people were killed.  "We know that people in desperate situations, fleeing
conflict and violence, may resort to desperate measures to reach
a ‘safe’ country," Claudia Tazreiter, a senior lecturer at
University of New South Wales’s School of Social Sciences and
International Studies, said in an e-mail before today’s ruling.
It’s unlikely "such a ‘refugee swap deal’ would deter people
smugglers."  The case is Between Sayed-Navab Shah and Minister for
Immigration and Citizenship. M70/2011. High Court of Australia
( Melbourne ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Gemma Daley in Canberra at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net . 