-- 
Austria Cuts Estimate of Banks’ Basel Capital Needs by 30%

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 
2011-08-31T09:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/austria-cuts-estimate-of-banks-basel-capital-needs-by-30-.html
The Austrian central bank lowered
its estimates on how much additional core Tier 1 capital the
country’s lenders need to comply with global rules and pay back
state aid by 30 percent to 7 billion euros ($10 billion).  This is less than the 10 billion euros estimated in
December, said Andreas Ittner, the central bank’s director
responsible for bank supervision. The lower amount is due to a
relaxation of rules on counting minority shareholdings and
lenders’ investments toward capital, as well as improved results
at Austrian banks, Ittner told reporters in Vienna yesterday.  The figure includes about 6 billion euros of so-called
participation capital provided by the  Austria  government and
private investors during the financial crisis that still need to
be repaid, he said. Current estimates are based on first-quarter
earnings, while previous estimates used the numbers for full-
year 2009.  The  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ’s rules require
banks to have common equity equal to at least 7 percent of their
risk-weighted assets. Austrian banks will need from 11 billion
euros to 14 billion euros to meet both the core Tier 1 and total
 capital ratios , down from a December estimate of 15 billion
euros to 18 billion euros, according to the central bank.  “This is a relevant amount, but not something that will
get the Austrian banking system into problems,” Ittner said.  Austria’s central bank, financial regulator and  finance
ministry  are working on a response to a proposal for
implementing the Basel rules in the European Union. The
statement, which will be submitted in mid-September, will
include calls for special rights for minority capital and state-
issued participation capital, Ittner said.  -- With assistance from Boris Groendahl in Vienna. Editor:
Anthony Aarons, Heather Smith  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 