-- 
Bafin-EFSF Capital, Solvency II, BATS, UK Banks: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-08-31T12:11:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bafin-efsf-capital-solvency-ii-bats-lightsquared-compliance.html
German financial regulator Bafin
opposes a proposal by the European Banking Authority to give the
 European Financial Stability Facility  the power to directly
inject capital into banks.  Bafin’s representative on the EBA board of supervisors
voted against a draft letter to the council of European finance
and economy ministers containing the proposal, the German
regulator’s spokesman Ben Fischer said in an interview
yesterday.  The majority of the 27 EBA members approved the plan, the
 Financial Times Deutschland  reported yesterday, citing an
unidentified person close to the German government. Under its
current setup, EFSF can only grant funds to governments.  The EFSF should only lend to states and not to banks, said
Michael Meister, the senior finance and economy spokesman for
German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Christian Democrats.  Banks should turn to the governments of the countries in
which they have their headquarters, Meister said. He told
reporters in Berlin yesterday that the EFSF should lend only to
states.  “I would make a plea that we stick to extending guarantees
for states,” he said.  Compliance Policy  Solvency II Directive May Cost Dutch Insurers $350 Million  Implementation of Solvency II, the proposed risk-based
regulation for insurers in  Europe , may lead to about 243 million
euros ($350 million) in one-time costs for Dutch insurers,
according to the country’s government.  In addition, insurers including  Aegon NV (AGN)  and  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,
will incur 33 million euros in extra administrative and
compliance expenses a year, the Dutch  finance ministry  said in
an explanatory note to draft legislation published on its
website yesterday.  The rules, scheduled to come into effect in 2013, aim to
provide a common regulatory framework for all insurers within
the European Union and to strengthen insurers’ reserves to
protect policyholders against a decline in financial markets.
Firms that plan to use internal models to calculate solvency
 capital requirements , which the EU rules allow, may have
combined one-off costs of 112.7 million euros, the Dutch
government said.  According to Dutch central bank figures, six insurers will
apply the internal models from the start of the implementation
of the EU rules, the finance ministry said.  Insurers have until Oct. 7 to submit their comments on the
government’s implementation proposal.  U.K. Local Councils to Raise Money on Capital Markets, FT Says  U.K. local councils intend to raise money by issuing bonds
for the first time in decades as a result of the government’s
decision to raise  interest rates  on central government loans,
the Financial Times reported.  Wandsworth council , which is
advised by  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and HSBC, plans to issue 250 million
pounds ($408 million) of bonds, the FT said.  Ernst & Young director Luke Reeve said between 10 and 20
councils would turn to capital markets to raise money, the
newspaper also said. The  Local Government Association  plans to
appoint advisers to study the creation of a collection agency to
issue aggregate council bonds, the FT said, citing Mark Luntley
of the LGA.  Compliance Action  BATS Gets SEC Approval for U.S. Primary Listings-Business Rules  BATS Global Markets has received approval from the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the rules for its U.S.
primary listings business, which it plans to start in December,
the company said in a press release.  All securities will be listed on the BATS BZH Exchange, the
statement said.  The Lenexa, Kansas-based  exchange operator  asked the SEC in
May to let it list companies on the BZX Exchange. It delayed the
creation of the corporate-listings business to December from
Sept. 1 in an announcement on Aug. 4.  LightSquared to Face Congressional Science Committee Hearing  Philip Falcone’s proposed LightSquared wireless service
faces a hearing Sept. 8 before the  U.S. House Science, Space and
Technology Committee , the panel announced yesterday.  Witnesses at the  hearing , entitled “Impacts of the
LightSquared Network on Federal Science Activities,” are to
include officials from the  Transportation Department  and the
 National Aeronautics and Space Administration , according to a
notice from the committee distributed by e-mail.  LightSquared is seeking regulators’ approval to build a $15
billion wholesale network of 40,000 base stations using airwaves
previously reserved mainly for satellites. Makers and users of
global-positioning system devices, which rely on satellite
signals, say LightSquared would disrupt navigation equipment on
aircraft, boats, tractors and automobiles.  The Federal Communications Commission is considering
Reston, Virginia-based LightSquared’s proposal.  U.K. Banks Spent Up to $351 Million on Payment Insurance Claims  U.K. banks paid out as much as 215 million pounds ($351
million) in the first six months of 2011 as redress for
misselling of payment protection insurance, the nation’s
financial regulator said.  The U.K. Financial Services Authority has collected data
from 16 banks accounting for 92 percent of PPI complaints made
between Jan. 1 and the end of June, finding these lenders paid
215 million pounds. The regulator said it will take “tough
action” against those that do not provide “appropriate
redress.”  PPI generates as much as 5.5 billion pounds revenue
annually for U.K. banks, the FSA has estimated. The insurance
covers payments on credit cards and mortgages in case of illness
or unemployment.  Customers who bought PPI rarely compared prices and terms
or switched providers and usually weren’t aware they could buy
it from a firm other than their lender, the U.K.’s Competition
Commission has said. The FSA introduced rules in August 2010
after it found financial firms reject more than half of PPI
complaints they received.  ARM Asset Backed Securities Refused License by Luxembourg Agency  ARM Asset Backed Securities SA, a Luxembourg-based special-
purpose vehicle, won’t be allowed to redeem its bonds or pay
coupons after the country’s financial watchdog refused to grant
it a license.  ARM has four weeks to appeal the decision, the  Commission
de Surveillance du Secteur Financier  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday.  A district court “will be requested to pronounce the
dissolution and order the liquidation of ARM” if the decision
is unchallenged, the CSSF said.  ARM bonds were listed on the Irish Stock Exchange and its
financial products were marketed in the U.K., Europe and the
U.S., the U.K.  Financial Services Authority  said in a statement
on its  website .  Dover Motorsports Is Latest U.S. Stock Halted by Circuit Breaker  Dover Motorsports Inc. (DVD)  yesterday became the latest U.S.
stock halted by circuit breakers implemented in June 2010.  The curbs were created after the 20-minute rout on May 6,
2010, erased $862 billion from the value of U.S. equities before
prices rebounded. New rules proposed  by exchanges on April 5,
2011, would shift the market to a limit-up/limit-down system
that prevents shares from moving more than a certain amount.  Oracle’s Dealings Abroad Investigated by U.S., WSJ Says  U.S. authorities are looking into whether software company
 Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  breached federal anti-bribery laws in its dealings
abroad, the Wall Street Journal reported.  The newspaper cited unidentified people familiar with the
matter. The authorities involved are the Federal Bureau of
Investigation’s Washington field office, prosecutors in the
 Justice Department ’s criminal division and lawyers at the
Securities and Exchange Commission, according to the newspaper.  Oracle’s software sales to countries in west and central
 Africa  are among transactions being investigated, the paper
reported.  An Oracle spokeswoman declined to comment on whether there
is an investigation and lawyers for the company didn’t respond
to requests for comment, the Journal said.  Capital Rules May Cut Bank Profitability to 11%, McKinsey Says  Lenders may struggle to earn more than an 11 percent return
on their equity as they implement rules and capital requirements
costing $610 billion over the next seven years, according to a
report from McKinsey & Co.  Global regulations, including the mandatory clearing of
over-the-counter derivatives and higher capital requirements,
may force banks to pass on a “portion of the higher regulatory
costs” to customers, the study said. Banks should “conserve
capital and boost efficiency” to stay profitable, London-based
McKinsey said.  “After mitigation, average returns-on-equity across
businesses will likely be 11 to 12 percent but with considerable
variation,” according to the report, written by a McKinsey team
led by Philipp Haerle and Thomas Poppensieker in Munich. “Some
of the worst-hit businesses with ROEs below the cost of capital
may have to be disposed of, especially at banks with weak
franchises.”  European lenders will need to raise an extra 423 billion
euros ($610 billion) by 2019 to comply with global capital rules
approved by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
according to a European Union study. The Basel committee also
said last month that 28 banks would be subject to additional
capital requirements to rein in too-big-to-fail banks.  Global banks started a counterattack against the capital
guidelines last week, warning the rules may reduce lending and
harm growth.  Courts  FDIC Objects to BofA’s $8.5 Billion Mortgage-Bond Settlement  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. filed an objection to
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond
settlement with investors, joining investors and states that are
challenging the agreement.  The FDIC, the receiver for failed banks, owns securities
covered by the settlement and said it doesn’t have enough
information to evaluate the accord, according to a filing
yesterday in federal court in Manhattan.  Under the agreement, Bank of America would pay $8.5 billion
to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide Financial Corp.
mortgage bonds. The settlement was negotiated with a group of
institutional investors, including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and Pacific
Investment Management Co. LLC, and would apply to investors
outside that group.  Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., the trustee for the
mortgage-securitization trusts covered by the agreement, has
asked a New York state judge to approve the settlement in
November. An investor group is trying to move the case to
federal court, which Bank of New York opposes.  Investors that would be bound by the settlement, including
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , have criticized the deal and
Bank of New York’s role representing investors in the mortgage
bonds. New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  and Delaware
Attorney General  Beau Biden  have sought to intervene in the case
and asked the court to reject it.  Andrew Gray, an FDIC spokesman, said in an e-mail that the
FDIC generally doesn’t comment on pending litigation.  “We believe that the trustee acted reasonably in entering
into the settlement, and that there are compelling reasons why
the agreement should receive judicial approval,” Lawrence
Grayson, a Bank of America spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Kevin Heine, a spokesman for Bank of New York, said the
company had no comment.  The state case is In the matter of the application of The
Bank of New York Mellon, 651786-2011, New York State Supreme
Court, New York County (Manhattan). The federal case is In the
Matter of the Application of Bank of New York Mellon, 11-
cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Ex-Beazer Homes CFO O’Leary Settles SEC Lawsuit Over Bonus  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission settled a suit
with  Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH) ’s former finance chief over stock-
sale bonuses he got while the homebuilder’s accounting
statements were out of compliance with federal law.  James O’Leary, the ex-CFO, must reimburse the company more
than $1.4 million that he received after Beazer filed fraudulent
financial results for fiscal 2006, the SEC said yesterday in a
 statement . The agency accused the Atlanta-based homebuilder of
falsifying reports to overstate income.  The SEC filed a single-count  complaint  against O’Leary in
Atlanta federal court alleging failure to reimburse, according
to the statement. O’Leary isn’t accused of misconduct and didn’t
admit or deny liability, the SEC said. A federal judge must
approve the settlement.  Larry Iason, a lawyer for O’Leary, didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  The case is SEC v. O’Leary, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Georgia (Atlanta).  Interviews  U.K.’s Cable Says Banks ‘Trying to Create Panic’ on Rules  Business Secretary Vince Cable said British banks are being
“disingenuous in the extreme” in opposing likely proposals
from the  Independent Commission on Banking  when it reports on
Sept. 12.  Cable’s comments, in an interview with the London-based
Times newspaper, responded to criticism from industry lobbyists
like the  British Bankers’ Association  and the Confederation of
British Industry. According to the CBI, proposals including the
creation of firebreaks around consumer-banking units, would
stifle economic growth unless they are delayed.  “It is disingenuous in the extreme to use the current
context to argue against reform,” Cable told the Times. “Banks
are in a way trying to create a panic around something which
they know has got to happen.”  Cable said reforms to the banking sector, which will be
published by the Commission, are necessary to tackle “the too-
big-to-fail problem” and that taxpayers underwriting banks’
balance sheets cannot be allowed to continue.  John Cridland, Director General of the CBI, said in a
British Broadcasting Corp. interview today that it would be
“barking mad” to implement such plans at the moment given the
U.K.’s faltering economic recovery.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings  Blanchflower Calls Krueger ‘Fantastic’ Pick by Obama  David Blanchflower, economics professor at Dartmouth
College and Bloomberg Television contributing editor, talked
about President Barack Obama’s nomination of economist Alan
Krueger to head the  White House Council of Economic Advisers .  The nomination is subject to Senate confirmation. Krueger,
who returned to  Princeton University  last November after serving
as the Treasury Department’s chief economist for two years,
would replace Austan Goolsbee.  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 