-- 
Baltic Container Rebound Dulls Hamburg’s Euro-Zone Pain: Freight Markets

-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n
-- 
2011-09-01T09:47:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/baltic-container-rebound-dulls-hamburg-s-euro-zone-pain-freight-markets.html
Russia  and other Baltic Sea states
are cushioning Europe’s biggest container ports from the worst
of the region’s debt crisis as their booming economies more than
compensate for slowing growth in countries using the euro.  Hamburg reported a 17 percent jump in first-half volumes,
led by a 51 percent surge in trade with Russia, Poland, Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania, and Rotterdam in the Netherlands posted a
9.8 percent gain. Box throughput rose only 3.9 percent in
Algeciras, Spain, and fell 0.7 percent in Gioia Tauro, Italy.  Growth in Baltic volumes is being led by demand for trans-
shipment, in which cargo to and from less-developed harbors is
sent via west-European ports served by bigger vessels with a
greater variety of long-distance routes. Bremerhaven in Germany
and Antwerp,  Belgium , are also benefiting from a trend that’s
aiding port operators including  Hamburger Hafen und Logistik AG (HHFA) ,
Eurogate GmbH,  DP World Ltd. (DPW) ,  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  and Cosco.  “Some Baltic countries such as Sweden are mature economies
which are not showing the same weaknesses as others,” said Neil Davidson, a port adviser at Drewry Shipping Consultants Ltd. in
 London . “More significantly there are emerging economies, the
most important of which in container terms by far is Russia.”  Hamburg Advance  Hamburger Hafen rose as much as 3.7 percent to 24.70 euros
and was trading at 23.95 euros as of 11:43 a.m. in  Frankfurt ,
valuing the company at 1.74 billion euros ($2.48 billion).  While Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has prompted bailouts
for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal, together with concern that
Italy and  Spain  will also need rescuing and a slowdown in core
euro-zone economies, most Baltic economies are still rebounding.
Though Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Poland and the three former
Soviet republics of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania are members of
the European Union, only Finland and Estonia use the euro.  German gross domestic product rose 0.1 percent in the
second quarter and  France ’s economy stagnated. Euro-area exports
fell a seasonally adjusted 4.7 percent in June from the previous
month, the EU’s statistics office in Luxembourg said Aug. 16.  By contrast, Russian GDP grew 4.2 percent in July and 3.8
percent for the year. Polish expansion averaged 4.1 percent in
the four quarters to March 31, and Latvian GDP rose 5.3 percent
in the second quarter following the EU’s worst slump in 2009.  In Hamburg,  Europe ’s third-largest container port after
Rotterdam and Antwerp, Baltic Sea states contributed 22 percent
of  traffic  in the first half, up from 20 percent a year earlier,
accounting for four-fifths of the 29 percent share for Europe as
a whole. That makes the Baltic the port’s second-most important
market after northeast  Asia , which has more than 40 percent of
volumes, and the region posted the highest growth rate at 31
percent, versus 14 percent for  China ,  Japan  and  Korea .  Rotterdam Leads  Russia is Hamburg’s third-biggest container trading partner
after China and  Singapore , contributing 276,000 standard boxes,
or 20-foot equivalent units, in the first half out of an East
European total of 505,000. Nordic states provided 443,000 TEUs.  “Hamburg is the most important port for container traffic
between the Baltic countries on one side and Asia on the
other,” Hamburger Hafen, which handles two-thirds of containers
at the port, said in response to questions. “This position
won’t be affected by currency turbulence.”  Total volumes in Hamburg stood at 4.3 million in the half,
compared with almost 6 million in Rotterdam, where the  harbor
operator said  Aug. 17 that throughput remains above forecasts
because of “significant” gains in trans-shipment, especially
with Russia, plus new services to East Asia and  South America .  Italian Exposure  Some south-European ports are also being sustained by
trans-shipment demand, according to Drewry’s Davidson. Algeciras
near Gibraltar and the Spanish Mediterranean port of  Valencia ,
where first-quarter box numbers gained 8.6 percent, are being
buoyed by trade with West Africa, where “volumes are growing
strongly,” he said, while the island of Malta and Gioia Tauro
in the toe of  Italy  benefit from flows with Black Sea nations.  Mediterranean ports not engaged in onward trade with high-
growth markets are most at risk, Davidson said, citing  Genoa and
La Spezia , northern Italy, as falling into that category.  Baltic demand may not be sufficient to sustain Hamburg and
Rotterdam should the European economy tip into recession.  While Bremen-based Eurogate, Europe’s No. 1 port operator,
has experienced no hit on volumes yet, according to spokeswoman
Corinna Romke, economic turmoil in the euro-area and the U.S.
will probably begin to impact in the fourth quarter, said Rico Luman, a transport economist at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam.  Still Cyclical  Eastern European won’t remain immune if the crisis deepens,
he said, with only  Poland  still growing during the last slump,
and then largely because of restricted exposure to world trade.  “Most of these economies are very much cyclical or
dependent on commodity prices,” Luman said. “For the time
being, these countries look to be in a different position, but a
euro-zone recession might lead to a fierce downturn in flows.”  Still, Swedbank AB last week raised its growth forecasts
for Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania after first-half output
“exceeded expectations,” and Hamburger Hafen said any reversal
that does occur will be short-lived based on the last recession.  “The long-time tendency of above-average growth in Central
and East European countries was only interrupted for a short
time during the last economic crisis,” Hamburger Hafen said.
“Trade volumes rose again, fast and strong.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  