-- 
Bank of Korea Gets More Financial-Sector Oversight Power With Revised Law

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-08-31T11:12:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bank-of-korea-gets-more-financial-sector-oversight-power-with-revised-law.html
The  Bank of Korea  said a revised law
passed by parliament today will expand its financial-sector
oversight, including letting it jointly inspect financial
institutions with regulators.  Parliament approved the bill by a 147 to 55 vote, the Bank
of  Korea  said in a statement today. The law also empowers the
central bank to require domestic lenders to set aside cash
reserves for bonds they issued, whereas banks now only need to
have reserves for customer deposits, it said.  The revision gives the central bank more power to oversee
the financial sector to avoid “systemic risks,” Bank of Korea
Governor Kim Choong Soo said today. Basel III capital rules
agreed by global regulators last year are likely to force banks
to hold more equity and easy-to-sell assets, in the aftermath of
the 2008 global financial crisis.  “The financial firms are not going to like it as they will
now have two inspectors,” said Sung Byung Soo, a banking
analyst at Tong Yang Securities Inc. in  Seoul . “But, it won’t
affect their earnings and sales much right away, though it may
impose some more restrictions on their operations.”  Authority to supervise local banks was transferred to the
Financial Supervisory Service, the financial regulator, in 1998
as part of a revision of the law regulating the Bank of Korea
that made  price stability  the central bank’s top priority.  The revised law will also let the Bank of Korea request
non-banking institutions to provide information on their
operations, the central bank said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  