-- 
Bank of America Settlement Should Be Voided, Nevada Says

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T14:00:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bank-of-america-settlement-should-be-voided-nevada-says.html
Nevada asked a U.S. judge to
terminate a settlement with  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  over home-loan
modifications tied to its Countrywide mortgage unit, saying the
company hasn’t complied with terms of the accord.  Bank of America increased consumer interest rates and
monthly payments in violation of a consent decree and required
homeowners to provide extensive documentation to qualify for
modifications even though the settlement calls for a
“streamlined” approach, the state said yesterday in a
statement. The state is seeking to file an amended complaint
against the bank with additional claims.  “After two and a half years of lost implementation -- of
borrowers denied modifications, discouraged by repeated and
futile efforts to obtain help, or already subject to foreclosure
-- the state no longer can get the benefit of its original
settlement with defendants,” state Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto said yesterday in court papers in Reno.  Nevada ’s request comes as other states challenge Bank of
America’s proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond settlement with
investors. New York says the deal, which would resolve claims
from investors in Countrywide Financial Corp. mortgage bonds, is
unfair to investors. The FDIC and other federal agencies are
seeking more information to evaluate the accord.  A Bank of America spokesman, Jerome F. Dubrowski, said the
bank didn’t breach the Nevada settlement.  Bank’s Statement  “Bank of America believes the best way to get the housing
market going again in every state is a global settlement that
addresses these issues fairly, comprehensively and with
finality,” Dubrowski said in an e-mail.  Nevada sued in December claiming the bank, which acquired
Countrywide in July 2008, misled consumers about requirements
for the modification program and how long it would take for
requests to be decided. The bank provided inaccurate and
deceptive reasons for denying requests, according to the
complaint.  The suit followed the announcement of a 50-state
investigation by  attorneys general  into bank foreclosure
practices after reports that faulty documents were being used to
seize homes.  Since then, a state attorneys general and officials from
federal agencies including the  Justice Department  have been
negotiating a settlement with the five largest mortgage
servicers in the U.S.  Masto is among attorneys general who have criticized any
settlement that would protect the banks from additional state
probes.  The case is State of Nevada v. Bank of America Corp., 11-
cv-00135, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  