-- 
Baxter Sues Teva to Enforce Agreement Over Anesthetic Liability Cases

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 
2011-08-31T17:07:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/baxter-sues-teva-to-enforce-liability-agreement-over-some-hepatitis-cases.html
Baxter International Inc., the maker
of blood products and intravenous drugs, sued  Teva
Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  to enforce an indemnity agreement
over claims the drugmakers sold the anesthetic propofol in a way
that led some patients to develop hepatitis.  Baxter contends in a  Delaware  Chancery Court lawsuit that
an arbitration panel found Teva was bound by an agreement to
cover all liability stemming from cases blaming tainted vials of
 propofol  for colonoscopy patients developing hepatitis C. A Las
Vegas jury last year ordered Teva and Baxter to pay more than
$500 million in damages to a Las Vegas school principal on one
such claim.  “Teva is obligated to indemnify Baxter for any and all
claims, damages, liabilities or losses, including” punitive-
damage awards in propofol cases, Deerfield, Illinois-based
Baxter said in the Delaware suit, filed yesterday.  The suit comes as a  Las Vegas  jury is hearing testimony in
the trial of three more cases alleging Teva and Baxter officials
sold propofol in oversized vials that encouraged medical
personnel to reuse the containers for multiple patients. Las
Vegas residents contend they got hepatitis C from the tainted
vials.  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Teva, didn’t
immediately respond to a call and e-mail seeking comment on
Baxter’s suit.  Hepatitis Outbreak  Teva faces almost 300 lawsuits stemming from a hepatitis C
 outbreak  three years ago in southern Nevada, the Petach Tikva,
Israel-based company said in a regulatory filing last month.
Nevada health officials blamed the reuse of propofol vials for
infecting patients with the incurable liver disease.  Teva manufactures the drug and San Francisco-based  McKesson
Corp. (MCK)  is its current U.S. distributor. Baxter sold the drug for
Teva until 2009, according to court filings. Propofol is an
intravenous agent used for sedation or anesthesia, according to
Teva’s  website.   Last year, a state grand jury indicted Dr. Dipak Desai, who
ran the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada during the time
outbreak occurred, on criminal charges. Desai’s case has been
delayed after a judge found him incompetent to stand trial. He
is also facing federal charges over the outbreak.  Punitive Damages  Teva already agreed to settle about one-third of the
hepatitis-related suits alleging patients received propofol from
reused containers, according to a July 28 filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Teva said it set aside an
undisclosed reserve to cover the settlements.  In the first propofol suit to go to trial, a Las Vegas jury
awarded  Henry Chanin , a private-school principal, and his wife
$5.1 million in compensatory damages and $500 million in
punitive damages against Teva and Baxter. Chanin argued he
developed hepatitis C after getting tainted propofol during a
colonoscopy.  Jurors ordered a Teva unit to pay $356 million of the
punitive award while assessing $144 million of the award to
Baxter. It was the fourth-largest U.S. jury award of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News. Teva officials
have asked the  Nevada Supreme Court  to throw out Chanin’s
verdict.  Baxter officials said earlier this month that Teva had
accepted all liability for the  Nevada  hepatitis cases.  Indemnity Agreement  In a February SEC filing, Teva officials said the
indemnification agreement with Baxter “does not extend to
punitive damages.” Four months later, Teva executives
acknowledged in another regulatory filing that an arbitration
panel ruled 2-1 that the agreement covered punitive awards.  Baxter officials filed a copy of the arbitration decision
in Delaware along with its suit to enforce the ruling. The
Philadelphia-based panel of retired judges concluded in June
that the indemnity agreement was hastily and “inartfully”
written.  “That was likely due to the fact that neither side
expected that Chanin or any other propofol case would lead to
such a disastrous jury verdict,” the arbitrators said in their
report.  The Delaware case is  Baxter International Inc. (BAX)  v. Teva
Pharmaceuticals USA Inc., 6819, Delaware Chancery Court
(Wilmington.) The Nevada case is Sacks v. Endoscopy Center of
Southern Nevada LLC, 08A572315, District Court for  Clark County ,
Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 