-- 
Bank of England Keeps Record-Low Rates Until August 2012 in BCC Forecast

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-08-31T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bcc-lowers-u-k-outlook-pushes-back-boe-interest-rate-increase-forecast.html
The British Chambers of Commerce cut
its U.K. economic growth outlook and said the  Bank of England 
will keep  interest rates  on hold until the second half of next
year.  The central bank will leave the rate at a record-low 0.5
percent until August 2012, when it will raise it by a quarter
point, BCC Chief Economist  David Kern  said in an e-mailed
statement today. The London-based lobby group said in May that
the bank would increase the benchmark this year.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee is holding
off raising interest rates as a faltering economic recovery
outweighs the risk of inflation that is more than double its
target. The BCC sees gross domestic product rising 1.1 percent
this year and 2.1 percent in 2012, cutting a June projection for
1.3 percent and 2.2 percent respectively.  “Future growth, both globally and in the U.K., will be
constrained by the consequences of the credit bubble and banking
crisis that caused the recession,” Kern said. “Debt levels are
still too high, and the process of deleveraging will be painful
and will inevitably result in a prolonged period of relatively
low economic growth.”  The BCC sees the central bank increasing its benchmark rate
to 1 percent in the fourth quarter of next year and to 2.25
percent by the end of 2013.  If signs of weakness in the economy persist, the bank will
consider increasing its 200-billion pound ($326 billion)
emergency bond-purchase plan by 50 billion pounds, the BCC said.
Regulators should also mull temporarily relaxing bank capital
requirements to “counter acute  risk aversion ” and promote the
availability of credit to businesses, it said.  Economic Outlook  U.K. economic growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second
quarter and the central bank cut its growth projections last
month. Its forecasts show GDP rising about 1.5 percent this year
and 2.2 percent next year.  The deteriorating outlook prompted Bank of England policy
maker Martin Weale and Chief Economist Spencer Dale to abandon a
push for a quarter-point rate increase at last month’s MPC
meeting. Some officials also debated whether there was a need to
expand the bond program.  Other central banks are also discussing additional
stimulus. Minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s Aug. 9 meeting
published this week showed some officials favored a “more
substantial move” beyond the pledge it adopted to hold rates at
record lows for the next two years.  The BCC sees the U.K. economy expanding 0.3 percent in the
current quarter, 0.5 percent in the last three months of the
year and then 0.6 percent per quarter in 2012.  “The outlook is tough, but the renewed gloom about the
economy is unjustified, and partly reflects earlier excessive
optimism,” Kern said. “Britain has the potential to recover.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  