-- 
Bertelsmann Says EMI Would Fit With BMG Rights’ Music Acquisition Strategy

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-08-31T10:30:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bertelsmann-says-emi-fits-with-music-acquisition-strategy.html
Bertelsmann AG Chief Financial
Officer Thomas Rabe said EMI Group Ltd. would fit with the
acquisition strategy of its BMG Rights Management, the music
company that the German media company runs with KKR & Co.  EMI, based in  London  and owned by  Citigroup Inc. (C) , has said
it is considering selling itself and is looking into a possible
public offering of shares or a recapitalization. Initial bidders
for the label of the Beatles and Pink Floyd included  Warner
Music Group Corp. (WMG) , Sony Corp. and  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal Music,
three people with knowledge of the matter said this month.  Asked whether Bertelsmann would consider joining with a
third party to bid for EMI, Rabe told reporters today that the
company has more flexibility in financing acquisitions because
it is closely held. He declined to comment further on the EMI
sales process, adding that  Europe ’s largest media company is as
“prudent” as before and that its spending policy hasn’t
changed amid the turmoil in capital markets.  Bertelsmann, based in Guetersloh,  Germany , is looking for
acquisitions after it returned to profit this year helped by
rising advertising sales at broadcaster RTL Group. BMG Rights
Management made bids for three different sets of assets from
 Warner Music , two people familiar with the talks said March 23.
Warner Music this year agreed to be acquired by billionaire Len Blavatnik for almost $3 billion.  EMI Offers  Offers for EMI have come from parties interested in the
whole company and in its individual businesses, one person said
this month, declining to be identified because the negotiations
are private. At least 10 proposals were submitted, said another
person.  EMI has both production and publishing units that sign and
promote singers and songwriters such as Coldplay,  Snoop Dogg  and
 Pink Floyd . Citigroup seized control of EMI in February after
the company and its owner,  Guy Hands ’s Terra Firma Capital
Partners Ltd., failed to meet the terms of loans used to buy the
business, in a deal valuing EMI at about 3.2 billion pounds
($5.2 billion), according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bertelsmann currently has 1.6 billion euros of cash and
unused credit lines, Rabe said today, adding that the company
aims to cut debt in the second half of the year. Bertelsmann’s
expansion plans come after several years when it had to focus on
cutting debt because borrowing ballooned in 2006 through the
buyback of a stake for 4.5 billion euros. The deal returned full
control of the company to the Mohn family.  Acquisitions  Bertelsmann said in March that it could spend as much as 1
billion euros on acquisitions this year.  Bertelsmann Chief Executive Officer Hartmut Ostrowski said
today that McGraw-Hill Cos.’s education business is “currently
not in our focus,” adding that the company’s priority is to
expand geographically.  McGraw-Hill, owner of  Standard & Poor’s , is considering
dividing in two, with the education publishing unit being spun
off or sold, a person with knowledge of the plans said earlier
this month.  Bertelsmann said today that net income rose 7.6 percent to
183 million euros in the first six months, driven by the RTL and
book publisher  Random House . Sales rose 1.9 percent to 7.2
billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel in London at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  