-- 
Better Trading Through Science

-- B y   N i k h i l   H u t h e e s i n g
-- 
2011-08-31T18:50:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/better-trading-through-science.html
John Coates, a senior research fellow in
neuroscience and finance at the University of Cambridge, has a
theory. He says there would be fewer stock market bubbles and
crashes if women and older men handled most of the trading.
“There is less diversity in the financial world than in the
military,” he quips. “On  Wall Street , we have one slice of the
population -- young men -- running our trading floors. That
leads to extreme behavior: They go wilding.”  Wilding is not good for stocks. Such behavior likely contributed
to the Internet crash in 2000 and the subprime-fueled crash of
2008-2009. So Coates, who spent 12 years trading fixed-income
derivatives for Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank in  New York , is
now examining traders’ hormones for clues on how much risk women
and older male traders are willing to take.  In 2007, Coates went to a trading floor and took repeated saliva
samples from 250 traders, mostly young men. He found that in the
mornings, when their testosterone levels were high, the traders’
confidence was also high. As they made winning trades, their
testosterone levels rose even higher, leading to profits in the
afternoon. The young men began to feel infallible, indulging in
increasingly risky behavior, such as buying shares of overvalued
stocks. But eventually too much testosterone, too much impaired
judgment, would drive markets to unsustainable heights. Then the
cycle could end. The overvalued stocks would crash and the
testosterone levels would return to normal.  “Testosterone is the molecule that explains irrational
exuberance,” says Coates. “A certain amount of testosterone can
be healthy, but too much can lead to a bubble.”  Understanding the Irrational  For most researchers working in neuroscience, the holy grail is
to discover how to regenerate the neurons of the brain. Such a
feat would help scientists put an end to diseases such as
Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s and many forms of dementia. But others
are taking the techniques of this growing field and applying
them to behavioral finance, itself a mash-up of economics and
psychology. The result is a new field called neuroeconomics,
which attempts to explain how people manage risk and why they
often make irrational decisions.  That emotions play a powerful role is nothing new.  Benjamin Graham , considered the father of  value investing , once said,
“Individuals who cannot master their emotions are ill-suited to
profit from the investment process.” But the core theories of
the field now known as behavioral finance were developed by
 Richard Thaler , professor of economics and behavioral science at
the Booth School of Business at the  University of Chicago , and
Daniel Kahneman of  Princeton University , whose work on the
questions, with the late Amos Tversky, won him the Nobel
Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences in 2002.  Kahneman and Tversky found that people suffer a higher degree of
pain from losing money than they feel pleasure from making
money. So they tend to hold on to losing stocks rather than sell
and lock in a loss.  Irrationality can also take the form of an emotional attachment
to an asset. R.J. Weiss, the 26-year-old founder of the blog Gen
Y Wealth, recently posted that he got caught in a behavior trap.
When his grandfather passed away, he inherited shares trading at
$25. As the shares fell to $20, to $10 and then to $5, Weiss
couldn’t bring himself to part with his grandfather’s gift.
Finally, in April, he sold at $3.04, locking in a 90 percent
loss. “The entire time the stock plummeted, I knew [that
holding] was the wrong thing to do. But I couldn’t get myself to
sell it,” wrote Weiss.  Prevention Mechanisms  Dan Ariely, a behavioral economist at MIT, says people need to
be cautioned against such irrationality, and that perhaps even
mechanisms must be established to prevent people from acting
rashly. “We know we need to create a mechanism that prevents
people from texting while driving,” says Ariely. “But in the
market, we’re not taking human character into account and that
is leading us astray.”  First, though, neuroeconomists must understand the role of
emotion in decision-making. Brian Knutson, a neuroscientist at
 Stanford University , and Camelia Kuhnen, a professor of finance
at Northwestern’s Kellogg School of Management, scan the brains
of investors while they make buy and sell decisions. They find
that investors with the biggest appetite for risk have increased
brain activity in an area called the nucleus accumbens. That’s
the part that lights up in an animal when it finds food, or in a
predator when it goes for the kill.  At the same time, there’s a surge in the feel-good chemical
dopamine. It floods your brain when you anticipate doing
something pleasurable or exciting such as sky diving, listening
to music or having sex. A dopamine high can cause investors to
engage in risky behavior.  Investors who are more risk-averse -- and less likely to jump
into a hot stock -- show increased activity in a different part
of the brain, the anterior insula, which plays a key role in
emotions such as anxiety and pain. It’s the part that lights up
when you get a whiff of a rotten egg or hear the hiss of a
snake. “By deconstructing why investors get excited, and why
they do what they do, we will design tools that can help people
make better decisions,” says Knutson.  Safeguards Against Scams  One such tool Knutson is working on is a way to help prevent
investors from becoming victims of financial scams. Knutson,
whose work is funded by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (FINRA), is using brain-imaging technology to see what
happens when investors are tempted by scammers. He says it may
seem that victims would simply be ignorant people. However, it
could be that victims are people whose brains get so excited
about potential gains they can’t help but take the risk. Or
maybe such victims are oblivious to fear. His findings could
lead to a tool that safeguards investors.  Where is all this going? Perhaps one day investors and traders
will have a biometric contraption connected to their computers.
It could scan the prefrontal cortex of the brain, determine
testosterone levels and measure sweaty palms in microseconds
before warning you not to make a trade. Or today’s research
could result in drugs that make people more rational.  “Within a few decades, performance-enhancing drugs will be part
and parcel of our world,” says Hersh Shefren, a professor of
behavioral finance at Santa Clara University. “Right now it’s
science fiction, but science fiction often becomes science.”  A more immediate solution may come from John Coates’s research:
Adjust the mix of traders to include more women and older men.  To contact the reporter on this story: Nikhil Hutheesing at
 nhutheesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Suzanne Woolley
at  swoolley2@bloomberg.net  