-- 
Birmingham City Owner Plans to Borrow HK$80 Million From Deputy Chairman

-- B y   M a r c o   L u i
-- 
2011-08-31T04:19:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/birmingham-city-owner-plans-to-borrow-hk-80-million-from-deputy-chairman.html
Birmingham International Holdings
Ltd. (2309) , owner of the English soccer club Birmingham City, plans
to borrow as much as HK$80 million ($10.3 million) from its
newly appointed deputy chairman.  The Hong Kong-based company entered into a two-year loan
agreement with Yang Yue Zhou, who was appointed executive
director and deputy chairman yesterday, according to a statement
to the  Hong Kong  stock exchange. The  interest rate  for the
unsecured loan is 12 percent a year, it said.  Birmingham shares have been suspended since June 30 when
Chairman Carson Yeung was charged with  money laundering  in a
Hong Kong court. Earlier this year, the company said its
liabilities exceeded assets by about HK$348 million. Birmingham
City was dropped from  England ’s Premier League last season,
three months after winning the League Cup, its first major
trophy in 48 years.  “The loan is borrowed at a very high interest rate and it
clearly shows that Birmingham is short of cash,”  Castor Pang ,
Hong Kong-based head of research at Core-Pacific Yamaichi
International Ltd., said by phone today. “The company has
difficulties generating sustainable  cash flow , especially after
the football club’s relegation.”  Proceeds from the loan will be used for the repayment of
debt and as general working capital, the company said in today’s
statement. Birmingham International generated 95 percent of its
HK$375.4 million in revenue from its football operations in the
six months ended Dec. 31, 2010, according to the company.  Hong Kong dollar loans signed by companies in the city since
January pay an average margin of 42 basis points more than the
Hong Kong interbank offered rate, data on 58 loans tracked by
Bloomberg show. A HK$700 million, five-year facility signed by
 China Oil and Gas Group Ltd. (603)  in January offers the highest
margin, at 370 basis points more than Hibor, according to the
data. Today’s three-month Hibor rate was quoted at 0.27964
percent.  Yang will hold office until the next annual general meeting
of Birmingham, the company said in a separate filing to the
stock exchange today.  Yeung, the former hairdresser who bought control of the
West Midlands-based football team in 2009, faces five charges of
dealing with property “known or believed to represent proceeds
of an indictable offense,” with a total value of HK$721.3
million, according to court documents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marco Lui in Hong Kong at 
 mlui11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  