-- 
Rebel Fighters Target Black Libyans, Sub-Saharan Africans, Amnesty Reports

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-31T11:28:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/black-libyans-targeted-by-rebels-with-sub-saharan-africans-amnesty-says.html
Black Libyans and sub-Saharan
Africans are being targeted by rebel fighters who suspect them
of backing  Muammar Qaddafi ,  Amnesty International  said.  Amnesty investigators this week visited the Central Tripoli
Hospital and the capital’s morgue where they witnessed abuses,
including men being dragged from hospital beds and detained, the
London-based group said in a  statement  late yesterday. Some
people are afraid to leave their homes, it said.  Sub-Saharan Africans risk reprisals from  NATO -backed rebels
because of allegations that Qaddafi used African mercenaries
during the six-month conflict, Amnesty said. Many black Libyans
are from the western town of Tawarga, which rebels associate
with the shelling and siege of nearby Misrata by pro-Qaddafi
forces, it said.  “The problem is black Libyans always were seen as
outsiders, and this stems probably from how Qaddafi decided he
would be an African leader of an African state and encouraged a
large amount of African immigrants, some of whom served in his
wars,” Shashank Joshi, an associate fellow at the  Royal United
Services Institute  in London, said today in an interview.  Mustafa Abdel Jalil, head of the National Transitional
Council, has urged opposition fighters not to seek revenge. In
May, the council issued guidelines for its forces to act in
accordance with international laws and standards. Mahmoud
Shamman, a spokesman for the council in Dubai, didn’t answer
calls seeking comment on the Amnesty statement.  ‘Lofty Ideals’  “This reflects very badly on the NTC,” Joshi said of the
Amnesty report. “They have said the right things, but their
ability to enforce those lofty ideals on those with the guns in
the streets is a lot more difficult.”  In visits to detention centers in Zawiya and Tripoli,
Amnesty said it was told that between a third and a half of
those detained were from Sub-Saharan Africa.  The rebels seem “to confuse black people with
mercenaries,”  African Union  Commission Chairman  Jean Ping  told
reporters in  Addis Ababa ,  Ethiopia ’s capital, on Aug. 29.  The council will need to “show sensitivity to these
concerns” if the rebel forces attempt to take Sirte, Joshi
said. Jalil yesterday gave Qaddafi supporters in his hometown
until Sept. 3 to surrender or face attacks.  Hold Fighters Accountable  In the statement, Claudio Cordone, a senior director at
Amnesty, called on the council to ensure its fighters are held
accountable.  “Fighters engaging in abuses should be immediately removed
from active duty, pending investigation,” he said.  During an Aug. 28 visit to a poor residential area of
Tripoli, Amnesty investigators found a group of Eritreans who
wouldn’t leave their homes because they feared being attacked,
according to the report.  The following day, Amnesty said its investigators saw three
rebels drag a black Libyan from his bed at the Central Tripoli
Hospital and detain him. Two other black Libyans receiving
treatment for gunshot wounds were told by anti-Qaddafi forces
that “their turn was coming,” according to the report.  Amnesty said its workers examined that same day the body of
an unidentified black man who was brought into the Tripoli
Medical Center morgue by unknown men. While he bore no visible
injuries, his feet and his torso were tied and blood was smudged
around his mouth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Alexander in  London  at 
 calexander1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 