-- 
BNY Mellon Replaces Former TD Banker Kelly as Its CEO After Disagreement

-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-09-01T14:02:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bny-mellon-names-hassell-chairman-ceo-as-kelly-steps-down-amid-board-rift.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , beset
by legal challenges and an underperforming stock, said Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer Robert P. Kelly left after a dispute
with directors over the way he ran the company.  Kelly, 57, who had led the world’s biggest custody bank
since 2007, left by “mutual agreement” with the board, the
company said yesterday in a statement. His successor is Gerald L. Hassell, 59, who has been president of New York-based BNY
Mellon since 1998.  The company’s stock has tumbled 33 percent this year and
trades at about the same level as in early 1997. Like other
custody banks, it’s struggled with low  interest rates , which
squeeze profits on lending cash and securities, and running
money-market funds.  BNY Mellon  has been sued for allegedly
overcharging pension funds on foreign-exchange trades and has
been accused by New York’s attorney general of violating state
law in its role representing investors in mortgage securities.  “The stock price is the ultimate measure of a CEO’s job,
and the stock hasn’t done well,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst at
 RBC Capital Markets  in Portland,  Maine , said in a telephone
interview. Cassidy, who rates the stock “outperform,” said
Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT) , whose stock is down 23 percent
this year, has done a better job winning new business than BNY
Mellon.  Kelly’s departure, which surprised analysts, was announced
yesterday after the close of regular U.S. trading. BNY Mellon
fell 34 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $20.33 at 9:58 a.m. in  New
York  Stock Exchange trading.  Directors Said Alienated  Jeep Bryant, a company spokesman, declined to comment
beyond the statement, which didn’t elaborate on the differences
between Kelly and the board. BNY Mellon’s outside directors
include Wesley W. von Schack, chairman of Aegis Ltd; Michael
Kowalski, CEO of New York-based Tiffany & Co.; John Surma Jr.,
head of Pittsburgh-based U.S. Steel Corp.; and Edmund Kelly,
chairman of Boston-based Liberty Mutual Holdings Co.  The board believed the CEO alienated some directors and top
executives by blaming some company problems on other members of
senior management, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing
people familiar with the matter. Kelly also was viewed by some
as having become difficult to work with, and the board feared
losing highly valued employees, the newspaper said.  BofA Overture  Kelly was one of at least five industry executives who
rebuffed overtures in 2009 from Bank of America Corp. to replace
 Kenneth D. Lewis  as CEO at the largest U.S. lender. Kelly, the
leading outside candidate, dropped out on Dec. 14 that year
after the board offered a $20 million compensation package, a
person familiar with the matter said at the time. The  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based company named an insider,  Brian T.
Moynihan , as its leader.  Kelly earned $19.4 million last year, a 38 percent increase
from 2009, boosted by stock awards and incentive pay, according
to a regulatory filing. He became head of BNY Mellon after the
bank bought Pittsburgh-based rival Mellon Financial Corp. in
July 2007, vaulting the company past JPMorgan Chase & Co. as the
largest custody bank. Kelly previously had led Mellon, which
recruited him from Wachovia Corp. in 2006.  Under his tenure BNY Mellon expanded through acquisitions,
buying PNC Financial Service Group Inc.’s investment-servicing
business for $2.31 billion and  Germany ’s BHF Asset Servicing
GmbH for 253 million euros ($363 million) in 2010.  Severance Payments  According to a March 11 regulatory filing, Kelly was
entitled to as much as $36.6 million in severance payments based
on a Dec. 31 stock price of $30.20. The stock closed yesterday
at $20.67.  “I said two weeks ago Bob Kelly should be fired and I gave
several reasons for it,”  Richard Bove , an analyst with Rochdale
Securities LLC in Lutz, Florida, said in a telephone interview.
Kelly was “too conservative” in setting prices for the bank’s
products and using the balance sheet to make money, Bove said.  Hassell joined Bank of New York as a management trainee in
1973 and has been on the board of directors since 1998. He’s
held leadership positions in investment services, corporate
banking, credit, strategic planning and administrative services.
Hassell has a bachelor’s degree from  Duke University  and a
master’s of business administration from New York University’s
Stern School of Business.  “Gerald is ideally positioned to guide BNY Mellon through
the next phase of its growth and to bring it to its full
potential,” von Schack, lead director of BNY Mellon, said in
the statement.  Cost Savings  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . State Street and BNY Mellon also
manage investments for individuals and institutions. BNY Mellon,
founded by former Treasury Secretary  Alexander Hamilton  in 1784,
sold its retail bank branches to JPMorgan in 2006.  BNY Mellon reported a 12 percent increase in second-quarter
earnings as acquisitions and market gains lifted assets and the
fees from overseeing them. The bank had assets under custody of
$26.3 trillion and assets under management of $1.3 trillion at
the end of June.  BNY Mellon bank said Aug. 10 it planned to cut 1,500 jobs,
or 3 percent of its 48,900 employees. Kelly said that “expenses
have been growing unsustainably faster” than revenue.  On a July conference call, he had said the bank would trim
costs by moving people to cheaper locations, consolidating real
estate holdings and cutting its procurement budget. The bank has
moved jobs in the past few years to Pittsburgh, Manchester in
the United Kingdom and the Indian cities of Pune and Chennai to
take advantage of lower costs.  N.Y. Attorney General  New York Attorney General  Eric Schneiderman  last month said
that BNY Mellon violated state law in its role representing
investors in mortgage securities created by Bank of America’s
Countrywide Financial unit.  BNY Mellon should pay penalties and restitution to
investors, Schneiderman said in an Aug. 4 court filing involving
Bank of America’s proposed $8.5 billion mortgage-bond
settlement.  BNY Mellon, along with State Street, has been accused in
lawsuits of inflating the price of some foreign-exchange
transactions and acting to conceal those markups. BNY Mellon is
facing lawsuits from  Virginia ,  Florida  and  Pennsylvania .  The bank has denied wrongdoing in all the cases, saying
customers were informed about its pricing policy and had the
option of using other vendors for their trades.  On the July conference call, Kelly blamed some of the rise
in expenses on escalating legal costs.  “Frankly, these are the unpleasant realities of a post-
crisis environment,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Stein in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  