-- 
Obama Resolves Dispute With Boehner by Delaying Address on Jobs by One Day

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g   a n d   K a t e   A n d e r s e n   B r o w e r
-- 
2011-09-01T04:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/boehner-asks-obama-to-delay-jobs-speech.html
Congress hadn’t even returned from
its August recess before a new partisan battle erupted, this
time over when President  Barack Obama  can give a speech.  Obama agreed last night to delay by a day the long-awaited
presentation of his jobs agenda to a joint session of Congress,
capping a day of bickering over whether he was trying to eclipse
a debate by Republicans seeking the nomination to run against
him next year. House Speaker  John Boehner  delivered an
unprecedented public rebuff to Obama’s request to speak on Sept.
7 -- the date of the Republican event -- saying there wasn’t
enough time to prepare for the president.  The Republican leader countered with an invitation to speak
the following night, Sept. 8, when the National Football League
season opens with a game featuring the Super Bowl champion  Green
Bay Packers . Obama accepted after some discussion, and the White
House issued a statement saying the president “welcomes the
opportunity” while giving no time for the speech.  “It’s a circus that just casts a deeper shadow on their
prospects for getting together on substance,” said David Gergen, director of Harvard University’s Center for Public
Leadership in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , and an adviser to
Presidents  Richard Nixon ,  Gerald Ford , Ronald Reagan and  Bill Clinton .  “We’ve dragged a serious debate about jobs into a crazy
debate about scheduling a speech and serious people around the
world look at it and say, ‘What the hell are you doing?’”
Gergen said in a telephone interview prior to the agreement.  Conflict over the nation’s fiscal policies brought the
government to the brink of default before the White House and
Republican leaders reached a last-minute deal to raise the
national debt ceiling just before Congress’s August recess.  Finger Pointing  Before the president accepted the delay, there was finger
pointing by both sides over what transpired yesterday. A White
House official said Boehner’s staff had been consulted ahead of
time and raised no objection to the timing of the speech.
Boehner spokesman  Brendan Buck  said the speaker had been
“simply informed” and hadn’t “signed off on the date.”  The dispute is just the prologue to the bigger fight over
who will lead the political debate on the economy going into
next year’s election. Obama is proposing measures he says would
boost growth and bring down the 9.1 percent unemployment rate.
He has confronted Republicans who won control of the House from
Democrats in 2010 on a campaign that stressed criticism of
Obama’s economic stewardship and the $830 billion stimulus he
pushed through Congress in 2009.  Playing Politics  Before last night’s agreement, Senator Jim DeMint, a South
Carolina Republican, warned he would seek to block Obama’s
speech if the president “insists on playing politics” by
giving the address on Sept. 7. He said he would oppose a
unanimous resolution that would clear the way for the address.  Donald A. Ritchie, the U.S. Senate historian, said he and
his staff hadn’t found any other public examples in which a
president had requested a joint session date and been turned
away.  Ritchie said he isn’t aware of an example of a president
publicly requesting a date for a joint session without first
checking privately with House and Senate leaders. “The emphasis
is on the word public,” he said. “We don’t know what kind of
negotiations have gone on” in private.  Members of Congress are scheduled to be in Washington only
on two evenings next week following the Sept. 5 Labor Day
holiday.  Twitter Announcement  Obama’s initial request to address Congress on Sept. 7 was
announced yesterday in a White House Twitter message. It would
have coincided with the debate among eight of the candidates
running for the party’s presidential nomination. They are
scheduled to face off at the  Ronald Reagan  Presidential Library
in Simi Valley,  California .  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said
in a message on Twitter that Obama’s original plan to give the
address on the night of the debate was “further proof” that
the Obama White House “is all politics all the time.”  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  dismissed the
criticism, saying the scheduling was “coincidental.” Asked at
a White House briefing yesterday whether the administration
intended to interfere with the Republican debate, Carney said,
“No, of course not.”  Security Sweep  In his letter to Obama opposing the Sept. 7 timing, Boehner
made no mention of the conflict with the Republican debate. He
said the House wasn’t scheduled to hold votes until 6:30 p.m. on
Sept. 7 and it would require more than three hours to conduct a
security sweep of the House chamber before a presidential
address.  Moving the address to the next evening would “ensure there
will be no parliamentary or logistical impediments that might
detract from your remarks,” Boehner wrote. He said he was
recommending the change of dates “on behalf of the bipartisan
leadership and membership of both the House and Senate.”  House Democratic leaders weren’t consulted by Boehner about
requesting a different day, according to an aide to minority
leader Nancy Pelosi, who wasn’t authorized to speak publicly.  Adam Jentleson, a spokesman for Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said the upper chamber’s leader
“welcomes President Obama to address Congress on Wednesday or
any day of the week he wants to.”  Laying Out Plans  In his request to address both chambers of Congress, Obama
wrote to Boehner and Reid that, “It is my intention to lay out
a series of bipartisan proposals that the Congress can take
immediately to continue to rebuild the American economy by
strengthening small businesses, helping Americans get back to
work and putting more money in the paychecks of the middle class
and working Americans, while still reducing our deficit and
getting our fiscal house in order.”  Obama chose a forum that presidents traditionally reserve
for their annual State of the Union addresses and occasions such
as national crises as he opens the fall political season with a
new economic agenda.  In a campaign email last night to supporters, Obama said he
asked for a joint session of Congress to present his plan
because “it’s been a long time since Congress was focused on
what the American people need them to be focused on. I
know that you’re frustrated by that. I am, too.” Americans must
hold lawmakers accountable if they don’t take action on  job
creation , he said.  Besides his annual State of the Union addresses and a
speech delivered just after he took office, Obama used the forum
of a joint session of Congress once before, in September 2009,
when he was prodding lawmakers to act on his proposal to
overhaul the U.S. health-care system.  Infrastructure Spending  Among the provisions Obama has been considering for his
jobs agenda are more infrastructure spending, tax incentives to
spur hiring, a reduction in the employer portion of the  payroll
tax  and changes to  unemployment insurance  to subsidize worker
retraining, according to people familiar with discussions.  Obama has spent much of the year pressing Congress to act
on a familiar set of plans: renewal of a 2-percentage-point cut
in the employee-paid portion of the payroll tax and extended
 unemployment benefits , which are both scheduled to expire on
Dec. 31; establishment of an infrastructure bank to fund public
works spending; ratification of free-trade deals; and
overhauling patent law. Obama has said those also will remain
priorities.  Signs of Weakness  Concern over the economy has increased as growth weakened
during the first half of the year to its slowest pace of the
recovery and financial markets turned tumultuous amid concern
about the European debt crisis.  The signs of weakness led private economists to revise
forecasts for the  unemployment rate  next year. The median
forecast for unemployment during next year’s fourth quarter is
8.5 percent, according to 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News Aug. 2 through Aug. 10.  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
Ronald Reagan, who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The jobless rate under Reagan had come down more
than 3 percentage points during the prior two years.  Standard & Poor’s  lowered the U.S.’s credit rating to AA+
from AAA on Aug. 5, saying the government is becoming “less
stable, less effective and less predictable.” Even so,
Treasuries posted the biggest monthly gain since December 2008,
as yields on the 10-year note dropped 52 basis points in August
to 2.23 percent at 5:19 p.m. yesterday in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net ;
Kate Andersen Brower in Washington at 
 kandersen7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  