-- 
BofA Names Murphy and Schleusner Co-Heads of Leveraged Loans

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 
2011-08-31T21:54:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bofa-names-a-j-murphy-robert-schleusner-as-co-heads-of-leveraged-finance.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
underwriter of U.S. leveraged loans, named A.J. Murphy and
Robert Schleusner as co-heads of global leveraged finance,
according to an internal memo.  Murphy and Schleusner will replace David Flannery, who was
named risk-management executive for global banking and markets,
according to the memo, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg
News. John Cokinos has been appointed head of leveraged finance
capital markets and syndicate, while Mike Browne and Lex
Maultsby are now co-heads of origination. They will report to
Murphy and Schleusner. Kerrie McHugh, a Bank of America
spokeswoman, confirmed the contents of the memo.  The appointments come three months after Bank of America
combined most of its loan sales force into one team in an effort
to give clients a single point of contact for multiple types of
loan transactions. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
controls 17.3 percent of the U.S. leveraged-loan market compared
with JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s 14.6 percent share, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Leveraged loans are a type of high-yield debt rated less
than Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and BBB- by  Standard &
Poor’s .  Murphy, who joined Bank of America Merrill Lynch in 2009,
was previously co-head of leveraged finance capital markets for
the Americas. She was in charge of underwritten and “best
efforts” financing consisting of speculative-grade loans and
bonds, according to the memo.  Schleusner was most recently a senior member of Bank of
America’s leveraged finance capital markets team, working on
both corporate loan deals and those involving private equity. He
joined the bank’s leveraged finance team in 1997.  Murphy and Schleusner will report to Alastair Borthwick and
Lisa Carnoy, co-heads of global capital markets, according to
the memo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Idzelis in New York at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  