-- 
BofA May Sell, Shut Correspondent Mortgage Unit as It Seeks to Cut Losses

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 
2011-08-31T20:36:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bofa-may-sell-correspondent-mortgage-lending.html
Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest
U.S. lender, plans to sell or shut its correspondent-mortgage
unit as Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  seeks to stop
losses on home loans.  “We intend to sell the correspondent-mortgage lending
division or, if a suitable deal is not identified, we will
consider other options,” including winding down the business,
 Dan Frahm , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail today. For
now, those operations “continue business as usual,” he wrote.  Moynihan, 51, is selling assets and overhauling mortgage
operations, which had a $14.5 billion loss in the second quarter
as investors demanded the firm buy back soured loans. The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank split the division earlier
this year, separating distressed loans from performing mortgages
and new lending.  “They’ve gotten the picture of what they need to do,”
said  Marty Mosby , a Nashville, Tennessee-based analyst at
Guggenheim Securities LLC, which manages more than $100 billion,
including Bank of America shares. “They’re following that
prescription pretty aggressively at this point, which is a
positive sign that management has finally gotten their hands
around what they need to do here.”  Bank of America is in talks with a potential buyer for the
correspondent business, Frahm said, declining to identify the
party.  Correspondent loans are typically originated by third-party
firms, which then sell them to larger lenders, such as Bank of
America. If the loans sour, buyers can ask originators to
repurchase the debt.  Outstanding Claims  Bank of America said in a regulatory filing this month that
correspondent loans accounted for 27 percent of outstanding
claims as of June 30. Many of the correspondent firms that had
sold loans to Bank of America during the housing boom between
2004 and 2008 are no longer in business, leaving the company
unable to recover funds, it said.  Hundreds of mortgage banks and brokers collapsed in 2007
and 2008, including Melville, New York-based  American Home
Mortgage Investment Corp. (AHMIQ)  and Atlanta-based HomeBanc Corp.  About 1,400 employees run Bank of America’s correspondent
operations, which are overseen by John Dixon, Frahm said. Dixon
reports to  Barbara Desoer , the firm’s head of home loans.  “There is no impact to this team at this time, and
ultimate decisions will be determined as part of the potential
sale process,” he said.  ‘Very Close Look’  Bank of America said last month that changing capital rules
were pushing it to take on fewer new contracts to oversee
outstanding debt, a key part of the correspondent mortgage
business in which closed loans are bought from the initial
lenders and usually resold.  “We’re taking a very close look at the types of activities
we’re originating and servicing, so on the front end, you’ll see
actions where we look to scale back,” Chief Financial Officer
 Bruce Thompson  said during a July 19 conference call.  Correspondent originations accounted for $21.8 billion, or
54 percent, of the bank’s mortgage lending in the second quarter
of 2011, Frahm said. This compared to $27.4 billion, or 46
percent, in the first quarter.  Bank of America climbed 11 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $8.22
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading as of 2:07 p.m. The
shares have slid 38 percent this year, compared with a 23
percent drop in the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Moynihan has booked about $30 billion in housing-related
charges since replacing  Kenneth D. Lewis  as CEO at the start of
2010, mostly because of the 2008 takeover of subprime lender
Countrywide Financial Corp.  The company agreed this week to sell about half its stake
in China Construction Bank Corp. for a $3.3 billion gain as it
seeks to bolster capital ahead of new international standards
and focus on core clients. The U.S. lender has also agreed to
sell its Canadian credit-card unit,  First Republic Bank  and
holdings in BlackRock Inc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  