-- 
Bombardier May Cut Regional-Jet Output With Buyers ‘Worried’

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y   a n d   B e n e d i k t   K a m m e l
-- 
2011-08-31T20:29:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bombardier-net-rises-fewer-advances-for-smaller-jets-predicted.html
Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  said it may cut
output of some regional-jet models as slowing economic growth
damps demand, and the shares fell the most in a benchmark
Canadian index.  Customers for the CRJ in particular are “sitting on the
sidelines, a little worried about where the market is going,”
Bombardier Aerospace President  Guy Hachey  said on an earnings
conference call today. “We will have to make some decisions in
the fall on production rates if things don’t change.”  While Bombardier is comfortable with its long-term outlook,
“the economic recovery we were anticipating is moving to the
right,” Hachey said. His division is the world’s third-largest
commercial planemaker and accounts for slightly less than half
of sales at Bombardier, which also builds passenger rail cars.  Bombardier will try to wait a couple of months for the
outcome of “advanced” sales campaigns -- six to seven for the
Q400 turboprop and three to four for the CRJ -- before
determining 2012 production, he said. The Montreal-based company
is already reducing output on its Q400 model.  The stock slid 35 cents, or 6.8 percent, to C$4.77 at 4:10
p.m. in Toronto trading, making it the worst performer today
among 259 companies in the Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite
Index.  Quarterly Profit  Net income attributable to Bombardier increased 57 percent
to $210 million in the three months through July, from $134
million a year earlier, the company said today in a statement.
Adjusted profit of 12 cents a share beat the 10-cent average
estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales gained 17
percent to $4.7 billion.  Bombardier said it’s watching market volatility in the U.S.
and  Europe , and predicted a “continued lower level of advances
from customers than initially anticipated” for this year. It’s
also facing more competition from regional-jet builders
including  Embraer SA (EMBR3) , Mitsubishi Aircraft Corp. and Sukhoi Co.  The company won 43 net orders in the second quarter for its
new CSeries airliner, which will compete against the smallest
aircraft offered by Airbus SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA)  when it enters
service in 2013.  “We feel good about the CSeries program, and it’s tracking
well,” Hachey said. The company is in advanced talks with four
or five customers, and anticipates “a steady flow of orders
coming in the months to come,” Hachey said.  CSeries Advantage  Bombardier expects the CSeries to have an advantage in
operating costs of at least 10 percent versus the 737 MAX, a
more fuel-efficient variant of the 737 that Boeing announced
yesterday, though Hachey said he’s waiting for more details
about the new model’s engines.  Boeing’s decision to follow Airbus by offering new engines
instead of developing an all-new replacement plane for the 737
has helped stoke interest in the CSeries, he said.  “We’re the only ones who offer a 100 percent new
aircraft,” he said.  The company announced its ninth order for the CSeries two
weeks ago, from Russian leasing company Ilyushin Finance Co.,
even as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  postponed plans to buy 100 jets
from either Bombardier or rival Embraer until next year.  Delta’s decision to buy 100 737-900ERs while pushing back
the purchase of smaller jets “happened to be at a time when
there was more anxiety in the marketplace,” Hachey said. “So
they probably went where they had more need and then where they
could wait, they decided to wait.”  Aerospace Sales  Sales at the aerospace unit rose to $2.1 billion from $1.9
billion, while earnings before interest and tax rose to $105
million. The backlog, or number of unfilled orders, increased to
$23 billion compared with $21.1 billion at the end of April.  Gary Scott , Bombardier’s commercial aircraft president, is
retiring Oct. 1 to deal with a family member’s illness. The
business will be headed by Hachey until a successor is named,
Bombardier said last week.  “It’s obviously a loss for the company,” Hachey said
today of Scott’s retirement, adding that he’s looking both
internally and externally for a successor and doesn’t expect any
major shifts in strategy.  Sales at the transportation unit, which makes subway cars
and locomotives, rose 26 percent to $2.7 billion. The division’s
earnings before interest and tax rose to $191 million. The order
backlog stood at $33.9 billion at the end of July, compared with
$34 billion on April 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel in Berlin at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  