-- 
Bonds Beat All Investments as S&P Downgrade Turns Treasuries Into Favorite

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-09-01T14:54:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bonds-beat-all-investments-as-s-p-downgrade-turns-treasuries-into-favorite.html
Bonds beat stocks and commodities in
August after  Standard & Poor’s  decision to strip the U.S.
government of its AAA credit rating roiled global markets and
made Treasuries the world’s best-performing assets.  The combination of the downgrade to AA+, slowing U.S.
growth and Europe’s debt crisis drove investors into the world’s
biggest and most-liquid debt market. Treasuries returned 2.8
percent, while the global bond market gained 1.99 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. The MSCI
All-Country World Index of stocks fell 7 percent, the biggest
slump since May 2010, and the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Total
Return Index of commodities lost 1.8 percent.  Instead of eroding the value of U.S. government debt, the
rating cut sparked financial market turmoil that made Treasuries
and the world’s  reserve currency  favorites among investors, with
10-year note yields dropping to a record low 1.97 percent on
Aug. 18. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index, or
VIX, surged the most after the downgrade on Aug. 8 since
February 2007. Crude oil fell 6.4 percent on the rating cut.  “You’ve generally seen sentiment really weakening and it
all dovetailed together,” said Brian Schneider, senior
portfolio manager and head of U.S. rates for Invesco Fixed-
Income at Invesco Ltd., which oversees $653 billion. “With
Treasuries and the dollar being the global reserve currency and
the biggest, broadest financial market out there, Treasuries
have benefited.”  Sovereign Returns  The Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trade partners, rose 0.3 percent to 74.147 in August, ending a
two-month slide. It rose 0.5 percent at 7:33 a.m. in New York.  Treasury returns exceeded those of AAA rated corporate and
 government bonds  worldwide by 0.8 percentage points in August,
the most since December 2008, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data.  “The U.S. creditworthiness is still unquestioned
worldwide,” said Edward Marrinan, the head of macro-credit
strategy at RBS Securities in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “As far as
Treasury pricing, yields and performance are concerned, it’s
fair to say the downgrade was a negligible event.”  Stocks and commodities pared losses at the end of the month
after Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke indicated during
an Aug. 26 speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, that the economy
isn’t deteriorating enough to warrant any immediate stimulus.  Growth Slowed  While Commerce Department figures showed gross domestic
product climbed at a less-than-previously estimated 1 percent
annual rate from April through June, the economy has never
contracted with the difference between 10-year and 30-year
Treasury yields as wide as the current 1.38 percentage points,
or 138 basis points.  Sovereign debt excluding Treasuries returned 1.65 percent,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Company
debt worldwide lost 0.38 percent, the worst return since June.  S&P cited the weakening “effectiveness, stability and
predictability of American policymaking and political
institutions” in its Aug. 5 downgrade of the U.S. The firm cut
the nation by one step even after Treasury Department officials
told the firm it had overestimated future national debt by $2
trillion. S&P said the error didn’t affect its decision.  “The downgrade was noise,” said Matt Toms, the head of
U.S public fixed-income investments at Atlanta-based ING
Investment Management, which oversees more than $500 billion.
“Raising the debt ceiling was more than noise and was something
that helped degrade the consumer and business outlook.”  Equity Losses  Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings affirmed their
AAA rankings on Aug. 2, the day President Barack Obama and
Congress agreed to raise the nation’s debt limit and adopt a
plan to enforce $2.4 trillion in spending reductions over the
next 10 years.  About $4 trillion was wiped off the value of global equity
markets in August, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
MSCI All-Country World Index fell for a fourth straight month
and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index lost 5.4 percent, including
reinvested dividends. The decline was led by companies most-tied
to economic growth, including commodity, financial and
industrial shares. The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index tumbled 14 percent
and the MSCI Asia Pacific Index sank 8.3 percent.  The  S&P 500  plunged 6.7 percent on Aug. 8 following the
U.S. rating cut, the index’s biggest slump since December 2008,
and rebounded 4.7 percent the next day after the Fed said it
will leave its benchmark  interest rate  at a record low through
at least the middle of 2013.  Unprecedented Swings  The swings in U.S. equities were unprecedented in the
history of the American stock market, according to data compiled
by Birinyi Associates Inc., Bloomberg and  Howard Silverblatt ,
senior index analyst at S&P. Never before has the S&P 500
reversed moves that large in each session over a four-day
period, the data show. The trading also marked the first time
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  moved more than 400 points
either up or down for four days in a row.  Confidence among U.S. consumers plunged to the lowest level
in August in more than two years as Americans’ outlooks for
employment and incomes soured. The Conference Board’s index
slumped to 44.5, the weakest since April 2009, from a revised
59.2 reading in July, figures from the New York-based research
group showed Aug. 30.  Hiring probably slowed in August and U.S. manufacturing
contracted for the first time in two years as  consumer
confidence  waned, economists said before reports this week.
Payrolls climbed by 70,000 workers after a 117,000 increase in
July, according to the median forecast of 82 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before Labor Department data Sept. 2.  European Sentiment  “There is an expectation that this week’s employment
number could be much weaker than the last one,” said David Glocke, head of taxable money market funds in Valley forge,
 Pennsylvania  at Vanguard Group, which oversees about $1.7
trillion. “That could bring the Fed closer to taking additional
measures to trying to address some of the economic concerns.”  European confidence in the economic outlook last month
plunged the most since December 2008 as a persistent debt crisis
roiled markets and clouded growth prospects across the 17-nation
euro region.  An index of executive and consumer sentiment in Europe fell
to 98.3 from a revised 103 in July, the European Commission in
Brussels said Aug. 30. That’s the lowest since May 2010.
Economists had forecast a decline to 100.2, according to the
median of 29 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Economic Prospects  “It’s necessary for Europe to answer the questions about
what degree of fiscal union will be accepted and how will it
manifest itself,” said Toms of ING Investment Management. The
lack of resolution creates “turbulence that’s strong enough to
down the plane of global growth,” he said.  The euro area’s economic prospects are deteriorating as
national governments cut spending in a bid to narrow deficits
and tackle the debt crisis. Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled Aug. 29 that the EU may reduce
its 2011 growth forecast from 1.6 percent on concerns that
financial turbulence could spill into the broader economy.  The dollar advanced 1.3 percent last month, the biggest
gain since May, according to the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes which track the greenback against nine developed-nation
currencies. The currency reclaimed its status as a haven after
investors pushed Switzerland’s franc and  Japan ’s yen to records,
prompting the nation’s central banks to take action.  Commodity Returns  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of decline was led by
industrial metals and energy. The gauge plunged as much as 4.5
percent on Aug. 8 and the next day dropped to the lowest level
since Dec. 1.  “It’s been a story of precious metals and grains versus
the industrial metals and energy,” said Michael Banks, a
London-based analyst at Hermes Commodities, which manages $1.9
billion of assets. “The economic outlook is still shaky,
particularly in the U.S., and that’s been driving the industrial
metals and the energy sector lower.”  Nickel and zinc on the  London  Metal Exchange led the
monthly declines on concern demand may weaken, declining 11
percent and 8 percent, respectively. Gold futures gained 12
percent, the biggest monthly advance since November 2009.
Bullion jumped to a record $1,917.90 an ounce in  New York  on
Aug. 23 as investors sought to protect their wealth against
financial turmoil.  Coffee Gains  Oil dropped in New York and London in August, on signs that
the global economic recovery is faltering and as the fall of
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ’s regime sparked hopes that
exports from the North African nation will be restored after a
six-month suspension.  Coffee traded in New York was the biggest gainer in August,
advancing 20 percent, the most since June 2010, on crop damage
in  Colombia , the second-biggest producer of arabica beans after
 Brazil . Wheat in Chicago advanced 11 percent as dry weather
damaged the crop in the U.S. Corn rallied 15 percent as the  U.S.
Department of Agriculture  cut its estimate for the country’s
crop, the world’s biggest, to 12.9 billion bushels (328 million
metric tons) from 13.5 billion bushels projected in July.  “High-quality assets were the place to be this month,”
said Brian Brennan, a money manager in Baltimore at T. Rowe
Price Group Inc., which oversees $132 billion in fixed-income
assets. “It’s a function of what’s happened in equity market
that’s driven investors to the safety of Treasuries. This
dynamic hasn’t delinked with the downgrade.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  