-- 
Bourbon Report Loss on Dollar; Says Offshore Energy Recovering

-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 
2011-08-31T05:23:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bourbon-report-loss-on-dollar-says-offshore-energy-recovering.html
Bourbon SA (GBB) , owner of the second-
biggest fleet of supply and crew ships for the oil industry,
reported a first-half loss due to a weaker dollar and said
offshore energy projects are picking up around the world.  The net loss was 21.4 million euros ($30.9 million)
compared with a revised profit of 41 million euros a year
earlier, the Paris-based company said in a statement. Earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization climbed
17 percent to 142.1 million euros while profit on the same
basis at the marine services division rose 5 percent to 95.4
million euros.  The “heavy and negative” impact of the weaker dollar
compared with the euro came from the fact that about 70 percent
of revenue is in the U.S. currency while 70 percent of costs
are in euros, Chief Executive Officer Christian Lefevre said on
a conference call.  Bourbon forecast an improvement in daily charter rates at
the end this year and in 2012 amid a recovery in the offshore
oil and natural gas market. The company was hurt last year by
oversupply of vessels for offshore oil and natural gas projects
as energy companies curbed or delayed some investment. Bourbon
plans to spend $2 billion to almost double its fleet through
2015 when it will have 600 vessels compared with 424 end-June.  “The market for modern offshore vessels is now turning
around,”  Lefevre said. “We have arrived at the end of a
downturn that has lasted since late 2008.”  Lower Maintenance Costs  The plan for standardized newly built vessels will lower
maintenance costs, making the acquisition of companies with
different types of fleets unattractive, Lefevre said. “No
acquisitions of companies or vessels” are planned, he said.  The French company reported earlier this month a second-
quarter vessel utilization rate of 84.7 percent compared with
81 percent the previous year. It said revenue at the shallow
water offshore business rose 64 percent over the period and
vessels were moved to the U.S. part of the  Gulf of Mexico  from
West Africa and the  Middle East .  “ Asia  will be a strong offshore growth region,” Lefevre
said on the conference call on prospects for growth in coming
months. “We count on growing in Asia.”  Over the longer term, the French company has forecast the
fleet expansion will lead to average revenue growth of 17
percent a year in the offshore division. Bourbon was founded in
1948 by sugar plantation-owning families on Reunion, the French
island east of Madagascar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  