-- 
Bouygues Surges Most in Three Years on Buyback Plan, Increased Sales Goal

-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 
2011-08-31T14:54:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/bouygues-stocks-surge-after-buyback-plan.html
Bouygues SA (EN) , the French construction
company with mobile-phone and media assets, rose the most in
more than two decades in Paris trading after announcing a plan
to buy back stock and raising its full-year sales target.  Bouygues jumped as much as 4.14 euros, or 18 percent, to
27.22 euros, the biggest intraday gain since at least October
1989, and was up 15 percent as of 4:48 p.m. The company will buy
back 1.25 billion euros ($1.8 billion) worth of stock at 30
euros a share, according to a statement today. Paris-based
Bouygues also lifted its revenue target for 2011 to 32 billion
euros after reporting second-quarter sales that beat estimates.  “The global economic backdrop and the August stock-market
crisis reinforced my point of view that it was urgent to focus
our strengths on ourselves,” Chief Executive Officer Martin Bouygues said at a press conference in Paris today. “We didn’t
have acquisition plans that seemed more interesting than the
buyback offer.”  The buyback program may boost earnings per share by about
11 percent if the full amount is repurchased, Bouygues said. The
stock of  France ’s second-largest company by revenue, which also
owns 90 percent of the country’s third-mobile phone operator, 43
percent of national television broadcaster TF1, and 31 percent
of train- and power-equipment maker  Alstom SA (ALO) , had fallen 28
percent this year before today’s announcement, as sales were
hurt by rising competition.  Sovereign-Debt Crisis  France’s benchmark  CAC 40 Index (CAC) , which has gained for the
past three days, has dropped 9.7 percent this month amid
investors’ concerns that European Union leaders will fail to
contain the region’s sovereign-debt crisis.  “It’s my duty not to seek growth for the sake of growth
but also to defend the interest of my employees and
shareholders,” the CEO said. Bouygues is “very happy” with
its stake in Alstom, and hasn’t looked at buying the 10 percent
of Bouygues Telecom that it doesn’t already own, he said. Buying
French cable-television operator Numericable isn’t on the agenda
either, he said.  Shareholders will meet Oct. 10 to vote on the buyback
proposal. SCDM, the holding company of Martin Bouygues’s family,
won’t tender its shares at the buyback, meaning that its stake
in Bouygues SA will climb to 21.1 percent from 18.1 percent
should the offer be fully covered, the CEO said.  Bouygues boasts a “very sound” financial structure, with
no debt repayment before 2013, and its businesses are able to
finance most growth on their own, Chief Financial Officer
Philippe Marien said on a call with journalists today.  Second-quarter net income rose 2 percent to 357 million
euros, the company said. Sales increased 4 percent to 8.53
billion euros. Bouygues raised its full-year revenue forecast
from a prediction of 31.9 billion euros in May. Sales in 2010
amounted to 31.2 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  