-- 
Brazil Unexpectedly Cuts Rate to 12% as Recession Risks Outweigh Inflation

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-09-01T00:01:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/brazil-cuts-key-interest-rate-to-12-as-recession-risks-outweigh-inflation.html
Brazil ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut interest rates as the risk of recession in Europe and the
U.S. shifted policy makers’ focus away from the fastest
inflation in six years.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
5-2 to cut the benchmark rate a half point to 12.0 percent after
raising rates at each of the previous five meetings. All 62
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast rates would be left
on hold.  “Re-evaluating the international scenario, the Committee
considers there was a substantial deterioration, reflected in
generalized reduction of great magnitude in the growth projections
for the major economic blocs,” policy makers said in their
 statement  posted on the central bank’s website.  A selloff in world stock markets, which lost nearly $5
trillion this month as  Europe  tried to stave off a sovereign
debt crisis and global growth showed signs of slowing, was a
“game changer” for emerging markets that had been focused on
cooling their economies, said Marcelo Salomon, chief economist
for Brazil at Barclays Plc.  “We experienced a very important negative shock,” Salomon
said in a telephone interview from  New York  before today’s
decision. “With the risks skewed toward deflation and
disinflation, all central banks are pausing and trying to gauge
when it’s going to be time to start cutting rates.”  Anticipated by Traders  With today’s reduction, Brazil became the second country in
the Group of 20 Nations after  Turkey  to lower borrowing costs in
response to the worsening global outlook. On Aug. 26,  Mexico 
also signaled that it may follow suit.  Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  this week redoubled
efforts to control spending to help stem inflation that
surpassed 7 percent in August for the first time since 2005. The
government this week raised its target for the 2011  budget
surplus  before interest payments by 10 billion reais ($6.3
billion), after tax collection jumped by 30 percent in June and
July.  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  argued that such a move
would “open space” for a reduction in interests rates, while
Rousseff yesterday vowed to take Brazil on a “new pathway” of
lower borrowing costs “starting now.”  Today’s cut had been anticipated by traders, who were
pricing in reductions in the Selic of as much as one percentage
point this year, according to Bloomberg estimates based on
interest rate futures. On Aug. 29, traders had been pricing in a
72 percent chance of a cut, then pared back their bets yesterday
and today.  Inflation Accelerating  Policy makers are betting that slower growth and declining
demand from  China  for Brazil’s iron ore and other commodities
exports will stem price increases without the need for further
monetary tightening.  Tombini said he expects the inflation rate to start falling
in September, and has pledged to hit the 4.5 percent mid-point
of the bank’s target range by the end of 2012.  Inflation, as measured by the IPCA-15 index, accelerated to
7.1 percent in the 12 months through mid-August. The IGP-M index
of wholesale, construction and consumer prices rose more than
expected in August, after falling in June and July.  The price increases are weighing on consumer sentiment,
reinforcing expectations that  Latin America ’s biggest economy is
slowing.  No Fiscal Stimulus  Consumer confidence  fell 1.1 percent in August, according
to a survey published by the National Industry Confederation,
while business confidence in the second quarter fell to its
lowest level since 2009. Industrial production in July fell 0.3
percent from a year earlier, while the bank’s economic activity
index fell in June for the first time since 2008.  “They are seeing less growth and less inflation, and the
risks of the international environment are much higher,” said
Maristella Ansanelli, chief economist at Sao Paulo-based Banco
Fibra SA. She forecasts four half point rate cuts starting in
October.  UBS AG and Citigroup Inc. this month cut their forecasts
for expansion of the world economy and predicted major central
banks will leave  interest rates  on hold through 2012.  Both Mantega and Rousseff have signaled they won’t increase
spending if growth in the world economy halts, as Brazil did
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.
That has fueled expectations that the central bank could take
advantage of another slowdown to aggressively cut its benchmark
rate, which is the highest in the G-20.  Labor Market  The high Selic rate is also a magnet for investment. Dollar
inflows have surged to $61 billion so far this year, putting
pressure on the real whose 46 percent rally since the end of
2008 is the biggest among 25 major emerging market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
October 2011, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose 2.5 basis
points, or 0.025 percentage point, to 12.29 percent. The real
rose 0.3 percent to 1.5896 per  U.S. dollar . The currency has
appreciated 46 percent since the start of 2009, the most of 25
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  While Tombini is being helped in his inflation fight by
commodities prices, which have fallen 11 percent since the end
of April, economists still expect him to miss his 2012 inflation
target as domestic demand is buoyed by a tight labor market and
easy credit.  Analysts held their 2012 inflation forecast unchanged at
5.20 percent in the most recent central bank survey, and raised
their forecast for 2011 inflation to 6.31, from 6.28 percent the
previous week.  Unemployment in July fell to 6.0 percent, its lowest level
this year. Total outstanding credit expanded 19.8 percent in the
year through July, even after repeated attempts by policy makers
to slow its growth.  The U.S. Commerce Department last week revised down its
number for second quarter GDP growth to 1 percent from 1.3
percent.  Christine Lagarde , the managing director of the
 International Monetary Fund , warned Aug. 27 that the world
economy is in a “dangerous new phase.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  