-- 
Brazil real Advances on Speculation Federal Reserve to Stimulate Economy

-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B e n   B a i n
-- 
2011-08-31T21:16:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/brazil-rate-futures-fall-as-industrial-output-trails-forecasts.html
The Brazilian real rose to a two-
week high on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will take
additional steps to stimulate growth in the U.S., the Latin
American country’s second-biggest trade partner.  The real advanced 0.3 percent to 1.5896 per dollar at 5:10
p.m. New York time, from 1.5951 yesterday. It earlier touched
1.5819, the strongest since Aug. 17.  Some Fed officials favored a “more substantial move”
beyond an Aug. 9 pledge to hold  interest rates  in the world’s
biggest economy at record lows for the next two years, according
to the minutes of the latest policy makers’ meeting published
yesterday. Stocks in the U.S. and  Europe  gained as reports
showed U.S. business activity and factory orders topped
forecasts.  “The mood abroad is a little bit better,” Eduardo Galasini, head of proprietary trading at Banco Banif Primus in
 Sao Paulo , said in a telephone interview. “The minutes of the
meeting showed that the Fed may adopt new stimuli and this tends
to weaken the dollar.”  Yields on the interest-rate futures contract due in
October, the most actively-traded today in Sao Paulo, rose three
basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 12.29 percent. The
contract due in January 2013 fell one basis point to 11.12
percent.  Most yields on contracts maturing in 2014 or later rose
after  Brazil  lowered its savings target for next year. The
Brazilian government is seeking to raise pension payments at
twice the pace of inflation, according to the government’s 2012
budget proposal.  Austerity Commitment  The budget proposal cast doubt on President Dilma Rouseff’s
commitment to fiscal austerity, according to Jorge Dib, a  fund
manager  at Grau Gestao de Ativos in Sao Paulo, which oversees
400 million reais.  “One thing is the new talk of the government and the other
is that they’re probably not going to deliver,” Dib said in a
telephone interview.  The budget proposal, which is subject to congressional
approval, forecasts faster economic growth than the 3.9 percent
estimated by analysts in a central bank survey published this
week.  Yields on the rate-futures contracts due in January
indicate traders are anticipating policy makers led by central
bank President Alexandre Tombini will reduce rates by at least
75 basis points from the current 12.50 percent by the end of the
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Bain in New York at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  