-- 
Brazil Reduces 2012 Budget Target as Pension Increases Outpace Inflation

-- B y   M a r i o   S e r g i o   L i m a   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-08-31T23:05:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/brazil-reduces-2012-budget-target-as-pension-outlays-outpace-inflation.html
Brazil  lowered its savings target
next year as the government seeks to raise pension payments at
twice the pace of inflation, according to the government’s 2012
budget proposal.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s first budget proposal since
taking office relies on 5 percent economic growth next year to
buoy a 10 percent jump in spending. That’s faster growth than
economists estimate, as demand for Brazil’s commodities exports
weakens on an expected global slowdown, and may cast doubt on
Rousseff’s commitment to fiscal austerity a day after she vowed
to clear the way for lower  interest rates .  A 13.6 percent jump in pension outlays, tax breaks for
industry and spending on infrastructure ahead of the 2014  World
Cup  will all complicate Rousseff’s efforts to boost savings next
year, said Tony Volpon, Latin America strategist at Nomura
Holdings Inc.  “There’s a lot of stuff that’s built into the budget
already,” Volpon said by phone from  New York .  The 2012 budget proposal presented to Congress today
expects a  budget surplus  before interest payments next year of
114 billion reais ($70 billion), equal to 2.5 percent of gross
domestic product. The government this week raised to about 128
billion reais, or more than 3 percent of GDP, its 2011 projected
primary surplus including state-run companies and local
governments.  The budget proposal, which must still be approved by
Congress, forecasts faster economic growth than the 3.9 percent
estimated by analysts in a central bank survey published this
week.  Spending Jump  The government plans to spend 1.8 billion reais next year
building stadiums and revamping airports for the World Cup and
2016  Summer Olympics  in Rio de Janeiro. It will also triple, to
26 billion reais, spending on Rousseff’s hallmark program to
eliminate poverty.  Spending on healthcare and education are slated to rise 15
percent and 33 percent respectively. Only 11 percent of Brazil’s
budget is reserved for discretionary spending, with the
remainder earmarked for pension payments, salaries and debt
servicing costs.  The budget’s biggest expenditure, on pensions, will be
indexed to a 13.6 percent raise in the country’s minimum wage to
619.21 reais per month from 545 reais this year. The wage is
adjusted annually according to a formula negotiated by labor
unions with Rousseff’s predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva ,
and takes into account inflation and economic growth from two
years prior. Brazil’s economy grew 7.5 percent in 2010, the
fastest in more than two decades.  “You have civil service unions that want to continue the
good times that they had under Lula, getting very nice wage
increases every year and more jobs,” Volpon said.  ‘Tricky’ Accounting  Budget Minister Miriam Belchior denied that the government
was reducing its savings target. She told reporters in Brasilia
that the government plans to repeat its performance this year
and achieve a “full” primary surplus of 140 billion reais
without taking advantage of special accounting rules allowing it
to discount as much as 40 billion reais from the budget goal.  “We’d prefer not to do this, but want leave a margin for
ourselves in case one day we need it,” she told reporters.  By leaving itself this “maneuvering room” the government
will generate unwanted “noise” in markets as investors gauge
whether Rousseff is committed to keeping a lid on spending, said
 Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo Investment
Bank.  “It sounds kind of tricky to me,” said Santos in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo. “All the uncertainty around fiscal
policy will remain there.”  Fiscal Commitment  Rousseff yesterday vowed to rein in spending as she seeks
to slow inflation that surpassed 7 percent in August, the
fastest in six years, and take Brazil on a “new pathway” of
lower borrowing costs.  This week, the government raised by 10 billion reais its
primary surplus target for this year, fueling expectations that
another round of budget tightening was in the works to pave the
way for lower interest rates that are the highest in the Group
of 20 nations.  A lower surplus target will make it more difficult for the
central bank to cut borrowing costs next year, said  Nick Chamie ,
the head of emerging markets research at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto.  Brazil’s success in meeting its budget targets this year is
largely due to strong tax collection, which is unlikely to
persist as the economy cools, Volpon said.  Tax Collection  The central government collected 90.2 billion reais in  tax
revenue  in July, up from 69.6 billion reais a year earlier.
Brazil’s budget deficit fell to 1.9 percent of GDP in the year
through July, down from 3.4 percent two years earlier.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose two basis
points to 11.15 percent at 1:42 p.m. New York time.  Brazil’s economy has recently shown signs of cooling, as
Chinese demand for Brazil’s commodities exports has waned and
industrial production has softened as a result of a currency
rally.  Industrial production shrank 0.27 percent in July from a
year earlier, and the central bank’s economic activity index
fell in June for the first time since December, 2008. Business
confidence in the second quarter slid to its lowest level since
2009.  Inflation should end 2012 at 4.8 percent, above the
government’s 4.5 percent target, according to the budget
proposal. The budget takes into account an average exchange rate
of 1.64 reais per  U.S. dollar  compared with 1.5951 reais at the
close of yesterday’s trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mario Sergio Lima in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mlima11@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Bristow at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net  