-- 
Brazil’s Lower Ethanol Blend Won’t Cut Gas Prices, Analyst Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-08-31T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/brazil-s-lower-ethanol-blend-won-t-cut-gas-prices-analyst-says.html
Brazil ’s plans to cut the amount of
ethanol that must be blended into gasoline may do little to
lower the price of fuel at the pump, an analyst said.  The country will cut its ethanol blending rate to 20
percent by Oct. 1, from 25 percent now. The measure is aimed at
ensuring there’s an adequate supply of the renewable fuel, which
has increased 27 percent in price since June, Minister of Mines
and Energy Edison Lobao said in a  statement .  The plan won’t cut ethanol consumption enough to
significantly drive down prices because bad weather is reducing
sugar-cane production and the industry’s investment in new mills
and plantations may not meet demand, said Salim Morsy, an
analyst for Bloomberg New Energy Finance in  New York .  “The effect this will have on final gasoline prices will
be marginal,” Morsy said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Cutting the blend-rate will reduce demand for anhydrous
ethanol, which is mixed with gasoline, by about 1.4 billion
liters (422 million gallons) to 1.6 billion liters a year, he
said. That’s about 6.4 percent of total ethanol consumption in
Brazil.  Rising demand for fuel from Brazilian drivers boosted
prices for anhydrous ethanol to 1.43 reais (90 cents) a liter on
Aug. 26, up 27 percent from its June 3 low this year.  Record High Price  The current price is lower than the record high of 2.46
reais a liter reached on April 15, during the rainy season when
mills shut down and ethanol supplies dwindled. That pushed up
the price of gasoline at the pump to 2.91 reais a liter, 13
percent higher than six months earlier, according to information
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Prices haven’t settled,” Morsy said. “And there are few
indications that they’ll subside in the coming months, even with
this blend reduction, given current fuel demand levels and poor
sugar-cane harvest outlooks.”  Brazil is expected to process 589 million tons of cane this
harvest, 5.6 percent less than last season because of poor
weather, government agency Companhia Nacional de Abastecimento
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  “We have to guarantee supply this year and next year
because we verified the harvest next year won’t be much better
than this one,”  Lobao said in the statement. “We have to take
action immediately.”  Brazil also plans to introduce new financing measures to
help mills store ethanol and re-plant cane plantations,
according to the statement.  Inadequate Investment  Under-investment in production capacity is the main reason
for climbing ethanol prices, said Arnaldo Correa, an analyst at
Archer Consulting in  Sao Paulo .  The cane industry has been growing at an annual rate of 2
percent for the last three years, and ethanol demand has been
growing by 9 percent, Correa said. “Companies aren’t building
enough to cope with increased demand. It’s simple mathematics.”  Companies including Bunge Ltd., ETH Bioenergia SA, Petroleo
Brasileiro SA and Cosan Ltd. are expanding their ethanol
production capacity, and it may take as long as four years for
some of those projects to come online, Morsy said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  