-- 
Brazilian Industrial Production Rose Less Than Expected 0.5% Last Month

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   R a g i r
-- 
2011-08-31T14:52:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/brazilian-industrial-production-rose-less-than-expected-0-5-last-month.html
Brazil ’s industrial production rose
less than analysts expected in July, indicating that a slowdown
in global growth is weighing on demand for textile and chemical
exports.  Output gained 0.5 percent from June, when production slid a
revised 1.2 percent, the national statistics agency said in a
report today. Economists expected a 0.7 percent increase,
according to the median estimate of 42 analysts in a Bloomberg
survey. Production contracted 0.3 percent from a year earlier,
led by a 21 percent drop in textiles.  “What this number showed is a stark contrast between
sectors connected to consumer demand and those exposed to the
global slowdown,” said Flavio Serrano, senior economist at
Espirito Santo Investment Bank in Sao Paulo. “For the central
bank this isn’t showing that consumer demand is letting up.”  Brazil’s central bank is expected to hold its benchmark
 interest rate  at 12.5 percent today as policy makers focus on
the risk of recession in  Europe  and the U.S. rather than the
fastest inflation in six years, according to all 60 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Bank President Alexandre Tombini has
raised interest rates five times this year.  President  Dilma Rousseff  is trying to slow inflation that
surpassed 7 percent this month by relying on a mix of higher
interest rates, spending cuts and measures to curb credit
growth. She is also trying to prevent manufacturers from losing
competitiveness as global economic growth slows and a stronger
real makes it cheaper to import cars, electronics and other
goods.  Yields Unchanged  The yield on futures contracts due January 2012 and January
2013 were unchanged at 11.92 percent and 11.13 percent,
respectively as of 9:16 a.m. New York time. The real rose 0.3
percent to 1.5911 per dollar.  Rousseff said yesterday that interest rates should begin to
fall as the government reduces spending.  “We want, starting now, to have lower interest rates on
the horizon,” Rousseff said in a radio interview.  Brazil raised its target for the 2011 central government
budget surplus before interest payments to 91 billion reais ($57
billion) from 82 billion reais, Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
said Aug. 29 in Brasilia.  Analysts remain skeptical the central bank will fulfill its
pledge to slow inflation to its 4.5 percent target next year,
even as economic growth slows. Consumer prices rose 7.1 percent
in the year through mid-August.  Food Output  In July, 14 industrial segments tracked by the statistics
institute grew, while 12 contracted. Output in food, drink,
printing and ethanol and oil refining expanded last month.
Pharmaceuticals, chemicals, textile and machinery equipment
production declined, the agency said.  “The economy is slowing a bit and you see that in some
indicators, but inflation still hasn’t showed it,” said Eduardo Galasini, head of proprietary trading at Banco Banif Primus in
 Sao Paulo . “There’s some strong rhetoric coming out about
lowering rates but if they do it prematurely inflation will come
back.”  The economy is showing signs of cooling after growing 7.5
percent last year, the most in two decades. The bank’s economic
activity index shrank in June for the first time since December,
2008, and business confidence in the second quarter slid to its
lowest level since 2009.  General Motors  General Motors Co., the biggest U.S. automaker, canceled
two scheduled Saturday shifts in August at its plant in Gravatai
to adjust to lower demand, the company said on Aug. 18.
Steelmakers in Brazil also cut this year’s production forecast
to 36.4 million metric tons from a previous estimate of 39.4
million tons.  Still, some carmakers may be moving into the South American
country.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , or BMW, plans to build an
assembly plant in Brazil to meet global demand, Automobilwoche
reported on Aug. 20, without saying where it obtained the
information.  Brazil’s economy is expected to expand 3.79 percent this
year, according to an Aug. 26 central bank survey of about 100
economists, down from 3.84 percent in the week earlier poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Ragir in  Rio De Janeiro  at 
 aragir@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 