-- 
BRICs No Cure for Global Economy This Time as Avon to Siemens Shares Sink

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-09-01T05:39:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/brics-no-cure-for-global-economy-this-time-as-avon-to-siemens-shares-sink.html
Stocks of international companies
that depend most on emerging markets for sales show developing
nations won’t be strong enough to buoy the global economy.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s gauge of U.S. companies with the
most developing-nation revenue fell 15 percent since April, the
biggest drop since the bull market began in 2009.  Avon Products
Inc. (AVP) , which gets at least 74 percent of operating profit from
emerging markets, sank 15 percent in New York last month.
 Siemens AG (SIE) , which doubled sales from the nations in five years,
lost 21 percent in Frankfurt, the most since October 2008.  During the U.S. recession from December 2007 to June 2009,
the BRIC nations of Brazil, Russia, India and  China  became the
engines of the global economy, with Chinese gross domestic
product expanding 7.9 percent even as America was still
contracting. While emerging countries produced about 85 percent
of global economic growth since then, China, India and Brazil
are slowing after they lifted  interest rates  to curb inflation
following at least $870 billion of fiscal stimulus during the
financial crisis.  “The policy driven boom of the past couple of years will
not be repeated any time soon,” said Stephen King, chief
economist at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London  and author of “Losing
Control: The Emerging Threats to Western Prosperity.” It’s
“difficult to see how emerging nations can ride to the rescue
once more,” he said.  Slowing Demand  That’s reflected in the stock market, where Avon and
Siemens fell about twice as much as the MSCI World Index last
month. With expansions faltering in the U.S.,  Europe  and Japan,
slowing demand in  Brazil , Russia, India and China means more
challenges to global growth. An index of Chinese manufacturing
was at 50.9, near a 29-month low, the China Federation of
Logistics and Purchasing reported today.  Some investors use an expanded BRICS grouping that includes
 South Africa  after it was invited to join the group in December.
Africa’s biggest economy expanded an annualized 1.3 percent in
the second quarter, its slowest pace in almost two years, data
reported on Aug. 30 by the statistics office show.  Emerging economies will probably “avoid a hard landing,
but they won’t be able to bail out the world,” said  Joachim Fels , chief economist at Morgan Stanley in London. The bank cut
its forecast last month for developing-nation growth next year
to 6.1 percent from 6.7 percent.  Avon, Whirlpool  Goldman Sachs’s BRICs Sales index, which includes shares of
Avon,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR)  and 47 more companies,
proved predictive four years ago, dropping 5.1 percent in the
fourth quarter of 2007 even as the MSCI Emerging Markets Index
rose 3.4 percent and analysts at Merrill Lynch & Co. and Morgan
Stanley said developing nations would “decouple” from the U.S.  Brazil and Russia fell into recessions and growth tumbled
in China and India. The BRIC gauge, whose companies rely on
emerging countries for about 50 percent of sales on average,
sank 57 percent in 2008, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  From the end of July through the close of New York trading
on Aug. 30, the Goldman index lost 8.7 percent while the MSCI
emerging gauge dropped 11 percent and the MSCI World index of
advanced-country shares retreated 8.4 percent.  Avon, the world’s largest door-to-door cosmetics merchant,
reported a 4.5 percent decline in second-quarter revenue from
Asia and said growth in central and eastern Europe slowed to 5.4
percent from 9.7 percent a year earlier, when it published
financial results on July 28.  ‘On Track’  The company’s shares have declined 23 percent in the past
12 months, compared with a 16 percent gain in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index. Chief Executive Officer Andrea Jung said on a
July 28 conference call that the New York-based company’s long-
term strategy of focusing on developing countries such as China
and India is “on track.”  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. lender by assets, gets
more than half its earnings from emerging markets, CEO Vikram Pandit said in March. While second-quarter revenue from the
consumer bank’s Latin American and Asian units rose 13 percent
to $4.46 billion, profit fell 14 percent. Shares of the New
York-based bank retreated 19 percent last month, more than the
11 percent drop in the S&P 500 Financials Index.  Whirlpool, based in Benton Harbor, Michigan, relied on
developing nations for at least 32 percent of its second-quarter
revenue, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The world’s
largest appliance maker reported a 92 percent plunge in
operating profit in Asia, more than the 62 percent decline in
 North America , the data show. Whirlpool’s shares fell 8.7
percent in August, extending this year’s retreat to 29 percent.  Siemens Growth  Siemens’s expansion into emerging markets has contributed
to an 11 percent increase in marketing and sales expenses in
2011 from a year earlier, the Munich-based engineering company
reported on July 28. CEO  Peter Loescher  said he still wants to
grow in these countries, which comprised about 30 percent of
revenue during the period. Siemens, whose products range from
power turbines to medical scanners, is valued at 12 times
reported profits, the lowest level on a monthly basis since
Bloomberg began compiling the data in September 2002.  Demand is waning in developing countries as exports to the
U.S. and Europe slow and tighter monetary policy curbs
consumption at home. The cost of shipping 20-foot box-loads of
manufactured goods to Northern Europe from Shanghai has dropped
54 percent during the past year as deliveries slowed, while
rates for 40-foot box shipments to the U.S. West Coast fell 35
percent, according to data compiled by Clarkson Securities Ltd.,
a unit of the world’s largest shipbroker.  Developed Nations  U.S. data last month showed the world’s largest economy
grew 1 percent in the second quarter, slower than initially
estimated, while German investor confidence slid to the lowest
level in more than 2 1/2 years in August.  “The bulk of emerging markets are still dependent on
developed-market growth, and that’s not coming any time soon,”
said Rajiv Jain, who oversees about $15 billion at Vontobel
Asset Management Inc., including the Virtus Global Opportunities
Fund, which beat 99 percent of peers this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brazil unexpectedly cut interest rates yesterday following
five increases in 2011 as the risk of recession in Europe and
the U.S. shifted policy makers’ focus away from the fastest
inflation in six years. The government is also trying to curb
credit growth after loans expanded by at least 19 percent for 12
straight months, leading to an increase in bad debt at lenders
including Sao Paulo-based  Itau Unibanco Holding SA. (ITUB4)   Tax Cuts  Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff cut 50.7 billion reais
($32 billion) from the 2011 budget two months after taking
office in January and Finance Minister Guido Mantega said on
Aug. 29 that the government plans to halt a rise in fiscal
spending this year. Mantega and former President  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva  used tax cuts and housing subsidies to help revive
growth in 2009 and 2010.  China lifted borrowing costs three times this year and
raised bank reserve requirements six times to combat the effects
of a record lending and infrastructure-spending binge that
helped revive the global economy two years ago. Consumer prices
climbed 6.5 percent in July, the most in three years.  Fixed-asset investment growth slowed the past two months
and new bank loans dropped to the lowest level this year in
July. China doesn’t need another stimulus plan and should
maintain current fiscal policies, said  Fan Jianping , director of
economic forecasting at the State Information Center, according
to a report last month by China’s Securities Times.  Global Recession  Emerging-market policy makers have less room to stimulate
demand after government budgets moved to a 2.7 percent deficit
this year from a surplus in 2007, according to  Nick Chamie , the
head of emerging markets research at  RBC Capital Markets  in
Toronto.  RBC and Morgan Stanley cut their estimates for global and
emerging-country expansions last month amid a selloff in
equities that wiped out almost $5 trillion of market value. The
world economy has a 50 percent chance of slipping into
recession, Michael Spence, a professor at  New York  University’s
Stern School of Business who won the Nobel Prize in economics in
2001, said in an Aug. 25 interview on Bloomberg Television.  Falling growth expectations in the developed world and
lower food and energy prices will ease inflation in emerging
markets and allow central banks to stop tightening monetary
policy, said Jim O’Neill, the chairman of Goldman Sachs Asset
Management who coined the term BRIC to describe Brazil, Russia,
India and China in 2001.  Surprise Cut  The S&P GSCI Spot Index of commodities fell 2 percent last
month. China let the yuan strengthen 0.9 percent against the
U.S. currency in August, making dollar-denominated commodities
cheaper.  The board of Brazil’s central bank voted yesterday to cut
the benchmark interest rate by a half point to 12 percent. All
62 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had forecast rates would be
left on hold. Turkey’s central bank left its main interest rate
unchanged at a historic low on Aug. 23 after a surprise cut
three weeks earlier and said there may be more reductions ahead.  Increasing trade between emerging economies will lessen
dependence on the developed world, according to Citigroup
economists. They forecast trade between emerging economies will
jump to 48 percent of the global total by 2030 from less than 25
percent today.  Grow at Home  “I expect a shift back to the emerging markets and that
Asia and China will lead the way,” Kirk Hartman, chief
investment officer of Wells Capital Management in Los Angeles,
said in an Aug. 25 interview on Bloomberg Television. “I like
the multinationals.”  Slowing economic growth will curb earnings at companies
that rely most on buoyant global demand, according to Vontobel’s
Jain, who’s avoiding industrial companies and commodity
producers. He owns consumer staples stocks including  ITC Ltd. (ITC) ,
the Kolkata-based cigarette maker, and Cia. de Bebidas das
Americas, Brazil’s largest brewer, in part because they can
boost sales even as the economy slows.  ITC has climbed 15 percent in 2011 and profits may increase
19 percent during the company’s current fiscal year, according
to the average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Shares of Ambev, as the Sao Paulo-based brewer is known, have
advanced 6.9 percent and earnings are poised to grow 16 percent,
according to the average forecast compiled by Bloomberg.  “Sustainable, quality growth is very narrowly available,”
Jain said. “A big part of the emerging-market world is
extremely exposed to what’s happening in the U.S. and Europe.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Patterson in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Laura Zelenko at 
 lzelenko@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  