-- 
Repsol Oil Hunt Risked as Pemex Ally Sacyr Demands More Cash

-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-08-31T16:03:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/brufau-s-oil-search-at-risk-as-pemex-joins-sacyr-push-for-cash-from-repsol.html
Antonio Brufau’s search for oil in
Brazil and West Africa that boosted  Repsol YPF SA (REP) ’s reserves by
25 percent since 2005 is in jeopardy after two of its biggest
shareholders allied to loosen his grip on the company.  Brufau should give up either his role as chairman or chief
executive officer,  Petroleos Mexicanos  and  Sacyr Vallehermoso SA (SYV) 
said on Aug. 29 when they announced an agreement to vote as a
bloc on improving management and on strategies to boost
earnings, share price and dividend payments.  Sacyr, which counts on dividends from its 20 percent stake
in Repsol to bolster earnings, skipped a board meeting last year
when directors endorsed Brufau’s strategy after he cut payouts
for shareholders to sustain investment in exploration. Sacyr, a
construction company whose profit slumped 61 percent in 2010,
must refinance a 4.9 billion-euro ($7.1 billion) loan that
funded its Repsol holding and is due in December.  “One of the key moves by Sacyr could be to ask Repsol to
raise its dividend,” Dominique Patry, an analyst in Paris at
Cheuvreux, said in a research note. “Sacyr was in dispute with
Repsol in 2009 over the oil major’s decision to cut its
dividend,” and “the agreement has apparently been signed
without knowledge of Repsol’s management.”  Repsol’s current dividend yield is about 5.3 percent, the
fourth-highest among the 33-member Stoxx 600 Oil & Gas index,
whose average is 2.7 percent.  A spokeswoman for Sacyr who asked not to be named in line
with company policy declined to comment. Pemex officials were
unavailable because they were traveling back from Madrid.  Cutting Debt  Brufau, 63, turned around Repsol’s fortunes since becoming
chairman in 2004 by cutting its debt and using new technology to
uncover reserves in areas such as in deep water in the Atlantic
Ocean off Brazil.  Discoveries in Brazil,  Sierra Leone  and  Morocco  helped the
company to prosper during the financial crisis which dragged
down most Spanish stocks. The stock has returned about 14
percent in the past 12 months, including dividends,
outperforming Spain’s benchmark Ibex 35 by 27 percentage points.  Repsol last year sold a 40 percent stake in the Brazilian
business to China Petrochemical Corp. for $7.1 billion in a deal
that valued the Spanish company’s remaining stake at about $10.7
billion. It invested $2 billion in exploring the site.  Sacyr suffered even as its Repsol investment prospered
because Spain’s construction-led economic boom turned to bust in
2008 as the supply of credit ran dry. Relations between Sacyr
Chairman Luis Del Rivero and Brufau deteriorated after Repsol
opted to invest its cash in developing new  oil fields  instead of
maintaining dividend payments.  Higher Payout  Cheuvreux’s Patry forecast Repsol will pay out 4.2 billion
euros in dividends through 2013 and disapproves of a higher
payout. Longer-term investor returns will likely be reduced
should the company divert cash from its upstream operations to
increase dividends, according to Lucy Haskins, an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in  London .  Repsol will watch out for the interests of all investors as
it responds to the pact, according to a spokesman who asked not
to be named in line with company policy. The agreement excludes
the majority of the company’s shareholders, he said.  The announcement  helped boost Repsol’s stock 6.2 percent in
two days, as investors anticipated Pemex’s share purchases. The
company may also benefit from a closer relationship with  Latin
America ’s biggest oil company as it looks to develop its
businesses in  Mexico  and  Brazil , said Stuart Joyner, London-
based analyst at Investec Securities.  ‘Deepen Relationship’  “Pemex have been looking to deepen their relationship with
Repsol for a while,” Joyner said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “With Mexico licensing rounds coming up, the
partnership is good for the company.”  Repsol is one of the world’s cheapest major oil companies
by several measures. It’s trading at about 9 times estimated
annual profit, compared with the 15 times average for the Stoxx
600 Oil & Gas index. Repsol’s share price is about 2.1 times its
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
cheaper than the gauge’s average multiple of 5.9 times Ebitda.  A higher share price will help Sacyr refinance its
syndicated loan used to fund its Repsol investment because the
shares are pledged as collateral to the lenders. Sacyr was
forced to post more collateral for the loan in 2008 to avoid
breaching of loan covenants after Repsol’s share price declined.
The revised terms were not made public.  ‘Agitated for Cash’  Sacyr “has repeatedly agitated for more cash payouts,”
said UBS AG analyst Jon Rigby in a research note yesterday.
“Repsol management has pursued an aggressive and successful
investment strategy at odds with Sacyr’s cash wants but one that
is well-regarded among institutional investors.”  Sacyr and Pemex want Repsol to sell its stake in Gas
Natural SDG SA, which has a market value of about 3.7 billion
euros, in order to fund an extraordinary dividend, El
Confidencial reported today, citing people close to the two
companies without naming them.  Repsol owns 30 percent of Gas Natural,  Spain ’s biggest gas
supplier, as part of a circle of cross-holdings that tie it to
 La Caixa , the Barcelona-based savings bank. Repsol controls Gas
Natural along with La Caixa, which owns 37 percent of the stock.
CaixaBank, La Caixa’s commercial lending arm, is Repsol’s
second-biggest shareholder with 13 percent.  Takeover Bid Discounted  Sacyr and Pemex said they aren’t interested in mounting a
takeover bid for Repsol and their combined holding will fall
just below the 30 percent threshold that requires a takeover bid
under Spanish  securities law .  The companies said in their Aug. 29 statement the move is
because Repsol shares are undervalued and they want to help
boost that valuation. They said they will seek to increase the
number of seats they control on the company’s board and pool
their  voting rights  on issues including the amount of dividend
the company pays.  “If it goes from an investment strategy to running the
company for cash and cutting down on capex that would be
detrimental,” said Anish Kapadia, an analyst at Tudor Pickering
Holt & Co. in London. “Pemex and Sacyr don’t necessarily have
the same interests as current management.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in  Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net ;
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  