-- 
Budget Cutting Needed to Cover Cost of Irene, Cantor Says

-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/budget-cutting-needed-to-cover-cost-of-irene-cantor-says.html
Eric Cantor , the No. 2 House
Republican, is pressing for budget cuts to cover the cost of
cleaning up after Hurricane Irene and other disasters.  Senate Democrats  said funding shouldn’t be delayed by
political bickering.  Both Republicans and Democrats said more funding is needed
to help communities rebuild. The Federal Emergency Management
Agency redirected money in a $792 million disaster fund to
states hit by Irene from yet-to-be-approved rebuilding projects
related to previous natural disasters.  Irene left behind high water in  New York , New Jersey and
 Vermont , which suffered its worst flooding in 75 years. FEMA is
helping state and local officials complete damage assessments,
aiding in search-and-rescue operations and has sent food and
water to areas hit by the storm.  “Those monies” for responding to disasters “are not
unlimited,” said House Majority Leader Cantor of  Virginia  in an
Aug. 29 interview on  Fox News . “We’ll find other places to save
so that we can fund the role the federal government needs to
play.”  Earlier this month, Congress averted a federal government
default by resolving at the last minute a battle over raising
the debt limit that was fueled by growing concern about the
widening federal deficit. Cantor pressured President  Barack Obama  to back bigger cuts in government programs without raising
taxes.  FEMA Praised  As lawmakers debate how to pay for disaster relief, FEMA is
winning praise. The agency six years ago was widely criticized
for its slow response to  Hurricane Katrina .  “FEMA, along with its state and local partners, was ready
to respond to Hurricane Irene’s damage in  Connecticut  and across
the East Coast, and was proactive in doing so,” Senator Joe Lieberman, the Connecticut independent who’s chairman of the
 Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee ,
said in a statement.  In response to Irene, FEMA sent more than 200 employees to
 North Carolina  alone and is working closely with local
officials, said Ernie Seneca, a spokesman for the state’s
emergency operations. FEMA’s effort builds on an ongoing
relationship, he said.  “When storms hit, we don’t have to exchange business
cards,” Seneca said in an interview.  Tour of Flooding  Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano and
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack yesterday toured flooded
regions of North Carolina and Virginia while FEMA Administrator
 Craig Fugate  traveled to Vermont to assess damage. Napolitano
and Fugate are scheduled go to  New Jersey  and New York today.  In responding to disasters such as Irene, Obama wants to
exercise “fiscal discipline,” White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said yesterday in response to Cantor.  “I wish that commitment to looking for offsets held by the
House majority leader and others” had been present when
Congress increased federal spending during President  George W. Bush ’s term, Carney said.  The Obama administration still is assessing Irene’s cost
and hasn’t decided whether to ask for more money from Congress,
Carney also told reporters yesterday.  Cantor pressed for Senate passage of a House spending bill
for the Department of Homeland Security, which would provide an
additional $1 billion for the  Disaster Relief  Fund in fiscal
2011, which ends Sept. 30, and $2.65 billion in fiscal 2012.
That legislation cuts funding for advanced technology vehicles.  Congress Returns  Senate Democrats said they would seek more disaster-relief
money as soon as Congress returns from its August recess on
Sept. 6.  “The American people deserve to know that critical
assistance won’t be held up by petty political squabbles in
Washington,” said Senator Mary Landrieu, a Louisiana Democrat
who heads the Senate appropriations subcommittee on homeland
security, in a statement.  Representative Jo Ann Emerson, a House Appropriations
Committee member who has urged the Senate to approve the House
legislation, said Congress should cover any spending on disaster
response by cutting government programs when possible.  “If we’re able to offset” the cost, “I think it’s
great,” said Emerson, a Missouri Republican, in an interview.
“If we can’t” cut programs to compensate, “the government’s
role is to provide for the safety of the public.”  Emerson said the agency is delaying projects aiding her
state’s recovery from the tornadoes by shifting its focus from
past disasters to help with Irene.  ‘Very Angry’  “It makes me very angry because we have thousands of
people hurting,” she said.  Delaying projects may make it more difficult for struggling
communities to recover, said Mark Merritt, who was FEMA’s deputy
chief of staff under former President  Bill Clinton .  “It’s going to be up to Congress to do their job and
prioritize this to ensure that the money is available to do the
repairs that are necessary,” said Merritt, president of
Washington-based  Witt Associates , in an interview. “Hopefully
it doesn’t get bogged down into another political battle.”  Napolitano said FEMA has funds to pay for “all projects
that are already under way,” including tornadoes earlier this
year. “Long-term projects that have not yet begun” could be
affected by any funding shortfall, she said on a conference call
with reporters yesterday. If Congress gives the agency
supplemental funding, those projects could be covered, she said.  Localities said they are anticipating federal government
money for long-term rebuilding.  “If they don’t get the funding in place, it could become
an issue for us,” said Robin Edgeworth, who is handling
Tuscaloosa,  Alabama ’s recovery from tornados that devastated the
area in April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in  Washington  at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva in Washington at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  