-- 
Canada Second-Quarter Gross Domestic Product (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-08-31T12:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/canada-second-quarter-gross-domestic-product-text-.html
Following is the text of
Canada's National Economic and Financial Accounts for
the second quarter as released by  Statistics Canada .  Real gross domestic product (GDP) declined 0.1% in the
second quarter, following a 0.9% increase the previous
quarter. The decline in the second quarter was largely a
result of a 2.1% drop in exports. Final domestic demand
rose 0.7%. On a monthly basis, real GDP by industry
increased 0.2% in June.  Export volume declined 2.1% after two quarters of
gains. Energy exports contributed the most to this second
quarter decline, down 6.7%.  Business investment in plant and equipment increased
3.7%, the sixth consecutive quarterly advance. Housing
investment edged up 0.2%.  Consumer spending on goods and services increased 0.4%,
after remaining unchanged in the first quarter.
Expenditures on durable goods rose 0.4%.  Goods production declined 0.8% while service production
increased 0.3% in the second quarter. Oil and gas
extraction, and to a lesser extent manufacturing and the
finance and insurance sector, were the main sources of the
decline in the quarter. Increases were recorded in the
public sector, professional services, construction, and
retail trade.  Oil and gas extraction decreased 3.6% in the second
quarter. Wildfires in Northern Alberta as well as
maintenance shutdowns reduced petroleum production.
Extraction of natural gas also decreased. Output in the
manufacturing industries declined 0.9%, as both non-
durable and durable goods manufacturing fell. The 6.0%
decrease in motor vehicle and parts production was partly
attributable to a supply disruption caused by the tsunami
in  Japan .  Expressed at an annualized rate, real GDP in the second
quarter declined 0.4%, after expanding 3.6% in the first
quarter. By comparison, real GDP in the United States grew
1.0% in the second quarter.  Exports decline  Exports of goods and services declined 2.1%, the first
decline since the third quarter of 2010. Exports of goods
fell 2.7%, while exports of services rose 1.2%.  Energy exports declined 6.7%, after an 11% increase the
previous quarter. Declines occurred in all goods
categories, except machinery and equipment, agricultural
and fish products, and forestry products.  The increase in service exports was mainly a result of
travel services (+5.2%) and commercial services (+1.2%).  Demand for imports rise  Imports of goods and services rose 2.4%, close to the
2.3% increase in the first quarter. Both goods imports and
services imports grew at a similar pace.  Imports of machinery and equipment recorded their
eighth consecutive quarterly advance. The 6.6% increase in
imports of machinery and equipment in the second quarter
was partly the result of the import of a natural gas
platform.  Dampening the overall increase in goods imports were
declines in automotive products (-5.4%) and energy
products (-0.8%).  Business inventories buildup  Business inventories increased $19 billion in the
second quarter, more than double the accumulation in the
first quarter.  Durable goods held by manufacturers accounted for
almost half of the inventory buildup in the second
quarter. Retail and wholesale trade inventories accounted
for most of the remainder. However, these trade
inventories grew less than they did in the first quarter.  Farm inventories increased for a second consecutive
quarter.  Business investment in plant and equipment continues to
expand  Business investment in plant and equipment continued
its upward trend, rising 3.7% in the second quarter, a
sixth consecutive quarterly increase. Machinery and
equipment has contributed the most to growth in overall
investment in plant and equipment in four out of six
quarters.  Business investment in machinery and equipment expanded
7.0% in the second quarter. Investment in industrial
machinery increased 17%, largely as a result of the
arrival of a natural gas platform.  Investment in computers and other  office equipment  also
registered double-digit growth, up 13% in the second
quarter. This was similar to the pace of growth recorded
in the second and third quarters of 2010.  Business investment in non-residential structures
increased 0.5%. This was a much slower rate of growth than
in the previous five quarters. Business investment in
engineering structures grew 1.0%, whereas investment in
buildings declined 0.9%.  Government spending  increases  Government expenditures on goods and services grew
0.4%, after remaining unchanged in the first quarter. All
levels of government increased spending on goods and
services this quarter.  Government investment in construction and machinery and
equipment grew 0.3%, about the same pace as last quarter
(+0.2%), but well down from the average quarterly
increases registered in 2010.  Housing demand edges up  Housing investment edged up 0.2%, a much slower pace
than the 1.8% advance in the first quarter. After two
consecutive quarterly gains, ownership transfer costs
related to housing resale activity declined 7.8%. In
contrast, new housing construction rose 4.1%. Renovation
activity was flat this quarter.  Consumer spending  increases  Consumer spending on goods and services rose 0.4% in
the second quarter. Consumers increased their purchases of
durable goods (+0.4%), as well as services (+0.8%).
Purchases of non-durable goods edged down 0.1%, while
purchases of semi-durable goods declined 0.8%.  The pickup in consumer spending was mostly a result of
increased spending on furniture, motor vehicle repairs and
parts, recreational equipment, and spending on
restaurants.  In contrast, expenditures on new and used motor
vehicles declined 2.0%, after a 1.7% drop in the first
quarter. Spending on clothing and footwear fell 0.5% in
the second quarter.  Income growth slows  Nominal GDP growth slowed to 0.4% in the second quarter
from 2.0% in the first quarter. Corporate profits declined
2.2%, as earnings fell for both financial and non-
financial enterprises.  Labour income grew 0.6% in the second quarter,
decelerating from the first quarter growth of 1.5%. The
growth of wages and salaries slowed in both goods-
producing and  service industries .  Personal disposable income rose 0.5%, down from the
first quarter growth of 0.8%. The personal saving rate was
4.1% compared with 4.4% in the first quarter.  The national saving rate was 6.2%, down from the first
quarter rate of 6.6%. The national saving rate had been
trending upward since the middle of 2009.  Purchasing power shows little change  Canada 's real gross domestic income, a measure of
purchasing power, remained virtually unchanged in the
second quarter. Canada's terms of trade, which measures
export prices relative to import prices, rose 0.3%.  The price of goods and services produced in Canada rose
0.5% in the second quarter. The main contributors to the
overall price increase were export prices of precious
metals and alloys, natural gas, and coal and bituminous
substances.  The price of final domestic demand rose 0.3%. Higher
prices for food and non-alcoholic beverages and motor
fuels and lubricants contributed to the increased price of
final domestic demand.  Financial Flow Accounts: Demand for funds increases  The demand for funds was up in the second quarter.
Total funds raised by domestic non-financial sectors rose
to $260 billion (seasonally adjusted at annual rates), up
from $219 billion the previous quarter. This increase was
attributable to a pickup in financing activity in the
government sector, which accounted for over one-third of
all funds raised.  Bonds continued to be the major vehicle for financing
by governments, with significant net issues for federal
and provincial governments. In addition, short-term paper
was a major source of funds during the quarter, a reversal
from the previous quarter in which redemptions outpaced
issues.  Overall household borrowing (mortgages,  consumer credit 
plus loans) declined in the second quarter. Most notably,
mortgage borrowing was lower in the quarter, reflecting a
decrease in housing resale activity.  Non-financial private corporations raised $67 billion
worth of funds in the second quarter, down from $70
billion in the first quarter. Most of the financing was
via equities and loans, while bond issues were
considerably lower.  Non-residents continued to supply funds to the domestic
economy in the second quarter. Once again, foreign
investment in Canadian securities accounted for most of
the inflows from abroad, mainly Canadian bonds and
equities.  In comparison, Canadian institutional investors and
financial institutions increased their investments in
short-term paper, shares and loans as well as bonds.  Gross domestic product by industry, June 2011  Real GDP rose 0.2% in June after a 0.3% decrease in
May. Both the goods producing and the service industries
increased 0.2% in June. Real GDP has been hovering around
the same level since January 2011.  Retail trade, mining and oil and gas extraction,
construction, the finance and insurance sector, and the
public sector were the main sources of growth in June.
Transportation and warehousing services, wholesale trade,
utilities and manufacturing recorded declines.  Retail trade advanced 1.0%, largely a result of
increased activity at both new and used car dealerships.
Excluding new and used car dealers, retail trade increased
0.1%.  Mining and oil and gas extraction was up 0.7%. Oil and
gas extraction advanced 1.4%, primarily on the strength of
natural gas. Support activities for mining and oil and gas
extraction also increased. Conversely, output at copper,
nickel, lead and zinc mines fell 5.2%.  Transportation and warehousing services declined 1.1%,
largely a result of labour disruptions affecting postal
services.  Construction grew 0.6% as increases in residential
building construction, as well as in engineering and
repair work, outweighed the decrease in non-residential
building construction. Increased activity was also
recorded in the home resale market, resulting in a 2.3%
advance for real estate agents and brokers.  The finance and insurance sector rose 0.5%, owing to
increases in personal and business loans, mortgages and
the volume of trade on the  stock exchanges .  Wholesale trade was down 0.3%, continuing its seesaw
pattern since January 2011. Wholesalers of food, beverage
and tobacco products as well as of personal and household
goods declined. In contrast, wholesaling of petroleum
products, building materials and agricultural supplies
increased.  Manufacturing edged down 0.1%, with the production of
non-durable goods down by 0.3% while the output of durable
goods edged up 0.1%. Manufacturing of primary metal and of
computer and electronic products fell. Motor vehicles and
parts production increased after two months of decline.
Manufacturing of petroleum and coal products rose as
output at refineries increased. Non-metallic mineral
products and machinery production also grew.  Products, services and contact information  Detailed analysis and tables  The National economic accounts module, accessible from
the Key resource module of our website, features an up-to-
date portrait of national and provincial economies and
their structure.  Note to readers  Important changes are coming to Canada's System of
National Accounts (CSNA), starting in May 2012. These
changes will affect all users of CSNA products and
statistics such as gross domestic product (GDP), balance
of payments, international investment, and input-output
tables.  For more information, consult Canadian System of
National Accounts 2012 Historical Revision.  Percentage changes for expenditure-based and industry-
based statistics (such as personal expenditures,
investment, exports, imports, and output) are calculated
from volume measures that are adjusted for price
variations. Percentage changes for income-based and flow-
of-funds statistics (such as labour income, corporate
profits, mortgage borrowing, and total funds raised) are
calculated from nominal values; that is, they are not
adjusted for price variations.  There are four ways of expressing growth rates for GDP
and other time series found in this release.  1. Unless otherwise stated, the growth rates of all
quarterly data in this release represent the percentage
change in the series from one quarter to the next, such as
from the first quarter to the second quarter of 2011.  2. The quarterly growth can be expressed at an annual
rate by using a compound growth formula, similar to the
way in which a monthly  interest rate  can be expressed at
an annual rate. Expressing growth at an annual rate
facilitates comparisons to official GDP statistics from
the  United States . Both the quarterly growth rate and the
annualized quarterly growth rate should be interpreted as
an indication of the latest trend in GDP.  3. The year-over-year growth rate is the percentage
change in GDP from a given quarter in one year to the same
quarter one year later, such as from the second quarter of
2010 to the second quarter of 2011.  4. The growth rates of all monthly data in this release
represent the percentage change in the series from one
month to the next, such as from May to June 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  