-- 
Canada’s Economy Contracts for First Time Since 2009 on Decline in Exports

-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 
2011-08-31T14:23:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/canada-s-economy-contracts-for-first-time-since-2009-recession.html
Canada ’s economy shrank in the
second quarter for the first time since the recession two years
ago, as a high dollar boosted imports and curbed exports while
natural disasters interrupted energy and automobile production.  Gross domestic product fell at a 0.4 percent annualized
pace during the April-June period following a 3.6 percent gain
in the first three months of the year, Statistics Canada said
today in Ottawa. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast no
growth in the quarter, based on the median of 23 responses, with
nine calling for an expansion and six for a contraction.  The world’s 10th largest economy joined  Japan  in shrinking
in the second quarter, reflecting weakness in the U.S. and
 Europe , its biggest trading partners. The report adds pressure
on Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  to keep his policy
interest rate at 1 percent at the Sept. 7 announcement, with
some investors betting he may need to cut borrowing costs.  “No matter what, we are getting growth that isn’t going to
be going anywhere for some time,” said  Derek Holt ,  Scotia
Capital ’s vice-president of economics in Toronto, by telephone.  “The Bank of Canada has full reason to remain parked on
hold for at least the next year or so,” Holt said. “When they
do start to raise  interest rates , I can’t see them doing more
than capping off at around 2 percent into 2013.”  The Canadian dollar rose 0.3 percent to 97.54 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 9:33 a.m. in Toronto, compared with 97.79 cents
yesterday. One Canadian dollar buys $1.02522. The price of
shorter-dated bonds rose, with the yield on Canada’s 2-year
government benchmark falling one basis point to 1.02 percent.  Drag From Trade  Trade was the biggest drag on the economy in the second
quarter as imports of goods and services rose 2.4 percent, led
by a 6.6 percent gain in machinery and equipment. Exports, which
equaled a third of Canada’s economy in 2010, fell 2.1 percent,
the most in two years. Automobile production fell an annualized
6 percent, disrupted by Japan’s earthquake and tsunami, while
wildfires in Alberta and maintenance shutdowns curbed oil and
gas extraction by 3.6 percent.  “Accidents can happen to any economy and we had temporary
troubles in energy and autos that likely accounted for the
negative sign” said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at  CIBC
World Markets  by telephone from Toronto. “We likely aren’t yet
in recession despite the negative second quarter,” he said,
adding that “the biggest risk is beyond Canada’s borders.”  Domestic Demand Grows  Second-quarter final domestic demand, which excludes
inventories, imports and exports, grew by 0.7 percent after 0.5
percent in the first quarter,  Statistics Canada  said today.
Consumer and government spending both increased 0.4 percent
after being little changed in the first quarter.  Fixed  capital investment  rose by 2 percent, led by a 3.7
percent increase in business spending on plant and equipment.  Inventories rose by C$19.2 billion ($19.6 billion) in the
second quarter, the most since the end of 2007 and more than
double the C$9 billion gain in the previous three months,
Statistics Canada said.  Canada’s economy shrank from the fourth quarter of 2008
through the second quarter of 2009 according to Statistics
Canada figures. The country doesn’t have an official arbiter of
recessions similar to the  National Bureau of Economic Research 
in the U.S.  On a monthly basis, Canada’s gross domestic product rose
0.2 percent in June, compared with the 0.1 percent expansion
that was the median forecast of 23 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Retail sales of new and used cars led the gain.  Economy ‘Paused’  Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty , speaking to reporters in
Toronto about 30 minutes after the report was released, said the
economy “paused” in the second quarter. “As anticipated, the
data published today show that the Canadian economy is still
very fragile,” Flaherty said. “Global economic growth has been
weak in recent months and as a trading nation, we must recognize
that turmoil abroad will inevitably have an impact on our
economy.”  Business investment and consumers will lead an economic
recovery in the second half of this year, Governor Carney  told 
the House of Commons Finance Committee Aug. 19. While opposition
lawmakers at the hearing asked about the need for more
government stimulus, Flaherty, whose  Conservative Party  holds a
majority of seats in Parliament, said that major new spending
would be “precisely the wrong direction” for Canada.  Economic ‘Headwinds’  Carney also said the “headwinds” restraining the economy,
including the Canadian dollar’s rise against the U.S. dollar,
had increased. The Canadian dollar touched 94.07 cents per U.S.
dollar July 26, the strongest since November 2007. Since then,
the currency has weakened and government bond yields have fallen
on bets Carney may cut rates to fight the global slowdown’s
impact.  Royal  Bank of Canada  Chief Executive Officer Gordon Nixon
warned Aug. 26 of “significant headwinds” for banks, including
sovereign debt concerns, after his company posted profit that
missed analysts’ estimates for the sixth time in seven quarters.  Banks around the world are facing “a slowdown in  consumer
lending  and the added difficulty of an operating and prolonged
low interest rate environment,” Nixon said on an earnings call
for Canada’s largest lender.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1 percent annualized pace in the
second quarter, the Commerce Department said Aug. 26. Output in
the 17-nation euro area rose 0.2 percent in the second quarter
from the first, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said Aug. 16.  Third Quarter Growth  The Bank of Canada  forecast  in July growth rates of 2.8
percent in the third quarter and 2.9 percent in the fourth.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg Aug. 22 to Aug. 29 predicted
growth of 2 percent in the third quarter and 2.2 percent in the
fourth.  “The domestic economy has been strong compared to the U.S.
but clearly there is a roof on Canadian growth if the U.S. gets
back into recession,” Canadian Trucking Alliance President
David Bradley said in an Aug. 28 telephone interview. “There is
a fragile optimism heading into the fourth quarter” when
retailers stock up for holiday sales, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 