-- 
Canadian Imperial Third-Quarter Net Rises to C$808 Million on Bank Fees

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-31T13:33:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/canadian-imperial-third-quarter-net-rises-to-c-808-million-on-bank-fees.html
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,
the country’s fifth-biggest bank, reported third-quarter profit
that beat analysts’ estimates on higher  investment-banking  fees.
The lender raised its dividend for the first time in four years.  Net income for the period ended July 31 rose 26 percent to
C$808 million ($825.7 million), or C$1.89 a share, from C$640
million, or C$1.53, a year earlier, the Toronto-based bank said
today in a statement. Revenue rose 7.3 percent to C$3.06
billion.  “CIBC generated the strongest beat against consensus that
we have seen this quarter and Q3 earnings represent a
significant rebound from the disappointing second quarter,”
 John Aiken , a Barclays Capital analyst, said today in a note.
“While definitely feeling the impacts of the market slow-down,
CIBC’s wholesale operations have shown remarkable resiliency in
earnings.”  Earnings from investment banking rose almost fivefold from
a year ago, offsetting slower growth in  consumer lending . Higher
fees from advising on takeovers and financings, as well as
merchant banking gains, increased results for the business.  CIBC said it had adjusted earnings of C$1.91 a share,
beating the C$1.80 a share average estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg News. The bank raised its quarterly
dividend to 90 cents a share from 87 cents.  Stock Performance  Canadian Imperial rose C$2.65, or 3.6 percent, to C$75.71
at 9:32 a.m. trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Before
today, the stock had fallen 6.7 percent this year, compared with
the 2.7 percent decline of the eight-company S&P/TSX Commercial
Banks Index.  Canadian Imperial said it set aside C$195 million for bad
loans, down from C$221 million a year earlier.  Canadian consumer lending and business banking rose 2.5
percent to C$539 million, led by personal banking and growth in
loans and deposits. Profit growth for the business was the
slowest in at least five quarters.  The bank said in September it set an annual profit goal of
C$3 billion for consumer lending within three years, an
increased from C$2.2 billion in 2010.  CIBC World Markets  earned C$145 million, up from C$25
million a year earlier, when the bank’s CIBC World Markets unit
recorded losses from a structured credit business. Earnings from
underwriting and advisory fees jumped 20 percent to C$130
million from a year earlier.  Mergers Advice  CIBC advised on nine takeovers valued at $9.9 billion that
were completed in the quarter, including Equinox Minerals Ltd.’s
sale to Barrick Gold Corp., according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s triple the amount from a year earlier. CIBC
also arranged $1.56 billion in equity financings and preferred
stock sales in the three-month period, up 71 percent from a year
ago.  Trading posted a C$22 million loss in the period, compared
with revenue of C$131 million a year earlier, on structured
credit products.  Wealth management, which includes mutual fund sales, rose
28 percent to C$68 million. This is the first quarter that
Canadian Imperial reported separate results for wealth
management. Earnings from its corporate unit, which includes
Caribbean banking, rose 56 percent to C$56 million, the bank
said.  Canadian Imperial is the fifth Canadian lender to report
third-quarter results. Bank of Montreal,  National Bank of Canada 
and Bank of Nova Scotia topped analysts’ estimates, while Royal
Bank of  Canada  missed expectations. Toronto-Dominion Bank
reports tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  