-- 
Carrefour Will ‘Reset’ Prices After Cutting Forecast, CEO Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-08-31T13:04:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/carrefour-will-reset-prices-after-cutting-forecast-ceo-says.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, plans to “reset” prices in its biggest
market in a bid to revive earnings after cutting its annual
profit target.  Carrefour tried to do “too much, too quickly” in France,
where current operating income fell by 40 percent in the first
half, Chief Executive Officer Lars Olofsson said today at a
presentation in  Boulogne Billancourt , France. The grocer plans
to sacrifice short-term sales growth to build a sustainable
platform for profit expansion, he said.  The new strategy, which will focus on price competitiveness
and customer traffic, “will put Carrefour back on a sound
footing to rebuild momentum,” Olofsson said. Carrefour is
“biting the bullet in 2011.”  Consumers have shunned Carrefour’s French hypermarkets,
which are usually outside of town centers and larger than
typical supermarkets, because they are deemed more expensive and
harder to get to. The grocer will step up smaller store
expansion, focus on selective price investment and increase the
number of own-branded items to 40 percent of sales from a
forecast 25 percent at the end of 2011.  The retailer needs to get prices “back in line,” said
Noel Prioux, who was named head of the French business in June.
“We want to get back to the best prices, item by item.”
Carrefour’s prices can be 3 percent to 5 percent higher than
some competitors, analysts have said.  The stock fell as much as 4.5 percent today and traded 1.6
percent lower as of 3:02 p.m. in Paris trading after Carrefour
said it anticipated full-year current operating income would
decline by about 15 percent this year. The retailer had
previously anticipated an increase in profit on that basis.  Planet Revamp  Olofsson, who took the top job in 2009 after a decade in
which sales barely grew in  France , has sought to reverse
decreasing market share in the country via a 1.5 billion-euro
($2.2 billion) revamp of 500 superstores, or hypermarkets,
across  Europe .  While Carrefour is suffering from price hikes from
suppliers and a worsening economic environment in southern
Europe, the retailer’s performance in France was partly “our
own doing,” Olofsson said. Carrefour focused too much on short-
term growth and market-share gains, he said.  Total first-half current operating income decreased 22
percent to 772 million euros. The company posted a net loss of
249 million euros, weighed down by exceptional charges of 884
million euros. The 2011 profit setback doesn’t change
Carrefour’s long-term goals, the CEO said.  Carrefour will convert fewer stores to the new format,
dubbed Carrefour Planet, this year than originally forecast, it
said today. That may reduce the 1.5 billion euros it allocated
for investment in the project, though it won’t have a
“fundamental” impact on the plan. The full conversion will
occur by 2013 as planned.  ‘Full Potential’  Olofsson declined to comment on how the converted stores
were performing, saying only that the four so-called model
Planet stores posted sales growth of 14 percent in the first
half as more shoppers visited, advancing their market share. The
other Planet stores “need time to reach full potential,” he
said.  Carrefour will cut capital expenditure in Greece and  Italy 
by 2013 and remodel rather than convert 103 hypermarkets in
 Spain  within the same time. Commodity price hikes are “severely
affecting consumption” in southern Europe, Olofsson said,
adding that the “headwinds” are likely to continue for some
time to come.  Carrefour won’t slow the rate of store expansion globally,
outgoing Chief Financial Officer Pierre Bouchut said. In growth
markets, such as  Latin America ,  Asia  and eastern Europe,
Carrefour plans to lift capital expenditure and introduce new
formats, including e-commerce. It will also expand the Atacadao
cash and carry format in Latin America. Some 475 new stores will
be opened in growth markets this year, Olofsson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  