-- 
Carrefour Slashes Annual Profit Forecast After French Earnings Slump

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-08-31T08:49:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/carrefour-slashes-annual-profit-forecast-after-french-earnings-slump.html
Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s second-
largest retailer, cut its forecast for profit this year, saying
it expects a decline of about 15 percent amid a slump in France.  The grocer previously forecast an increase in current
operating income from restated 2010 figures, the  Boulogne
Billancourt , France-based company said today in a statement. The
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News was
for an 11 percent drop in profit to 2.4 billion euros ($3.5
billion).  Carrefour will step up its expansion of smaller stores and
lift the proportion of own-label goods it sells to woo more
shoppers focused on convenience and price, the company said at a
presentation today. Carrefour has lost about a third of its
market value this year amid slipping profit in France.  The new outlook is “worse than consensus,”  Christopher Hogbin , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein, said by phone. “On
the plus side, it does seem as if we have a bit of a dose of
realism coming out of management.”  As recently as July 13, Carrefour forecast a “progression
in sales and current operating income,” while saying the first-
half profit drop was a “handicap” to meeting the target.  Carrefour shares fell as much as 85 cents, or 4.5 percent,
to 17.80 euros and traded 2.3 percent lower at 18.22 euros as of
10:43 a.m. in Paris trading. The company has a market value of
about 12.4 billion euros.  New Strategy  The new strategy “will put Carrefour back on a sound
footing to rebuild momentum,” Olofsson said. The company will
sacrifice short-term sales growth to build a sustainable
platform for profit expansion, it said. Current operating income
fell by 40 percent in  France  in the first half.  Olofsson, who took the top job in 2009 after a decade in
which sales barely grew in France, has sought to reverse
decreasing market share in the country via a 1.5 billion-euro
revamp of 500 superstores, or hypermarkets, across Europe. The
plan has so far failed to win over enough consumers and doesn’t
address demand for convenience and proximity, analysts have
said.  Carrefour will convert fewer stores to the new format,
dubbed Carrefour Planet, this year than originally forecast, it
said today. The full conversion will occur by 2013 as planned.
The four so-called “model” Planet stores posted sales growth
of 14 percent in the first half as more shoppers visited,
advancing their market share.  First-Half Profit  First-half current operating income decreased 22 percent to
772 million euros, Carrefour said. The retailer said last month
it expected profit in the period of about 760 million euros. The
company posted a net loss of 249 million euros, as it had
exceptional charges of 884 million euros.  Profit in  Europe  fell, as a challenging economic
environment in Greece and  Italy  outweighed a recovery in the
company’s Belgian business.  In  Brazil , where a proposal to merge the company’s business
with a local rival fell through last month, profitability
increased “significantly,” Carrefour said. The company remains
committed to Brazil and the stores are not for sale in the
country, Olofsson said today.  Carrefour, which wrote down the value of its business in
Brazil by 550 million euros last year, is improving purchasing
decisions in the country while cutting overhead and converting
underperforming superstores to its more successful Atacadao cash
and carry brand.  A spinoff of the company’s property business, which the
company postponed earlier this year amid shareholder opposition,
is still “possible,” Chief Financial Officer Pierre Bouchut
said today. He will leave the post from tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  