-- 
CEOs Earned More Than U.S. Companies’ Tax Bills, Study Finds

-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 
2011-08-31T23:24:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/ceos-earned-more-than-their-companies-tax-bills-study-finds.html
Twenty-five of the best-paid chief
executive officers in the U.S. earned more in salary and other
compensation in 2010 than their companies’ federal income tax
expenses as disclosed in public filings, according to a  report 
by the  Institute for Policy Studies .  The Washington-based nonprofit group’s report, released
today, examined 100 publicly traded U.S. corporations with the
highest-paid CEOs. It found that companies whose CEOs’
compensation exceeded reported tax expense in 2010 had average
global profits of $1.9 billion.  Companies in this group, according to the report, included
Cablevision Systems Corp., EBay Inc., Verizon Communications
Inc. and Boeing Co. In fact, some companies that rewarded their
CEOs with seven-figure compensation were getting money back from
the government.  According to the report, Cablevision CEO  James Dolan  earned
$13.2 million in 2010 while the Bethpage, New York-based company
had a $3 million corporate income tax benefit. Verizon CEO Ivan Seidenberg earned $18.1 million while the New York-based company
had a $705 million tax benefit.  EBay CEO John J. Donahoe was paid $12.4 million and the  San
Jose , California-based company collected a $131 million tax
benefit.  Tax Expense, Payments  The tax expense reported in annual financial statements can
differ from actual tax payments, which are confidential, for a
variety of reasons.  The institute said its findings underscore the need for an
overhaul of the U.S. tax code that would reduce the number of
tax strategies available to companies, especially their ability
to lower tax payments by parking profits overseas.  “ Tax reform  has to close up some of these loopholes and
the offshore system,” Chuck Collins, one of the report’s
authors, said in an interview. “We might be able to lower the
overall corporate rate by broadening the base.”  Eighteen of the 25 companies mentioned in the report
operated subsidiaries in countries known as offshore  tax havens ,
Collins said.  Legislation proposed by SenatorCarl Levin, a  Michigan 
Democrat, would eliminate many of the tax-avoidance practices
used by companies in the study, Collins said.  “Businesses and CEOs shouldn’t be rewarded for so
aggressively avoiding their responsibility to pay taxes,” he
said.  Representative Elijah Cummings of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform, in a letter dated yesterday asked panel chairman  Darrell Issa , a California Republican, to hold a hearing on CEO
compensation.  ‘Growing Disparities’  In the  letter , Cummings urged the panel to “examine in
detail why CEO pay and corporate profits are skyrocketing while
worker pay stagnates and unemployment remains unacceptably high,
as well as the extent to which our tax code may be encouraging
these growing disparities.”  The institute’s list includes Dow Chemical Co., which has
its headquarters in Midland, Michigan, in a district represented
in Congress by Representative  Dave Camp , the chairman of the
tax-writing Ways and Means Committee.  Dow reported paying its CEO  Andrew Liveris  $17.7 million
and collecting a tax benefit of $576 million in 2010, according
to the study.  Dow spokeswoman Rebecca Bentley said in a statement that
the report is “misleading.” She said Dow was not taxed on its
U.S. operations in 2010 because the company was not profitable
in the U.S. in that year.  ‘Selective’ Analysis  “While we take significant issue with the selective nature
of his analysis, we agree with the author’s assertion that
significant, thoughtful changes to the U.S.  tax code  are
overdue,” Bentley said in the statement.  Camp wants to lower the overall corporate tax rate from 35
to 25 percent. He has said that would require reducing or
eliminating tax breaks used by companies to lower their tax
obligations.  Camp has not said which breaks he would curb to achieve a
lower overall rate.  Twenty of the 25 companies on the institute’s list reported
spending more on lobbying Congress than they did on federal tax
payments, the organization said.  Data for the report was taken from annual securities
filings and other public filings. The institute’s website says
it works to promote a society based on “justice, nonviolence,
sustainability and decency.”  The report echoes some elements of a study released in May
by  Citizens for Tax Justice , a Washington-based nonprofit group
backed by labor unions, which said 11 U.S. corporations reported
$62 billion in domestic profits while paying a negative 3.6
percent  tax rate  in 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  