-- 
Cerberus, Chatham Face October Trial in Innkeepers Lawsuit Over Hotel Deal

-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h   a n d   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 
2011-08-31T18:23:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/cerberus-chatham-face-october-trial-in-innkeepers-lawsuit-1-.html
Cerberus Capital Management LP and
 Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  will face an Oct. 10 trial over their
backing out of a deal to buy hotels from  Innkeepers USA Trust , a
bankrupt operator of Residence Inns, Marriott hotels and Hampton
Inns.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley C. Chapman in  Manhattan  set
the expedited trial schedule today. Innkeepers sued Cerberus and
Chatham Aug. 29 seeking to force them to honor the deal to buy
64 hotels or pay damages.  The approved Chapter 11 plan by the operator of 71 hotels
rested on the sale. Cerberus and Chatham said Aug. 22 they’d
ended the $1.1 billion agreement, citing a possible adverse
change that could affect Innkeepers’ long-term business. They
didn’t say what the change was.  “It’s a fairly well circumscribed issue” over whether
there was a legitimate material adverse change, Chapman said
today.  Innkeepers, whose parent is managed by an affiliate of  Leon Black ’s private-equity firm Apollo Global Management LLC, filed
for bankruptcy in July 2010 with a pre-arranged reorganization
plan proposed by Apollo and Lehman Ali, a unit of bankrupt
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., which was rejected by creditors.  Won Auction  Cerberus, a  New York  private-equity firm, and Chatham, a
 Palm Beach , Florida-based hotel investment company, later won an
auction to acquire the 64 hotels after topping a $970.7 million
offer from Lehman Ali and Five Mile Capital Partners. Cerberus
today agreed to lift a Sept. 15 termination date on the offer.  Innkeepers said in court papers there has been no change in
its business since a binding agreement was signed May 16 and
that market volatility is irrelevant.  “Cerberus to date has been unable to tell us what the
material adverse effect is,” Daniel T. Donovan, a lawyer for
Innkeepers, told Chapman today. “There has been none.”  “You’re welcome to take away some of the mystery if you
want to explain either on the record or off the record” the
material adverse change, Chapman said to Adam C. Harris, a
lawyer for Cerberus, who didn’t explain what Cerberus sees as
the change.  Earlier today, Innkeepers filed a motion asking Chapman to
change the confirmed Chapter 11 plan so the liquidating trust
for creditors, including Lehman Ali and Midland Loan Services
Inc., won’t take control of the disposition of the 64 hotels.  Confirmed Plan  It also asked Chapman to modify the plan so only the
company, Lehman Ali and Midland can prevent the confirmed plan
from exploding. The motion also seeks an extension until Jan. 19
of Innkeepers’ exclusive right to propose a plan.  The two sides disagree about whether the only remedy open
to Innkeepers is to keep Cerberus and Chatham’s $20 million
deposit.  “The company has no basis to seek either specific
performance or damages beyond the deposit,” Cerberus and
Chatham said in a statement.  The attempt to terminate the deal is a “calculated effort
to apply leverage” to renegotiate the terms, Innkeepers said in
a statement.  The material adverse change clause in Innkeepers’ agreement
allowed Cerberus and Chatham to pull out of the deal for “any
condition, change or development that could reasonably be
expected to have a material adverse effect on the business,
assets, liabilities or operations, condition or prospect” of
Innkeepers, according to court papers.  Legal Disputes  The generalizations of such clauses can lead to legal
disputes, as in the bankruptcy of Solutia Inc. The plastics
maker was close to exiting bankruptcy in February 2008 during
the credit crunch when lenders cited a material adverse change
clause to pull out of a deal to fund a $2 billion loan.
Citigroup Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Deutsche Bank AG
ended up settling with Solutia after a four-day trial in
 bankruptcy court , and funding a revised loan.  Cerberus’s contention that something unspecified is wrong
with Innkeepers’ business is hurting its ability to reorganize,
Donovan of Kirkland & Ellis LLP in  Washington  said in court
today.  “We can’t have that out there and continue our case,” he
told Chapman. “Our performance has been good. We’ve met or
exceeded budget.”  Substantial Amounts  “We know they’ve received offers for substantial amounts
of money for these assets,” said Harris of Schulte Roth & Zabel
LLP in New York.  Innkeepers, based in Palm Beach, has 71 extended-stay and
limited-service properties with 10,000 rooms in 20 states.
Chatham owns properties under Hilton brands including DoubleTree
and Hampton Inn, and Marriott brands including Courtyard and
Residence Inn, according to its website.  Innkeepers’ initial Chapter 11 petition listed assets of
$1.5 billion against debt totaling $1.52 billion.  The case is In re Innkeepers USA Trust, 10-13800,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thom Weidlich in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Manhattan at 
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net ;
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 