-- 
Chelsea May Offer $49 Million for Ribery, Sun Says: Roundup

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-08-31T08:59:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/chelsea-may-offer-49-million-for-ribery-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Ribery  London  Bound?  Chelsea may offer Bayern Munich as much as 30 million
pounds ($49 million) for Franck Ribery before the transfer
period ends today, the  Sun  reported.  Blues manager Andre Villas-Boas has turned his attention
to the Frenchman after failing to land Tottenham midfielder Luka Modric, the Sun said. Bayern is asking 36 million pounds for
Ribery, who is the top earner in Germany with four years left on
his 180,000 pounds-a-week contract, the paper said.  Hargreaves Bid  Manchester City has offered  Manchester United  and former
England player Owen Hargreaves a one-year contract, the  Guardian 
reported.  Hargreaves, 30, is a free agent after being released by
United at the end of last season. He’s struggled with injuries
the past four years, but City bosses are convinced they can
resurrect his career.  Chelsea Signing  Chelsea last night struck a 20-million-pound deal for Porto
wingback  Alvaro Pereira , the  Daily Mirror  reported.  The 25-year-old played alongside Liverpool star  Luis Suarez 
in Uruguay’s Copa America victory.  Spurs Chasing Cahill  Tottenham Hotspur is in the running for Bolton defender
Gary Cahill after Arsenal pulled out of the bidding, the  Daily
Mirror  reported.  Tottenham’s initial offer of David Bentley and Sebastian
Bassong plus cash has been rejected by Bolton boss Owen Coyle,
who is holding out for 17 million pounds cash for Cahill, the
paper said.  Fulham Additions  Fulham has agreed to a 10.6 million deal for FC Twente’s
Bryan Ruiz, while Marseille striker Andre Pierre will join the
west London club on a season loan, the  Daily Mail  reported.  QPR Targets  Queens Park Rangers manager Neil Warnock is trying to sign
Sunderland’s Anton Ferdinand and  Manchester City ’s Shaun Wright- Phillips in a deal worth 10 million pounds, the  Sun  reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 