-- 
Chevron Wins $96 Million for 1990s Ecuador Oil Dispute

-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 
2011-08-31T21:02:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/chevron-awarded-96-million-for-1990s-ecuador-oil-export-dispute.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, said it won a $96 million judgment against
Ecuador in an international arbitration case stemming from a
1990s oil-export dispute with the Latin American nation.  The ruling by the Permanent Court of Arbitration in  The
Hague  resolved seven commercial claims over crude sales by the
Ecuadorian government from 1991 to 1993 from wells operated by
Texaco Inc., Kent Robertson, a spokesman for the  San Ramon ,
California-based company, said today in a telephone interview.  Ecuador overstated domestic crude demand to boost its share
of production from the Texaco-operated wells, and then sold the
oil on the international market, depriving Texaco of profits,
Robertson said. Texaco was acquired by Chevron in 2001.  “ Ecuador  rejects the final sentence given by the
arbitration court and considers that it has no legal validity
and represents a grave injustice,” Diego Garcia, Ecuador’s
attorney general, said today to reporters in  Quito .  Garcia said the panel didn’t have jurisdiction to decide
the case because a bilateral investment treaty between the U.S.
and Ecuador wasn’t in effect when Texaco quit the country.  Ecuador plans to ask a district court in the Netherlands
within 90 days to invalidate the arbitration ruling, Garcia said.
Ecuador is prepared to appeal the case all the way to the
Netherlands’s highest court, he said.  In a separate case, Chevron is awaiting a ruling from the
Permanent Court of Arbitration on whether it’s liable for
environmental damage in Ecuador’s Amazon River basin. The
company was ordered in February by an Ecuadorian court to pay
$18 billion in damages and penalties for chemical-laden
wastewater dumped in the river when Texaco operated there from
1964 to 1992.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Carroll in  Chicago  at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 