-- 
China Stocks Fall, Capping Biggest Monthly Drop Since May on Tight Credit

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-31T07:45:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/china-stocks-fall-head-for-biggest-monthly-drop-since-may-on-tight-credit.html
Most Chinese stocks fell, driving
the benchmark index to its biggest monthly loss since May, as
smaller companies slumped on speculation tighter credit will
curb earnings growth and U.S. consumer confidence declined.  Baoshan Iron & Steel Co. slid to a one-week low after
first-half profit dropped. Shanghai Kaibao Pharmaceutical Co.
and Hangzhou Silan Microelectronics Co. led declines for small
companies after  China  Business News reported up to 70 percent of
small and medium-sized enterprises may not survive. Banks
rebounded, led by Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  “The stock market hasn’t shown signs of bottoming out and
may continue to head downward for the short term,” said Yan Ji,
investment director at HSBC Jintrust Fund Management Co., which
manages $1.6 billion. “Investors should be cautious given the
central bank’s determination to tighten monetary policy to fight
inflation.”  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, added 0.75 points, or less than 0.1
percent, to 2,567.34 at the 3 p.m. close, paring this month’s
drop to 5 percent. About seven stocks fell for every five that
rose on the gauge. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  gained 0.2 percent to
2,846.78.  The Shanghai gauge has dropped 8.6 percent this year as the
central bank raised  interest rates  five times and ordered
lenders to set aside more cash as deposit reserves 12 times
since the start of 2010 to contain inflation. It is valued at
11.8 times estimated earnings, compared with a record low of
11.6 times set on Aug. 22, according to daily data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Smallcaps Slump  The China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing is
scheduled to release a manufacturing index for August at 9 a.m.
tomorrow. The gauge is expected to rise to 51 from 50.7 a month
earlier, according to a Bloomberg survey. A reading above 50
indicates an expansion.  The ChiNext index of start-up companies slid for a second
day after the central bank ordered lenders to set aside more
reserves against margin deposits, boosting speculation liquidity
will tighten. The ChiNext lost 1.4 percent while the index for
Shenzhen small and medium enterprises fell 0.6 percent.  The China Business News cited Gu Shengzu, a vice chairman
at the National People Congress’s internal and judicial affairs
committee, as saying only about 10 percent of the small- and
medium-sized companies are able to get loans from the standard
banking system. These companies generate about 60 percent of
China’s gross domestic product, according to BNP Paribas SA.  A gauge of technology companies retreated 0.6 percent, the
most among the 10 industry groups in the CSI 300. The health-
care measure slipped 0.2 percent. Shanghai Kaibao Pharmaceutical
dropped 2.9 percent to 27.98 yuan. Shenzhen Glory Medical Co., a
maker of medical equipment, fell 2.3 percent to 31.40 yuan.
Hangzhou Silan Microelectronics slid 1.4 percent to 15.30 yuan.  Growth Concerns  Baoshan Steel, the listed unit of China’s second-biggest
steelmaker, fell 0.8 percent to 5.29 yuan. Its first-half profit
dropped 37 percent because of slowing demand from automakers and
rising prices of  iron ore  and coal.  Chinese publicly traded companies conclude reporting semi-
annual earnings today. Shanghai Composite companies reported an
average 24 percent increase in first-half profit, slowing from a
gain of 37 percent from last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. They beat analysts’ estimates by 3.4 percent on
average, the data showed.  ICBC, the nation’s biggest listed lender, rose 1 percent to
4.14 yuan. China Construction Bank Corp., the second largest,
added 1.1 percent to 4.59 yuan. China Minsheng Banking Corp.,
the nation’s first privately owned bank, climbed 1.2 percent to
5.99 yuan.  Consumer Stocks  China’s inflation rate may slow to 6 percent in August as
prices have peaked, according to Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.
Price increases for seafood and pork eased this month,  Li Huiyong  and Meng Xiangjuan, analysts at the brokerage, wrote in
a report today. Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent in July, the
fastest pace in three years. The August inflation figure is due
Sept. 9.                Investors should avoid industries with overcapacity and
excess inventories, including metals, automobiles and auto
parts, said HSBC Jintrust’s Yan. He favors consumer staples
producers as the government encourages domestic spending to
offset a potential slump in exports.  Wuliangye Yibin Co., China’s second-biggest maker of white
liquor by market value, climbed 2.5 percent to 40.40 yuan after
the second-biggest producer of baijiu liquor said it will
increase prices for its products by 20 percent to 30 percent
starting Sept. 10.  China’s stock market has lost $353 billion in market value
since the benchmark index reached this year’s high on April 18,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The market’s losses
escalated this month after the U.S. was stripped of the AAA
credit rating and the European debt crisis fueled speculation
global economic growth had stalled.  --Zhang Shidong. Editor: Allen Wan  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3040 or
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  