-- 
China Pushing for Binding S. China Sea Code, Aquino Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-09-01T11:00:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/china-wants-binding-conduct-code-in-s-china-sea-aquino-says.html
Philippine President  Benigno Aquino 
said  China  is pushing for a legally binding code of conduct in
the South China Sea, a move that may reduce confrontations in
the waters claimed by several countries.  China wants clear rules for operating in the seas that go
further than the non-binding guidelines they agreed to at a July
meeting with Southeast Asian nations in Bali,  Indonesia , Aquino
said after meeting with President Hu Jintao. China’s official
Xinhua News Agency cited the Chinese leader as saying disputes
in the waters should be resolved peacefully.  “It’s significant that they will be pushing for that
code,” Aquino told reporters in Beijing last night. “Not just
as a statement of principle, but rather a binding agreement as
to how each and every party in the dispute will conduct
themselves.”  China has used patrol vessels in recent months to thwart
efforts by  Vietnam  and the Philippines, a U.S. treaty ally, to
explore for oil and gas in the South China Sea. U.S. Secretary
of State  Hillary Clinton  warned in July that increased
confrontations in the area are a threat to sea lanes that are
“absolutely essential” to world trade.  “I don’t think China is going to make such a major
concession anytime in the near future,” said Arthur Ding, a
research fellow at the Institute of International Relations in
 Taiwan . “Minor friction is likely to continue.”  ‘Entering Chinese Waters’  India ’s Foreign Ministry today denied a Financial Times
report that said a Chinese warship confronted an Indian navy
vessel after it left Vietnamese waters in the  South China Sea  in
late July. A caller identifying himself as “Chinese Navy”
contacted India’s INS Airavat and stated “you are entering
Chinese waters,” the ministry said.  “No ship or aircraft was visible from INS Airavat, which
proceeded on her onward journey as scheduled,” the statement
said, adding that the incident took place 45 nautical miles from
the Vietnamese coast. “There was no confrontation.”  China received no diplomatic protest over any naval
incident, said Foreign Affairs Ministry spokesman  Ma Zhaoxu  in
response to questions about the report at a regular briefing
today in Beijing. He said he has made inquiries about the report
but has no information on any incident.  Chinese vessels in May sliced cables of a survey ship doing
work for Vietnam, the second such incident in a month. In March,
Chinese ships chased away a vessel working for U.K.-based  Forum
Energy Plc (FEP)  off the Philippines.  ‘Properly Handle’  “Previous to this, all of those incidents with us and
Vietnam made people pause,” Aquino said yesterday. The
sentiment in the meeting with Hu was that it’s time for “an
actual code of conduct that guides everybody as to how to behave
within these disputed territories.”  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  told Aquino during a meeting in
Beijing today both governments must “properly handle the
disagreements between us.”  China and the 10-member Association of Southeast Asian
Nations agreed in July to a framework for implementing a 2002
agreement on behavior in the sea. That  document  calls on
signatories to avoid occupying disputed islands, inform others
of military exercises and resolve territorial disputes
peacefully.  China’s claims to most of the sea are disputed by the
 Philippines , Vietnam,  Malaysia , Taiwan and Brunei. In a 1988
skirmish over the Spratly islands, China killed more than 70
Vietnamese troops and sank several ships, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  Joint Development  China is open to jointly developing energy resources in the
sea, Ma said today. Vietnam and the Philippines have rejected
China’s map of the sea as a basis for cooperating to exploit the
resources.  The Philippines, with an economy about 1/30th the size of
China’s, plans to boost hydrocarbon reserves by 40 percent in
the next two decades to reduce its almost total reliance on
imports, according to a department of energy  plan . Mineral fuels
accounted for 17 percent of total monthly imports on average
last year, from 11 percent in 2000, data compiled by Bloomberg
show.  Vietnam’s domestic gas demand is  set to triple  by 2025,
according to World Bank estimates.  Chinese studies suggest the waters sit atop more than 14
times estimates of its oil reserves and 10 times those for gas.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  