-- 
China’s Shoppers Sling a Gucci ‘Lifeline’ to Faltering Hong Kong Economy

-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 
2011-08-31T04:30:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/china-s-shoppers-sling-a-gucci-lifeline-to-faltering-hong-kong-economy.html
Queuing outside a Louis Vuitton shop
in  Hong Kong , Lin Shasha says she’s visiting from Shenzhen to
buy leather belts and handbags because the products are genuine
and her yuan goes further.  Lin, 30, is among the millions of Chinese visitors driving
a retail-sales boom in Hong Kong even as weakness in global
demand threatens to tip the city into its second recession in
three years. A 25 percent increase in sales for the first seven
months was the biggest since data began in 1981, the statistics
department said in an e-mail yesterday.  Tourists from China are “a crucial lifeline for Hong
Kong’s economy,” said Donna Kwok, a Hong Kong-based economist
at HSBC Holdings Plc. “Hong Kong shoppers seem immune to
inflation and global financial market turmoil.”  A stream of customers in Tsim Sha Tsui’s Canton Road
yesterday carrying bags of Vivienne Westwood, Gucci and Burberry
brand products and speaking in Mandarin, showed that a $350
billion decline in the value of stocks in  China  since mid-April
has failed to kill off the tourist trade. Their spending may
help to limit what Morgan Stanley and Daiwa Capital Markets say
is set to be a second straight quarterly contraction in Hong
Kong’s economy.  In July, sales jumped 29 percent to HK$35.2 billion ($4.5
billion), also a record gain excluding January and February
figures that are distorted by a Lunar New Year holiday. Sales of
jewelry, watches and clocks soared 52 percent from a year
earlier. For electronics, the increase was 65 percent.  Spending Power  Besides the increase in the value of sales, volumes also
rose by records in the first seven months and in July alone,
excluding the seasonal distortions, the government says.  A gain in the past two years of about 8 percent in the
yuan against Hong Kong’s dollar, which is pegged to the U.S.
currency, has boosted the spending power of shoppers from
China. Some of those visitors, including Lin, say that items
in Hong Kong are less likely than in China to be counterfeit. 
In addition, buyers avoid the Chinese government's taxes on 
 luxury goods .  The number of visitors from China surged 33 percent to 2.68
million last month from a year earlier, Hong Kong Tourism Board
figures show.  Visitors from China staying one night or more spent an
average of HK$7,453 ($956) each per trip last year, the highest
amount of any group,  according to the Hong Kong Tourism Board.
The nation also provided the top spenders in the same-day
category at HK$2,356 each.  ‘Bullish’ on Gold  Chow Sang Sang Holdings International Ltd. (116) , a Hong Kong-
listed maker and retailer of jewelry, said this month that its
sales of gold ornaments in Hong Kong and China jumped 37 percent
by weight in the first half of the year because of “pervasively
bullish” sentiment even as the price of the metal soared.  Shares of Chow Sang Sang, which operates in Hong Kong,
Macau, China and  Taiwan , are up 41 percent this year, compared
with a 12 percent decline in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)  The
company’s stock rose 3.7 percent as of noon local time.  In  Shanghai , Xu Qing, who coordinates tourist trips to Hong
Kong for Shanghai Jinjang Travel Company, said today that  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  products such as the iPhone and iPad2 are at the top of
clients’ shopping lists because they are available earlier in
the city.  Threat From Inflation  Hong Kong reported its fastest inflation since 1995 in July
as rising rents and food costs and changes to government housing
subsidies boosted the rate to 7.9 percent. HSBC’s Kwok said that
she sees a risk that consumers will “eventually cave in” if
inflation stays high and financial markets are turbulent.  The strength of retail sales in July was “certainly a
surprise” and the numbers for August and September may be
weaker, said Denise Yam, a Hong Kong-based economist for Morgan
Stanley.  At Daiwa, analyst Kevin Lai said yesterday that he
forecasts that the city’s economy will shrink 1.5 percent this
quarter from the previous three months “due to weakening global
demand and intensifying global financial turmoil.”  The technical definition of a recession is two straight
quarters of contraction. In April-through-June, the economy
shrank 0.5 percent from the previous quarter as export growth
slowed.  Lin, who is a saleswoman, emerged from the Louis Vuitton
outlet empty-handed, saying that as a frequent visitor she
wasn’t in a rush to buy and would continue her search elsewhere.  “I know nothing about Hong Kong’s economy, but it seems to
me it must be doing well -- the shops that we visit are always
so crowded.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  