-- 
China Cosco Resumes Ship Payment After Disputes, Owners Say

-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n   a n d   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 
2011-09-01T09:47:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/china-s-cosco-resumes-ship-charter-payments-two-owners-say.html
China Cosco Holdings Co., the state-
controlled sea-cargo group that had ships seized in fee
disputes, has resumed charter payments to  DryShips Inc. (DRYS)  and
 Jinhui Shipping & Transportation Ltd. (JIN) , the shipowners said.  DryShips is receiving payments from Cosco for three vessels
that were previously subject to arbitration, Ziad Nakhleh, chief
financial officer of the Athens-based company, said yesterday.
Jinhui has also received money it was owed, Vice President
Raymond Ching said by phone yesterday. Neither elaborated on how
much was handed over.  Tianjin, China-based Cosco said last week that it had
reached agreements covering 18 different ships, which were
predominately hired in long-term deals agreed to before a plunge
in rates. The company may have failed to win lower fees because
its size and state backing may have made shipowners less willing
to compromise, said Barclays Capital analyst Jon Windham.  “It isn’t the biggest, strongest player that gets out of
these contracts,” he said. “It’s the smaller, weaker players
because they have a credible threat of bankruptcy,” which could
leave shipowners getting nothing, Windham said.  Korea Line Corp., for instance, walked away from a charter
deal with  Hellenic Carriers Ltd. (HCL)  earlier this year as it entered
court receivership. It won a reduction in  rates  in February
2009.  ‘Normal’ Operations  A Cosco spokesman declined to comment when contacted by
phone today. He declined to be identified, citing company
policy. Cosco has previously said that disputes over ships are a
part of “normal” operations.  The shipping line fell 0.5 percent to HK$4.36 at the 4 p.m.
close of trading in  Hong Kong . The benchmark  Hang Seng Index 
advanced 0.3 percent.  Jinhui suffered delays in receiving payments on ships it
leased to Cosco for as long as five years, according to Ching.
The deals were signed in 2007 and 2008 at better rates than the
current market, he said, declining to provide further details.
Jinhui fell 2 percent to 12.5 kroner as of 10:53 a.m. in Oslo
today.  DryShips “has no further issues with counterparties,”
Nakhleh said. The company’s Chief Executive Officer George Economou, who seized at least one Cosco ship, told the Financial
Times last week that he may seize more. Economou had leased
about 18 vessels to Cosco through DryShips and private companies
in deals worth about $500 million, according to the newspaper.  Cosco Losses  China Cosco posted a first-half loss of 2.76 billion yuan
($433 million) after a collapse in rates for carrying
commodities and containers. The company had at least three
vessels arrested in the past two months as shipowners sought
overdue payments, according to court filings in the U.S. and
 Singapore .  In the Singapore case, Cosco had agreed to pay $87,000 a
day to use a capesize vessel. That compares with current rates
of $19,610 a day for a single voyage charter, according to data
from the  Baltic Exchange , a London-based provider of shipping
freight rate assessments.  The Cosco rates disputes is “credit negative” for the
dry-bulk shipping industry, Moody’s Investor Service said in an
e-mailed report Aug. 29. The move may enable Cosco to win lower
payments and it could also prompt other Chinese lines to try
similar steps, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net ;
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  