-- 
China Forestry Resumes Harvesting; Says Investigation Ongoing

-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 
2011-08-31T10:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/china-forestry-resumes-harvesting-says-investigation-ongoing.html
China Forestry Holdings Co.,
a timber supply company partly owned by the  Carlyle Group , said
it has resumed harvesting after irregularities in its accounts
led to a first-half loss and spurred an investigation.  Net loss was 130 million yuan ($20 million), or 0.04 yuan a
share, for the six months ended June 30, compared with net
income of 429.3 million yuan, or 0.14 yuan, a year earlier, the
company said today in a filing to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.  China Forestry disclosed accounting irregularities and
blamed former managers in statements earlier this year. China’s
reputation among investors has been strained in recent months
after short sellers said Chinese companies from Longtop
Financial Technologies Ltd. to Sino-Forest Corp. were
exaggerating operations.  With a new management team, “we have resumed harvesting
activities since August,”  China  Forestry said in the statement.
“A targeted marketing campaign is underway to explore new
markets and gain new customers.”  China Forestry, which has been suspended from trading since
Jan. 26, halted harvesting work in the first half of the year.
The company on July 13 said it would report a first-half net
loss because of “irregularities” in its financial statements
and interest expenses.  The company today said it is still conducting an
investigation.  Cash Balances  China Forestry said it had cash and bank balances of about
1.2 billion yuan as of Aug. 26. Together with financing
facilities, it has the resources to rebuild its business, the
statement said. It has started trading timber logs, it said.  Bank statements provided by former executives to auditor
KPMG LLP were falsified, China Forestry said in its April
filing. Li Han Chun, the former chief executive officer, was
detained in China in February for allegedly embezzling 30
million yuan, the company said.  Li and his personal company engaged in insider dealing when
they sold 119 million shares of China Forestry through a share
placement on Jan. 12,  Hong Kong ’s Securities and Futures
Commission said in a March statement.  China Forestry operates timber lands in southwestern
China’s Sichuan and Yunnan provinces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  