-- 
China Stocks to Extend Slump on Inflation Outlook, HSBC Jintrust Fund Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-31T07:49:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/china-stocks-to-extend-slump-on-inflation-outlook-hsbc-jintrust-fund-says.html
China ’s stocks may extend this
year’s slump as the government maintains policy measures to tame
inflation and corporate profit growth slows, according to HSBC
Holdings Plc’s fund management venture in China.  Investors should avoid industries with overcapacity and
excess inventories, including metals, automobiles and auto
parts, said Yan Ji, investment director at HSBC Jintrust Fund
Management Co., which manages $1.6 billion. Yan favors
technology companies involved in cloud-computing because of
their growth potential and consumer staples producers as the
government encourages domestic spending to offset a potential
slump in exports.  “The stock market hasn’t shown signs of bottoming out and
may continue to head downward for the short term,” Yan said in
an interview at his company’s office in Shanghai on Aug. 29.
“Investors should be cautious given the central bank’s
determination to tighten monetary policy to fight inflation.”  The Shanghai Composite Index has fallen 8.6 percent in
2011, adding to last year’s 14 percent drop, after the central
bank raised  interest rates  five times and ordered lenders to set
aside more cash as deposit reserves 12 times since the start of
2010 to contain inflation.  The government’s Aug. 26 order to lenders to set aside more
reserves on margin deposits shows that the central bank still
regards controlling inflation as its biggest task, Yan said. The
nation’s consumer prices jumped to a three-year high of 6.5
percent last month. Fighting inflation will remain China’s top
priority in the second half of this year and monetary policy
will remain “prudent,” the central bank said in its quarterly
report on Aug. 12.  Internet of Things  Earnings growth for China’s listed companies may slow to 10
percent in 2012 from an estimated 15 percent this year, Yan
said. That compares with a forecast for profit to climb by at
least 20 percent in 2011, Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co. said
in an Aug. 4 report.  Among technology companies, Yan favors companies involved
in cloud computing and the so-called Internet of Things, which
describe  data networks  linking different electronics. Miao Wei,
minister of industry and information technology, said Aug. 23
China will push forward development of the Internet to make
breakthroughs in cloud computing and the Internet of Things.  The global cloud-computing market is expected to increase
to $241 billion in 2020 from $40.7 billion in 2011, according to
Forrester Research Inc. Cloud computing allows people to store
data on remote servers that can be accessed via the Internet.  Consumer staples producers, which performed the best among
the 10 industry groups in the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  this year with an
8.5 percent rally, may extend gains as the government encourages
consumption as part of its plan to bolster the economy over the
next five years, Yan said.  “These companies will benefit from China’s efforts to
boost spending rather than just as a mere inflation hedge,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irene Shen in  Shanghai  at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  