-- 
China May Become Home to Half the Millionaires in 10 Major Asian Economies

-- B y   S a n a t   V a l l i k a p p e n
-- 
2011-09-01T03:52:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/china-to-have-half-of-asia-s-millionaires-by-2015-baer-says.html
China ’s millionaires may account for
about half of the rich people across 10 major economies in  Asia 
and hold more than half of the wealth by 2015, according to a
study by Julius Baer Group and CLSA Asia Pacific Markets.  The millionaires will more than double in number to 2.8
million, with 1.4 million high net worth people in China,
according to a report released yesterday that covered China,
 India , Thailand,  Indonesia , South Korea, Taiwan,  Hong Kong ,
Singapore, the Philippines and Malaysia. Chinese millionaires
will hold $8.76 trillion of the $15.81 trillion that these
countries’ rich are expected to have, it said.  “In terms of the overall amounts of wealth that will
increase, it’s very much a China story,” Stefan Hofer, emerging
market equity strategist at  Julius Baer , said yesterday at a
press conference held in Hong Kong.  China, the world’s fastest-growing major economy, had
502,000 millionaires last year, according to the report. State
and private investments helped drive a 9.5 percent expansion in
second-quarter gross domestic product, the government said in
July, as growth in industrial output and retail sales
accelerated and copper and aluminum production reached records.  Currency Gains  The almost tripling of millionaires’ assets in the 10
nations from $5.6 trillion in 2010 will be also driven by
currency appreciation in the region, adding to the economic
growth and gains in asset values, according to the report. The
currency gains may create 600,000 new high net worth
individuals, or people with more than $1 million of investible
assets excluding their primary residence, by 2015, it said.  The study assumes nominal GDP growth of 14.5 percent a year
for China, combined with a currency appreciation of 5 percent
annually in dollar terms.  India will be the second-biggest market among the 10
economies by 2015, with 403,000 millionaires and a combined $2.5
trillion in wealth, said the report, which excludes  Japan .  South
Korea  will be ranked third, it said.  Julius Baer wants to expand further in the region, said
Thomas Meier, the bank’s chief executive officer for Asia and
the  Middle East . The Swiss private bank aims to have a fourth of
its assets under management in Asia by 2015, he said yesterday.
It now has about 10 percent to 20 percent of its 166 billion
Swiss francs ($206 billion) in the region.  Emerging Markets  Wealth managers are looking to boost allocations to markets
in the Asia-Pacific region in the next 12 months as they expect
higher returns, according to a study by  Scorpio Partnership Ltd. 
in July.  Eighty-four percent of investment professionals at wealth
management companies are planning to invest more in the region,
while 33 percent are considering increasing investments in Latin
America, the Middle East and North Africa, the study showed.
Managers catering to high-net-worth investors are turning to
emerging markets and non-traditional asset classes for returns
while reducing inflationary risks, the Scorpio study said.  The number of millionaires in China grew by 12 percent to
534,500 last year, according to a report by Capgemini SA and
Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management in June. China ranked
fourth in terms of the rich population, trailing the U.S., Japan
and  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sanat Vallikappen in  Singapore  at 
 vallikappen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  