-- 
Companies Promise to Add 6,300 Engineering Internships in 2012

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-31T19:28:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/companies-promise-to-add-6-300-engineering-internships-in-2012.html
A coalition of companies including
Facebook Inc. and JPMorgan Chase & Co. has committed to doubling
the engineering internships they offer next year to create 6,300
new slots for students in the field, according to the White
House.  The commitment by 45 companies was announced by President
Barack Obama’s Council on Jobs and Competitiveness in
partnership with the Business Council, the  Business Roundtable ,
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,  National Association of
Manufacturers  and the American Chemistry Council.  The internships are meant to address an administration goal
of increasing by 10,000 each year the number of engineering
students who graduate from U.S. colleges and universities.  “Today’s announcement is about inspiring and encouraging
our next generation of engineers,”  Intel Corp. (INTC)  Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Otellini , a member of the job’s council, said in a
statement released by the administration. “It’s a private
sector commitment working arm and arm with the government to
accelerate the specialized skills needed for America to retain
its technological pre-eminence.”  Along with Facebook, JPMorgan and Intel, the companies
listed by the White House as taking part are: Alcoa Inc.,
American Express Co., AT&T Inc., Bayer AG, BNSF Railway Co.,
Boeing Co., Broadcom Corp., Cardinal Health Inc., Carus Corp.,
Caterpillar Inc., Conductix-Wampfler, ConAgra Foods Inc., Dell
Inc., Duke Energy Corp., E.I. du Pont de Nemours & Co., Eaton
Corp., Fluor Corp., FMC Technologies Inc., General Electric Co.,
Kawasaki Motors Corp. U.S., Longview Fibre Paper & Packaging
Inc., Lubrizol Corp., Mastercard Inc.  Also, McKesson Corp., MeadWestvaco Corp., Nalco Co.,
NextEra Energy Resources LLC, Nordson Corp., Power Cubers Inc.,
Simon Property Group Inc., Spectra Energy Corp., Special
Products & Manufacturing Inc., Sprint Nextel Corp., Suffolk
Construction Co., Sungard Data Systems Inc., Sunoco Inc.,
Symantec Corp., TE Connectivity Ltd, Tektronix Inc., Textron
Inc., Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc. and Xerox Corp.  Five additional companies agreed to increase their
internship slots as part of the program: Bechtel Corp., Chevron
Corp., PCC Structurals Inc., Johnson & Johnson and Texas
Instruments Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 