-- 
ConocoPhillips Joins Marathon in Surge of Tax-Free Spinoffs

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-08-31T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/conocophillips-joins-marathon-in-surge-of-tax-free-spinoffs.html
Flexible U.S. tax laws and rules are
helping to fuel a surge in U.S. corporate spinoffs, allowing
companies to split apart without taking a tax hit or imposing
one on investors.  This year, companies in the  S&P 500 Index  including  Kraft
Foods Inc. (KFT) ,  El Paso Corp. (EP) , ConocoPhillips and  L-3 Communications
Holdings Inc. (LLL)  have announced plans for tax-free spinoffs.  The ease with which such spinoffs can be completed makes
them an attractive strategy for companies, particularly when
compared with the sale of a subsidiary that could trigger
capital gains taxes, said  Robert Willens , an independent tax
consultant in  New York .  “It becomes pretty simple to conclude that the spinoff is
the best route, because of the tax consequences or the lack of
tax consequences,” he told Bloomberg Government.  The increase in spinoffs this year follows a wave of
corporate consolidation that left companies with subsidiaries
they want to shed. Also, investors often prefer more narrowly
focused companies that can develop expertise in particular
markets.  “There’s generally greater external transparency of the
business performance when the marketplace looks at the pure
plays versus being accomplished” with a consolidated company,
 ConocoPhillips (COP)  CEO James Mulva told analysts on a July 14
conference call to discuss the company’s decision to spin off
its refining and marketing business from its energy-production
company. “There’s more focus and attention, and greater
probability of success.”  60 Spinoffs  So far this year, U.S.-based public companies have
announced 60 spinoffs, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s more than the combined total of 46 for 2009 and 2010. The
largest such deal announced in 2011 that has closed is Marathon
Oil Corp.’s $13.9 billion spinoff of its refining operations,
now known as  Marathon Petroleum Corp. (MPC)   Legal and regulatory changes over the past decade have made
spinoff transactions more routine and easier to achieve without
tax consequences, particularly for large U.S. public companies,
said Gary Wilcox, a partner at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP in
Washington.  Still, completing a spinoff without triggering  capital
gains  taxes for the parent corporation and the shareholders
requires navigating a set of tax rules, which are designed in
part to prevent companies from using a spinoff as a back-door
way of avoiding taxes on a planned sale.  Tax Treatment  In a typical spinoff, a company turns a subsidiary into a
new company, which belongs to its shareholders. The parent
company doesn’t pay taxes on any difference between its
investment in the subsidiary and the deal price, and the
shareholders don’t face tax consequences.  Companies often view spinoffs as a way to make their
operations more efficient or to unlock value in a conglomerate.
In the Kraft deal, announced Aug. 4, the parent company plans to
spin off its North American grocery business, putting Oscar
Mayer meats together with Maxwell House coffee while keeping
them separate from the global snack food business that will
remain the home of Oreo cookies and Trident gum.  Several of the companies pursuing spinoffs, including Kraft
and El Paso, are seeking private letter rulings from the
 Internal Revenue Service  blessing the structure of the deals.  Caveats  Those letters come with caveats. The IRS doesn’t issue
opinions on whether there is a plan for a future purchase of the
spun-off company, whether the spinoff is a technique for
avoiding dividend taxes and whether there is an adequate
business purpose for the transaction.  A 2003 decision by the IRS to include the caveats was
coupled with a decision to provide clearer public guidance on
how to achieve a spinoff, said Wilcox, who was deputy chief
counsel at the IRS at the time.  “Too many resources at the IRS were being used to help
taxpayers make these very detailed factual determinations,” he
said.  That decision to limit the scope of IRS rulings hasn’t
stopped companies from seeking them.  “Because the potential numbers are so great if you blow
it, some folks feel better if they have the time to go get the
ruling, just so they have a piece of paper in the file showing
that the IRS has a piece of paper and blessed it,” Wilcox said.  Mergers  Once the spinoff is completed, the tax issues don’t end for
the parent or the new company. If the spun-off company is
acquired, the IRS may examine whether the merger was part of a
plan that was contemplated during the spinoff process.  The agreements often give a parent company the ability to
limit future acquisitions to prevent unfavorable tax
consequences.  The restrictions on the future purchase of a spun-off
company aren’t as strict as many people think, Willens said. For
example, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc., which completed its
$8.3 billion spinoff from  Motorola Solutions Inc. (MSI)  in January
2011, is now being purchased by  Google Inc. (GOOG)   Willens said the Google-Motorola Mobility merger will be a
“watershed case” on what can happen after a spinoff even in
the period when the IRS will scrutinize transactions more
closely.  “Here you have very good evidence to point to when people
are skeptical how quickly an acquisition can occur,” he said.  The potential tax consequences of failing to complete a
spinoff can be severe. Unlike individuals, corporations don’t
receive a preferential  tax rate  for capital gains.  That causes companies to be particularly cautious about
ensuring they receive a favorable IRS ruling and an unqualified
opinion from tax advisers, said Michael Wilder, a partner at
McDermott, Will & Emery in  Washington .  ‘Betting the Company’  “You’re betting the whole company if you trip up on a
spin,” said Wilder, who reviewed spinoff proposals while at the
IRS.  As a result, several lawyers said they were unaware of any
spinoff transaction announced by a large public company that was
later invalidated by the IRS.  During the process of considering a ruling, IRS officials
can identify whether a proposed financing transaction would
comply with the rules, said Herb Beller, an attorney at
Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP in Washington.  “When you’re going in for a ruling, you typically want to
try to smoke out through a pre-filing conference any potential
issues or problems that might arise,” said Beller, who teaches
a course on spinoffs at Northwestern University Law School in
 Chicago . “If the service is uncomfortable about certain aspects
of the proposed transactions, you often can modify the deal in
ways that ultimately will permit a favorable ruling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  