-- 
Consumers Will Win If AT&T, T-Mobile Deal Is Disconnected: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-31T22:15:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/consumers-will-win-if-at-t-t-mobile-deal-is-disconnected-view.html
Anybody wanting reassurance that the
Justice Department acted wisely in opposing  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s
attempted merger with T-Mobile USA Inc. should spend a few
minutes comparing mobile-phone rates online.  Right now, U.S. consumers enjoy four main choices for
mobile-phone coverage. AT&T and  Verizon Wireless  are the market
leaders, offering the most-prized phones, such as Apple Inc.’s
iPhone. Sprint Corp. and T-Mobile, a division of  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE) , are the smaller players. A fierce battle for
customers’ traffic is being fought every day -- and the public
is benefiting.  T-Mobile is the constant discounter, offering unlimited
texting and voice on smart phones, plus lots of high-speed data,
for $79.99 or $89.99 a month. Other carriers’ rates tend to be
at least 11 percent higher. Even though T-Mobile doesn’t win
every comparison, the boldness of its price-cutting is
undeniable.  What would happen if T-Mobile’s independence went away? In
its public statements, AT&T has said, in essence: “Don’t
worry.” AT&T argues that a merger would promote efficiency and
lead to faster network upgrades. Customers needn’t fret about
pricing, AT&T adds, because mobile-phone charges have been
coming down steadily the past decade.  Actually, there is a lot to worry about. In its lawsuit
seeking to block the merger, the  Justice Department  argued that
combining AT&T and T-Mobile could lead to higher prices, less
product variety and poorer-quality services because of reduced
incentives to invest. Rather than pressing merely for a few
minor changes to the deal, the government wants to block it
entirely.  Intense Rivals  As the Justice Department points out, AT&T and T-Mobile are
rivals in at least 97 of the top 100 U.S. metropolitan areas.
Anyone visiting a mall, picking up a newspaper or surfing the
Web can see this competition in action every day. AT&T’s
internal memos show that T-Mobile has been regarded as a
competitive threat. Such jousting is capitalism at its best.  We aren’t approaching this subject with any populist desire
to stymie big companies simply because they are big. There’s no
need to return to the 1970s-era suspicion of every merger as a
possible restraint of trade. In this case, however, the facts
couldn’t be clearer.  The  airline industry  provides an illustration of what
happens as the number of national competitors shrinks. Capacity
shrinks. Fares go up. Flying lately has become both more
congested and more expensive. In that case, carriers’ brittle
finances may have justified an unusually high level of
concentration, in the interests of economic survival. The
profitable mobile-phone business needs no such indulgence.  Lily Tomlin Skit  Thirty-five years ago, the phone business was largely a
regulated monopoly. Planners ruled, market forces were weak and
innovation was constricted. Such a system was bound to
disappoint consumers in terms of pricing, technological progress
and service. The comedian Lily Tomlin won laughs with one skit
in which she declared: “We don’t care. We don’t have to. We’re
the phone company.”  Investors marked down AT&T’s shares by about 5 percent
yesterday, figuring that the company’s prospects would darken if
the merger doesn’t go through. That snap judgment may prove
wrong. Mobile-phone technology has enormous untapped potential.
The best way to realize those possibilities -- for consumers and
carriers alike -- is to keep the phone business as competitive
as possible.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 