-- 
Copper Rises to Three-Week High as Factory-Order Gain Bolsters Confidence

-- B y   Y i   T i a n   a n d   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-08-31T18:41:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/copper-climbs-for-sixth-day-in-london-trading-on-optimism-for-more-demand.html
Copper climbed to the highest in
more than three weeks after data on U.S. factory orders and
business activity bolstered confidence in the economy.  Orders placed with U.S. factories rose in July by the most
in four months, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington . Business activity expanded in August at a faster
pace than forecast, according to the Institute for Supply
Management-Chicago Inc. The U.S. is the world’s second-biggest
user of copper, after China.  “It looks like all the worst is behind us,”  Michael
Smith , the president of T&K Futures and Options in  Port St.
Lucie , Florida, said today in a telephone interview. “Copper
has made a bottom, and it will be upside from here.”  Copper futures for December delivery rose 6.3 cents, or 1.5
percent, to close at $4.2045 a pound at 1:27 p.m. on the Comex
in  New York . Earlier, the price reached $4.223, the highest for
a most-active contract since Aug. 5.  The metal dropped 6.1 percent this month --and 5.5 percent
for the year -- touching an eight-month low of $3.818 on Aug. 9,
on concern that the global economic recovery is faltering.  “The market’s attention is refocused back on fundamentals,
which for copper are supportive for higher prices,”  Gayle Berry , an analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London, said in a
telephone interview.  Output in Chile, the biggest producer, slumped 18 percent
in July from a year earlier, a report showed yesterday.
Production was curbed by a two-week strike at the country’s
Escondida mine, the world’s largest.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for three-month
delivery rose $115, or 1.3 percent, to $9,275 a metric ton
($4.21 a pound).  Aluminum, lead, zinc, nickel and tin also gained in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yi Tian in New York at 
 ytian8@bloomberg.net ;
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  