-- 
Corn, Wheat Head for Second Monthly Advance as Dry Weather May Curb Crops

-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 
2011-08-31T11:05:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/corn-soy-head-for-second-monthly-gain-on-u-s-output-concerns.html
Corn, wheat and soybeans headed for
a second monthly gain in  Chicago  on speculation dry weather will
damage crops in the U.S., the world’s largest exporter of the
commodities, threatening to curb global supply.  December-delivery corn fell 0.6 percent to $7.7025 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 12:30 p.m. Paris time, trimming
this month’s gain to 15 percent. Soybeans for November delivery
fell 0.3 percent, while headed for a 7 percent gain this month.  Dryness will continue to stress corn and soybean crops in
the Midwest, the largest U.S. growing region, with near to
below-normal rainfall in the next four days, Telvent DTN Inc.
said in a bulletin yesterday. Rainfall in the Southern Plains
will be below normal, the forecaster said.  “Crop conditions in the corn belt have continued to
deteriorate,” Bourges, France-based farm adviser Offre et
 Demande Agricole  said in an e-mailed report today. “Those are
supporting elements in the context of a need to rebuild global
stocks of quality wheat and balance the super-stretched U.S.
corn situation.”  December-delivery wheat slipped 0.8 percent to $7.845 a
bushel in Chicago, trimming the monthly advance to 9.6 percent.
Milling wheat for November delivery traded on NYSE Liffe in
Paris fell 0.4 percent to 210 euros ($304.68) a metric ton,
adding 6.2 percent this month.  Corn Conditions  An estimated 54 percent of U.S. corn was in good or
excellent condition last week, compared with 57 percent a week
earlier as dry Midwest weather hurt the plants, and down from 70
percent a year earlier, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said
Aug. 29.  About 57 percent of the soybeans in the 18 largest growing
states were in good or excellent condition as of Aug. 28, down
from 59 percent a week earlier and 64 percent a year earlier,
according to the USDA report.  Chicago corn futures have advanced 23 percent this year,
the fifth-best performance among the Standard & Poor’s GSCI
gauge for 24 commodities. Soybeans have climbed 3.6 percent and
wheat futures are down 1.2 percent on CBOT. Paris wheat futures
have slumped 17 percent since the start of the year.  “Corn continues to benefit from a very tight balance sheet
and an outlook for downward revisions of yields,” Paris-based
farm adviser Agritel said.  Rough rice for November delivery advanced 0.9 percent to
$17.84 for 100 pounds, the highest price for a most-active
contract on the Chicago Board of Trade since Oct. 2008. Futures
are up 11 percent this month, and 25 percent this year.  Thailand , the world’s biggest rice exporter, will begin
buying rice from farmers at above-market prices in mid-October,
instead of November, the government said today.  The Thai plan, together with a U.S. rice harvest that is
forecast to slump 20 percent and rising import demand, may push
the regional benchmark export price up 22 percent to $750 a ton,
according to a Bloomberg survey of exporters, traders and
millers last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in  Singapore  at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net 
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net 
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 