-- 
Corporate Bond Risk Falls in Europe, Credit-Default Swaps Show

-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s
-- 
2011-09-07T09:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/corporate-bond-risk-falls-in-europe-credit-default-swaps-show.html
Bank and sovereign credit-default
swap indexes retreated from records in  Europe  as investors bet
on renewed U.S. economic stimulus and a German court approved
the country’s participation in euro area rescue funds.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index of swaps on the senior
debt of 25 banks and insurers dropped 11 basis points to 262,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. at 10 a.m. in London. The
Market iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of swaps linked to 15
governments fell 13 basis points to 314.  President  Barack Obama  is seeking to spark job growth by
injecting more than $300 billion into the  U.S. economy  next
year, as unemployment remains above nine percent. The German
ruling clears the way for a release of renewed aid for  Greece  as
the crisis that started in that country spreads.  “It takes a significant market correction to alert the
politicians to the dangers we’re facing,” said Greg Venizelos,
a strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London. “We’re moving to the
point of a coordinated effort to stimulate global growth.”  Three constitutional challenges to  Germany ’s participation
in the euro rescue funds were rejected by the nation’s top
court. The Federal Constitutional Court in Karlsruhe threw out
suits targeting Germany’s share of the 110 billion euros ($155
billion) in loans for Greece as well a separate 750 billion-
euro rescue fund approved last year.  Financial Gauge  Greece said today it will accelerate austerity measures
pledged in return for international financing as pressure
mounted from European partners before the payment of a sixth
tranche of bailout loans.  “Greece isn’t a pariah in the European Union or an open
wound,” Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos said from  Athens 
on state-run NET Radio. “Greece is an equal member of the
European Union with deficit and debt problems. Greece can
overcome these problems with these reforms.”  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to subordinated
debt tumbled 18 basis points to 469.5, JPMorgan prices show. The
cost of insuring debt sold by Greece, Italy, Belgium and  France 
also retreated from records set this week.  Contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 40
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings dropped 35 basis
points to 724. The index is a benchmark for the cost of
protecting bonds against default and a decline signals improved
perceptions of  credit quality .  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings fell 8.25 basis points to 176.5 basis
points.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($14.1 million) of debt from default for five
years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abigail Moses in  London  at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  