-- 
Cotton Gains on North Carolina Crops Losses; Orange Juice Rises

-- B y   M a r v i n   P e r e z
-- 
2011-08-31T19:42:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/cotton-gains-on-north-carolina-crops-losses-orange-juice-rises.html
Cotton futures advanced for a fourth
straight session as Hurricane Irene damaged crops in  North
Carolina , further limiting supplies from the U.S., the world’s
biggest exporter. Orange juice gained.  Irene caused “very significant” damage to farms in
Virginia and North Carolina, the fourth-biggest cotton-producing
state, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said yesterday. The
commodity rose 4 percent in August as the worst drought in more
than 100 years scorched fields in Texas, the top U.S. grower.  “What we’ve heard about Irene’s impact on North Carolina
is still anecdotal, but that has lent support,” Gary Raines, an
economist and analyst for FCStone LLC in Nashville, Tennessee,
said in a telephone interview.  Cotton for December delivery rose 0.39 cent, or 0.4
percent, to settle at $1.0581 a pound at 2:30 p.m. on ICE
Futures U.S. in New York. Prices dropped have 27 percent this
year.  “Demand remains soft, and countries like  India  are still
offering cotton at prices below those seen in the U.S.,”  Jack Scoville , a vice president at Price Futures Group in Chicago,
said in an e-mail.  Production in India, the biggest grower after  China , may
jump 9 percent to a record for a second year, Textiles
Commissioner A.B. Joshi said yesterday. Rising output may lead
the government to allow more exports next year, said Parth
Mehta, joint managing director of Bhadresh Trading Corp., the
country’s biggest exporter.  Orange-juice futures for November delivery rose 1.2 cents,
or  0.8 percent, to $1.588 a pound on ICE. The commodity
declined 21 percent this month and is down 2.9 percent percent
in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marvin Perez in  New York  at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  