-- 
Canadian Stocks Retreat as Energy, Consumer Companies Decline

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-09-01T20:40:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/crescent-point-energy-duluth-metals-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks fell for the first
time in five days as consumer-discretionary and energy shares
dropped on concern that the economic recovery is faltering.  Crescent Point Energy Corp. (CPG) , a western Canadian oil and gas
producer, declined 2.1 percent after saying it will sell shares.
 Shaw Communications Inc. (SJR/B) ,  Canada ’s biggest cable and satellite
television provider by subscribers, slumped 3.6 percent after
saying it won’t build a traditional wireless telephone network.
 Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  gained 1.5 percent after reporting profit
that beat the average analyst estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  The Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index slipped 67.96
points, or 0.5 percent, to 12,700.74. The S&P/TSX advanced as
much as 0.2 percent earlier after the Institute for Supply
Management said U.S. manufacturing expanded in August.  “You can talk all you want about the ISM,” Gareth Watson,
vice president of investment management and research at
Richardson GMP Ltd. in Toronto, said in a telephone interview.
“But the credit picture has not changed. The monetary picture
in the U.S. has not changed. So even if we get a couple of good
data points, the market is not going to rally back to where we
were before.”  The S&P/TSX lost 1.4 percent last month for its sixth-
straight monthly retreat, the longest slump since the 2008-2009
 bear market . The stock benchmark fell 9.7 percent from Feb. 28
to yesterday as energy companies tumbled on concern about a
slowing global recovery and sovereign debt in Europe and the
U.S.  Employment Report  The U.S. is scheduled to release monthly employment data
tomorrow. The report will show the country added less than one-
fourth as many jobs last month as it did in July, economists at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. forecast today.  Energy stocks retreated as natural gas futures decreased
0.4 percent after soaring 3.7 percent yesterday. Cooling demand
in the U.S. may be 22 percent below normal from Sept. 7 through
Sept. 11, said  David Salmon , a meteorologist at Weather
Derivatives in Belton,  Missouri , in a note to clients today.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-
largest energy company by market value, lost 2 percent to
C$36.26. Oil-sands developer  MEG Energy Corp. (MEG)  slumped 2.8
percent to C$45.76. Crescent Point fell 2.1 percent to C$43.52.
after saying it will sell 8.63 million shares at C$43.50 a
share.  Shaw slid 3.6 percent to C$21.59 after scrapping plans to
build a mobile-phone service. The company, based in Calgary,
will instead offer a wireless Internet service using Wi-Fi
technology. Peter MacDonald, an analyst at GMP Capital Inc., cut
his rating on Shaw to “hold” from “buy.”  Auto-Parts Maker  Magna International Inc. (MG) , Canada’s largest auto-parts
maker, slipped 3.1 percent to C$36.05 as its largest customer,
General Motors Co., tumbled 4.2 percent. In a note to clients,
Adam Jonas, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, said GM’s inventory
may be too high if U.S. auto sales don’t recover.  TD said third-quarter profit increased 23 percent from a
year earlier and raised its quarterly dividend 3 percent to 68
Canadian cents a share. Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce,  Bank
of Montreal (BMO) , National Bank of Canada and Bank of Nova Scotia
topped analysts’ estimates this quarter, while  Royal Bank of
Canada (RY)  missed forecasts. TD gained 1.5 percent to C$78.60 today.  Other banks declined after the S&P/TSX Banks Index had
surged 4.5 percent in the previous three days. Royal Bank,
Canada’s largest lender by assets, fell 2 percent to C$49.10.
Bank of Montreal, the No. 4 bank, dropped 1.1 percent to
C$60.71.  Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) , Canada’s largest insurer,
slipped 1.8 percent to C$13.15.  Gold Outlook  Gold stocks advanced after  Barclays Capital  said the metal
is unlikely to plunge like silver did in May when CME Group Inc.
raised margin requirements. Margin requirements as a percentage
of the contract value of gold are below that for commodities
including silver and corn, and gold is less volatile than
silver, Barclays said today in an e-mailed report.  Also today, David Wilson, a metals analyst at Societe
Generale SA, said in a Bloomberg Television interview that the
metal is poised to top $2,000 an ounce by year end.  Goldcorp Inc. (G) , the world’s second-largest gold producer by
market value, increased 2.2 percent to C$52.13.  Eldorado Gold
Corp. (ELD) , which mines in  China  and  Turkey , climbed 2.1 percent to
C$19.91.  Osisko Mining Corp. (OSK) , which began commercial production
at its Malartic mine in  Quebec  in June, rallied 3.1 percent to
C$14.76 after Don MacLean, an analyst at Paradigm Capital Inc.,
boosted his rating on the shares to “buy” from “speculative
buy.”  Lumber producer Canfor Corp. slumped 6.2 percent to C$10.13
after the U.S. said construction spending fell the most in six
months in July.  Ivanhoe Mines Ltd., which is building a copper and gold
mine in  Mongolia  with Rio Tinto Group, dropped 4.5 percent to
C$21.50 after surging 15 percent in the previous four days.
Copper futures declined the most in two weeks after a gauge of
export orders in the Chinese Purchasing Managers’ Index
decreased for the first time in two years.  -- With assistance from Craig Trudell in  Detroit , Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto, Christine Buurma and Debarati Roy in  New
York  and  Nicholas Larkin  in  London . Editors: Stephen Kleege,
Nick Baker  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  