-- 
Crisis Threat Gains Influence Over U.S. Stock Volatility: Chart of the Day

-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/crisis-threat-gains-influence-over-u-s-stock-volatility-chart-of-the-day.html
“Crisis mentality” has become so
widespread that swings in U.S. stocks are attributable mainly to
the level of investor concern, according to James W. Paulsen,
chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the relationship between
changes in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the Bloomberg
U.S. Financial Conditions Index, a gauge derived from values in
the money, bond and equity markets. The data are based on daily
moves during the preceding 12 months.  The so-called coefficient of determination climbed two days
ago to 0.79, the highest in the 17 years of history available
for Bloomberg’s index. This meant that the financial-conditions
index’s gains and losses would explain 79 percent of the  S&P
500 ’s performance.  “This intense crisis focus leaves little room for
investors to base stock valuations on fundamentals,” such as
earnings and sales, Paulsen, who is based in  Minneapolis , wrote
two days ago in a report that included a similar chart. That
explains why the S&P 500 isn’t trading at a higher multiple of
earnings, he added.  Yesterday’s close for the index equaled 12.2 times this
year’s projected earnings for the S&P 500, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. A ratio of 16 times earnings would be
more in line with yields on 10-year Treasury notes and profit
growth for companies in the  stock index , according to Paulsen.  “As the culture slowly turns away from an imminent
expectation of crisis and focuses again more on fundamentals,
the valuations applied to the stock market should rise
substantially,” he wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in New York at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  