-- 
Cuba Mutual Fund Jumps Most in Three Weeks After Report on Castro’s Health

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-08-31T20:59:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/cuba-mutual-fund-climbs-on-report-fidel-castro-s-health-is-deteriorating.html
The Herzfeld Caribbean Basin Fund, a
closed-end mutual fund that aims to profit from a resumption of
U.S. trade with Cuba, surged the most in three weeks after a
newspaper report that former President  Fidel Castro ’s health had
deteriorated.  The $25 million fund jumped 3.7 percent to $6.65 today, the
biggest advance since Aug. 11.  Fuego Enterprises Inc. (FUGI) , which
intends to provide communications services in Cuba, led gains
among the fund’s holdings, climbing 25 percent to 3 cents in
over the counter trading.  Popular Inc. (BPOP) , Puerto Rico’s largest
lender, rose 3.5 percent to $2.08 on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  Nelson Bocaranda, a columnist with Caracas-based El
Universal, wrote yesterday that Castro’s health is “getting
complicated,” without saying where it obtained the information.
The Cuban revolutionary leader has lost consciousness several
times recently and is being treated for an infection, he  wrote .  Jorge Avila Hernandez, a spokesman for the Cuban embassy in
Mexico City, declined to comment on the speculation. Phone calls
to the office of the Permanent Representative of Cuba to the
 United Nations  weren’t answered and it wasn’t possible to leave
a message.  Castro, who turned 85 years old this month, began
transferring control of the island to his brother Raul in July
2006, when he underwent intestinal surgery, and officially
stepped down as president in 2008. Fidel Castro seized power in
Cuba a half-century ago promising liberty and economic justice,
then turned the Caribbean island into a communist bastion and a
flashpoint of the Cold War.  Trade Embargo  U.S. President  John F. Kennedy  imposed a trade embargo in
Cuba that is still in effect, even after  Raul Castro  initiated
some measures to open the economy after taking power.  Cecilia Gondor, executive vice president at Miami-based
Thomas J. Herzfeld Advisors Inc., said the fund usually rallies
on speculation about Castro’s deteriorating health.  The fund focuses on “companies in the region that would
benefit from a more open Cuban market,” said Mike Taggart, the
director of closed-end fund research at Morningstar Investment
Services in  Chicago .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  