-- 
TCW Rests Case in Trade Secrets, Fees Lawsuit Trial With Jeffrey Gundlach

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T17:47:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/tcw-rests-case-in-trade-secrets-fees-lawsuit-trial-with-jeffreyy-gundlach.html
TCW Group Inc. rested its case in
the trial that pits the asset-management firm against its former
chief investment officer,  Jeffrey Gundlach .  Former TCW president Bill Sonneborn, now chief executive
officer of KKR Financial Holdings LLC, was the last witness TCW
called to support its claims that Gundlach and three other
former employees stole TCW’s  trade secrets  to start DoubleLine
Capital LP, the rival asset-management business Gundlach set up
10 days after TCW fired him in December 2009.  “I encouraged him to terminate Jeffrey,” Sonneborn told
the jurors, recalling an August 2009 conversation he had with
TCW CEO Marc Stern. Sonneborn, who had left TCW in 2008, said he
told Stern that Gundlach was becoming a disease or a cancer for
the company. Sonneborn said Stern was unwilling to fire Gundlach
at that time because he was too important for TCW.  TCW, the Los Angeles-based unit of  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA,
sued Gundlach, 51, in January 2010, after more than half of its
fixed-income professionals joined DoubleLine. TCW’s damages
expert told jurors in California state court in Los Angeles that
the company suffered $344 million in damages from Gundlach’s
alleged interference with contracts and $222 million from a
claimed breach of fiduciary duty.  Fixed Income Manager  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years and was named
Morningstar’s Fixed Income Manager of the Year in 2006,
countersued, saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay
management and performance fees for the distressed-asset funds
his group managed and that went “through the roof.” Gundlach
seeks about $500 million.  DoubleLine called its first witness today, Paul Deitch of
Oaktree Capital Management LP, who testified that Oaktree helped
set up DoubleLine in December 2009 and got it up and running in
exchange for an equity stake in the company.  DoubleLine’s people were far from ready to start an
 investment company  when he first met with them the week after
Gundlach was fired, Deitch said.  “We had a lot of work to do,” Deitch said, adding that
Oaktree had 57 people, including eight project managers, working
on DoubleLine. “It was the Number 1 project.”  Gundlach, who testified for four days, has denied that
DoubleLine used any of TCW’s trade secrets or proprietary
information and said that DoubleLine employees were told to turn
over any TCW files they might have had. Gundlach told the jury
that the success of his funds was due to “experience and
thinking” rather than to analytical systems.  ‘Might Be Useful’  Cris Santa Ana, a former managing director of Gundlach’s
mortgage-backed securities group at TCW, testified that Gundlach
instructed him in September 2009 to start backing up data that
“might be useful to have” in case Gundlach was fired.  Santa
Ana  is a co-defendant and cross-complainant with Gundlach.  Gundlach’s fixed-income group managed more than half of
TCW’s $110 billion assets under management before he was fired.  Stern testified he became suspicious in September 2009 and
started checking Gundlach’s e-mails. Stern said he discovered
that Gundlach and people from his group were copying TCW files
and looking for  office space .  TCW claims it fired Gundlach because he was allegedly
stealing trade secrets and confidential information as he
secretly set up a rival firm. DoubleLine has argued that Stern
started looking into alternatives for Gundlach as early as June
of 2009, after Stern returned to active management and before
Gundlach’s people copied any TCW files.  TCW acquired Metropolitan West Asset Management LLC on Dec.
4, 2009, the day Gundlach was fired.  Stern told the jurors that in January 2010 he was forced to
cut the fees for the distressed-asset funds that Gundlach had
managed and to allow clients to withdraw their investments from
the funds, which they normally wouldn’t be allowed to do,
because of pressure generated by Gundlach’s comments to the
investors after he was fired.  The case is Trust Co. of the West v. Gundlach, BC429385,
California Superior Court  Los Angeles  County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  