-- 
Deutsche Telekom Board Was Unprepared for T-Mobile USA Deal Falling Apart

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n   a n d   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-09-01T10:49:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/deutsche-telekom-board-is-said-to-have-been-unprepared-for-at-t-complaint.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  hasn’t prepared
any alternative scenarios for its  T-Mobile USA  unit if a $39
billion proposed sale to AT&T Inc. falls apart, a management 
board member said today.  Managers led by Chief Executive Officer Rene Obermann were
meeting with Deutsche Telekom’s supervisory board yesterday when
they heard the U.S. Justice Department sued to block the deal,
Niek Jan van Damme said in Berlin. Obermann, who had previously
demonstrated confidence that the transaction would be approved,
was taken by surprise, said a person familiar with the matter,
asking not to be identified because the meeting was private.  Deutsche Telekom shares slumped 7.6 percent in Frankfurt
trading yesterday, erasing 3.1 billion euros ($4.5 billion) in
market value. The Bonn-based company said it will join AT&T in
contesting the  Justice Department ’s complaint in court. The
transaction is the biggest for Obermann, 48, since he became CEO
at  Europe ’s largest telephone company in 2006.  “Other scenarios were not being discussed,” Van Damme,
who heads Deutsche Telekom’s German business, told reporters on
the sidelines of the IFA electronics fair in Berlin. “When you
are in a deal, you stick to that deal, a clear focus on that
deal.”  Asked whether Deutsche Telekom is considering other
scenarios, he said: “We’re staying with it, this isn’t over.”  The company doesn’t depend on the cash from the deal to
pursue its investment plans in other markets, he said, adding
that “of course extra funds would be good.”  Rating Cuts  Analysts at Commerzbank AG, Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. and
Berenberg Bank lowered their ratings on Deutsche Telekom stock.
In a research note, Bernstein analyst  Robin Bienenstock  said the
deal and any other possible consolidation among the top four
U.S. mobile-phone operators are “all but dead.”  In its complaint filed yesterday in federal court in
 Washington , the Justice Department is seeking a declaration that
Dallas-based AT&T’s takeover of T-Mobile USA would violate U.S.
antitrust law. The U.S. also asked for a court order blocking
implementation of the deal.  “When it comes to larger M&A deals in the US, these things
happen,” van Damme said. “This isn’t an exception,” he said,
adding that “we have everything under control.”  Rejection by regulators would leave AT&T liable to pay
Deutsche Telekom $3 billion in cash, to give T-Mobile USA
wireless spectrum and to reduce charges for calls into AT&T’s
network. Deutsche Telekom values that entire breakup package at
as much as $7 billion, Philipp Kornstaedt, a spokesman for the
German company, said last month.  Debt, Dividend  “If the deal is facing such an obstacle then it’s negative
for Deutsche Telekom as the company wanted to divest the U.S. to
support its dividend policy and help reduce debt,” said Thilo Mueller, who helps manage 120 million euros at MB Fund Advisory
in Limburg,  Germany  and holds some Deutsche Telekom shares.  Deutsche Telekom last year pledged a minimum dividend of 70
cents per share as well as share buybacks totaling as much as
1.2 billion euros from 2010 through 2012. In addition, it plans
to use about 5 billion euros from the T-Mobile USA transaction
for additional share buybacks and 13 billion euros from the deal
to cut debt, which stood at 43.3 billion euros at the end of the
second quarter.  “DOJ failed to acknowledge the robust competition in the
U.S. wireless telecommunications industry and the tremendous
efficiencies associated with the proposed transaction, which
would lead to significant customer, shareholder, and public
benefits,” Deutsche Telekom said an in e-mailed statement.  Deutsche Telekom climbed as much as 2 percent today and was
up 1.7 percent at 8.95 euros as of 11:56 a.m. in  Frankfurt .  Break-Up Clause  “The break-up clause is attractive enough for Deutsche
Telekom, to that end there’s a dowry and a degree to which they
would be able to save money through any incremental investment
that would need to be undertaken in operating as an independent
entity in the U.S,” said Morten Singleton, an analyst at
Investec Securities in  London .  While Deutsche Telekom said it will get cash, airwaves and
a roaming agreement if the deal unravels, it may be forced to
offer T-Mobile USA to another bidder for $12 billion less than
its current agreement.  At the same multiple as the AT&T deal, T-Mobile USA would
be worth just $27 billion, based on $935 million in net income
in the past 12 months, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The companies can still salvage the deal if enough
concessions are made to satisfy the U.S. government, according
to Jan Goehmann, an analyst at Norddeutsche Landesbank
Girozentrale in Hannover, Germany.  AT&T has already pledged to bring 5,000 call-center jobs
back to the U.S. from other countries once the merger closes and
wouldn’t cut any U.S. wireless call-center jobs.  “It’s definitely still possible that the deal will go
through with some conditions,” said Goehmann.  The case is U.S. v.  AT&T Inc. (T) , 11-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Berlin via 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net ;
Ragnhild Kjetland in Berlin via 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  