-- 
Diamondback Capital’s Scolaro Settles Insider-Trading Lawsuit With SEC

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-08-31T21:50:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/diamondback-capital-s-scolaro-settles-insider-trading-suit-with-u-s-sec.html
Anthony Scolaro, an ex-portfolio
manager for Diamondback Capital Management LLC, settled an
 insider-trading  lawsuit filed against him today by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Scolaro, 50, accused of reaping $1.1 million for his firm 
by trading on inside information about Axcan Pharma Inc. late in 
2007, agreed to disgorge $140,400 in principal and interest and 
pay a $63,000 penalty, the SEC said in a  statement .  The allegations were related to a criminal case in which
Scolaro pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges stemming from
the Galleon Group LLC investigation, the agency said today in a
complaint today in U.S. District Court in New York.  Scolaro, a portfolio manager at the  Stamford , Connecticut-
based Diamondback, made the illicit profit acting on his firm’s
behalf, according to the SEC complaint. He traded on inside
information about Axcan that originated at the  New York  office
of the Boston law firm Ropes & Gray LLP, the agency said.  Axcan announced its acquisition by TPG Capital for
$23.35 per share, a 28 percent premium, on Nov. 29, 2007, by
which time Diamondback held 319,876 of its shares, some of which
it then sold for a profit, the SEC said.  Scolaro’s November 2010 plea of guilty to insider trading
was unsealed in May. He hasn’t been sentenced. His attorney,
 William Brodsky , didn’t immediately reply to a telephone message
seeking comment on today’s filing.  Diamondback to Pay  Diamondback, also named as a defendant, agreed to disgorge
$1.07 million in principal and interest, according to the SEC.  Diamondback disclosed the settlement to its investors in a
letter today, Steven Bruce, a spokesman, said by e-mail.  “The complaint contains no allegations of misconduct by
Diamondback,” the firm said, adding that it and not its
investors will pay for the settlement.  The case is SEC v. Diamondback Capital Management LLC, 11-
cv-6112, in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  