-- 
Drug-Dealing Ivy Leaguer, AMR-Sabre, Oracle-HP in Court News

-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 
2011-08-31T11:35:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/drug-dealing-ivy-leaguer-amr-sabre-oracle-hp-in-court-news.html
Harrison David, one of five Columbia
University students arrested on drug charges in December, was
sentenced to six months in jail and five years of probation
yesterday.  David, 21, of Wrentham, Massachusetts, pleaded guilty on
July 19 to selling cocaine to an undercover officer. He was
sentenced yesterday by Judge Michael Sonberg in  New York  state
Supreme Court in Manhattan, said Kati Cornell, a spokeswoman for
New York City Special Narcotics Prosecutor Bridget Brennan’s
 office .  Four other students -- Christopher Coles, 21, of
Philadelphia; Adam Klein, 21, of Closter, New Jersey; Jose
Stephan Perez, 20, of Atlanta; and Michael Wymbs, 22, of New
York -- have refused deals to plead guilty to drug-related
charges that would have earned them each five years’ probation.
They are scheduled to return to court in October.  The five students were arrested in December after a five-
month investigation named “Operation Ivy League.” The arrests
followed raids on fraternity houses and residences on the
university’s Manhattan campus.  Prosecutors said undercover officers spent $11,000 buying
drugs including cocaine, marijuana, ecstasy and LSD-laced
Altoids mints and Sweetarts candy, with most of the sales taking
place in common areas and bedrooms of three fraternities.  Matthew Myers, David’s attorney, and Robert Hornsby, a
spokesman for Columbia, didn’t immediately return messages
seeking comment on the sentencing.  The case is People v. David, 00038N/2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan.)  Lawsuits/Pretrial  AMR Has Interim Deal with Sabre Over Fare and Flight Information  American Airlines reached an agreement to keep fare and
flight data on Sabre Holdings Corp.’s distribution system until
a state antitrust lawsuit is resolved.  While no trial date is set, the case could last “well into
2012,”  AMR Corp. (AMR) ’s American said in a letter yesterday to
travel agents and corporate travel managers. The accord runs
until 14 days after the suit is resolved, removing a threat that
Sabre would drop American data after an Oct. 1 deadline to reach
a new contract.  Yesterday’s extension is the latest development in a
broader dispute triggered by American’s push to provide data
directly to travel agents rather than through companies such as
Sabre.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  has sued Sabre in a separate
dispute and the U.S. Justice Department is investigating
possible antitrust violations involving several flight data
distributors.  Sabre is the largest U.S.-based global distributor of fare
data and the parent of online travel agent  Travelocity.com . The
company will continue to negotiate a new contract with American
even as the lawsuit progresses, Senior Vice President Chris
Kroeger told clients yesterday in a separate letter.  The case is American Airlines Inc. v. Sabre Inc.,
67-249214-10, 67th Judicial District Court, Tarrant County,
Texas.  Oracle Accuses HP of Fraud in Cross-Complaint Lawsuit  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  accused Hewlett-Packard Co. of fraud and
libel, saying a settlement agreement between the two companies
over Oracle’s hiring of former HP chief Mark Hurd was unfair.
Oracle also claims that HP defamed Oracle with statements that
the company bullies customers.  The allegations came in counter claims by Oracle in a
pending HP lawsuit against its rival originally filed in June.
HP has accused Oracle of moving from partner to “bitter
antagonist” by hiring away its chief executive officer and
withdrawing support for its database software on HP computers
that use the Itanium chip.  In yesterday’s filing in California state court in San
Jose, Oracle alleged that HP fraudulently hid that it was
planning to hire Chief Executive Officer Leo Apotheker and board
chairman Ray Lane, when it forged a settlement agreement with
Oracle over its hiring of Hurd.  Oracle, based in Redwood City, California, also alleged
that HP has disrupted Oracle’s relationships with its customers.  Oracle seeks to rescind the Hurd settlement agreement, a
court order prohibiting HP from making false and misleading
statements about Oracle’s business and unspecified damages.  “Rather than focusing on what is right for our joint
customers, Oracle is relying on invented excuses to cover up its
blatant disregard for its legal obligations,” HP said in an e-
mailed statement. “HP is resolved to enforcing Oracle’s
commitments to HP and our shared customers and will continue to
take actions to protect its customers’ best interests.”  The case is  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  v. Oracle Corp.,
111CV203163, California Superior Court, Santa Clara County.  Deutsche Bank, BNP Suits Against Bank of America Dismissed  Bank of America Corp. won dismissal of claims by  BNP
Paribas Mortgage Corp.  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  over hundreds of
millions of dollars of losses on asset-backed notes they bought
for more than $1.6 billion.  U.S. District Judge Robert Sweet, in a decision released
yesterday, dismissed claims by BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank
that Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America illegally
kept loans and loan payments securing the notes.  The notes were issued by a special-purpose entity known as
Ocala Funding LLC, which financed loans originated by Taylor,
Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp., a mortgage lender that collapsed
in 2009. Bank of America served as collateral agent for the
loans.  BNP Paribas (BNP) , a unit of Paris-based BNP Paribas SA, and
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank filed contract lawsuits against
Bank of America in November 2009. In August 2010, they filed
related conversion suits. Sweet dismissed some of the contract
claims in March. In the decision released yesterday, he threw
out the conversion suits entirely.  Sweet gave BNP Paribas and Deutsche Bank 30 days to file
new complaints.  Robin Henry, a lawyer for BNP Paribas, didn’t immediately
return a voice-mail message seeking comment on the ruling.
William McDaniels, Deutsche Bank’s lawyer, had no immediate
comment yesterday.  BNP Paribas bought $480.7 million of the notes issued by
Ocala Funding, according to Sweet. Deutsche Bank bought $1.2
billion.  The cases are Deutsche Bank v. Bank of America, 10-
cv-08299, and BNP Paribas Mortgage Corp. v. Bank of America, 10-
cv-08630, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Microsoft to Withdraw Trade Claims Over Datel Xbox Controllers  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said it would withdraw part of its patent-
infringement case against Datel Design & Development Ltd. over
controllers for the Xbox 360 video-game system.  Datel redesigned its controllers and stopped importing
versions known as TurboFire2 Xbox 360 Wireless that were at the
heart of a complaint before the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington, Microsoft said in a filing on Aug. 29
that sought to withdraw the case. The software maker said it
will still pursue cash compensation for past infringement
through a civil lawsuit lodged against Datel last year.  “Datel’s voluntary exclusion of the accused products from
the U.S. market has obviated the need to devote valuable public
and private resources” of the ITC, Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft said in the filing.  The  controllers  made by Staffordshire, England-based Datel
can turn single-shot electronic pistols used in games like
“Call of Duty” into fully automatic weapons. Closely held
Datel filed an antitrust lawsuit in November against Microsoft,
claiming the company seeks to monopolize the markets for
multiplayer online gaming systems and for accessories not sold
directly with the Xbox. Those claims also are proceeding.  The case is In The Matter of Certain Game Controllers,
337-715, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington). The
antitrust case is Datel Holdings Ltd. v. Microsoft Corp.,
09cv5535, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California ( San Francisco ).  Lehman Wins Approval for Creditors to Vote on Liquidation (1)  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  won approval to send its
liquidation plan to creditors for a vote as the failed
investment bank works to wind down its three-year stay in
bankruptcy.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge James Peck in Manhattan yesterday
approved the description of the plan creditors will use to
evaluate the proposal and said voting could begin.  Lehman creditors are getting their say after the investment
bank filed for bankruptcy in September 2008. Chief Executive
Bryan Marsal has said he plans to raise as much as $65 billion
to pay claims. Total claims will come to about $360 billion,
 Harvey Miller , Lehman’s bankruptcy attorney, said at the
hearing.  Lehman’s success in getting to this stage in the case
“borders on the miraculous,” Peck said. “Heroic efforts have
achieved a very important transition point in the case.”  Creditors have until Nov. 4 to vote on the proposal. New
York-based Lehman is scheduled to return to court in December to
ask Peck to approve the plan, after which it would make
distributions to creditors.  Lehman’s proposal is the result of a settlement it reached
with two groups of creditors that opposed an earlier plan and
were pushing their own ideas for distributing remaining assets.  Separately, Lehman is seeking to force Giants Stadium LLC
to produce documents related to its role as partner in an
interest-rate swap deal, according to a court filing. Giants
Stadium, which financed about half of the construction of the
New Meadowlands Stadium with two 40-year auction rate swaps from
Lehman, had a $301.8 million claim on bankrupt Lehman and its
derivatives unit, according to filings. Lehman said it would
file some of the documents under seal to protect confidential
information, as the stadium company had requested.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Madoff Trustee Appeals $9 Billion Ruling in HSBC Case  The liquidator of Bernard L. Madoff’s  firm appealed a
judge’s ruling on his lawsuit against  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  that
threw out almost $9 billion in damages demanded from HSBC and
feeder funds.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York ruled July 28
that trustee Irving H. Picard has no right to sue on behalf of
customers or the Madoff estate, using common-law claims against
parties “who allegedly violated a duty to Madoff Securities’
customers by failing to detect Madoff’s fraud.” The trustee was
free to pursue $2 billion in bankruptcy claims, Rakoff ruled.  Picard filed a notice of appeal with the U.S. Court of
Appeals in New York and the trial judge, according to court
filings Aug. 29.  Much of the $100 billion Picard is seeking from banks such
as  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  involves similar claims to the HSBC
case, or other claims being scrutinized by two district judges.  The case is Picard v. HSBC, 1:11-cv-00763, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Picard Defends $59 Billion RICO Lawsuit against UniCredit (1)  Yesterday, Picard also defended the $59 billion lawsuit
against  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Bank Medici AG founder Sonja Kohn,
saying he was well-positioned to sue for racketeering.  UniCredit last month asked a U.S. District Court in New
York to dismiss trustee Irving Picard’s “hollow” racketeering
claims seeking three times what investors lost in the Ponzi
scheme, saying he wasn’t entitled to apply U.S. racketeering law
abroad. Picard said he was appointed to litigate “any claims”
belonging to the Madoff estate.  “There is no better-positioned litigant to bring these
 RICO  claims,” he said yesterday in a court filing, referring to
the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act.  Picard’s application of U.S. law to foreign companies was
also challenged yesterday when  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA (BBVA)  asked a judge to dismiss a $45 million suit. U.S. bankruptcy
law doesn’t empower Picard to take back money withdrawn from the
Ponzi scheme in other countries, the bank said.  Taking the UniCredit case out of bankruptcy court in June,
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff said he would decide whether
Picard can use U.S. racketeering law to sue the Milan-based
bank. He said he also will rule on whether Picard “plausibly”
alleged the elements of racketeering.  The case against UniCredit and Kohn is Picard v. Kohn, 11-
cv-01181, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  The case against Banco Bilbao is Picard v. Banco Bilbao,
10-05351, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  SEC Settles Suit Seeking Bonuses of Ex-Beazer Homes CFO O’Leary  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission settled a
lawsuit against ex- Beazer Homes USA Inc. (BZH)  Chief Financial Officer
James O’Leary over stock-sale profits and bonuses while the
company’s accounting statements were out of compliance with
federal law.  O’Leary must reimburse the company more than $1.4 million
received after Beazer restated financial results for the fiscal
year that ended Sept. 30, 2006, according to a statement issued
by the SEC. The SEC has accused the homebuilder of falsifying
reports to increase income.  O’Leary, who was not personally accused of misconduct, did
not admit or deny liability to the single count suit alleging
failure to reimburse, according to the statement. The
reimbursement was sought under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act.  In March, Chief Executive Officer  Ian McCarthy  agreed to
return $6.5 million in a clawback of compensation he received
while the firm doctored financial statements in the midst of the
U.S.’s housing crisis, according to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Lawrence Iason, a partner with Morvillo, Abramowitz, Grand,
Iason, Anello & Bohrer in New York represented Mr. O’Leary. He
didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment.  A federal judge must approve the settlement, filed in U.S.
District Court in Atlanta.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. O’Leary,
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Georgia
(Atlanta).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Appeals Court Upholds Novell Copyright on Early Unix System  Novell Inc. (NOVL)  owns the copyrights of early versions of the
Unix computer operating system, not SCO Group Inc., a federal
appeals court ruled, upholding a jury verdict.  The Denver-based  court  yesterday also affirmed a lower-
court ruling that Novell had the right to prevent SCO from
terminating a Unix license issued before Novell sold part of its
Unix business to SCO in 1995.  “Novell’s board of directors adopted a resolution
approving the sale, which specifically mentioned the copyrights
were to be retained by Novell,” the judges said in the opinion.  This was the second time the appeals court ruled on this
case. In the first appeal it reversed a lower-court ruling in
Novell’s favor and sent the case back. After a two-week trial,
the jury ruled Novell owned the copyrights. SCO appealed.  A spokeswoman for Linden, Utah-based SCO, Chantell Ferrin,
didn’t immediately reply to messages seeking comment.  The case is SCO Group v. Novell, 10-4122. U.S. Court of
Appeals for the 10th Circuit (Denver).  Barry Bonds to Be Sentenced Dec. 16 for Obstructing Justice  Barry Bonds, Major League Baseball’s home-run record
holder, is scheduled to be sentenced Dec. 16 on his conviction
for obstructing a U.S. probe of steroid use by professional
athletes, according to a court filing yesterday.  The former San Francisco Giants left fielder lost his bid
on Aug. 26 to overturn his conviction for obstruction of
justice. U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in San Francisco said
Bonds repeatedly provided “nonresponsive answers” to questions
about whether his trainer ever provided him with injectable
substances.  Jurors were unable to agree in April on whether Bonds, 47,
lied when he told a grand jury in 2003 that he didn’t knowingly
take steroids, didn’t take human growth hormone and didn’t
receive injections from the trainer, Greg Anderson. A mistrial
was declared on those counts.  Prosecutors haven’t said whether they plan to retry Bonds
on perjury charges. Bonds faces a maximum of 10 years in prison
on the obstruction conviction.  Bonds broke Hank Aaron’s record of 755 career home runs in
August 2007. He was indicted in November of that year for
allegedly lying to the grand jury.  Bonds’s attorneys said at trial that he truthfully
testified that he received performance-enhancing substances from
Anderson without knowing what they were because the drugs were
new at the time and Anderson told him one was flaxseed oil.  The case is U.S. v. Bonds, 07-00732, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  Canadian Trading Firm Appeals $13 Million FSA Market-Abuse Fine  The chief executive officer of Swift Trade Inc., a defunct
Canadian trading firm, appealed an 8 million-pound ($13 million)
U.K. fine for market abuse, saying a court will review evidence
in the case.  The Financial Service Authority’s allegations against the
Toronto-based company, which was dissolved in December, have
been referred to the Upper Tribunal, former Swift Trade CEO
Peter Beck said in a statement.  Swift Trade is accused of “layering,” in which multiple
buy orders for shares are submitted and withdrawn to manipulate
the price of a security. The company last week failed in a legal
bid to prevent the U.K. regulator from publishing details of its
investigation in a notice about the penalty.  The FSA may publish the notice this week, Judge Wyn Williams said at last week’s hearing.  Joseph Eyre , a spokesman
for the FSA in London, declined to comment.  Swift Trade also faces a regulatory probe in Canada. The
Ontario Securities Commission said in March the company failed
to establish proper controls and supervision, adequately monitor
its clients’ trading, and produce accurate trading records.  Swift Trade will contest the allegations in a Canadian
tribunal next year, the company said in a statement.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  U.S. Bancorp Sues BofA’s Countrywide Over Mortgage Pool  A U.S. Bancorp unit asked a New York court to force  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) ’s Countrywide Financial unit to repurchase more
than 4,000 loans in a mortgage pool to repair breaches of
contract related to improper underwriting.  The unit, U.S. Bank National Association, sued Countrywide
Aug. 29 in state court in New York, saying the lender agreed
when it sold the pool in 2005 that it would repurchase all the
loans within 90 days of receiving notice of a material breach.
U.S. Bank is trustee for HarborView Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-10,
which held the pool. The pool’s original value was $1.75
billion, the bank said in court papers.  “Soon after being sold to the trust, Countrywide’s loans
began to become delinquent and default at a startling rate,”
U.S. Bank said in its complaint. “During the time period in
which Countrywide originated the loans, it completely ignored
its underwriting guidelines.”  U.S. Bank asked the court to find that, as a result of a
breach of its seller representation, Countrywide must repurchase
all the loans. Or the court can order Countrywide to repurchase
all defective loans, U.S. Bank said.  “U.S. Bank filed the lawsuit as trustee for HarborView,”
Thomas Joyce, a company spokesman, said. “We filed the lawsuit
on behalf of the investors in the trust, at the direction of the
investors in the trust.”  “We are reviewing the complaint and do not have any
comment at this point,” Lawrence Grayson, a Bank of America
spokesman, said yesterday. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank
of America, which was also sued, acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The case is U.S. Bank National Association v. Countrywide
Home Loans Inc., 652388/2011, New York State Supreme Court, New
York County (Manhattan).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 