-- 
Marcus Wareing Is Toppled as London’s Best Restaurant for Food

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-08-31T09:20:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/ledbury-topples-marcus-wareing-in-harden-s-guide-to-top-london-restaurants.html
London  has a new best restaurant as
the Ledbury displaces  Marcus Wareing  at the Berkeley as top for
food, according to “Harden’s London Restaurants,” an annual
guide that collates views from thousands of diners.  The Notting Hill establishment beat Le Gavroche, followed
by One-O-One, the Square and Marcus Wareing. Le Gavroche led for
service, followed by the Ledbury, the Ritz, Marcus Wareing and
the Square. Wareing was first for service last year. The
Square’s chef,  Philip Howard , is co-owner of the Ledbury.  The Ledbury’s chef, Australian-born Brett Graham, 32, is
only the third to hold the top food honor this century,
following  Gordon Ramsay  (2000-2007) and Wareing (2008-2011).
During disturbances in London earlier this month, the Ledbury’s
kitchen brigade  repulsed rioters  who attempted to rob diners.  “ Brett Graham  and the team at the Ledbury, who acquitted
themselves so well in defending their customers against a mob,
deserve the highest credit for establishing the Ledbury as the
restaurant where you find London’s best food,” the guide’s co-
editor, Peter Harden, said today in an e-mailed release.  La Poule au Pot is toppled after 16 years as best for
romance, a title that now goes to Clos Maggiore, in Covent
Garden. The Wolseley retains its position as best for business,
followed by the Don, the Square, Bleeding Heart and Galvin La
Chapelle. The Wolseley is again named best for breakfast.  Marcus Wareing holds on to top place for best gastronomic
experience, followed by Le Gavroche and the Ledbury. Dinner by
 Heston Blumenthal , which opened in February, came fifth. Chez
Bruce is voted Londoners’ favorite for the seventh year in a
row. The Anchor & Hope is named best for pub food.  Carnival Cleanup  “It’s an honor to get this support from our customers,”
Graham said in a telephone interview. “I would go out to
celebrate but I have a restaurant to run and people want you to
cook for them. We spent the morning scrubbing the street after
the Notting Hill Carnival.”  One of the big winners is the restaurateur Nigel Platts-
Martin, who is part owner of the Ledbury, Chez Bruce, La
Trompette and the Glasshouse, all of which win praise in the
survey.  Harden’s collates reports from more than 8,000 diners
across the U.K. The guide will be published tomorrow. The
winners and losers in the U.K. Michelin Guide are scheduled to
be announced on Oct. 6.  Here are some of Harden’s rankings:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or Richardvines on
 http://twitter.com/home .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 