-- 
Eletrobras, JBS, Soquimich, Vale: Latin America Equity Preview

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-08-31T04:57:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/eletrobras-jbs-soquimich-vale-latin-america-equity-preview.html
The following companies may have
unusual price changes in Latin American trading. Stock symbols
are in parentheses and share prices reflect the previous close.  The MSCI Latin America Index rose 1 percent to 3,970.12.  Brazil  Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA (ELET6)  (ELET6 BS): Latin
America’s largest utility is in the “initial stages” for a
possible sale of 10-year bonds, Chief Financial Offer Armando
Casado de Araujo told reporters yesterday at an event in  Sao
Paulo . The shares fell 0.3 percent to 20.73 reais.  JBS SA (JBSS3)  (JBSS3 BS): The world’s biggest beef producer said
it plans to consolidate its Brazilian operations into fewer
units to cut costs starting Sept. 1 in a bid to save 200 million
reais a year. The meatpacker will halt its Presidente Epitacio
plant in Sao Paulo state and part of operations at five other
units, while increasing production at other units, according to
a regulatory filing. The shares slipped 1.2 percent to 4.08
reais.  Vale SA (VALE3)  (VALE5 BS):  Vale’s fertilizer unit said it’s in
preliminary, non-binding talks with Petroleo Brasileiro SA for a
potential operation involving Vale’s Complexo Industrial
Araucaria nitrogen-based fertilizer plant, without explaining
the purpose of the talks. Vale, the world’s biggest iron-ore
exporter, commented on the talks in a regulatory filing. The
shares gained 0.7 percent to 40.04 reais.  Chile  Soc. Quimica y Minera de Chile SA (SQM/B CC): The country’s
biggest fertilizer producer known as Soquimich posted a 26
percent increase in second-quarter profit after higher prices
pushed up sales. Net income increased to $132 million from $105
million in the same three months last year, the company, based
in Santiago, said in a statement on the Chilean securities
regulator’s website. The shares climbed 2.4 percent to 29,173
pesos.  Mexico  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL MM):  Latin America ’s largest Coke
bottler had its  credit rating  raised by Moody’s. The Mexico
City-based company’s senior unsecured rating was increased to A2
from A3, Moody’s said in a statement to the Mexican stock
exchange. The shares gained 1.3 percent to 121.91 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  