-- 
Emerging-Market Stocks Advance for Fourth Day on Fed Stimulus Speculation

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-08-31T22:10:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/emerging-market-stocks-advance-for-fourth-day-on-fed-stimulus-speculation.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark gauge to its biggest four-day gain since May 2010,
on speculation the  Federal Reserve  may announce measures to
shore up the  U.S. economy  next month.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.9 percent to
1,033.15 at 4:31 p.m. New York time, trimming its decline in
August to 9.2 percent, the biggest monthly drop since October
2008. Benchmark stock indexes in Brazil and  Mexico  reached four-
week highs. Poland’s WIG20 Index gained 2.2 percent while the
gauges for Hungarian and Russian stocks each advanced 2.1
percent.  Some Fed policy makers favored a “more substantial move”
beyond an Aug. 9 pledge to hold rates at record lows for the
next two years, minutes of a closed-door meeting published
yesterday showed. Options discussed included extending the
maturity of Treasury bonds already on the Fed’s books, or
starting a third round of bond buying, or quantitative easing,
according to the minutes.  “Markets were ignited by data from the minutes of the
recent FOMC meeting,” analysts at UralSib Financial Corp. in
Moscow including Leonid Slipchenko wrote in a note to clients.
“Some members were ready to implement QE3 to support the
economy, increasing the chances that stimulus will be introduced
if problems deepen.”  The MSCI emerging-market index has advanced 6.2 percent in
past four days, paring losses this month spurred by concern
 Europe ’s debt crisis is spreading and the U.S. economic recovery
is faltering. The measure has dropped 10 percent this year, more
than the 5.4 percent decline by the MSCI World Index of
developed stocks.  Brazil  Stocks  Brazil’s Bovespa Index rose for the fourth day, increasing
2 percent, paring a fifth straight monthly decline, on
speculation the central bank will cut  interest rates . Brookfield
Incorporacoes SA, the nation’s fourth-largest homebuilder by
revenue, led gains by companies that depend on credit growth,
rising 5.9 percent. JBS SA, the world’s biggest beef producer,
advanced 4.7 percent after saying it plans to consolidate its
Brazilian operations into fewer units to cut costs.  The Micex Index has increased 7.2 percent in the past four
days in Moscow, the biggest four-day gain since May last year.
Gas producer OAO Novatek advanced 4.6 percent. OAO Lukoil,
 Russia ’s second-largest oil producer, climbed 0.6 percent after
reporting higher-than-expected profit in the second quarter.  KGHM Polska Miedz  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , Poland’s sole copper producer, rose
2.9 percent, helping to lead gains in the WIG20 Index in Warsaw,
as the price of the metal climbed to the highest in more than
three weeks. The FTSE/JSE Africa Share Index gained 2.1 percent
in Johannesburg.  The Mexican peso led gains among 25 emerging market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg, strengthening 1.6 percent
versus the dollar. Iceland’s Krona was the best performer for
the month, rising 1 percent, followed by  China ’s yuan with a 0.9
percent gain.  South Korea ’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  added 2 percent and Taiwan’s
Taiex index gained 1.2 percent.  Exporters led increases in  Asia , with  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) ,
the biggest South Korean automaker, rising 3.3 percent and
affiliate  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  adding 2.5 percent.  LG Electronics
Inc. (066570) , which gets 30 percent of its revenue in  North America ,
climbed 4.1 percent.  Hon Hai Precision Industry Co., the world’s largest
contract manufacturer of electronics, jumped 6.9 percent in
Taipei as Barclays Plc forecast a “solid” third quarter for
the company, which reported increased operating profit margins
two days ago.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries added four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 367, according to JPMorgan’s EMBI Global
Index.  The Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index of eastern European,
 Middle East  and Africa credit-default swaps fell 10 basis points
to 249.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in  Seoul  at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  