-- 
Memory Collapse Gives Chipmakers Choice of Merger or Death: Tech

-- B y   I a n   K i n g ,   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 
2011-08-31T03:25:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/memory-price-collapse-gives-chipmakers-choice-of-takeovers-or-death-tech.html
Memory-chipmakers  ProMOS
Technologies Inc. (5387) ,  Powerchip Technology Corp. (5346)  and  Elpida Memory
Inc. (6665) , burdened by debt, losses and falling prices, are under
increasing pressure to seek mergers or exit the industry.  Taiwan’s ProMOS, with 16 consecutive quarterly losses, and
 Japan ’s Elpida, beset by $4.61 billion in debt, produce chips
that sell for less than they cost to make, said Mike Howard, an
analyst at El Segundo, California-based IHS ISuppli. Powerchip
hasn’t had a profit or sales gain in three quarters.  Chipmakers struggle to match supply with demand in the $39
billion market for memory in personal computers, where plants
take years to come online and can’t be shut down cheaply. The
challenge is deepening as consumers shun PCs, cutting prices for
dynamic random access memory, or DRAM, 26 percent in the past
year. Some companies may not be able to go it alone, said Makoto Kikuchi, who runs Myojo Asset Management Japan Co.  “Consolidation is inevitable for survival in this
industry,” said Kikuchi, chief executive officer at Myojo in
Tokyo. “It’s in a runaway deficit.”  DRAM makers as a group have lost 19 percent of their market
value this year, according to Bloomberg data. That compares with
a 13 percent slide in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index,
which charts the performance of the broader chip industry. The
Nasdaq Stock Market has slipped 2.9 percent this year.  A smaller number of big chipmakers would be better equipped
than multiple providers in gauging demand and adjusting output
as buying fluctuates, Steve Appleton, CEO of  Micron Technology
Inc. (MU) , said at a conference last week.  ‘Very Challenged’  Micron, based in Boise, Idaho, along with market leader
Samsung Electronics Co. and  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  are the
only DRAM makers among the top eight generating a profit.  Elpida, ProMOS, Powerchip,  Nanya Technology Corp. (2408) , by
contrast, are less able to afford the billions of dollars in
upfront costs for new plants and machinery. Without upgraded
equipment, it costs more to produce the thumb-nailed-sized
semiconductors.  Powerchip and ProMOS, ranked by Gartner Inc. as the sixth-
and seventh-largest DRAM makers, have already scaled back their
reliance on the PC market. Still, they are the most vulnerable,
said Mark Newman, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  “I find it difficult to believe they are going to survive
this downturn,” said Newman, who’s based in  Hong Kong .
“They’re very, very challenged right now.”  DRAM factories can cost more than $4 billion to construct
and become obsolete within about five years. It’s so expensive
to shut and restart the facilities that manufacturers keep them
running 24 hours a day, regardless of market conditions.  Boom, Bust  The industry boosted output 87 percent in 2007 and 63
percent the following year, before the recession crimped demand
for electronics and DRAM prices plunged, according to Micron
research. Production rose a more modest 45 percent last year,
and may gain 48 percent this year amid sluggish PC buying.  Acquisitions have already reduced the number of memory
chipmakers. Japan’s Elpida is the product of a 1999 merger
between  NEC Corp. (6701) ’s and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) ’s memory businesses.  Micron, which tried and failed in 2002 to buy Hynix, has
bulked up in memory in other ways. It bought a stake in Taiwan’s
 Inotera Memories Inc. (3474)  in 2008, becoming joint-venture partner
with Nanya. Micron expanded in DRAM in 1998 by buying the memory
operations of  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , a pioneer in the field.  Dealmaking doesn’t always improve a company’s prospects.
Hynix acquired LG Semiconductor in a 1999 transaction that
loaded it with debt and forced it to get a bailout.  ‘Poor Men Together’  “If traditional consolidation means that several companies
combine into one, then it’s kind of difficult because
everybody’s financial situation is quite severe,” said Eric Tang, a spokesman for Hsinchu, Taiwan-based Powerchip. “Two or
three poor men together don’t make a rich man. You have to find
your own way.”  Samsung, which has 38 percent of the market, according to
Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner, has $9.15 billion in cash.
Yet, the Suwon, South Korea-based electronics maker has focused
on organic growth. It may shun purchases, betting it can build
plants more efficiently by itself, said Young Park, a Hong Kong-
based analyst at Woori Investment & Securities.  While there is “another play or two to make” in the DRAM
market, there are few opportunities left to buy assets cheaply
that add significant scale to a company, Appleton said last
week. Dan Francisco, a Micron spokesman, declined to elaborate.  Hynix, based in Ichon,  South Korea , has no plans to acquire
other DRAM companies, said James Kim, Seoul-based spokesman for
Hynix, the No. 2 DRAM maker.  Getting Out of PCs  “Regardless of consolidation in the industry, we will stay
focused on reading future product trends to gain a technology
leadership,” he said.  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung, declined
to comment.  To cope, some smaller chipmakers are diversifying away from
DRAM and looking for other ways to decrease expenses.  Powerchip aims to curtail production of chips used in
personal computers and shift instead to other types of
semiconductors, Tang said.  Taiwan’s ProMOS is asking creditors to exchange debt for
company stock and then intends to seek new investors to pump in
cash, according to company spokesman Ben Tseng.  Japan’s Elpida, which received $1.7 billion in loans from
the government, its Taiwanese partner and banks to keep it
afloat in 2009, is unlikely to revive a failed plan to acquire
Taiwanese chipmakers, said Myojo Asset Management’s Kikuchi.  Elpida’s Constraints  The Japanese government’s interest in maintaining native
supply of memory chips may mean Elpida isn’t allowed to sell
itself to an overseas company. Instead,  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , which
makes a type of memory used in mobile devices such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad and iPhone, may be tempted to take it on, said
Sanford C. Bernstein’s Newman.  Hiroki Yamazaki, a spokesman for Toshiba, declined to
comment, as did a representative of Elpida. Both companies are
based in Tokyo.  Nanya, which has reported a profit in one quarter since
mid-2007, has no plans to buy rivals, said Pai Pei-lin, a
spokesman for the Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company.  “We are focusing on decreasing the cost and increasing
prices,” Pai said.  The number of DRAM providers may nevertheless need to drop
to about three, IHS ISuppli’s Howard said.  “It’s still going to be an industry in bad shape, even if
it consolidates,” because production won’t be taken offline,
said Howard. “If the industry gets down to three players,
hopefully saner minds prevail.”  Some businesses may be forced out of business, said Kim Chang Yeul, a Seoul-based analyst at Mirae Asset Securities Co.
 Germany ’s Qimonda AG sought protection from creditors in 2009.  “No one will want to buy these money-losing chipmakers now,
and it’s a matter of who’ll get out of the market,” Kim said.
“Who’d jump into this market?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net ;
Jun Yang in Seoul at   jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net . 