-- 
Merkel’s Cabinet Backs Euro-Rescue Expansion as Dissent in Coalition Ebbs

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-08-31T10:38:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/merkel-cabinet-poised-to-approve-expanded-euro-rescue-fund-as-dissent-ebbs.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet ratified expanded measures to combat the euro-area debt
crisis as she quells a rebellion among coalition lawmakers that
threatened to derail the package.  Senior members of Merkel’s Christian Democrats including
finance and economy spokesman, Michael Meister, and floor leader
 Volker Kauder  said this week they are now confident of securing
a coalition majority for the proposed changes to the European
rescue fund. Merkel yesterday pledged to consult lawmakers as
much as they felt necessary to dispel lingering doubts.  “We’re in a now-familiar phase of ifs and buts from
lawmakers but the bill will pass,” Peter Grottian, a politics
professor at Berlin’s Free University, said by phone yesterday.
“What’s more painful: risking the collapse of the government
and a devastating economic backlash, or gritting your teeth and
waving through a bill that may be effective even if you don’t
understand it?”  Ministers meeting in Berlin today backed a reworked
European Financial Stability Facility including sovereign bond-
buying powers, raising  Germany ’s share of EFSF loan guarantees
to 211 billion euros ($305 billion) from 123 billion euros. The
measures were agreed on by European leaders at a July 21 summit.  Euro, Bunds  The euro reversed an earlier decline and was little changed
at $1.4444 as of 12:30 p.m. in Berlin after the Cabinet
decision. Irish and Portuguese 10-year bonds rallied, sending
the Portuguese yield down almost 7 basis points to 10.15 percent
and equivalent Irish debt down 4 basis points to 8.4 percent.
German bund yields were little changed at 2.15 percent.  In passing the enhanced EFSF, “the German government has
strengthened its determination to secure the stability of the
euro with a powerful set of tools at the Euro zone level,”
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said in an e-mailed
statement.  Merkel still faces resistance from lawmakers in her
Christian Democrat-led coalition who say that Germany,  Europe ’s
largest economy and the biggest country contributor to bailouts
for Greece, Ireland and  Portugal , is putting too much taxpayer
money on the line for future rescues. With two state elections
looming next month, some lawmakers have said they’ll refuse to
back the government line in a vote due by the end of September.  ‘Mountains of Debt’  “This is a fundamental question for our children and
grandchildren, whom we’re already saddling with mountains of
debt -- and then we’re adding huge risks on top of that,”
Wolfgang Bosbach, the CDU chairman of parliament’s interior-
affairs committee, said on ARD television today. “I’m not
against helping  Greece ,” he said. “I just doubt that ever-
higher debts can actually help.”  A Finance Ministry preamble to the draft bill gives
parliament the right to decide how it participates in EFSF
operations, satisfying a key demand of the coalition parties,
according to a copy prepared for Cabinet and the parties
obtained by Bloomberg News.  It invites lawmakers to make proposals on separate
legislation due to go to parliament in October on Germany’s
contribution to a second aid package for Greece. The draft also
shows that enhancements to the EFSF won’t allow banks in need of
capital to tap the euro backstop directly.  “You can be sure that the Bundestag will have the level of
consultation on all questions regarding the European rescue fund
that lawmakers themselves feel necessary,” Merkel told the
Nordkurier newspaper in an interview published on her CDU party
website yesterday. She told reporters in Slovenia yesterday that
she was “committed” to having parliament approve the June 21
decisions taken by EU leaders in Brussels.  Party Conclaves  The debt crisis is the focus of a two-day meeting of the
 Christian Democrats  that begins in Berlin today. The CDU’s Free
Democratic Party coalition partner, which has adopted a more
skeptical tone to bailouts, began a similar conclave yesterday.  The parties meet as campaigning intensifies for a regional
election in Merkel’s home state of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania
on Sept. 4. That vote is followed on Sept. 18 by a state
election in Berlin, the last of seven regional ballots this year
which have seen the coalition parties punished as voters railed
against public bailouts of indebted euro-area countries. Polls
suggest the opposition Social Democrats will win both elections.  Nationally, support for Merkel’s CDU-led bloc rose one
percentage point to 33 percent, while the FDP held at 5 percent,
a weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine showed today. That’s
eight points behind the  Social Democrats  and Greens, down from a
10-point gap last week. Forsa polled 2,500 voters on Aug. 22-26.
The margin of error was as much as 2.5 percentage points.  Parliamentary Vote  The parliamentary vote on changes to the EFSF is scheduled
for Sept. 29. While the SPD and Greens have said they’ll back
the measures, ensuring the legislation passes, any rebellion by
Merkel’s own bloc would risk destabilizing the coalition.  For all the resistance to providing ever-more aid, the
consequences of voting down the bills mean it’s a step too far
for most lawmakers, according to Manfred Guellner, the head of
polling company Forsa.  “Few in the ruling coalition want to risk being sent into
the political wilderness if rejecting this bill means new
federal elections,” Guellner said by phone. “In a crisis that
is so complex, where so much is at stake and where no one has a
simple solution, it makes sense to seek consensus. That’s why we
hear supportive noises from the main opposition parties and why
a coalition majority is likely.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  