-- 
Escape From Killington, Vermont, Requires Local Excavator to Rescue Town

-- B y   T o m   M a s h b e r g   a n d   T o m   M o r o n e y
-- 
2011-08-31T19:46:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/escape-from-killington-vermont-requires-local-excavator-to-rescue-town.html
Craig Mosher has built many a road
through  Vermont ’s back country. So when he saw Hurricane Irene
carved a gaping chasm outside Killington where Route 4 used to
be, the excavator put the highway back together again.  “The state couldn’t get here, we had no phone service, and
half my business was underwater,” the sleep-deprived 42-year-
old Mosher said. “I jumped on my tractor and started moving
rubble. Some of it was pieces of my neighbor’s house.”  Vermont, mired by flooding from Hurricane Irene, began to
make its way back today. Sunny skies and temperatures in the 70s
speeded efforts to open towns and villages cut off by fallen
trees and washed-out roads, said Susan Allen, spokeswoman for
Governor Peter Shumlin. Only one of the 13 communities
identified as inaccessible remains so, according to Chris Cole,
spokesman for the Vermont Agency of Transportation.  Fifty-eight segments of state roads are closed, down from
71, Cole said. Five bridges reopened yesterday, while 26 remain
inoperable, Cole said. All rivers have crested and some are
receding, Allen said.  With yesterday’s arrival of 35 FEMA trucks loaded with food
and water, 100 smaller vehicles have fanned out to deliver the
supplies, Allen said.  Dead and Missing  Vermont endured a heavy blow. About 12,000 electric
customers remained without power, according to the state
Emergency Operations Center. Three people died and a man missing
in Rutland is presumed dead, according to Nancy Erikson,
spokeswoman for Vermont Emergency Management.  “That’s the most tragic thing that’s happened,” Shumlin
said on the CBS Early Show.  In the face of the devastation, the playlist on Bennington
radio station WBTN-AM turned ironic: “Gimme Shelter” by the
 Rolling Stones  was followed by  Bruce Springsteen ’s “Dancing in
the Dark.”  Natasha Garder, co-owner of the town’s Crazy Russian Girls
bakery, said today that she had been helping coordinate food
relief since the storm. She was preparing brownies and 100
loaves of bread to be delivered to Wilmington, about 20 miles
east of Bennington, where her business got its start. Wilmington
lost its offices and police department to the Deerfield River.  “We’re taking care of our community, but we want to take
care of our neighbors, also,” Garder said. “We have an
emotional connection.”  One Way Out  In the Killington area, home to the namesake ski resort,
the Ottauquechee River on Aug. 28 created a 250-yard gulf across
the state’s major four-lane highway, cutting off Killington and
other towns. Thousands of locals and tourists were marooned on
what many started to refer to as “Gilligan’s Island.”  By Aug. 29, much of the staff from  Mosher Excavating Inc. 
was redirecting the river into its bed. Then it was a matter of
“shoving the debris into the gap and bulldozing it down and
smoothing it over with sand and silt,” Mosher said  A dusty one-lane road out of Killington was open for three
hours today.  At least 400 cars packed with stranded tourists from
 Manhattan  to Moscow slipped out, according to town Selectman Jim
Haff.  “Craig is definitely a local hero,” said Roger Rivera,
33, an emergency worker with the state. “This is what
Vermonters do. We don’t wait for help. We get it done
ourselves.”  Making a Break  Residents had yet to be visited by FEMA workers, Haff said
this morning. They are using public and private equipment to
jury-rig as much infrastructure as possible, he said. Route 4
beyond Killington, while passable, is dangerous and few warning
signs have been posted.  “FEMA is trying its hardest,” said Rivera. “But the
whole state is a mess, and they can’t be everywhere.”  Refugee tourists were grateful for the escape route.  “We’ve had some tough days without power, and people were
cranky,” said Frank Law, 62, a retired computer executive from
 New Jersey . “Vermonters have been great. We are glad to be
getting out of here.”  Mosher has been too busy to locate his  two cows , which
wandered off “free-grazing” after his pastureland was churned
into mud. “Someone called and said, ‘Your cow dumped on my
yard.’  “I told them I was a bit too busy to deal with it right
away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Mashberg in Killington at 
 mashberg@rcn.com ;
 Tom Moroney  in  Boston  at 
 tmorrone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  