-- 
Tesco Plans to Sell 129-Store Japanese Unit on Lack of Scale

-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 
2011-08-31T10:41:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/tesco-plans-to-sell-129-store-japanese-unit-on-lack-of-scale-1-.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , Britain’s largest
retailer, plans to sell its 129-store  Japan  unit because it
cannot build a “sufficiently scalable business” there eight
years after entering the market.  The stores will remain open during the sale process, the
Cheshunt, England-based grocer said in a statement today. Same-
store sales in Japan fell 6.4 percent in the first quarter,
making it Tesco’s worst-performing business in the period.  The division, which includes the Tsurakame, Tesco and Tesco
Express formats, is Tesco’s smallest international retail
business and just over half the stores are profitable. The
retailer has invested 100 million pounds ($163 million) there
since 2004 and RBS analyst Justin Scarborough estimates the
assets could be sold for between 50 million pounds and 75
million pounds.  Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  “is prepared to take
a difficult position and decisive action and that can only be
viewed as a positive,”  Andrew Kasoulis , an analyst at Credit
Suisse in London, said by telephone. He has an “outperform”
rating on the stock and estimates the Japan unit had a trading
loss of around 20 million pounds last year. “It also shows
Clarke’s focus on driving growth and returns.”  Tesco shares rose as much as 2.5 percent in London trading,
and were up 8.5 pence, or 2.3 percent, at 373.3 pence at 11:14
a.m.  Translating Formula  “What we thought we’d be able to do is take our Express
format and our small supermarket format and grow it in the  Tokyo 
area,” Clarke told journalists on a conference call.
“Unfortunately its proven to be very difficult to shift
consumers from the stores that they use into new ones.”  “It was more about our difficulty in getting scale because
you’re competing with some extremely large Japanese retailers,”
the CEO said. The company has less than half of one percent of
Tokyo’s market share, where it employs just under 4,000 staff.
“We are tiny,” he said. “It’s an opportunity for somebody
already in the market to expand their scale.”  Tesco entered Japan with 76 stores after the purchase of
the C Two-Network Co. grocery chain in July 2003. The grocer
generates about a third of its revenue outside the U.K., with
 Asia  accounting for 16.8 percent of sales last year.  Clarke said the retailer’s decision to pull out of Japan
isn’t a signal that it will exit the U.S. Fresh & Easy chain.
“We’ve got great opportunities in Asia in businesses where we
are market-leading and I think any comparison with Fresh & Easy
would be inappropriate.”  Taiwan  Exit  The move out of Japan isn’t the first time Tesco has pulled
out of an Asian nation. Tesco exited Taiwan in 2006 as part of
an asset swap with French grocer Carrefour SA for outlets in the
Czech Republic and Slovakia. The Slovak government later banned
Tesco from buying the assets on the grounds that it would have
given the U.K. retailer excessive market power.  Tesco’s Japan unit comprises 123 outlets in Greater Tokyo,
including 30 Express stores, 76 supermarkets, 13  convenience
stores  and a Fresh Kitchen operation, which produces food for
the business.  The  retailer  last year wrote down the goodwill for the
Japanese assets to zero on an impairment loss, compared to 55
million pounds a year earlier, the annual report shows.  Tesco said it will now focus on its larger businesses
in the region, where it has stores in India,  China , Thailand,
Malaysia and  South Korea , its second-largest market after the
U.K.  The rest of  Europe  makes up about 15 percent of revenue,
while the U.S. Fresh & Easy business accounted for 0.8 percent
of sales last year. The retailer is building shopping malls in
China and leasing hypermarket space across Asia as its U.K.
market share slips.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  