-- 
EU Ban on Syrian Oil May Boost Tanker Demand, Goldman Says

-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 
2011-08-31T15:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/eu-ban-on-syrian-oil-may-boost-tanker-demand-goldman-says-1-.html
A possible European Union ban on
Syrian oil exports may boost demand for supertankers and have a
“significant” impact on depressed hire rates,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  said.  Imposition of an embargo would require the EU to seek crude
oil from more distant suppliers, such as those in the  Persian
Gulf , lenghtening journeys, Goldman said today in an e-mailed
report. Aframax vessels typically used to transport oil in the
 Mediterranean Sea  would be replaced with larger ships,
potentially increasing demand for supertankers by 2.5 percent,
according to the report.  Diplomats from the 27-nation EU approved the oil embargo at
a meeting in Brussels on Aug. 29, expanding sanctions against
President Bashar al-Assad’s government for its deadly crackdown
on protesters, according to a person familiar with the matter.
EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  announced the planned
embargo earlier this month, citing “intensifying large-scale
use of indiscriminate military force.”  “If implemented, this ban is likely to have a significant
impact on currently depressed VLCC rates,” Goldman analyst
Edouard Baldini wrote in the report, referring to supertankers,
which are also known as very large crude carriers.  Syria  exports 162,000 barrels of light crude a day, with 88
percent heading for  Europe , according to the report, citing data
from Lloyd’s List Intelligence.  The EU is widening sanctions against Syria that include an
asset freeze and a travel ban on 50 people and nine entities
deemed “responsible for the violent repression against the
civilian population.” The  United Nations  puts the death toll at
more than 2,200.  Tanks, Helicopters  Faced with the most serious threat to his family’s 40-year
rule, Assad has deployed tanks, armored vehicles, artillery and
helicopters to crush the uprising that began in mid-March after
revolts ousted the leaders of Tunisia and Egypt and sparked a
conflict in  Libya .  EU imports of crude oil from Syria in 2010 totaled 3.16
billion euros ($4.55 billion), according to the European
Commission, the bloc’s executive arm. The import ban will go
into effect after EU governments take a final decision
on the matter and it is published in the bloc’s Official Journal
in the coming days.  Minus Rates  Daily rental income for supertankers  on the benchmark Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan voyage plunged to minus $207 yesterday,
according to the  Baltic Exchange  in London. Earnings first
turned negative on Aug. 1, according to the exchange, and have
only been positive for seven days this month as a surplus of the
vessels persists.  Owners are contending with a supertanker fleet that’s the
largest in 29 years and growing at the fastest pace in more than
three decades, forcing freight rates to a 14-year low.  Supertankers carry about 2 million barrels of oil,
suezmaxes about half of that and aframaxes about 690,000
barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  