-- 
Euro’s Retooled Rescue Fund Faces Political Demands That May Weaken Effort

-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-09-01T07:11:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/euro-s-retooled-rescue-fund-faces-political-demands-that-may-weaken-effort.html
Europe’s rescue fund faces political
demands that risk hobbling its response to emergencies as the 17
euro-area governments prepare to ratify its overhaul.  The fund, known as  European Financial Stability Facility ,
would have to wait for a request from a debt-hit government
before buying its bonds in the secondary market, its new statute
shows. The extra step, along with German lawmakers’ demand for
control, may make it less responsive than the  European Central
Bank , which has bought 115.5 billion euros ($167 billion) of
bonds in the past 16 months to calm markets.  “What’s clear is that even if the EFSF is ostensibly
equipped to react swiftly in an emergency, it will be much less
dynamic than the ECB,” said Daniela Schwarzer, senior analyst
at the Berlin-based German Institute for International Politics
and Security. “Faced with an emergency I would be inclined to
put my money on the bank taking the reins of rescue action -- as
it has done and is doing.”  The retooled rescue fund, the product of a July 21
emergency summit, came as euro-area leaders approved a second
Greek bailout, trying to arrest a debt crisis that has spiralled
from a 2009 fiscal headache in  Athens  to a global economic risk.  The 48-page revision to the EFSF statutes, dated Aug. 26,
gives legal form to the summit decision to enable the fund to
buy bonds trading on the market, offer precautionary credits and
lend money to recapitalize banks. The need for governments to
seek a bond-buying effort wasn’t part of the summit statement.  ‘Acting With Unanimity’  Euro-area finance ministers “acting with unanimity” would
set guidelines for the pricing and terms of bond purchases as
well as “monitoring of compliance with policy conditionality,”
according to the draft obtained by Bloomberg News.  Internal divisions didn’t prevent the ECB from restarting
bond purchases last month, buoying Italian and Spanish markets.
The show of force helped send their 10-year debt yields down
more than 100 basis points from euro-era records.  The overhauled fund will wield 440 billion euros. European
officials such as European Commission President  Jose Barroso 
have said more may be needed to extend the aid umbrella from
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to large countries such as Italy
and  Spain .  “The market will very quickly perceive and focus on the
limited dimensions of the European Financial Stability
Facility,” said  James Nixon , chief European economist at
 Societe Generale  in London. “Simply far too much is being asked
of it. It was never dimensioned for the tasks that are now being
laid at its door.”  Collateral Demands  Final approval of the overhaul may founder on Finland’s
demand for collateral from Greece. Finland’s talks with Greece
triggered calls for similar treatment from nations including
 Austria  and the Netherlands, threatening to delay or scupper the
second Greek bailout.  “The final construct just looks so far away now, it’s
eroding the fund’s effectiveness when it finally gets up and
running,” said  Julian Callow , chief European economist at
 Barclays Capital  in  London . “The political squabbling is doing
it a great disservice.”  Lawmakers in  Germany , which shoulders the biggest crisis-
management burden, are seeking to keep the fund on an even
tighter leash, insisting that the parliament dictate the German
stance on future loans and bond acquisitions.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet cleared the way for
ratification of the reinforced fund yesterday after offering
assurances of an enhanced oversight role for the parliament.  German Debate  Merkel’s Cabinet failed to hash out the Bundestag’s precise
powers, leaving that debate to fester until the Sept. 29
ratification vote. The political mood may be swayed by regional
elections on Sept. 4 and 18 and a Sept. 7 German high-court
ruling on the constitutionality of the euro rescues.  Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  warned lawmakers
against wielding their influence to undermine the fund’s
effectiveness, saying has “just one request” to those pressing
for a say on future bailouts.  “It has to be done in such a way that this financial
agency can carry out its stabilizing function for the financial
markets and the euro,” Schaeuble said in an interview with ARD
television last night.  Giving lawmakers in Berlin more control over the EFSF
represents a political price of Merkel’s July decision in
Brussels to abandon her opposition to expanding the fund’s
powers. ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet and Barroso are among
officials across  Europe  who had pressed Merkel for months to
allow an expanded EFSF role.  Sweeping Control  Germany should have sweeping control over the operations of
the enhanced EFSF, according to a working paper that coalition
lawmakers will consider today. The demands include a
parliamentary veto right over new applications for aid by euro
region states, the right to approve the fund’s buying of bonds
and making loans to help ailing banks, as well the right to
approve changes to existing loan conditions.  If accepted by the coalition parties, the proposals will
be incorporated into a national EFSF bill that will be pushed
through parliament in Berlin by the end of the month.  All euro countries have to approve the upgraded EFSF, with
contentious votes also looming in countries such as  Finland ,
Austria, the Netherlands and Slovakia.  Bonds bought by the fund “can either be held to maturity
or sold in accordance with the applicable guidelines,”
according to the draft. Those guidelines -- including how to
finance and execute the purchases -- will be spelled out at a
later date by the finance ministers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  