-- 
Euro-Region Unemployment Holds at 10% on Periphery Pressure

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-08-31T09:08:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/euro-region-unemployment-holds-at-10-on-periphery-pressure.html
Euro-area July unemployment held
steady for a second month as gains in  Germany , Europe’s largest
economy, were offset by persistently high joblessness in  Spain ,
Ireland and  Portugal .  The seasonally adjusted jobless rate remained at 10
percent, the European Union statistics office in Luxembourg said
in an e-mailed statement today. Eurostat revised March, May and
June unemployment up to 10 percent from 9.9 percent. Economists
forecast a 9.9 percent rate, the median of 31 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey showed. At 21.2 percent, Spain had the
highest jobless rate and Austria the lowest at 3.7 percent.  Companies across the euro region are reluctant to boost
hiring amid a faltering recovery and government spending cuts.
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled
this week that the EU may reduce its 2011 growth forecast from
1.6 percent on concerns that financial turbulence could spill
into the broader economy. Economic expansion slowed to 0.2
percent in the second quarter.  “I don’t expect the unemployment situation to improve any
time soon, especially because there are clear signals for an
economic slowdown in the region,” said Christian Melzer, an
economist at Dekabank in  Frankfurt . “We’re getting to a point
where the German labor market is reaching its limit and on top
of that we have increasing pressure from the periphery.”  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4433 at 11:07 a.m. in Brussels.  About 15.8 million people were unemployed in the euro area
in July, up 61,000 from the previous month, today’s report
showed. In the 27-nation EU, the  unemployment rate  remained at
9.5 percent.  German Unemployment  Unemployment in Ireland increased for a second month in
July to 14.5 percent and dropped in Portugal to 12.3 percent.
Germany’s jobless rate held steady at 6.1 percent last month,
today’s report showed. Unemployment in  Europe ’s largest economy
declined for a 26th month in August, separate data by the
country’s Federal Labor Agency showed today.  While surging demand for cars is boosting hiring at German
companies including MAN SE, Continental AG and Daimler AG’s
Mercedes-Benz division, Telefonica SA, Europe’s second-largest
phone company, plans to slash the operator’s Spanish workforce
by about 20 percent in the next three years.  Hiring expectations in the euro-region manufacturing sector
slumped to a 10-month low in August, a European Commission
survey showed yesterday. Consumer concern about unemployment
jumped to the highest in more than a year.  Companies in the U.S. added 100,000 jobs this month
compared with 114,000 jobs in July, a Bloomberg survey shows
before data from ADP Employer Services is released today.  U.S. unemployment dropped 0.1 percentage point to 9.1
percent in July, according to today’s Eurostat data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  