-- 
European Stocks Gain After Fed Minutes, Trimming Monthly Slide

-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 
2011-08-31T16:00:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/european-stock-index-futures-gain-after-fed-minutes-u-s-futures-advance.html
European stocks gained for a third
day, trimming their biggest monthly drop since 2008, as U.S.
business activity and factory orders topped forecasts and
Federal Reserve minutes showed some policy makers wanted to add
to stimulus measures.  Bouygues SA (EN)  soared 16 percent after announcing a buyback.
 Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/) ,  Europe ’s biggest maker of artificial hips
and knees, rallied 4.9 percent amid takeover speculation. UPM-
Kymmene Oyj, Europe’s second-largest papermaker, rose 7.5
percent after saying it will close mills to cut capacity.
 Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  sank 7.6 percent as the U.S. sued to block
AT&T Inc.’s acquisition of its  T-Mobile USA  Inc. unit.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced 2.9 percent to 237.43
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  London , the largest gain in two weeks.
The index has still tumbled 10 percent this month, the biggest
drop since October 2008, amid concern the economic recovery is
at risk. The decline has left the measure trading at about 9.9
times estimated earnings, near the cheapest since March 2009,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The minutes were “taken as a good signal because the
majority agreed and the Fed said it has tools that it hasn’t yet
used,” said  Arnaud Scarpaci , a  fund manager  at Agilis Gestion
SA in Paris, which oversees about $110 million. “Everyone
thinks the Fed will put some sort of buying program into action
to help the economy.”  Benchmark Indexes  National benchmark indexes gained in all of the 18 western
European markets, except  Greece  and Iceland.  France ’s CAC 40
advanced 3.1 percent, the U.K.’s FTSE 100 rose 2.4 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX added 2.5 percent. Greece’s ASE lost 4.4 percent.  Fed policy makers debated ways to invigorate the recovery
and hiring this month, potentially laying the groundwork for
fresh action at their next gathering in September, according to
minutes of their latest meeting released late yesterday. A few
members of the  Federal Open Market Committee  favored a “more
substantial move” at the Aug. 9 meeting beyond the pledge
adopted by the panel to hold rates at record lows for the next
two years.  Reports today showed U.S. business activity and factory
orders expanded at a faster pace than forecast.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business
barometer fell to 56.5 this month from 58.8 in July. A level
above 50 indicates expansion. Economists had forecast the gauge
would drop to 53.3, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey. Orders placed with factories rose 2.4 percent
in July, according to Commerce Department figures.  EFSF Expansion  Stocks extended gains as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Cabinet approved proposed changes to the European Financial
Stability Facility. The changes, which include expanding the
EFSF to allow sovereign bond-buying powers, were agreed on by
European leaders at a July summit and backed by ministers
meeting in Berlin today. The draft will now go be introduced to
the German parliament on Sept. 5, with lawmakers due to vote on
the measures on Sept. 29.  A report today showed German unemployment fell for a 26th
straight month in August and the jobless rate held at 7 percent,
the lowest since records for a reunified Germany began in 1991.  Bouygues rallied 16 percent to 26.73 euros, leading
construction and materials shares in the Stoxx 600 to the
largest increase among 19 industry groups.  Bouygues Buyback  The French building, television and telecommunications
company said it plans to buy back 1.25 billion euros ($1.8
billion) in stock to take advantage of equity declines to lift
earnings per share.  Wienerberger AG (WIE)  advanced 9.8 percent to 9.94 euros after
the world’s biggest brickmaker said second-quarter profit
increased 11 percent as sales surged.  Smith & Nephew added 4.9 percent to 625.5 pence. Newspapers
including The Guardian, The  Daily Mail  and The Independent said
companies from Stryker Corp. to Biomet Inc. may be interested in
bidding for the company. Jon Coles, a spokesman for Smith &
Nephew at Brunswick Group in London, declined to comment.  UPM-Kymmene rose 7.5 percent to 9.13 euros in Helsinki
after announcing it will close mills in Finland and Germany to
reduce publication paper capacity.  Stora Enso Oyj (STEAV) , Europe’s
biggest papermaker, gained 5.8 percent to 5.09 euros.  A gauge of carmakers surged 4.3 percent for the second-
biggest gain in the Stoxx 600.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the
largest maker of  luxury vehicles , rose 3.9 percent to 56.35
euros while Pirelli & C. SpA, Europe’s third-largest maker of
tires, climbed 6.7 percent to 5.83 euros.  Valeo SA (FR) , France’s
second-largest auto-parts maker, jumped 8.8 percent to 36.79
euros, the biggest increase in six months.  Vivendi, Adecco  Vivendi SA (VIV)  climbed 4.9 percent to 16.97 euros as the owner
of the world’s largest video-game and music companies reported
second-quarter profit excluding one-time gains and costs of 884
million euros. Analysts had predicted earnings of 780 million
euros, according to the average of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest temporary-staffing company,
gained 4.4 percent to 37.63 Swiss francs while Dutch rival
 Randstad Holding NV (RAND)  rose 5.1 percent to 23.96 euros. Monster
Worldwide Inc., the biggest online-recruiting company, soared 21
percent in New York trading yesterday amid speculation that an
improving economy and Fed stimulus plans will spur job searches.  Deutsche Telekom dropped 7.6 percent to 8.81 euros, the
largest decline in 15 months. The U.S. government sued to block
AT&T’s proposed $39 billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA, saying
the deal would “substantially lessen competition” in the
wireless market.  Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR)  sank 15 percent to 65 euro cents as
Greece’s fourth-largest lender reported a first-half loss after
writing down its holdings of Greek  government bonds .  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s biggest bank,
tumbled 8.3 percent to 3.09 euros.  EFG Eurobank Ergasias SA (EUROB) 
dropped 17 percent to 1.60 euros, a record low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  