-- 
Europe Must Assume Military Responsibility, Sarkozy Says

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 
2011-08-31T17:56:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/europe-must-assume-more-military-responsibility-sarkozy-says.html
The ouster of Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi  is a tribute to Franco-British military cooperation,
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said, calling on other European
countries to increase their military capabilities.  “President Obama has presented a new vision of U.S.
military engagement that implies that the Europeans must assume
more of their responsibilities,” Sarkozy said, speaking to
French ambassadors today at their annual gathering in Paris.
“If we don’t draw the necessary conclusions,  Europe  will wake
up to a difficult reality.”  Britain and France’s leadership of the Libyan operation was
“a remarkable improvement over the wars in Bosnia and Kosovo
when the Americans did the work that the Europeans should have
done themselves,” Sarkozy said.  Backed by a five-month North Atlantic Treaty Organization-
led air campaign, Libyan rebels last week took control of their
nation’s capital, Tripoli.  Former U.S. Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , in a June 10
speech in Brussels, warned that NATO risks “collective military
irrelevance” unless U.S. allies contribute more to the
alliance’s operations. Sarkozy later called Gates’ comments
“bitter,” though he mentioned many of the same themes in
today’s speech.  Sarkozy noted that Britain and France account for half of
Europe’s military spending and two-thirds of its military
research.  ‘Soft Power’ Excuse  “What do we see but a continued decrease in military
spending, and the invocation of ‘soft power’ that serves as an
excuse to renounce engagement and, too often, a blindness in
front of menaces,” Sarkozy said. “Much needs to be done for
Europe to match the ambitions it has set itself.  France  is
determined to assume its responsibilities.”  After a year in which French military forces intervened to
dislodge  Laurent Gbagbo  in the Ivory Coast, took a leading role
in the air campaign over  Libya , and maintained operations in
Afghanistan, Sarkozy said France has buried its history of
defending dictators in the developing world in the name of
stability and will instead focus its foreign policy on promoting
democracy.  “We must make a clean break with this search for
‘stability’ which created conflict with our values,” he said.
“Now we must reconcile our values and reality.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  