-- 
Euro-Region Inflation, Unemployment Hold as Recovery Falters

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w   a n d   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 
2011-08-31T11:05:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/european-inflation-holds-steady-in-august.html
Euro-area inflation remained
unchanged in August and unemployment held steady for a second
month in July as economic growth in the region slowed amid a
persistent sovereign debt crisis.  The inflation rate remained at 2.5 percent after falling to
that level in July, the European Union’s statistics office in
Luxembourg said today in an initial estimate. The seasonally
adjusted jobless rate remained at 10 percent, a separate report
showed. Eurostat revised March, May and June unemployment up to
10 percent from 9.9 percent.  Europe ’s economy cooled more than economists forecast in
the second quarter and economic confidence plunged in August,
suggesting companies may find it more difficult to pass on
higher costs and boost hiring. Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  indicated this week that the EU may
reduce its 2011 growth forecast from 1.6 percent on concerns
that financial turbulence could spill into the broader economy.  The  European Central Bank  “is expected to step back at its
September policy meeting from indicating that a further interest
rate rise is likely this year,” acknowledging that “the
downside risks to growth have increased while the upside risks
to inflation have diminished,” said  Howard Archer , chief
European economist at IHS Global Insight in  London .  ‘Moderate’ Inflation Pressure  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  said on Aug. 29 that the
bank is reviewing its assessment of inflation threats ahead of
the Sept. 8 rate decision after policy makers raised borrowing
costs twice this year to 1.5 percent to fight price pressures.
Inflation in the 17-nation euro region has exceeded the
Frankfurt-based ECB’s limit since December.  The euro was little changed after the data were released,
trading at $1.4439 at 12:46 p.m. in Brussels.  The ECB will release its latest economic projections next
week. In June, the central bank forecast euro-region inflation
to average 2.6 percent this year and 1.7 percent in 2012. Growth
may slow to 1.7 percent in 2012 from 1.9 percent this year.  “Underlying inflation pressure remains moderate
considering the economy is only growing moderately,” said  Aline Schuiling , senior economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam.
“While inflation will remain above the ECB’s limit this year,
it should drop below 2 percent next year.”  With the recovery faltering and consumers growing more
pessimistic, the ECB has room to keep borrowing costs at 1.5
percent. ECB council member Ewald Nowotny said on Aug. 26 that
he saw no “specific issues that could contribute to an
increase” in inflation expectations. While the economy is
cooling, “it won’t mean recession,” he said.  German Unemployment  Crude-oil prices have retreated 14.5 percent in the past
three months, bolstering consumers’ purchasing power just as
growth weakens. The euro-region economy expanded 0.2 percent in
the second quarter with  Germany ’s recovery coming to a near
halt. Adding to signs of a slowdown, European manufacturing
contracted in August and German investor confidence dropped more
than economists forecast to the lowest in 2 1/2 years.  Germany’s jobless rate held steady at 6.1 percent last
month, today’s report showed. Unemployment in Europe’s largest
economy declined for a 26th month in August, separate data from
the country’s Federal Labor Agency showed today.  While surging demand for cars is boosting hiring at German
companies including MAN SE, Continental AG and Daimler AG’s
Mercedes-Benz division, Telefonica SA, Europe’s second-largest
phone company, plans to slash the operator’s Spanish workforce
by about 20 percent in the next three years.  ‘Increasing Pressure’  “We’re getting to a point where the German labor market is
reaching its limit and on top of that we have increasing
pressure from the periphery,” said Christian Melzer, an
economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “I don’t expect the
unemployment situation to improve any time soon, especially
because there are clear signals for an economic slowdown in the
region.”  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, said on Aug.
12 that global demand had slowed and European consumption
declined “sharply.” The company on that day posted fiscal
third-quarter earnings that missed analysts’ estimates.  Hiring expectations in the euro-region manufacturing sector
slumped to a 10-month low in August, a European Commission
survey showed yesterday. Consumer concern about unemployment
jumped to the highest in more than a year.  Unemployment in Ireland increased for a second month in
July to 14.5 percent and 21.2 percent in  Spain , the highest in
the 17-nation euro region. Joblessness dropped to 12.3 percent
in  Portugal  and 3.7 percent in  Austria , the lowest in the
currency zone. About 15.8 million people were unemployed in the
euro area in July, up 61,000 from the previous month.  Companies in the U.S. added 100,000 jobs this month
compared with 114,000 jobs in July, a Bloomberg survey shows
before data from ADP Employer Services is released today.  U.S. unemployment dropped 0.1 percentage point to 9.1
percent in July, according to today’s Eurostat data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  