-- 
Europe Drags Residential Property Price Increases to Lowest in Two Years

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-08-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/europe-drags-residential-property-price-gains-to-two-year-low.html
Home values worldwide rose at the
slowest pace in two years in the second quarter as declines in
 Europe  combined with smaller gains in Asia, Knight Frank LLP
said.  Prices increased 0.1 percent from the previous three
months, according to a report released today by the London-based
real-estate broker. That’s the least since the second quarter of
2009, when there was a 0.9 percent drop.  The slowdown “was driven by the sovereign-debt concerns in
the southern European economies,” Residential Research
Associate Kate Everett-Allen said in an interview. “There is
still a concern that could spread across the European Union and
become a bigger issue because it’s not being dealt with
properly.”  Europe’s economies cooled more than forecast in the second
quarter and economic confidence plunged in August. The benchmark
Stoxx Europe 600 Index entered a  bear market  on Aug. 8 and has
declined about 18 percent from this year’s high in February on
concern that Europe will fail to contain its sovereign-debt
crisis.  Home values dropped in more than half of the 17 countries
that use the euro during the second quarter, led by Ireland,
which retreated 4.2 percent from the prior three months, and
Portugal, where there was a 2 percent decline. Prices in both
the U.K. and Germany rose 0.2 percent.  Prices in the Chinese cities of Beijing and Shanghai
declined 0.1 percent in the second quarter as government efforts
to curb real-estate inflation began to take effect, Everett-
Allen said. In  Hong Kong , there was a 3.5 percent increase.  ‘Cooling Measures’  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  is trying to limit property
speculation by constraining mortgage lending, boosting down-
payment requirements and limiting the number of home purchases.  “The cooling measures are taking effect in Asia,”
Everett-Allen said. “They are trying to deter speculative
investment.”  On an annual basis, residential property valued gained 1.7
percent in the second quarter, Knight Frank said. Hong Kong was
the most buoyant market with an increase of 26.5 percent, while
 India  ranked second with a 21.3 percent gain. Prices in Ireland
dropped 12.9 percent for the year ending in June, the most of
any country in the index, followed by Russia, where values fell
12.1 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in  London  at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 