-- 
Europe Watchdog to Discuss Foreign Currency Loans, Austria Says

-- B y   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 
2011-08-31T09:00:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/europe-watchdog-to-discuss-foreign-currency-loans-austria-says.html
The  European Systemic Risk Board ,
 Europe ’s new 65-member risk watchdog, will discuss ways to
reduce the risks of foreign currency loans, said Andreas Ittner,
the Austrian central bank’s director responsible for bank
supervision.  “The ESRB will be examining this issue, potentially quite
soon” to establish a “set of tools” tailored to deal with the
potential risks of such loans, Ittner told reporters in Vienna
yesterday at a joint dinner with the Financial Markets
Authority.  Austrian regulators have warned about Swiss franc-
denominated mortgages for 10 years and implemented a ban last
year to households without franc revenue. The number of loans in
francs to private individuals in Austria has fallen to 210,000
from 270,000 in January 2009, Ittner said.  “The advantage of the ESRB is that this will be examined
from a European perspective,” said Helmut Ettl, the FMA’s co-
chief executive officer. “Until now there have been
possibilities of evading national regulation by offering cross-
board loans using the freedom to provide services.”  Austrian banks have granted 176.9 billion euros ($255.5
billion) in foreign currency loans domestically and in central
and eastern Europe, according to central bank data. Of this,
58.3 billion euros were granted in  Austria , with 88 percent
granted in francs. Most of these loans use so-called repayment
vehicles that don’t mature before 2020, meaning there still is
time to work on a solution, Ittner said.  Eastern Europe  “What for the banks is almost more important is the issue
of eastern Europe,” where lenders have granted 118.6 billion
euros of foreign currency loans, including 18.3 billion euros in
francs, Ittner said. The main issue is the 13 billion euros of
franc loans granted to private individuals, he said. Franc loans
in eastern Europe typically are loans repaid with installments,
which means that there have been delinquencies.  Of the overall loans volume granted by Austrian lenders to
eastern Europe, franc loans make up 8.6 percent, Ittner said,
adding that from today’s point of view franc loans “are a
problem, but they are a manageable problem.”  Lenders including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  Bayerische Landesbank  have
80 billion francs of household debt in  Hungary , Poland and
 Croatia , Kilian Reber, an emerging-markets analyst at UBS, said
on Aug. 23.  Best Performing Currency  The franc is this year’s best performing currency, even
after the Swiss central bank cut  interest rates  on Aug. 3 and
pledged to stem further appreciation. Investors consider the
currency a haven as the  U.S. economy  slows and Europe’s debt
crisis pushes toward Italy and  Spain .  Eastern European borrowers sought franc-denominated loans
last decade to escape high interest rates in their local
currencies. More than 60 percent of Hungary’s household debt is
denominated in francs, equivalent to 16 percent of gross
domestic product, according to UBS Wealth Management. That
figure is about 10 percent in  Poland  and Croatia, it said.  More than one in 10 Swiss-franc loans is non-performing in
Hungary, compared with 1.5 percent in Poland and 6 percent in
Croatia, according to UBS Wealth Management.  Under the wealth manager’s base case, damage to western
European banks will be limited as the Swiss economy slows and
the central bank works to halt the franc’s advance. It forecasts
the franc, which touched a record high of 272 forint on Aug. 10,
will weaken to 210 forint in 12 months.  Western European lenders, which control three quarters of
eastern Europe’s banking industry, have scaled back loans to
each other as the debt crisis worsens and the global economy
slows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net ; 