-- 
Ex-Goldman Exec Started SEC Job After Earning $57 Million

-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-09-01T20:32:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/ex-goldman-exec-joined-sec-after-earning-more-than-57-million.html
Weeks after Eileen P. Rominger left
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , she took the helm of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s investment management
division as one of the wealthiest people to ever join the
agency.  Rominger reported $57.5 million in income from  New York- 
based Goldman Sachs in a financial disclosure form covering 2010
and 2011. She also reported making $2.3 million to $13.2 million
in investment income since the start of 2010.  Rominger, 56, retired as global chief investment officer at
Goldman Sachs Asset Management in December after 11 years with
the firm. She was appointed by SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  in
January to replace Andrew J. “Buddy” Donohue at the helm of
the division that oversees mutual funds and will handle new
oversight of  hedge funds  required by the Dodd-Frank Act.  The financial disclosure, obtained by Bloomberg News under
a public records request, asks for ranges rather than specific
dollar figures. It showed Rominger holding $9.3 million to $31.3
million in assets, at least $4 million of that in  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  money market accounts.  She listed compensation received from Goldman Sachs from
January 2010 through July 2011 on two lines, one totaling $46.8
million and one for $10.7 million. It was unclear in what time
period she may have earned the compensation.  The form didn’t specify whether the compensation consisted
of salary, accumulated retirement benefits or other payments.  Federal officials are required to submit regular financial
disclosure reports that detail income, assets and debt.  Rominger declined to comment on the disclosure report.  Judith Burns, an SEC spokeswoman, estimated Rominger will
earn about $220,000 for her first year at the agency.  Millionaire Officials  Rominger is not the first regulator to report to work with
an ample bank account. Another Goldman Sachs alumnus, former
Treasury Secretary  Henry Paulson , amassed more than $500 million
in a career that peaked with his job as chief executive officer
of the Wall Street firm. Another Treasury Department official,
 Mary Miller , assistant secretary for financial markets, left a
26-year career at T. Rowe Price Group Inc. with about $15
million in  stock options .  At the SEC, Schapiro arrived with an $8.99 million final
distribution from her job as chief executive officer at the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, including vested
retirement benefits. One of her predecessors at the SEC, William Donaldson, owned assets worth $44 million to $129 million,
including stocks in more than 50 companies, when he got the job.  Industry Expertise  As SEC chairman, Schapiro has sought to increase hiring of
people with financial-industry expertise in response to
criticism that the lawyer-dominated agency lacked the practical
experience needed to police increasingly complex markets.  “It’s incredibly important for the commission to have the
access to the expertise and judgment that comes from having been
in the industry,” Donohue, Rominger’s predecessor, said in an
interview.  It’s also vital to “get the right people that are at the
SEC for the right reasons,” said Donohue, who came to the SEC
from a stint as global general counsel at Merrill Lynch
Investment Managers and now works at New York-based law firm
Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP.  Officials who are hired from the industry often have the
best intentions, said James D. Cox, a law professor at  Duke
University  in Durham,  North Carolina .  “I think a lot of people really do like to leave industry
and go to work at the SEC for a while to make it work better,”
Cox said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 