-- 
Ex-Galleon Trader Drimal Sentenced to 5 ½ Year Term for Insider Trading

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/ex-galleon-fund-trader-drimal-gets-five-year-sentence-for-insider-trading.html
Former Galleon Group LLC hedge fund
trader Craig Drimal was sentenced to 5 1/2 years in prison
after admitting his part in an  insider-trading  scheme that
stretched from technology firms to pharmaceutical companies.  Drimal, 55, pleaded guilty in April to six counts of
conspiracy and securities fraud, admitting that he and others at
Galleon traded on inside information obtained from lawyers
working on transactions involving 3Com Corp. and Axcan Pharma
Inc. Drimal said the tips came from Arthur Cutillo and Brien Santarlas, lawyers at Boston-based Ropes & Gray LLP.  “I understand I’ve committed a crime and I deserve to pay
the price,” Drimal told U.S. District Judge  Richard Sullivan 
before sentencing.  Prosecutors had asked Sullivan, who handed down the 66-
month term yesterday in  Manhattan , to sentence Drimal within
federal guidelines, which Sullivan said call for a sentence of
57 to 71 months. Drimal asked for a sentence below the guideline
range.  In addition to the prison sentence, Sullivan ordered Drimal
to forfeit $11 million and to serve three years of supervised
release.  Cutillo Sentence  Cutillo, who pleaded guilty in January, was sentenced to 30
months in prison in June. Santarlas, who pleaded guilty and
testified at the Goffer trial, hasn’t been sentenced.  Drimal made personal profits of about $6.47 million from
trades in 3Com and Axcan based on the information from the Ropes
& Gray lawyers, and provided material nonpublic information to
Galleon trader Michael Cardillo, who used the tips to earn
profits of about $731,505, prosecutors said.  Cardillo pleaded guilty in January to securities fraud and
conspiracy and agreed to cooperate with the government. He was
ordered to pay more than $68,000 as part of an Securities and
Exchange Commission lawsuit.  Drimal also earned about $4.3 million from trades based on
tips about the pending acquisition of Hilton Hotels Corp. in
2007, and about $950,117 from trades made on information about a
takeover of Kronos Inc., prosecutors said.  Drimal met with government representatives after  Federal
Bureau of Investigation  agents approached him before his arrest
in November 2009 and sought his cooperation, the government
said. Drimal then contacted former Galleon Group trader Zvi Goffer and told him about the probe, against instructions,
prosecutors said.  SEC Investigation  Drimal also lied to SEC personnel in July 2008 when they
interviewed him about the reason why he bought Axcan stock,
prosecutors said.  Goffer was convicted of all 14 counts against him in June,
in the second trial of defendants charged in a nationwide
investigation of insider trading at  hedge funds .  In a sentencing memorandum filed yesterday, Goffer told a
judge he’s a changed man and asked to be sentenced to less than
the 10 years in prison called for under U.S. sentencing
guidelines. Goffer claimed his two young sons have changed him
from the man he was when he committed the crimes.  “The arrogant swagger of 2007 has been replaced with an
honest humility in 2011,” according to the court filing.
“Yesterday,  Zvi Goffer  is a truly remorseful and humbled man.”  Goffer’s former boss, Galleon Group co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , was convicted of insider trading in May. Prosecutors
are seeking a sentence of more than 24 years when Rajaratnam is
sentenced Sept. 27.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  