-- 
Ex-Primary Global Executive Fleishman’s Conspiracy Trial Begins in N.Y.

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-08-31T17:02:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/ex-primary-global-executive-fleishman-s-conspiracy-trial-begins-in-n-y-.html
The insider-trading conspiracy trial
of former Primary Global Research LLC executive James Fleishman
which began today will include testimony from ex-technology
executives implicated in the alleged plot, the U.S. said.  Fleishman, of  Santa Clara , California, went on trial before
U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in Manhattan on two counts of
conspiracy for his role in what prosecutors say was a two-
yearlong insider-trading scheme. Fleishman, who has pleaded not
guilty, faces as long as 25 years in prison if convicted.  The defendant worked with “a corrupt network of insiders”
at technology companies who “sold out their employers by
stealing and then peddling their valuable inside information,”
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said at the time the
charges were announced in December.  A jury was selected today to hear the case, which Rakoff
said would last about three weeks. The judge directed lawyers
that they would deliver their opening statements this afternoon
after a lunch break.  Two men who have entered guilty pleas in the insider probe,
Mark Anthony Longoria, a former  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) 
manager, and Daniel DeVore, a former supply manager for  Dell
Inc. (DELL) , have agreed to testify against Fleishman, assistant U.S.
attorneys Antonia Apps and  David Leibowitz  said.  Crackdown  DeVore pleaded guilty in December to  wire fraud  and
conspiracy. Longoria pleaded guilty in June to conspiracy,
 securities fraud , wire fraud and making false statements to
federal agents and prosecutors.  Thirteen people have been convicted in the crackdown,
including 12 who pleaded guilty. Winifred Jiau, a former Primary
Global consultant was convicted at trial in June of securities
fraud and conspiracy for passing inside tips about Nvdia Corp.
and  Marvell Technology Group Ltd. (MRVL)  to hedge fund managers.  Primary Global, based in  Mountain View ,  California , links
investors with industry experts at public companies. In his
position as a sales manager, Fleishman was responsible for
attracting new clients and arranging for fund managers to speak
to consultants, the U.S. said.  He knew “that inside information would be passed by the
firm consultant to the firm clients” during these sessions and
participated in a scheme to pass secret tips and company
information from 2008 to 2010, prosecutors said.  ‘Co-Conspirators’  The conspiracy included at least five others, prosecutors
said. Unni Narayanan, Primary Global’s chief executive officer,
and Phani Saripella, its chief operating officer, were
identified as “co-conspirators” in the insider-trading scheme,
prosecutors said.  Rakoff today issued several rulings before testimony began,
including barring statements Fleishman made to agents of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  from coming into the case.  “Fleishman stated that he did not listen to telephone
calls arranged by PGR and PGR experts,” FBI agents said in a
May 2010 memo, and told agents, “that he does not believe that
people he works with at PGR are breaking the law.”  Prosecutors said the information passed included companies
such as Advanced Micro Devices,  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX) ,
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Dell.  Focus of Probe  Primary Global was the focus of a probe by Bharara’s office
and the FBI dating back to 2008, court records show. For seven
months in 2009 and 2010, five different federal judges in  New
York  authorized wiretaps of telephone lines used by Primary
Global. Rakoff has rejected a bid by Fleishman to bar the
government from playing wiretaps of more than 100 calls to the
company’s conference lines at the trial.  The recorded calls will corroborate the testimony of
cooperating witnesses, prosecutors said, and show how Fleishman
and consultants passed secret company information during these
sessions.  In one instance, DeVore, a Dell employee who was working as
a Primary Global consultant, provided “actual forecast unit
sales numbers and pricing information for Dell desktop and
notebook computers” as well as market-share information,
prosecutors said.  Longoria provided “top-line revenue and profit-margin
numbers for AMD for two quarters in 2009,” Apps and Leibowitz
said. He also provided average sales prices for “all or
substantially all of AMD’s businesses.”  “Fleishman spoke directly to one or more of the
consultants and obtained inside information from them,” the
U.S. said, and “facilitated, assisted or arranged for other
Primary Global employees or certain clients to speak to the
consultants.”  The case is U.S. v. Nguyen, 11-cr-00032, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in federal court in Manhattan at
   phurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 