-- 
Texas A&M Says It Will Seek to Move From Big 12

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-31T18:48:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/texas-a-m-says-it-will-seek-to-move-from-big-12.html
Texas A&M University  said it will
seek to move from the  Big 12 Conference , without identifying the
league where it might wind up next year.  The  College Station ,  Texas , university announced the
decision today in a letter to Big 12 Commissioner Dan Beebe, the
school said on its athletics  website . The letter says that the
school will submit an application to another conference and, if
accepted, will leave the Big 12 effective June 30, 2012.  “I have determined it is in the best interest of Texas
A&M to make application to join another athletic conference,”
university President R. Bowen Loftin said in the letter. “We
appreciate the Big 12’s willingness to engage in a dialogue to
end our relationship through a mutually agreeable settlement.”  The school didn’t mention to which conference it will
apply. The Aggies have been linked to a possible move to the 12-
team  Southeastern Conference  in reports from the New York Times
and Fort Worth Star-Telegram.  “As I have indicated throughout this process, we are
seeking to generate greater visibility nationwide for  Texas A&M 
and our championship-caliber student-athletes, as well as secure
the necessary and stable financial resources to support our
athletic and academic programs,” Loftin said. “This is a 100-
year decision that we have addressed carefully and
methodically.”  Southeastern Conference  spokesman Charles Bloom said in a
telephone interview that the conference hasn’t received an
application from Texas A&M. He declined to comment on whether
the school had contacted the conference expressing interest.  Big 12 Response  Big 12 Board of Directors Chairman and University of
Missouri Chancellor Brady Deaton said in a statement that the
conference may explore expansion.  “We have a process in place that enables us to move
aggressively regarding the possible expansion of the conference
and to assure our members and student-athletes that we will take
advantage of the most productive opportunities in the best
interests of all,” Deaton said.  This year, there are three college football teams playing
in new  Bowl Championship Series  automatic-qualifying
conferences. The  University of Colorado  moved from the Big 12 to
the newly renamed  Pac-12 , and will be joined by the  University
of Utah . The  University of Nebraska  left the Big 12 for the Big
10 and  Texas Christian University  will join the Big East next
season.  Schools Move  The departures of  Nebraska  and  Colorado  left the Big 12
with 10 teams. Should the Aggies move, the nine-team conference
may lose the 13-year television contract worth more than $1
billion that it signed with  News Corp. (NWS) ’s Fox Sports in April,
the  Associated Press  reported without saying where it got the
information.  Texas A&M has been a member of the Big 12 since the
conference’s creation 16 years ago. Last season, the school won
nine conference championships and four national team titles,
both school records, according to the website.  Loftin didn’t specify a timeline for the school’s new
application in his letter to Beebe. He previously said that he
doesn’t want to prolong the process, according to the website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  