-- 
Exxon, Rosneft to Unveil International Projects by Next Year

-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 
2011-08-31T18:23:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/exxon-rosneft-to-unveil-joint-international-projects-by-2012.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and OAO Rosneft,
Russia’s biggest oil producer, will announce joint international
projects by early next year, an official for the Moscow-based
company said today during a conference call.  “We will be entering on friendly terms, on a non-
discriminatory basis,” Ruslan Svirshchevsky, Rosneft’s head of
business development, said on a conference call with investors
today. “We will complement our reserve base by quite
significant number.”  Exxon, the world’s biggest company by market value, and
state-run Rosneft yesterday agreed on an alliance that would
give the U.S. company access to Russia’s Arctic resources by
exploring three blocks in the Kara Sea, while allowing Rosneft
to gain experience in deep-water and tight  oil deposits  in the
U.S. and other areas.  Rosneft and Exxon agreed to get access to “several select
high-quality exploration and production opportunities” in the
U.S.,  Canada  and other countries, Svirshchevsky said, declining
to identify any projects. These include areas in the  Gulf of
Mexico  and onshore Texas, deep-water and tight  oil fields , and
some projects are in the development stage, he said.  “It was one of the aspects why the proposals from Exxon
Mobil was especially attractive to us,” Svirshchevsky said.
Exxon’s Hibernia project was listed in a presentation on
Rosneft’s website today. The Kommersant newspaper reported
earlier today that Rosneft may enter that development.  BP Deal Collapsed  Rosneft’s original plan to develop its Kara Sea blocks in
the Arctic with BP Plc collapsed after the British oil
producer’s local billionaire partners blocked the deal, which
also involved a $7.8 billion share swap.  U.S. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland described
the deal, which she valued at $3.2 billion, as “another example
of the expanding relationship” between the U.S. and  Russia .
Nuland said that President Barack Obama and President Dmitri Medvedev have been working on broadening economic and trade
ties.  She declined to comment on whether the deal would draw
scrutiny from the Committee on Foreign Investment in the  United
States , the inter-agency government group that reviews
transactions that may affect U.S. national security.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  