-- 
Jalil May Lack Support to Lead Libya After Helping to Spark Its Revolution

-- B y   C h r i s   S t e p h e n ,   M a s s o u d   D e r h a l l y   a n d   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/father-of-libya-revolution-may-not-lead-post-qaddafi-era.html
Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the first
cabinet minister to break ties with Libyan dictator  Muammar Qaddafi , has won praise from his countrymen and Western leaders.
Even so, it is unlikely that he will lead Libya after its
transition from a dictatorship to a promised democracy.  The 59-year-old former judge -- who created a government-
in-waiting from a loose collection of exiles, nationalists and
regime defectors -- is “a wise and respected man of
integrity,” said Hassan Tatanaki, 53, a Cairo-based Libyan oil-
industry businessman whose family is spread among Tripoli,
Cairo, London and  Abu Dhabi .  “His only problem is that he is not into the political
wheeling and dealing and maneuvering,” Tatanaki said in an Aug.
26 interview. “He’s someone who calls a spade a spade, and that
sometimes is a problem.”  Even under Qaddafi’s four-decade iron rule, Abdel Jalil
developed a reputation as the judge who didn’t shy away from
ruling against the regime. That attitude paradoxically led to
his promotion to justice minister in 2007 by Qaddafi’s son, Saif
al-Islam, who was in his final year of a doctorate at the  London
School  of Economics and fancied himself as a reformer.  For a few years, Abdel Jalil worked to improve Libya’s
criminal code and human-rights track record. U.S. diplomats, in
an embassy cable released this year by the group WikiLeaks, said
he was “considered to be a fair-minded technocrat.”  Defying the Regime  Then in January 2010, he did something unexpected that
astonished Libyans. Appearing on the ever-compliant state
television, he criticized the regime for failing to uphold
promises on reform. Even as he steered clear of direct
references to Qaddafi, his resignation as justice minister was
the pebble that set off an avalanche.  The kind of candor that won a place in the hearts of
Libyans might not find a place in the leadership once his
creation, the rebel’s National Transitional Council, has carried
out its mission of preparing for elections in a nation lacking a
constitution. Before succumbing to Qaddafi’s bloodless military
coup in 1969,  Libya  was a short-lived monarchy and an Italian
colony.  The NTC was formed on Feb. 27, 2011, in a Benghazi
courthouse, and on March 5 issued a statement calling itself
“the only legitimate body representing the people of Libya and
the Libyan state.” Still, it took more than four months of
lobbying to persuade the U.S. and 31 other nations to agree.  If recognition was achieved, much of the credit lies with
Mahmoud Jibril -- prime minister to Abdel Jalil’s chairman. The
axis of the NTC revolves around the two men who are of the same
age. Should Abdel Jalil step aside, Jibril is his heir apparent.  European Circuit  Flitting between Paris and  Rome , Jibril is the public-
affairs face of the revolution and spent much of his time
working the European circuit in search of aid, diplomatic
recognition and the unfreezing of Libyan assets.  It was the U.S.-educated former university professor who
led meetings and negotiations with President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
that resulted in France being the first country to publicly
assign legitimacy to the NTC as the representative of the Libyan
people.  Unlike Abdel Jalil, Jibril had made no public criticism of
the Qaddafi regime yet quickly joined the uprising and helped
form the NTC. His career displayed his ability to walk the line
between pleasing both a dictator at home and juggling a career
abroad as independent thinker.  Qaddafi, who was undergoing full-rehabilitation with the
West, appointed him head of Libya’s National Economic
Development Board in 2007.  Foreign Credentials  A graduate from Cairo University, Jibril earned a master’s
degree in political science from the  University of Pittsburgh 
and a doctorate in the same subject at the same university in
1985. He went on to teach business practice at the university
and wrote 10 books on strategic planning.  The different styles of Abdel Jalil and Jibril were put on
display when they dealt with the still-unexplained July 28
assassination of Abdel Fattah Younis, the rebel military chief
and regime defector. Abdel Jalil held an incoherent news
conference where he hinted at the involvement of pro-Qaddafi
forces and promised an investigation, which wrapped up
inconclusively. Jibril remained silent.  ‘Jury Is Out’  “They are good people and they mean well, but the jury is
out on both on them,” said Omar Turbi, an NTC adviser.  While a political future is assured for the NTC members who
may want that, the top job will be reserved to someone yet to
emerge, according Michele Dunne, a former specialist on  Middle
East  affairs at the U.S. State Department and White House. The
ability to mobilize assistance from abroad, including fluency in
English, might not be what Libyans look for when casting their
votes.  “The leaders of today won’t be those of Libya’s
tomorrow,” said Dunne, who heads the Rafik Hariri Center for
the Middle East at the Atlantic Council in  Washington . “That
chapter is yet to be written.”  European leaders such as  Italy ’s Silvio Berlusconi, who
went as far as kissing Qaddafi’s hand at a televised March 2010
summit, may struggle to form a bond with the new leadership. For
Italy, the challenge will be to prevent  France  from stealing
deals after Sarkozy led in the Western intervention on behalf of
the rebels.  Other Prospects  As Western powers jockey for oil deals and reconstruction
profits, some are looking beyond the NTC’s leadership. From the
non-rebel camp, Abdel Salam Jalloud, Qaddafi’s former right-hand
man until a falling out in the 1990s, has already won plaudits
in Italy, whose government is seeking to preserve Eni SpA’s
position as the biggest investor in Libya.  As Tripoli fell into rebel hands, Jalloud -- who helped
Qaddafi in the 1969 coup that brought him to power -- fled to
Rome, where he announced he will form a secular, liberal party
for Libya.  “I won’t make the mistake of picking who might be the best
leader for the Libyans, but I do believe that Jalloud has
excellent features and he can be one of the protagonists of the
new Libya,” Italian Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  told
reporters in Rome on Aug. 23. “He had a balanced role and he
did not stain his hands with blood.”  -- With assistance from Caroline Alexander in  London . Editors:
Terry Atlas, Jim Rubin.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Washington at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Stephen in Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  