-- 
FCC Still Reviewing AT&T’s T-Mobile Deal After Justice’s Antitrust Action

-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/fcc-review-of-at-t-deal-continues-as-agency-cites-own-concerns.html
Federal Communications Commission
Chairman  Julius Genachowski  expressed reservations about  AT&T
Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc. as
antitrust regulators challenged the deal.  The record before the FCC “raises serious concerns about
the impact of the proposed transaction on competition,”
Genachowski, a Democrat, said in an e-mail yesterday. The
agency’s process “is not complete,” he said.  The statement didn’t say when the FCC might decide AT&T’s
application to form the largest U.S. mobile-phone provider by
combining the second- and fourth-largest wireless carriers. The
Justice Department sued in federal court in  Washington  yesterday
to block the deal, saying it would lessen competition.  The FCC is on the 89th day of a review that is to take 180
days, according to the  agency’s website . The agency can stop and
restart its informal 180-day clock, and did so between July 20
and Aug. 26 as it awaited more data from AT&T.  A decision on the transaction would need to be made by a
vote of the FCC’s politically appointed commissioners, who
comprise three Democrats and one Republican following a
resignation.  A vote to challenge a merger sends the deal to an
administrative law judge at the FCC, who decides whether to
accept the commissioners’ action.  ‘Substantial Questions’  That process would take “months at the very least,”
Andrew Jay Schwartzman, policy director of Media Access Project,
a Washington-based nonprofit  law firm , said yesterday during a
news conference.  With the challenge by the  Justice Department , “we have an
increased likelihood the FCC will find there are substantial
questions that justify a hearing,” Schwartzman said.  The FCC considers a broader array of factors than the
antitrust standard used by the Justice Department, which focuses
on how competition is affected, Schwartzman said.  “I don’t think they’re going to stop,” he said, referring
to the FCC’s review.  The Justice Department has worked with the FCC “very
closely” on the merger, Sharis Pozen, the acting head of the
department’s antitrust division, said yesterday at a news
conference.  The FCC has never approved a significant merger being
challenged in court by the Justice Department, said an FCC
official who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
agency’s review isn’t concluded.  ‘Stop the Process’  “The FCC is most likely going to stop the process and wait
until the court decides,” Andrew Lipman, a Washington-based
communications lawyer with Bingham McCutchen LLP, said in an
interview.  “It’s unlikely in the extreme that the FCC would go
forward and approve the transaction while the matter is still
pending in federal district court,” Lipman said.  The FCC’s other two Democratic commissioners also issued
statements yesterday, with Michael Copps citing “numerous
concerns” including the effects of the transaction on consumer
choice and innovation, and Mignon Clyburn saying the agency is
“carefully considering the competitive issues raised by the
application.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washingtont .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmest . 