-- 
Fed Prepared Ground for Possible Easing as Officials Considered Stimulus

-- B y   J e a n n i n e   A v e r s a   a n d   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-08-31T08:37:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/fed-prepares-ground-for-possible-easing-as-officials-debate-stimulus-moves.html
Federal Reserve policy makers
debated ways to invigorate the recovery and hiring this month,
potentially laying the groundwork for action at their next
gathering in late September.  Minutes of their closed-door meeting released yesterday in
Washington showed that a few members of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  favored a “more substantial move” at the Aug. 9
meeting beyond the pledge adopted by the panel to hold rates at
record lows for the next two years.  Stocks rallied on bets the minutes indicated growing
support for further steps to bolster a recovery hobbled by
unemployment stuck above 9 percent. The Fed may decide at its
Sept. 20-21 meeting to replace short-term  Treasury securities  in
its $1.65 trillion portfolio with longer-term bonds in a bid to
lower rates on everything from mortgages to  car loans , said
economists, including  Michael Feroli  at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and
 Dana Saporta  at Credit Suisse.  “The discussion of the various options kind of left you a
sense of not whether they are going to do more, but what are
they going to do,” said Feroli, chief U.S. economist at
JPMorgan Chase in New York and a former Fed economist.  European stocks gained for a third day, with the Stoxx 600
Index climbing 1.3 percent to 233.67 at 9:26 a.m. in  London .
U.S. stock futures rose, signaling the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index may advance for a fourth day. S&P 500 contracts expiring
in September climbed 0.9 percent to 1,215.1. The index increased
0.2 percent yesterday and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note
fell to 2.18 percent from 2.26 percent.  Range of Tools  Fed officials this month discussed a range of tools,
including buying more  government bonds  and lengthening the
average maturity in its portfolio, without coming to an
agreement on what they might do should the economy weaken
further. They will more fully debate their options when they
gather next month for a two-day meeting that was originally
scheduled to last one day.  “The consensus view is that while the Fed doesn’t have all
the answers, it could still have a net positive effect” on the
economy, said Saporta, U.S. economist at Credit Suisse in New
York. “And, I believe that will be the determination at the
September meeting.”  Encourage Lending  Another step the Fed might take would be to lower the 0.25
percent interest rate it pays banks on the $1.6 trillion in
excess reserves they keep at the central bank to encourage them
to increase lending to consumers and companies. It also could
pledge to keep its balance sheet near a record $2.86 trillion
for an “extended period” or for a specific time.  Yet some Fed officials “judged that none of the tools
available” to the central bank “would likely do much to
promote a faster economic recovery,” the minutes said.  These officials were concerned that providing additional
stimulus would risk boosting inflation without providing a
“significant benefit” in the form of faster growth or lower
unemployment.  While Fed policy makers meeting this month didn’t
anticipate a recession, several said the recovery was “still
somewhat tentative” and was “vulnerable to adverse shocks.”  Consumer confidence  fell to the lowest point in 28 months
in August, a report yesterday showed, raising the risk
households will cut back on the spending that accounts for 70
percent of the economy.  Rising Odds  “The odds are rising that we will see more action to aid
the economy at the September meeting,” said  James O’Sullivan ,
chief economist at MF Global Inc. in  New York .  Reports in coming days may provide fresh evidence of
economic weakness. Hiring probably slowed in August, with
payrolls expanding by 75,000 after an increase of 117,000 in
July, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News
survey of economists ahead of a Sept. 2 Labor Department report.
Unemployment probably stayed at 9.1 percent.  Fed staff at the August meeting cut estimates for gross
domestic product in the second half of 2011. That was the fourth
consecutive downward revision to its near-term outlook, the
longest series of downward revisions since the recovery began
two years ago.  “Many participants saw increased downside risks to the
outlook for economic growth,” the minutes said.  A stock-market rout leading up to the August meeting
“mostly” reflected data pointing to weaker economic growth in
the U.S. and around the globe, Fed officials said.  ‘Considerably Slower’  To energize a recovery that this year has turned out to be
“considerably slower” than anticipated, the Fed in a 7-3
decision agreed to keep its benchmark  interest rate  at a record
low near zero at least until mid-2013.  That marked the first time the central bank made a
commitment to hold rates at such levels for a specific time. The
new pledge, which replaced an earlier commitment to keep
borrowing costs near zero for an “extended period,” generated
the most dissent Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has encountered
since he took over the central bank in 2006.  Some officials argued that the pledge should have been
linked to achieving “explicit values” for unemployment or
inflation. Doing so would help investors and the public better
understand the Fed’s “likely reaction to future economic
developments,” they said. Others raised questions about how
such a target would be chosen.  Bernanke, in his Aug. 26 speech at the central bank’s
 Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , economic symposium, said the central bank
still has tools to boost growth, without specifying what they
were or whether they would be deployed.  Last year, the Fed chief used his Jackson Hole speech to
lay the groundwork for a second round of bond purchases, also
known as quantitative easing. The central bank decided in
November to buy $600 billion of Treasuries through June 2011,
following the $1.7 trillion first round of purchases that
concluded in March 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net ;
Jeannine Aversa in Washington at 
 javersa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  