-- 
Fiat Said to Consider Shifting Italy SUV Production to U.S.

-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 
2011-08-31T15:39:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/fiat-said-to-consider-shifting-italian-suv-production-to-u-s-on-euro-rise.html
Fiat SpA (F) , the Italian carmaker which
controls Chrysler Group LLC, may shift planned production of
Jeep and Alfa Romeo brand sport-utility vehicles from its oldest
plant in Turin to  North America  and build a small city car at
the factory instead, a person familiar with the matter said.  Fiat may assemble a yet-to-be built subcompact car at the
Mirafiori plant after the strengthening euro against the dollar
made the possibility of building SUVs mainly destined for the
U.S. a less competitive option in  Europe , said the person, who
declined to be identified before an official announcement. A
final decision hasn’t been made, the person added.  Fiat last November announced a 1 billion-euro ($1.44
billion) investment to make as many as 280,000 Jeep and  Alfa
Romeo  SUVs at the Mirafiori plant starting in the fourth quarter
of 2012. The euro has gained about 9 percent against the dollar
since then, raising the cost of building vehicles in Europe
bound for the U.S. market.  “From a product-mix point of view, it makes a lot of
sense,” AT Kearney analyst Marco Santino said by phone. “The
U.S. would keep know-how of SUV building, it would help the
launch of Alfa Romeo in North America and it would be a more
competitive product due to lower costs of production.”  Shares Advance  Fiat rose 18 cents, or 4.3 percent, to 4.33 euros in Milan
trading today. The shares have dropped 35 percent this year,
valuing the company at 5.3 billion euros.  The automaker may discuss the small car in Turin tomorrow
when Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Marchionne  hosts the first
meeting of Fiat and Chrysler’s single management team, the
person said. A Fiat spokesman, who confirmed the meeting,
declined to comment on the production plan. Fiat unions today
asked for a meeting with the company to discuss the Mirafiori
plant’s future.  Fiat is planning models like the subcompact to turn around
its European operations after posting losses in its biggest
market and losing ground to competitors. Marchionne last month
appointed purchasing chief Gianni Coda to run Fiat and Chrysler
in the region. Coda starts his new job tomorrow.  Fiat’s European market share shrank to 7.2 percent in the
first half from 8.1 percent a year earlier as deliveries fell 13
percent to 530,228 vehicles. Fiat aims to recover market share
in the second half with new models, including the Fiat Freemont,
a European version of Chrysler’s Dodge Journey SUV, and the
Lancia Ypsilon subcompact.  Management Changes  Fiat said yesterday that sales chief  Andrea Formica , who
ran Toyota Motor Corp.’s sales in Europe before joining the
Turin-based company in September 2010, resigned after less than
a year and will be replaced by Lorenzo Sistino, head of the
carmaker’s light commercial-vehicle unit.  Marchionne, while confirming his commitment to invest at
the Turin facility, told Piedmont Region President Roberto Cota
Aug. 29 that he may change the production plans for the plant.  “Fiat is evaluating which model it will build at
Mirafiori,” Cota said after meeting the CEO.  The Italian carmaker plans to start production of a small
city car in 2013, according to its 2010 business plan.  Italy’s largest manufacturer is spending 20 billion euros in
its home country through 2014 to improve factories and vehicle
development in exchange for union concessions on work rules.  Referendum Win  Marchionne won workers’ support for Mirafiori’s investment
plan in exchange for measures to limit strikes and curtail
absenteeism in January as 54 percent of the plant’s 5,500
workers approved the deal in a referendum, which was opposed by
Fiat’s biggest union.  The workforce at the 2 million-square-meter (494 acre)
Mirafiori site, which was inaugurated in 1939 in the presence of
fascist dictator  Benito Mussolini , reached 50,000 in the 1970s.
The number fell in subsequent decades as Fiat opened plants in
the south and moved production abroad.  Fiat increased its Chrysler stake to 53.5 percent July 21.
The Italian carmaker expects to hold 58.5 percent of the third-
biggest U.S. automaker by the end of 2011, after getting 5
percent in return for developing a fuel-efficient car for
Chrysler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 