-- 
Financial Instability Won’t Derail British Bank Overhaul, Vince Cable Says

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 
2011-09-01T06:27:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/financial-crisis-won-t-derail-u-k-bank-overhaul-cable-says.html
Business Secretary Vince Cable said
global financial instability underscored the need to “press
ahead” rather than delay a regulatory overhaul of Britain’s
banking industry.  With the government-appointed Independent Commission on
Banking due to report on Sept. 12, Cable questioned suggestions
from banks and industry lobbyists that new rules be postponed
given the U.K.’s faltering economic recovery.  “At times of financial instability, it’s all the more
important that we press ahead with reforms,” Cable said in a
telephone interview. “I’m confident that when the banking
commission reports in two weeks’ time, we will do exactly
that.”  The ICB recommended in April that the U.K.’s biggest banks
should boost capital, introduce plans for an orderly bankruptcy
and erect firebreaks around consumer units to boost financial
stability. If accepted, the plans should be implemented over a
lengthy period, banks including  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) ,
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  said in July.  “The business community in the U.K. expects that
government will indeed reform banking and make it better able to
serve the real economy,” Cable said yesterday.  Cable, a Liberal Democrat, is at odds with his Conservative
coalition partners, Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Chancellor
of the Exchequer  George Osborne , who are said to favor
implementation of the proposals over several years, the
Independent newspaper reported yesterday.  Much of the overhaul will probably be delayed until after
the general election scheduled for 2015, the Financial Times
reported today, citing unidentified government officials.  ‘Barking Mad’  John Cridland , director general of the  Confederation of
British Industry , said in a BBC interview yesterday that it
would be “barking mad” to implement such plans at the moment
given the U.K.’s fragile economy.  “The big banks are important, influential members of the
CBI, so I would expect him to speak up for them,” Cable said.  Barclays Finance Director Chris Lucas said at a conference
yesterday that the “period over which implementation is
required will be just as important” as the scope of the
proposals.  RBS called for a “lengthy implementation timeline” if
firebreaks are adopted, the lender said in a submission to the
ICB released on July 13. In their responses, Lloyds said it
wanted a “long” transition period, Barclays said the
commission’s plan should be implemented over an “extended
period” to minimize unintended consequences and  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  said it wanted “a lengthy observation period.”  Barclays, RBS and Lloyds may need to reduce assets by 658
billion pounds ($1.07 trillion) to maintain profitability if the
ICB insists on consumer-unit firebreaks, JPMorgan Cazenove
analysts said.  The U.K. lenders could be forced to shed lower-yielding
assets to improve returns. So-called ring-fencing will also
caused a jump in bank funding costs, the analysts wrote.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  