-- 
Five Mile Said to Buy $700 Million in Red Roof Debt to Take Over 143 Inns

-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-08-31T11:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/five-mile-said-to-buy-700-million-in-red-roof-debt-to-take-over-143-inns.html
A joint venture led by Five Mile
Capital Partners LLC gained control of 143 hotels by acquiring
$700 million of Red Roof Inns Inc. debt, according to a person
familiar with the transaction.  Five Mile and Westmont Hospitality Group bought the loans
on the economy-level hotels on Aug. 25, said Andrew Alexander,
president of Columbus, Ohio-based Red Roof Inns. He declined to
say how much the partnership paid. The debt was purchased for 50
cents on the dollar, said the person familiar with the deal, who
declined to be identified because the transaction’s private.  The venture contributed $70 million toward renovations in
addition to the purchase price as part of the deal. A
partnership led by Dune Real Estate Partners, which bought debt
on Red Roof Inns earlier this year and gained control of 51
hotels, provided $20 million for upgrades.  “Both of these transactions were completed as acquisitions
at a discount to par value,” Alexander said in a telephone
interview. He wouldn’t say how big the discount was. “That has
allowed them to de-lever the assets and move forward with the
renovations.”  Debra Chun, a spokeswoman for  Stamford , Connecticut-based
Five Mile, declined to comment on the acquisition. A
representative for New York-based Dune and Dorraine Lallani, a
spokeswoman for Westmont’s U.S. offices in Houston, didn’t
return calls seeking comment.  The completion of the Red Roof purchases comes as
increasing market turmoil and concerns that the U.S. may be
close to another recession are putting pressure on hotel
transactions. Last week, Cerberus Capital Management LP and
 Chatham Lodging Trust (CLDT)  terminated their $1.1 billion agreement to
buy 64 hotels from  Innkeepers USA Trust .  ‘A Good Sign’  Red Roof, which has about 350 hotels in the U.S., “has
outperformed the economy segment every month since the beginning
of the year,” Alexander said. “It’s a good sign to investors
and potential lenders.”  Revenue per available room, a lodging industry measure of
occupancy and rate, increased 7.1 percent this year through July
at Red Roof, Alexander said. That compares with a 5.8 percent
revpar gain for all U.S. economy hotels, according to  Smith
Travel Research Inc.  of Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has declined 6.1 percent in
August as S&P cut its rating on  U.S. debt  for the first time in
history.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and JPMorgan Chase & Co. trimmed
forecasts for U.S. growth earlier this month, while Morgan
Stanley cut its estimate for 2011 global expansion, saying the
U.S. and  Europe  are “dangerously close to recession.”  ‘A Basic Retrenchment’  “For private-equity investors, and more importantly for
lenders, there’s a basic retrenchment with the thought that
maybe we need to step back a little and slow down major
acquisitions and see whether the economic forecasts are
realistic,”  David Loeb , a hotel analyst at Milwaukee-based
Robert W. Baird & Co., said in an Aug. 22 interview after the
termination of the Innkeepers acquisition was announced.  Five Mile also is in talks with Innkeepers, two people with
knowledge of the discussions said last week. Five Mile lost to
Cerberus in a May auction of the Innkeepers properties.  Red Roof’s owners, who included Westmont and Citigroup, had
been in talks with creditors since defaulting on about $754
million in loans tied to 127 hotels in 2009, the Wall Street
Journal reported in May.  The Red Roof upgrades will involve complete room and lobby
renovations, including new carpets, hardwood floors and flat-
screen televisions, by the end of next year, Alexander said. The
upgrades will start with hotels in such large cities as  New
York ,  Boston ,  Chicago  and Miami.  All Red Roof properties in the deals have signed franchise
agreements with Red Roof Franchising LLC and will continue to be
managed by RRI West Management, a Red Roof Inns affiliate,
Alexander said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  