-- 
Former NHL Player Wade Belak Is Found Dead in Toronto Hotel Room at 35

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-09-01T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/former-nhl-player-wade-belak-is-found-dead-in-toronto-hotel-room-at-35.html
Wade Belak, who totaled 1,263
penalty minutes over 14 National Hockey League seasons, was
found dead in his Toronto condominium yesterday. He was 35.  Belak, who retired in March, is the third NHL enforcer to
die this offseason. Derek Boogaard of the  New York Rangers  was
found dead May 13 in  Minneapolis  after an accidental overdose of
 prescription drugs , while Winnipeg Jets forward Rick Rypien
committed suicide two weeks ago at his home in  Alberta , Canada.  Belak’s cause of death isn’t known, though foul play isn’t
suspected, the NHL said on its website.  “The National Hockey League family mourns the passing of
Wade Belak, who competed to the utmost every minute of his NHL
career,” NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman said. “Our hearts go
out to Wade’s loved ones, his friends, his former teammates and
to all who feel the horrible void of this tragedy.”  The 6-foot-5, 222-pound Belak played with  Colorado , Calgary,
Toronto, Florida and Nashville before arthritis in his pelvis
forced him from the sport. He had seven seasons with more than
100 penalty minutes, including a career-high 196 with the Maple
Leafs in 2002-03.  Belak entered the NHL as a first-round draft pick of the
Quebec Nordiques in 1994 and could play forward and defense,
though his primary role was as an enforcer. He totaled only
eight goals and 25 assists over 549 NHL games.  Belak played 340 regular season and playoff games for the
Maple Leafs from 2001 to 2008.  “He was the consummate team player on and off the ice,”
Toronto said in a statement. “He will be deeply missed.”  TV, Radio Host  Physical on the ice, Belak was a popular personality off it.
He hosted a television program while in  Canada , a radio show
while in Nashville and had been scheduled to participate in a
season of  “Battle of the Blades,” the Canadian Broadcasting
Corp.’s version of the U.S.’s “Dancing With the Stars.”  “His affable personality made him popular with teammates,
fans and media,” NHL Players Association Executive Director Don Fehr said in a statement. “He will undoubtedly be greatly
missed throughout the entire hockey community.”  Belak, Boogaard and Rypien all developed reputations as
fighters.  Boogaard, who was 28, totaled 589 penalty minutes over six
NHL seasons, while Rypien, who was 27, had 226 penalty minutes
in limited playing time over six years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  