-- 
Former Tennessee Basketball Coach Bruce Pearl Takes Grocer’s Marketing Job

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-08-31T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/former-tennessee-basketball-coach-bruce-pearl-takes-grocer-s-marketing-job.html
Former  University of Tennessee  coach
Bruce Pearl took a job as a marketing executive for a grocery
wholesaler a week after being banned from college basketball
recruiting for three years.  Pearl, 51, will start work tomorrow as vice president of
marketing with  H.T. Hackney Co. , a 110-year-old Knoxville-based
company with about $4 billion in revenue from grocery,
furniture, gas and oil, owner and Chief Executive Officer Bill Sansom said in a telephone interview.  “I have a lot to learn and I have a lot of catching up to
do,” Pearl said yesterday in a telephone interview. “I’ll
figure out what my role is and hopefully make an impact.”  Pearl was fired in March after six seasons as the
Volunteers’ basketball coach following an admission that he lied
to National Collegiate Athletic Association investigators about
hosting recruits during a cookout at his home. He was banned
last week for failing to monitor the program and for his lack of
cooperation with the investigation. The university was also put
on probation for two years.  Sansom, who spent 15 years as a member of the Tennessee
board of trustees, met Pearl in a Bible study group shortly
after the coach arrived at the university. The men were dining
with their wives a few weeks ago when Sansom suggested that
Pearl consider a position at H.T. Hackney.  “Coaching basketball isn’t a whole lot different from
running a company,” Sansom said. “Bruce is a motivator and
heck of a guy who will help us with our sales and marketing.”  Marketing Degree  Pearl received a marketing and economics degree from Boston
College School of Management and said the opportunity to keep
his family in Knoxville and work with Sansom convinced him to
accept the post.  “I’m going to work real hard to reward him for this
decision,” Pearl said.  Pearl has two children working in the Knoxville area and
two more in high school, according to an e-mailed release from
H.T. Hackney.  Pearl went 145-61 in six years with the Volunteers, making
him the most successful coach in the conference during his
tenure, according to the release. He led the Volunteers to six
consecutive NCAA tournaments and the first No. 1 ranking in
school history.  He said his focus is on H.T. Hackney and not on any return
to coaching.  “I won’t be playing in front of 20,000 people, but the
margin of victory and defeat can be very small in this
industry,” Pearl said. “I’m very fortunate to be able to land
on my feet in a very wonderful way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  