-- 
Franc Gains as Swiss Central Bank Refrains From Weakening Steps; Euro Dips

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-08-31T21:20:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/franc-rallies-as-snb-refrains-from-measures-to-curb-advance-euro-weakens.html
The franc rose versus all its 16
major peers as the  Swiss National Bank  refrained from announcing
new steps to curb its gains, after intervening or referring to
the currency’s strength on the first three Wednesdays of August.  The dollar erased earlier losses versus the euro as
stronger-than-forecast economic data damped bets the  Federal
Reserve  may move to stimulate growth. Mexico’s peso rallied on
optimism growth in the U.S., its biggest trade partner, will
quicken. The franc gained the most versus the greenback and yen
since Aug. 9, the day the Fed pledged to keep  interest rates  at
almost zero until mid-2013, as the Swiss government unveiled an
870 million-franc ($1.1 billion) economic-stimulus package.  The lack of central-bank action “looks to have driven the
Swiss franc higher,” said  Brian Dolan , chief strategist at
FOREX.com, a unit of the online currency-trading firm Gain
Capital in Bedminster,  New Jersey . “As we get this better data,
it reduces the possibility of further Fed easing, and that turns
into a dollar positive.”  The franc gained 2.2 percent to 1.1586 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York and climbed as much as 2.7 percent to 1.1526. The
Swiss currency advanced as much as 2.5 percent to 79.94 centimes
per dollar before trading at 80.60 centimes, up 1.8 percent. The
yen gained 0.6 percent to 110.16 per euro. It strengthened 0.1
percent to 76.66 per dollar.  The euro fell 0.5 percent to $1.4369, from $1.4441
yesterday. It declined 0.2 percent in August, its second monthly
loss.  Mexico ’s peso advanced 1.6 percent to 12.3328 per dollar
and touched 12.2849, the strongest level in a week.  Factory Orders Rise  The euro fell versus most major peers as Commerce
Department data showed orders placed with U.S. factories rose in
July by the most in four months, increasing 2.4 percent. A
Bloomberg News survey forecast a 2 percent gain. The Institute
for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business barometer fell
less than projected this month, declining to 56.5. A Bloomberg
survey estimated the gauge would drop to 53.3.  Data from ADP Employer Services earlier showed companies in
the U.S. added 91,000 workers to payrolls in August, less than
the 100,000 forecast. A government report on Sept. 2 is
projected to show U.S. nonfarm payroll growth slowed to 70,000
jobs this month from 117,000 in July.  Minutes from Fed policy makers’ meeting on Aug. 9 released
yesterday showed that a few, unidentified officials “felt that
recent economic developments justified a more substantial move”
beyond the rate pledge adopted at the meeting. The central bank
next meets on Sept. 20.  Quantitative Easing  The Fed bought $600 billion of Treasuries from November to
June in a second round of quantitative easing to stimulate the
economy. IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index dropped
3.9 percent over the eight-month period as the extra liquidity
inundated the market with supply.  The euro extended losses as  Greece  denied media reports
that a New York-based legal adviser was hired to prepare the
country to leave the euro area. Greece said on July 27 it
retained New York-based Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen and Hamilton LLP
to aid in a voluntary bond exchange and debt buyback plan, part
of the European Union’s plan to stem its sovereign-debt crisis.  The Swiss franc has surged 10 percent this year against a
basket of nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.  Swiss authorities announced measures to halt gains in the
franc or released statements calling it “overvalued,” on Aug.
3, 10 and 17. The SNB declined to comment today on currency
intervention when contacted by Bloomberg News.  ‘Extraordinary Situation’  Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said he doesn’t
expect the franc to weaken any time soon after the government
announced the spending package to support tourism and exports.
It will help counter the impact of a strengthening currency on
the nation’s economy, according to a government statement.  “The package supports the Swiss economy in an extraordinary
situation,” Economy Minister Johann Schneider-Ammann said at a
briefing. “We’ll probably have to live with the strong franc for
a longer period of time.”  The euro fell today as data showed unemployment in the 17-
nation region held at 10 percent in July from the previous
month, when adjusted for seasonal swings, the EU’s statistics
office in Luxembourg said in a statement.  Norway’s Krone  Norway’s krone gained the most over the past month against
the nine counterparts tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Currency Indexes. The currency rose 1.6 percent. The Swiss franc
dropped 1.5 percent, and the euro rose 1.1 percent.  New
Zealand ’s dollar fell the most, dropping 2.1 percent.  New Zealand’s dollar had its biggest monthly decline in a
year versus the yen after a survey by ANZ National Bank Ltd.
showed business confidence declined in August.  A net 34.4 percent of companies surveyed in the nation
expect the economy will improve over the next 12 months, down
from 47.6 percent in July, according to the survey, released
today. The net figure subtracts the number of pessimists from
the number of optimists.  The  New Zealand dollar  was little changed at 65.48 yen and
lost 3.1 percent this month. It rose 0.1 percent to 85.41 U.S.
cents, from 85.31 cents, and slid 2.9 percent in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net ;
Garth Theunissen in London 
 gtheunissen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  