-- 
Libyan Rebels to Get Cash as Qaddafi Threatens Nation ‘Engulfed in Flames’

-- B y   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i   a n d   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t
-- 
2011-09-02T06:35:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/free-libya-awaits-paris-unveiling-as-new-leaders-push-un-to-release-assets.html
Leaders of the international
coalition that helped topple  Muammar Qaddafi  pledged economic
and military support to  Libya ’s new administration as the former
strongman vowed a long insurgency against his opponents.  A group of about 60 nations, dubbed the “Friends of
Libya,” agreed at a meeting in Paris yesterday to release
billions of dollars in frozen funds for humanitarian and
reconstruction needs. They also promised to maintain military
pressure on forces loyal to Qaddafi, now in hiding, and urged
Libya’s new leaders to avoid recriminations and to set up a
functioning state quickly.  “We are all committed to returning to Libya the money of
yesterday for the building of tomorrow,” French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  said from a podium at a press briefing that he
shared with leaders of Britain, Qatar, the  United Nations  and
the National Transitional Council, the umbrella group of Libyan
forces that ousted Qaddafi. NATO would continue air strikes
“for as long as Qaddafi remains a threat,” he said.  The meeting underscored the urgency of maintaining momentum
following a five-month allied military effort that climaxed in
August as the rebels took the capital, Tripoli.  On the Run  Since then, Qaddafi has been on the run, while some of his
family has taken shelter in neighboring Algeria.  Family members were taken to Algeria by a team of 35 former
South African special forces members who were paid $15,000 each
for the operation, Johannesburg’s New Age newspaper reported
today, citing an unidentified person who declined a request to
take part in the mission.  Algeria ’s El Watan newspaper, citing an Algerian government
official, said that Qaddafi has been in the Libyan border town
of Ghadamis after Algerian President Abdelaziz Bouteflika
refused to take his telephone call. That account could not be
confirmed.  In taped comments broadcast by Syrian-based Arrai
television yesterday, Qaddafi said his remaining loyalists in
Bani Walid and Sirte won’t heed an ultimatum by the NTC that
they lay down their arms.  “We will not give up. We are not women,” Qaddafi said in
the audio recording. “Let the fight be long, let Libya be
engulfed in flames.”  ‘Fight The Colonizers’  “Get ready to fight the colonizers like your fathers and
grandfathers did,” he said in a second message hours later in a
calmer voice, alluding to resistance during the half-century of
colonial rule after Italy took the territory from the  Ottoman
Empire  in 1911. “Get ready for a guerrilla war, a city war.”  Mustafa Abdel Jalil, chairman of the NTC, said that Qaddafi
“is still a threat” and that he welcomes the continued support
of the  North Atlantic Treaty Organization .  The rebels extended by a week a Sept. 3 deadline for
Qaddafi loyalists in his hometown of Sirte to surrender, the
council’s U.K. coordinator, Guma Al Gumaty, said yesterday in a
telephone interview.  “The negotiations are going well, and we believe that this
will end peacefully before the new deadline expires,” he said.  The one-day Paris meeting at the presidential Elysee Palace
marked a shift from backing rebel aspirations to supporting the
new leaders of Libya as they try to establish order and restore
their economy.  Resuming Oil Exports  The urgency in unfreezing Libyan government assets comes in
part because it may be a year or more before full resumption of
oil exports. Shokri Ghanem, Libya’s former top oil official who
defected earlier this year, said he doesn’t expect crude
production to return to pre-conflict levels of more than 1.5
million barrels a day until the end of 2012, according to the
Sept. 5 issue of Petroleum Intelligence Weekly.  The nations that took part in the Paris meeting included
those that participated in providing air cover for the rebels --
such as the U.S.,  France , Britain, Italy and Qatar -- as well as
 Germany  and others that refused to commit military forces.  “Some people thought there might be chaos the moment the
regime fell,” U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said. “We
cannot afford a failed state on  Europe ’s borders.”  The U.S. was represented by Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  and the UN by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. Other
attendees included German Chancellor Angela Merkel, Italian
Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi , Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Zapatero, Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper , and
Qatar’s Prime Minister Sheik Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani.  UN Role Envisioned  China  sent vice foreign minister Zhai Jun, while Russia
sent  Mikhail Margelov , special envoy for  Africa  and the  Middle
East . Russia recognized the NTC as Libya’s legitimate
government. Tunisia and  Morocco  dispatched their prime
ministers, and  Egypt  its foreign minister.  The transitional council needs to convert from an anti-
Qaddafi military alliance into a caretaker government able to
unite regional and political factions, restart the country’s oil
exports and organize elections.  Ban said the allied leaders agreed that the UN would have a
leading role in establishing the framework of a civil society
after the end of a regime that has been in place for more than
four decades.  Italy  will offer carabinieri military police to
help train police and border guard forces, Berlusconi said after
the meeting.  In remarks at the general meeting, Clinton said the UN
should begin lifting sanctions against Libya and urged allies to
provide the NTC with financial support.  Unfreezing Assets  She announced that the U.S. has so far released more than
$700 million from a total $1.5 billion in assets that have been
unfrozen to help the NTC pay for fuel and civilian operational
costs and salaries. Clinton said Libya’s new leaders have a
responsibility to form an inclusive democracy and avoid
reprisals and violent extremism.  As the new leaders consolidate power, Clinton said the U.S.
and others “will support their efforts to demobilize and
integrate fighters into a single security force.”  France wants to release 1.5 billion euros ($2.1 billion) by
the end of the week, said a French official who briefed
reporters on the condition he not be named.  The European Union lifted sanctions on 28 Libyan entities
because anti-Qaddafi forces control them, the 27-nation bloc
said yesterday in an e-mailed statement in Brussels.  The Libyan entities will be disclosed today, when the
decision is published in the EU Official Journal. Among the
businesses are six port authorities, a person familiar with the
matter said Aug. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gregory Viscusi in Paris at 
 gviscusi@bloomberg.net ;
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 