-- 
German CDU’s Kauder Says ‘Confident’ EFSF to Get Majority

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-08-31T12:53:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/german-cdu-s-kauder-says-confident-efsf-to-get-majority-1-.html
Volker Kauder , the floor leader for
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democratic bloc,
said he’s “confident” a bill to enhance the European Financial
Stability Facility will be passed with a coalition majority.  Kauder, speaking to reporters in Berlin after the Cabinet
backed the EFSF changes, said that coalition lawmakers will
develop “guidelines” for the involvement of parliament in
drafting the legislation during a two-day conclave that began
today. The guidelines will be put to the ruling parliamentary
groups on Sept. 5, with amendments lodged after talks with the
opposition to get them on board, he said.  A Finance Ministry preamble to the draft bill gives
parliament the right to decide how it participates in EFSF
operations, satisfying a key demand of coalition lawmakers who
had complained about a lack of consultation, threatening to
derail the package, a copy obtained by Bloomberg News shows. It
also invites lawmakers to make proposals on separate legislation
due to go to parliament in October on  Germany ’s contribution to
a second aid package for  Greece .  Kauder said that the parliamentary heads of the three
coalition parties had asked for the omission. “It’s not the job
of the government to make a proposal on the contribution of the
German parliament,” he said. “That’s something for us to do.”  The group leaders “are generally agreed that there shall
be a staggered procedure in German parliament,” he said. “But
the implementation of such a rescue umbrella has to be possible
operationally without the need to have lengthy public debates in
parliament.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  