-- 
German Retail Sales Unexpectedly Steady in July After Surge

-- B y   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 
2011-08-31T06:44:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/german-july-retail-sales-remained-unchanged.html
German retail sales unexpectedly
held steady in July after surging the most in more than three
years the previous month.  Sales, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings, were
unchanged from June, when they jumped 4.5 percent, the Federal
Statistics Office in Wiesbaden said today. Economists had
forecast a 1.5 percent decline, the median of 20 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey shows. Sales fell 1.6 percent in the year.  Falling unemployment and retreating energy costs have
boosted household purchasing power even as a debt crisis in the
euro region’s periphery and slowing global growth weigh on
 consumer confidence . The Bundesbank forecasts the German economy
will expand about 3 percent this year as rising domestic demand
helps compensate for a moderation in export orders.  “Unemployment is still declining but wages aren’t rising
significantly so a consumption boom is rather unlikely,” said
 Ralph Solveen , head of economic research at Commerzbank AG in
Frankfurt. “Exports are slowing as the global economy loses
steam. Private consumption is becoming more important as a
result, but I don’t see it becoming the driver of German
growth.”  July had one trading day less than the same month last
year, the statistics office said.  Hiring Versus Firing  Surging demand for cars is boosting hiring at German
companies including  MAN SE (MAN) ,  Continental AG (CON)  and Daimler AG’s
Mercedes-Benz division. Unemployment is at 7 percent, the lowest
since German reunification two decades ago.  Germany ’s Bertelsmann AG, Europe’s largest media company,
said today that profit attributable to shareholders in the first
six months of the year increased 7.6 percent and sales rose 1.9
percent, driven mainly by the television and book publishing
business.  Still, EON AG, Germany’s largest utility, will eliminate as
many as 11,000 jobs after first-half profit plunged because of
the cost of shutting nuclear reactors.  German growth almost ground to a halt in the second
quarter, adding to signs that the risk of a renewed recession in
the euro region is increasing.  German business and investor confidence plummeted this
month on concern that  Europe  won’t be able to contain its debt
crisis. Consumer sentiment will drop to a 10-month low in
September, the GfK market research company said last week.  Bundesbank board member Andreas Dombret said on Aug. 25 the
economic recovery in Germany and the euro area will continue,
“albeit at a more moderate pace than before.” While markets
have recently experienced turmoil, the underlying development of
the real economy “is not as dire as these turbulences might
suggest,” he said.  Germany’s Fielmann AG, Europe’s largest chain of optical
stores, said on Aug. 24 that second-quarter net income rose 3.5
percent as customers bought more discount eyeglasses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jana Randow in  Frankfurt  at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  