-- 
German Offshore Wind Developer Bard Hires U.S. Bank for Sale

-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 
2011-08-31T16:02:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/german-offshore-wind-developer-bard-hires-u-s-bank-for-sale.html
Bard Holding GmbH hired a U.S.
investment bank to sell the company, a spokesman for the German
offshore wind developer said.  “We are looking for some buyers,” Andreas Koelling said
today by phone. Bard was founded in 2003 by Arngolt Bekker, who
at age 76 has decided to sell the company, Koelling said. He
declined to identify the  U.S. bank  involved in the sale.  The owners would sell 87.5 percent of Emden-based Bard,
Koelling said, speaking from the company’s Bremen office. “We
got some potential buyers from  Europe  and even from  Southeast
Asia .” The bank was appointed last week, he said.  The sale of the whole company including its units could be
completed by the end of this year or in spring 2012, Koelling
said. Bard heads a group of companies that seek to cover all
stages of offshore wind development, including Bard Emden Energy
GmbH, which makes rotor blades and components for turbines and
assembles the machines themselves.  The group also comprises a project development and
 investment company  for offshore wind farms as well as units for
installation and turbine maintenance.  Bard said Aug. 29 that it sold its shares in one of its
wind farms, the 600-megawatt Bard-Nederland project planned in
the Dutch portion of the  North Sea , to Typhoon Offshore BV, a
unit of the Amsterdam clean-energy investment company Typhoon
Capital BV, and Dutch energy provider  HVC Groep . Bard will still
supply turbines to the project.  Dutch Interest  “The main interest for the wind farm was Dutch so it was
natural to sell it to our Dutch cooperation partners,” said
Daniel Brickwell, sales director for Bard in the Netherlands.  The divestment and planned sale of Bard “ran in
parallel,” he said today by phone. “Part of the transition
process was to set up a new business plan and in this it was
decided that we would only be active as a turbine supplier in
the Netherlands, not turn-key.”  Typhoon Offshore now owns 85 percent and HVC the rest of
the facility northeast of Schiermonnikoog island, said Michael
van der Heijden, managing director of  Typhoon Offshore . He
declined to give financial information except that the sale was
at market prices.  “It was always the plan that at financial close the entire
wind farm would be placed with third-party equity investors,”
he said. The project could cost as much as 2.5 billion euros
($3.6 billion). Typhoon is seeking about 50 percent in loans
from a group of banks and is in “advanced” discussions, the
executive said.  Building should start mid-2012 with first power by the end
of 2013, he said. The project was awarded about 4.4 billion
euros, the bulk of a Dutch government subsidy known as the
“SDE” for offshore wind, in 2010.  “That the project is now in Dutch hands can play a role
with respect to the allocation of the SDE rest budget subsidy,”
Dirk Berkhout, a board member of Typhoon Offshore, said in a
statement by Bard. Those funds could add 100 megawatts to the
park, he said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  