-- 
Unemployment Fell in August for 26th Month as German Hiring Resisted Slump

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-08-31T08:30:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/german-unemployment-falls-as-hiring-holds-up.html
German unemployment fell in August
for a 26th straight month as hiring in Europe’s biggest economy
held up in the face of a global market rout and the euro-area’s
debt crisis.  The number of people out of work fell a seasonally adjusted
8,000 to 2.95 million, the Nuremberg-based Federal Labor Agency
said today. Economists forecast a drop of 10,000, according to
the median of 31 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey. The
jobless rate held at 7 percent, the lowest since records for a
reunified  Germany  began in 1991.  The decline in joblessness defies a plunge in Germany’s
benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  of about 20 percent this month on fears that
another global slump will sap demand for the country’s exports,
the main driver of economic expansion. The economy barely grew
in the second quarter after expanding 1.3 percent in the first,
the Federal Statistics Office said on Aug. 16.  “The German labor market remains strong but it would be
naïve to think that it could be totally immune to the debt
crisis,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in
Brussels, said in a note to investors.  The DAX rose 1.4 percent to 5,725.43 at 10 a.m. in Berlin.
The euro reversed a 0.2 percent decline against the dollar to
trade little changed at $1.4459.  BMW, Porsche  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  aims to hire 800 people at its
factory in Leipzig, as part of a 400 million-euro ($577 million)
expansion for the production of the i3 electric city car and the
i8 hybrid super car. Porsche AG is recruiting more than 1,000
workers for its nearby plant, where it plans to add the new
Cajun compact sport-utility vehicle.  The labor agency’s  BA-X  indicator, a measure for labor
demand in Germany, jumped five points in August to a record 170,
the agency said yesterday. Demand continued to rise from an
already high level, “unfazed by the turbulences in stock
markets and mooted business expectations,” the agency said.  That contrasts with a bleaker business outlook in  Europe ,
Germany’s main export region, where a composite index for August
based on a survey of euro-area purchasing managers in services
and manufacturing held steady at the lowest in almost two years.  German investor confidence plunged the most in five years
this month, the ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said Aug. 23. It cited fears of a U.S. recession and
Europe’s debt crisis. Business confidence dropped to the lowest
in more than a year, the Ifo institute said the next day.  Shedding Jobs  Some German companies are shedding jobs, among them firms
hit by the financial crisis. HSH Nordbank AG, a regional lender
that was bailed out, said Aug. 26 that it aims to eliminate 900
jobs by 2014, almost one third of its current employees.  The euro area’s economic prospects are worsening as
governments cut spending in a bid to narrow budget deficits and
tackle the debt crisis. European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled Aug. 29 that the EU may
reduce its 2011 growth forecast from 1.6 percent on concerns
that financial turbulence could spill into the broader economy.  “There’s still momentum in the economy even after growth
faltered, and hiring is benefiting,”  Aline Schuiling , a senior
economist at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam, said in an interview
before the data was released.  Brzeski said he expects “a bottoming-out” of the
 unemployment rate  toward the end of the year.  According to comparable data from the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development, Germany’s jobless rate was
6.1 percent in June. That compared with 9.2 percent in the U.S.,
9.7 percent in  France  and a euro-region average of 9.9 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at  at
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Vits in Nuremberg via 
 cvits@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  