-- 
Ghana Central Bank May Cut Interest Rate to Record Low as Inflation Eases

-- B y   M o s e s   M o z a r t   D z a w u
-- 
2011-09-01T07:33:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/ghana-bank-may-cut-benchmark-rate-to-record-low-as-prices-ease.html
Ghana’s central bank will probably
cut its benchmark  interest rate  for a third meeting to a record
low today after annual inflation slowed to the lowest level in
more than 19 years.  The  Bank of Ghana , based in the capital, Accra, may reduce
the lending rate by half a percentage point to 12 percent,
according to the median estimate of seven economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. That would be the lowest level since the key rate was
introduced in 2002. The decision will be announced at 11 a.m.
local time.  “The central bank will opt to cut rates by 50 basis
points, given the weak external environment, July’s benign
inflation print, and lingering concerns over domestic credit
growth,” Lisa Lewin, London-based head of sub-Saharan Africa
analysis at Business Monitor International, said in an e-mailed
note Aug. 24. “We expect inflation to be anchored by the
harvest season over the coming months.”  The inflation rate in  Ghana , the world’s second-biggest
cocoa producer, dropped for a fifth month in July to 8.4
percent, the lowest since June 1992, as the effect of an
increase in gasoline prices in January eased and a stable
currency, the cedi, helped curb import costs, according to the
country’s statistics agency.  “Inflation expectations are well anchored,” the central
bank, led by Governor Kwesi Amissah-Arthur, said on July 6.
“Businesses, consumers and financial institutions all had
favorable expectations that inflation would slow down over the
next six months.”  ‘More Confidence’  Ghana’s economy expanded 23 percent in the first quarter
from the year-ago period, following the start of oil production
at the Jubilee field, West Africa’s biggest discovery of crude
from an offshore field in a decade, according to the statistics
office. The cedi was little changed at 1.5285 per dollar at 7
a.m. in Accra.  The quicker-than-expected easing of prices in West Africa’s
second-biggest economy is easing pressure on policy makers and
may lead to a bigger drop in the benchmark rate, some analysts
said.  “Since the last monetary policy committee meeting,
inflation has continued to decline and is now below the bank’s 9
percent projection for three consecutive months,”  Leon Myburgh ,
a sub-Saharan Africa strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
Johannesburg, said in an e-mailed note to clients Aug. 25.
“These declines could give committee members more confidence to
cut the policy rate by a larger margin, in our view, and decide
for a 100 basis points cut.”  The central bank cut the policy rate four times between
November 2009 and July 2010. It was kept on hold at 13.5 percent
for three consecutive meetings before the bank reduced it by
half a percentage point at the last two meetings.  Amissah-Arthur on July 6 said he’s concerned that domestic
banks aren’t responding quickly enough to the cuts in the key
interest rate. A joint committee was created to study the issue
and make recommendations.  “The  sluggish response  of banks’ lending rates to policy
rate adjustments remains a source of concern,” Amissah-Arthur
said. The average lending rate of commercial banks fell by 10
basis points to 27.5 percent between January and May, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moses Mozart Dzawu in Accra at 
 mdzawu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  