-- 
GM Looking to Reboot Chevrolet Advertising Campaign After a Slow Start

-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 
2011-08-31T17:31:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/gm-looking-to-reboot-chevrolet-advertising-campaign-after-a-slow-start.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , a year after
Chief Marketing Officer  Joel Ewanick  joined the company and
overhauled its marketing, is again retooling some of the
creative work for Cadillac and Chevrolet.  GM is looking to reinvigorate its “Chevy Runs Deep” ad
campaign because some of the creative work has not resonated
strongly with consumers and some ads don’t explain what the
slogan means, Ewanick said in an interview this month. Cadillac
is also revamping ads to boost sales.  Ewanick’s newest changes to Chevy and Cadillac advertising
show GM, the largest U.S. automaker, is still trying to find the
right formula to rebuild its brands. Since taking over in
September 2010, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson has made
marketing a priority by promoting Ewanick and taking a personal
interest in some of GM’s advertising, especially for  Chevrolet .  “‘Chevy Runs Deep’ has maintained the brand but it hasn’t
really moved them in any direction,”  Alexander Edwards ,
president of the automotive division of  Strategic Vision , a San
Diego-based market research firm, said in a telephone interview.
“The campaign has not boosted showroom traffic.”  GM shed its Hummer, Pontiac and Saturn brands after
emerging from bankruptcy in 2009. GM also sold Saab so the
company can concentrate resources on Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet
and GMC. Ewanick was hired by former GM CEO  Ed Whitacre  as vice
president of U.S. marketing in May 2010 and promoted to global
chief marketing officer by Akerson in December.  Marketing Changes  Cadillac replaced agency Bartle Bogle Hegarty with
Minneapolis-based Fallon Worldwide in July of last year after
Ewanick joined GM. He also hired San Francisco-based Goodby,
Silverstein & Partners to take over the Chevy account.  The “Chevy Runs Deep” campaign is intended to emphasize
the brand’s U.S. heritage and make an emotional connection with
consumers, Ewanick said. Chevy will air the ads that have worked
the best for the fall U.S. television season, he said.  “Where we fall down is, we have not done a good job of
bringing that idea to life,” Ewanick said. “We haven’t really
elaborated what we mean by that.”  The ad campaign, which debuted in October during the  World
Series , has done little to boost shopping for Chevrolet,
according to data from Edmunds.com, an auto-shopping website
based in  Santa Monica ,  California .  U.S. vehicle sales of Detroit-based GM rose 16 percent
through July, according to Autodata Corp. of  Woodcliff Lake ,  New
Jersey . GM’s market share increased to 20 percent, from 19.2
percent a year ago.  Returning Soldier  In October, before the campaign began, 11.6 percent of
shoppers on Edmunds had considered Chevrolet vehicles.
Consideration rose throughout the fourth quarter to as high as
12.6 percent in January. That was likely due to the introduction
of the new Chevy Cruze compact, Jessica Caldwell, an Edmunds
analyst, said in an e-mail. Chevrolet consideration fell to 11.8
percent in July, Edmunds said.  Ewanick said that one of the best ads of the campaign came
out Memorial Day weekend. In an ad called “Salute”, a soldier
comes home from duty in a Chevy sport-utility vehicle to his two
sons, who are waiting on the front porch.  “Bringing heroes home for generations,” the ad’s narrator
says. “Just another reason Chevy runs deep.”  SpikeDDB, GM’s black ad agency, created another spot called
“Table of Brotherhood.” It shows a table stretching through
neighborhoods around the U.S. with people from different races
and ethnic backgrounds all sitting at it. Audio from  Martin
Luther King Jr .’s 1963 “I Have a Dream” speech is included.  Ewanick said Akerson told him the ad was powerful and
should be used more extensively. Ewanick plans to air the spot
more often and may also use it outside the U.S.  Product Attributes  Chevy will also use the Volt as a centerpiece to
advertising this year, Ewanick said. While the car sells in
limited numbers, the plug-in hybrid draws interest that brings
attention to GM’s other models, he said.  Cadillac is also moving to focus on product attributes,
said Don Butler, vice president for Cadillac marketing.  GM’s luxury brand has emphasized image advertising that
portrays the brand as “red-blooded, American luxury.” In an ad
called “Arrows,” actor Laurence Fishburne says that the
Cadillac CTS-V coupe’s styling was inspired by an archer drawing
its bow. The car then outruns hundreds of arrows.  Butler said those ads haven’t been as effective as product-
focused spots. Cadillac ran ads starting during National
Football League preseason games on Aug. 27 saying Ferrari uses a
Cadillac suspension technology called Magnetic Ride Control in
its cars.  “The conceptual stuff didn’t resonate as well,” Butler
said in an interview at a media event on Aug. 29. “We went from
arrows and raindrops and have moved to talking about specific
hardware.”  “Part of it is learning as we go and finding out what
works and what doesn’t work,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Southfield, Michigan at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  