-- 
U.S., Goldman Sachs Seek Details on BofA Mortgage-Bond Deal

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-08-31T15:11:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/goldman-sachs-objects-to-8-5-billion-bank-of-america-mortgage-bond-accord.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , federal
regulators and investors are seeking more information about Bank
of America Corp.’s effort to resolve mortgage liabilities with
an $8.5 billion settlement.  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., the Federal Housing
Finance Agency, Goldman Sachs and pension funds are among those
who have objected to the agreement, saying they don’t have
sufficient information to evaluate the deal.  Goldman Sachs can’t determine whether “all investors who
are similarly situated will be treated equally” under the
settlement, the company said in a court filing late yesterday in
federal court in Manhattan. A group of homeowners separately
sued Bank of America in federal court, seeking to block the
accord, claiming terms related to the servicing of mortgage
loans will accelerate home foreclosures.  The objections create more obstacles for  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based Bank of America as it seeks court approval for
the settlement to resolve claims from investors in Countrywide
Financial Corp. mortgage bonds. It acquired Countrywide in 2008.  The deal was negotiated with a group of institutional
investors, including BlackRock Inc. and Pacific Investment
Management Co., and would apply to investors outside that group.  The Trustee  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the trustee for the
mortgage-securitization trusts covered by the agreement, asked a
 New York  state judge to approve the settlement. A hearing on the
matter was initially scheduled for November. New York Attorney
General  Eric Schneiderman  asked the judge to reject the accord
and said in court papers that he has potential claims against
Bank of America. An investor group is seeking to move the case
to federal court.  “We believe that the trustee acted reasonably in entering
into the settlement, and that there are compelling reasons why
the agreement should receive judicial approval.” Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, said in an e-mail. He
declined to comment on the homeowner lawsuit. BNY Mellon
spokesman Kevin Heine declined to comment on the objections.  The agreement, which must be approved by a judge, is
important for Bank of America to put its mortgage liabilities
behind it,  Paul Miller , an analyst at FBR Capital Markets, said
in an interview.  “I think there’s a possibility it gets thrown out,” he
said. “But I don’t know to handicap that.”  Filed Objections  Those filing objections include  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , the  Federal Home Loan Banks  of  Boston ,  Chicago  and
 San Francisco , the Maine State Retirement System, and the
National Credit Union Administration, a federal agency that is
the liquidating agent for five corporate credit unions.  “Investors are unable to evaluate the fairness of the
allocation of the settlement proceeds,” the Maine retirement
system said.  The FDIC, the receiver for failed banks, said it owns
securities covered by the settlement. Andrew Gray, an FDIC
spokesman, said in an e-mail that the filing is a notice to
preserve its right to make claims as a part of the settlement
and seeks additional information.  “It is not an evaluation or opinion on the settlement
itself,” he said.  The FHFA, which regulates mortgage finance companies  Fannie
Mae  and Freddie Mac, said in a statement that it was also
seeking more information and “is aware of no basis upon which
it would raise a substantive objection to the proposed
settlement at this time.”  Federal Judge  Yesterday,  Nevada  asked a federal judge in Reno to
terminate an earlier settlement with Bank of America which
involved home-loan modifications tied to its Countrywide unit,
saying the company hasn’t complied with terms of the accord.  Bank of America increased consumer interest rates and
monthly payments in violation of a consent decree and required
homeowners to provide extensive documentation to qualify for
modifications even though the settlement calls for a
“streamlined” approach, the state said yesterday in a
statement.  The state is seeking to file an amended complaint against
the bank with additional claims.  “After two and a half years of lost implementation -- of
borrowers denied modifications, discouraged by repeated and
futile efforts to obtain help, or already subject to foreclosure
-- the state no longer can get the benefit of its original
settlement with defendants,” Nevada Attorney General Catherine Cortez Masto said yesterday.  The case is Bank of New York Mellon v. Walnut Place LLC,
11-cv-5988, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The homeowner lawsuit is Iesu v. Bank of New York
Mellon, 11-6078, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan). The Nevada case is State of Nevada v.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , 11-cv-00135, U.S. District Court, District of
Nevada (Reno).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York State  Supreme Court  in Manhattan
at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  