-- 
Google+ Visitors’ Time Spent on Service Stalls, Hitwise Says

-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 
2011-08-31T21:55:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/google-visitors-time-spent-on-social-site-has-stagnated-hitwise-reports.html
The amount of time U.S. users spend
on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s new social network has grown more slowly in
recent weeks, according to Experian Hitwise, indicating that the
service may struggle to make headway against Facebook Inc.  Users on average spent 5 minutes and 47 seconds on Google+
during the week ended Aug. 27, up about 4 percent from the
previous week, according to New York-based  Experian Hitwise ,
which tracks Internet statistics. Time spent on the site peaked
in the week of July 16, at 5 minutes, 50 seconds, Hitwise said.  Google+ is the company’s latest effort to help it compete
against  Palo Alto ,  California-based Facebook , the world’s most
popular social site. While the new service offers some good
features for sharing content with friends, Facebook is an
entrenched rival with more than 750 million users, said Charlene Li, an analyst with Altimeter Group in  San Mateo ,  California .  “The people that you’d want to add are in many cases very
happy on Facebook and they don’t want to have another social
network,” Li said.  U.S. visits to Google+ fell 5.5 percent to 1.16 million
during the week ended Aug. 27, after rising 2.6 percent the
previous week, according to Experian Hitwise. The company had
gained 283 percent the week ended July 16. Still, Google hasn’t
opened up the service to everyone yet, so it’s too early to
judge user numbers, said Michael Gartenberg, an analyst with
Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc.  Limited Access  “Google says this is a limited field trial,” he said.
“Early reactions from people who have used the service seem
very, very positive. But we’re talking about a service that
hasn’t been widely opened up, that most consumers can’t get
access to.”  Google+, designed to help users better share information,
debuted in a trial version on June 28 by invitation only. The
service relies on a tool called Circles, which lets members
communicate with limited sets of friends, rather than blasting
everyone in their network.  The company has been working since then to add more
features. Earlier this month, Google+ rolled out a games service
with developers such as Zynga Inc. and Rovio Entertainment Oy,
creator of the hit “Angry Birds.”  Google said today that it hasn’t released any new Google+
statistics for this month. More than 10 million people have
joined the service since its debut in June, the  Mountain View ,
California-based company said.  Experian Hitwise’s research methods, which rely on visits
to websites, don’t include mobile users or times when people
access the service from the black notification bar running
across the top of Google.com.  Google rose 26 cents to $540.96 at 4 p.m. New York time on
the Nasdaq Stock Market. The shares have fallen 8.9 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  