-- 
Greek Debt Swap Is Attracting More Banks Than Indicated to Date, IIF Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-08-31T11:13:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/greek-debt-swap-is-attracting-more-banks-than-indicated-to-date-iif-says.html
The  Institute of International
Finance  expects rising bank participation in the debt swap
that’s part of a new rescue plan for Greece, spokesman Frank
Vogl said.  IIF says 40 financial institutions have so far explicitly
lent their support to the debt exchange, a key element of the
159 billion-euro ($230 billion) rescue program that European
leaders crafted in July. Those companies own about 70 billion
euros in Greek government debt, or about 50 percent of the bonds
eligible for the debt exchange.  Other banks have signed up behind the scenes, Vogl said in
an e-mailed response to questions. That brings current,
preliminary participation rates to between 60 percent and 70
percent, with more financial firms expected to sign on as formal
terms become available.  “Many institutions have indicated through their national
authorities that they would participate in the exchange but they
have not authorized the IIF to post their names so far,” Vogl
said. “We expect the participation level to rise as the process
moves ahead in the weeks to come.”  For the rescue package to succeed, private investors will
need to sign up in big enough numbers for the Greek government
to go through with the debt swap. The program aims to include 90
percent, or about 135 billion euros, of the eligible outstanding
bonds.  Greece  outlined the plan last week in a document sent to
the finance ministries of 57 countries where banks and insurers
hold Greek debt. The document indicated the country might scrap
the program if too few institutions sign up.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net ; 