-- 
Green Vote Cools Toward Obama Risking a Replay of Gore-Nader

-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-08-31T04:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/green-vote-cools-to-obama-over-pipeline-concerns.html
Betsy Taylor knocked on doors to woo
voters to Barack Obama’s 2008 presidential campaign and donated
$1,000. This week, she spent a day seated outside the White
House gates protesting his environmental policies.  Taylor, 56, is among almost 600 demonstrators who have been
arrested since Aug. 20 in a bid to get Obama to block
 TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed $7 billion oil pipeline from  Canada 
to the Gulf Coast, according to protest organizers.  “We gave so much to his campaign,” Taylor said, tearing
up as she walked to the protest site on Aug. 29. In next year’s
re-election campaign, she said, “I’m going to vote for him, but
will I work for him? Will I give him money? I don’t know.”  Taylor and fellow protesters said they fear being let down
again by a president they counted on for change, after the State
Department found on Aug. 26 that the pipeline poses little
environmental risk. Environmental groups say Obama hasn’t fought
hard enough to cap  greenhouse gases  that contribute to climate
change and fault him for resuming offshore oil drilling in the
 Gulf of Mexico  after last year’s  BP Plc spill.  “We will see an enthusiasm deficit” toward Obama in the
campaign, Michael Brune, executive director of the 1.4 million-
member Sierra Club, said in an interview with Bloomberg Government.
“We won’t see our members volunteering 20 or 25 or 30 hours a week.
We won’t see bus-loads of people from  California  going to canvass
in Reno,  Nevada , or Sierra Club members from  Chicago  going to
 Ohio . We won’t see the same passion and intensity.”  Gore, Nader  Democratic Vice President  Al Gore  paid a price in his 2000
presidential campaign for the splintering of environmentalists’
votes. Leaders of some groups, including in  Florida , endorsed
the independent candidacy of Ralph Nader instead.  Gore, who later won the Nobel Peace Prize for his advocacy
of limits on greenhouse-gas emissions, lost Florida by 537 votes 
in the official tally, making Republican George W. Bush president.
Nader garnered 97,488 votes in the state.  Nader predicted in April that Obama will win re-election,
in part because “the liberal base has nowhere to go to send a
message” this time. Still, apathy among voters sympathetic to
environmentalist goals may prove costly to Obama, according to
Doug Schoen, who was a strategist for President  Bill Clinton .  “Obama won the election because the left, young people who
are disproportionately environmentalists, came out in huge
numbers,” Schoen said in an interview yesterday. “If he
doesn’t have the kind of support he had from the left, from
young people, from environmentalists, he is not going to be re-
elected. It’s as simple as that.”  NASA’s Hansen, Actor Hannah  The sit-down protests outside the White House have drawn
arrests of environmental figures from James Hansen, the head of
NASA’s Goddard Institute for Space Studies, to actor Daryl Hannah, who starred in the 1984 mermaid movie “Splash.”  The critics say TransCanada’s pipeline, which would carry
crude extracted from Alberta’s oil sands to  Gulf Coast 
refineries, would worsen global warming because the heavy
Canadian crude produces more greenhouse gases than conventional
oil. The State Department has said Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton , who has jurisdiction over the pipeline because it would
cross an international border, will make a final decision by the
end of the year.  Under Obama, “there have been some huge disappointments,
and some huge successes,” said Navin Nayak, senior vice
president of the League of Conservation Voters, which spent $2
million supporting Democrats and $1 million opposing Republicans
in the 2008 elections. “Those who were passionate about an
Obama presidency want a reason to be passionate again.”  Fuel Standards  Among the successes cited by environmentalists are
standards announced in July for cars and trucks that will double
 fuel efficiency  to 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025.
Environmentalists also praise the 2009 stimulus bill for
providing $90 billion in loan guarantees for energy efficiency
and the development of renewable power sources such as batteries
for electric vehicles.  “President Obama has planted the seeds necessary to
transition the nation to a clean-energy economy,”  Ben LaBolt , a
spokesman for the Obama campaign, said in an e-mail. He said
that stands in contrast to Republicans who advocate “turning
back the clock on our progress.”  Environmental voters may vote for Obama less out of hope
than fear of his Republican opponents who are attacking the
administration’s environmental regulations, according to Erich Pica, president of Friends of the Earth in  Washington .  Perry, Bachmann  “If we’re unexcited about what he’s done, our members will
be unexcited, and that excitement gap does cost votes,” Pica
said in an interview. “Our members aren’t going to vote for
Rick Perry.”  Texas Governor Perry, who is seeking the Republican
presidential nomination, has said scientific findings that
humans are causing  climate change  are a hoax.  “There are a substantial number of scientists who have
manipulated data so that they will have dollars rolling into
their projects,” Perry said Aug. 17 in Bedford, New Hampshire.  Representative  Michele Bachmann  of  Minnesota , also a
Republican presidential contender, has pledged to eliminate the
Environmental Protection Agency, which she has called “the job-
killing organization of America.”  Republicans in the U.S. House pledged this week to hold a
series of votes aimed at blocking proposals by the Environmental
Protection Agency to curb pollution from power plants and
factories.  Climate Change  Obama faces voters more concerned with the lagging economy
than melting glaciers or rising oceans, according to opinion
surveys.  Support among Americans for tackling climate change fell to
46 percent in October from 61 percent in July 2006, according to
the Pew Research Center. Americans do support the issues Obama
has embraced, such as raising fuel efficiency standards and
spending more on mass transit, the poll found. The survey taken
Oct. 13 to Oct. 18 had a margin of error of plus-or-minus 2.5
percentage points.  Obama’s strategists may be thinking “who cares about the
environment when the economy is this dark,” Eric Schaeffer,
executive director of the  Environmental Integrity Project  in
Washington and a former EPA official, said in an interview.  Individual and group donations by environmentalists totaled
more than $5.3 million to all candidates in the 2008 campaign,
with 95 percent of that going to Democrats, according to
government data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics,
a nonpartisan group in Washington. Obama received $1.1 million.  With volunteers such as Taylor of Takoma Park, Maryland,
who works as a consultant to foundations funding environmental
causes, Obama also benefited from long hours of knocking on
doors in battleground states such as Virginia and  Pennsylvania .  “I give him credit for some of the great things he has
done, but I am feeling angry at the president,” Taylor said.
She said Obama should make the case to Americans about the need
to tackle global climate change. “We need him to do it, but
it’s unclear if he will step up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  