-- 
Gundlach’s Total Return Fund Lures $10 Billion From Investors in 16 Months

-- B y   S r e e   V i d y a   B h a k t a v a t s a l a m
-- 
2011-08-31T19:15:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/gundlach-s-total-return-fund-lures-10-billion-from-investors-in-16-months.html
DoubleLine Total Return Bond Fund,
started by  Jeffrey Gundlach  after he was dismissed from TCW
Group Inc., set a record for fastest-growing actively managed
mutual fund by attracting $10 billion in assets in 16 months as
it posted top returns.  The fund has pulled in more than $1 billion in investor
deposits in August, a record month, Ron Redell, president of Los
Angeles-based DoubleLine Capital LP’s mutual-fund unit, said
today in an interview. The fund, managed by Gundlach and Philip Barach, returned 12 percent in the past year, beating 99 percent
of rivals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t know of anybody who has started a new firm and
been able to raise this kind of money,”  Geoff Bobroff , an
independent fund consultant in  East Greenwich ,  Rhode Island ,
said today in an interview. “To go from zero to $10 billion is
pretty remarkable.”  Gundlach, who was named  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) ’s fixed-income
manager of the year in 2006, started DoubleLine in December 2009
after he was fired as chief investment officer of TCW over a
dispute that led to a legal battle. Gundlach co-managed the  TCW
Total Return Bond Fund (TGLMX)  with Barach, who subsequently joined
DoubleLine as president. The TCW fund, whose assets have
declined to about $5.3 billion from almost $12 billion before
Gundlach left, advanced 6 percent in the year through yesterday.  Pimco, JP Morgan  The rapid rise of Gundlach’s debut fund surpassed that of
fast-growing funds opened by seasoned rivals such as Pacific
Investment Management Co. The $18 billion  Pimco Unconstrained
Bond Fund (PUBAX) , started by the Newport Beach, California-based Pimco
in June 2008, took two years to get to the $10 billion mark,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The $14 billion
JPMorgan Strategic Income Opportunities Fund reached the $10
billion mark in slightly less than two years after its October
2008 inception, Bloomberg data show.  “Investors see our funds as the lighthouse in the storm
amid the recent market volatility,” Redell said.  Investors poured a net $1.4 billion into the four
DoubleLine mutual funds in August, Redell said. Including  hedge
funds  and separately managed accounts, DoubleLine manages $15
billion in assets.  TCW, based in  Los Angeles , sued Gundlach, 51, in January
2010, after more than half of its fixed-income professionals
joined his firm. TCW seeks $375 million in damages, claiming
Gundlach stole  trade secrets , including client portfolio data,
to start DoubleLine.  Legal Dispute  Gundlach, who had worked at TCW for 25 years, countersued,
saying TCW fired him to avoid having to pay management and
performance fees for the distressed-asset funds his group
managed. Gundlach seeks about $500 million.  TCW today rested its case in the trial, while DoubleLine
called its first witness.  TCW hired an investment team from Metropolitan West Asset
Management to replace Gundlach in 2009. The TCW Total Return
fund advanced 8.9 percent in the past five years, beating 99
percent of peers, Bloomberg data show. The fund lagged behind 75
percent of rivals this year through yesterday.  The firm managed $119.5 billion in assets, including about
$31 billion in its mutual funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sree Vidya Bhaktavatsalam in Boston at 
 sbhaktavatsa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  