-- 
Iceland ‘Lack of Clarity’ Reduces Investor Confidence, IMF Says

-- B y   O m a r   R .   V a l d i m a r s s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T14:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/iceland-lack-of-clarity-reduces-investor-confidence-imf-says.html
Iceland’s “lack of clarity” in how
it aims to attract investors to the north Atlantic island is
hurting economic growth, the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Uncertainty about the sources of growth continues to
weigh on prospects,” the Washington-based IMF said in a staff
report published today dated Aug. 16. “Lack of clarity on the
government’s strategy for investment has also increased
uncertainty and damped business confidence.”  Gross domestic product will grow 2.5 percent this year, the
IMF said. That compares with a  central bank  estimate this month
of 2.8 percent growth in 2011. The island completed a 33-month
IMF program this month after the lender established that all
economic objectives had been met and the country was on the road
to recovery, according to an Aug. 26 final review statement.  “There are still challenges and the end of the fund-
supported program doesn’t mean that the work is over,” Julie
Kozack, head of IMF’s mission to  Iceland , said on a conference
call. “In particular, Iceland still faces a challenge of growth
and unemployment.”  Iceland requested the IMF’s assistance following the 2008
collapse of its banks that triggered an 80 percent slump in the
krona against the euro offshore that year. The country received
a $4.6 billion IMF-led bailout to stay afloat and will begin
repayments in 2012 and conclude them in 2016. Iceland, which
avoided default by forcing bondholders to bear the cost of the
banking failure, is now relying on its marine exports and
renewable energy resources to drive growth.  Public Discussion  While Iceland is “endowed with abundant natural
resources,” their use “remains an issue of intense public
discussion,” the IMF said. There has also been “considerable
interest in new investments in power-intensive sectors, but
technical and financial obstacles remain a challenge.”  Earlier this year, Magma Energy Corp., a Vancouver-based
geothermal power developer, agreed to sell a quarter of its 98.5
percent stake in Iceland’s HS Orka hf to a group of pension
funds in the country. The sale came less than a year after Magma
bought a majority stake in a deal that spurred a national debate
about foreign ownership and a government investigation. Singer
Bjork Gudmundsdottir has also led a campaign to put foreign
energy takeovers to referenda if enough people are opposed.  Magma is now called Alterra Power Corp. after a merger.  Separately, the IMF said the country’s inflation outlook
has “deteriorated and measures of inflation expectations have
picked up. Key risks arise from higher than projected pass-
through of wages into prices, potential krona depreciation, and
commodity price shocks.”  Iceland’s central banks raised its main  interest rate  on
Aug. 17 by a quarter point to 4.5 percent, the first increase
since its banks collapsed, to slow inflation. Iceland’s
inflation rate was 5 percent in August, holding above the
central bank’s 2.5 percent target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Omar R. Valdimarsson in Reykjavik 
 valdimarsson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  