-- 
Tillerson’s Arctic Coup Swaps Exxon U.S. Stakes for Russian Oil

-- B y   E d w a r d   K l u m p   a n d   S t e p h e n   B i e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-31T14:17:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/tillerson-s-arctic-coup-swaps-exxon-u-s-stakes-for-russian-oil.html
Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s coup in securing
access to OAO Rosneft’s Arctic oil frontier is the culmination
of almost 15 years of effort by Chief Executive Officer  Rex Tillerson  to expand its position in Russia.  Exxon’s partnership with Rosneft will allow the company to
tap into a region potentially containing tens of billions of
barrels of oil. Exxon beat rivals, including BP Plc,  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , to gain its piece of one of the
globe’s last undeveloped oil provinces. In return, Exxon is
providing Rosneft with the capital and expertise it needs to
help Russia hold on as the world’s biggest oil producer.  Tillerson, who oversaw Russia’s first offshore project in
Arctic conditions in the 1990s, is reversing course in a country
that he criticized for its lack of transparency as recently as
three years ago. The agreement with Rosneft is his biggest deal
since the $35 billion acquisition of U.S. shale gas producer XTO
Energy Inc. in 2010.  “Between Russia and the XTO deal, Tillerson has put
together a big resource base for the end of the decade,” said
 Jason Gammel , an oil industry analyst at Macquarie Capital Ltd.
in  London . “Whoever succeeds him will be very happy with the
job he’s done.”  Exxon and Rosneft plan to spend an initial $3.2 billion
exploring Russia’s Arctic offshore and the Black Sea. Exxon has
agreed to give Rosneft stakes in some of its deep-water  Gulf of
Mexico  projects and fields in  Texas , making it the first major
Russian oil producer to develop U.S. deposits.  ‘Large Scale’  “This large-scale partnership represents a significant
strategic step by both companies,” said Tillerson, who attended
the signing of the agreement in Sochi, Russia, with Rosneft CEO
Eduard Khudainatov, presided over by Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin . “This agreement takes our relationship to a new level.”  Exxon has had operations in  Russia  dating back to the late
1980s. Tillerson took responsibility for the company’s holdings
in Russia and the  Caspian Sea  in the 1990s. In 1998, he was
named vice president of Exxon Ventures (CIS) Inc. and president
of Exxon Neftegas Ltd., a role that included oversight of
Exxon’s Sakhalin I project in Russia’s far east. At its height,
the project produced about 250,000 barrels of crude a day.  “Sakhalin was a big achievement,” Macquarie’s Gammel said
in an interview. Rosneft “is their next big step into Russia.
Insofar as Exxon has a position in Russia it’s due to
Tillerson’s efforts.”  Sakhalin Experience  After his Sakhalin experience, Tillerson never lost his
appetite for Russian ventures even as then-President Putin’s
government rebuffed foreign companies to take tighter control of
its oil and natural-gas resources eight years ago.  “We remain interested, we remain engaged,” Tillerson said
a few months after stepping into the CEO job at Exxon in 2006.
“When the time is right, we’ll find something to do there.”  A lack of faith in Russia’s investment climate may have
held him back.  Tillerson criticized Russia’s legal system, telling the St.
Petersburg International Forum in 2008, that there was “no
confidence in the rule of law in Russia.” That echoed comments
made by Lee Raymond, Tillerson’s predecessor as CEO, who said in
a 2004 interview that an earlier comment he’d made that Russia
was a safe place to invest, may have been “premature.”  In 2003, Exxon was negotiating what might have been the
company’s most significant investment in Russia to that point, a
stake in OAO Yukos Oil Co., led by Russian billionaire  Mikhail Khodorkovsky . Pressure on Exxon to gain access to Russia’s
immense reserves had increased after London-based  BP Plc (BP/)  formed
its TNK-BP joint venture with OAO Tyumen Oil Co.  Yukos Talks  The Yukos talks, confirmed by Putin, fell apart and
Khodorkovsky was jailed in 2003. Rosneft bought Yukos’s main
producing asset in 2004, after the state claimed it and
auctioned it for unpaid taxes. Yukos was forced into bankruptcy
in August 2006 as a barrage of tax claims continued. Rosneft
acquired the bulk of the remaining Yukos assets at liquidation
auctions in 2007.  At the time, it appeared as if no American-Russian oil and
gas collaboration was going to be able to succeed, said Amy
Myers Jaffe, an energy analyst at  Rice University  in Houston.  The Russians “weren’t interested in negotiating with
anyone, and it got to the point where no one was interested in
investing in their country,” Jaffe said.  That thinking began to change as Russia realized it needed
the expertise and technology of international  oil companies  to
maintain its position as the world’s biggest oil producer.  Complex Deposits  Unless it was able to develop resources in increasingly
complex deposits in harsh environments, production would
decline,  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at Troika Dialog Group
Ltd. said.  “Russia needs to ensure that it remains the world’s
largest energy producer for both domestic and external political
reasons,” Weafer said.  In January, BP was the first to secure a deal with Rosneft
to develop its Arctic reserves in the Kara Sea. Less than two
weeks later, Rosneft announced a $1 billion accord with Exxon to
explore for oil in the  Black Sea .  BP’s $7.8 billion share swap agreement fell apart after the
U.K. explorer’s billionaire partners in TNK-BP blocked the deal
this year. Shell and Chevron also had expressed interest in
partnering with Rosneft in the Arctic before Exxon won the
alliance yesterday.  Kara Sea  The three blocks in the Kara Sea fields in the accord are
about the size of the U.K. North Sea and may hold as much as 100
billion barrels of oil equivalent, according to BP.  The partnership also allows Rosneft a chance to participate
in Exxon’s deep-water projects in the Gulf of Mexico and its
unconventional fields in Texas, where oil and gas are extracted
by cracking open rocks with sand, water and chemicals. The two
companies said they’ll study the potential for similar so-called
tight  oil fields  in western Siberia.  Shell,  Europe ’s largest oil company, was described by Putin
in May as a potential “comfortable partner” to replace BP in
the Kara Sea. Shell, which works with state-controlled OAO
Gazprom in Siberia and Sakhalin Island, agreed to further expand
cooperation with the gas producer in June.  Chevron pulled out as Rosneft’s partner in the Val
Shatskogo exploration project in Russia’s Black Sea this year.
Chevron is “looking to partner with Rosneft on other
opportunities in the Arctic or elsewhere in Russia,”  Kurt Glaubitz , a company spokesman, said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edward Klump in Houston at 
 eklump@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Bierman in Moscow at 
 sbierman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  