-- 
South Africa Mine Nationalization a ‘Concern’ for Investors, Minister Says

-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 
2011-08-31T04:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/mine-nationalization-in-south-africa-is-concern-minister-s-adviser-says.html
Investors in  South Africa ’s mining
industry should be concerned about potential nationalization of
some areas, a special adviser to the Minister of Resources Susan Shabangu said.  “As long as the debate continues and as long as it is not
clear what the ultimate outcome of this process is going to be,
there will always be some concern,” Sandile Noxgina told
reporters today at a conference in Perth,  Australia . “I believe
it is justified.”  The ruling  African National Congress ’s Youth League says
that nationalizing mines and banks will help redistribute wealth
in a country where inequality hasn’t changed much since the end
of white-minority rule 17 years ago. Shabangu has instead called
for an increased focus on so-called beneficiation, where metals
and minerals are processed or treated to raise their value
before being exported.  The ruling party’s policy is still to encourage private
investment, Noxgina said. He expects the matter will be “put to
bed” by the government by July next year, he said.  “By July it will be clear as to which way the discussion
will be going,” he said, declining to say whether he believed
the government will support nationalization of some industries.
“The kind of debate currently raging in South Africa on
nationalization is indeed discouraging people who like to invest
in the South African economy.”  South Africa is the world’s largest platinum and chrome
producer. Mining companies operating in the nation, such as
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and  Exxaro Resources Ltd. (EXX) , provide coal for
European and Indian power plants.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Jason Scott in Perth at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  