-- 
Inflation Bets Tumble as U.S. Economy Falters: Mexico Credit

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-08-31T21:56:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/inflation-bets-tumble-as-u-s-economy-falters-mexico-credit.html
Bond investors are reducing their
estimates for Mexican inflation to a three-month low, a sign the
central bank may have room to cut interest rates to safeguard
 Latin America ’s second-biggest economy.  The yield gap between inflation-linked debt due in 2013 and
similar-maturity fixed-rate bonds, a gauge of investor
expectations for price increases, sank 59 basis points in August
and touched 370 last week, the lowest since June, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called breakeven rate in
Brazil fell 5 basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, during the
same period while in  Colombia  it dropped 21.  Slowing global growth is curbing the prospects of inflation
in  developing countries  from  Russia  to Chile and fueling
speculation policy makers will begin to lower borrowing costs to
shore up their economies. The slackening expansion in the U.S.
is prompting traders to bet Banco de  Mexico , the only major
central bank in Latin America to keep interest rates unchanged
in the past year, will trim them from a record low 4.5 percent
as soon as December.  “The bank is going to focus on how inflation develops and
the impact of the slowdown in the U.S. on the Mexican economy,”
Alejandro Urbina, who oversees $800 million of assets at Silva
Capital Management in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.
“Sometime in the next few months the  Federal Reserve , just like
Banco de Mexico, will need to take some action. What we are
seeing in the U.S. is much worse than people think.”  Global Rates  Mexico’s central bank, known as Banxico, signaled last week
it may lower interest rates as inflation remained the lowest
among developing nations in the Group of 20. In  Brazil ,
inflation exceeded 7 percent this month for the first time since
2005.  Turkey  unexpectedly cut its benchmark  interest rate  to a
record low of 5.75 percent on Aug. 4 to buoy the economy.  Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in a speech Aug. 26 in
Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , that the central bank still has options
to spur growth in the U.S., the destination for 80 percent of
Mexico’s exports. Policy makers will meet for an additional day
at their next meeting in September to “allow a fuller
discussion” of the economy and the Fed’s possible response.  The U.S.,  Japan  and the U.K. have interest rates close to
zero. In  South America ,  Chile ,  Peru  and Colombia have halted
rate increases as global growth slackens.  Annual inflation in Mexico slowed to 3.55 percent last
month from 3.64 percent in July 2010. It reached a five-year low
of 3.04 percent in March.  Speculation the central bank will cut its key rate grew
after policy makers said in a statement following their Aug. 26
meeting that they would “consider the convenience of
adjusting” monetary policy if Mexico’s growth outlook worsened.  Growth Outlook  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts for December
delivery, known as TIIE, were unchanged at 4.69 percent today,
indicating that the central bank may lower borrowing costs that
month.  The central bank reduced on Aug. 10 its growth forecasts
for the next two years. The country’s gross domestic product
will expand as much as 4.8 percent this year, down from a
previous forecast of up to 5 percent, the bank said. The U.S.
will grow 2.35 percent in 2012, according to 56 analysts in a
Bloomberg survey.  “There’s been a shift of expectations with respect to
growth in the U.S. and therefore in Mexico,”  Benito Berber , a
strategist at Nomura Securities Inc. in New York, said in a
telephone interview. “Banxico has opened the door to cuts.”  Yields on the Mexican government’s benchmark peso bonds due
2024 tumbled 46 basis points in the past month, the most since
March 2009, to 6.33 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Yields on inflation-linked bonds due 2020 fell 27
basis points during the same period to 2.16 percent.  Extra Yield  The extra yield investors demand to hold Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was little changed at
200 basis points at 5:20 p.m. New York time, according to
JPMorgan’s EMBI Global index.  The peso rose 1.6 percent to 12.3328 per  U.S. dollar . The
currency is up 0.1 percent this year, making it the second-worst
performer of 16 major global currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the South African rand.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell 10 basis points to 142, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  A strengthening peso earlier this year had reduced the cost
of imports, helping keep inflation in check, said Nader Nazmi, a
Latin America economist at BNP Paribas in  New York .  ‘Inflationary Pressures’  “It’s going to eliminate some of the support that
inflation has had from the  exchange rate ,” Nazmi said in a
telephone interview from New York.  Economists reduced their 2011 inflation forecast in a
survey distributed Aug. 22 by Citigroup Inc.’s Banamex unit.
Consumer prices will rise 3.56 percent this year, less than a
previous estimate of 3.60 percent on Aug. 4, the survey showed.  “The deceleration we’re seeing could affect demand and
that would bring still lower inflationary pressures,” Javier Belaunzaran, who helps manage about 40 billion pesos at
Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “It increases a bit the probability” of a
rate cut, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  