-- 
Irish Life’s Bank Loan Losses Surge as Mortgage Arrears Rise

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-08-31T09:16:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/irish-life-s-bank-loan-losses-surge-as-mortgage-arrears-rise.html
Irish Life  & Permanent Plc said loan
losses at its banking unit more than doubled in the first half
as mortgage arrears increased and  house prices  plunged.  Irish Life’s cases of Irish mortgage customers at least 90
days behind in payments increased to 8.8 percent at the end of
June from 6.8 percent from six months earlier, the Dublin-based
company said in a  statement  today. The loan loss at the
company’s banking unit rose to 333 million euros ($481 million)
from 150 million in the year earlier period.  Irish Life last month became the fifth government-
guaranteed financial group to succumb to state control after
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  injected 2.7 billion euros into
it to shore up the unprofitable banking division, Permanent TSB.
Noonan is selling the life assurance and fund management
division to limit costs to the state of rescuing the group.  “We are progressing discussions with a number of
interested parties and are encouraged by the progress so far,”
said Kevin Murphy, chief executive officer, in the statement.  JC Flowers & Co. has teamed up with Apollo Global
Management LLC, both private equity firms, to make a joint bid
for the unit, said three people familiar with the discussions on
Aug. 19. London-based CVC Capital Partners Ltd., Great-West
Lifeco Inc.’s Canada Life Ireland as well as U.S. insurers Unum
Group and Delphi Financial Group Inc. are among the other
bidders, the people said. Final offers are due in October, they
said.  Operating profit in the life assurance unit fell to 64
million euros for the first six months from 118 million euros
for the same period last year. The company still expects the
division’s full-year performance to be “broadly in line” with
2010, it said.  The company posted a 414 million-euro pretax profit for the
six months, compared with a 34 million-euro loss for the year-
ago period, boosted by a 763 million-euro gain from buying back
subordinated debt at a discount.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  