-- 
Israel Unemployment Rate Declines to Lowest Level Since 1985

-- B y   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 
2011-08-31T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/israel-unemployment-rate-declines-to-lowest-level-since-1985.html
Israel ’s unemployment rate declined
to 5.5 percent in the second quarter, the lowest level since at
least 1985, as the economy expanded.  The jobless rate dropped from 6 percent in the previous
quarter, the Jerusalem-based Central Bureau of Statistics said
today on its website.  “The Israeli economy has been continuing to grow, and it
grew at a positive rate in the second quarter,”  Daniel Hewitt ,
senior emerging-market economist at  Barclays Capital  in  London ,
said in a telephone interview before the announcement.
“Unemployment tends to be a lagging indicator.”  The economy expanded an annualized 3.3 percent in the
second quarter, following growth of 4.7 percent in the previous
three months. Growth for the year will likely be similar to the
4.7 percent rate in 2010, Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said at a conference in Buenos Aires yesterday.  Fischer kept the benchmark interest rate unchanged at 3.25
percent for a third month on Aug. 29 after increasing it 10
times in the past two years. U.S. growth concerns, the sovereign
debt crisis in Europe and slowing domestic inflation have
spurred speculation that the central bank may soon reverse
course and loosen monetary policy.  Israel’s two-year interest-rate swaps, a gauge of investor
expectations for rates over the period, were at 2.94 percent at
12:13 p.m., the lowest since Aug. 16. The rate has declined from
3.88 percent at the end of July.  Inflation in July eased to an annual 3.4 percent, its
slowest pace this year.  Israel’s benchmark TA-25 stock index has declined about 15
percent since the beginning of the year, led by Discount
Investment Corp., a holding company with interests in
telecommunications, retailing and manufacturing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in  Jerusalem  at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  