-- 
Lizard Genome Probed for Clues on First Egg Births on Land, Scientists Say

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 
2011-08-31T17:24:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/lizard-genome-probed-for-clues-on-first-egg-births-on-land-scientists-say.html
The  green anole lizard , the first
reptile to have its genes sequenced, may provide scientists with
clues about how animals and humans came to reproduce on land, a
study said.  Reptiles, unlike their amphibian and fish cousins, don’t
lay eggs in water. By comparing the genome of the green anole
lizard, a five-inch sized tree and shrub dweller from the
southeastern U.S.,  with that of other animals, scientists can
learn about how reproduction made its way from sea to land,
according to a paper published in the journal  Nature .  Animals that don’t reproduce in water, including humans,
birds and reptiles, diverged from those that do about 280
million years ago, the authors wrote. One of the mysteries of
evolution, which assumes life’s emergence from the sea, is how
land reproducing mammals evolved away from laying eggs,
researchers said. The lizard genome may help explain, they said.  “Sometimes you need to be at a certain distance in order
to learn about how the human genome evolved,” said Jessica
Alföldi, co-first author of the paper and a genome biologist at
the  Broad Institute,  in a statement. “You have to look out
further than you were looking previously.”  The institute is a collaboration between the  Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology and  Harvard University , both in
Cambridge, Massachusetts.  With the newly-mapped reptile genome, researchers were able
to compare proteins found in the lizard eggs with those in
chicken eggs and track their evolution. Both bird and lizard egg
genes evolved much more rapidly than other genes, they found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 