-- 
J. Crew, Funds Said to Reach $16 Million Settlement Over Buyout Lawsuits

-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-09-01T18:58:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/j-crew-funds-said-to-settle-investors-buyout-lawsuits-for-16-million.html
J. Crew  Group Inc. and the two
private-equity firms buying the retailer agreed to pay $16
million to resolve investor lawsuits over the deal, reviving a
previous settlement that had collapsed, court papers show.  Executives of New York-based J. Crew and buyout firms  TPG
Capital LP  and  Leonard Green  & Partners LP, who acquired the
clothing-store chain for $3 billion, agreed to add an additional
$6 million to the original $10 million settlement to end
litigation over the buyout, lawyers said in a filing made public
today in Wilmington, Delaware.  J. Crew sued a group of shareholders in  Delaware Chancery
Court  in Wilmington in May in a bid to enforce the original $10
million settlement, which collapsed four months earlier. The new
accord will resolve the company’s suit as well as investors’
challenges to the acquisition, according to the filing.  TPG, based in  Fort Worth ,  Texas , and Los Angeles-based
Leonard Green agreed in November to buy J. Crew for $43.50 a
share. The company operates 250 retail stores under brands
including Madewell and 85 factory outlet locations, as well as a
catalog business. A majority of J. Crew’s shareholders voted to
approve the buyout in March.  Shareholders are likely to get as much as 25 cents a share
under the deal, three people familiar with the accord said
today. Those people sought anonymity because they weren’t
authorized to speak publicly about the settlement.  ‘Wrongdoing’ Denied  “Defendants deny any and all allegations of wrongdoing,
fault, liability or damage,” according to today’s filing.  Margot Fooshee, a J. Crew spokeswoman, and TPG spokesman
 Owen Blicksilver  declined to comment yesterday on the
settlement.  Cody Franklin , a spokesman for Leonard Green, didn’t
immediately return a call seeking comment yesterday.  Stuart Grant , a Wilmington, Delaware-based lawyer representing the
pension funds that challenged the buyout, also didn’t
immediately return calls seeking comment.  Some investors sued claiming J. Crew Chief Executive
Officer Millard Drexler, who began negotiating with the buyout
firms months before the deal became public, didn’t get a fair
price for the retailer.  The suing shareholders accused Drexler of using his
executive clout to create a sale process that excluded all
potential buyers except TPG and Leonard Green, blocking other
bidders from making better offers.  Competing Bids  Under the original settlement, J. Crew officials agreed to
extend the period to solicit competing bids and cut the so-
called breakup fee if TPG’s and Leonard Green’s offer was
trumped.  Investors’ lawyers backed out of the settlement, claiming
the retailer violated the original agreement by taking steps to
discourage other bids. J. Crew then filed suit in  Delaware 
seeking to force shareholders to accept the $10 million accord.  Shareholders’ withdrawal from the original settlement left
J. Crew, TPG and Leonard Green officials “no choice but to
litigate in order to obtain the rightful benefit of their
bargain,” lawyers for the companies said in the May complaint.  Chancery Court Chief Judge Leo Strine still must approve
the new settlement before it becomes final. No date has been set
for that hearing, according to court dockets.  After approval, the money will be paid to “shareholders of
record of J. Crew common stock at the closing of the merger,”
the agreement states.  The case is In re J. Crew Shareholders Litigation, 6043,
Delaware Chancery Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  