-- 
Japan Carmakers Boost Production ‘Like We Never Have Before’ After Quake

-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 
2011-08-31T11:30:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/japan-carmakers-boost-production-like-we-never-have-before-after-quake.html
Japanese carmakers are boosting
production “like we never have before” as they recover faster
than expected from the March 11 earthquake, the head of the
 Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association  said today.  Automakers are trying to compensate for production lost
between March and May, and plan to manage the supply chain
better in the future so they can maintain the “just-in-time
delivery method” that is Japan’s strength, Toshiyuki Shiga said
in  Tokyo  today.  “All the automakers are boosting production like we never
have before, and suppliers are preparing for expanding
production in the second half as well,” said Shiga, who is also
chief operating officer at Nissan Motor Co.  Production is gradually recovering from disruptions caused
by the quake. Japanese carmakers’ July domestic production was
down 8.9 percent from the year earlier to 790,325 vehicles, the
association said today. That compares to a 14 percent drop in
June and a 30.9 percent drop in May.  The month-to-month production increase is partly a response
to dealers who don’t have enough vehicles, Shiga said. Japanese
automakers are hiring temporary workers amid expectations of a
sales rebound for the full year after the earthquake and tsunami
damaged plants, weakened demand and disrupted output.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and Nissan expect to resume full
production globally by October, and for this year’s global sales
to beat last year’s.  “When I spoke with actual dealers, I didn’t feel like
global economic growth was slowing down,” Shiga said. “They
were telling me how they were still short of inventory, and I
think it’s too early to start worrying about an over-supply.”  Trade Surplus  Shiga said the members of the auto group had a trade
surplus of 11.5 trillion yen ($150 billion) in 2010. If the
higher yen crimps that surplus, the entire Japanese economy will
be affected, he said.  Carmakers may have to begin thinking about the production
that they keep in  Japan , and shift some overseas, Shiga said.
The stronger currency cuts the value of repatriated earnings for
Japanese automakers. The yen strengthened 0.2 percent to 76.63
per dollar today.  Japan must meet new Corporate Average Fuel Economy, or
CAFE, rules “no matter what,” Shiga said. “The standards have
been introduced in  Europe  and the  United States , so we need to
meet the standards as well,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  