-- 
Japan Output Less Than Forecast as Global Slowdown Hits Post-Quake Rebound

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-08-31T05:43:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/japan-output-less-than-forecast-as-global-slowdown-hits-post-quake-rebound.html
The rebound in  Japan ’s industrial
production after the March 11 earthquake may be coming to an
end, making the nation’s economic recovery even more dependent
on overseas demand.  Factory output increased a less-than-expected 0.6 percent
in July from June, the slowest gain since March, the Trade
Ministry said in  Tokyo  today. Production has recovered to 95
percent of its level before the March temblor and tsunami, the
ministry said.  Incoming Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  faces pressure to
reverse three straight quarters of economic contraction just as
 Europe ’s debt crisis and elevated U.S. unemployment undermine
global confidence and demand. The yen’s advance to a postwar
high against the dollar this month is also threatening the
earnings of exporters such as Honda Motor Co. and  Denso Corp. (6902)   “The report points to growing concern over the outlook for
the economy as the overseas economy is slowing and the yen is
staying at a historically high level,” said Shuichi Obata,
senior economist at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. “There’s a
high chance that the pace of Japan’s recovery will slow in the
fourth quarter.”  The median estimate of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News was for a 1.4 percent gain in production after a 3.8
percent increase in June.  The yen traded at 76.55 per dollar at 2:16 p.m. in Tokyo
from 76.72 before the report was published. The Nikkei 225 Stock
Average was little changed.  Currency Intervention  Japan’s currency strengthened to a post-World War II record
of 75.95 against the dollar on Aug. 19, appreciating even after
authorities intervened on Aug. 4 in the foreign exchange market
for the first time since March to slow its gains. A stronger yen
makes Japanese products less competitive abroad and erodes
overseas profits when they’re repatriated.  Government reports this month showed that exports fell more
than expected in July, the jobless rate rose for a second month
and retail sales dropped, signaling Japan’s economy is
struggling to recover.  Today’s output data “suggest that the rapid recovery phase
resulting from the restoration of the supply chain is nearly
finished and the pace of increase is starting to slow,”  Yoshiki Shinke , senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute
Inc., said in a report today.  South Korean Output  South Korea ’s industrial output also increased a less-than-
estimated 3.8 percent from a year earlier in July, and slid 0.4
percent from June, Statistics Korea said today.  Japanese manufacturers said they plan to increase output
2.8 percent in August and decrease production 2.4 percent in
September, a survey included in today’s report showed.  Denso, Toyota’s biggest auto parts supplier, said the
strong yen is undermining its recovery from the quake and may
prevent the company from raising its full-year profit forecast.  “Because of the super-strong yen, manufacturing in Japan
is placed in a very difficult position,” Denso President
Nobuaki Katoh said on Aug. 24. “The negative impact of the yen
is offsetting our increase in production.”  Output of electronic parts and devices fell 3.4 percent
last month from June, the sharpest decline in three months,
today’s report showed.  Production in the transport sector slowed to a 5.3 percent
increase after a 19.5 percent gain in June and a 36.6 percent
jump in May, according to the data.  Honda Motor, Japan’s third-largest carmaker, said on Aug. 9
it may revise its full-year profit forecast when it announces
first-half earnings in October, depending on how long the
market’s turmoil lasts.  The government last week unveiled a $100 billion program to
aid exporters and spur overseas purchases as the yen’s more than
6 percent advance against the dollar in three months threatens
exporters’ sales and profits.  Parliament elected Noda to succeed  Naoto Kan  yesterday to
become the sixth prime minister in five years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  