-- 
Noda Led Biggest Yen Sales Since ’04 in Failed Push to Halt Currency Gain

-- B y   M o n a m i   Y u i   a n d   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 
2011-09-01T02:26:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/japan-s-incoming-leader-noda-oversaw-biggest-yen-intervention-since-2004.html
Incoming Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  oversaw Japan’s biggest currency intervention in seven
years last month as finance minister. He may have to take even
bolder steps in his new job to rein in the yen.  The government sold 4.51 trillion yen ($59 billion) in the
 currency market  during August, according to a statement released
yesterday by the Ministry of Finance, the largest monthly amount
since March 2004. Noda, who was elected premier on Aug. 30,
faces pressure to reverse three-straight quarters of economic
contraction as the yen’s advance to a postwar high against the
dollar last month threatens the earnings of exporters.  “Intervention won’t stop the strong-yen trend,” said
 Tsutomu Soma , a bond and currency dealer at Okasan Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “Policy makers need to do something drastic,
something that can hurt the market players so much to change the
yen’s rising direction.”  Japan ’s currency has rallied more than 4 percent since the
government’s intervention on Aug. 4 pushed the yen to as low as
80.24 per dollar. The yen erased all its losses since the action
even as  Bank of Japan  expanded monetary stimulus by 10 trillion
yen and the  Finance Ministry  introduced a $100 billion funding
program to encourage domestic businesses to shift yen-
denominated funds to foreign currencies.  The yen has climbed 5.2 percent over the past three months
versus its U.S. counterpart and touched a post-World War II
record of 75.95 per dollar on Aug. 19, reducing the value of
Japanese exporters’ overseas sales when repatriated. It traded
at 76.95 to the greenback as of 11:22 a.m. in  Tokyo .  Need for Action  The intervention in August was the biggest since Japan sold
4.53 trillion yen in March 2004 as part of 14.8 trillion yen in
sales during the first quarter of that year. The Bank of Japan
on behalf of the government sold 692.5 billion yen in March this
year, when it led a coordinated effort with the Group of Seven
nations to counter yen strength after the March 11 earthquake
and tsunami.  “The effects of one-off currency sales haven’t lasted long
and just give traders a good opportunity to sell the dollar
against the yen,” Okasan’s Soma said. “We have little hope
unless there is a big change in policies.”  Noda, 54, who will be Japan’s sixth prime minister in five
years, said yesterday he talked with U.S. Treasury Secretary
 Timothy F. Geithner  on the phone and they agreed that Japan and
the U.S. will work together to ensure global economic stability.
The two didn’t discuss foreign-exchange intervention or
currencies, Noda told reporters.  ‘Right Timing’  “Japan will step in again when necessary and they are
waiting for the right timing,”  Masafumi Yamamoto , chief
currency strategist at Barclays Bank Plc, said in Tokyo. “When
downward pressure for the dollar recedes while the yen stays at
strong levels, intervention by the BOJ will probably have bigger
impact on the dollar-yen rate.”  Noda presided over Japan’s only currency interventions
since 2004 when he became the youngest finance minister in two
decades in June 2010. Last September, Japan unilaterally sold
2.12 trillion yen.  Noda has advocated raising taxes rather than issuing bonds
to pay for rebuilding after the record quake and ensuing nuclear
disaster, and to reduce the world’s largest debt.  Speaking on Aug. 30 after his predecessor  Naoto Kan ’s last
Cabinet meeting, Noda said he wants to pass a third post-
disaster stimulus plan quickly. Japan’s fiscal situation is
“severe,” and the country can’t postpone revamping the tax and
social welfare system, he said.  Japan’s large manufacturers base their business plans for
this fiscal year on the assumption that the yen will average
82.59 per dollar, according to the Bank of Japan’s quarterly
 Tankan survey  released on July 1.  Honda Motor Co. Chief Financial Officer Fumihiko Ike told
reporters Aug. 9 that he’s concerned the yen may strengthen to
the low 70s against the dollar, further hurting the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net . 