-- 
KB Home Partner Fights Settlement Over Bankrupt Las Vegas-Area Development

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-08-31T20:04:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/kb-home-group-335-settlement-over-bankrupt-las-vegas-project-faces-fight.html
Builders  KB Home (KBH) ,  Beazer Homes USA
Inc. (BZH)  and  Toll Brothers Inc. (TOL)  face opposition to their plan to
settle a dispute over a bankrupt Las Vegas-area development for
at least $335 million.  Focus South Group LLC, a junior partner in the $1.2 billion
South Edge LLC development, opposes a settlement between the
builders and lenders led by JPMorgan Chase Bank NA. Focus South
claims a lawsuit against the builders would raise enough money
to complete the project.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Bruce A. Markell refused today to let
Focus South file such a lawsuit, saying the company should first
fight the settlement as part of the South Edge bankruptcy case.  Pursuing the builders over the project’s collapse “is a
way to keep the pressure on,” Focus South attorney Scott Bogatz
said in court today in  Las Vegas . Bogatz said Focus South wants
to complete the development, which involved seven residential
villages and a commercial district spread over 1,940 acres.  In February, Markell ordered the appointment of a trustee
for South Edge, which is owned by the homebuilders and other
investors. KB Home is the lead investor. JPMorgan forced South
Edge into bankruptcy in December, accusing the builders of
mismanaging the project and of trying to escape liability for a
$585 million loan.  The builders, the lenders that financed the project and
their agent, JPMorgan, now back a plan of reorganization that
would settle the loan dispute and bring the development out of
bankruptcy without guaranteeing the project would be finished.  The builders said in court papers that the settlement is
the best way to end the bankruptcy and that a lawsuit wouldn’t
benefit the development.  The case is in re South Edge LLC, 10-32968,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , District of Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  