-- 
Eastman Kodak, Delano Farms, Hachette Book, Bravado: Intellectual Property

-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 
2011-08-31T11:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/kodak-delano-farms-hachette-bravado-intellectual-property.html
Eastman Kodak Co. (EK) , seeking to
generate cash from its intellectual property, has signed
confidentiality agreements with numerous potential buyers of
patents it put up for sale last month, Chief Executive Officer
Antonio Perez said.  “At the moment we announced that, the phone started to
ring,” Perez, 65, said in an Aug. 29 telephone interview.
Lazard LLC, Kodak’s adviser, has “contacted a large number of
people. There are a number of people who signed their NDAs,” he
said, referring to non-disclosure agreements protecting details
about inventions covered by the patents.  Kodak, headed for its sixth annual loss in the past seven
years, is trying to generate cash for its inkjet printers and
other digital businesses Perez is counting on to turn the
company around. The U.S. International Trade Commission has
delayed a ruling on Kodak’s attempts to win $1 billion in
licensing fees from  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM)  for
image-preview technology used in cameras.  Perez, CEO since 2005, said he’s seeking patent deals that
give Kodak cash up front as well as preserve licensing rights to
its technology.  “All of this litigation takes a lot of time, and it’s very
expensive and demands a lot of my time,” he said. “We would
rather get an infusion of cash in advance, being able to have a
series of relationships with many of those companies that
otherwise we’d have to be in legal conflict with.”  The more than 1,100 patents Kodak put up for sale July 20
may generate more than $2 billion, according to MDB Capital
Group, a Santa Monica, California-based investment bank
specializing in intellectual property.  “What we are selling is the part of the portfolio that
does not apply to the core investments and the future of the
company,” said Perez, who declined to disclose potential
bidders and specifics of negotiations.  He said Rochester, New York-based Kodak is trying to tap a
“very hot” market for intellectual property.  Google Inc. (GOOG) , the biggest maker of smartphone software,
agreed to buy Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. for $12.5 billion
this month. Google had earlier bid for more than 6,000 Nortel
Networks Corp. patents and applications, losing out to a $4.5
billion offer from a group including Apple, Research in Motion
and Microsoft Corp.  “This is the right time,” Perez said. “The conversations
are going. We are hoping quickly to get to a good conclusion.”  Delano Farms Allowed to Sue Government Agency in Patent Case  Delano Farms Co., a grape grower based in Hoquiam,
 Washington , can sue to challenge three patents issued to the
U.S. Agriculture Department, a federal appeals court ruled.  The grape grower sued the Agriculture Department and its
licensee, the  California Table Grape Commission , in federal
court in Fresno,  California , in November 2007.  Delano, joined by two other growers, claimed the patents,
which covered three varieties of table grapes, weren’t valid
because they had been known, used and sold before the patent
applications were filed. They also claimed that federal
antitrust law was violated.  In dispute are patents PP15,891, for the Sweet Scarlet
grape variety; PP16,229, for Scarlet Royal grapes; and PP16,284,
covering the Autumn King variety.  The Agriculture Department had licensed the patents to the
grape commission, a marketing agency whose mission is to promote
the state’s table-grape industry. The commission is funded by a
tax levied on each box of table grapes produced in California.  The three plaintiffs claimed the commission contacted
California table-grape growers in 2004, telling the growers they
could keep their vines and avoid a lawsuit if they admitted they
possessed them, paid the commission $2 per vine they reproduced
and $2 a box of grapes they previously shipped and promised not
to propagate any more of those varieties.  This letter was sent before the patent applications were
filed, and the letter wasn’t disclosed in the patent
application, according to court papers.  In response to the suit, the Agriculture Department said it
couldn’t be sued under a legal doctrine that bars such actions
against the federal government. The trial court agreed, held
that unless the Agriculture Department was a party to the suit,
the patent claims couldn’t proceed, and dismissed the case.  The growers then appealed, arguing that the federal agency
wasn’t a necessary party to the patent claims. They also claimed
that their patent case against the government wasn’t barred
under the so-called sovereign immunity doctrine.  The appeals court said that because license between the
government and the commission didn’t give the commission any
right to enforce the patent against infringement, the government
had to be a party to the suit.  It found that federal law waiving sovereign immunity for
non-monetary claims against federal agencies is broad enough to
permit the growers to pursue patent-invalidation actions against
the Agriculture Department.  The appeals court did uphold the trial court ruling barring
the antitrust allegations. It said the growers failed to provide
a plausible basis for finding the patent grape varieties formed
a relevant antitrust market.  The growers’ case was argued by  Lawrence M. Hadley  of
 Hennigan Dorman LLP  of  Los Angeles . The California Table Grape
Commission’s argument was made by Randolph D. Moss of
Washington’s Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP.  The
government’s case was argued by Susan L.C. Mitchell of the
Commercial Litigation Branch of the Civil Division of the U.S.
Justice Department.  The lower court case is Delano Farms Co. v. California
Table Grape Commission, 1:07-cv-01610-OWW-SMS, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of California (Fresno). The appeal is
Delano Farms Co. v. California Table Grape Commission, 10-01546,
 U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit.  Microsoft to Withdraw Trade Claims Over Datel Xbox Controllers  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  said it would withdraw part of its patent-
infringement case against Datel Design & Development Ltd. over
controllers for the Xbox 360 video-game system.  Datel redesigned its controllers and stopped importing
versions known as TurboFire2 Xbox 360 Wireless that were at the
heart of a complaint before the U.S. International Trade
Commission in Washington, Microsoft said in a filing Aug. 29
that sought to withdraw the case. The software maker said it
still will pursue cash compensation for past infringement
through a civil lawsuit lodged against Datel last year.  “Datel’s voluntary exclusion of the accused products from
the U.S. market has obviated the need to devote valuable public
and private resources” of the ITC, Redmond, Washington-based
Microsoft said in the filing.  The controllers made by Staffordshire, England-based Datel
can turn single-shot electronic pistols used in games like
“Call of Duty” into fully automatic weapons. Closely held
Datel filed an antitrust lawsuit in November against Microsoft,
claiming the company seeks to monopolize the markets for
multiplayer online gaming systems and for accessories not sold
directly with the Xbox. Those claims also are proceeding.  The case is In The Matter of Certain Game Controllers, 337-
715, U.S. International Trade Commission (Washington). The
antitrust case is Datel Holdings Ltd. v. Microsoft Corp.,
09cv5535, U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
California ( San Francisco ).
For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Hachette Romance Novel Infringes Trademark,  Texas  DOT Claims  Hachette Book Group Inc. and its Grand Central Publishing
unit were sued for trademark infringement by the  Texas
Department of Transportation .  The suit, filed in federal court in Austin, is related to
the title of a book published by Grand Central. The book, by
Houston-based author Christine Craig, is “ Don’t Mess with
Texas .”  The DOT registered the phrase with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office in September 2002, and uses it in conjunction
with its  anti-litter campaign . The phrase is also used on
clothing, beverage containers, magnets, jewelry and printed
materials, and the state says it’s received “numerous awards
and favorable publicity” in connection with the mark.  The book, classified as a “romance novel,” is
objectionable to the DOT because it contains “numerous graphic
references to sexual acts, states of sexual arousal, etc.,”
according to court papers. The title is used without the DOT’s
authorization, the state says in its pleadings.  The state transportation department said it has licensed
rights to a book also titled “Don’t Mess with Texas” that is
sold in  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS) ’s stores and that the public is
likely to be confused by the similarity of the names.  The romance novel title is likely to tarnish the state’s
trademark, the department says in its complaint.  It asked the court to bar the defendants -- which include
the author -- from infringing the mark. This would include a ban
on the sale of the romance novel under that title. This would
extend to Barnes & Noble, which is also a defendant in the case.  Additionally, the department requested money damages and
profits derived from the sale of the allegedly infringing book,
and for awards of litigation costs and attorney fees.  Hachette’s Grand Central Publishing unit didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment.  The Department of Transportation is represented by  Dwayne
K. Goetzel  and  Eric B. Meyertons  of  Meyertons Hood Kivlin Kowert
& Goetzel PC  of Austin, Texas.  The case is Texas Department of Transportation v. Craig
1:11-cv-00726-SS, U.S. District Court, Western District of Texas
(Austin).  Bravado Files Infringement Suit Related to Metallica Tour  Bravado International Group Merchandising Services Inc.,
which sells concert-related merchandise for the heavy metal band
Metallica, filed a preemptive trademark infringement suit in
federal court in Oakland, California, Aug. 29.  The suit was filed against 100 unnamed defendants and one
unnamed company.  According to court papers, the unnamed defendants will be
present in Northern California, at the time of an upcoming
Metallica concert. The band is set to perform tonight in San
Francisco and the concert is sold out.  Bravado, which sells clothing, posters, tour books and
related items at the concert venue, is seeking to halt the sale
of unauthorized merchandise at tonight’s concert and at other
upcoming U.S. venues for tour. London-based Bravado is the
merchandiser for a wide range of musical performers including
Alicia Keys, Katy Perry, Green Day and Justin Bieber.  According to the band’s website, Metallica will be
performing in  New York ’s Yankee Stadium in September, and after
traveling to India and  Brazil , will return for four sold-out
performances in San Francisco in December.  Bravado claims that the unauthorized merchandise is of
lower quality and injures both the company and the band because
the sellers of the fake items don’t pay royalties. Additionally,
the counterfeit goods are not subject to the same quality
control, Bravado says.  The company asked the court for orders barring the sale of
the counterfeit goods, and authorizing the seizure and
destruction of all the fake goods. Bravado asked that the U.S.
Marshals Service, local law enforcement or its own agents be
authorized to seize the counterfeit merchandise.  Additionally, the company seeks awards of money damages,
attorney fees and litigation costs.  Bravado is represented by Cara R. Burns of  Santa Monica ,
California’s Hicks Mims Kaplan & Burns.  The case is Bravado International group Merchandising
Services Inc. v. John Does 1-100, 4:11-cv-04244-SBA, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Slep-Tone Uses Trademark Law Against Karaoke Infringers  Slep-Tone Entertainment Corp. , a maker of karaoke
accompaniment tracks, sued more than 20  Florida  companies for
trademark infringement.  According to the complaint, the defendant companies are
accused of using media-shifted copies of Sound Choice karaoke
accompaniment tracks without having acquired the original
authorized disks. As a result, they aren’t paying royalties to
the owners of the copyrights in the underlying musical works.  The unauthorized copies contain Slep-Tone’s registered
trademarks, the company says in its pleadings. Widespread
karaoke piracy “has contributed to the loss of more than 60
jobs” at the company as well as “several consecutive years of
operating losses,” Slep-Tone claims.  The suit, filed in federal court in Pensacola, Florida, is
one of 24 trademark suits the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based
company has filed this year. In a  posting  on the
SoundChoiceSucks.com blog, Kurt Slep, chief executive officer of
Slep-Tone’s Sound Choice unit, said he chose to sue for
trademark infringement “because it was simply easier than doing
both copyright and trademark infringements and made our case
easier to prove.”  The defendants are accused of “turning a blind eye” to
the actions of what are known as “karaoke jockeys” who operate
the unauthorized systems.  Slep-Tone asked the court to order the defendants to stop
infringing its trademarks, and for awards of money damages,
defendants’ profits related to the alleged infringement, and for
extra damages to punish the defendants for their actions. The
company also asked for a court order for seizure and destruction
of all infringing items, and for awards of attorney fees and
litigation costs.  The  North Carolina  company is represented by  James M.
Harrington  and  Maria D. Floren  of  Harrington Law PC  of Concord,
North Carolina.  The case is Slep-Tone Entertainment Corp. v. Tequila  Mexico 
of Pensacola Inc., 0:11-cv-61908-JIC, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of Florida (Fort Lauderdale).  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Pirate Bay Founders Say New Site Won’t Infringe Copyrights  Two founders of the Pirate Bay file-sharing site say
they’ve started a new site that will respect copyright rules,
the  BBC   reported .  Pirate Bay, founded in Sweden in 2003, has been a frequent
target of litigation aimed at illegal sharing of music and other
content, the BBC reported.  The new site, to be called BayFiles, will let users share
and store music, movies and other content with designated others
rather than the general public, according to the BBC.  BayFiles founders Peter Sunde and Fredrik Neij told the BBC
they will comply with legitimate requests to remove infringing
content, and will warn those who attempt to download and share
content without authorization.  For more copyright news, click here  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 