-- 
Korean Won Falls, Bonds Surge This Month on Slowdown Concerns

-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 
2011-08-31T03:20:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/korean-won-falls-bonds-surge-this-month-on-slowdown-concerns.html
South Korea ’s won headed for the
biggest monthly loss since November and  government bonds  rose
after data showed industrial output expanded the least in 10
months, fanning concern an economic slowdown will worsen.  Industrial production in South Korea rose 3.8 percent in
July from a year earlier, the least since September 2010 and
less than the median 6.2 percent increase forecast by economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The currency reversed earlier losses
today as the MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of regional stocks gained
for a fifth day on speculation the Federal Reserve will unveil
measures to boost the  U.S. economy  when it meets next month.  “The currency is erasing earlier losses as other Asian
currencies rose on expectation the  Federal Reserve  may announce
stimulus measures, supporting  market sentiment ,” said Hwang Sun
Min, a Seoul-based currency dealer at Kookmin Bank. “Still, it
is hard to judge whether this rising trend will continue.”  The won dropped 1.6 percent this month to 1,071.10 per
dollar as of 11:44 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The currency advanced 0.1 percent today, after having
declined 0.2 percent earlier. It has advanced 4.7 percent in
2011.  A few Federal Reserve members wanted more aggressive action
to support the U.S. economy, minutes of the Aug. 9 Federal Open
Market Committee released yesterday show. The central bank has
tools to spur expansion, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last
week.  South Korea’s industrial output may improve in August after
slowing in July due to seasonal factors, Finance Minister Bahk
Jae Wan said at a meeting today. Exports rose 25 percent from a
year earlier in August following a 25.2 percent increase in
July, according to the median forecast of economists in a
Bloomberg survey before data due tomorrow.  The government’s three-year bonds advanced for a second
day. The yield on the 3.50 percent bonds due June 2014 fell four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 3.47 percent,
according to prices from Korea Exchange Inc. The yield dropped
37 basis points since July 31, the biggest monthly slide for a
benchmark three-year note since 2008.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  