-- 
N.Z. Business Confidence Falls to Four-Month Low, ANZ Bank Says

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-08-31T01:49:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/n-z-business-confidence-falls-to-four-month-low-anz-bank-says.html
New Zealand  business confidence fell
to a four-month low in August as global financial-market turmoil
threatens to damp demand for the nation’s exports, according to
a survey by ANZ National Bank Ltd.  A net 34.4 percent of companies expect the economy will
improve over the next 12 months, down from 47.6 percent in July,
according to the survey released in Wellington today. The net
figure, which subtracts the number of pessimists from the number
of optimists, was the lowest since April.  Export intentions slipped to a two-year low as a credit
downgrade in the U.S. and sovereign-debt concerns in  Europe  pose
a threat to global growth and demand for New Zealand’s shipments
abroad, which make up 30 percent of gross domestic product.  “New Zealand’s prospects are inextricably linked to what
happens overseas,” ANZ Bank Chief Economist Cameron Bagrie said
in a statement. “Given the backdrop, we are not surprised to
see greater cautionary tones in business sentiment.”  A second measure of expectations for companies’ sales and
earnings declined to 43.3 percent, compared with 43.7 percent in
July, pointing to annual growth of 4.5 percent by early 2012,
Bagrie said.  “Ultimately it is what businesses think of their own
business prospects that is the more reliable indicator,” he
said.  Still, the survey of 455 companies showed firms were less
optimistic on the outlook for profits and fewer expect to hire
more workers. Investment intentions also declined.  While fewer firms expect to raise prices, expectations for
the annual inflation rate in one year from now rose to 3.45
percent, the highest level since November 2008, Bagrie said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  