-- 
Nazi Doctor Conjures Memories of Teeth-Drilling Madman: Movies

-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 
2011-08-31T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/nazi-doctor-conjures-creepy-memories-of-teeth-drilling-madman-rick-warner.html
The no-anesthetic, teeth-drilling
scene in “Marathon Man” made dentists seem scary. Now another
Nazi-hunting film may do the same for gynecologists.  “ The Debt ” is a taut thriller about three Israeli secret
agents assigned to track down a notorious war criminal in the
mid-1960s. Posing as a young woman trying to get pregnant, one
of the spies visits an East German gynecologist suspected of
being the doctor who killed and maimed thousands of
concentration-camp victims.  She takes photos of him with a tiny necklace camera as he
examines her and questions her about her background. The tension
builds as suspicions mount that she might blow her cover and
find herself at the mercy of the Mengele-like doctor’s menacing
metal instruments.  John Madden (“Shakespeare in Love”) has directed a
masterful remake of the 2007 Israeli film “Ha-Hov.” Written by
Matthew Vaughn, Jane Goldman and Peter Straughan, “The Debt”
is a gripping drama spiced with intrigue, romance and a superb
cast that includes  Helen Mirren ,  Tom Wilkinson , Sam Worthington
and rising star Jessica Chastain.  It’s a tale of three places and two times -- a divided
Berlin during the  Cold War , when the young Mossad agents try to
kidnap Dr. Dieter Vogel; Israel in 1997, where the now retired
agents are venerated as heroes; and that same year in Ukraine,
where Mirren tries to assuage her guilty conscience about her
celebrity and the outcome of the original mission.  Divided Berlin  The scenes in Berlin evoke that tense time when the city
was the focal point of the nuclear standoff between the U.S. and
 Soviet Union .  The agents plan to smuggle their Nazi captive across the
border and then bring him to justice in  Israel . The contrast
between drab, oppressive East Berlin and open, prosperous West
Berlin is a chilling reminder of the horrendous wall that
separated families and left many freedom seekers riddled with
bullets.  Mirren, Wilkinson and Ciaran Hinds play the aging agents in
the 1990s, while Chastain, Worthington and Marton Csokas are the
younger versions. Danish actor Jesper Christensen portrays the
doctor with a cool rationality that makes him even scarier than
your typical Nazi brute.  “The Debt,” from  Focus Features , opens today across the
U.S. Rating: ***1/2  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 