-- 
NCAA Orders Eight Miami Football Players to Miss Games, Repay Gifts

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/ncaa-orders-eight-miami-football-players-to-miss-games-repay-gifts.html
The  National Collegiate Athletic
Association  ordered eight University of Miami football players
to miss games and pay for benefits received from booster Nevin Shapiro and athletics personnel.  “The student-athletes involved have acknowledged receiving
improper benefits and will now be responsible for restitution
and, in some cases, the student-athletes will also serve game
suspensions,” Miami Athletics Director Shawn Eichorst said in a
statement last night. “They understand that their actions
demand consequences.”  The 42-year-old Shapiro co-owned sports agency Axcess
Sports & Entertainment while he was a Miami booster and told
prosecutors he provided cash and benefits to at least 72
athletes from 2002 through 2010, according to Yahoo! Sports.
Shapiro is imprisoned for his role in a $930 million  Ponzi
scheme  and is under orders to pay $82.7 million in restitution.  Olivier Vernon will miss six games and repay more than
$1,200 he received in benefits including meals, transportation,
access to Shapiro’s game suite, drinks and cover charges at two
nightclubs.  Aravious Armstrong and Dyron Dye were suspended for four
games and must pay for gifts valued at $788 and $738
respectively that they received while being recruited.  “Involvement of third parties during recruitment will not
be tolerated,” said Kevin Lennon, NCAA vice president of
academic and membership affairs. “There must be accountability
for inappropriate behavior.”  Five other students at the Coral Gables-based school will
miss one game and make payments for benefits valued between $140
and $400.  Four student-athletes were told to repay less than $100
each and one was cleared of any NCAA violations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  