-- 
NJ Floods Keeps 10,000 Residents From Homes

-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 
2011-08-31T19:29:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/new-jersey-floods-keep-10-000-residents-from-homes-as-christie-seeks-aid.html
New Jersey ’s northern suburbs
remained in Hurricane Irene’s grip, with swollen rivers keeping
more than 10,000 people from their homes and utility crews
working to restore power to 190,000 customers.  The state, the most densely populated in the U.S., was
awaiting word on Governor  Chris Christie ’s request for a federal
disaster declaration. Janet Napolitano, U.S. secretary of
 Homeland Security , today was scheduled to tour the hardest-hit
areas, within 50 miles (80 kilometers) of New York City.
President  Barack Obama  will visit Paterson on Sept. 4, the White
House announced today.  “We expect the flooding to start to end today,” Mary J.
Goepfert, a spokeswoman for the New Jersey Office of Emergency
Management, said in a telephone interview. “Today is going to
be challenging, and part of tomorrow. I would not say that
everything is going to be all and well by Friday.”  From the beaches of North Carolina to  New York ’s Catskill
Mountains and the ski resorts of Vermont, Irene blew through the
Eastern Seaboard last weekend, killing 45 people, causing losses
of about $12.4 billion and leaving 6.69 million homes and
businesses without power.  The U.S.  National Weather Service  posted flood warnings for
the New Jersey counties of Morris, Essex, Passaic and Morris
through this evening. No rain was forecast for the area.  New Jersey Shelters  Obama today approved disaster applications from North
Carolina, where the hurricane made landfall Aug. 27, and New
York, where it hit the following morning as a weakened tropical
storm. Vermont, which sustained its worst flooding in 75 years,
was declared a disaster area yesterday. The designation triggers
cleanup and restoration funding from the U.S. Federal Emergency
Management Agency.  In New Jersey today, 852 people were in shelters in seven
counties, Goepfert said. The evacuees were among 10,107
residents still barred from their homes after 11 inland rivers
and their tributaries crested, some at record levels.  Teams were preparing to survey damage near the coast and
head north as floodwater recedes, Goepfert said. Municipal
workers in beachside towns were repairing boardwalks and
restoring dunes in preparation for the long Labor Day holiday
weekend, which marks the end of the tourism season.  Fairfield Submerged  In  Fairfield,  a township of 9,000 about 25 miles northwest
of  New York City , some areas were 8 feet to 10 feet (3 meters)
beneath water that had flowed from the Passaic River, Deputy
Police Chief Anthony Manna said. He spoke during a tour with a
reporter aboard a 2 1/2-ton military truck, which was submerged
to the bumpers. National Guard troops and police officers in
boats took some residents from their homes.  Bill Fitzgerald, president of the Fairfield Volunteer Fire
Department, said the water measured a mile wide in some places,
and carried raw sewage, gasoline and chemicals. Responders
dodged barbecue tanks, lawn furniture and lumber, he said.  “The biggest danger we have going on?” Fitzgerald said
during an interview at the firehouse. “Pick one: natural gas
leaks, electrical lines down, people staying in their homes and
water.”  In New York, 19 of 62 counties will be eligible for aid,
according to a release from Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s office
today, one day after the governor asked Obama for help.  New York Damage  The damage in New York state will be almost $1 billion,
with 600 homes wiped out, six towns inundated, 150 major
highways damaged and 22 state bridges closed, Cuomo said. He
estimated $45 million in agricultural losses on 140,000 acres, a
figure that is rising, he said at a press conference in
Prattsville, a Catskills town ravaged by torrential rains.  Of the 328,907 customers without power statewide, more than
half were on  Long Island , Cuomo’s office said. The Long Island
Power Authority estimates that 95 percent of its 190,000
customers will have their power restored by Sept. 2 at midnight.
In the Catskills, about 17,000 customers don’t have power.  “These are not communities of deep pockets, and these are
communities that will need economic help to restore
themselves,” Cuomo said at the news conference.  In  Vermont , Route 4, a gateway to ski resorts, was severed
in a dozen places, state officials said. In and around
Killington, 10,000 residents and vacationers were stranded, Town
Manager Kathleen Ramsey said yesterday.  In North Carolina, seven counties will be eligible for
federal disaster funding. The hurricane destroyed more than
1,100 homes and caused damage of at least $71 million, Governor
Bev Perdue said yesterday.  Damage South  “We are estimating right this minute that we’re up to
about $70 million worth of damage, simply in things that we’ve
eyeballed,” Perdue said yesterday at a news conference. “We
know there will be significant add-ons to that number with the
debris and the business interests, and obviously you will layer
on that agricultural and other kinds of issues. This has become
an expensive hurricane for  North Carolina .”  Irene caused losses of about $12.4 billion in the U.S.,
according to an estimate by Kinetic Analysis Corp., a firm that
predicts the effects of disasters. Insurers and reinsurers will
probably cover about $4.9 billion of that cost, according to
Kinetic.  “This was not a very strong wind event, but it was a very
strong water event,” Jan Vermeiren, chief executive officer of
Kinetic, said in a telephone interview. Private insurers
“rarely offer flood insurance, they only cover damage from
wind.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 Eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 Tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 