-- 
New York Attorney General Deposed 53 in Bank of America Case Over Merrill

-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-08-31T20:44:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/new-york-attorney-general-deposed-53-in-bank-of-america-case.html
The  New York  Attorney General’s
office has taken testimony from 53 witnesses in its
investigation into Bank of America Corp.’s 2008 acquisition of
Merrill Lynch & Co., a federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Kevin Castel in Manhattan said in an
order today that “there have been 53 examinations under oath by
the NYAG” in its investigation. The witnesses weren’t
identified in the order, which involved evidence gathering in
the case.  Castel, who is overseeing separate shareholder litigation
over the Merrill Lynch deal, said the depositions overlap with
information sought by both sides in the litigation in his court.  The attorney general’s office, under  Andrew Cuomo , now New
York’s governor, sued Bank of America, former Chief Executive
Officer Kenneth Lewis and former Chief Financial Officer  Joseph Price  in February 2010. In November,  Eric Schneiderman  replaced
Cuomo as attorney general.  The state accused Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of
America of misleading shareholders about huge losses at Merrill
Lynch to win approval of the deal and then manipulating the
federal government into contributing bailout funds from the
Troubled Asset Relief Program to complete it.  Danny Kanner, a spokesman for Schneiderman, had no
immediate comment on Castel’s order.  Bob Stickler, a Bank of America spokesman, said in an
e-mail that all of the depositions were taken while Cuomo was
attorney general.  “The vast majority of them were in 2009 and early 2010,”
Stickler said. “There is nothing new on the deposition front.”  The case is In re  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Securities,
Derivative and ERISA Litigation, 09-mdl-2058, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 