-- 
Noda Should Encourage Companies to Benefit From Yen’s Rise, Gyohten Says

-- B y   S h i g e k i   N o z a w a
-- 
2011-08-31T15:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/noda-should-encourage-companies-to-benefit-from-yen-s-rise-gyohten-says.html
Japan ’s incoming Prime Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  should encourage companies to use the yen’s rise
to invest abroad instead of protecting them by intervening in
the currency market, former currency official Toyoo Gyohten said.  “You can’t just protect the status quo in the foreign
exchange market,” Gyohten said yesterday in an interview in
Tokyo. “If there’s no way around the strong yen, it would be
good to make the most of it. Japanese companies should invest
directly overseas and the government should support that.”  The yen has risen 10 percent against the dollar in the past
12 months, reached a postwar record of 75.95 on Aug. 19, even
after authorities intervened on Aug. 4 in the foreign exchange
market for the first time since March to slow its gains,  selling 
4.51 trillion yen ($59 billion), the Ministry of Finance said on
its website today in  Tokyo .  Noda, who served as outgoing Prime Minister Naoto Kan’s
finance minister, should reverse Japan’s “simple, close-minded”
approach to the  currency markets , said Gyohten, 80, who was
Japan’s vice finance minister for international affairs from
1986 to 1989.  “Even if you intervene, nothing really changes,” said
Gyohten, currently president of the Tokyo-based Institute for
International Monetary Affairs. The yen has risen about five
times versus the dollar in the 40 years since the Nixon shock in
1971, when U.S. President  Richard Nixon  abandoned the gold
standard, he said.  “You have to wonder if you can really imagine the dollar-
yen going back to 90 or 100 yen,” Gyohten said. “If it’s
impossible, you need a whole new way of thinking.”  In 2009, Gyohten served as an adviser to former Finance
Minister Hirohisa Fujii. In 1992 he co-wrote “Changing Fortunes:
The Shaping of the International Monetary Order“with former
Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeki Nozawa in Tokyo at 
 snozawa1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brian Fowler at 
 bfowler4@bloomberg.net  