-- 
Nokia Stuck in Tax-Breaks Talks With Vietnam Over New Factory

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-31T11:14:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/nokia-stuck-in-tax-breaks-talks-with-vietnam-government-over-new-factory.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the world’s biggest maker
of mobile phones by volume, has entered a second round of
negotiations over tax breaks for its planned factory in Vietnam
after rejecting an initial offer, a government official said.  Vietnamese authorities have offered Nokia a fresh proposal
for tax incentives and are waiting for the Finnish company’s
response, Vice Minister of Planning and Investment Dang Huy Dong
said in an interview in Hanoi. He declined to give details of
the package under discussion.  Nokia announced plans on March 2 to build a plant near
Hanoi, saying it would invest 200 million euros ($289 million)
and target opening in 2012. The manufacturer is seeking status
as a high-tech producer, which can bring tax rates as low as
zero in the first year. Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is
cutting more than 1 billion euros in costs by the end of 2013
while refreshing its product lines to return the Espoo, Finland-
based company to growth.  “ Vietnam  has this huge opportunity to become the next
workshop of the world,” said Fred Burke, Ho Chi Minh City-based
managing partner at Baker McKenzie in Vietnam. “If they don’t
get it right with their tax incentives and the approval
processes, then they will blow it. People will just go
elsewhere.”  Nokia hasn’t announced whether the Vietnamese factory would
make mobile phones or smartphones, said spokeswoman Marianne
Holmlund.  Fighting Google  “Nokia’s commitment to Vietnam and Hanoi has not
changed,” Holmlund said. “We are working with the local
government on necessary procedures.”  Nokia already has 10 handset factories. Three make
smartphones, in Finland,  China  and  South Korea , and one in the
U.K. makes luxury models. Low-end mobile phones are made in
 Brazil ,  Mexico , China, Romania, Hungary and  India . A round of
4,000 job cuts announced in April spared the factories while
consolidating research and development sites.  The company has introduced dual-SIM phones in  Asia  to match
features with more nimble rivals using standard components from
Taiwan’s MediaTek Inc. It has added maps and social networking
applications on its midrange phones to counter increasingly
cheap smartphones that run on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system.  Nokia shipments of low-end phones  dropped  16 percent in the
second quarter. Smartphone volume fell 32 percent. The company 
announced the N9 Linux-based smartphone and updated models with
its Symbian software at press events in Asia this summer. 
It’s expected to start shipping a new line based on Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows Phone by year-end.  Intel Factory  “We are looking at the project positively,” Dong said.
“We gave them an offer and we’re waiting for them to come
back.” Senior Nokia managers didn’t accept the first offer that
Vietnamese officials proposed to the company, he said.  Vietnam’s efforts to attract foreign direct investment in
high technology took off when  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, opened a $1 billion assembly and testing plant last
year. Other foreign manufacturers with plants in the southeast
Asian nation of 87 million people include Samsung Electronics
Co., the second-largest maker of mobile phones, and Tokyo-based
Canon Inc., the biggest manufacturer of cameras.  Nokia had about 45 percent of the market for entry-level
phones costing 50 euros and below in 2009,  according to  a 20-F
regulatory filing in the U.S. Some of its handsets sell for as
little as  20 euros . The company said in March that the
Vietnamese plant would be instrumental in its effort “to
connect the next billion to the Web.”  --K. Oanh Ha, Diana ben-Aaron, Nicholas Heath. Editors:  Kenneth Wong , Simon Thiel.  To contact the Bloomberg News staff for this story:
K. Oanh Ha in  Hanoi  at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net ;
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  