-- 
Norway Retail Sales Drop More Than Forecast as Rebound Slows

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-08-31T08:56:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/norway-retail-sales-drop-more-than-forecast-as-rebound-slows-1-.html
Norwegian retail sales declined more
than analysts had expected last month as  consumer spending 
slowed amid faltering growth in Europe and the U.S.  Retail sales, excluding motor vehicles and petrol stations,
fell a seasonally adjusted 0.7 percent in July from the previous
month, the Oslo-based statistics office said today in a
statement on its website. Sales were expected to drop a monthly
0.3 percent, according to a Bloomberg survey of nine economists.
In the year, retail sales fell 1.2 percent.  “Norges Bank has forecast private consumption will rise by
3.5 percent in 2011,” said  Kyrre Aamdal , an economist at DnB
NOR ASA, in a note to clients. “Developments are so far weaker
than expected and, in isolation, suggest a smaller increase in
rates than was suggested in the June monetary policy report.”  The central bank this month scrapped a predicted rate
increase, after European and U.S. policy makers maintained
borrowing costs. The bank left its benchmark rate unchanged at
its Aug. 10 meeting, keeping the rate at 2.25 percent.  Aamdal also said that the July 22 bombing attack in Oslo
and massacre on Utoeya island also probably damped retail sales
last month.  The krone was little changed against the dollar at 5.3603
by 10:33 a.m. and strengthened 0.1 percent to 7.7354 per euro.  The world’s second-richest country per capita has been
shielded from  Europe ’s debt crisis so far, with non-oil economic
growth accelerating to 1 percent in the second quarter from 0.5
percent in the three first months of the year.  Still, policy makers must follow developments in Europe
closely, Finance Minister Sigbjoern Johnsen said earlier this
month. “We must have a very keen eye on the situation in Europe
because Europe is our main trading partner,” he said.  Nordea Bank AB today cut its 2011 and 2012 growth forecasts
for the Nordic country to 2.6 percent and 2.5 percent
respectively. This compares with previous forecasts for an
expansion of 3.3 percent this year and 3.1 percent next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josiane Kremer in Oslo at 
 Jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  