-- 
NRC May Urge Swift Action on Reactor Quake, Flood Safeguards

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-08-31T19:30:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/nrc-may-urge-swift-action-on-reactor-quake-flood-safeguards-1-.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission may require power-plant owners to act quickly to re-
evaluate safeguards against earthquakes and floods.  The agency’s staff discussed with industry and
environmental officials today six recommendations of an NRC task
force to improve safety. Among proposals being considered
“without unnecessary delay” are disaster safety and a
requirement for sturdier venting systems at aging reactors,
according to a document distributed at the meeting.  The NRC may adopt rules after an earthquake and tsunami in
March led to meltdowns and radiation leaks at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. An NRC task force in July
recommended taking steps at U.S. reactors, including improving
the ability of plants to handle natural disasters and power
losses. A 5.8-magnitude temblor near Dominion Resources Inc.’s
North Anna plant in  Virginia  on Aug. 23 may have caused ground
motion that exceeded the station’s design, the NRC said Aug. 29.  “Our goal is to get the task force recommendations into
our normal regulatory processes,” Eric Leeds, the NRC’s
director of the office of nuclear reactor regulation, said at
the meeting held in agency headquarters in Rockville,  Maryland .  The NRC’s staff will notify the commission by Sept. 9 which
task force recommendations the agency should consider without
delay. By Oct. 3, the staff is to set a priority for action.  The  Nuclear Energy Institute  wouldn’t support a task-force
recommendation to re-evaluate seismic and flooding protections
every 10 years, said Adrian Heymer, director of strategic
programs at the Washington-based industry group.  “We don’t think you should wait 10 years,” he told NRC
officials. “If you get new information you should act on it and
move ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  