-- 
To Defeat Terrorists, Start Using the Library: Scott Helfstein

-- B y   S c o t t   H e l f s t e i n
-- 
2011-08-31T00:03:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/to-defeat-terrorists-do-a-little-research-in-the-library-scott-helfstein.html
The information glut that marks the
21st century is evidenced in some unexpected places. Last month,
my organization, the  Combating Terrorism Center  at  West Point ,
released a  report  that sharply disputed conventional wisdom
about terrorism along the Afghanistan-Pakistani frontier.  The report argued that the Haqqani Network, a border-
spanning tribal group with deep ties to  Pakistan ’s government,
had been more influential than the Taliban in aiding al-Qaeda’s
rise.  How did we support this thesis, which has vast implications
for reconciliation efforts in the region as well as for the
distribution of U.S. military aid? Not with data culled from
clandestine operations in Pakistan’s tribal areas or from Osama  bin Laden ’s computer hard drive. The report was based on the
public statements and writings of individual extremists over the
past 30 years. Rather than ferreting out secret information,
researchers merely took extremists at their voluminous word.  It seems terrorists, too, are susceptible to the syndrome
known as Too Much Information.  The revolution in  information technology  has opened a new
vein of intelligence collection and analysis that in many
instances can prove more useful than traditional forms of
spycraft. In the world of espionage, information and the
clandestine means of gathering it are both treasured. “Open
source” intelligence, by contrast, is a commodity with little
inherent value. Instead, the capacity to organize and analyze
these public streams of information becomes a key asset. This
represents a drastic shift, with far-reaching implications for
intelligence agencies.  Google Intelligence  In another recent  effort , the Combating Terrorism Center
used Google Trends -- hardly a cloak-and-dagger operation -- to
assess the popularity of the Muslim Brotherhood in the midst of
the Egyptian uprisings. In the U.S., fears of the Brotherhood’s
Islamist agenda dominated public discussion. Not so in  Egypt ,
where Google Trends indicated that during the revolution,
Internet searches for non-Brotherhood political figures dwarfed
those for the Brotherhood.  Do such open-source data provide scientific proof of public
consciousness? No, but they challenge hard-baked conventional
wisdom and provide a corrective to guesswork. By tapping the
open source of Google Trends, we threw light on a complex mass
phenomenon for which traditional intelligence gathering was ill-
suited.  Google Trends is just one tool available to open-source
analysts, with new information caches constantly emerging.
Technological platforms such as  search engines  and social
networks receive a tremendous amount of attention, but they are
among a multitude of sources. Newspapers, magazines, blogs, news
websites, radio and television interviews can be just as
valuable.  In 2009, we surveyed Arabic-language news to produce a
 report  on victims of al-Qaeda violence. The results showed that
85 percent of the casualties were citizens of Muslim-majority
nations. That simple exercise in data collection and analysis
sparked a valuable debate in  Muslim countries  about the tactics,
goals and morality of the terrorist organization. In a battle
for hearts and minds, that’s a powerful effect. Al-Qaeda
spokesman Adam Gadahn took the report seriously enough to
respond publicly, defending his organization.  Capturing and organizing thousands of Twitter messages or
conversation streams from hundreds of social networks requires
language competency and the analytical skills to draw
conclusions from large unstructured data sources. The report on
al-Qaeda’s violence was coded and analyzed by just three people.
Some open-source collection and analysis can be very labor-
intensive, though there is an increasing array of technological
tools to help. They haven’t surpassed the capacity of trained
individuals, but they do represent a new frontier of
intelligence gathering, one that is worthy of investment.  Understanding  Libya   In some cases, open source may be the only means of
gathering intelligence, particularly in closed societies where
repressive governments rely on networks of informants to
cultivate fear and stifle communication. When civil violence
broke out in Libya, the intelligence community struggled to keep
pace with the complex political cross-currents of secular,
Islamic and radical factions. In many cases, the local and
international news media became the best real-time information
sources.  Open-source analysis has its limits. A few years back, a
team of mathematical and computer modelers used such data to
predict the location of Bin Laden. Their analysis placed him far
from his actual compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan. In such
tactical and operational matters, secret intelligence plays a
far more important role. In the future, however, as digital
media, social networking and camera phones proliferate,
leveraging open-source channels will grow even more important.
U.S. intelligence agencies should reorient their budgets,
personnel and operations to properly exploit them. The world is
telling us much. It’s wise to listen.  (Scott Helfstein is director of research for the Combating
Terrorism Center at West Point and provides advice on
international affairs in the public and private sectors. The
opinions expressed are his own and not those of the U.S.
Military Academy, the Army or the  Department of Defense .)  To contact the author of this article:
Scott Helfstein at   scott.helfstein@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 