-- 
Obama to Press Congress on Extending U.S. Transportation Funding

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/obama-to-press-congress-on-extending-u-s-transportation-funding.html
President  Barack Obama , along with
labor and business leaders, today will urge Congress to extend
legislation funding highways and mass-transit projects before it
expires next month as a way to protect jobs.  Obama’s call for a clean extension of the surface
transportation bill comes less than a month after congressional
Republicans and Democrats ended a standoff over aviation funding
that temporarily displaced thousands of federal and construction
workers. He also plans to announce next week a package of
proposals to spur job creation and improve the economy.  The president will be joined today at the White House by
David Chavern, chief operating officer for the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, and AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka  to press
lawmakers for an extension of the bill, according to the
president’s schedule released by the White House. The
legislation, set to expire Sept. 30, also authorizes the federal
18.4 cent-per-gallon gas tax.  Obama will argue that the extension would protect almost 1
million U.S. jobs and strengthen the nation’s infrastructure,
the administration statement said.  The  U.S. economy  and the nation’s long-term debt will be at
the center of debate when lawmakers return from their August
recess next week. Gross domestic product climbed at a 1 percent
annual rate from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent
prior estimate, figures released by the Commerce Department on
Aug. 26 showed.  Combined with the 0.4 percent annual rate of growth in the
first three months of the year, the past two quarters were the
weakest of the recovery that began in mid 2009. The  unemployment
rate  was at 9.1 percent in July.  House, Senate Differences  The Senate, where Democrats have the majority, is at odds
with the Republican-controlled House over the transportation
funding measure.  Senator Barbara Boxer, a California Democrat who heads the
Environment and Public Works Committee, has outlined a proposal
for a $109 billion, two-year extension of the act with support
from Republican Senator James Inhofe of  Oklahoma .  John Mica, the Florida Republican who is chairman of the
House transportation committee, has put forward a version that
would cut future funding levels by about one-third.  Boxer has said the House plan would cause the loss of
500,000 highway jobs and an additional 100,000 transit jobs.  Shorter Extension  Boxer told transportation industry groups she would propose
extending the current legislation through Jan. 31, 2012, to give
lawmakers time to reach a compromise, the journal for the
 American Association  of State Highway and Transportation
Officials reported on Aug. 19.  The Highway Trust Fund faces insolvency next year after six
years of declining balances, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office . Obama and Republicans have ruled out a gas-tax
increase and have suggested making up the shortfall by
attracting more private-sector funding. The federal gasoline tax
was last raised in 1993.  The differences over the transportation bill will be
debated amid efforts to trim the nation’s long-term deficit.  A 12-member supercommittee of lawmakers from the House and
Senate was created earlier this month to find $1.5 trillion in
budget savings over 10 years to avoid automatic, across-the-
board spending cuts. The panel was given a Nov. 23 deadline to
offer a proposal.  The drive to cut the deficit also is constraining Obama’s
options on  job creation . He’ll unveil his jobs agenda next week,
including proposals, more infrastructure spending, tax
incentives to spur hiring, a reduction in the employer portion
of the payroll tax credit and changes to  unemployment insurance 
to subsidize worker retraining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 