-- 
Obama Seeks Joint Session for Jobs Speech

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-08-31T19:41:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/obama-requests-joint-session-of-congress-on-sept-7-to-unveil-jobs-plan.html
President  Barack Obama  has requested
a joint session of Congress on Sept. 7 for a prime-time address
to unveil his proposals to promote job growth.  The request would place Obama in a forum that presidents
traditionally reserve for their annual State of the Union
addresses and momentous occasions such as national crises as he
opens the fall political season with a new economic agenda.  In a letter to House Speaker  John Boehner , Obama said he
wants to announce his initiatives to create jobs and jump-start
the economy in an address at 8 p.m. Washington time.  “It is my intention to lay out a series of bipartisan
proposals that the Congress can take immediately to continue to
rebuild the American economy by strengthening small businesses,
helping Americans get back to work, and putting more money in
the paychecks of the middle class and working Americans, while
still reducing our deficit and getting our fiscal house in
order,” Obama wrote.  Obama confronts Republicans in Congress who already have
signaled resistance to additional federal spending. Republicans
won control of the House from Democrats in 2010 on a campaign
that stressed criticism of Obama’s economic stewardship and the
$830 billion stimulus he pushed through Congress in 2009.  Kevin Smith , a spokesman for Boehner, didn’t have any
immediate comment about Obama’s request.  Republican Debate  The speech will be the same night and time that eight
Republican presidential candidates are scheduled to debate at
the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library in Simi Valley,
 California .  Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus said
in a message on Twitter that Obama’s plan to give the address on
the night of the debate is “further proof” that the Obama
White House “is all politics all the time.”  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  said the schedule
overlap “is coincidental” and the speech scheduling depended
on the congressional calendar. Asked at a White House briefing
whether the administration intended to interfere with the
Republican debate, Carney said, “No, of course not.”  He said there are “many channels” available for Americans
who wish to watch both the presidential speech and the
Republican debate, which he characterized as “one of many”
scheduled for the primary campaign.  Joint Session  Besides his annual State of the Union addresses, Obama used
the forum of a joint session of Congress once before, in
September 2009, when he was prodding lawmakers to act on his
proposal to overhaul the U.S. health-care system.  Among the provisions Obama has been considering for his
jobs agenda are more infrastructure spending, tax incentives to
spur hiring, a reduction in the employer portion of the  payroll
tax  and changes to  unemployment insurance  to subsidize worker
retraining, according to people familiar with discussions.  Obama has spent much of the year pressing Congress to act
on a familiar set of plans: renewal of a 2-percentage-point cut
in the employee-paid portion of the payroll tax and extended
 unemployment benefits , which are both scheduled to expire on
Dec. 31; establishment of an infrastructure bank to fund public
works spending; ratification of free-trade deals; and
overhauling  patent law . Obama has said those also will remain
priorities.  Economic Challenges  Obama said in his letter that the nation, with an
 unemployment rate  of 9.1 percent, faces “unprecedented”
economic challenges. More than two years after the recession’s
official end, the jobless rate is just one percentage point
below its post-financial crisis peak of 10.1 percent, which it
reached in October 2009.  Concern about the economy has increased as growth weakened
during the first half of the year to its slowest pace of the
recovery and financial markets turned tumultuous amid concern
about the European debt crisis.  The signs of weakness have led private economists to
increase their forecasts for the unemployment rate next year,
when Obama faces re-election. The median forecast for
unemployment during next year’s fourth quarter is 8.5 percent,
according to 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News Aug. 2
through Aug. 10.  Since World War II, no U.S. president has won re-election
with a jobless rate above 6 percent, with the exception of
 Ronald Reagan , who faced 7.2 percent unemployment on Election
Day in 1984. The jobless rate under Reagan had come down more
than 3 percentage points during the prior two years.  Administration Forecast  The administration will give its updated forecast on the
economy and the deficit tomorrow in its mid-session budget
review.  In his letter to Boehner and Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, Obama wrote that on his three-day bus
tour in  Minnesota , Iowa and  Illinois  in mid-August, he “heard a
consistent message: Washington needs to put aside politics and
start making decisions based on what is best for our country and
not what is best for each of our parties in order to grow the
economy and create jobs. We must answer this call.”  Melissa Giller, a spokeswoman for the library’s foundation,
and John F. Harris, the editor-in-chief of Politico, which is
sponsoring the debate with NBC News, didn’t immediately respond
to e-mails seeking comment on whether the timing will be
changed.  Joel Prakken , senior managing director of Macroeconomic
Advisers LLC in  St. Louis , said he doesn’t “have high hopes --
really any hopes” of a significant boost to economic growth
from Obama’s latest initiatives.  Weak Demand  “We just don’t think that can make up for the fact that in
the private sector demand is so weak right now,” said Prakken,
who published an Aug. 24 analysis of Obama’s options based on
media reports of items under consideration.  Still, Michael Greenstone, an economics professor at the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and former chief economist
for Obama’s  Council of Economic Advisers , said tax incentives
for hiring could by themselves put hundreds of thousands of
people back to work at a cost of $30 billion.  A $5,000 tax credit for new hires combined with a five-
percentage-point reduction in payroll taxes on the net increase
of wages paid by a business would stimulate 900,000 additional
new jobs, according to his analysis. The tax break would also
wind up subsidizing about 5.1 million new hires that Greenstone
forecasts will occur without the incentives. Consequently, the
cost per additional job would be about $35,000 apiece, he said.  The White House hasn’t disclosed how a tax incentive for
new hires would be structured, and its impact and cost would
depend on details such as the amount of a credit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  