-- 
Obama Urges Congress to Pass Extension of Transportation Bill to Save Jobs

-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 
2011-08-31T20:23:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/obama-urges-congress-to-pass-extension-of-transportation-bill-to-save-jobs.html
President  Barack Obama  urged
lawmakers to extend legislation to fund highways and mass-
transit projects, saying a failure to do so will cost thousands
of construction jobs and delay needed infrastructure repairs.  “It’s inexcusable to put more jobs at risk in an industry
that’s already been one of the hardest hit in the last decade,”
Obama said at the White House today.  The current law expires Sept. 30 and the president is
seeking to head off a battle over differences between the House
and Senate to avoid a lapse in funding and tax revenue as
occurred when the  Federal Aviation Administration  was partially
shut down for two weeks when the two chambers couldn’t agree on
legislation to extend the FAA’s authority.  The  U.S. economy , job growth and the nation’s long-term
debt will be at the center of debate when lawmakers return from
their August recess next week. Obama has requested a joint
session of Congress on Sept. 7 to unveil a package of economic
proposals, including tax breaks to spur hiring and more spending
on infrastructure. Republicans, who control the House, have
signaled they’ll fight new spending proposals or measures to
raise government revenue.  Obama said the transportation legislation is critical to
keeping construction workers on the job and the nation’s roads
and mass-transit systems safe.  Priority Projects  He also directed the Departments of Agriculture, Commerce,
Interior, Transportation and Housing and Urban Development to
each select three “high-priority” construction projects
already funded that can be completed within 18 months.  Obama said the White House Council on Jobs and
Competitiveness headed by  Jeffrey Immelt , chief executive
officer of General Electric Co., recommended the directive.  “These are projects that are already funded and with some
focused attention we could expedite the permitting decisions and
reviews necessary to get construction under way more quickly,”
Obama said.  To illustrate what he said was broad support for action on
legislation, Obama was joined for his remarks in the Rose Garden
by David Chavern, chief operating officer for the U.S. Chamber
of Commerce, and AFL-CIO President  Richard Trumka . In a separate
speech in Washington today, Chamber President  Thomas Donohue 
endorsed spending on highway construction to create jobs.  ‘Scare Tactic’  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker John Boehner,
an Ohio Republican, said Obama’s remarks were “transparently
political” and a “scare tactic” because Republicans aren’t
threatening to let the surface transportation legislation
expire.  “Republicans support an extension of the highway bill and
appreciate the need for a long-term solution for infrastructure
projects,” Buck said in a statement.  The debate is happening against the backdrop of a sluggish
recovery and an  unemployment rate  at 9.1 percent in July.  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1 percent annual rate
from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent prior estimate,
figures released by the Commerce Department on Aug. 26 showed.
Combined with the 0.4 percent annual rate of growth in the first
three months of the year, the past two quarters were the weakest
of the recovery that began in mid 2009.  Jobs at Risk  If the law isn’t renewed, Obama said, about 4,000
construction workers would be out of work. If an extension is
delayed for 10 days, the government won’t collect almost $1
billion in fuel taxes that fund highway construction, he said.  “And if it’s delayed even longer, almost 1 million workers
could lose their jobs over the course of the next year,” Obama
said.  The legislation also authorizes the federal 18.4 cent-per-
gallon gas tax, which has been at the same level since 1993.
Letting it lapse would mean that  oil companies  including  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  BP Plc (BP) , and  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  may be able to keep about
$78.4 million a day meant for highway construction.  Obama also called on lawmakers to finish work on a longer
extension of the FAA’s spending authority. The short-term
measure that enabled FAA to resume full operations earlier this
month expires on Sept. 16.  The Senate, where Democrats have the majority, is at odds
with the Republican-controlled House over the transportation
funding measure.  Senator  Barbara Boxer , a California Democrat who heads the
Environment and Public Works Committee, has outlined a proposal
for a $109 billion, two-year extension of the act with support
from Republican Senator James Inhofe of  Oklahoma .  House Version  John Mica, the Florida Republican who is chairman of the
House Transportation Committee, has put forward a six-year
version of the proposal that would cut future funding levels by
about one-third.  Boxer has said the House plan would cause the loss of
500,000 highway jobs and an additional 100,000 transit jobs.  Boxer told transportation industry groups she would propose
extending the current legislation through Jan. 31, 2012, to give
lawmakers time to reach a compromise, the journal for the
 American Association  of State Highway and Transportation
Officials reported on Aug. 19.  Hurdles  There are hurdles in the Senate as well. A spokesman for
Senator Tom Coburn said yesterday that the Oklahoma Republican
will attempt to block an extension of legislation if
requirements to pay for bicycle paths and road beautification
projects aren’t removed.  The Highway Trust Fund faces insolvency next year after six
years of declining balances, according to the  Congressional
Budget Office . Obama and Republicans have ruled out a gas-tax
increase and have suggested making up the shortfall by
attracting more private-sector funding.  The differences over the transportation bill will be
debated amid efforts to trim the nation’s long-term deficit.  A 12-member supercommittee of lawmakers from the House and
Senate was created earlier this month to find $1.5 trillion in
budget savings over 10 years to avoid automatic, across-the-
board spending cuts. The panel was given a Nov. 23 deadline to
offer a proposal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in  Washington  at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 