-- 
MobiTV Plans $75 Million IPO to Raise Funds for Mobile-Television Service

-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 
2011-08-31T22:13:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/mobitv-plans-75-million-ipo-to-raise-funds-for-mobile-television-service.html
MobiTV Inc. , the maker of software
that lets smartphone users watch live television, filed to raise
as much as $75 million in an initial public offering of stock.  The company didn’t say how many shares it will sell or at
what price in its filing today with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  At least five companies have announced plans for IPOs in
the U.S. in the past week after filings were shelved at a record
pace earlier this month as stock markets worldwide plunged.
Angie’s List Inc., operator of a consumer-review website, and
Jive Software Inc., the maker of social-networking software for
businesses, disclosed plans for share sales last week.  Founded in 2000 by Paul Scanlan, Phillip Alvelda and Jeff
Annison, MobiTV has accelerated its growth in the past two years
as consumers have flocked to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and Google
Inc.’s Android devices. Revenue at the Emeryville, California-
based company rose 17 percent in this year’s first half to
$37 million from a year earlier, and its net loss narrowed to
$8.08 million from $9.36 million.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are managing the
IPO, with assistance from Robert W. Baird & Co., William Blair &
Co. and Pacific Crest Securities.  MobiTV’s biggest investor is  Gefinor Ventures , which owns
23.1 percent of the company.  Oak Investment Partners  holds
20.1 percent, followed by Menlo Ventures and Redpoint Ventures
at 13.3 percent each, according to the filing.  The company said it plans to trade under the symbol MBTV,
without saying what exchange the shares would be listed on.  Streaming Software  MobiTV has developed software that delivers sports, TV
shows and news to more than 375 different kinds of devices. The
company licenses content from television studios, including  CBS
Corp. (CBS) , News Corp.’s Fox, and  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, Disney and
ESPN. The number of mobile minutes streamed rose to 1.4 billion
last year from 264 million in 2007, according to the filing.  The company relies upon three customers --  AT&T Inc. (T) ,
Sprint Nextel Corp. and T-Mobile USA Inc. -- for most of its
revenue. AT&T and T-Mobile together accounted for 42 percent of
sales in this year’s first half. AT&T has proposed a $39 billion
acquisition of T-Mobile, which faces an antitrust challenge by
the U.S. government.  MobiTV also has high expenses because of costs to build out
and maintain a network. Operating expenses were $44.8 million in
the first two quarters, and total net losses for the past three
years were $54.5 million, the company said in its filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  