-- 
Lockhart Says Fed Should Be Ready to Weigh More Easing to Aid Weak Economy

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-08-31T19:42:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/lockhart-says-fed-should-be-ready-to-weigh-more-easing-to-aid-weak-economy.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said the Fed should be ready to
consider more monetary easing even while it can’t be expected to
eliminate some of the forces impeding economic growth.  “Given the weak data we’ve seen recently and considering
the rising concern about chronic slow growth or worse, I don’t
think any policy option can be ruled out at the moment,”
Lockhart said today a speech in Lafayette, Louisiana. “However,
it is important that monetary policy not be seen as a panacea.”  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said last week the central bank
has additional stimulus tools, while not providing details or
committing to deploying them. Policy makers will extend a
meeting next month to two days to “allow a fuller discussion”
of the economy and the Fed’s possible response, he said in a
speech at a conference at  Jackson Hole , Wyoming.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  at its Sept. 20-21
meeting will assess a  U.S. economy  that grew at a 1 percent
annual rate from April through June, down from a 1.3 percent
prior estimate, revised Commerce Department figures showed last
week in  Washington . Growth from January until June was weaker
than any other six-month period since the recovery began in mid-
2009.  Policy Adjustments  “We may find, as economic circumstances evolve, that
policy adjustments are required,” Lockhart said to the Greater
Lafayette Chamber of Commerce. “In more adverse scenarios,
further policy accommodation might be called for. But as of
today, I am comfortable with the current stance of policy,
especially considering the tensions policy must navigate between
the short term” and longer structural adjustments.  Lockhart said in response to audience questions that the
central bank should have a significant impact through its pledge
to hold  interest rates  low through at least mid-2013, while the
commitment may change should the economy gain strength.  The central bank’s pledge “should have a big influence on
the market,” Lockhart said. “Even that is conditional to an
extent” and “could be revisited,” he said. “For the most
part, we can count on it.”  Lockhart said to reporters after the speech that he doesn’t
now favor new monetary policy easing.  “Let’s get a bit more data,” he said. “I just think we
should not yet fully jump to conclusions. We need to give the
situation more time.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 stock index rose 0.1 percent to
1,213.67 at 3:31 p.m. in  New York , while yields on 10-year
Treasuries increased five basis points to 2.226 percent,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  New Round  The Atlanta Fed leader also told reporters that a third
round of bond purchases by the Fed, or quantitative easing, may
not be the best treatment for the economy now. Signs of a
recession or “deflationary pressures” would be needed for the
approval of more asset purchases, he said.  The Atlanta Fed chief said he was “a bit cautious” about
an idea of using the  unemployment rate  as a guide for when the
Fed should tighten policy. Such an approach may suggest the
central bank is targeting an employment level, even though job
growth hinges on factors other than monetary policy.  The Atlanta Fed has revised down its growth forecasts for
this year and next, Lockhart said. Reduction of debt by
consumers and businesses, financial system repair and fiscal
policy changes are inhibiting the recovery, he said.  “Temporary factors, such as spiking commodity prices and
supply chain disruptions related to  Japan ’s natural disaster,
held back economic activity earlier this year,” he said. “But
the slowdown cannot be explained by those factors alone” and
the “downside risks to growth have risen notably.”  Officials Divided  Fed officials are split on whether to do more. Chicago Fed
President Charles Evans said yesterday in a CNBC interview “I
would favor more accommodation.” He also called for specifying
“markers” for unemployment and inflation that would be needed
to raise interest rates from near zero.  Any new easing could face more opposition from some Fed
presidents. Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher,  Charles Plosser 
of Philadelphia and Narayana Kocherlakota of Minneapolis voted
against the August statement that pledged to keep interest rates
near zero at least until mid-2013. The last time three voters
dissented was on Nov. 17, 1992, under Bernanke’s predecessor,
Alan Greenspan.  Job Growth  Disappointing job growth is limiting  consumer spending ,
which accounts for 70 percent of output growth, the Atlanta Fed
official said.  “Higher cost of living and the weak labor market are
likely to have discouraged consumers from increasing
expenditures,” he said. “The consumer spending numbers for
July were a bit higher than expectations, but still not at a
level that would make for a robust recovery.”  Payrolls climbed by 70,000 workers in August after a
117,000 increase in July, and the unemployment rate held at 9.1
percent, according to the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News before Labor Department data Sept. 2.  Lockhart, 64, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy with Lockhart next voting in 2012. The Atlanta
Fed district includes  Alabama ,  Florida ,  Georgia , and portions of
 Louisiana ,  Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  