-- 
Modified Smallpox Vaccine Targets Cancer Cells While Missing Healthy Ones

-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 
2011-08-31T18:25:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/modified-smallpox-virus-can-target-cancer-cells-while-missing-healthy-ones.html
A genetically modified smallpox
vaccine was able to target and shrink tumors in some cancer
patients while leaving healthy cells unharmed, in the first
study to show the potential of using a virus to fight human
malignancies.  Almost two-dozen patients with advanced cancers were
injected with varying amounts of the virus, called JX-594, and
six participants in the highest dose group had their tumors
stabilize or shrink, according to the report released today by
the journal  Nature .  The trial demonstrated that a virus injected into the blood
stream could infect and spread within tumors without harming
other cells, said John Bell, one of the study’s authors and a
 cancer research  scientist at Ottawa Hospital Research  Institute .
Results were from the first of three testing stages generally
required for regulatory approval.  “It’s never been shown before that we could do this in
humans,” Bell said in an interview. “We even see in some
patients a modest therapeutic benefit.”  Researchers used the same strain of virus that’s used in
the smallpox vaccine, called vaccinia virus, because of its
natural ability to replicate itself in cancer cells, the report
said. They then modified it to enhance its cancer-fighting
properties.  While vaccinia virus is similar to smallpox, it doesn’t
contain smallpox and can’t cause the disease, according to the
U.S.  Centers  for Disease Control and Prevention.  New Approach  The approach differs from so-called cancer vaccines, such
as Merck & Co.’s Gardasil shot that targets a virus that causes
cervical cancer or Dendreon Corp.’s Provenge, which stimulates
an immune response against prostate cancer cells.  The therapy, developed by closely held San Francisco-based
 Jennerex Inc. , will be tested in a broader trial, said Bell, who
co-founded Jennerex and is its chief scientific officer. If
successful, the method could help patients whose cancer has
spread beyond one area.  “The big problem with cancer is not people showing up with
one tumor you can excise with a scalpel, the problem is
metastatic disease that you can’t even see where it is,” he
said. “By putting the virus in the blood system, it allows the
virus to go around and potentially find all the fertile ground
for it to grow in, all the places tumors are, and once it does
that, it can affect them all and destroy them.”  Some patients in the trial had side effects such as mild to
moderate flu-like symptoms that lasted less than one day,
according to the report. Jennerex, the Terry Fox Foundation, the
Canadian Institutes of Health Research and the Ontario Institute
for Cancer Research and others financed the study.  Jennerex has enough cash to run the next set of
experiments, and will likely look for additional funds later,
Bell said. The company’s name is based on Edward Jenner, an 18th
century English scientist who developed the first vaccination
with an inoculation against the related cow-pox virus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 