-- 
Ohio to Proceed With Sale of Five Prisons After Judge Denies Delay Request

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-08-31T20:32:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/ohio-to-proceed-with-sale-of-five-prisons-after-judge-denies-delay-request.html
Ohio  will proceed with its plan to
sell five prisons after a county judge denied a request today
for a temporary restraining order to stop the sale.  The Rehabilitation and Correction Department scheduled a
news conference for tomorrow in Columbus to announce the
contract awards, the department said in a release.  “We believe our process is sound,” Carlo LoParo, a
spokesman for the department, said by telephone from Columbus.  ProgressOhio , a Columbus nonprofit group that describes
itself as a “progressive voice for Ohio citizens,” filed a
lawsuit to block the sale on grounds it violated the state
constitution.  Judge  Patrick E. Sheeran  of Franklin County Common Pleas
Court declined to issue a restraining order and set a hearing
for Sept. 13 in Columbus to consider legal arguments.  “Neither the selection of bidders nor the awarding of a
contract will constitute irreparable harm for purposes of this
motion,” Sheeran wrote in his 16-page opinion.  Ohio wants to sell five prisons, including one that’s
closed and two that are privately operated, to raise an
estimated $200 million to help balance its budget.  Three companies submitted bids in June to buy and operate
the facilities, according to the correction department. They
are: Nashville-based Corrections Corp. of America Inc.,  Geo
Group Inc. (GEO)  of  Boca Raton ,  Florida , and Management and Training
Corp. of Centerville,  Utah .  The state offered three combinations of prisons for sale
and might award packages to different bidders, the agency has
said. The department plans to sign contracts by Sept. 1 for
companies to assume operation of the prisons by Jan. 1.  ProgressOhio and other opponents of the sale say the state
won’t get a fair value or realize the projected savings of
$6.6 million annually. Ohio’s alternative is closing prisons and
sending thousands of inmates out of state,  Gary C. Mohr ,
director of the Department of Rehabilitation and Correction, has
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  