-- 
Oilfield Service Companies Expect to See More Industry Mergers

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   M a r i a n n e   S t i g s e t
-- 
2011-08-31T18:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/oilfield-service-companies-expect-to-see-more-industry-mergers.html
Oilfield service and equipment
providers anticipate more mergers and acquisitions as valuations
fall.  “I do absolutely expect to see more M&A activity going
forward,” said Jorgen Rasmussen, chief executive officer for
Archer Ltd., which negotiated its acquisition price for the
Great White Energy Services group of companies down 15 percent
to $630 million. “We’ve already taken advantage of lower
valuations by lowering the price for Great White.”  The  energy industry  is being helped by stronger
international spending budgets by producers and explorers and
gross domestic product growth in emerging markets, according to
a Macquarie Equities Research note yesterday.  Oil and natural-gas companies are expected to spend $122
billion in the U.S. this year on exploration and production, 22
percent more than last year, James Crandell and  Omar Nokta ,
analysts at Dahlman Rose & Co., wrote in a June 7 note to
investors. The average number of active U.S. oil and gas rigs
rose to 1,826 in the second quarter, up 21 percent from 1,506 a
year ago, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   National Oilwell Varco, the largest U.S. maker of oilfield
equipment, expects to spend “well over” $1 billion on
acquisitions this year, Chief Financial Officer Clay Williams
said today in an interview in Oslo.  “The silver lining to the market downturn and volatility
is that perhaps it’ll make some companies that we’re interested
in more reasonably valued, and some interesting targets may
emerge,” Williams said. “We’re working hard to make those
transactions happen.”  Manufacturers Sought  The company, which is based in Houston, is looking mostly
at international acquisitions and wants to add more
manufacturers who make the gear used to produce oil and natural
gas.  “I think National Oilwell Varco is very well represented
in drilling, and although we have lots of products going into
production, we’re less well represented there,” Williams said.  Cameron International Corp. (CAM) , the second-largest U.S.
oilfield equipment maker, today agreed to buy the drilling-rig
manufacturing segment of LeTourneau Technologies for $375
million in cash from  Joy Global Inc. (JOYG)   The price was “very fair” for Cameron,  Brian Uhlmer , an
analyst at Global Hunter Securities in Houston, said today in a
telephone interview.  “Cameron took advantage of global uncertainty, as well as
a lack of buyers,” Uhlmer said. Joy ended up getting less than
anticipated for the drilling rig business “because the market
really fell apart over the last several months,” he said.  The Philadelphia Oil Service Sector Index has fallen 15
percent since July 22.  Middle East   Archer is looking to expand in the Middle East, South East
Asia and  Australia , Rasmussen said in an Oslo interview.  “Some areas of the world, acquisitions are very easy, like
 North America ,” he said. “Some areas of the world it takes a
lot more time because there are not many local players and the
market is maybe dominated more by global players.”  Offshore driller mergers and acquisitions are expected to
grow “significantly” over the next two years, Nigel Browne and
Ryan McCormick, analysts at Macquarie Equities Research, wrote
yesterday in a note to investors.  Rowan Companies Inc., which announced in May its $1.1
billion deal to sell LeTourneau to Joy, is viewed as a takeover
target by several analyst firms including Macquarie.  Rowan’s Plan  The drilling-rig contractor, which is now solely focused on
offshore work, does not see itself merging or being acquired,
Matt Ralls, CEO for Houston-based Rowan said today in an Oslo
interview.  “We believe we have critical mass,” Ralls said. “We
don’t need to be part of a larger organization.”  Seadrill Ltd. sees further consolidation among rig owners,
chief financial officer Esa Ikaeheimonen said today in an
interview in Oslo. He adds that actually getting more attractive
deals done still won’t be easy.  “Valuation and stock market are one thing, but reality in
terms of where the deals are done is another thing,” he said
today in an Oslo interview. “It does at least keep people busy
in exploring opportunities and avenues to strike good deals.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .
Marianne Stigset at 
 mstigset@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  