-- 
London Olympics Drops Carbon-Offset Plan

-- B y   S a r a h   H a l l s
-- 
2011-08-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/olympics-drops-carbon-offset-plan-to-focus-on-u-k-benefits.html
Organizers of the London 2012
Olympic Games dropped a plan to cut  carbon emissions  during the
sporting showcase, abandoning a pledge made when it defeated
eight other cities to host the event.  Games administrators will “no longer pursue formal
offsetting procedures” to mitigate Olympics-related emissions,
documents posted on the London Olympics website said.  David Stubbs, the head of sustainability at the  London
Organizing Committee of the Olympic and Paralympics Games , or
LOCOG, said in an interview that going ahead with the plan would
have shifted the focus away from Britain.  Scrapping the plan, which would have involved offsetting
the emissions generated by the Games by investing in clean-
energy projects in poor countries, underlines how carbon-saving
measures are being overlooked to save money as the U.K. cuts
spending and increases taxes amid an economic slowdown. By
ditching the program, LOCOG may avoid spending as much as 2.7
million pounds ($4.4 million), according to prices quoted by
brokers MF Global.  “Officially, if you want to go down certified carbon-
offsetting all projects have to be overseas, so if we plant a
lot of trees in Essex that just doesn’t count,” said Stubbs,
referring to the English county. “Because the Games are in the
U.K., we wanted to maximize the Games locally. Doing formal
offsetting would be diverting things.”  3.4 Million Tons  LOCOG  estimated  the construction of facilities, the staging
of the Games and transportation of staff and athletes, dating
back to the day when the Games were awarded to  London , would
collectively generate more than 3.4 million metric tons of
greenhouse-gas emissions, including 438,000 tons from the
staging of the event.  Organizers of the Games had intended to compensate for some
of the greenhouse-gas emissions generated by the construction
and staging of the Olympics by purchasing so-called  carbon
offsets , or credits, which are created by funding clean-
technology projects in  developing countries . Greenhouse-gas
emissions are blamed for  climate change . Offset projects
generate carbon credits when they reduce pollution versus a
business-as-usual scenario.  Dropping the plan is “not fair,” said Darren Johnson, a
Green Party member of the London Assembly, the governing
authority for the capital. “Obviously we want the Olympics to
benefit London, but environmentally they should be a green
Olympics to benefit the whole world as well.”  ‘Behavior Change’  According to LOCOG’s 2011  sustainability report , ways of
reducing emissions at source range from using “design to reduce
or eliminate emissions at source” to “promoting behavior
change.”  “We’re not doing an offsetting program for the totality of
the Games,” Stubbs said. “We never said we would have a total
offsetting program. It’s a wider approach to compensate for
residual emissions.”  Instead of buying carbon credits itself, LOCOG appointed BP
Plc’s Target Neutral unit to offset the expected 34,000 tons of
CO2 generated through travelling to and visiting the Games.  BP Target Neutral is a not-for-profit company that works to
“reduce, replace or neutralize carbon emissions from
transport,” according to its  website . Target Neutral will also
offset the pollution from 5,000 official Games vehicles, and
advise and support Games visitors on how to reduce their carbon
footprint, the website said.  ‘Direct Impacts’  BP will source offsets from one project from each of the
continents taking part in the sports event,  Sheila Williams , a
BP Target Neutral spokeswoman in London, said in an e-mail.  “We did look at offsetting but as the program progressed
and we better understood our carbon footprint, we felt our
effort and resources should be focused on managing direct
impacts within our control, avoiding and reducing emissions,”
Adrian Bassett, a LOCOG spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Olympics chiefs made additional green commitments including
supplying 20 percent of electricity to the Park via local
renewable energy sources.  In June 2010, the  Olympic Delivery Authority , the public
organization responsible for developing and constructing new
Games’ venues and infrastructure, was forced to abandon plans
for a 2-megawatt wind turbine in the Olympic Park because it
contravened health and safety regulations embedded in an EU
Machinery Directive.  Ecotricity , a U.K. green energy company,
had won the contract to supply the turbine.  The cancellation trimmed the organizers’ 20 percent
renewable energy target to 9 percent, which will be met by a
combination of seven 5-kilowatt small-scale wind turbines in the
north of the Olympic Park, a biomass energy center in the Park,
and photovoltaic panels to be built on the roof of the media
center. The ODA has also submitted an application to install
solar cells on the media center’s car park after the Games.  With assistance from: Catherine Airlie, Mathew Carr, Alex
Morales, Lananh Nguyen, Alessandro Vitelli, Steve Voss. Editors:
Alessandro Vitelli, Randall Hackley.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Halls at 
 Shalls@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  