-- 
London Loses Out as Banks Consider Booking Trades Overseas

-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 
2011-09-01T09:41:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/london-the-biggest-loser-as-banks-look-to-book-trades-overseas.html
Banks in  Europe  are exploring ways
to cut costs by routing more of their trades and other business
through overseas subsidiaries, a plan that may shift  tax revenue 
away from London and loosen European regulators’ influence over
the lenders.  Nomura Holdings Inc.,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  are
among lenders preparing plans to book as much business as
possible through legal entities in jurisdictions where tax rates
are lower and rules on capital and liquidity are less onerous,
the banks and lawyers and accountants working with them say.  “Every bank is trying to work out the best way to be
structured under the new rules,” Chris Matten, a partner at
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP in  Singapore , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s not just a question of what activities banks
are in. It’s about which entities they put that business through
and in which jurisdictions.”  Banks could record as much as 30 percent of the value of
their trades through Hong Kong, Singapore and other
jurisdictions instead of hubs such as  London  and New York
without running into trouble with regulators, Matten said. Such
a move would hurt traditional hubs such as London because assets
are treated for tax and regulatory purposes in the country where
they are booked. It would also allow banks to sidestep the U.K.
bank levy, introduced last year to raise 2.5 billion pounds
($4.1 billion) from lenders operating in Britain, as well as any
financial transaction tax imposed by the European Union.  ‘Regulatory Pressures’  “It is really about trying to understand where all the
different regulatory pressures are going to squeeze the hardest
and looking to see if there are more efficient ways of
reorganizing the booking model and business model so as not to
have too many restraints,” Matten said in an interview with
Bloomberg TV today.  Lenders aren’t required to publish which entities they book
their assets through globally.  Banks are trying to find ways to reduce costs amid
declining revenue and a rising cost of doing business under
regulations introduced to prevent a repeat of the financial
crisis. The 50 biggest global banks have announced plans to cut
65,000 jobs since Jan. 1, according to company statements and
data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  “Capital scarcity has meant there is greater focus on
where activity takes place and where it is booked,” Peter Muir,
a London-based tax partner at Deloitte, said in a telephone
interview. “People are likely to be looking to arbitrage the
rules in a fair way to see if they can avoid more highly
regulated markets.”  ‘A Fair Contribution’  National regulators are likely to resist any measures that
put local creditors at risk. There has to be a legitimate reason
for suggesting that a trade be booked in a certain jurisdiction,
said Deloitte’s Muir.  “The purpose of the bank levy is to ensure the banking
sector makes a fair contribution, which reflects the risks they
pose to the financial system and the wider economy,” a British
Treasury spokesman said in a statement. “The levy legislation
includes a targeted anti-avoidance rule aimed at arrangements
entered into with the purpose or a main purpose of avoiding or
reducing a liability to the bank levy.”  The U.K. financial-services industry contributed 53.4
billion pounds in taxes for the year to March 2010, accounting
for 11.2 percent of the country’s tax income, according to a
December 2010 report from the City of London Corporation, the
financial center’s municipal government. That compares with 61.4
billion pounds the previous year and 67.8 billion pounds for the
year to March 2007.  Swiss Bank Taxes  The  Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority  is in
“intensive” discussions about the subject, spokesman Tobias Lux said in an e-mail. Swiss financial companies paid 58.6
billion Swiss francs ($72.5 billion) in 2010, or 10.7 percent of
all tax, according to the  Swiss Bankers Association . That
compares with 59.1 billion Swiss francs in 2009.  Banks’ global trading books can be subject to advanced
pricing agreements, where the tax authority in the country where
assets are booked agrees to share tax income with other
jurisdictions. That allows trades originating in Hong Kong,
London and New York over a 24-hour period to be booked through a
subsidiary in London, with the tax income being divided among
the countries.  Approaches Will Vary  “For a foreign bank with a U.K. branch which historically
booked activity through the U.K., if in fact the traders are in
say Asia-Pacific, they may look to book it through the Singapore
branch or subsidiary,” Muir said.  The most attractive booking model will vary from bank to
bank, according to analysts and lawyers. Options under
consideration include setting up new branches or subsidiaries in
more favorable jurisdictions such as  Hong Kong  and Singapore,
where taxes and capital surcharges are lower; booking a higher
proportion of trades through multiple existing entities rather
than through one global hub; and switching from a model based on
a network of global branches to one based on a series of ring
fenced, fully capitalized global subsidiaries.  Nomura,  Japan ’s largest brokerage, has its headquarters in
 Tokyo  and books the bulk of its global trading business,
including equities, bonds, foreign exchange and derivatives,
through London-based subsidiary Nomura International Plc. There,
it is subject to the  U.K. bank levy .  Nomura’s Model  “At the moment much of our European business is booked
through a central hub,” Chief Financial Officer Junko Nakagawa
said in an interview. “As regulators become more localized, one
option would be to place more business in a number of different
locations.”  Banks such as Nomura have tended to book all their business
in hubs because their clients prefer to deal with fewer counter-
parties and because it allows the banks to net out and hedge
their global risk holdings, a process known as risk-warehousing.  Cities such as London and  New York  have dominated because
they have the infrastructure to book, process and risk manage
large volumes of complex, derivatives trades, executives said.
The advantages of booking assets centrally are starting to be
outweighed by the cost of rising taxes and  capital surcharges 
though some bankers still question whether the other
jurisdictions have the personnel and expertise to compete.  HSBC Considers Changes  HSBC’s head of global banking and markets, Samir Assaf,
said in May the London-based bank will re-engineer its so-called
transaction booking model as part of a broader  cost-cutting
drive . The bank operates through a network of independently
capitalized subsidiaries that are subject to local regulations.
A person with knowledge of the situation said the bank may look
to cut the number of subsidiaries through which it books assets.
A spokesman for the bank declined to comment.  Plans by Swiss regulators’ to impose higher  capital
requirements  are prompting UBS to rethink its structure, Chief
Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel  said in February. The lender
operates a branch structure where assets booked by entities
overseas, including London, are subject to the regulations of
the Zurich-based parent.  Swiss regulators are considering forcing banks to hold 19
percent of their risk-weighted assets as capital, which includes
an allowance for contingent convertible bonds. Under Basel III
banks are required to hold 9.5 percent in core Tier 1 capital.  Gruebel said the bank may change its structure so capital-
intensive operations such as derivatives and securitization are
booked through fully capitalized subsidiaries.  John Cryan, chief financial officer at the time, said these
would likely include subsidiaries in London and the U.S. In a
July 26 letter to shareholders, Gruebel said the bank would
continue to evaluate “potential changes to our businesses,
corporate structure and booking model” in light of a weakening
economic outlook and increased capital requirements.  Lux at Swiss regulator FINMA declined to comment on UBS’s
plans. Banks must fulfill Swiss capital rules at a group level
as long as their headquarters are in the country, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  