-- 
Mongolia’s First Private Equity Fund Plans Debut Investment in October

-- B y   T o m o k o   Y a m a z a k i   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 
2011-08-31T02:25:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/mongolia-s-first-buyout-fund-plans-debut.html
Mongolia ’s first private-equity fund,
started by a former Uniqlo executive, plans to make its debut
investment by the end of October, betting on growth in the
country’s mining industry.  The Mongolia Opportunities Fund aims to raise $75 million
by June 2012 and has received $25 million from investors
including Mitsubishi Corp.,  Japan ’s biggest trading company;
International Finance Corp., the World Bank lending arm, and the
 European Bank for Reconstruction and Development , said co-
founder Batsaihan B. Jamichoi, who introduced the line of low-
cost cashmere sweaters at Uniqlo, a unit of Fast Retailing Co.,
Japan’s biggest apparel chain.  Mongolia, the world’s most sparsely populated nation, is
one of the richest countries in terms of natural resources and
has the second-largest reserves of rare earth. Economic growth
may surge to 23 percent in 2013, more than twice the forecast
expansion in  China , as  large mining projects  begin production,
the  International Monetary Fund  said.  “Mongolia is going to enter a high economic growth era and
we wanted to capture the opportunity in becoming the vehicle for
companies looking to grow their businesses,” Batsaihan, 37,
said in a telephone interview from Ulan Bator, the capital of
Mongolia.  Batsaihan, who is targeting infrastructure and service
providers in the country’s mining industry, is aiming to offer
new means of funding for Mongolian companies that pay an average
20 percent to 30 percent interest on bank loans, he said.  ‘Dutch Disease’  “Flow of capital is currently centered on Mongolia’s
mining industry and it has to be diversified -- otherwise the
country risks catching the so-called Dutch disease,” he said.  The term “Dutch disease” was coined by The Economist
magazine to describe a surge in income from new natural-gas
fields in the Netherlands during the 1960s that triggered a
currency gain and eroded exporters’ earnings.  The Mongolian fund, run by  Mongolia Opportunities Partners ,
has about 30 to 40 companies in the pipeline, with four of them
among the firm’s top picks for its first investment, Batsaihan
said. The four come from mining infrastructure, financial
services and construction material industries, he said.  Batsaihan expects industries supporting Mongolia’s mining
businesses to benefit as more mines are discovered for
development. Mongolia accounts for 16.77 percent of total
reserves of rare earth oxides globally, according to an Eurasia
Capital report published in January, based on data from the  U.S.
Geological Survey .  Surging Exports  Mongolia’s stock index was the world’s best performer in
the past five years as exports of coal and copper surged,
contributing to the nation’s economic growth.  The MSE Top 20 Index jumped 17-fold in the past five years,
making it the best performer among 92 benchmark stock measures
globally tracked by Bloomberg. The tugrik has strengthened 4.8
percent against the dollar in the last 12 months.  The fund, which targets an internal rate of return of about
30 percent, plans to invest in five to eight companies and will
hold the stakes for three to five years, Batsaihan said.  It may list companies it has put money in on Mongolia’s or
regional exchanges such as in  Hong Kong  to exit its investments,
he said.  The fund aims to seek alliances with Japanese companies
using Batsaihan’s experience in the country as a student and
working at Fast Retailing, he said.  “What I learnt from my days at Uniqlo was that nothing is
impossible if you set your heart to it,” said Batsaihan, who
previously worked as a manager in Fast Retailing’s marketing
department.  He will run the fund with executives from  Asia Pacific
Capital Ltd. , a Hong Kong-based asset management firm, including
Managing Director Gage McAfee, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tomoko Yamazaki in Tokyo at 
 tyamazaki@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  