-- 
Orders to U.S. Factories Increase on Automobiles, Aircraft

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-08-31T14:19:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/orders-to-u-s-factories-increased-in-july-on-demand-for-autos-aircraft.html
Orders placed with U.S. factories
rose in July by the most in four months, boosted by demand for
motor vehicles and aircraft that more than made up for a decrease
in business equipment.  The 2.4 percent increase in bookings was more than the
median forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey and
followed a revised 0.4 percent drop in the prior month, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington .  Vehicle orders climbed last month by the most since January
2003, the report showed, rebounding from a slump caused by supply
disruptions linked to the earthquake in  Japan . At the same time,
waning confidence has caused consumers and companies to pull
back, clouding the outlook for manufacturing, a mainstay of
growth since the end of the recession.  “Factory activity in July was catalyzed by a resurgence in
transportation,” said  John Herrmann , senior fixed-income
strategist at State Street Global Markets LLC in  Boston . “The
recovery for business investment may be a little more subdued.”  Bookings for machinery, computers and electrical equipment
declined in July, the Commerce Department’s data showed.  Factory orders were projected to rise 2 percent, following a
previously reported drop of 0.8 percent in June, according to the
Bloomberg survey of 59 economists. Estimates ranged from gains of
0.6 percent to 3.5 percent.  Stocks Rise  Stocks maintained gains after the figures and another report
showing a smaller-than-forecast decline in a business activity
gauge. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index increased 1.4 percent to
1,230.23 at 10:18 a.m. in  New York .  Another report today showed companies added 91,000 workers
to payrolls in August. The increase followed a revised 109,000
gain the prior month, according to data from ADP Employer
Services. The median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg called for an advance of 100,000.  Business activity in the U.S. expanded in August at a slower
pace. The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer fell to 56.5 this month, the lowest
reading since November 2009, from 58.8 in July. A level of 50 is
the dividing line between expansion and contraction. Economists
forecast the gauge would drop to 53.3, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Other regional reports for this month signaled
manufacturing, which accounts for about 12 percent of the
economy, is cooling. New York-region factories shrank for a third
straight month and manufacturing in the Philadelphia area
contracted by the most since March 2009, when the economy was in
recession.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond last week said its
business activity index dropped to minus 10 in August, the
weakest since June 2009, from minus 1 as orders contracted.  ISM Forecast  Figures from the  Institute for Supply Management , due
tomorrow, may also show manufacturing contracted in August, the
first pullback since July 2009, according to the Bloomberg survey
median.  “It is clear that the recovery from the crisis has been
much less robust than we had hoped,” Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said last week at the central bank’s annual
symposium in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming .  Demand for durable goods, which make up just over half of
total factory demand, rose 4.1 percent, today’s report showed.  Capital Equipment  Orders for capital goods excluding aircraft and military
equipment, a measure of future business investment, fell 0.9
percent, less than estimated last week, after rising 0.8 percent
the prior month.  Shipments of those goods, used in calculating gross domestic
product, fell 0.2 percent, previously reported as an increase,
after a 2 percent gain.  Bookings of non-durable goods, including food, petroleum and
chemicals, rose 1 percent.  Factory inventories rose 0.5 percent in July, and
manufacturers had enough goods on hand to last 1.32 months at the
current sales pace, compared with 1.33 months in June.  Round Rock , Texas-based  Dell Inc. (DELL) , the second-largest
personal-computer maker, reduced sales projections for this year,
citing uncertain demand and slower spending on PCs and consumer
technology.  “It’s clear that the demand environment is weaker and a bit
more uncertain,” Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden said on a
conference call Aug. 16.  Some manufacturers gaining from sales in emerging markets
include Deere & Co. The world’s largest farm-equipment maker this
month reported fiscal third-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates and raised its annual earnings forecast. Deere, based
in Moline,  Illinois , is introducing new products and expanding in
countries like  China ,  Russia  and  India .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  