-- 
Arsenal Signs Arteta, Benayoun Before Trade Deadline; Spurs Let Six Depart

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-09-01T09:27:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/tottenham-signs-midfielder-parker-from-west-ham-as-transfer-deadline-nears.html
Arsenal signed midfielders Mikel Arteta and  Yossi Benayoun , along with defenders Andre Santos and
Per Mertesacker before European soccer’s trade deadline. London
rival Tottenham added one player and let six leave.  Everton said Arsenal will pay 10 million pounds ($16.2
million) for Arteta after the clubs  agreed on a deal  last night
in the final hours of the transfer window, which ended at 11
p.m. London time. Arteta, 29, signed a four-year contract.  “Mikel indicated to me that he wished to join Arsenal if
a bid came in,” Everton manager David Moyes told his team’s
website. “I am very disappointed to lose him.”  Premier League clubs spent about 485 million pounds ($786
million) during the summer transfer period, a 33 percent
increase over last year, accountant Deloitte LLP said in a
statement. Arsenal, Chelsea, Liverpool, Manchester City and
 Manchester United  combined for about 66 percent of the total,
with each spending over 50 millions pounds  “This summer’s spending is largely focused amongst the top
end Premier League clubs most strongly competing for domestic
and European success and the consequent financial rewards,”
said Dan Jones, a partner with Deloitte’s Sporting Business
Group.  Arteta, who started as a trainee with Barcelona, followed
Israel captain Benayoun, Brazil full-back Santos and  Germany ’s
Mertesacker in joining Arsenal yesterday as manager Arsene Wenger rebuilds after selling Cesc Fabregas,  Samir Nasri ,
Emmanuel Eboue and Gael Clichy since the end of last season.  Worst Defeat  The Gunners lost 8-2 at Manchester United four days ago,
their worst league defeat since 1896, and have one point from
their first three Premier League games.  Benayoun, 31, signed on loan from Chelsea for the rest of
the season. Santos joined from  Turkey ’s Fenerbahce, where the
28-year-old scored 10 goals in 52 league games.  Mertesacker, a 6-foot-6 center-back who’s made 75
appearances for Germany, signed a “long-term contract” after
moving from Werder Bremen for an undisclosed fee.  Mertesacker, 26, has “vast experience and strength and is
good on the floor and in the air,” Wenger told his team’s
website. “He will be well-suited to the Premier League and a
tremendous asset to the team.”  Four players left Arsenal yesterday, three on season-long
loans. Henri Lansbury moved to West Ham and Joel Campbell went
to  France ’s Lorient, where fellow youngster Gilles Sunu
completed a permanent transfer.  Denmark striker Nicklas Bendtner went on a season-long loan
to Sunderland, which sold defender Anton Ferdinand to Queens
Park Rangers for as much as 3 million pounds. QPR also signed
 Manchester City  winger Shaun Wright-Phillips on a three-year
contract. Craig Bellamy also left City after signing a contract
with Liverpool, where he played in the 2006-07 season.  Hargreaves Moves  City signed former England midfielder  Owen Hargreaves  on a
one-year deal. Hargreaves, 30, was released by Manchester United
in June after knee injuries restricted him to four appearances
in three seasons.  Following the return of Welsh striker Bellamy, Liverpool
sold  Raul Meireles  to Chelsea after he submitted a written
transfer request. The Portuguese midfielder signed a four-year
contract, Chelsea  said  on its website without disclosing the
transfer fee. Liverpool will get 12 million pounds for the
player, the British Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Liverpool also sent a pair of midfielders to French clubs
as  Joe Cole  moved to Lille on season-long loan and Christian Poulsen joined Evian. Striker  David Ngog  moved to Bolton.  Tottenham signed West Ham midfielder  Scott Parker  and let
six players leave White Hart Lane. Neither club disclosed the
fee for Parker, which U.K. media reported was about 6 million
pounds. Spurs lost their opening two Premier League games.  The 30-year-old Parker, last season’s Football Writers’
Association player of the year, handed in a transfer request two
days ago stating that he wanted to play in the top flight.  “He’s what we need,” Spurs manager  Harry Redknapp  told
reporters. “He’s a good lad, great attitude. He’ll be great
around the place for us.”  Leaving the Lane  Spurs striker Peter Crouch and midfielder Wilson Palacios
moved to Stoke. Defender Alan Hutton signed a contract until
2015 with  Aston Villa , who also took midfielder Jermaine Jenas
on a season-long loan. David Bentley went to West Ham on loan
and academy midfielder Callum Tapping completed the Spurs exodus
by joining Scottish team Hearts.  “I was shocked at the quantity of players Tottenham got
rid of,” former England defender Martin Keown told the  BBC .
“Judging by the number they shipped out and the fact that they
haven’t been replaced, Spurs are obviously trying to reduce the
size of their wage bill.”  Stoke, which is playing in  Europe ’s Europa League this
season, said it paid a club-record 10 million pounds, which
could rise to 12 million pounds, for 6-foot-7 (2 meter) frontman
Crouch. Stoke also signed Birmingham striker  Cameron Jerome .  “These fantastic deals are a statement of this football
club’s intent,” Stoke Chief Executive Officer Tony Scholes said
on his team’s website. “To attract players of this caliber
shows our ambitions.”  Everton Changes  In other transfers, Everton signed Netherlands midfielder
Royston Drenthe and Argentine striker Denis Stracqualursi on
season-long loans from Real Madrid and Tigre, respectively. The
Toffees said they sold striker Jermaine Beckford to Leicester
for as much as 4 million pounds. Blackburn signed Birmingham
defender  Scott Dann  to a four-year contract.  Fulham added Juventus defender Zdenek Grygera and former
Porto striker Orlando Sa on free transfers and Costa Rica
attacking midfielder Bryan Ruiz on a four-year contract from
Dutch club FC Twente.  “Bryan Ruiz was always our intended target,” Fulham
manager  Martin Jol  said on his team’s website. “He is a player
who continues to attract interest from other top clubs. I’m very
happy, on this final day of the transfer window that he’s
decided to join Fulham.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  