-- 
HP Making Final Batch of TouchPads to Meet Surge in Demand

-- B y   N i c k   T u r n e r
-- 
2011-08-31T23:31:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/hp-to-make-final-run-of-touchpads-to-meet-flare-up-in-demand.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  will produce a
final run of its TouchPad tablet computer, after price cuts
generated a surge in demand for the discontinued product.  “Since we announced the price drop, the number of
inquiries about the product and the speed at which it
disappeared from inventory has been stunning,” Mark Budgell, a
spokesman for the  Palo Alto , California-based company, said in  a
blog post  this week. “A limited supply are coming and it will
be a few weeks before they are available.”  After announcing plans to stop making WebOS products,
including the TouchPad and a line of smartphones, Hewlett-
Packard cut the tablet’s price to $99, down from $499
originally. That made the devices a fifth the cost of  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s market-leading iPad and sent shoppers clamoring to find
them in stores. Hewlett-Packard’s final batch of TouchPads will
be available in the fiscal fourth quarter, which ends Oct. 31.  The company hasn’t changed its plan to discontinue devices
running WebOS, part of a shakeup that includes a possible
spinoff of its personal-computer division. Hewlett-Packard
gained the WebOS software in last year’s $1.2 billion purchase
of Palm Inc.  ‘Sample Ad’  Separately, the company posted  a “sample ad”  on its blog
promoting the idea of an independent Hewlett-Packard PC
business. Under the tagline “The spirit of a startup. The
security of HP,” the ad calls the PC division a “$40 billion
company.” Hewlett-Packard’s personal systems group, which
includes PCs, reported revenue of $40.7 billion in fiscal 2010.  “Our preferred course is to spin off our PC business into a
separate company, creating a more agile organization to help us
better anticipate change and quickly respond to customers,”
Hewlett-Packard said in the ad.  As for WebOS, the company is considering partnerships and
licensing deals with manufacturers that may use the software in
their devices, Hewlett-Packard Senior Vice President Stephen DeWitt said earlier this month. A sale of that business also is
possible, DeWitt said at the time.  Logical buyers for WebOS may include Samsung Electronics
Co., Research In Motion Ltd., HTC Corp., Amazon.com Inc.,
Facebook Inc., Sony Corp. and Microsoft Corp., said Shaw Wu, an
analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in  San Francisco . They could
use it to build a platform that competes with Google Inc.’s
Android and Apple’s iOS, he said.  “Having a larger installed base of TouchPad and WebOS
devices should increase the value of WebOS in a potential
sale,” Wu said today in research report.  WebOS has an appeal beyond consumer markets, and may be
alluring to companies in finance, transportation and retailing,
DeWitt said. Hewlett-Packard has struggled to get software
developers to build applications that would complement WebOS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Turner in San Francisco at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  