-- 
PCCW Said to Plan October Listing of Telecom Business Trust

-- B y   F o x   H u   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-08-31T09:32:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/pccw-plans-2-billion-listing-of-telecom-unit.html
PCCW Ltd. (8)  plans to raise as much as
$2 billion by listing its telecommunications assets as a
business trust in  Hong Kong  in late October, two people with
knowledge of the matter said.  PCCW will seek approval from Hong Kong’s stock exchange for
the initial public offering next week, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the information is private.
PCCW plans to sell a stake in the trust, which includes fixed-
line, broadband Internet and mobile-phone services, the company
said in June.  The deal would mark the first business trust to be listed
in the city. Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., operator of
the city’s bourse, said in March it may amend rules to allow
listings of business trusts, a structure PCCW has said would be
able to pay out a bigger proportion of its income as dividends
than a regular company.  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. this year said it chose  Singapore 
for the IPO of a business trust backed by some of the company’s
container-terminal assets because Hong Kong doesn’t permit such
listings.  Companies have raised $15.3 billion in initial share sales
in Hong Kong so far this year, compared with $17.5 billion for
the same period of 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China International Capital Corp.,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will manage the offering, the people
said. Proceeds from the sale will be used to reduce debt and for
investment in faster-growing businesses, PCCW said on June 2.  PCCW, led by Chairman Richard Li, aims to start trading on
Oct. 21, the people said. Anita Choi, a spokeswoman at PCCW in
Hong Kong, declined to comment on the timing on the listing.  After the spinoff, PCCW will retain operations including
divisions that offer pay-television and computer services, it
said in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  