-- 
Peabody Shows Coal Deals Burn Investors With Losses: Real M&A

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a   a n d   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e
-- 
2011-08-31T15:05:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/peabody-shows-coal-deals-burn-investors.html
Peabody Energy Corp. (BTU) ’s takeover of
 Macarthur Coal Ltd. (MCC)  is proving the biggest wave of coal-mining
acquisitions is also becoming the most costly for shareholders.  In the past 12 months, acquirers from Peabody to  Alpha
Natural Resources Inc. (ANR)  have fallen as much as 41 percent after
announcing more than $25 billion of deals for coal companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with the
32 percent gain in the first year buyers posted historically.
St. Louis-based Peabody has slumped 19 percent since announcing
an unsolicited bid for Macarthur Coal last month.  Companies are now paying twice the average takeover premium
to secure coal reserves on the bet that demand from steel and
power producers in  China  and the developing world will drive
prices higher. While analysts project the acquirers in the three
biggest deals will all report record earnings this year and
next, Citigroup Inc. and Stewart Capital say that some may be
paying too much in the face of a global economic slowdown and a
peak in prices of metallurgical, or steelmaking, coal.  “If you look at where the deals were done versus where
spot metallurgical coal prices were, it would suggest they were
doing them at the peak,” said Brian Yu, a San Francisco-based
analyst at Citigroup. “Investors do not want management to
dilute their earnings” with costly acquisitions, he said.  Peabody, the biggest U.S. coal producer, and ArcelorMittal,
the world’s largest steelmaker, agreed to buy  Macarthur Coal  for
A$16 a share, according to a statement yesterday.  Relative Value  The price was 48 percent higher than Macarthur Coal’s 20-
day trading average and almost three times the 17 percent
premium for deals announced prior to the past year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The deal also valued Macarthur Coal
at almost 20 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization, 56 percent more than the historical multiple.  The agreement came almost two months after the bidders made
an unsolicited bid of A$15.50 a share, which the board of
Brisbane-based Macarthur Coal rejected. Since the initial
proposal on July 11, Peabody’s decline has been almost twice as
large as energy stocks in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, the
benchmark gauge for American common equity.  “Clearly, not all deals are alike,” Vic Svec, a spokesman
for Peabody, said in a telephone interview today. “It’s about
choosing the right assets and paying the right price and then
managing them well as time goes on. I would reject a broad-brush
portrayal of growth by acquisition as somehow being negative.”  Bull Case  Giles Read, a London-based spokesman for  ArcelorMittal (MT) ,
didn’t immediately return an e-mail request sent outside normal
business hours.  While Peabody’s shares have declined, Brean Murray Carret &
Co.’s  Jeremy Sussman  says that ArcelorMittal’s interest in
acquiring Macarthur Coal shows that demand for coal continues to
increase and help support higher prices.  “It’s one thing for the acquiring coal companies to be
optimistic about pricing because they almost have to be, but
it’s another for the largest end-user in the world to be just as
optimistic that prices will stay high,” Sussman, an analyst for
Brean Murray in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  Still, coal-mining takeovers in the past year have resulted
in the buyers losing value. Of the seven deals valued at $1
billion or more, acquiring companies have declined 18 percent on
average, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Those buyers agreed to
pay an average premium of 33 percent, versus a 17 percent
premium for all prior industry deals.  Earnings Impact  “It’s better to be a seller in this environment than a
buyer,”  Malcolm Polley , who oversees $1 billion as chief
investment officer at Stewart Capital in  Indiana ,  Pennsylvania ,
said in a telephone interview. “If the economy slows, coal is
going to get hurt. That means that deals priced to perfection
based on realizing a certain sale price for the underlying
commodities is probably not going to be realized.”  Walter Energy Inc. (WLT)  of Tampa,  Florida , which paid the
industry’s biggest takeover premium to buy Vancouver-based
Western Coal Corp., has declined 12 percent since the deal was
announced in November. This month, the combined entity reported
quarterly per-share earnings that fell short of analysts’
estimates by 41 percent. The announcement caused Walter Energy
to plummet by the most since at least 1995.  “Our stock has been pretty volatile recently, but if you
go to our second-quarter earnings release you can draw a better
correlation there than any tie to the valuation paid in the
recent acquisition,” Michael Monahan, a spokesman at Walter
Energy, said in a telephone interview.  Alpha Natural, Massey  Shares of  Alpha Natural , which agreed in January to buy
Massey Energy Co. in the most expensive acquisition in industry
history, has since lost 41 percent.  Abingdon, Virginia-based Alpha Natural also reported a
quarterly profit this month that fell short of analysts’
projections by 16 percent. The result was weighed down by costs
related to the takeover of Massey, which owned the mine that
caused the worst U.S. coal mining accident in four decades.  Alpha Natural’s decline “reflects investor skepticism in
regard to the price paid and the timing of transactions,” Mark Levin, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond,  Virginia ,
said in a telephone interview.  Ted Pile , a spokesman at Alpha Natural, didn’t return
telephone calls or e-mails requesting comment.  Takeovers increased as coal prices peaked this year. Prices
surged 47 percent to a record $330 a metric ton in the second
quarter from the previous three-month period as demand for the
fuel in power stations and  steel mills  in China, the world’s
largest user of coal, jumped and floods in Queensland,  Australia 
constrained production.  ‘Carried Away’  Coal prices have since slipped 4.5 percent to $315 a ton
this quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The price of
metallurgical or coking coal, an ingredient used to forge steel,
will average about $275 a ton next year and $248 in 2013,
according to estimates from Citigroup.  While the price for pulverized coal that Macarthur produces
more than doubled to $275 a ton last quarter from 2009, it may
decline to $160 a ton by the second quarter of 2012, according
to Peter Hickson, Hong Kong-based global head of commodity
research and basic materials strategist at UBS AG.  “The risk lies in companies that get aggressive in order
to make the numbers go around,” Ari Levy, manager of the $235
million TD Energy Fund at Toronto-Dominion Bank, said in an e-
mail. “They may impute a higher long-term coal price than is
justified. It is quite easy to get carried away.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Kucera in New York at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net ;
Tara Lachapelle in New York at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 