-- 
Perry Less Likely Than Romney to Beat Obama in 2012, Poll Shows

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-08-31T10:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/perry-less-likely-than-romney-to-beat-obama-in-2012-poll-shows.html
Texas  Governor  Rick Perry , who leads
his rivals for the Republican nomination for president, is less
likely than his closest primary competitor to beat President
 Barack Obama  in the general election, a poll released today
found.  Just two weeks after he announced his candidacy for the
White House, 24 percent of Republican voters and those who lean
Republican say they prefer Perry while 18 percent favor former
Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney, according to a Quinnipiac
University poll.  “Being the new kid on the block has benefited Perry,”
said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac’s
Polling Institute. “With prominence comes scrutiny, and both
his Republican competitors and the Democrats are doing their
best to convince voters he’s not ’Mr. Wonderful’.”  While Perry leads the Republican field, Romney poses a
stronger challenge to Obama in a general election, according to
the the Aug. 16-23 poll of 2,730 voters, which has a margin of
error of 1.9 percentage points. Romney and Obama each would win
about 47 percent of the vote in a November 2012 match-up,
according to the poll. Obama topped Perry 45 percent to 42
percent, the poll showed.  Men and white voters prefer Romney to Obama, while the
president leads both Romney and Perry among women.  Men, Whites, Independents  “The president is now dead even with one top Republican
and just inches ahead of the other,” Brown said. “He needs to
improve his standing among men, whites and independents to
ensure his re-election.”  Perry, the longest-serving current U.S. governor and an
early Tea Party supporter, announced his presidential bid on
Aug. 13. Since then, he has been traveling through  Iowa ,  New
Hampshire  and  South Carolina  -- states that will hold the first
nominating contests early next year -- as he also boosts his
fund-raising.  Romney, 64, a former private equity investor, is trying to
differentiate himself from Perry by highlighting his business
experience.  “I have spent most of my life outside of politics, dealing
with real problems in the real economy,” he said yesterday in
Texas. “Career politicians got us into this mess, and they
simply don’t know how to get us out.”  Perry, 61, touts his success in creating jobs in Texas
while governor.  “Since I became governor in December 2000, Texas has added
more than 1 million net new jobs while the rest of the nation
has lost nearly 2.5 million jobs,” he said on a blog on his
campaign website.  Series of Polls  The Quinnipiac survey is the latest in a series of polls
that have shown Perry leaping to the front of the Republican
field. A CNN poll released Aug. 29 found 27 percent of
Republican voters prefer the Texas governor, with 14 percent
choosing Romney. That survey had a 4.5 percentage point margin
of error.  An Aug. 26 Gallup Poll showed Perry was the top choice of
Tea Party supporters, drawing 35 percent support, compared to 14
percent for both Romney and Minnesota Representative  Michele Bachmann , who is founder of the Congressional Tea Party Caucus.
That poll’s margin of error was 4 percentage points.  Bachmann, who won the Aug. 13 Iowa straw poll, was the
choice of 10 percent of the Republican and Republican-leaning
independent voters in the Quinnipiac poll. Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas had 9 percent.  Former Alaska Governor Sarah Palin, who isn’t officially
running for president, topped Bachmann and Paul with the support
of 11 percent of Republicans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  