-- 
Perry’s Texas Friends Find Donations Dovetail With Contracts

-- B y   A l i s o n   F i t z g e r a l d
-- 
2011-08-31T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/perry-s-friends-in-texas-discover-donations-dovetail-with-state-contracts.html
When  Texas  billionaire Harold Simmons wanted to build a radioactive waste dump, one data point
that would loom large in the permitting process wasn’t required
on the application: He is a major donor to Governor  Rick Perry .  “Everybody was aware that this was an important item for
the people that were seeking the license as well as for the
governor’s office,” said Larry Soward, a Perry-appointed,
Republican member of the Texas Commission on Environmental
Quality at the time of Simmons’s permit application.  Simmons, who has donated more than $1.2 million to Perry’s
campaigns, was granted the permit over the objections of some
TCEQ staffers concerned the site threatened the Ogallala
Aquifer, a water source for much of the plains.  At least three commission employees resigned in protest and
Soward voted against the permit. Meanwhile, a state employee who
advanced the permit became a lobbyist for the company a month
after it was approved.  The permit process for the site, run by Simmons’s company
Waste Control Specialists LLC, a subsidiary of the publicly
traded  Valhi Inc. (VHI) , is one example of how Perry’s donors’ close
ties to the governor can influence government grants,
appointments and permits.  Perry’s Aug. 13 entry into the 2012 Republican presidential
primary is casting new light on his record and adversaries are
using it to challenge his candidacy.  Political Attacks  “As Americans look past his swagger, they’ll see he
represents more of the same lobbyist-run politics as usual that
they despise,” said Rodell Mollineau, president of American
Bridge 21st Century, a Washington-based Democratic opposition
research group. Perry spokesman Mark Miner didn’t respond to
requests for comment.  Jim Henson, project director at the  Texas Politics Project 
at the  University of Texas  at Austin, said it isn’t unusual in
the Lone Star State for governors to favor business allies.  “Perry’s accumulated a long list of these stories,” said
Henson. “It’s always discomforting to look at these things,
when somebody is on one spreadsheet for campaign donations and
then shows up again on another spreadsheet for government
contracts or political appointments,” he said.  Waste Control Specialists  spokesman Chuck McDonald said no
favoritism was shown and the review was more rigorous to avoid
any appearance of impropriety.  “Since the owner of the company is a well-known, longtime,
multi-decade contributor to all conservative office holders,
that made everybody want to make sure that the process was
thorough and complete,” McDonald said.  Perry Record  Perry has a public record of rewarding his political donors
with jobs and state contracts. He has appointed about 4,000
people -- including many donors -- to commissions, boards and
other posts, according to Texans for Public Justice, an Austin-
based, nonpartisan group that tracks state political donations.  Last week,  Perry named   James Lee , president of JHL Capital
Holdings, to the Texas Higher Education Coordinating Board. Lee,
who served on Perry’s 2011 inaugural committee, has donated more
than $190,000 to Perry’s campaigns during the last decade,
according to Texans for Public Justice.  The governor also appointed  Dan Friedkin , chief executive
officer of The Friedkin Group, chairman of the Texas Parks and
Wildlife Commission. Friedkin is the third most generous
individual donor to Perry, contributing more than $750,000
during the last decade.  Business Grants  In addition to appointments, the governor controls two
business development funds to lure companies to Texas, help them
grow, and develop new industries. The funds are administered by
the governor’s office and Perry has final approval of all
awards.  The Texas Enterprise Fund has distributed more than $400
million in grants to 71 companies since 2004, according to a
state auditor report. Perry donors have been recipients,
including an April 2006 $500,000 grant to Sanderson Farms, whose
Chief Executive Officer Joe Sanderson has given Perry $165,000
in campaign contributions.  Simmons, chairman of Contran Corp., a holding company that
owns Waste Control Specialists, is the governor’s second largest
individual donor.  In addition to giving more than a million dollars to the
governor’s campaigns, Simmons, 80, donated at total of $600,000
to the  Republican Governors Association  when Perry served in its
leadership in 2007, 2008 and 2011, according to data compiled
for Bloomberg by the Center for Responsive Politics, a
Washington-based group that tracks political money. As Perry
faced both a primary and general election challenge last year,
Simmons gave the RGA $1.1 million, funds the organization used
to help re-elect its members.  Swift Boat Group  Simmons has been a Republican political benefactor for
years. He donated $4 million to the Swift Boat Veterans for
Truth that questioned Democratic nominee  John Kerry ’s Vietnam
war service in the 2004 presidential election. Last year, he
gave $1 million to American Crossroads, a group founded with
help from former Bush adviser  Karl Rove , according to the
center.  Simmons’ expansion into radioactive waste storage began in
Texas in 2003, when his company urged state lawmakers to pass
legislation allowing a private company to build and run a low-
level disposal site that would be owned by the state, according
to McDonald. Perry signed it into law on June 20, 2003.  Three Applications  A year later, Waste Control Specialists, which ran an
existing hazardous waste site in Andrews County in West Texas,
applied for three permits to dispose of radioactive waste.  The plan was to build three facilities on the 1,300-acre
site in Andrews County. One facility would take waste from
federal government national labs and military bases; another
would take waste from nuclear plants, hospitals and other sites
in Texas and  Vermont , as part of a joint disposal agreement; and
a third site would dispose of radioactive “by-products” from
anywhere.  The permits had to be approved by the  Texas Commission  on
Environmental Quality, whose three commissioners were all
appointed by Perry.  Environmentalists raised concerns because the site was near
the  Ogallala Aquifer , which provides water for drinking and
agriculture from Texas to  Nebraska . The engineers and geologists
reviewing the application for the commission said it didn’t
address those water contamination concerns. Glenn Lewis, part of
the TCEQ team that reviewed the permit, called the initial
application “laughably deficient.”  Texas Water Board  According to Lewis, the initial maps from the  Texas Water
Board  -- where five of the six members were appointed by Perry -
- showed the proposed disposal site was on top of the aquifer.
Waste Control Specialists drilled 560 borings and 450 monitoring
wells mapping the water and shared the data with the water
board. In 2006, the water board changed the maps, moving the
Oglalla’s boundaries away from the Waste Control Specialists’
site.  The new maps didn’t resolve the issue for the commission’s
engineers and geologists, who were still unsure the facility
could prevent radiation contamination of groundwater.  On Aug. 14, 2007, the review team wrote a memo explaining
their concerns that concluded, “Issuance of a license for the
proposed facility cannot be recommended.”  Two months later, the executive director of the agency,
Glenn Shankle, drafted the first permit and recommended
commission approval. Two agreed, and Soward voted no.  Permit Opposition  In an interview,  Soward  said he hadn’t concluded the
facility shouldn’t be located in  Andrews County . He was opposed
because of outstanding questions about the geology and the
process.  “There was an overriding issue out there that the agency
had somehow improperly handled the applications,” Soward said.
“I thought this whole matter should be subject to a very open
and involved contested case hearing to shine the brightest
possible light on these issues.”  Three members of the technical review team, including
Lewis, resigned or took early retirement to protest the permit
approval. Soward, who had served as a deputy to Perry when the
governor was agriculture commissioner, didn’t seek another
appointment to the commission and said he is no longer close to
Perry.  Shankle said he never saw the staff memo that recommended
against permit approval, and he said he was wasn’t pressured by
the governor to advance the permit. He began talks with Waste
Control Specialists about a job during the permitting process.
The commission approved the permits six months after he left, he
said. A month later, he became a lobbyist for the company.  “We agreed that we would not come to an agreement about
whether I was going to work with them until after the commission
decided on the permit. There was no influence whatsoever in this
matter,” Shankle said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alison Fitzgerald in Washington at 
 afitzgerald2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  