-- 
PFI Profits Too High, U.K. Lawmakers Say

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-08-31T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/pfi-profits-too-high-u-k-lawmakers-say.html
British lawmakers said investors are
making too much money out of the privately financed delivery of
public services and called on Prime Minister  David Cameron  to
explore other ways of paying for them.  The Public Accounts Committee of the House of Commons said
the Treasury needs to take into account the amount of tax paid
by investors when considering the benefits of Private Finance
Initiative programs. Investors also make too much money from
selling shares in the programs, the cross-party panel said in a
report published in London today.  “We have seen information which strongly suggests that
investors are making excessive profits from selling on shares in
PFI projects,” Margaret Hodge, a lawmaker from the opposition
 Labour Party  who heads the committee, said in an e-mailed
statement. “The government currently lacks sufficient
information on the returns made by investors, who have been able
to hide behind commercial confidentiality.”  The U.K. operates about 700 privately financed public
projects such as hospitals, schools, prisons, courts and roads
and is considering a further 61 proposals. The Treasury said in
July it expects to save 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) by
trimming their operating costs.  Britain has liabilities of 40 billion pounds from PFI
projects.  ‘Struggling to Pay’  “PFI is a bad deal for the taxpayer, and in the current
economic climate the case for it is weaker than ever,”  Dave Prentis , general secretary of Unison, the U.K’s biggest public-
sector workers’ union, said in an e-mailed statement. “Many
hospitals are now shedding staff and postponing operations
because they are struggling to pay off their PFI debt.”  The main business lobby, the  Confederation of British
Industry , said it wanted to see greater transparency in PFI
contracts.  “Given the current state of the public finances, private
finance must be an option if we are going to see major new
investment in infrastructure at an affordable price,” the CBI’s
deputy director-general, Neil Bentley, said in an e-mailed
statement. “What investors need now is a clear statement from
the government about how the use of private finance will
evolve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  