-- 
Pfizer Settles Lipitor Suit With Generic Maker Dr. Reddy’s

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-08-31T20:21:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/pfizer-settles-lipitor-patent-lawsuit-with-generic-drug-maker-dr-reddy-s.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , the world’s largest
drugmaker, settled a patent-infringement lawsuit with the Indian
generic-drug maker Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories Ltd. over the
cholesterol treatment Lipitor. The terms weren’t disclosed.  Pfizer, based in  New York , sued Dr. Reddy’s in December
2009 to block generic copies of Lipitor from coming out before
Pfizer’s patent for the tablets expires in 2017. The companies
settled on Aug. 19, and U.S. District Judge Leonard P. Stark in
Wilmington, Delaware, dismissed the case Aug. 29, according to
court records.  “We have closed our litigation with Pfizer, but the date
of entry into the market is not yet confirmed,” Kedar Upadhye,
a spokesman for Dr. Reddy’s, said in a statement.  Dr. Reddy’s, of Hyderabad,  India , announced the settlement
today in a statement. The agreement is subject to review by the
U.S. Justice Department and the Federal Trade Commission, the
company said.  “We can confirm that we have reached an agreement with Dr.
Reddy’s regarding a patent case involving Lipitor,”  Christopher Loder , a Pfizer spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “Terms
of the agreement are confidential.”  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Mylan Inc. also
have reached settlements with Pfizer to sell generic forms of
Lipitor, known chemically as atorvastatin.  Ranbaxy Plans  Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY) , the first company to seek
regulatory approval for its version, had planned to enter the
market on Nov. 30 -- with Teva, Mylan and other generic makers
beginning sales six months later as part of its deal with
Pfizer. A U.S. Food and Drug Administration investigation into
quality standards at two Ranbaxy plans and a federal probe of
its testing practices have delayed approval.  Analysts including Edward J. Kelly of Credit Suisse AG have
said that Ranbaxy may have to sell its rights to be the only
approved generic on the market if it can’t pass regulatory
muster by November.  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  has a separate agreement with
Pfizer that would let it sell Lipitor without the brand label as
a so-called authorized generic beginning Nov. 30. The Watson-
sold drug doesn’t require FDA approval and wouldn’t be affected
by the Ranbaxy deal.  The case is Pfizer v. Dr. Reddy’s, 1:09-cv-00943, U.S.
District Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To see the patent, click: 5,969,156.  -- With assistance from Adi Narayan in Mumbai, Susan Decker in
 Washington  and Catherine Larkin in Indianapolis. Editors:
 Charles Carter , Glenn Holdcraft  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 