-- 
PGNiG, Polish Gas Distributor, Posts Unexpected Loss as Import Costs Rise

-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 
2011-08-31T07:14:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/pgnig-polish-gas-distributor-posts-347-6-million-profit-below-estimate.html
Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i
Gazownictwo SA (PGN) ,  Poland ’s dominant gas company, said its second-
quarter net loss widened, missing estimates of a profit, as a
one-time financial gain and shale gas exploration failed to
offset higher import costs.  The company known as PGNiG said the loss widened to 20
million zloty ($6.95 million) from 2 million zloty a year
earlier. That missed the mean estimate of four analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg, which called for a profit of 143.8 million zloty.  The Warsaw-based former monopoly said the cost of selling
gas increased 12 percent from a year earlier, mainly because of
higher import costs, which are based on oil prices and the
zloty-dollar  exchange rate . PGNiG failed to win regulators’
approval to increase prices in the second quarter, with rates
rising only as of July 15.  The shares fell 3.8 percent to 4.02 zloty at 9:11 a.m. in
Warsaw, underperforming the benchmark WIG20 Index, which rose
0.4 percent.  The company imports about two-thirds of its annual 14.5
billion cubic meters of gas from  Russia , buying the fuel at a
price set in dollars based on a nine-month average of oil-
related product prices, and selling it at a rate set in zloty by
the regulator.  PGNiG said the operating loss from its gas sales business
widened 20 percent to 123.7 million zloty. The loss at the
distribution units more than doubled to 47.3 million zloty on
lower volumes, while operating profit, or earnings before
interest and taxes, in the exploration and production business
fell 27 percent to 71.7 million zloty.  Exploration Services  Exploration and production earnings were hurt by a 76
million-zloty writedown for a Norwegian field, and would
otherwise have increased by about 50 percent on higher  oil
prices  and rising demand for PGNiG’s exploration services.  Subsidiaries are working on some of the 97 licenses that
Poland’s government sold to companies including Exxon Mobil
Corp., Chevron Corp. and Talisman Energy Inc. to explore the
possibility of extracting the estimated 5.2 trillion cubic
meters of gas in shale rock formation that Poland may hold,
according to the Energy Information Administration.  The license holders may drill as many as 233 wells by 2017,
the  Environment Ministry  said. Each will cost from 40 million
zloty to 50 million zloty, according to Deputy Treasury Minister
Mikolaj Budzanowski.  Revenue at PGNiG’s exploration and geophysical services
units increased by 21 percent and 51 percent respectively in the
quarter.  PGNiG’s net result was boosted by a 70 million-zloty profit
on the sale of its stake in fertilizer producer Azoty Tarnow in
April.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maciej Martewicz at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net  