-- 
Philippine GDP Grows Less Than Estimated as Slowing Demand Curbs Exports

-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   C e c i l i a   Y a p
-- 
2011-08-31T08:51:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/philippine-economy-expanded-slower-than-estimated-3-4-in-second-quarter.html
Philippine growth slowed for a
fourth straight quarter after faltering global demand curbed
exports and investment eased, adding to signs  Asia ’s expansion
is weakening and complicating efforts to combat inflation.  Gross domestic product increased 3.4 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier, compared with a revised 4.6 percent
gain in the three months through March, the National Statistical
Coordination Board said in Manila today. The median estimate of
seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for expansion to
ease to 4.1 percent.  Slowing expansion from  Taiwan  to  India  and  Malaysia  has
reduced the scope for Asia’s policy makers to raise interest
rates, as they balance the need to battle inflation against
protecting their economies from the European debt crisis and a
weakening U.S. recovery. President Benigno Aquino, who has
pledged to boost growth to as much as 8 percent annually, is in
 China  this week to boost trade and investment.  “There is a need to implement policies to help growth
recover, which includes attracting more investments, keeping
interest rates low,” said Antonio Espedido, treasurer at China
Banking Corp. in Manila. “It’s a tough juggling act but it
seems growth is the bigger problem now, not inflation.”  Policy ‘Flexibility’  The Philippine central bank has “more flexibility” to
maintain its benchmark overnight borrowing rate as inflation is
slowing, Economic Planning Secretary Cayetano Paderanga said in
Manila today. Easing expansion “could indeed moderate domestic
demand and inflation,” Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas Deputy
Governor Diwa Guinigundo said in a mobile-phone text message,
adding that the lower economic momentum will be an “important
consideration” in the next monetary policy meeting on Sept. 8.  The Philippine peso has fallen against the dollar this
month, declining along with most Asian currencies outside  Japan 
on signs economies are cooling in the region. The currency rose
0.2 percent today, according to Tullett Prebon Plc, as Paderanga
said a 5 percent growth rate this year is “achievable” and the
government is going to aim for faster expansion.  Benchmark five-year bond yields due April 2016 fell for a
sixth day today, according to Philippine Dealing & Exchange Corp.
The Philippine Stock Exchange Index gained 1 percent, ending
three days of losses on its first trading day after holidays
this week.  Exports Tumble  Bangko Sentral has paused after increasing the benchmark
 interest rate  twice earlier this year to 4.5 percent. Instead,
on July 28 it ordered lenders to set aside more money as
reserves for the second time this year.  Thailand’s growth unexpectedly slowed last quarter, a
report showed this month, as the nation joined China,  South
Korea ,  Hong Kong , Malaysia,  Singapore  and Taiwan in reporting
the slowest expansions since 2009. India’s GDP rose 7.7 percent
in the three months ended June 30 from a year earlier, easing
from a 7.8 percent climb in the previous quarter, a report
showed yesterday.  Philippine exports tumbled the most since September 2009 in
June, with shipments abroad dropping 9.4 percent from a year
earlier. Overseas sales account for about 30 percent of the $200
billion economy.  Inflation in the  Philippines  accelerated to a 26-month high
of 5.2 percent in June before easing in July. Rising prices are
crimping profits at companies including Jollibee Foods Corp.,
the nation’s largest restaurant operator, and food company RFM
Corp., which said last month it may miss its earnings target
this year.  Accelerating Projects  Aquino plans to build more than 700 billion pesos ($17
billion) of roads, airports, and schools to lift incomes in a
nation where the  World Bank  estimates about one out of four
people live on less than $1.25 a day.  The government may implement ahead of schedule projects
planned for 2012 to help the economy recover, Budget Secretary
Butch Abad said in an e-mailed statement today.  “We intend to further increase spending not only by
accelerating existing projects but also by spending on
additional projects allowed by the available fiscal space
brought about by significant savings we have attained,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in  Manila  at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Cecilia Yap at   cyap19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  