-- 
Piraeus Bank First-Half Loss 820 Million Euros on Writedown

-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T12:04:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/piraeus-bank-first-half-loss-820-million-euro-on-writedown-1-.html
Piraeus Bank SA (TPEIR) , Greece’s fourth-
largest lender, reported a first-half loss after writing down
its holdings of Greek  government bonds .  The net loss was 820 million euros ($1.18 billion),
compared with a profit of 10 million euros a year earlier,
according to an e-mailed statement from the Athens-based bank
today. Piraeus wrote down the value of its bonds by 1 billion
euros, according to the statement.  “The anticipated implementation of July’s European Union
resolutions should lead to more sustainable public debt and
stabilization of Greece’s fiscal balances,” Chairman Michalis Sallas said in the statement.  Greece’s EU partners on July 21 agreed on a 159 billion-
euro bailout for the country, its second in little more than a
year, as high borrowing costs left it frozen out of
international bond markets. The July package involves private
creditors participating in the bailout by rolling over or
exchanging their holdings of Greek government debt.  Piraeus shares dropped 13.2 percent to 0.66 euros at 2:25
p.m. in  Athens , the biggest single-day drop since January 1994.  The bank wrote down the book value of 6.8 billion euros of
bonds eligible for inclusion in the debt swap that will help to
fund Greece until 2013. Piraeus also made provisions for 371
million euros of bad loans as the country’s economy shrank after
wage and pension cuts implemented in exchange for the first, 110
billion-euro, bailout in May last year.  Provision Costs  Stripping out the bond writedowns and provision expenses,
pretax profit was 372 million euros, Piraeus said.  Piraeus used the  Bank of Greece ’s Emergency Liquidity
Assistance program in the third quarter, Chief Financial Officer
George Poulopoulos said in a telephone interview today. Current
dependence on ELA and European Central Bank liquidity combined
is about the same as the level of ECB dependence at the end of
the first half, he added. The lender’s funding from the ECB at
the end of June was 18.6 billion euros.  The rate of interest for ELA funding is 3.5 percent,
compared with 1.5 percent from the ECB, the bank’s management
said in a conference call with analysts.  Deposits fell 11 percent to 26.4 billion euros in the first
half from the year-earlier period, the bank reported. Deposits
in the national banking system slumped by 21.4 billion euros, or
10 percent, since December 2010, according to the Bank of
 Greece , prompting Greek banks shut out of money markets to
borrow more from the central bank.  Piraeus Bank said it had a core Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.2
percent at the end of the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 