-- 
Polish GDP Composition Signals ‘Serious Risks,’ Citigroup Says

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-08-31T12:56:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/polish-gdp-composition-signals-serious-risks-citigroup-says.html
The breakdown of  Poland ’s second-
quarter gross domestic product suggests ‘serious risks” to
economic growth in the coming quarters, Citigroup Inc. said.  The economy will expand 3.5 percent in the third quarter,
compared with a better-than-expected 4.3 percent rise in the
previous three months, Warsaw-based Citi economists Piotr Kalisz
and Cezary Chrapek wrote in an e-mailed note today. Growth will
slow to 2.9 percent next year, they said.  “We are not impressed by the data because the positive
surprise came almost entirely from a dynamic increase in
inventories,” Kalisz and Chrapek wrote. “We believe the pace
of inventory buildup is not sustainable and we expect firms to
limit output and start reducing inventories in the coming
months.”  Eastern Europe’s export-led recovery from its worst slump
since the end of communism two decades ago is in peril as a
deepening debt crisis in the euro area and a cut in the U.S.
credit-rating intensify threats to the global economy. European
Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn 
indicated this week that the EU may cut its forecast 2011 growth
from 1.6 percent on concerns that financial turbulence could
spill into the broader economy.  Consumer Spending   Consumer spending is also bound to slow further from its
3.5 percent pace in the second quarter as the appreciation of
the Swiss franc against the zloty is pushing up repayment costs
on loans taken out in the Alpine currency, according to Kalisz
and Chrapek. Meanwhile, declining stock markets are hurting
confidence, they said.  Government spending  won’t spur growth as the government
seeks to reduce the  budget deficit  to 6 percent of GDP this year
from 7.9 percent in 2010, the Citi economists wrote. Public
spending shrank 1.3 percent in the previous quarter.  The pace of fixed-investment growth will also fade as
growth prospects in the euro region are weakening, Citi said.
Growth in the euro area, which buys 55 percent of Polish
exports, slowed to 0.2 percent from the previous quarter in the
April-June period, the worst performance since the region’s 2009
recession.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  