-- 
Polish Stocks Climb for Third Day as Pekao, KGHM, Bogdanka Gain

-- B y   P a w e l   K o z l o w s k i
-- 
2011-08-31T16:18:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/polish-stocks-climb-for-third-day-as-pekao-kghm-bogdanka-gain.html
Polish stocks rose for a third day,
trimming the benchmark index’s biggest monthly drop since 2009,
on speculation the U.S. will stimulate the world’s biggest
economy and as analysts recommended buying  Bank Pekao SA. (PEO)   The WIG20 Index gained 2.5 percent to 2,450.95. The gauge
slumped 10 percent this month, the steepest retreat since
February 2009, as European and U.S. economic reports trailed
forecasts, fueling concern the global recovery is faltering.  Some Federal Reserve officials favored a “more substantial
move” beyond a pledge to hold rates at record lows, according
to minutes of the latest meeting published yesterday. Credit
Suisse Group AG raised its recommendation for Pekao,  Poland ’s
second-largest lender, and  Getin Holding SA (GTN) , a financial-
services company, to “outperform” from “neutral.”  “While we see certain risks tailing up, we think they are
more than priced in at current valuations,”  Marta Jezewska- Wasilewska, a Warsaw-based analyst at Credit Suisse, wrote in a
report today.  Pekao jumped 5 percent to 147.9 zloty and Getin, controlled
by Polish billionaire Leszek Czarnecki, rose 6.8 percent to 9.79
zloty, its fifth day of gains. The WIG Banking Index trades at
13.7 times reported earnings, compared with an average of 14.5
times over the past four years.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , Poland’s sole copper producer, added
2.9 percent to 174.8 zloty, the highest close since Aug. 3, as
the price of the metal advanced.  Lubelski Wegiel Bogdanka SA (LWB) , the country’s second-largest
publicly traded coal producer, soared 1.4 percent to 105.3
zloty, rising for a third day. The company’s results, showing
first-half net income at 61.9 million zloty ($22 million), are
“supportive” and a “small positive surprise,”  Pawel Puchalski , a Warsaw-based analyst at Bank Zachodni WBK SA wrote
in a note.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pawel Kozlowski in Warsaw 
 pkozlowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  