-- 
Portugal Increases Capital-Gains, Company Taxes to Meet Deficit Targets

-- B y   A n a b e l a   R e i s
-- 
2011-08-31T17:43:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/portugal-increases-capital-gains-company-taxes-to-meet-deficit-targets.html
Portugal will raise  capital gains 
taxes and increase levies on corporate profit and high earners
to reach the deficit-reduction goals in its 78 billion-euro
($112 billion) bailout as it braces for two years of economic
contraction.  The government will impose a tax surcharge of 3 percent on
companies for yearly profit exceeding 1.5 million euros and a
bonus tax of 2.5 percent on the highest earners, raising almost
100 million euros annually, Finance Minister Vitor Gaspar said
today in Lisbon as he presented the government’s four-year
budget plan. It will also raise the levy on capital gains by 1
percentage point to 21 percent.  The moves will help trim the  budget deficit  from 5.9
percent of gross domestic product this year to the European
Union ceiling of 3 percent in 2013, and 0.5 percent in 2015,
Gaspar said. The government will reduce its deficit even as the
economy is forecast to contract 2.2 percent this year and 1.8
percent next year, before expanding 1.2 percent in 2013, he
said.  “In five years, the Portuguese economy will have almost
eliminated its imbalances,” Gaspar said. “From 2013, the
economy will start growing, creating jobs, and the  unemployment
rate  will start its downward trajectory.”  Four-Year Plan  With debt and borrowing costs surging, Portugal this year
followed Greece and Ireland in seeking an international bailout.
The aid package calls for spending reductions for 2012 and 2013
amounting to 3.5 percent of GDP. Portugal also agreed to present
by today a four-year budget plan, including economic and deficit
forecasts and estimated spending costs.  The country plans two euros of spending cuts for every euro
of revenue gains to cut its deficit. The government had already
pledged to freeze public workers’ salaries through 2013 and cut
pensions of more than 1,500 euros a month, while  tax deductions 
will be limited and the value-added tax rates of some goods and
services will be raised.  Portugal  also agreed to reduce workers’
severance payments, cut employers’ social-security
contributions, phase out rent control, merge some of its
municipalities and close some state institutes.  Faster Job Cuts  The central government aims to reduce the number of
employees by 2 percent a year from 2012 to 2014, speeding up the
initial forecast of a 1 percent reduction, Gaspar said today.  A team of European Union and International Monetary Fund
inspectors said Aug. 12 that Portugal was “on track” to meet
this year’s deficit goal.  The new budget plan predicts public debt of 100.8 percent
of GDP this year, rising to a peak of 106.8 percent in 2013,
before starting to decline.  Portugal’s economy emerged from a recession in the second
quarter as the austerity measures the government implemented in
return for the rescue didn’t have as deep an impact on growth as
economists had forecast. GDP was unchanged in the second quarter
from the first, when it fell 0.6 percent. GDP dropped 0.9
percent from a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anabela Reis in Lisbon at 
 areis1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  