-- 
Prime Grill’s Rib Steaks Are Kosher; $82, Not So: Ryan Sutton

-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/prime-grill-s-82-steak-is-kosher-mediocre-le-marais-rocks-ryan-sutton.html
The Prime Grill and Le Marais are
two New York steakhouses that don’t serve New York strips.  The Midtown spots don’t sell porterhouses either. Nor is
there thick-cut bacon, as at Wolfgang’s, nor oyster trays
beloved of Ma Peche customers. There are no Sparks-style five-
pound lobsters, no shrimp cocktail a la Minetta Tavern, no Peter
Luger schlag.  On the other hand, you won’t have fought for a Friday night
reservation. Both are closed. Such is life at Prime Grill,
opened by a Syrian Jewish butcher in 2000, and the French Le
Marais, around since the early 1990s.  They’re glatt kosher, meaning the meats are ritually and
humanely slaughtered and the meals are dairy-free, as ensured by
“mashgiachs” (supervisors) who keep away all things “traif” or
banned. So no pig, shellfish or cuts of beef from behind Elsie’s
13th rib.  These selling points explain why Prime Grill’s 196-seats
are frequented by yarmulke-clad diners who’ll easily pay over
$150 each. Patrons come for the dietary accommodations and the
Park Avenue investment banker scene -- not, I’m certain, for the
quality of the food.  The Prime Grill may be unimpeachable by religious
standards, but for a great steak? Pray harder.  Prime Mistakes  Take the tenderloin, not typically a kosher cut because it
contains the banned sciatic nerve. Prime’s filet comes from a
part of the rib attached to the sirloin. But what you actually
get is an overcooked, $55 entree that tastes like airline food
and has the mouth feel of shoe leather.  Barbecued short ribs, at $48, are ruined by a saccharine
sauce no better than a $2 bottle of KC Masterpiece. Salmon
sashimi is cold and mushy, lacking the fish’s unctuousness.
Smoked salmon boasts enough sodium to conduct electricity. Duck
crackling salad with champagne vinaigrette is cloying and shows
no sign of interaction with either vinegar or cracklings.  “Foie gras” ($25), a wet paste of chicken liver mousse,
pistachios and truffles, has neither the ethereal taste of real
foie gras nor the homey flavor of chopped liver. Flavor is also
notably absent from coconut cake. Wines by the glass include
flat sparklers and alcohol-heavy reds with no acid balance.  TV Dinners  Sit outside, not because al fresco dining is better with
passing car fumes and din of jackhammers, but because the
interior’s flat screen TVs and drab browns make Prime feel more
like a TGI Thursdays that charges $54 for its veal chop.  Service  can be lousy. Your first course won’t be cleared
until your steaks have left the kitchen, so there is zero break
between starters and mains.  Broiled steaks, often prime-graded and dry-aged up to 60-
days, have as much beefy flavor as the meats at Del Frisco’s,
which is to say not a whole lot. Don’t expect much more from the
$46 Texas rib eye or $82 New York rib.  The best cut is the $65 prime rib flanked with the luscious
deckle. It’s only served on Wednesdays. Too bad. Creamless
spinach reeks of canned-quality greens.  A sure-fire meal is possible: Start with a tangy beef
tartare, then luscious veal sweetbreads paired with soft beef
tongue, a flavor-packed duo of Lower East Side offal. Add lamb
sausage and balance the salty, spicy fare with an ice cold beer.
Finish with faux creme brulee in which soy substitutes for egg
and is nearly a dead ringer for the original. Total cost: $84
(plus beer), sufficing as a light meal for two.  Le Marais  Le Marais, in the Theater District, serves beefy French
bistro fare that actually tastes like French bistro fare.  Order the charcuterie board. Pig is not missed. Meaty duck
rilettes are mouth-watering. Merguez sausage -- it’s lamb --
boasts heady oils. Beef jerky, with just a gentle chew, makes an
American cameo on the Gallic, $19 platter. Wash down with a $12
flute of fizzy Herzog blanc de blancs.  Move onto silky beef tartare, which might arrive five
minutes after the accompanying fries hit the table; Le Marais’s
service isn’t much better than Prime’s. The upside is that the
steaks are often excellent.  The right call is the cote de boeuf. A single portion costs
$45 and stands over an inch thick (a double is $76). The waiter
doesn’t ask for a temperature; he sends it out medium rare. The
rib puts up about as much resistance as a filet and has an
entry-level dry-aged tang. Refined carnivores might also choose
the rib cap ($36), a cut that’s shockingly marbled but rarely
fatty -- the everyday answer to Wagyu.  Dip your tournedos into the rich, margarine-based
bearnaise; the faux-filets here, cut from the ribeye, are softer
than Prime’s. Dunk your aggressively seasoned hanger into a
super concentrated shallot sauce; the onion flavor brings a
pleasant respite from the salts. The only caveat is that Le
Marais relies on a grill that occasionally imparts an unpleasant
gasoline sting.  Finish with sour lemon tart. Le Marais is no Balthazar, but
it’s pretty darned good.
Ratings: Prime Grill: *  Le Marais: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Around $150 per person at The Prime Grill; $100 at
Le Marais.  Sound Level: 70-75 decibels at Prime; louder at Le Marais.  Date Place: For some.  Inside Tip: Manhattans lack proper vermouth at both venues.  Special feature: Excellent Chilean sea bass at Prime.  Will I be back? To Le Marais  The Prime Grill is at 60 E 49th St. Information: +1-212-
692-9292  http://theprimegrill.primehospitalityny.com .  Le Marais is at 150 W. 46th St. Information: +1-212-869-
0900;  http://www.lemarais.net .  
Sound-Level Chart (in decibels):  51 to 55: Quiet enough to converse sotto voce. 56 to 60: Speak
up, please. 61 to 65: Lean in if you want to hear your date. 66
to 70: You’re reading one another’s lips. 71 to 75: Heads turn
because you’re yelling. 76 to 85: Ear-splitting din.  (Ryan Sutton writes about New York City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 