-- 
Rand Rises to Three-Week High as U.S. Fed Officials Debate Stimulus Moves

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-31T15:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/rand-rises-to-three-week-high-as-u-s-fed-officials-debate-stimulus-moves.html
The rand rose to the strongest in
more than three weeks against the dollar on speculation the U.S.
Federal Reserve will stimulate growth in the world’s largest
economy. Stocks advanced while bonds declined.  The rand gained as much as 1.3 percent to 6.9936 per
dollar, the strongest since Aug. 8.  South Africa ’s currency
before trading at 6.9981 by 5:10 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring
its decline this month to 4.4 percent, the most since January,
when it depreciated 8.3 percent.  Some Federal Reserve policy makers favored a “more
substantial move” beyond an Aug. 9 pledge to hold rates at
record lows for the next two years, minutes of a closed-door
meeting published yesterday in  Washington  showed. Factory orders
in the U.S. grew faster than economists forecast last month,
data showed today, boosting appetite for riskier assets.  “The market is trading on the assumption that the Fed is
going to announce additional stimulus,” Michael Grobler, a Cape
Town-based analyst at Afrifocus Securities, said by phone.
“That would be a strong support for more risky assets.”  South Africa’s benchmark stock index rose 1.9 percent to
the highest since Aug. 2. Emerging-market stocks advanced for a
fourth day, driving the benchmark index to a two-week high,
while the Standard & Poor’s GSCI index of raw materials rallied
for a fifth day.  The government’s 15-year bond declined, snapping four days
of gains, on expectations a widening budget shortfall will lead
to more  government borrowing . The 10.5 percent notes due 2026
slumped 1.27 rand to 121.10 rand, driving the yield up 13 basis
points, or 0.13 percentage points to 8.07 percent.  Budget Deficit  South Africa posted a budget deficit of 44.1 billion rand
($6.3 billion) in July, compared with a surplus of 12.6 billion
rand in June, as  tax revenue  fell while expenditure rose. The
annual shortfall after borrowing may be about 15 billion rand,
according to research by Investec Ltd.  The government may have to revise its projection of a
budget shortfall of 5 percent of gross domestic product, said
Victor Mphaphuli, who helps oversee about 165 billion rand of
fixed-income investments at Stanlib Asset Management.  “You could call into question the government’s ability to
continue with its current budget-deficit projections,”
Mphaphuli said by phone from Johannesburg. “That would mean
more borrowing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  