-- 
Stocks Advance, Erasing Dow Average’s 2011 Loss; Treasuries, AT&T Retreat

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-31T20:34:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/treasuries-yen-advance-on-signs-global-economy-is-slowing-oil-declines.html
Stocks rose, giving the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index its best eight-day gain since 2009, as
speculation the economy will keep expanding overshadowed a drop
in  AT&T Inc. (T)  following a government antitrust lawsuit.
Treasuries fell, and copper gained.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.5 percent at 4 p.m.
in New York, extending its increase since Aug. 19 to 8.5
percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  climbed to 11,613.53,
erasing a year-to-date loss that grew to 7.4 percent three weeks
ago. Yields on 10-year notes rose five basis points to 2.23
percent as Treasuries pared the biggest monthly gain since 2008.
Copper futures added 1.5 percent. The franc appreciated against
all 16 major peers as the  Swiss National Bank  refrained from
curbing its advance.  Stocks gained as the U.S. government reported growth in
factory orders that exceeded projections, while a private report
showed American business activity topped forecasts. European and
Asian shares followed yesterday’s gain in the  S&P 500  after some
Federal Reserve officials favored a “more substantial move” to
stimulate growth, according to the minutes of the latest policy
meeting released yesterday.  “The economy is not falling off a cliff and at the same
time policy makers are aware that growth is slow and they are
prepared to do something to accelerate it,”  Peter Jankovskis ,
who helps manage about $2.6 billion at Oakbrook Investments in
Lisle,  Illinois , said in a telephone interview. “Much of the
selling that we’ve experienced was overdone and left the market
poised for a rally when sentiment began to change.”  AT&T Lawsuit  The S&P 500 pared its advance after the U.S. government
filed a lawsuit to block AT&T’s $39 billion purchase of T-Mobile
USA Inc., a deal that would join the nation’s second- and
fourth-largest wireless-network operators. AT&T retreated 3.9
percent, the most since Aug. 8. Sprint Nextel Corp., the third-
largest carrier, jumped 5.9 percent.  Equities also slipped from their highs of the day after
economist  Nouriel Roubini  said the odds of a recession next year
are 60 percent.  “We have reached stall speed in the economy, not just the
U.S. but also in the  euro zone , the U.K., the most advanced
economies,” Nouriel Roubini, chairman of Roubini Global
Economics LLC, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness with Margaret Brennan” today. “The market is
going to fizzle out when the real economy is going to go and
tank. We’re entering a recession based on my numbers.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 nations
lost 7.6 percent in August, its worst month since May 2010. The
S&P 500 retreated 5.7 percent, the most since the same month,
when a 20-minute free-fall erased $862 billion from U.S.
equities.  Debt’s Appeal  Concern growth will slow boosted demand in August for the
relative safety of government debt, even after S&P cut the U.S.
credit rating on Aug. 5.  U.S. government debt  returned about 3
percent in August, the biggest monthly gain since December 2008,
based on Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  “Most people will be glad to say goodbye to this month,”
 Russ Koesterich , the San Francisco-based global chief investment
strategist for the IShares unit of BlackRock Inc., told Susan Li
on Bloomberg Television’s “First Up.” “Investors are well
aware that it’s going to be a slow, stubborn recovery. We’re
hoping we remain in positive growth mode. The good news is that
a lot of the bad news is already reflected in the price.”  Orders placed with U.S. factories rose in July by the most
in four months, boosted by demand for motor vehicles and
aircraft. The 2.4 percent increase was more than the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg News survey, Commerce
Department figures showed. Vehicle orders climbed last month by
the most since January 2003.  Better Than Estimated  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc.’s business
barometer fell to 56.5 this month, reaching the lowest reading
since November 2009 while topping the median economist forecast
of 53.3. A level of 50 is the dividing line between expansion
and contraction.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index advanced for a third day, paring
this month’s decline to 10 percent, the most since October 2008.  European  government bonds  dropped, with the yield on two-
year German notes rising six basis points to 0.71 percent and
the yield on French securities increasing eight basis points to
1.06 percent.  The cost of insuring government debt fell to the lowest in
two weeks as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet ratified
an expansion of the European Financial Stability Facility to
help tackle the euro-area debt crisis. The Markit iTraxx SovX
Western Europe Index of credit-default swaps linked to 15
governments dropped eight basis points to a midprice of 292.  The Swiss franc appreciated more than 1.7 percent against
the euro and dollar, snapping three days of declines, as the
central bank refrained from announcing any new steps to curb its
gains, after intervening or referring to the currency’s strength
on each of the first three Wednesdays this month. The Dollar
Index was little changed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in  New York  at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  