-- 
Treasuries Post Biggest Monthly Gain Since December 2008 on Safety Bid

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 
2011-08-31T21:36:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/treasuries-head-for-biggest-monthly-gain-since-2008-after-u-s-downgrade.html
Treasuries posted the biggest
monthly gain since December 2008 as investors ignored the first-
ever rating downgrade of the U.S. and sought a refuge in the
safest securities amid signs of slowing global growth.  U.S. 10-year notes fell today after a private report showed
employers added jobs in August, bolstering optimism the recovery
may not lose momentum. Minutes of the  Federal Reserve ’s Aug. 9
meeting released yesterday showed policy makers will debate
stimulus options at its September gathering.  “The world continues to want safety, given the numerous
uncertainties at home and abroad, with the economy weakening and
the Fed on hold even longer,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-
rate strategist in  New York  at Cantor Fitzgerald LP, one of the
20 primary dealers that trade with the central bank. “The
economic data and the  Federal Open Market Committee  are what to
watch, as well as  Europe , to give us some direction.”  The yield on the 10-year note rose five basis points to
2.23 percent at 5:19 p.m. in New York, according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices. The 2.125 percent securities maturing in
August 2021 fell 13/32, or $4.06 per $1,000 face amount, to 99
3/32.  The 10-year note yield fell 52 basis points this month, the
most since a 71 basis point drop in December 2008. New York-
based  Standard & Poor’s  stripped the U.S. of its top rank on
Aug. 5, saying Washington politics were making the country less
creditworthy. The yield slid on Aug. 18 to a record low 1.97
percent.  The S&P 500 rose 0.5 percent and had surged 8.5 percent
since Aug. 19.  ‘Marginally Positive’  “With slightly better data and equities rising, Treasuries
don’t have a big reason to rally,” said Christian Cooper, head
of U.S. dollar-derivatives trading at primary dealer Jefferies &
Co. “We had marginally positive data, which removes some of the
uncertainty around payrolls. There is a lot of index matching
and position squaring into month end driving the market.”  Some investors purchased longer-term debt to increase the
duration of their portfolios to match benchmarks at the end of
the month, such as the Barclays U.S. Treasury Index. Duration
measures how sensitive a bond’s price is to changes in yield.  The Barclays index will extend by 0.13 year at the end of
August, compared with a 12-month average of 0.09 year, according
to the firm.  Treasury Returns  Government bonds  have returned 3.05 percent in August, the
most since the depths of the financial crisis in December 2008,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  U.S.
government debt  has returned 7.35 percent this year, compared
with a 1.77 percent drop in the  S&P 500 .  The monthly rally comes as bond investors have reduced
their expectations for inflation as break-even rates on Treasury
Inflation-Protected Securities, or TIPS, are hovering near the
lowest since October 2010. The break-even inflation rate,
calculated from yield differences on 10-year Treasury notes and
inflation-indexed U.S. government bonds of similar maturity, has
fallen to 2.02 percent from a high this year of 2.67 percent
reached on April 11.  Volatility in Treasuries trading has picked up. Merrill
Lynch & Co.’s MOVE index, which measure price swings in
Treasuries based on prices of over-the-counter options maturing
in two to 30 years, has averaged 99 basis points this month,
reaching as much as 118, compared with 90 this year.  Treasuries rallied yesterday as minutes of the Fed’s most
recent meeting indicated that a few policy makers favored more
aggressive action to stimulate the economy and cut unemployment.  September Meeting  The report bolstered bets policy makers will consider
further steps to bolster the economy when they convene on Sept.
20 for a two-day meeting that was originally scheduled to last a
day.  “It not going to be long before people begin to count down
days until the next Fed meeting, wondering if we do get more
from the Fed,” said  Suvrat Prakash , an interest-rate strategist
in New York at BNP Paribas SA, a primary dealer.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  joined  Charles Plosser 
of Philadelphia and  Narayana Kocherlakota  from  Minneapolis  as
part of the three regional bank presidents to dissent at the
Fed’s meeting this month, posing the most opposition on the FOMC
in almost 19 years. All three preferred to maintain a commitment
to keep rates low for an unspecified “extended period.”  ‘Additional Accommodation’  At the same time “a few members felt that recent economic
developments justified a more substantial move at this meeting,
but they were willing to accept the stronger forward guidance as
a step in the direction of additional accommodation,” according
to the minutes.  “The Fed made a historic policy move by committing to
leave the fed funds Rate near zero for ‘at least’ two years, and
the doves wanted more,” said  John Briggs , a U.S. government
bond strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , a primary dealer. “It’s no wonder the markets will
be eagerly awaiting the September two day meeting, using any
data between now and then to increase or reduce the odds of
stimulus being announced.”  Companies in the U.S. added 91,000 workers to payrolls in
August, according to data from ADP Employer Services. The median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News called for an
advance of 100,000.  The Labor Department report is forecast to show the U.S.
added 70,000 jobs, according to 80 economists in a separate
survey, compared with 117,000 the previous month.  The
 unemployment rate  is forecast to remain at 9.1 percent from the
previous month.  ‘Boon to Treasuries’  “We’ve had a softening of economic data this month that,
along with increasing expectations for some action from the Fed,
has been a boon to Treasuries,” said  Michael Cloherty , head of
U.S. rates strategy for fixed income and currencies at the
primary dealer Royal Bank of Canada in New York. “You will need
to see more from the Fed and continued stagnancy in the economy
to justify the rally going forward.”  During the previous six reports, ADP’s initial figure was
closest to the Labor Department’s first estimate of private
payrolls in February, when it understated the gain in jobs by
5,000. The estimate was least accurate in June, when it
overestimated the increase in employment by 100,000.  Orders placed with U.S. factories rose in July by the most
in four months, boosted by demand for motor vehicles and
aircraft that more than made up for a decrease in business
equipment, Commerce Department figures showed today in
 Washington .  “Factory order increased more than anticipated and
equities are slightly better, which is slightly bearish for
Treasuries,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at
CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut. “Given the
macroeconomic landscape 10 year yields at 2.25 are not outside
of the realm of expectations as the market gets used to this
lower yield range.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  