-- 
That 200% Debt Is Reason for Economic Revolution: William Pesek

-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 
2011-08-31T00:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/rock-n-roll-line-rings-true-in-deflation-nation-william-pesek.html
Japan  needs an Arab Spring.  If you’d told me 10 years ago, when I moved to Tokyo, that
today I’d be writing about an eighth leader, I never would’ve
believed it. Yet here we are, analyzing and philosophizing about
whether Yoshihiko Noda will last longer than the last five.  In April 2001,  Junichiro Koizumi  grabbed the job from the
hapless Yoshiro Mori. Koizumi stuck around for an unthinkably
long five years. He talked big about economic reforms, promised
even bigger and managed to get a few things done. Then Koizumi
turned the keys over to the forgettable Shinzo Abe, who then
passed them to Yasuo Fukuda and Taro Aso.  Political lightning struck in August 2009. Voters tossed
out the  Liberal Democratic Party  that had been in power for
roughly 54 years. The  Democratic Party  of Japan might have fared
better if it picked someone other than political lightweight
 Yukio Hatoyama  as prime minister. Next came  Naoto Kan , who last
week resigned to make room for yet another leader.  Analysts and pundits are busy criticizing politicians in
Tokyo for going with the safe choice -- Noda -- when Japan is
navigating a world economy that is anything but. Yet let’s put
blame where it belongs: Japan’s 127 million people.  There’s some truth in the old saw that people generally get
the leaders they deserve. In Japan’s case, voters need to begin
demanding more of leaders and speaking out forcefully for
change. Instead, they offer nothing more than numbing silence.  Rallying Voters  I just spent several days in  India  observing tens of
thousands of aggrieved voters rallying behind a 74-year-old
anti-corruption activist. Anna Hazare isn’t an extraordinarily
charismatic man. Just as a young Tunisian man setting himself on
fire precipitated protests that changed his nation forever,
Hazare’s hunger strike was the perfect gesture at the right
time.  Watching the crowds grow, I kept wondering why fed up
Japanese aren’t taking to the streets en masse. I’m not
advocating violence or aggression of any kind; just a giant
march or two to let politicians know that the status quo just
won’t do. Change will only come when politicians feel pressured.  There are a couple of obvious reasons that the protests
seen recently in India,  Malaysia ,  Thailand  and elsewhere aren’t
occurring in Japan. One is affluence. For all Japan’s challenges
-- recession, deflation, negligible wage growth -- households
have trillions of dollars of savings. And Japan’s jobless rate
is just 4.6 percent compared with 9.1 percent in the U.S.
Another is cultural. In a nation where decorum and etiquette are
obsessively observed, carrying banners and chanting in streets
holds little appeal.  Standing Still  Yet the world is speeding up as Japan stands immobile,
thanks to timid and ineffectual leaders. China leapfrogged over
Japan to become the second-largest economy and its 9.5 percent
growth is a sharp contrast to most developed nations. As
deflation eats away at iconic Japanese companies such as Sony
Corp., upstarts like Samsung Electronics Co. of  South Korea  are
booming.  Even before the record earthquake and tsunami in March and
the ensuing radiation crisis,  Tokyo  was dragging its feet. There
was little willingness to reduce Japan’s huge public debt -- the
world’s largest -- or figure out how to live without the
stimulus of zero  interest rates . There was no serious discussion
about making the economy more competitive, preparing for an
aging population, increasing the national birthrate or loosening
immigration rules.  In the days after the earthquake, it seemed Japan would be
forced to disengage from autopilot and steer the economy in
another direction. If the last five-plus months proved anything,
it’s the durability of Japan’s inertia. Politicians have been
preoccupied with getting rid of Kan. Mission accomplished. Now
what?  Tired Polices  In the devastated northeast, tens of thousands of people
remain in crowded shelters and temporary homes. They are fearful
of the fallout from radiation leaks in Fukushima and job
prospects in the long run. All they are getting from Tokyo is
petty politics as usual and economic policies that can only be
described as tired. Bureaucrats continue to build on their
little fiefdoms with little regard for the masses.  As finance minister, Noda was a one-trick policy maker. The
vast majority of his time and energy went into trying to weaken
the yen and safeguard exports. The yen is strong because
investors are souring on the dollar and euro. Noda thought he
could have his way with  currency markets , and still does. What
Noda should do is encourage companies to work around
disadvantageous exchange rates with increased innovation and
productivity gains.  Expect more of the same from Prime Minister Noda and lots
of talk about raising taxes to pay for earthquake
reconstruction. Noda should first divert money from wasteful
spending on public works projects, given the hit the economy
will take as tax bills rise. Yet Noda isn’t known for fresh
thinking or bold ideas. Remember, he was the safe choice. It’s
true what The Who long ago sang about new bosses and old bosses.  Only this is no time for safe, and the Japanese people are
growing antsy. It’s time to demand change in the streets of
Tokyo and  Osaka  the way average people did in Cairo and Tripoli.
It’s time the Japanese revolution began.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 