-- 
Tropical Storm Katia to Grow Into Hurricane Tonight, NHC Says

-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 
2011-08-31T22:12:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/tropical-storm-katia-expected-to-grow-into-hurricane-tonight-nhc-says.html
Tropical Storm Katia, moving west-
northwest across the Atlantic Ocean, is likely to strengthen
into a hurricane tonight, according to the U.S. National
Hurricane Center.  Katia, 1,285 miles (2,070 kilometers) east of the Leeward
Islands in the Caribbean, had maximum winds near 70 mph, up from
65 mph earlier today, the NHC said in  an advisory  at about 4:40
p.m. East Coast time. The storm, which will become a hurricane
when its winds reach 74 mph, is traveling at 20 mph on a path
that will take it to waters northeast of  Puerto Rico  on Sept. 4,
the Miami-based center said.  “Katia could become a major hurricane by the upcoming
weekend as it passes north of the Lesser Antilles,” said Brian
Edwards, a meteorologist for private forecaster AccuWeather in
 State College ,  Pennsylvania .  While the storm is forecast to turn north out to sea
eventually, a shift westward could bring it to land in eastern
 Canada , according to AccuWeather. Canada’s Atlantic region, a
major gasoline refiner for the U.S. Northeast, exported 469,704
cubic meters (2.96 million barrels) of the fuel in May,
according to Canada’s National Energy Board.  Katia is the 11th named storm of this  Atlantic hurricane
season , which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. The NHC says the
average hurricane season usually produces that many in total.  Caribbean System  A large weather system over the northwest Caribbean has a
30 percent chance of organizing into a tropical system in the
next two days, according to the hurricane center. There is
“some potential” for the system to develop over the central or
western Gulf of  Mexico  by week’s end, the center said in an
advisory shortly before 2 p.m. Eastern time.  BP Plc began removing more than 500 non-essential workers
from its Gulf platforms in the Southern Green Canyon area,
according to a message on the company’s hurricane hot line. The
London-based company said it is preparing for a potential shut-
in and full evacuation if necessary.  “If that storm develops, it will likely sit in the Gulf
for a couple days,” said Sean Miller, project manager for
Kinetic Analysis Corp., a  Silver Spring , Maryland-based firm
that predicts the effects of disasters. “Right now the models
are pretty divergent as to where it will make landfall, but it
will probably be somewhere in southern  Texas .”  The Gulf is home to 31 percent of U.S. oil output and 7
percent of natural gas production.  In the Pacific, a tropical depression northwest of Lazaro
Cardenas, Mexico, was “weakening rapidly,” according to a
hurricane center advisory issued before 5 p.m. East Coast time.
The government of Mexico discontinued a tropical storm watch for
an area from Zihuatanejo to Punta San Telmo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  