-- 
Russia Counts on Neutral Swiss Mediation to Win Georgia’s Blessing on WTO

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 
2011-08-31T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/russia-counts-on-swiss-to-win-georgia-s-blessing-on-wto.html
Russia  is counting on Switzerland’s
status as the world’s second-oldest neutral nation after  Sweden 
to help end its unprecedented 18-year wait to join the  World
Trade Organization .  Russia has been trying to join the trade arbiter since
1993, surpassing the 15 years  China  needed before becoming a
member. While the U.S. and the European Union back Russia, its
southern neighbor Georgia has used the possibility of blocking
Russian accession as a bargaining chip for five years. The two
countries fought a five-day war against each other in 2008.  Switzerland, neutral since 1815 and the place both Vladimir Lenin, father of the Russian revolution, and Soviet dissident
writer Alexander Solzhenitsyn found asylum, has mediated between
Russia and  Georgia  in their WTO negotiations at least four times
since March and a further meeting is set for Sept. 12 in Geneva,
according to Georgian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergi Kapanadz.
The country’s autonomy from blocs such as the European Union and
NATO give it added legitimacy in Russia’s eyes.  “Swiss neutrality and non-membership of the EU and NATO
are a tremendous advantage because there is no hidden agenda,”
said Daniel Warner, assistant director for international
relations at the Geneva Centre for the Democratic Control of
Armed Forces. “There’s nothing in this for them besides
prestige.”  Switzerland, which represents the U.S. in both Cuba and
 Iran , has also been involved in talks about Turkish-Armenian
relations and offers a neutral ground to host sensitive
meetings.  Gorbachev, Reagan  The former Russian and U.S. presidents  Mikhail Gorbachev 
and  Ronald Reagan  first met in Geneva, as did  Bill Clinton  and
 Syria ’s Hafez Assad. Switzerland has been the venue for peace
talks between rebel groups and governments -- such as Indonesia,
Spain and  Sri Lanka  -- and for discussions on a settlement for
the divided island of Cyprus.  Lars Knuchel, a spokesman for the Swiss Federal Department
of  Foreign Affairs  in Bern, declined to comment on Switzerland’s
role in the Russia-Georgia talks, which are led by Secretary of
State Peter Maurer and include Chef de Cabinet Heidi Grau, WTO
Ambassador Luzius Wasescha and Guenther Baechler, Switzerland’s
ambassador to Georgia. Russia’s Economy Ministry didn’t respond
to requests for comment.  To be sure, acting as a mediator also fosters ties with
Russia, the 11th-largest economy in the world in 2010. Russia
holds the G-20 presidency in 2013 and Swiss Economics Minister
Johann Schneider-Ammann has asked Russia to include  Switzerland 
in the deliberations of the world’s most powerful nations.  Skiing, Surgery  Switzerland also wants Russia to support its continued
membership of the International Monetary Fund executive board,
through which it represents the interests of the Central Asian
countries that were formerly part of the  Soviet Union .  Russia’s WTO accession may help clinch a free-trade
agreement being negotiated between the European Free Trade
Association, of which Switzerland is a member, and the customs
union of Russia, Belarus and  Kazakhstan .  Swiss-Russian ties extend into other areas as well:
Switzerland has been encouraging wealthy Russians who ski at
resorts from St. Moritz to Zermatt to return for medical
checkups or surgery. Edipresse SA, Switzerland’s second-largest
press group, began a Russian-language Internet news site three
years ago and Russia was the main guest of honor at the Fetes de
Geneve festival in 2008.  Economic Boost  With 2 percent of global gross domestic product, Russia is
the biggest economy and the only Group of 20 nation outside the
WTO, whose 153 members carry out 97 percent of world trade.
Joining the WTO may boost Russia’s $1.5 trillion economy by more
than 3 percent in the medium term, according to the  World Bank .  WTO candidates must negotiate their accession with
individual members of the trade arbiter. Georgia, which joined
in 2000, has threatened to use its veto to block Russia’s bid
unless a dispute over customs controls is resolved.  Russia and Georgia haven’t restored diplomatic relations
since their 2008 war over the breakaway Georgian regions of
Abkhazia and  South Ossetia . Russian accession to the WTO this
year remains doubtful while the issue of who has rights over the
territories remains unresolved, analysts said.  “The constellation is right, but they need to get rid of
the Georgian issue,” said Konstantinos Adamantopoulos, a trade
lawyer at Holman, Fenwick & Willan in Brussels who has advised
the Russian government on its WTO accession.  Georgia’s Demands  Georgia, which joined the WTO in 2000, said in 2006 that it
would seek to suspend Russia’s accession process after Moscow
banned the import of Georgian wine, mineral water, fruits and
vegetables and threatened to cut gas supplies. Georgia also
wants concessions on customs and border administration following
Russia’s occupation of  Abkhazia  and South Ossetia.  Tension is again mounting between the two countries.
Georgia recently accused Russia of supporting a spy network and
involvement in bombings on its territory. Some Russian
politicians and officials say Georgia is rebuilding its military
to threaten Abkhazia and South Ossetia -- which Russia says are
sovereign nations -- and aiding Islamist insurgents in Russia.  Russia won’t make any deals with Georgia to win WTO
membership, President  Dmitry Medvedev  -- the first Russian head
of state to visit Switzerland -- said in an Aug. 4 interview
with Georgian and Russian broadcasters. “WTO accession is not
too high a price to pay here,” he said.  Russia and Georgia now communicate mainly through Swiss
diplomats, who produced a document proposing ways to increase
transparency of customs controls. In a rare sign of progress,
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on July 12 that an
agreement ensuring transparency of trade across Russia’s border
with Abkhazia and South Ossetia was “very much doable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  