-- 
RWE Seeks Slot Sales at Dutch LNG Terminal in ‘Tight’ Market

-- B y   B e n   F a r e y
-- 
2011-08-31T14:49:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/rwe-seeks-slot-sales-at-dutch-lng-terminal-in-tight-market.html
RWE AG (RWE)  said it hopes to sell import
slots at the Dutch Gate liquefied natural gas terminal even as
the facility prepares to receive its first commercial cargo.  The company would consider selling “slots this year and in
the near term,” David Fuller, head of LNG at RWE Supply &
Trading GmbH, said in a phone interview from  London  today.  The newly completed Gate LNG terminal in Rotterdam will
receive its first commercial delivery of the chilled liquid fuel
tomorrow from the Gulf state of Qatar aboard the Bu Samra
vessel, Fuller said. The ship can carry 260,928 cubic meters of
the fuel and is a “Q-Max” tanker, the largest ever built.  Rising demand for LNG in Asia after the earthquake is
eroding a worldwide LNG production surplus, Sanford C. Bernstein
& Co. said in a research note dated Aug. 29. Global chilled gas
use advanced 9 percent in the first half from a year earlier,
driven by  Japan ,  South Korea , India and the U.K.  About 35 gigawatts of nuclear power remains offline in
Japan, due to maintenance and closures related to the March 11
earthquake, Bernstein said. LNG is the main substitute fuel.  “It’s a very tight market at the moment,” Fuller said.
“The tightening of the market’s made it harder for people with
no assets in the LNG business.” He added that high shipping
rates were also making it “penal” for new entrants.  Royal Vopak NV built the terminal with Nederlandse Gasunie
NV, the Dutch state-owned gas distribution company. Gate stands
for Gas Access to  Europe .  The facility will have three 180,000 cubic meter (6.4
million cubic feet)  storage tanks , one jetty and capacity for 12
billion cubic meters of gas a year. The terminal’s throughput
capacity may be increased to 16 billion cubic meters.  EON Ruhrgas AG, Dong Energy A/S, EconGas GmbH and RWE AG
also have import rights at Gate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Farey in London at 
 bfarey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Buckley  at 
 johnbuckley@bloomberg.net  