-- 
Human-Made Natural Disasters in Climate: Sachs

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 
2011-08-31T16:39:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/sachs-human-made-natural-disasters-in-climate.html
Human behavior is increasing the
frequency and severity of natural disasters, according to
 Jeffrey Sachs , a Columbia University economist.  “I’m not saying Hurricane Irene is an example of that, but
I am saying that when you look around the planet, every month
you are seeing more shocks, more frequently, more severe than at
any time in modern history,” Sachs said in a “Bloomberg
Surveillance” radio interview with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt.
“We are definitely in the midst of human-made natural
disasters.”  Hurricane Irene killed at least 40 people as it moved from
the Caribbean through  New England , left an estimated $2.6
billion in damage and cut power to almost 8 million homes and
businesses along the U.S. East Coast. Tropical Storm Katia,
about 1,100 miles (1,770 kilometers) from the southernmost Cape
Verde Islands, may be declared a hurricane later today,
according to the U.S. National Hurricane Center.  “Can one say that Katrina, or Irene or the massive floods
in  Pakistan  or drought in the horn of  Africa  are examples in
that instance of the long-term human induced change?” Sachs
said. “That is extremely difficult but on occasion it can be
done because the event is so extreme that one can say with a
very high assurance that that is human induced -- like the
massive heat waves that hit  Europe  a few years ago.”  Prices of raw materials will not spur investors to finding
alternatives to commodities that cause climate change, said
Sachs, the director of Columbia’s Earth Institute and the
Quetelet Professor of  Sustainable Development  at the New York-
based university.  ‘Odd Reality’  “We have the odd reality that we can dig up enough coal or
shale gas to wreck the planet before price scarcity itself is
going to choke this off,” Sachs said. “So we’re going to have
to make real, conscience choices rather than letting the market
itself decide.”  The Energy Information Administration, the statistical arm
of the U.S. Energy Department,  estimates  global coal reserves at
909 billion tons, a 129 year supply. Benchmark European coal
prices rose 50 cents or 0.4 percent, to $129.50 a metric ton
today in  London . The five-year average price is $100.48 per
metric ton.  “We’ve transitioned globally into a human-led environment
where human’s effects on carbon flows, energy flows, water flows
are so dominant now that we have changed the probability
distribution of when extreme droughts or hurricanes or heat
waves are hitting the planet,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  