-- 
SEC Accuses Ex-Syntax-Brillian Executives of Accounting Fraud

-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 
2011-08-31T16:10:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/sec-accuses-ex-syntax-brillian-executives-of-accounting-fraud.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission accused three former executives of Syntax-Brillian
Corp. of booking fake sales of high-definition televisions in
 China  to artificially inflate the firm’s earnings.  James Li, who served in various executive roles at Tempe,
Arizona-based Syntax, and former chief procurement officer
 Thomas Chow  used phony shipping and sales documents to funnel
millions of dollars from 2006 to 2008 through a Taiwan-based
manufacturer and a purported customer in Hong Kong, the SEC said
in a statement today. Li agreed to pay a $100,000 penalty and
other sanctions to be determined by U.S. District Court in
Arizona, and the lawsuit against Chow continues, the SEC said.  Wayne Pratt, Syntax’s former chief financial officer,
agreed to pay more than $200,000 to resolve claims he ignored
red flags about the improper accounting, according to the
statement. The SEC also sanctioned two executives at the Taiwan-
based manufacturer, the agency said.  Syntax filed for bankruptcy under Chapter 11 in 2008,
citing the high cost of goods, a complicated ownership structure
and pending litigation. The firm has also been investigated by a
 task force  with personnel from the  Justice Department , Internal
Revenue Service and Postal Inspection Service.  In settling the claims, Li and Pratt didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing. A phone call to Pratt wasn’t immediately returned. A
person answering a number listed for James Li in  San Jose ,
California, hung up without responding to questions. A phone
number for Thomas Chow couldn’t immediately be located.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  