-- 
Volvo Cars, Siemens Plan Partnership to Build Electric Vehicles

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-08-31T08:30:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/siemens-volvo-cars-partner-on-developing-electric-autos.html
Volvo Car Corp. and  Siemens AG (SIE)  said
they plan a partnership to develop electric vehicles and aim to
start testing the autos by the end of this year.  Siemens,  Europe ’s largest engineering company, will develop
electric motors and charging systems with Gothenburg, Sweden-
based Volvo. Siemens will try out as many as 200 Volvo electric
cars under real-life conditions by late 2012 following test-
track studies in coming months, the manufacturers said in
separate statements.  “We are moving ahead quickly in this area, Volvo Chief
Executive Officer  Stefan Jacoby  said in the carmaker’s
statement. ‘‘Our aim is to be first with the latest technology
within electrification. The partnership reinforces our aim to
pursue the fast-growing market for electric cars.’’  Volvo, which  Ford Motor Co. (F)  sold last year to  China ’s
Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., aims to more than double sales
to 800,000 vehicles by 2020 from 373,525 last year. Doug Speck,
head of the Swedish carmaker’s U.S. operations, said in January
that the company is making introduction of hybrid-powered and
fully electric models in that market a higher priority than
introducing diesel vehicles there.  ‘‘Cooperation with Volvo is an important milestone in the
development of top-quality components and systems for electric
cars subsequently intended for series production,” Siegfried Russwurm, head of Siemens Industry Sector, said in the Munich-
based company’s statement. “It is our long-term goal to
establish Siemens as a global system provider both inside and
outside of electric vehicles.”  The Swedish carmaker said today that it will start small-
scale production of an electric version of its smallest car, the
C30, this year. Motors for that model are being supplied by
Sennwald, Switzerland-based Brusa Elektronik AG, Per-Ake Froberg, a Volvo spokesman, said in a phone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in  Stockholm  at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net . 