-- 
Singapore Gains as Hong Kong Follows China Rule on Immunity

-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 
2011-08-31T01:52:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/singapore-to-gain-as-hong-kong-follows-china-s-laws-on-sovereign-immunity.html
Singapore , seeking to create a
“multi-billion dollar” market for resolving cross-border
disputes, will gain from China’s affirmation that sovereign
states can’t be sued in  Hong Kong  courts, lawyers say.  On Aug. 26, China approved an interpretation of Hong Kong’s
Basic Law that states the city should follow central government
policy giving countries absolute immunity.  Singapore, which allows sovereign states to be sued on
commercial and contractual issues, has opened its legal market
to foreign law firms and offered tax incentives in a challenge
to Hong Kong for international arbitration business. Hong Kong
handled 25 percent more international cases than Singapore last
year, compared with having  nearly three times  as many
arbitration cases as Singapore in 2009.  “The decision essentially renders Hong Kong an unsuitable
forum in which to resolve disputes with states,” said James
Berger, a New York-based lawyer with Paul Hastings Janofsky &
Walker LLP. “Because parties will be unable to compel states to
honor arbitration agreements in Hong Kong,” they are likely to
choose other jurisdictions, including Singapore, to solve their
conflicts, he said.  The decision by  China ’s Standing Committee of the National
People’s Congress affirmed a June ruling by Hong Kong’s top
court in a lawsuit brought against the  Democratic Republic  of
Congo.  FG Hemisphere Lawsuit  FG Hemisphere Associates LLC, a so-called vulture fund that
buys distressed debt, sued Congo in jurisdictions around the
world in a bid to seize assets to enforce two arbitration
awards. In Hong Kong, its attempt to collect the payments has
tested the financial center’s judicial independence.  Peter Grossman, managing director at FG Capital Management
Ltd. in  New York , declined to comment on the implications of
China’s decision.  “Rightly or wrongly, the perception would likely be that
Hong Kong is a less neutral seat than Singapore for disputes
with politically connected PRC entities,” said  Yu-Jin Tay , head
of international arbitration in  Asia  at Shearman & Sterling LLP
in Singapore. “This decision could reinforce such views.”  Robert Pe, head of Asia dispute resolution at Orrick
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, which advised Congo in Hong Kong,
said concerns over the city’s judicial independence are
unfounded.  ‘Alive and Well’  Hong Kong’s top court has ruled against its government as
often as in its favor, Pe said. “This suggests that judicial
independence is alive and well in Hong Kong.”  Hong Kong was ranked 15th out of 139 countries by a  World
Economic Forum report  for its judicial independence. Singapore
was 21st. Both cities, which were former British colonies, were
rated as having Asia’s best court systems.  The legal services sector accounted for 0.6 percent of
Singapore’s economic output, or S$1.59 billion ($1.32 billion),
in 2009, according to the government.  Singapore’s top court in 2008 dismissed the  Philippines ’
appeal for state immunity in a case where the ownership of the
alleged ill-gotten gains held by the late Filipino President
 Ferdinand Marcos  was contested. The Philippines, one of the
defendants in a related lawsuit, had sought a Singapore court
order to release the funds.  Other Rulings  The New South Wales Supreme Court in December ruled FG
Hemisphere’s claims could be pursued in  Australia . U.S. and
Canadian courts have also said the arbitration awards were
enforceable in those countries.  Hong Kong was guaranteed an independent judiciary and a
separate legal system for at least 50 years under the Basic Law
when it returned to Chinese rule in 1997.  The application in Hong Kong of the principle of
“restrictive immunity,” which allows sovereign states to be
sued for commercial matters, “would prejudice the sovereignty
of China,” China’s foreign ministry wrote in an Aug. 25, 2010,
letter.  “The impact of this is only limited to doing business with
states,” said Mark Lin, a Hong Kong-based partner at law firm
 Hogan Lovells .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  