-- 
Sino-Forest Investors Sue Executives

-- B y   S i m o n   C a s e y   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-08-31T20:55:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/sino-forest-investors-sue-ceo-cfo-on-claims-of-backdating-stock-options.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  Chief Executive
Officer  Allen Chan  and Chief Financial Officer David Horsley
received  stock options  that were backdated or mispriced in
violation of Toronto Stock Exchange rules, according to a
lawsuit from two investors.  The options include those issued to Chan in 1996 and 2007
and to Horsley in 2005 and 2007, according to a  statement of
claim  sent Aug. 30 by the investors to an Ontario court.  “The defendants profited handsomely from the market’s
resulting appetite for Sino’s securities,” according to the
claim. “Certain of the individual defendants sold Sino shares
at lofty prices, and thereby reaped millions of dollars of
gains.”  The class action, which is seeking more than C$7 billion
($7.2 billion), was filed by trustees of the Labourers’ Pension
Fund of Central and Eastern  Canada  and the trustees of the
International Union of Operating Engineers Local 793 Pension
Plan for Operating Engineers in Ontario. The plaintiffs are
seeking damages from Sino-Forest, Chan and Horsley and other
defendants.  “The allegations leveled in this action assert misconduct
that pervades almost every corner of Sino-Forest’s operations,”
Dimitri Lascaris, a lawyer at Siskinds LLP, said in a separate
statement.  The statement of claim also names Sino-Forest auditors
Ernst & Young LLP and the investment-banking units of Royal Bank
of Canada, Toronto-Dominion Bank and other lenders.  Trading Suspended  Stan Neve, an external spokesman for Sino-Forest in New
York, declined to comment. Horsley didn’t immediately respond to
voicemail messages left at his office and on his mobile phone.
Chan didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment to Sino-
Forest’s Hong Kong offices after regular working hours.  Sino-Forest’s shares were suspended from trading in Toronto
on Aug. 26 after the Ontario Securities Commission said officers
and directors of the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-based
company may have engaged in acts “related to its securities”
that they “knew or should have known” perpetuated a fraud.
Chan resigned as CEO two days later.  Sino-Forest insiders including Chan have sold C$81 million
of shares since the end of 2006, regulatory filings show.  The case is trustees of the Labourers’ Pension Fund of
Central and Eastern Canada v. Sino-Forest, 11-4311530, Superior
Court of Justice (Ontario).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Casey in  New York  at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 