-- 
Slovenian Economic Growth Slowed in Second Quarter on Demand

-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-08-31T08:33:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/slovenian-economic-growth-slowed-in-second-quarter-on-demand-1-.html
Slovenia’s economic growth slowed
more than economists expected in the second quarter from a year
earlier as industrial output lost pace and demand in  Europe  for
its exports waned.  Gross domestic product grew 0.9 percent, compared with a
revised 2.3 percent in the first three months, the statistics
 office  in Ljubljana said today on its website. The median
estimate of five economists in a Bloomberg survey saw GDP rising
1.5 percent. Previously, the office had reported growth for the
January-March period at 2 percent.  “Exports are easing from high levels at the start of the
year and growth in industrial production is also moderating,”
 Goran Saravanja , chief economist at Zagrebacka Banka d.d., a
unit of UniCredit SpA in Zagreb said before the report. “GDP
growth will probably slow as easing trends in Europe take some
time to translate into Slovenia’s economy.”  Slovenia’s export-driven economy will probably slow further
as savings measures in Europe sap demand and the sovereign-debt
crisis in the euro region adds to uncertainty over the economic
recovery. The government expects the economy to expand 1.8
percent this year, according to the Finance Minister  Franc Krizanic , who previously expected growth of about 2.2 percent.  Like other nations using the euro, Slovenia must trim
budget spending to allay investor concerns over debt as Prime
Minister Borut Pahor’s minority government prepares a budget
review. The measure may not pass in parliament, where the
administration has 33 lawmakers in the 90-member assembly.  The  construction industry  is still weighing on growth and
denting earnings at Slovenian banks, which are putting aside
record loan-loss provisions. Profit at Nova Kreditna Banka
Maribor d.d., the country’s second biggest lender by assets,
plunged more than 80 percent to 2.8 million euros ($4 million)
in the first six months, the Maribor-based bank said yesterday.
Bad loan reserves advanced to 49 million euros, it said.  Industrial production slowed in June to 1.9 percent from a
year ago. In May, it gained an annual 6.2 percent which compares
with a 12.7 percent pace in January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana, Slovenia at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  