-- 
Smith & Nephew Shares Advance After Takeover Speculation

-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 
2011-08-31T15:45:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/smith-nephew-climbs-u-k-newspapers-report-speculation-of-stryker-bid.html
Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  rose the most in
almost eight months in  London  trading after four U.K. newspapers
reported that traders were speculating the maker of artificial
knees and hips may receive a takeover offer.  Smith & Nephew climbed 29 pence, or 4.9 percent, to 625.5
pence, giving the London-based company a market value of 5.58
billion pounds ($9.1 billion). The gain was the biggest since
Jan. 10, following a 3.9 percent jump yesterday. The Guardian
today cited “renewed talk” of a bid by  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  amounting
to 850 pence a share.  Investors have been speculating about an acquisition of
Smith & Nephew since December, when the  Daily Mail  said a U.S.
private equity group may make a bid.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  looked at
buying the company, a person familiar with the plan said in
January. Regulators probably would block J&J or Stryker from
buying Smith & Nephew, said  Justin Smith  of MF Global.  “The combined market shares of the hip and knee implant
businesses would be anti-competitive,” Smith, a London-based
analyst, wrote in a report today. Divestments that antitrust
authorities are likely to require “would also compromise the
strategic rationale of an acquisition because the synergies
would be so limited.”  ‘Hot Gossip’  Jon Coles, a spokesman for Smith & Nephew at Brunswick
Group in London, declined to comment on the newspaper reports.
 William Price , a spokesman for Johnson & Johnson in  New
Brunswick ,  New Jersey , and Tamara Cutler, a spokeswoman for
Stryker in Kalamazoo,  Michigan , said their companies don’t
comment on speculation.  The Independent reported today that Stryker may offer 850
pence to 900 pence a share. The Daily Mail said Biomet Inc. may
bid 900 pence a share, citing “hot gossip” among traders. The
Times also reported a “reheated rumor” that Stryker was
considering an 850-pence bid.  Most of Stryker’s recent acquisitions have been of
companies that operate in faster-growing markets than hip and
knee replacement, David Keiser, an analyst for Northcoast
Research Holdings LLC in  Cleveland , said in an interview.  “They’re targeting markets where there’s stronger growth
outlooks, so I’m not sure Smith & Nephew would be consistent
with the acquisition strategy we’ve seen,” Keiser said.  Stryker’s Acquisitions  Stryker has completed at least 10 acquisitions in the past
five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
largest, at $1.5 billion, was the purchase in January of a
 Boston Scientific Corp. (BSX)  unit that makes devices to treat
strokes.  Olivier Bohuon took over as Smith & Nephew’s chief
executive officer in April from David Illingworth, who retired.
Bohuon probably will argue to shareholders that he can deliver
more value than 900 pence a share, MF Global’s Smith said. He
recommends selling Smith & Nephew shares.  A Johnson & Johnson bid still seems the most plausible,
said Lisa Bedell Clive, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd.
in London. The U.S. company could extract cost savings from all
three of Smith & Nephew’s businesses, she said in a telephone
interview.  Smith & Nephew makes orthopedics such as joint
replacements, endoscopy products, or equipment used in minimally
invasive surgery, and products to treat hard-to-heal wounds.  Talks in 2006  Smith & Nephew held talks with Biomet in 2006 but lost out
on a takeover of the Warsaw, Indiana-based implant maker to a
group of private-equity firms that included Blackstone Group LP,
KKR & Co., TPG and the buyout arm of Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Antitrust officials probably would approve a combination of
Smith & Nephew and Biomet, MF Global’s Smith said. Still, Biomet
has so much debt from the buyout that banks probably wouldn’t
lend it the money to buy Smith & Nephew, he said. Smith & Nephew
shareholders probably would object if the company planned to
issue shares to buy Biomet, he wrote.  Biomet “didn’t seem like they were interested, from the
conversations I’ve had with them,” Keiser said.  “We don’t comment on market speculations,” said Bill Kolter, a spokesman for Biomet.  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  might make sense as an acquirer,
because the company doesn’t have a presence in sports medicine,
as Smith & Nephew does, Keiser said. However, Smith & Nephew is
“a little bigger than the transactions they’re talking about,”
he said. “But if Smith & Nephew is in play, they’d look.”  A call to  Garry Clark , a spokesman for Zimmer in Warsaw,
 Indiana , wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  