-- 
Solyndra, Solar-Panel Company Visited by Obama in 2010, Suspends Operation

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-08-31T20:44:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/solyndra-to-file-for-bankruptcy-mulls-sale-and-licensing-deals.html
Solyndra Inc., a maker of solar
modules that received a $535 million loan  guarantee  from the
U.S. Energy Department, suspended operations and plans to file
for bankruptcy, saying it couldn’t compete with larger rivals.  The closely held company will seek Chapter 11 protection,
Fremont, California-based Solyndra said today in a statement. It
didn’t say how much it owes to creditors.  Solyndra is the third U.S. solar manufacturer to fail in a
month as falling panel prices and weak global demand are driving
a wave of industry consolidation. President Obama visited
Solyndra’s factory in May 2010 to promote investments in
renewable energy and its closure will provide fuel to critics of
his policies.  “Solyndra could not achieve full-scale operations rapidly
enough to compete in the near term with the resources of larger
foreign manufacturers,” the company said in the statement. Its
problems were exacerbated by a global glut of solar panels and
slowing demand “that in part resulted from uncertainty in
governmental incentive programs in  Europe .”  The company will likely file for bankruptcy in  Delaware 
next Wednesday, Spokesman  David Miller  said in an e-mail, while
it evaluates options including selling itself or licensing its
technology. About 1,100 full-time and temporary employees have
been dismissed, effective immediately.  It may have trouble finding a buyer, said Adam Krop, an
analyst at Ardour Capital Partners in New York. “I don’t see
anyone swooping in,” he said today in an interview. “I don’t
see this technology as very viable in the long-term. I see
someone maybe buying the facility.”  Technology Not ‘Scalable’  Solyndra produces cylindrical panels that convert sunlight
into electricity using copper-indium-gallium-diselenide thin-
film technology. Standard solar panels are flat.  “Manufacturing and assembly costs associated with a
Solyndra module aren’t particularly scalable,” Krop said.  The company has borrowed $527 million of the $535 million
Energy Department loan guarantee, Damien LaVera, the agency’s
press secretary, said today in an e-mail.  Solyndra plans to include the Energy Department loan
guarantee in its bankruptcy filing.  ‘Dubious Investment’  Solyndra’s failure shows that the White House’s renewable
energy policies are misguided, said two Republican congressmen.  “It is clear that Solyndra was a dubious investment,”
representatives  Fred Upton , of  Michigan , and Cliff Stearns, of
 Florida , said in a joint statement. The company “is just the
latest casualty of the Obama administration’s failed stimulus.”  Not every investment in start-up companies is expected to
pay off, Dan Leistikow, director of the Energy Department’s
Office of Public Affairs, said today in an  article  on the
agency’s website. “The changing economics have affected a
number of solar manufacturers in recent months, including
unfortunately, Solyndra,” he said. “We have always recognized
that not every one of the innovative companies supported by our
loans and loan guarantees would succeed.”  Rep. Henry Waxman, a California Democrat, reiterated that.
Recent bankruptcies of U.S. solar companies are a warning and
“we should be doing everything possible to ensure the  United
States  does not cede the renewable energy market to  China  and
other countries,” he said in an e-mailed statement.  SpectraWatt Inc., a solar company backed by units of  Intel
Corp . and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., filed for  bankruptcy
protection  Aug. 19, and Evergreen Solar Inc. did so Aug. 15.  Solyndra canceled in June 2010 plans to raise as much as
$300 million in an initial public offering.  Solyndra’s backers include Argonaut Private Equity, GKFF
Investment, CMEA Ventures, Redpoint Ventures, Rockport Capital
Partners LLC, US Venture Partners, Virgin Green Fund, and Artis
Capital Management LP, according to the company’s December 2009
IPO filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  