-- 
Sony, Toshiba, Hitachi Unload LCD Units to Japan Government-Backed Fund

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   T a k a s h i   A m a n o
-- 
2011-08-31T11:23:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/sony-toshiba-hitachi-to-merge-lcd-businesses-form-state-backed-venture.html
Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  and
 Hitachi Ltd. (6501)  agreed to divest their liquid-crystal display
businesses to a government-backed fund amid mounting competition
from South Korean and Taiwanese producers.  The companies will spin off and merge the units to create
Japan Display K.K. next year, the three Tokyo-based electronics
makers said today. The government-backed  Innovation Network
Corp. of Japan  will own 70 percent of the venture after a 200
billion yen ($2.6 billion) investment, while Sony, Toshiba and
Hitachi will split the remaining 30 percent, they said.  The deal may create the world’s biggest maker of LCDs for
mobile phones and cameras as Japanese companies struggle to
compete against Korea’s Samsung Electronics Co. and  Taiwan ’s
 Chimei Innolux Corp. (3481)  in the larger market for television
displays. Sony and Hitachi are unprofitable in LCDs, while
Toshiba ended losses at its display division last fiscal year.  “For each of the three companies,  capital spending  would
continue to be a burden and it’s hard for them to stay
competitive on their own,” said Yuichi Ishida, a Tokyo-based
analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co. “It’s probably a
plan led by the government trying to boost presence of Japanese
manufacturers in the global market.”  Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics,
fell 1.8 percent to close at 1,665 yen in  Tokyo  trading before
the announcement, widening this year’s loss to 43 percent.
Toshiba dropped 2.4 percent, while Hitachi gained 0.5 percent.  New Management  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman for Samsung and Son
Young Jun, a Seoul-based spokesman for LG Display Co., declined
to comment on how the Korean companies view the Japanese
government’s involvement in the venture.  Chimei Innolux’s relationship with the three Japanese
companies will stay “quite strong” as they share cross-
licensing and foundry agreements, said spokesman Eddie Chen.  AU
Optronics Corp. (2409) , Taiwan’s second-largest maker of liquid-crystal
displays, “will still be able to maintain our competitive
edge,” the Hsinchu-based company said in an e-mailed response
to questions.  Japan Display will use the money from INCJ to build new
production lines and hire external managers, the companies said
in a statement. Sony, Toshiba and Hitachi will appoint directors
on the venture’s board, it said.  Future IPO  The venture plans to sell shares in an initial public
offering by the year ending March 2016, with a target to boost
sales to at least 750 billion yen for that year from an
estimated 570 billion yen in the year ending March 2012,
according to INCJ.  Approvals from antitrust regulators will be sought later,
said Kimikazu Noumi, President and CEO of INCJ.  “We don’t think there will be a big issue getting
approvals,” he told reporters in Tokyo today.  Sony, Toshiba and Hitachi accounted for a combined 22
percent of the market for small- and medium-sized LCDs --defined
as screens measuring up to nine inches -- last year, according
to estimates by researcher DisplaySearch. By comparison, Sharp
Corp.’s share was 15 percent, followed by  South Korea ’s  Samsung
Group  and Taiwan’s Chimei with 12 percent each, according to the
research firm.  “Unless we have a top market share, we can’t cope flexibly
with set-makers’ requests,” Toshiba President Norio Sasaki told
reporters in Tokyo. “The scale of our business is too small to
grow continuously, or to remain competitive.”  Sony LCDs  Sales in the industry will probably jump 22 percent to $24
billion this year following a 16 percent gain in 2010, according
to DisplaySearch estimates.  For Sony, spinning off the business that it acquired from
 Seiko Epson Corp. (6724)  in 2009 would free up resources to focus more
on other electronics components such as image sensors used in
digital cameras and mobile phones. The company is spending 140
billion yen to double its production capacity of such sensors.  Sony’s LCD unit, based in Aichi prefecture, central Japan,
has 2,200 employees and three production bases, including one in
 China , according to Jin Tomihari, a Sony spokesman. The unit
posted an operating loss of 5.5 billion yen and generated 141.2
billion yen in revenue in the year ended March 31, according to
the company’s  website .  Hitachi’s LCD unit posted sales of 150.8 billion yen and an
operation loss of 2.5 billion yen in the year ended March,
according to Atsushi Konno, a Hitachi spokesman.  Sharp Competition  Toshiba recorded an operating profit of 10.1 billion yen at
its LCD division last year, compared with a loss of 36 billion
yen in the previous year. Sales of LCDs used in mobile devices
and car navigation systems at Toshiba rose 4 percent to 209.6
billion yen.  Osaka-based Sharp,  Japan ’s largest maker of LCDs, is
transforming its TV-panel plant in Kameyama city, central Japan,
to start making smaller screens from October, the company said
in June. Sharp is expecting profit from LCDs to jump 87 percent
to 32 billion yen this fiscal year as growing demand for smaller
panels used in mobile devices makes up for slower sales of
large-sized panels used in televisions.  Sony, the world’s third-largest TV maker, has said it’s
facing an eighth consecutive year of losses at the TV business.  Samsung, the world’s largest maker of flat-screen panels,
is seeking to slim down its display unit by combining teams and
reducing the number of executives, effective from tomorrow, the
Suwon, South Korea-based company said in a statement today.  The restructuring is aimed at “boosting the LCD unit’s
competitiveness and stabilizing the organization,” Samsung
said. The company replaced the head of the unprofitable division
on July 1.  The company today denied a report in the  Korea  Economic
Daily that it plans to cut output of TV panels by 80 percent by
the end of this year to divert resources to smaller panels for
tablets and notebook PCs.  Investment in the panel venture will be the INCJ fund’s
biggest since it was formed in July 2009 with a goal of spurring
new business growth, the Tokyo-based company said in a
statement. INCJ can invest as much as 900 billion yen with
support from the government and private companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  