-- 
Movies Will Give Sony Tablets Edge: Stringer

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-09-01T09:06:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/sony-to-sell-tablet-s-in-europe-from-end-september-for-479-euros.html
Sony Corp. is betting its tablet
computers will rival  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad by luring buyers with
music and movies, even as the Japanese company arrives more than
a year late in the booming market for such devices.  “Yes, yes, Apple makes an iPad, but does it make a
movie?” Sony Chief Executive Officer  Howard Stringer  said in a
presentation at Berlin’s annual consumer electronics fair
yesterday. “We will prove that it’s not who makes the tablet
first who counts but who makes it better.”  Sony, reeling from three straight years of losses without a
hit product, is matching the iPad’s price in  Japan  and the U.S.,
offering a 16-gigabyte model for $499 and a 32-gigabyte version
for $599, Yuki Shima, a spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based company,
said today. Stringer needs to differentiate the device from
those of its rivals by adding the ability to download
PlayStation Suite games, movies and music from its subscription
services.  “The tablet has to be significantly better than the iPad
for consumers to want to buy it at that price point,” said
 Alexander Peterc , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas. “Sony’s big
advantage is that they have the content. If they can make it
easy to use and hassle-free, they have half a vote from me.”  Sony, owner of the Sony Music record company and the Sony
Pictures movie studio, first presented its two tablet models in
April, a year after the iPad spurred a surge in demand for the
devices. The tablets unveiled today will run on Google Inc.’s
Android system and will integrate Sony’s music, video, gaming
and digital book offerings.  Videos, Games  Neil Mawston , an analyst at  Strategy Analytics , said the
Sony tablets will need to make these content services as easy to
use as Apple’s iTunes music, film, television and application
offerings.  “Anything at an Apple price has to have an Apple
offering,” Mawston said via phone. “There is still potential
to grow in this market.”  Worldwide sales of tablets are set to triple by value to
$30.6 billion this year, according to Strategy Analytics
estimates. Apple will probably dominate with a share of 73
percent, compared with 88 percent in 2010.  “We will aim to win the No. 1 share in the Android-based
tablet market in 2012,” Akihiro Matsubara, a director at  Sony
Corp. (6758) ’s marketing unit in Japan, told reporters in  Tokyo .  Sony, Japan’s largest consumer-electronics exporter, must
connect its TVs, Blu-ray players, game consoles and digital
cameras via the Internet to music, movies and video games,
Stringer said this year. Unconnected devices rapidly become
commodities as rivals compete for customers, he said.  Apple Vs Samsung  “Sony will have to differentiate its products with
services,” said Keita Wakabayashi, an analyst at Mito
Securities Co. “Sony’s online services will be much more
important than designs to lure customers.”  The Tablet S will cost from 45,000 yen ($583) in Japan when
it goes on sale on Sept. 17, Sony said in a press release today.
That compares with 44,800 yen for the iPad. Sony’s Tablet S will
be available in  Europe  from the end of this month for 479 euros
($689).  The Tablet P, a foldable compact, will be available in
Europe from November for 599 euros. Apple’s iPad 2 costs from
479 euros in European markets including  Germany .  Sony shares rose 2 percent to 1,698 yen at the 3 p.m. close
in Tokyo, trimming this year’s decline to 42 percent. Apple has
gained 19 percent this year.  The maker of Walkman music players may benefit as Samsung
Electronics Co. faces a legal challenge from Apple against its
newest tablet computer, which also runs on Android.  Patent Wrangle  A German judge said Aug. 25 that Apple’s intellectual
rights are probably strong enough to ban the sales of Samsung’s
Galaxy 10.1 tablet in that country. In the U.S., Samsung is
arguing that Apple stole the design for its iPad from the
Stanley Kubrick 1969 film “2001: A Space Odyssey.”  On Aug. 29, Samsung said it will defer the launch of the
10.1 tablet in  Australia  pending a hearing scheduled the week of
Sept. 26.  “The Samsung injunctions might help Sony,” Mawston said.
“If the perception among retailers and operators is that it’s
riskier to work with, that might make them turn to Sony.”  Sony, suffering from the March earthquake that crippled its
factories and disrupted supplies, cut its full-year profit
forecast in July by 25 percent, citing sluggish demand for TVs.  Stringer said yesterday Sony’s sales are now higher than
before a hacker attack on its network this year. The CEO said in
June that Sony would strengthen network security and seek to
regain customer trust after hackers forced the company to shut
down its online entertainment services in April.  Harry Potter   The maker of Bravia televisions also said yesterday it will
offer a new version of its Sony Reader, a digital book reader.  Sony is working with Pottermore.com, the Internet venture
of  J.K. Rowling , the billionaire author of the Harry Potter
books, to offer exclusive products and services.  “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows,” the final Harry
Potter novel, was released in July 2007, ending a series of
books that began in 1997. Rowling broke a publishing industry
record when the latest book sold 8.3 million copies in its first
24 hours and 11.5 million copies in its first 10 days.  Stringer says the new devices and services may help the
company move on from the difficulties earlier this year.  “In this year, we’ve been flooded, flattened, hacked and
zinged,” Stringer said in Berlin. “But the summer of
discontent is behind us.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Berlin via 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  