-- 
South African Bonds Surge, Posting Best Month Since 2008 as Economy Slows

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-08-31T15:33:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/south-african-bonds-surge-posting-best-month-since-2008-as-economy-slows.html
South African bonds surged this
month, pushing four-year yields down the most since 2008, buoyed
by foreign investor demand for relatively high-yielding fixed-
income securities amid signs the global economy is slowing.  The 13.5 percent notes due 2015 have gained 2.4 percent
this month, driving the yield down 82 basis points, or 0.82
percentage point, to 6.52 percent, the most since December 2008,
when it dropped 110 basis points. The yield was little changed
today.  “Fixed income remains a safe haven, even in emerging
markets,” Rand Merchant Bank analysts led by Theuns de Wet
wrote in an e-mailed note.  South African government debt returned 1.7 percent in
August, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show, even as the
nation’s benchmark stock index declined 0.7 percent. Africa’s
biggest economy expanded an annualized 1.3 percent in the second
quarter, its slowest pace in almost two years, as slowing global
growth dimmed prospects for the country’s commodity exports,
Statistics  South Africa  said yesterday.  Foreign investors bought a net 12 billion rand ($1.71
billion) of South African bonds this month, even as they sold
10.4 billion rand of equities, according to JSE Ltd. data. So
far this year, global funds have bought 54.5 billion rand of
South African bonds, compared with 57.1 billion of purchases in
2010.  Foreign Inflows  South Africa attracted 15 percent of investments in
emerging-market debt this year, with global investors now owning
about 30 percent of government debt, according to research by
Johannesburg-based Afrifocus Securities.  “The trend of foreign inflows into our  bond market  has
proved resilient,” Michael Grobler, a fixed-income analyst at
Afrifocus, said in an e-mail. “September may still prove
supportive for bond yields” given the “macro data environment
for bonds”.  The  Reserve Bank  has kept its benchmark  interest rate 
unchanged at 5.5 percent this year to help boost the recovery in
the nation’s economy, even as price pressures increased. The
central bank will “act appropriately” if a sustained slowdown
in the global economy dragged back domestic growth, Governor
Gill Marcus said on Aug. 23.  “The uninspiring local GDP data fuelled hopes that the
Reserve Bank might reduce its lending rates over coming months,
which encouraged bond market bulls,” Standard Bank Group Ltd.
analysts led by Johannesburg-based Michael Keenan said in a
research note. “There has been a notable recalibration of both
global and domestic growth, which warrants an extended period of
accommodative monetary policy.”  South African government bonds prices have rallied 5
percent in 2011, while an index of bonds around the world
returned 2.8 percent, Bank of America figures show. The FTSE JSE
Africa All-Share Index has declined 3.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  