-- 
South Korean Inflation Accelerates to 3-Year High, Pressuring BOK to Act

-- B y   W i l l i a m   S i m   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 
2011-09-01T02:02:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/south-korean-inflation-accelerates-to-3-year-high-pressuring-bok-to-act.html
South Korea ’s inflation accelerated
to the fastest pace in three years in August on rising food
prices, adding to pressure on the central bank to increase
borrowing costs.  Consumer prices rose 5.3 percent from a year earlier, after
a 4.7 percent gain in July, Statistics  Korea  said today in
Gwacheon, south of  Seoul . That was higher than any forecast by
11 economists, whose median estimate was 4.8 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey. Prices rose 0.9 percent from July.  The Bank of Korea needs to weigh whether the threat of
inflation is bigger than risks to growth as slowing global
demand weighs on industrial output and corporate and  consumer
confidence . Stronger-than-expected exports last month may have
strengthened the case for boosting borrowing costs.  “Today’s data shows the nation needs higher  interest rates 
as inflation pressures will likely stay high and growth momentum
is still intact despite the global financial market rout,” said
Kong Dong Rak, a fixed-income analyst at Taurus Investment &
Securities Co. in Seoul.  The won rose 0.4 percent to 1,062.80 per dollar as of 10:24
a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
Kospi stock index gained 2 percent.  Exports expanded 27.1 percent in August, exceeding
analysts’ median estimate of a 25 percent gain, a separate
report showed today.  Core Prices  Core prices, which exclude energy and food costs, advanced
4 percent in August from a year earlier, the biggest gain since
April 2009, today’s report showed. The 5.3 percent increase in
consumer prices was the fastest since August 2008. Prices of
agricultural, livestock and fishery products jumped 13.3 percent
from a year earlier, the report showed.  “Inflation will likely remain high ahead of the Chuseok
holidays in September, but stabilize in the fourth quarter as
the weather improves and oil prices fall,” said Lee Sang Jae,
an economist at Hyundai Securities in Seoul. “The central bank
is likely to take a wait-and-see stance on the rate policy for
now as the economy faces higher risks from slower growth than
higher prices.”  LG Display Co., the world’s second-largest maker of liquid-
crystal displays, may cut spending next year as slowing flat-
screen television sales damp demand, Chief Executive Officer
Kwon Young Soo said last month.  ’Normalize’ Rates  Bank of Korea  Governor Kim Choong Soo said the central bank
will continue to “normalize” interest rates unless there’s a
global recession, in an interview in  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming  on
Aug. 26.  The central bank has raised its benchmark interest rate
three times this year to 3.25 percent, most recently in June. It
will meet to decide policy on September 8.  “With inflation emerging as a top political issue and
stronger September exports expected, a rate hike in October
cannot be ruled out,” Wai Ho Leong, senior regional economist
of  Barclays Capital  in  Singapore , said before the report.  Higher living costs have increased voters’ discontent with
President  Lee Myung Bak , whose public support fell to 33 percent
last month compared with 76 percent when he came to power in
February 2008, according to an Aug. 22-26 poll by Seoul-based
Realmeter.  Exports, equivalent to about half the economy, fell to
$46.4 billion last month from revised $50.6 billion in July,
today’s report showed. Imports climbed 29.2 percent to $45.6
billion. The  trade surplus  was $821 million, compared with $6.3
billion in July.  South Korea’s industrial production rose 3.8 percent from a
year earlier in July, compared with a 6.2 percent median
estimate by 11 economists in a Bloomberg News survey, a report
released yesterday showed.  Manufacturers’ confidence fell to a 21-month low for
September and consumer confidence fell to a five-month low in
August, reports last month showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Sim in Seoul at 
 wsim2@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  