-- 
Spain Expects ‘Chain’ of Market Turbulence, Valenciano Says

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T o m a s
-- 
2011-08-31T10:59:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/spain-expects-chain-of-market-turbulence-valenciano-says.html
Spain  expects a “chain of
turbulence” in the next two months and must fight “tooth and
nail” to avoid having to seek a bailout, Elena Valenciano, the
ruling Socialist party’s campaign chief, said today.  “We’re probably going to get back into a chain of
financial turbulence in September and October,” Valenciano said
in an interview with  Onda Cero  radio today. “An intervention in
Spain would be a great misfortune for the country.”  Spanish Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is
fighting opposition from traditional allies in the unions and
members of his own party to enshrine budget discipline in the
constitution. Three months before a general election that polls
indicate his party will lose, the move is Zapatero’s latest
effort to stem a surge in borrowing costs that prompted the
 European Central Bank  to start buying Spanish bonds.  Valenciano said the constitutional amendment, due to be
voted on in Parliament on Sept. 2, is necessary as Spain must
avoid following Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  into seeking a
European bailout.  “We have to say this because sometimes talking of a rescue
seems almost something positive: any kind of intervention in
Spain would be a great misfortune for the country,” she said.
“We have to fight tooth and nail to avoid suffering a worse
situation.”  The gap between Spanish and German 10-year borrowing costs
narrowed to 287 basis points today from 289 basis points
yesterday. That compares with a euro-era intraday high of 418
basis points on Aug. 5, which contributed to the ECB buying
Spanish and Italian securities the following week.  Valenciano said authorities “didn’t expect August to be as
bad as it was” and that the gap may widen again in the next two
months, “not so much because of our own debt, but because of
 Italy ’s debt.” Italy faces bond redemptions of about 46 billion
euros in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  