-- 
Spain’s Castilla-La Mancha to Shrink Deficit by Budget Cuts

-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-08-31T18:51:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/spain-s-castilla-la-mancha-to-shrink-deficit-by-budget-cuts-1-.html
Spain ’s region of Castilla-La
Mancha, run by the  People’s Party  that polls suggest will win
control of the central government in November, vowed to cut the
nation’s highest regional deficit by 2012 without raising taxes.  Castilla-La Mancha, which had a budget gap of 6.5 percent
of gross domestic product last year, will slash spending by 1.7
billion euros ($2.4 billion) to achieve a deficit of 1.3 percent
of GDP next year, President Maria Dolores de Cospedal told
reporters today in Toledo, a city close to  Madrid .  Cospedal is
a high ranking member of Spain’s PP, which took over the region
from the Socialists after local elections on May 22.  Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions manage more than a third
of public spending, including health care and education, playing
a crucial role in the nation’s effort to reduce the euro area’s
third-largest shortfall to 6 percent of GDP this year from 9.2
percent in 2010. Moody’s Investors Service last month cited
fiscal slippage by the regions as a reason for putting Spain’s
Aa2 rating on review for a downgrade.  Castilla-La Mancha’s plan relies mostly on spending cuts,
according to a document released by Cospedal’s office, without
providing details. Hiring in the public sector will be frozen
next year as will be all new infrastructure projects, the
document says. Teachers will be requested to teach two hours
more a week in high school and subsidies for unions are to be
terminated. Several commissions and agencies are to be scrapped,
including Castilla’s competition commission, its tourism agency,
its office in Brussels and the local ombudsman.  Spending Cuts  The measures also include cutting down on public building
maintenance, control of fuel used by public vehicles and calls
made to mobile phones, as well as printing restrictions to save
ink. Staff will be reorganized within region-owned buildings to
reduce renting expenses. Vehicles will be sold and properties
disposed of and leased back.  PP officials say they would do a better job than Socialist
Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero in proving to
investors Spain can avoid following Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland
into needing a bailout. The opposition party supports the
Socialists’ plan to amend the constitution and include a
“principle of budget stability” on Sept. 2.  Regions Overshoot  The regions have typically overshot deficit targets,
forcing the central government to compensate with deeper cuts.
The region of Catalonia, Spain’s richest with an economy the
size of Portugal, aims for a budget gap of 2.66 percent of GDP
this year, compared with a shortfall of 3.86 percent in 2010.  Extremadura may post a budget deficit equivalent to 6.81
percent of its gross domestic product this year, Efe newswire
reported today, citing Antonio Fernandez, the regional finance
chief.  Castilla-La Mancha’s deficit already exceeded 4 percent of
GDP in June, Cospedal said, adding that the PP inherited “a
ruin” from the previous government. The region is negotiating
with banks to pay suppliers to whom it owes more than 2.5
billion euros. The region’s debt amounts to 6.1 billion euros,
or 16.9 percent of GDP, according to the Bank of Spain.  In the center of Spain and famous as home to the fictional
character Don Quixote, Castilla-La Mancha accounts for about 3
percent of Spain’s economic output, a similar proportion to
 Greece ’s weight in the euro region.  Socialist belt-tightening implemented since last year as
the government cut wages, froze pensions and raised taxes has
fueled popular resentment. The PP would win 47.6 percent of the
vote if national election were held now, compared with 35
percent for the Socialists, ABC newspaper reported on Aug. 7,
citing a poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  