-- 
Spain Central Government Deficit Narrowed in First Seven Months

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 
2011-08-31T11:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/spain-central-government-deficit-narrowed-in-first-seven-months.html
Spain ’s central government budget
deficit narrowed in the first seven months of the year as the
nation aims to cut the euro area’s third-largest shortfall and
fight contagion from the region’s debt crisis.  The central government reported a 22.7 billion-euro ($32.8
billion) deficit at the end of July, or 2.09 percent of gross
domestic product, compared with 25.8 billion euros, or 2.43
percent of GDP, a year earlier, the  Finance Ministry  in Madrid
said in an e-mailed statement today. For the full year, the
central government has pledged to reduce the gap to 4.8 percent.  Prime Minister Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero is trying to
convince investors Spain can avoid following Greece, Portugal
and Ireland into a bailout. Lawmakers vote on Sept. 2 on
including the “principle of budget stability” in the
constitution, a move supported by the ruling Socialists and the
opposition  People’s Party  after bond yields jumped to a euro-era
record this month, prompting the  European Central Bank  to buy
the nation’s debt.  In a separate statement, the Labor Ministry said the
social-security system had a surplus equal to 0.3 percent of GDP
on July 31. Second-quarter data has not yet been released for
Spain’s 17 semi-autonomous regions. This year’s target for the
nation’s total deficit, which includes the regional
administrations’ shortfalls and the balance of the social-
security system, is 6 percent of GDP, down from 9.2 percent last
year.  ’On Review For Downgrade’  The regions play a crucial role in deficit reduction as
they manage over a third of public spending. Moody’s Investors
Service said on Aug. 29 that a legislative change to impose more
discipline on regional governments would be a positive factor in
its next review of the nation’s Aa2 rating. Last month, Moody’s
cited fiscal slippage by the regions as a reason for putting
Spain on review for a downgrade.  The regions have typically overshot deficit targets,
forcing the central government to compensate with deeper cuts to
achieve Spain’s overall goal. The region of Catalonia, Spain’s
richest with an economy the size of  Portugal , aims for a budget
gap of 2.66 percent of GDP this year, compared with a shortfall
of 3.86 percent in 2010.  Castilla-La Mancha, which has Spain’s highest regional
deficit-to-GDP ratio, said it will negotiate with banks to pay
suppliers to whom it owes more than 2.5 billion euros. The
region’s debt amounts to 6.1 billion euros, or 16.9 percent of
GDP, according to the Bank of Spain.  Parliament approved further austerity measures worth 3.1
billion euros on Aug. 23, bringing forward corporate-tax
receipts and reducing health spending. Last year, Spain cut
wages, froze pensions and raised taxes, fueling a popular
backlash that polls indicate will return the PP to power at the
next general election on Nov. 20.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  