-- 
Sprint Jumps After U.S. Sues to Block AT&T, T-Mobile Deal

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T20:26:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/sprint-rises-after-u-s-complaint-to-block-at-t-t-mobile-deal.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S) , the third-
largest U.S. mobile-phone carrier, rose 5.9 percent after the
U.S. government sued to block rival  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s proposed $39
billion acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc.  Sprint Nextel jumped 21 cents to $3.76 at 4 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Shares of the  Overland
Park , Kansas-based company had slumped 16 percent this year
before today.  The  Justice Department , in a complaint filed today in
federal court in  Washington , said the AT&T deal would
“substantially lessen competition” in the wireless market.
Sprint Chief Executive Officer  Dan Hesse  has been lobbying U.S.
regulators to block the acquisition for being anti-competitive,
and has made regular trips to Washington since the deal was
announced in March.  The Justice Department’s decision is a “victory” for
Sprint, according to  Steve Clement , an analyst at Pacific Crest
Securities Inc. in Portland, Oregon. If a deal with AT&T is
barred, it may allow Sprint to merge with T-Mobile, said
Clement, who has an “outperform” rating on Sprint shares.  “They’re both sub-scale relative to the big guys, so it
makes sense to find a way to get together and extract the
synergies you’d get longer-term,” Clement said in an interview.  The U.S. is seeking a declaration that AT&T’s takeover of
T-Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , would violate U.S.
antitrust law and a court order blocking any arrangement
implementing the transaction.  Competitive Pricing  If T-Mobile and AT&T were to combine, the new company would
surpass Verizon Wireless as the largest wireless provider in the
U.S. AT&T is the second largest mobile-phone carrier by total
number of customers, and T-Mobile is fourth.  Sprint filed a 377-page petition with the Federal
Communications Commission on May 31 asking regulators to reject
the deal on grounds that it would decrease competition and raise
consumer prices. Sprint has said it would struggle to offer
competitive pricing and cutting-edge technology if the proposed
acquisition is completed.  AT&T said a deal would help consumers by allowing the
Dallas-based company to expand its 4G network, invest in new
technology and add thousands of U.S. jobs. AT&T plans to
“vigorously contest” the Department of Justice’s decision in
court, the company said today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net  