-- 
Katia May Grow Into Atlantic Hurricane Today

-- B y   C o n o r   S u l l i v a n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-08-31T18:24:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/storm-katia-may-become-atlantic-hurricane.html
Tropical Storm Katia may be declared
a hurricane today, according to the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said.  Katia, about 1,100 miles (1,770 kilometers) from the
southernmost Cape Verde Islands, has 65-mph winds and is
speeding west-northwest at 21 mph, the NHC said in  an advisory 
at about 10:40 a.m. East Coast time. A tropical storm becomes a
hurricane when its winds reach 74 mph. Katia’s winds increased
20 mph yesterday.  The storm is moving on a path that will take it to waters
northeast of  Puerto Rico  on Sept. 4, according to an NHC
 projection . By that time, it may reach the 111-mph threshold for
a major hurricane, the NHC said.  Katia is the 11th named storm of this  Atlantic hurricane
season , which runs from June 1 to Nov. 30. The NHC says the
average hurricane season usually produces that many in total.  A large weather system over the northwest Caribbean has a
30 percent chance of organizing into a tropical system in the
next two days, according to the hurricane center. There is
“some potential” for the for the system to develop over the
central or western Gulf of  Mexico  by week’s end, the center said
in an advisory shortly before 2 p.m. Eastern time.  Gulf Threat  “While plenty of pieces still need to fall into place,
there is a clear risk to oil and gas production evolving within
the  Gulf of Mexico ,” Bob Haas, weather operations manager and
meteorologist at  MDA EarthSat Weather  of Gaithersburg,  Maryland ,
said in an e-mailed statement today. “An intense storm with
long-lasting impacts does not appear to be in the cards.”  The Gulf is home to 31 percent of U.S. oil output and 7
percent of natural gas production.  In the Pacific off Mexico, a tropical depression formed
today south of the resort of Zihuatanejo and moved ashore a few
hours later. A tropical storm watch was issued for an area from
Zihuatanejo to Punta San Telmo.  The system is forecast to dissipate by tomorrow and then
return to the ocean. It probably won’t be able to regenerate,
the center said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Conor Sullivan in London at 
 csullivan39@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  