-- 
Swedish Central Bank to Lower Rates Twice in 2012, Nordea Says

-- B y   J o s i a n e   K r e m e r
-- 
2011-08-31T06:37:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/swedish-central-bank-to-lower-rates-twice-in-2012-nordea-says.html
Sweden ’s central bank will abandon
planned interest rate increases this year and cut borrowing
costs twice next year as faltering economic recoveries in the
U.S. and  Europe  threaten to hurt exports, Nordea Bank AB said.  The Riksbank will cut its benchmark repo rate by half a
percentage point to 1.5 percent within the next twelve months,
Stockholm-based Nordea, the largest Nordic bank, said today in a
report. In the central bank’s July outlook, policy makers
forecast two more rate increases this year and an average repo
rate of 2.9 percent in the third quarter of 2012.  “The current financial market turbulences and the
deteriorating growth outlook suggest that the Riksbank will not
hike the repo rate further this year,” Nordea analyst Torbjoern Isaksson said. “We think that the bank’s next move will be a
rate cut in 2012.”  The Swedish Riksbank last month raised rates for a seventh
time in a year after the economy grew at the fastest pace in
four decades and headline inflation accelerated to above the
bank’s 2 percent target. Growth in Scandinavia’s biggest economy
will slow to 0.8 percent next year from 4.2 percent in 2011 as
exports weaken and unemployment rises, Nordea said.  The central bank can’t ignore the prospect of slower global
growth, Riksbank First Deputy Governor Svante Oeberg said in an
interview last week. Finance Minister Anders Borg last week
slashed the country’s growth forecasts for 2012 to 1.3 percent
from a previous forecast for 3.8 percent growth.  ‘Dangerous New Phase’  Christine Lagarde , managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund , warned last week that the world economy is in a
“dangerous new phase,” adding that “we risk seeing the
fragile recovery derailed.”  The European Union, Sweden’s largest export market, is
struggling to contain a sovereign debt crisis that is nearing
its third year. Sweden’s export growth will slow to 4.1 percent
from an estimated 7.8 percent this year, Nordea said.  The global economic slowdown will also hurt the economies
of Norway, Denmark and  Finland , Nordea said. The bank cut its
growth outlooks for the four Nordic countries.  Norway’s mainland economy, which excludes oil, gas and
shipping, will grow 2.6 percent this year and 2.5 percent next
year, compared with previous forecasts of 3.3 percent and 3.1
percent, Nordea said. The weaker growth outlook will prompt
Norges Bank to keep rates unchanged until August, it said.  Denmark’s economy will expand 1 percent in 2011 and 1.3
percent in 2012, while Finnish output is expected to grow 3.4
percent this year and 1.6 percent next year, Nordea forecasts.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josiane Kremer at 
 jkremer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  