-- 
Swiss Stocks Climb for Fourth Day; Adecco, Clariant Lead Gains

-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 
2011-08-31T16:03:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/swiss-stocks-climb-as-adecco-transocean-logitech-shares-rise.html
Swiss stocks rose for a fourth day
after Federal Reserve minutes showed some U.S. policy makers
wanted to add to economic stimulus measures.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest temporary-staffing company,
rallied the most since March after rival Monster Worldwide Inc.
surged in U.S. trading yesterday.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s
biggest offshore driller, climbed 0.7 percent.  Clariant AG (CLN) , the
maker of chemicals and paints, gained 3.5 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  increased 1.5 percent to 5,528.52 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Zurich, paring the benchmark measure’s
retreat this month to 4.4 percent. The gauge has still tumbled
18 percent from this year’s high on Feb. 18 as a rally in the
Swiss franc curbed exports and concern mounted that the global
economic recovery is stalling. The broader Swiss Performance
Index added 1.6 percent today.  Fed policy makers debated ways to invigorate the recovery
and hiring at their meeting earlier this month, according to
minutes released after European markets closed yesterday. That
potentially lays the groundwork for action at the  Federal Open
Market Committee ’s September gathering. A few members of the
FOMC favored a “more substantial move” at the Aug. 9 meeting
beyond the pledge adopted by the panel to hold  interest rates  at
record lows for the next two years.  “The markets are reacting graciously to the FOMC
minutes,” said Reto Huenerwadel, an economist at UBS AG in
Zurich. “However, before the publication of extremely important
data later this week, markets can still be expected to remain
rather volatile.”  U.S. Employment  A release from ADP Employer Services today in  New York 
showed that companies added 91,000 workers to payrolls this
month. The data came two days before the Labor Department’s
monthly jobs report, which economists forecast will show
payrolls climbed by 70,000 in August after an increase of
117,000 in July.  Separately, a Commerce Department report showed that orders
placed with factories rose 2.4 percent in July. A level above 50
indicates expansion.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Cabinet approved proposed
alterations to the European Financial Stability Facility today.
The changes, which include expanding the EFSF to allow sovereign
bond-buying powers, were agreed on by European leaders at a July
summit. The draft will now go be introduced to the German
parliament on Sept. 5, with lawmakers due to vote on the
measures on Sept. 29.  Adecco, Transocean  Adecco rallied 4.4 percent to 37.63 francs, its biggest
gain since March. The company generated 19 percent of its
revenue from  North America  in 2010. Monster, the world’s largest
online recruiting company, surged 21 percent in U.S. trading
yesterday as investors speculated that additional Fed stimulus
will spur job searches.  Transocean climbed 0.7 percent to 44.78 francs. Buccaneer
Energy Ltd., an oil and gas producer with operations in the  Gulf
of Mexico  and  Texas , agreed to make its largest purchase ever by
buying a shallow-water rig from Transocean for $68.5 million in
an effort to expand its business to offshore Alaska.  Clariant gained 3.5 percent to 9.06 francs as a gauge of
European chemical companies was among the best performers of the
19 industry groups in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP) , the world’s second-largest maker of
elevators, rallied 2.5 percent to 95.75 francs, its highest
price in a month, after Andre Kukhnin, an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG, raised his price estimate for the company’s
shares to 110 francs from 90 francs and reiterated his
“outperform” rating.  “We believe Schindler has a number of defensive growth
characteristics, which should be attractive to investors in the
current uncertain market environment,” Kukhnin wrote in a note
to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  