-- 
Switzerland’s Government Pledges $1.1 Billion to Counter Franc’s Strength

-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e   a n d   L e i g h   B a l d w i n
-- 
2011-08-31T15:29:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/switzerland-s-government-pledges-1-1-billion-to-counter-franc-s-strength.html
The Swiss government plans to spend
870 million francs ($1.1 billion) as part of an economic
stimulus package to help counter the impact of the franc’s
“massive overvaluation.”  The measures aim to support tourism and exports and
preserve jobs, the government said in an e-mailed  statement  from
Bern today. The ruling coalition had initially said it plans to
spend as much as 2 billion francs. The parliament will discuss
the package next month.  “The package supports the Swiss economy in an
extraordinary situation,” Economy Minister Johann Schneider- Ammann said at a briefing. “We’ll probably have to live with
the strong franc for a longer period of time.”  The franc’s 7.5 percent ascent versus the euro this year to
a record 1.0075 on Aug. 9 is threatening to choke the country’s
exports just as the risk of a recession in  Europe  is rising. The
Swiss central bank lowered borrowing costs to zero earlier this
month and boosted liquidity to the money market to help weaken
the currency and protect the economy.  The franc rallied from near a five-week low versus the
dollar, trading at 80.30 centimes at 5:26 p.m. in Zurich. It was
at 1.1577 against the euro, up 2.3 percent on the day.  “Today’s announcement was a clear disappointment,”
Christian Gattiker, an analyst at  Julius Baer Group Ltd (BAER) , said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television from Zurich. “This is
pretty lukewarm in terms of the Swiss economy.”  ‘Any Illusion’  While the currency has weakened about 4 percent against the
euro over the past month, Schneider-Ammann said that it’s
important not to “give in to any illusion.”  “The situation hasn’t calmed down,” he said. “Volatility
remains high.”  The Swiss economy may struggle to gather strength as
cooling global demand adds to export pressures. In the 17-member
euro region, the country’s largest export market, economic
growth slowed to 0.2 percent in the second quarter, the worst
performance since a recession in 2009.  Holcim Ltd. (HOLN) , the world’s second-largest cement maker based
in Jona,  Switzerland , said last month that profit may not grow
this year as U.S. markets will remain “flat” and demand for
construction from European governments was “subdued.”  Schneider-Ammann said the government doesn’t have an
estimate for a franc level that’s still considered tolerable to
exporters and the economy.  “It’s an extraordinary situation, which calls for
extraordinary measures,” he said. Still, it’s up to the central
bank to influence the  exchange rate  if needed, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Klaus Wille in Zurich at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net ;
Leigh Baldwin in Zurich at 
 lbaldwin3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Simone Meier at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  