-- 
U.K. Police Said to Want Names From News Corp. Hacker Mulcaire Kept Secret

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T12:13:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/u-k-police-said-to-want-names-from-news-corp-hacker-mulcaire-kept-secret.html
London police will seek to block a
comedian’s lawyer from disclosing which  News Corp . employees
directed private detective  Glenn Mulcaire  to hack into
celebrities’ voice mails, a person familiar with the case said.  Mulcaire, who was jailed in 2007 for hacking mobile-phone
messages while employed by the News of the World tabloid, was
ordered to provide a list of journalists he worked with as part
of a lawsuit filed by actor Stephen Coogan, an alleged victim.
Mulcaire disclosed the names to Coogan’s law firm  Schillings  on
Aug. 26 after he lost an appeals court bid to keep them secret.  “The issue is not that my client requires to keep matters
confidential, but rather that the police require him to,” Sarah Webb, Mulcaire’s lawyer at Payne Hicks Beach in  London , said
yesterday in a statement.  The Metropolitan Police, which is investigating the extent
of hacking by the tabloid, wants a court to order the names kept
secret, according to the person, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to discuss the case publicly.
The list includes names of who at New York-based News Corp.’s
U.K. unit asked Mulcaire to intercept phone messages left for
six public figures, including model  Elle Macpherson .  The Met Police declined to comment.  While 14 arrests were made this year, the only person known
to have worked with Mulcaire is  Clive Goodman , the paper’s
former royal reporter who was also jailed. News Corp. was forced
to abandon its claim the hacking was limited to Mulcaire and
Goodman, who the company called a “rogue” reporter, after
evidence from civil lawsuits by celebrities showed the practice
was more widespread.  Police Bribes  London police opened a new probe in January, leading to the
recent arrests and News Corp.’s decision to close the News of
the World and scrap a planned bid for  British Sky Broadcasting
Group Plc. (BSY)  London police are also probing whether police
officers were paid for news and whether journalists hacked
computers for stories.  The U.K. Court of Appeal backed a High Court ruling that
having the identities of journalists who instructed Mulcaire
could assist Coogan in proving there was a conspiracy at News of
the World and that hacking was done on an “industrial scale.”  Mulcaire argued unsuccessfully the identities weren’t
relevant since he has already admitted the privacy breaches.  The order applies to the celebrities whose phones Mulcaire
tapped when he pleaded guilty to hacking in November 2006,
including Macpherson and celebrity publicist  Max Clifford .
Mulcaire also pleaded guilty to conspiring to hack the phones of
three members of the royal household.  Brooks, Coulson  Those arrested this year include former News of the World
editors Rebekah Brooks and  Andy Coulson , former managing editor
Stuart Kuttner, former assistant editor Greg Miskiw, former news
editor Ian Edmondson, former features writer Dan Evans and
former chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck.  In January 2007, when Mulcaire was sentenced to six months
in jail, his lawyer told the court voice mails left for people
other than the royal family hadn’t been intercepted for Goodman,
“but for others in the same organization,” according to court
records in the case.  Mulcaire sued News Corp.’s U.K. newspaper unit earlier this
month claiming a breach of contract because the company stopped
paying his legal bills, according to a person familiar with that
case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  