-- 
FDA May Classify Surgical Mesh Devices for Failing Organs as High Risk

-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 
2011-08-31T15:34:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/u-s-may-classify-surgical-mesh-devices-as-high-risk-fda-says.html
Johnson & Johnson,  Boston Scientific
Corp. (BSX)  and other makers of surgical mesh may have to submit added
safety data to regulators to keep their products on the market
under a Food and Drug Administration staff recommendation.  The transvaginally implanted products fail to lead to
better outcomes than non-mesh repair and should be reclassified
as posing a high risk to patients, according to a  report 
released today. Patient advocates are demanding a recall of the
devices, now classified as moderate risk, and the FDA’s outside
advisers will examine the issue next week.  The devices were approved through a streamlined process
called 510(k) that is used to evaluate products similar to those
already cleared and itself is under an agency review. The U.S.
Institute of Medicine cited flaws with surgical mesh in July
when it urged the FDA to abandon the process and require makers
to prove each product is safe and effective on its own merits.
The FDA is soliciting comment on the recommendation.  Mesh products “may expose patients to greater risk” than
traditional repairs without mesh, FDA staff said in the
documents, adding they have “not seen conclusive evidence” of
improved clinical outcomes with the devices.  The agency received 1,503  reports  of complications
associated with the material from January 2008 to December 2010
when used for pelvic organ prolapse, the FDA said in a safety
warning July 13. The devices were used in 75,000 transvaginal
surgeries last year, according to the FDA.  Patient Advisory  The agency advised patients to be aware of risks including
mesh erosion, pain and urinary incontinence, and to have annual
check-ups after surgery. The FDA said it has cleared 85 surgical
mesh devices to treat pelvic organ prolapse from 1992 and 2010.  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , and
Boston Scientific of Natick,  Massachusetts , didn’t immediately
respond to requests for comment.  Consumer advocacy group  Public Citizen , based in
Washington, said Aug. 25 that the mesh devices should be
recalled and reclassified.  A change in risk classification may take several years to
complete and the agency said it could consider a grace period
for makers of products on the market to submit data to comply
with a more stringent review. The agency may require companies
to conduct post market studies that could be designed to support
future submissions to comply with the new process.  The devices are used in surgeries to address prolapsed
organs and incontinence. About 300,000 women underwent surgical
procedures last year to repair prolapsed organs, FDA data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in  Washington  at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Walsh at 
 swalsh@bloomberg.net  