-- 
U.S. Metropolitan Area Employment Report for July (Text)

-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 
2011-08-31T14:09:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/u-s-metropolitan-area-employment-report-for-july-text-.html
The following is the text of the U.S.
metropolitan area employment report for July released by the  METROPOLITAN AREA EMPLOYMENT AND UNEMPLOYMENT -- JULY 2011  Unemployment rates were lower in July than a year earlier in 257
of the 372 metropolitan areas, higher in 94 areas, and unchanged
in 21 areas, the  U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today.
Twelve areas recorded jobless rates of at least 15.0 percent,
while ten areas registered rates of less than 5.0 percent. Two
hundred thirty-two metropolitan areas reported over-the-year
increases in nonfarm payroll employment, 133 reported decreases,
and 7 had no change. The national unemployment rate in July was
9.3 percent, not seasonally adjusted, down from 9.7 percent a
year earlier.  Metropolitan Area Unemployment (Not Seasonally Adjusted)  In July, 117 metropolitan areas reported jobless rates of at
least 10.0 percent, down from 127 areas a year earlier, while 62
areas posted rates below 7.0 percent, up from 54 areas in July
2010. El Centro, Calif., and Yuma, Ariz., recorded the highest
unemployment rates in July 2011, 30.8 and 30.0 percent,
respectively. All of the remaining 10 areas with jobless rates
of at least 15.0 percent were located in  California . Bismarck,
N.D., registered the lowest unemployment rate, 3.0 percent. The
areas with the next lowest rates were Fargo, N.D.-Minn., and
Lincoln, Neb., 3.7 and 3.8 percent, respectively. Of the 10
areas with jobless rates of less than 5.0 percent, 8 were
located in the West North Central census division. A total of
219 areas recorded July unemployment rates below the U.S. figure
of 9.3 percent, 150 areas reported rates above it, and 3 areas
had rates equal to that of the nation.  The largest over-the-year unemployment rate decrease in July was
registered in Rockford, Ill. (-3.3 percentage points), followed
by Steubenville-Weirton, Ohio-W.Va. (-3.0 points). An additional
14 areas recorded jobless rate decreases of at least 2.0
percentage points. Pascagoula, Miss., reported the largest over-
the-year jobless rate increase (+1.9 percentage points). Eight
additional areas had increases of at least a full percentage
point from a year earlier.  In the 49 metropolitan areas with a Census 2000 population of 1
million or more, the highest unemployment rate in July was
registered in Riverside-San Bernardino-Ontario, Calif., 14.7
percent. Sixteen additional large areas posted rates of 10.0
percent or more. The lowest jobless rate among the large areas
was recorded in  Oklahoma City , Okla., 5.5 percent, followed by
Washington-Arlington-Alexandria, D.C.-Va.-Md.-W.Va., 6.0 percent.
Forty of the large areas reported over-the-year unemployment
rate decreases, while seven areas registered rate increases and
two had no change. Las Vegas-Paradise, Nev., experienced the
largest unemployment rate decrease from July 2010 (-1.7
percentage points). Nine other large areas reported rate
decreases of at least 1.0 percentage point. The large area with
the largest over-the-year jobless rate increase was San Antonio-
New Braunfels, Texas (+0.6 percentage point).  Metropolitan Division Unemployment (Not Seasonally Adjusted)  Eleven of the most populous metropolitan areas are made up of 34
metropolitan divisions, which are essentially separately
identifiable employment centers. In July 2011, Detroit-Livonia-
Dearborn, Mich., registered the highest jobless rate among the
divisions, 15.7 percent. Bethesda-Rockville-Frederick, Md., and
Nashua, N.H.-Mass., reported the lowest division rates, 5.6
percent each.  Twenty-eight of the metropolitan divisions recorded over-the-
year jobless rate decreases in July, three registered increases,
and three had no change. Lake County-Kenosha County, Ill.-Wis.,
posted the largest rate decline from a year earlier (-1.4
percentage points). No division experienced a rate increase
greater than 0.2 percentage point over the year.  In 6 of the 11 metropolitan areas that contain divisions, the
ranges between the highest and lowest division jobless rates
were 2.0 percentage points or more in July. Boston-Cambridge-
Quincy, Mass.-N.H., recorded the largest rate difference among
its divisions, 6.0 percentage points (Lawrence-Methuen-Salem,
Mass.-N.H., 11.6 percent, compared with Nashua, N.H.-Mass., 5.6
percent).  Metropolitan Area Nonfarm Employment (Not Seasonally Adjusted)  In July, 232 metropolitan areas reported over-the-year increases
in nonfarm payroll employment, 133 reported decreases, and 7 had
no change. The largest over-the-year employment increase
occurred in New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island, N.Y.-N.J.-
Pa. (+71,700), followed by Dallas-Fort Worth-Arlington,  Texas 
(+65,400), Houston-Sugar Land-Baytown, Texas (+65,100), and
Boston-Cambridge-Quincy, Mass.-N.H. (+60,100). The largest over-
the-year percentage gain in employment was reported in Sandusky,
 Ohio  (+9.9 percent), followed by  Manhattan , Kan. (+8.1 percent),
Hot Springs, Ark. (+8.0 percent), and Steubenville-Weirton,
Ohio-W.Va. (+6.4 percent).  The largest over-the-year decreases in employment occurred in
Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Marietta, Ga. (-28,800), Richmond, Va. (-
10,400), Indianapolis-Carmel, Ind. (-9,100), and Washington-
Arlington-Alexandria, D.C.-Va.-Md.-W.Va. (-7,900). The largest
over-the-year percentage decreases in employment were reported
in Pascagoula, Miss. (-5.5 percent),  Battle Creek , Mich. (-4.7
percent), and Abilene, Texas, and Anderson, Ind. (-4.3 percent
each).  Over the year, nonfarm employment rose in 27 of the 36
metropolitan areas with annual average employment levels above
750,000 in 2010. The largest over-the-year percentage increases
in employment in these large metropolitan areas were posted in
San Jose-Sunnyvale-Santa Clara, Calif. (+3.5 percent), Houston-
Sugar Land-Baytown, Texas (+2.6 percent), Boston-Cambridge-
Quincy, Mass.-N.H. (+2.5 percent), and Dallas-Fort Worth-
Arlington, Texas, and Milwaukee-Waukesha-West Allis, Wis. (+2.3
percent each). The largest over-the-year percentage decreases in
employment occurred in Atlanta-Sandy Springs-Marietta, Ga. (-1.3
percent), Indianapolis-Carmel, Ind. (-1.0 percent), Sacramento--
Arden-Arcade--Roseville, Calif. (-0.8 percent), and  Kansas City ,
Mo.-Kan. (-0.5 percent).  Metropolitan Division Nonfarm Employment (Not Seasonally
Adjusted)  Nonfarm payroll employment data were available in July 2011 for
32 metropolitan divisions, which are essentially separately
identifiable employment centers within a metropolitan area.
Twenty-three of the 32 metropolitan divisions reported over-the-
year employment gains, while 9 reported losses. The largest
over-the-year increase in the metropolitan divisions occurred in
New York-White Plains-Wayne, N.Y.-N.J. (+90,700), followed by
Dallas-Plano-Irving, Texas (+47,300), Boston-Cambridge-Quincy,
Mass. (+39,400), Chicago-Joliet-Naperville, Ill. (+31,600), and
Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, Wash. (+31,000). The largest over-the-
year decreases in the metropolitan divisions were in Edison-New
Brunswick, N.J. (-13,600), Washington-Arlington-Alexandria,
D.C.-Va.-Md.-W.Va. (-9,000), Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y. (-7,800), and
Gary, Ind. (-6,500).  The largest over-the-year percentage increases in employment
among the metropolitan divisions were reported in Boston-
Cambridge-Quincy, Mass., and Lowell-Billerica-Chelmsford, Mass.-
N.H. (+2.4 percent each), Dallas-Plano-Irving, Texas (+2.3
percent), and Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, Wash. (+2.2 percent).
The largest over-the-year percentage decreases in employment
were in Gary, Ind. (-2.5 percent), Wilmington, Del.-Md.-N.J. (-
1.8 percent), Edison-New Brunswick, N.J. (-1.4 percent), and
Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y. (-0.6 percent).  ____________
The Regional and State Employment and Unemployment news release
for August is scheduled to be released on Friday, September 16,
2011, at 10:00 a.m. (EDT). The Metropolitan Area Employment and
Unemployment news release for August is scheduled to be released
on Wednesday, September 28, 2011, at 10:00 a.m. (EDT).  Technical Note  This release presents  labor force  and unemployment data from the
Local Area Unemployment Statistics (LAUS) program for 372
metropolitan statistical areas and metropolitan New England City
and Town Areas (NECTAs), plus 8 areas in  Puerto Rico .  Estimates
for 34 metropolitan and NECTA divisions also are presented.
Nonfarm payroll employment estimates from the Current Employment
Statistics (CES) program are provided for most of the same areas.
State estimates were previously published in the news release,
Regional and State Employment and Unemployment, and are
republished in this release for ease of reference. The LAUS and
CES programs are both federal-state cooperative endeavors.  Labor force and unemployment--from the LAUS program  Definitions.  The labor force and unemployment data are based on
the same concepts and definitions as those used for the official
national estimates obtained from the Current Population Survey
(CPS), a sample survey of households that is conducted for the
Bureau of Labor Statistics (BLS) by the U.S. Census Bureau.  The
LAUS program measures employment and unemployment on a place-of-
residence basis.  The universe for each is the civilian
noninstitutional population 16 years of age and over.  Employed
persons are those who did any work at all for pay or profit in
the reference week (the week including the 12th of the month) or
worked 15 hours or more without pay in a family business or farm,
plus those not working who had a job from which they were
temporarily absent, whether or not paid, for such reasons as
labor-management dispute, illness, or vacation.  Unemployed
persons are those who were not employed during the reference
week (based on the definition above), had actively looked for a
job sometime in the 4-week period ending with the reference week,
and were currently available for work; persons on layoff
expecting recall need not be looking for work to be counted as
unemployed.  The labor force is the sum of employed and
unemployed persons.  The unemployment rate is the number of
unemployed as a per-cent of the labor force.  Method of estimation.  Estimates for states, the  District of
Columbia , the Los Angeles-Long Beach-Glendale metropolitan
division, and  New York City  are produced using time-series
models with real-time benchmarking to national CPS totals.
Model-based estimation was extended to the following areas and
their respective balances of state in 2005:  the Chicago-Joliet-
Naperville, IL Metropolitan Division; Cleveland-Elyria-Mentor,
OH Metropolitan Statistical Area; Detroit-Warren-Livonia, MI
Metropolitan Statistical Area; Miami-Miami Beach-Kendall, FL
Metropolitan Division; New Orleans-Metairie-Kenner, LA
Metropolitan Statistical Area; and Seattle-Bellevue-Everett, WA
Metropolitan Division.  (Model-based estimation of the New
Orleans-Metairie-Kenner metropolitan area was suspended
following  Hurricane Katrina ; the indirect estimation methods
described below will be used for this area until further
notice.)  Modeling improves the statistical basis of the
estimation for these areas and provides important tools for
analysis, such as measures of errors and seasonally adjusted
series. For all other substate areas in this release, estimates
are prepared through indirect estimation procedures using a
building-block approach. Employment estimates, which are based
largely on “place of work” estimates from the CES program, are
adjusted to refer to place of residence as used in the CPS.
Unemployment estimates are aggregates of persons previously
employed in industries covered by state unemployment insurance
(UI) laws and entrants to the labor force data from the CPS. The
substate estimates of employment and unemployment, which
geographically exhaust the entire state, are adjusted
proportionally to ensure that they add to the independently
estimated state or balance-of-state totals.  A detailed
description of the estimation procedures is avail-able from BLS
upon request.  Annual revisions.  Labor force and unemployment data shown for
the prior year reflect adjustments made at the end of each year,
usually implemented with January estimates.  The adjusted model-
based estimates reflect updated population data from the U.S.
Census Bureau, any revisions in the other data sources, and
model reestimation.  All substate estimates are reestimated and
adjusted to add to the revised model-based estimates.  Employment--from the CES program  Definitions.  Employment data refer to persons on establishment
payrolls who receive pay for any part of the pay period that
includes the 12th of the month.  Persons are counted at their
place of work rather than at their place of residence; those
appearing on more than one payroll are counted on each payroll.
Industries are classified on the basis of their principal
activity in accordance with the 2007 version of the North
American Industry Classification System.  Method of estimation.  The employment data are estimated using a
“link relative” technique in which a ratio (link relative) of
current-month employment to that of the previous month is
computed from a sample of establishments reporting for both
months.  The estimates of employment for the current month are
obtained by multiplying the estimates for the previous month by
these ratios.  Small-domain models are used as the official
estimators for the approximately 39 percent of CES published
series which have insufficient sample for direct sample-based
estimates.  Annual revisions.  Employment estimates are adjusted annually to
a complete count of jobs, called benchmarks, derived principally
from tax reports that are submitted by employers who are covered
under state un-employment insurance (UI) laws.  The benchmark
information is used to adjust the monthly estimates between the
new benchmark and the preceding one and also to establish the
level of employment for the new benchmark month.  Thus, the
benchmarking process establishes the level of employment, and
the sample is used to measure the month-to-month changes in the
level for the subsequent months.  Reliability of the estimates  The estimates presented in this release are based on sample
surveys, administrative data, and modeling and, thus, are
subject to sampling and other types of errors.  Sampling error
is a measure of sampling variability--that is, variation that
occurs by chance because a sample rather than the entire
population is surveyed.  Survey data also are subject to
nonsampling errors, such as those which can be introduced into
the data collection and processing operations.  Estimates not
directly derived from sample surveys are subject to additional
errors resulting from the particular estimation processes used.
The sums of individual items may not always equal the totals
shown in the same tables because of rounding.  Unemployment
rates are computed from un-rounded data and thus may differ
slightly from rates computed using the rounded data displayed in
the tables.  Labor force and unemployment estimates.  Model-based error
measures are available for states on the Internet at
www.bls.gov/lau/lastderr.htm. Measures of nonsampling error are
not available, but additional information on the subject is
provided in Employment and Earnings Online at
www.bls.gov/opub/ee/home.htm.  Employment estimates.  Measures of sampling error for state CES
data at the supersector level and for metropolitan area CES data
at the total nonfarm level are available online at
www.bls.gov/sae/790stderr.htm. Information on recent benchmark
revisions for states is available on the BLS Web site at
www.bls.gov/sae/.  Additional information  More complete information on the technical procedures used to
develop these estimates and additional data appear in Employment
and Earnings Online.  Estimates of unadjusted and seasonally adjusted labor force and
unemployment data for states, census regions and divisions, and
seven substate areas are available in the news release, Regional
and State Employment and Unemployment.  Estimates of labor force
and unemployment for all states, metropolitan areas, labor
market areas, counties, cities with a population of 25,000 or
more, and other areas used in the admini-stration of various
federal economic assistance programs are available on the
Internet at www.bls.gov/lau/.  Employment data from the CES
program are available on the BLS Web site at www.bls.gov/sae/. 