-- 
S&P 500 Caps Best Eight-Day Gain Since 2009 on Economy Optimism

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-08-31T20:27:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/u-s-stock-index-futures-stage-gain-exxon-advances-after-rosneft-accord.html
U.S. stocks rose, capping the best
eight-day gain since 2009 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index,
as speculation the economy will keep expanding overshadowed a
tumble in  AT&T Inc. (T)  following a government antitrust lawsuit.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Alcoa Inc. gained at least 2.3 percent
as companies most-tied to economic growth rallied.  Joy Global
Inc. (JOYG)  added 1.3 percent after the maker of mining equipment
forecast earnings that beat analysts’ estimates. AT&T tumbled
3.9 percent, limiting the market’s gain, as the U.S. government
sued to prevent its planned purchase of T-Mobile USA Inc.,
saying the deal would curb competition in the wireless market.  The S&P 500 rose 0.5 percent to 1,218.89 at 4 p.m. in New
York, after climbing 1.5 percent earlier. The benchmark gauge
surged 8.5 percent since Aug. 19 while still completing a fourth
straight monthly loss, the longest slump since March 2008. The
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  added 53.58 points, or 0.5 percent,
to 11,613.53 today, erasing its year-to-date decline.  “People want to nibble because if we avert a recession
stocks would appear to be cheap,” Mark Luschini, chief
investment strategist at Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC, which manages $54 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “At the same time, given the overall levels of
volatility, you know you can wake up and the market is easy up
or down 300 points. Part of that uncertainty is that investors
are dealing with the heavy hand of government intervention
infusing itself in the capital markets.”  Economic Data  Stocks advanced after reports showed U.S. business activity
and factory orders expanded at a faster pace than economists
forecast. The  S&P 500  pared its August decline to 5.7 percent,
still the biggest monthly retreat since May 2010. U.S. equities
rose yesterday after the  Federal Reserve  said some policy makers
wanted to take more action to stimulate the economy during their
meeting this month.  “The economy is not falling off a cliff, and at the same
time, policy makers are aware that growth is slow and they are
prepared to do something to accelerate it,”  Peter Jankovskis ,
who helps manage about $2.6 billion at Oakbrook Investments in
Lisle,  Illinois , said in a telephone interview. “Much of the
selling that we’ve experienced was overdone and left the market
poised for a rally when sentiment began to change.”  The S&P 500 slid 16 percent between July 22 and Aug. 19
after the U.S. government lost its AAA rating at S&P and
investors speculated the European debt crisis was intensifying.
The index has rallied 8.9 percent since Aug. 8 after the S&P 500
traded at 12.2 times earnings, the lowest level since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Based on My Numbers’  Earlier today, benchmark gauges pared gains after  Nouriel Roubini , co-founder and chairman of Roubini Global Economics
LLC, said “we’re going into a recession based on my numbers”
while the Federal Reserve and other authorities no longer have
the ability to provide emergency support.  “We have reached stall speed in the economy,” Roubini
said in an interview today on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness with Margaret Brennan.” “Unfortunately we are
running out of policy tools” in the U.S. and European
governments no longer have the resources to bail out their
troubled banks, said Roubini, also a professor at New York
University’s Stern School of Business.  This year, numbers on the economy will “come out worse and
worse and worse” and the “markets are going to fizzle out,”
Roubini said.  The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index of companies whose
earnings are most-dependent on economic growth rallied 0.7
percent. Ford gained 2.3 percent to $11.12. Alcoa rose the most
in the Dow, gaining 3.6 percent to $12.80.  Joy Global  Rallies  Joy Global advanced 1.3 percent to $83.45. The maker of P&H
and Joy mining equipment lifted its earnings forecast in 2011 to
as much as $6 a share, exceeding the average analyst estimate of
$5.72, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AT&T slumped 3.9 percent to $28.48. The U.S. government
said its purchase of T-Mobile would “substantially lessen
competition” in the wireless industry. The purchase would
combine the second- and fourth-largest mobile-phone carriers in
the country, surpassing No. 1  Verizon Wireless .  Verizon
Communications Inc. (VZ) , which co-owns the biggest operator with
Vodafone Group Plc, fell 0.4 percent to $36.17.  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  advanced 5.9 percent to $3.76.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson’s proposed
purchase of Bellevue, Washington-based T-Mobile, announced in
March, would combine the second- and fourth-largest carriers to
create a new market leader ahead of No. 1 Verizon Wireless. The
new company would dwarf current No. 3 carrier Sprint Nextel,
which argued against the deal.  Ending Battle  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  sank 7.5 percent to $6.96.
Billionaire  Carl Icahn  agreed to sell his  Lions Gate  shares for
$7 each, roughly his cost, to end a battle for control over the
independent film and television studio. The parties also agreed
to end all litigation, according to a statement issued yesterday
by Icahn and Lions Gate, the studio behind the “Saw” movies
and “Mad Men” TV show.  Pessimism about U.S. stocks among newsletter writers
increased to a one-year high, a bullish signal to analysts who
track investor sentiment as a contrarian indicator of equity
performance. The share of bearish publications among those
tracked by Investors Intelligence rose to 36.6 percent
yesterday, the highest since August 2010, from 33.3 percent a
week earlier.  “The stock market is poised for a rebound if data begins
to be more encouraging,” Marshall Front, who helps oversee $600
million as chairman of Front Barnett Associates LLC in  Chicago ,
said in an interview. “Stocks have gotten to a point where they
are discounting a degree of slowness in the economy that is not
likely to evolve.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  New York  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  