-- 
U.S. Women Warriors Sent to Battle With Armor, Equipment Designed for Men

-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-31T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/u-s-women-warriors-sent-to-battle-with-armor-equipment-designed-for-men.html
Former U.S. Army Sergeant Rebekah
Havrilla, who dismantled roadside bombs in  Afghanistan ,
remembers the pain she endured wearing body armor designed to
fit a man.  “It can actually be painful because of the way the plates
are shaped,” said Havrilla, who spent a year in Afghanistan in
late 2006 and 2007. “When you’re laying down, it was even more
restrictive. Trying to get that arm into a shooting position was
slightly challenging.”  Nor is it easy to maneuver in baggy, man-tailored combat
fatigues that require women to tuck and pull excess fabric, said
Army reservist Genevieve Chase, another Afghanistan veteran.  “I can’t tell you how uncomfortable it is to walk
around,” Chase said. “They’re so bulky and they’re not fitted
properly.”  About 271,000 women have served in the Afghanistan and  Iraq 
wars over the past decade, making up almost 12 percent of the
force, the  Defense Department  estimated. As a growing number are
exposed to combat, women warriors pose new challenges for a
military now more than 15 percent female.  In a  2009 survey , most troops of both genders said the
equipment used by women in war zones “was inadequate in some
capacity,” according to a report by the  Defense Advisory
Committee on Women in the Services . Among the problems, the
survey found, were “poor quality or outdated equipment, lack of
necessary equipment, tardy issue of equipment, and equipment not
sized or designed for women.”  Mixed Results  Two years later, the military’s effort to remedy
shortcomings has moved slowly and with mixed results, said Lory
Manning, a retired Navy captain who leads the Women in the
Military Project at the  Women’s Research and Education
Institute , a non-profit women’s advocacy group.  “There’s much more that could be done,” Manning said.  For example, soldiers’ backpacks, which can weigh 60 pounds
or more, could be altered for women so that more of the weight
is carried on the hips and lower body instead of the shoulders,
she said.  While the Army has made strides in some areas, it has
acknowledged that work remains to be done. There is still no
plan to issue body armor tailored for women. The Army is doing
long-term research on the issue.  “The physics associated with trying to have the body armor
work in a complex shape is just a bridge too far right now,”
Army Major General Peter Fuller told a House Armed Services
subcommittee in March, when he led the Army’s Program Executive
Office for soldiers’ equipment.  ‘Not a Priority’  “It’s not a priority issue for the Army, in the grand
scheme of things,” said Havrilla, the former Army sergeant.  In other ways, the military is making strides toward  gender
equality .  The Army has spent about $620,000 since 2009 to develop its
first combat uniform for women, with shorter sleeves, lowered
pockets, a shortened button fly and an elastic waistband to
accommodate women’s hips, said Army spokeswoman Staci-Jill
Burnley.  “It fits me,” said Army Major Sequana Robinson, assistant
product manager for soldier clothing at the Program Executive
Office. “I can just put it on and I don’t have to worry about
extra tucking because there’s less material there.  It makes
females feel more professional about what they’re doing.”  Of more than 600 women who tried it, 98 percent said it was
a good fit, said Kelly Fratelli, a textile technologist at the
Army’s  Soldier Research, Development and Engineering Center  in
Natick,  Massachusetts .  Standard Attire  The uniform, if approved, could become standard female
soldier attire as early as 2013, said David Geringer, deputy
product manager for the Army office that provides soldiers’
clothing and equipment.  Expanding roles for women bring challenges well beyond
tailoring. The Navy submarine -- long an all-male bastion --will
begin going co-ed later this year, albeit modestly.  Ten female junior officers are completing nuclear training
and will begin serving on ballistic-missile submarines in
November, said Commander Monica Rousslow, a spokeswoman for
 Submarine Forces Atlantic  in Norfolk, Virginia.  The next step, adding female enlisted crew members, would
require redesigned living quarters. Officers have private rooms,
while enlisted personnel don’t.  In December, then-Defense Secretary  Robert Gates  told
Congress the Navy planned to begin design studies “to
reconfigure existing submarines to accommodate female crew
members.”  Study on Submarines  A study on reconfiguring Virginia-class attack submarines
is to be completed by mid-2012, said Alan Baribeau, a spokesman
for the  Naval Sea Systems Command . New missile submarines will
be built with women’s quarters, he said.  Still, even simple things, such as urinating during a
mission, remain a source of frustration for female warriors.  Air National Guard Master Sergeant Irene Schwaninger
recalls female colleagues practicing “strategic dehydration”:
abstaining from liquids to avoid having to use urinals on
privacy-deprived C-130 cargo planes during flights to Iraq.  “Guys can discreetly do what they need to do,”
Schwaninger said. “Unfortunately, we don’t have that luxury.”  Years later, Schwaninger found a solution in the P-Mate, a
disposable, cone-shaped cardboard device that lets a woman
urinate while standing up. The military doesn’t generally issue
the product, which sells for about $5 for a pack of five.  No Requirement  “That comes up from time to time, but we’ve received no
requirement to field a female urinary device,” the Army’s
Geringer said.  “I don’t think the military to date has been very
supportive of meeting the unique needs of women,” said Karen
Diamond, owner of Broomfield, Colorado-based  Go Your Way Inc. ,
the maker of P-Mate. “It becomes a safety and health issue.”  The  Army and Air Force Exchange Service , which has sold the
product for several years, soon will phase the P-Mate out of its
stores.  “The demand just wasn’t there,” said Exchange Service
spokesman Chris Ward.  Manning, the retired Navy captain, said she can imagine
why. “Not enough people know about them to ask for them,” she
said. “I think most of the women probably don’t even know they
exist. And if they’re men, it’s not a problem for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 Dlerman1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 