-- 
U.S. Business Activity Falls Less Than Estimated, ISM-Chicago Index Shows

-- B y   A l e x   K o w a l s k i
-- 
2011-08-31T14:52:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/u-s-business-activity-falls-less-than-estimated-ism-chicago-index-shows.html
Business activity in the U.S.
expanded in August at a faster pace than forecast, allaying
concern that manufacturing was slumping.  The Institute for Supply Management-Chicago Inc. said today
its business barometer fell to 56.5 this month, exceeding the
highest estimate of 51 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News,
from 58.8 in July. A level of 50 is the dividing line between
expansion and contraction. Another report showed companies added
fewer workers to payrolls in August.  Cheaper raw materials and the unwinding of auto-supply
disruptions related to  Japan ’s natural disaster have helped
manufacturers expand even as global demand for U.S.-made goods
slows. The report was in contrast to regional readings from
Philadelphia and  New York  earlier this month that showed
factories pulled back as stocks plunged on growing concern over
the European credit crisis and the  U.S. debt  downgrade.  “The softening in manufacturing that we’ve seen occur in
the last month or two is certainly not as drastic as was
feared,” said  Omair Sharif , an economist at RBS Securities LLC
in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The Chicago area is being held up to
some degree by the recovery in the auto sector.”  Stocks added to earlier gains after the report. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.1 percent to 1,226.03 at
10:50 a.m. in New York.  Treasury securities  were little changed
with the yield on the benchmark 10-year note at 2.19 percent
compared with 2.18 percent late yesterday.  Survey Results  Economists forecast the Chicago gauge would drop to 53.3,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.
Projections for the Chicago index from the 51 economists
surveyed ranged from 49 to 56.1. The August reading was the
lowest since November 2009.  Another report today showed companies added 91,000 workers
to payrolls in August, the fewest in three months, according to
data from ADP Employer Services. The increase followed a revised
109,000 gain the prior month.  “The labor market has held up better through this period
than some had feared, but there is no question it remains
sluggish,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise
Financial Inc. in  Detroit , who forecast a gain of 90,000. “We
are still in a period of weak employment conditions that could
weaken a bit further.”  Also today, the Commerce Department reported that orders
placed with factories rose in July by the most in four months,
boosted by demand for motor vehicles and aircraft that more than
made up for a decrease in business equipment.  More Orders  The 2.4 percent increase in bookings exceeded the median
forecast of economists in a Bloomberg survey and followed a
revised 0.4 percent drop in the prior month.  The downgrade of U.S. debt by S&P and fears that one or
more of the countries in the  euro zone  will default triggered a
plunge in stocks earlier this month that caused  consumer
confidence  to sink. That raised concerns that companies will
also pull back, hurting an already slowing U.S. economy.  The Chicago group’s production gauge decreased to 57.8 from
July’s reading of 64.3. The gauge of new orders fell to 56.9
from 59.4. The employment measure climbed to 52.1 from 51.5 the
prior month.  Economists watch the Chicago index and other regional
manufacturing reports for an early reading on the national
outlook. The Chicago group says its membership includes both
manufacturers and service providers with operations in the U.S.
and abroad, making the gauge a measure of overall growth.  National Data  The ISM’s national factory index shrank in August for the
first time since July 2009, according to the median projection
in a Bloomberg survey ahead of tomorrow’s report. Economists
forecast the gauge slid to 48.5 from 50.9 in July. Like the
Chicago survey, a reading greater than 50 signals expansion.  Other regional surveys released this month showed factories
were scaling back as orders plummeted. Manufacturing in the
Philadelphia region contracted in August by the most in more
than two years, and New York-area factories cut back in August
for a third-straight month.  While a weak dollar had provided incentive for overseas
nations to buy American-made goods, a slowing global economy has
raised the risk export growth will cool. Additionally, a lack of
jobs and weakening consumer confidence in the U.S. are reducing
domestic demand.  “There is some uncertainty, so there’s probably been some
ratcheting down of expectations and concern about not building
products that wouldn’t sell,” Martin Slark, vice chairman and
chief executive officer at  Molex Inc. (MOLX) , said in an Aug. 3 call
with analysts. “We believe that this is more of a temporary
slowdown rather than major correction, but I think our external
economic factors are going to drive that.”  To gauge the duration of the slowdown, Slark said the
Lisle, Illinois-based maker of electronic components for
automobiles and computers will need to wait until September to
see “what happens with bookings then or what’s happening to the
sort of macroeconomic environment at that time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexander Kowalski in Washington at 
 akowalski13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 