-- 
U.S., Canada Planning Harmonized Trading Rules Amid Canadians’ Objections

-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/u-s-and-canada-plan-joint-regulations-amid-canadian-objections.html
The U.S. and  Canada  plan to
harmonize regulations governing the most-heavily traded
products, U.S. Ambassador to Canada David Jacobson said, one day
after a report showed some Canadians are uneasy with the idea.  The two countries will release more details over the next
several weeks on the “first tranche” of industries where
conflicting regulations will be harmonized, Jacobson said in an
Aug. 30 interview with Bloomberg News. He didn’t elaborate on
specific products.  “It’s fair to say that we want to focus on areas where
there is more trade, because the more trade that we focus on,
the more jobs that we’re going to create in this process,”
Jacobson said.  The effort will focus on streamlining “dumb” regulations
that are “different because they’re different,” said Jacobson,
59, who took office as ambassador in October 2009.  The move comes as Canada and the U.S. try to build on a
pledge made in February by President  Barack Obama  and Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper  to work toward a shared security
“perimeter,” aimed at protecting against threats such as
terrorism and accelerating the “legitimate” cross-border flow
of people, goods and services.  Jacobson said the countries will soon release an “action
plan” that will provide more details on the proposed measures.  The two countries have the world’s largest two-way trading
relationship, reaching almost C$600 billion ($613 billion) in
2009. Canada’s main merchandise exports to the U.S. are mineral
fuels such as oil, motor vehicles and machinery, while the
biggest exports by the U.S. to Canada are motor vehicles,
machinery and electrical and electronic equipment, according to
government data.  Consultation Reports  Canadian Foreign Affairs Minister  John Baird  released two
 reports  Aug. 29 that summarized consultations with other levels
of government, Canadian businesses, non-governmental
organizations and the public.  A report on potential regulatory cooperation outlines
proposals in industries such as agriculture and food,
environment and energy, transportation, and health and consumer
products.  Proposals in the  auto industry  would implement common rules
for safety and emissions standards. Cooperation on energy may
lead to a “Canada-U.S. regime for permitting oil-and-gas
pipelines,” the report said.  Canada’s customs agency said in June it is looking at ways
to speed inspection of food products that are imported by
companies that qualify as posing little risk.  Opposed to Integration  Many individuals said they were worried about regulatory
harmonization. “Some are absolutely opposed to any further
Canadian integration with the U.S. and expressed concern for the
perceived erosion of Canadian sovereignty, rights and public
accountability,” the report said.  A separate report on a shared perimeter found that business
groups generally supported greater cooperation against security
threats such as terrorism. Some individuals said they were
concerned about the impact that greater sharing of intelligence
and information might have on privacy, civil rights and Canadian
sovereignty, the department reported.  “Those are values that Americans are just as concerned
about as Canadians are,” said Jacobson. “We are approaching
this border-vision, regulatory-cooperation process from both
sides of the border with the most fundamental desire and
instruction not to compromise on sovereignty, not to impinge on
people’s privacy, not to impinge on their individual rights.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 