-- 
U.S. Crackdown on Wasteful War Contractors Urged by Commission

-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 
2011-08-31T19:18:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/u-s-crackdown-on-wasteful-corrupt-war-contractors-urged-by-commission.html
The U.S. government should intensify
its efforts to prohibit wasteful and corrupt companies from
receiving federal contracts in war zones, a commission
authorized by Congress said.  “Suspensions and debarment can be powerful tools to
protect the government’s interests,” said an eight-page summary
of the Commission on Wartime Contracting’s final  report ,
released today.  More than $30 billion has been wasted or lost to fraud from
U.S.-funded Iraq and  Afghanistan  contracts, about one in every
six dollars of the $192.5 billion spent on contracts and grants
from 2002 to 2011, the panel said. The amount of overall
spending will grow to $206 billion by Sept. 30.  The amount of wasteful spending could grow to as much as
$60 billion in Iraq and Afghanistan if their governments fail to
maintain adequate controls on U.S.-started projects, the
commission said.  “Fostering a culture of accountability is especially
difficult in war zones where the contractor community is made up
of U.S., local and third-party nationals, where gathering a
stable of responsible, competitive companies is a challenge,”
the report said. “When agencies fail to suspend contractors
from participating in the federal marketplace despite chronic
misconduct, criminal behavior, or repeated poor performance, the
deterrent threat is lost.”  Call for Crackdown  The report cites the case of the Louis Berger Group, which
in November 2010 “entered into a deferred-prosecution agreement
with the  Department of Justice  after allegations of massive
fraud. USAID did not suspend the firm. Instead, the agency
entered into an administrative agreement which allowed the firm
to continue competing for federal contracts,” the report said.  The call for a crackdown could reinforce legislative
proposals in the pending fiscal 2012 defense policy bill. They
would require any defense contractor to quickly lose funding if
a subcontractor is found to have connections to the Taliban, al-
Qaeda or insurgent groups.  The commission issued 15 recommendations that it said would
improve contractors’ performance and reduce wasteful spending.  They include phasing out the use of private security
contractors in some circumstances; expanding the authority of
military and civilian officials responsible for contingency
contracting; creating a permanent inspector general’s office for
contingency operations; and setting annual goals to increase
competition for wartime contracts.  ‘Procedural Barriers’  The commission recommended the federal government “revise
regulations to lower procedural barriers” for pursuing the
actions and “require a written rationale for not pursing a
proposed suspension or debarment.”  The suspension provisions “will have the most impact on
companies where it has been demonstrated wrong-doing,” the
commission co-chairman Michael Thibault said in an interview.  “Our feeling is if an organization really demonstrates it
cannot operate within the boundaries of the law, the consequence
ought to be greater,” he said. “We believe the appeal process
has bogged the system down so much suspension and debarment is
often ineffective.”  Representative John Tierney, a Massachusetts Democrat, said
in a statement today he will introduce legislation mandating a
permanent inspector general.  Better Access  The panel also recommended increasing staffing and
authority of the Pentagon’s primary oversight units, the  Defense
Contract Management Agency  and Defense Contract Audit Agency, to
ensure better access to contractor records.  The Pentagon on Aug. 16 put into effect one of the
commission’s ideas: authority to withhold contractor payments
for significant deficiencies in any of six primary business
systems.  The commission was established by the fiscal 2008 defense
bill at the insistence of Senate Armed Services Committee
members  James Webb  of  Virginia  and  Claire McCaskill  of  Missouri ,
both Democrats. They remain on the panel, putting them in
position to press its recommendations in the next  defense
budget .  “It is shocking that the commission found such rampant
waste, fraud and abuse,” McCaskill said in a statement
yesterday. “I plan to begin working immediately to implement
their recommendations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  