-- 
U.S. Auto Sales May Stall in August as Confidence Slumped

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-08-31T18:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/u-s-auto-sales-may-have-stalled-in-august-as-confidence-slumped.html
U.S. auto sales failed to rebound in
August as confidence sank and prospects dimmed for faster
economic growth, prompting at least a dozen analysts to lower
estimates for light-vehicle deliveries for this year and next.  August vehicle sales, to be released tomorrow, may have run
at a 12.1 million seasonally adjusted annual rate, the average
estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The pace averaged
12.5 million in the first half before slowing to 12.2 million in
July. The August 2010 sales rate was 11.5 million, according to
Autodata Corp.  Tempered projections for output and job gains led analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg to trim an average of 900,000 car and
light truck sales from their estimates for this year and 2012.
The  U.S. economy  may grow by less than 3 percent through 2013,
helping keep the  unemployment rate  above 8 percent during that
span, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  “We’re going to grow and things are going to continue to
get better, but at even a much slower pace” than before, said
 Jeff Schuster , executive director of global forecasting at J.D.
Power & Associates, which lowered its U.S. auto sales estimates
by 300,000 cars and trucks for 2011 and by 600,000 next year.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s largest automaker, may report an
11 percent decline in deliveries, the average estimate of four
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That would be the fourth
consecutive monthly decline of 10 percent or more following
March’s tsunami and earthquake that disrupted production.  Sales may decline 25 percent at Tokyo-based Honda Motor
Co., the average of four analysts’ estimates. That would be the
fourth straight month where sales slid 20 percent or more.
 General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the largest U.S.
automakers, may report increases of at least 15 percent.  Annual Estimates  Concerns about the economy and financial markets are
further delaying purchases put off during the recession and
early recovery, said Schuster, who is based in Troy, Michigan.
He is among the 12 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg who have cut
their full-year auto-sales estimates since the first quarter.  Deliveries may rise to 12.7 million cars and light trucks
this year, the average of 18 analysts’ estimates. The average
estimate in April was for 2011 sales of 13 million light
vehicles.  Industrywide deliveries may climb to 13.6 million in 2012,
the average of 15 estimates in a Bloomberg survey. Of the
analysts surveyed, 13 have reduced their estimates from earlier
this year. The U.S. averaged annual sales of 16.8 million
vehicles from 2000 to 2007, according to  Woodcliff Lake , New
Jersey-based Autodata.  Confidence Sinks  Confidence among U.S. consumers plunged in August to the
lowest level in more than two years, the New York-based
Conference Board said yesterday. The group’s index slumped to
44.5, the weakest since April 2009. Gross domestic product
climbed at a 1 percent annual rate in the second quarter, less
than previously estimated, the Commerce Department said Aug. 26.  GM is unsure of its forecast for at least 13 million
industrywide vehicle sales, Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson
said at an Aug. 9 analyst meeting. That forecast includes
medium- and heavy-duty trucks. August deliveries by the Detroit-
based automaker may have climbed 17 percent, the average
estimate of seven analysts.  Ford, which said last week it plans to collaborate with
Toyota City, Japan-based Toyota on developing hybrid pickups and
sport-utility vehicles, may report a 15 percent increase, the
average of seven estimates.  Nissan Motor Co., whose better supply of parts has buoyed
inventory levels above its Japan-based rivals, may say
deliveries climbed 18 percent, the average of four analysts’
estimates.  Japanese Inventory  Nissan, based in Yokohama, began the month with 54 days
supply of cars and trucks, according to Himanshu Patel, a
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analyst. Toyota had 34 days supply of
vehicles, while Honda had 27, Patel said in an Aug. 29 report.  “We believe Nissan is using that availability to drive
aggressive sales promotions,”  Brian Johnson , a New York-based
analyst at  Barclays Capital , wrote in an Aug. 25 report.  Chrysler Group LLC, the automaker majority owned by  Fiat
SpA (F) , may say sales increased 16 percent, the average of six
estimates. The  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based automaker ran a no
payments for 90 days  promotion  for some buyers of 2011 and 2012
Chrysler, Jeep, Dodge and Ram models during the month.  Vehicle prices may ease late in the year as competitors
such as Toyota and Honda boost inventory, said Lacey Plache,
chief economist at Edmunds.com, an auto-market researcher that
has kept its estimates for auto sales at 12.9 million light
vehicles this year and 13.9 million for 2012.  Production Returns  “Regardless of what’s happening in the overall economy,
production is coming back,” said Plache, who is based in  Santa
Monica ,  California . “This will bring some of these sales which
have been deferred back into the market.”  Hurricane Irene, which killed at least 40 people and
ravaged the East Coast from  North Carolina  to  Maine  late in the
month, interfered with auto deliveries in states that represent
about 30 percent of the total U.S. sales, said  Paul Taylor ,
chief economist at the National Automobile Dealers Association.  J.D. Power  lowered its estimate today for the August
annualized sales rate by about 200,000 light vehicles to 11.9
million, citing weak confidence and inclement weather.  Some of the sales lost due to the storm may be deferred to
September, said Taylor, who is based in McLean, Virginia.  “Dealers had a couple days to get the customers on the
phone and find a way to complete deals,” he said in a phone
interview.  The following table shows estimates for car and light-truck
sales in the U.S. Estimates for companies are a percentage
change from August 2010, unadjusted for the difference in
selling days. Forecasts for the seasonally adjusted annual rate,
or SAAR, are in millions of light vehicles.  August had 26 selling days, one more than a year earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield,  Michigan  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  