-- 
T-Mobile Antitrust Challenge Leaves AT&T With Little Recourse on Takeover

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g ,   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 
2011-09-01T13:55:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/u-s-files-antitrust-complaint-to-block-proposed-at-t-t-mobile-merger.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  wouldn’t have much luck
trying to salvage its proposed $39 billion takeover of T-Mobile
USA Inc. through negotiation with the U.S.  Justice Department ,
leaving a court fight as its only recourse, lawyers said.  The combination of the country’s second- and fourth-largest
wireless carriers would violate antitrust law and
“substantially lessen competition,” the U.S. said in a lawsuit
filed yesterday in federal court in Washington. The Justice
Department asked U.S. District Judge Ellen Segal Huvelle to
block the deal, the largest announced acquisition of the year
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  AT&T Chief Executive Officer Randall Stephenson in March
announced the proposed purchase of Bellevue, Washington-based T-
Mobile, a unit of  Deutsche Telekom AG. (DTE)  If the transaction falls
apart, Dallas-based AT&T would owe the German carrier a breakup
fee and concessions worth as much as $7 billion.  “Given the size of the cancellation fee that was
negotiated into this agreement, AT&T has the incentive to
fight,” said Andrew Gavil, who teaches antitrust law at  Howard
University  in Washington. “The fact that the Justice Department
is challenging the deal doesn’t mean they won’t negotiate a
resolution at some point.”  ‘No Indication’  Rejection by regulators would leave AT&T liable to pay
Deutsche Telekom $3 billion in cash, to give T-Mobile USA
wireless spectrum, and to reduce charges for calls into AT&T’s
network, a package valued at as much as $7 billion, Deutsche
Telekom has said.  AT&T fell 3 cents to $28.45 at 9:47 a.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. Bonn-based Deutsche Telekom’s
American depositary receipts declined 1 cent to $12.77. Each ADR
represents one ordinary share.  AT&T said yesterday that it was surprised by the
government’s lawsuit and that it will ask for an expedited
hearing.  “We have met repeatedly with the  Department of Justice  and
there was no indication from the DOJ that this action was being
contemplated,” Wayne Watts, AT&T’s general counsel, said in a
statement. He said the company intends to fight the litigation.
Deutsche Telekom said it too would contest the suit.  Huvelle has ruled against the Justice Department in
antitrust matters before. In 2001, the judge allowed SunGard
Data Systems Inc. to acquire Comdisco Inc.’s disaster recovery
business for $825 million, rejecting U.S. arguments that the
deal would hurt competition.  ‘Adverse Impact’  The combination would reduce wireless communication
competition in the U.S., driving prices higher, making service
worse and offering fewer products for U.S. consumers, the
Justice Department said yesterday in a  statement .  “AT&T had not demonstrated that the proposed transaction
promised any efficiencies that would be sufficient to outweigh
the transaction’s substantial adverse impact on competition and
consumers,” the department said in the statement. “AT&T could
obtain substantially the same network enhancements that it
claims will come from the transaction if it simply invested in
its own network without eliminating a close competitor.”  With the acquisition, AT&T would displace  Verizon Wireless ,
which is owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and Vodafone Group
Plc, as the No. 1 U.S. wireless carrier. Together, AT&T and
Verizon control 80 percent of profits in the market, according
to the FCC’s annual wireless report published June 27.  Less Certain  A merged AT&T and T-Mobile would have about 132 million
connections to mobile wireless devices and more than $72 billion
in mobile wireless telecom service revenue, the U.S. said in its
complaint.  “Any way you look at this transaction, it is
anticompetitive,” Sharis Pozen, the acting head of the Justice
Department’s antitrust division, said at a news conference
yesterday. Still, the department’s “door is open” to discuss a
remedy with AT&T, she said.  AT&T had been working to bolster its case as analysts
became less certain that the acquisition would be approved. A
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. survey of 32 polled observers published
Aug. 11 found sentiment the deal would win clearance had slipped
since early July, with fewer than half saying it would be
approved.  Call Centers  “This isn’t just a negotiating strategy, this isn’t just a
placeholder, they do mean to block it,”  Rebecca Arbogast , a
Washington-based analyst with Stifel Nicolaus, said in an
interview, citing the detailed federal complaint. “There still
is some room for negotiating a settlement, but the likelihood
seems narrow.”  The suit may be part of a negotiating strategy, said  David Balto , a Washington-based antitrust attorney. The U.S. may have
decided “the best way to have strength in the settlement talks
is to file a lawsuit,” he said in an interview.  AT&T pledged to bring 5,000 call-center jobs back to the
U.S. from other countries once the merger closed and said it
wouldn’t cut any U.S. wireless call-center jobs as part of the
deal.  “This is just the first stage,” Todd Rosenbluth, an
equity analyst at  Standard & Poor’s  in New York who recommends
buying AT&T and Sprint. “AT&T could consummate the deal if it
announces plans to shed some of the assets where they’ve got
some market-share overlap.”  Bert Foer, head of the American Antitrust Institute in
 Washington , which opposed the deal, said he didn’t see any room
for a settlement.  FCC Request  “They have clearly drawn a line in the sand,” Foer said
yesterday in an interview. “If it could be settled, they would
still be talking about it,” he said.  The Federal Communications Commission this month asked AT&T
for more information about how the deal would expand high-speed
wireless service in the U.S. The FCC said that it was continuing
its review. In an e-mailed statement FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said the record before the agency “raises serious
concerns about the impact of the proposed transaction on
competition.”  AT&T submitted new economic models to the FCC in July that
it said showed the merger would reduce prices and increase
service in large metropolitan markets. The models offer
“further detailed support” for arguments that the merger will
lessen strains on the company’s wireless network, lower costs
and increase quality, AT&T said in the filing.  “It’s really hard to see how they are going to fix this
deal,” said Harry First, a professor who teaches antitrust law
at  New York  University. “I assume AT&T is prepared with
economists to show there wouldn’t be price effects, but they
have been selling this idea all along without success.”  The case is U.S. v. AT&T Inc., 11-01560, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  