-- 
UN’s $100 Billion Climate-Change Initiative Seen to Need Private Funding

-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 
2011-08-31T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/un-s-100-billion-climate-change-initiative-seen-to-need-private-funding.html
A fund to help channel $100 billion
in climate-change aid annually to developing nations should
encourage private financing instead of counting mostly on money
from cash-strapped industrialized countries,  Bloomberg New
Energy Finance  said.  An international panel is working to create an endowment
depending primarily on donations from governments, which is  “a
recipe for failure,” Michael Liebreich chief executive officer
of New Energy Finance, said in a report today. The committee is
scheduled to finish before a meeting of UN climate negotiators
set for November in Durban,  South Africa .  The Green Climate Fund was central to agreements reached
last year by United Nations treaty negotiators in Cancun,
 Mexico . The world’s richest countries pledged to channel $100
billion annually by 2020, part of it through the fund, to help
poorer nations reduce greenhouse-gas emissions from energy
production and adapt to effects of global warming such as rising
sea levels.  Investment flows that large “can only be achieved if the
bulk is provided by the private sector, not the public sector,”
according to the report. Developed governments “are almost
without exception under extreme fiscal -- perhaps solvency --
pressure,” Liebreich said.  He suggested a network of treaties and financial incentives
designed to lower risks and attract private investors for clean-
energy and adaptation projects.  ‘Zero Chance’  Last year, a UN panel with members such as billionaire
 George Soros , chairman and founder of Soros Fund Management LLC
in  New York , and and  Larry Summers , former director of U.S.
President  Barack Obama ’s National Economic Council, said it
would be “challenging but feasible” to raise at least $65
billion by taxing foreign-exchange transactions and auctioning
pollution permits.  Nations won’t participate in such proposals, Liebreich said
in the report. “There is simply no point in advocating global
taxes on shipping, aviation and financial transactions, and/or a
global carbon price, where there is zero chance of these being
adopted in the current political cycle -- possibly ever,” he
said.  Climate aid can be delivered to the developing world though
a Green Climate Finance Framework using private funds when
possible and public money “only to deal with specific risks,”
Liebreich wrote. A model for the framework could be existing
export-finance banks, the  World Bank , and other development
banks and institutions.  Nations receiving the aid should sign an investment treaty
covering policy changes that could harm revenue, such as
regulations that increase costs and the ability to bring profit
back to home countries, according to the report. Richer national
governments should provide guarantees that private investors
won’t be hurt by natural disasters, coups and defaults where new
projects are financed, the study said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  