-- 
Murray Has No Intention to Resign From Boards of Sino-Forest or Glencore

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 
2011-08-31T16:50:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/murray-has-no-intention-to-resign-from-boards-of-sino-forest-or-glencore.html
Simon Murray, a director of Sino-
Forest Corp. and chairman of Swiss commodity trader Glencore
International Plc, said he has no intention of stepping down
from either company.  “I am not planning to resign from Glencore and not from
Sino-Forest,” Murray, 71, said today in a telephone interview
from Cameroon.  Sino-Forest Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Allen Chan 
resigned Aug. 28, two days after the Ontario Securities
Commission ordered the suspension of share trading in the
Chinese timberland operator.  Canada ’s main securities watchdog
said some directors of the Hong Kong- and Mississauga, Ontario-
based company may have engaged in acts “related to its
securities” that they “knew or should have known” perpetuated
a fraud. Murray was not named in the agency’s statement.  Murray declined to comment on Sino-Forest pending the
outcome of an independent review of  allegations  by Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC research firm that the company
overstated its timber holdings.  Sino-Forest has tumbled 67 percent in Toronto since Muddy
Waters’ June 2 report. The company has denied  Muddy Waters ’
allegations and established an independent committee of
directors to examine and respond to the accusations.  Chan and Murray were among Sino-Forest insiders who sold
C$81 million ($83 million) of shares in the tree-farm operator
since the end of 2006, regulatory filings show. Chan sold C$3
million and Murray C$10.8 million.  Murray said he used proceeds to acquire a stake in
Greenheart Group Ltd., Sino-Forest’s Hong Kong-listed unit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Mellor in Nanning,  China  at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 