-- 
Murray Takes Glencore From Rich Legacy With Foreign Legion Vigor

-- B y   W i l l i a m   M e l l o r
-- 
2011-08-31T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/murray-transforms-glencore-from-marc-rich-legacy-with-foreign-legion-vigor.html
During five years in the French
Foreign Legion, Glencore International Plc Chairman Simon Murray
was sent on missions ranging from death defying to merely
gruesome.  Dispatched to rescue trapped comrades encircled by Algerian
independence fighters in the Aures Mountains in 1961, Murray
survived an ambush in which the Legionnaire beside him died in a
hail of machine gun bullets, Bloomberg Markets magazine reports
in its October issue.  After another battle, Murray was ordered to stuff the
severed heads of two enemy soldiers into his pack and carry them
back to base for identification, blood dripping down his back.  When he quit the Legion in 1965 with the rank of senior
corporal, U.K.-born, Hong Kong-based Murray didn’t leave his
combativeness behind. He has headed Deutsche Bank AG in  Asia  and
been taipan -- Cantonese for “big boss” -- of billionaire Li Ka-
shing’s business empire.  At age 63, he became the oldest man to reach the South Pole
unaided, on a 58-day slog during which he lost 50 pounds (23
kilograms).  “Simon is one of the most extraordinary characters I have
met,” says Chris Patten, chairman of the BBC Trust and the last
colonial governor of  Hong Kong  before the British ceded it to
the Chinese in 1997. “He is brave, outspoken, funny and pushes
himself to almost crazy lengths.”  Price Plunge  At 71, Murray is facing new challenges. As the recently
appointed chairman of Glencore, Murray in May helped to steer
the world’s biggest commodities-trading company through a $10
billion initial public offering in  London  and Hong Kong, the
largest IPO to date in 2011.  And as a director of  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , a Chinese tree-
plantation company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, Murray
watched the company’s share price plunge 67 percent between June
2 and Aug 26, when the Ontario Securities Commission suspended
the stock from trading, saying the company may have misstated
revenue.  The suspension followed similar claims by short seller
Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC research firm in a June 2 report
that Sino-Forest was overstating its assets. Investors,
including hedge fund firm Paulson & Co., have lost C$3.3 billion
($3.4 billion).  Sino-Forest has denied the allegations and has commissioned
an independent investigation. Founder and chief executive
officer  Allen Chan  resigned on Aug. 28 and the company said
three other employees had taken leave.  Regulatory Filings  Chan and other insiders, including Murray, sold C$81
million of shares since the end of 2006, according to regulatory
filings in Toronto. Murray’s sales totaled C$10.8 million, the
filings show.  In a telephone interview, Murray yesterday denied any
suggestion that he had been cashing out of Sino-Forest, saying
he had swapped the holding for a stake in a Sino-Forest
subsidiary, Hong Kong-listed Greenheart Group Ltd., of which he
is also a director.  Murray personally owns 1,246,000 Greenheart shares and a
private equity firm he heads, General Enterprise Management
Services Ltd (GEMS), owns 7 million shares, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Those shares were worth a total of
7,499,140 Hong Kong dollars ($963,000) when they were suspended
from trading on Aug 29. The stock has fallen 68 percent since
June 2.  “I sold some of my shares in Sino-Forest to buy shares in
Greenheart,” Murray said from Cameroon, where he was on a
business trip.  ‘Bloody Sure’  Murray said he couldn’t comment further on the Sino-Forest
allegations pending the report of the independent inquiry, which
is due by the end of the year. However, he said he had no
intention of quitting either as Glencore chairman or as a Sino-
Forest director. “I am not planning to resign,” he said.  In an earlier interview in June, Murray had briefly touched
on his role at Sino-Forest. “I am on the side of investors,” he
said then. “I have to make bloody sure we haven’t made any
mistakes.”  Murray’s involvement with Sino-Forest has intensified the
scrutiny he already faces in his role as chairman of Baar,
Switzerland-based Glencore, a job for which he will earn 675,000
pounds ($1.1 million) a year.  The IPO immediately propelled Glencore, with a market value
of $59 billion, into the FTSE 100 Index, which tracks the U.K.’s
biggest companies, although the stock had fallen 20 percent from
its initial price as of yesterday.  Dominant Force  Glencore was founded in 1974 by former fugitive investor
Marc Rich. Rich was indicted in 1983 for  tax evasion  and for
buying oil from  Iran  in violation of U.S. sanctions before being
pardoned in 2001 by President Bill Clinton. In 1994, Rich sold
the company, then known as Marc Rich & Co., to its managers, who
changed the name to Glencore and ran it as a closely held
partnership.  Those managers still own 83.6 percent of the company and
have built it into such a dominant force that, according to the
company’s website, it’s involved in shipping more than half of
the world’s seaborne zinc, one-fourth of the copper and coal and
3 percent of all oil that’s traded by third parties. The company
also owns 34 percent of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) , the world’s fifth-biggest
mining company.  In 2010, Glencore profit surged 39 percent to $3.8 billion
on revenues of $145 billion as commodities prices soared 80
percent in the two years to March 2011. Profit in the first half
of 2011 jumped 54 percent to $2.45 billion, the company reported
on Aug. 25.  Level of Transparency  As a result of the IPO, five of Glencore’s 500 managers
have become billionaires, led by Chief Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg, 54, whose 15.7 percent stake is worth about $7.2
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Murray’s job as chairman is to convince investors such as
James Bevan that Glencore can achieve the transparency they
expect of the world’s biggest public companies. Bevan, who
oversees about 6 billion pounds as chief investment officer of
London-based CCLA Investment Management Ltd., says he didn’t buy
the stock in the IPO partly because Glencore doesn’t match the
level of disclosure of BHP Billiton Ltd. or Rio Tinto Group and
because the managers had chosen to sell shares when commodities
prices were close to their peak and likely to fall.  “There’s no alignment between the interests of the
controlling owners and the public shareholders,” Bevan says.  ‘It Was Clumsy’  Bevan said before Sino-Forest’s suspension from trading
that Murray’s presence as chairman may help him change his mind
about Glencore.  “It gives me much greater confidence,” Bevan said then. “It
would have been very easy to find a figurehead from politics who
could be spoon-fed information and not ask inquiring questions.
He’s very competent and he won’t be pushed around.”  Following the past week’s developments at Sino-Forest,
Bevan says he’s not so sure. “We continue not to hold Glencore
shares and certainly won’t consider purchases until this is now
fully resolved, and Simon Murray’s position is clear and
confirmed to be fine,” Bevan said in an email yesterday. “If it
isn’t, his position as Chairman is untenable.”  Murray said yesterday he had come under no pressure from
inside or outside Glencore to stand down.  Murray’s appointment to the Glencore chairmanship didn’t
proceed smoothly. In April, British media reported the job would
go to former BP Plc CEO John Browne. By the time Glencore
announced its IPO plans on April 14, it still hadn’t disclosed
who the chairman would be. A statement naming Murray followed
hours later. “It was clumsy,” Bevan says.  Paper Loss  That wasn’t the only mishap. In May, Murray was attacked by
U.K. Business Secretary Vince Cable for comments Murray had made
in an interview with a British newspaper about the risks
associated with hiring women who might get pregnant. “I think
his comments show an extremely primitive attitude,” Cable said.
Murray, who apologized, says his comments were taken out of
context.  Then came the Muddy Waters claims about Sino-Forest, on
whose board Murray has served since 1999. Murray said in the
interview in June he had personally taken a paper loss of $3
million to $4 million on shares he owns in Sino-Forest and
Greenheart.  A bigger loss, should the allegations be proved, would be
to his credibility as an independent director. “When you’re a
company director, your reputation is always on the line,” says
David Webb, a shareholder activist and former director of the
Hong Kong stock exchange whose  Webb-site.com  exposes corporate
shenanigans.  Luxury Goods  As well as chairing Glencore, Murray is a director of eight
public companies, including Geneva-based luxury goods maker Cie.
Financiere Richemont SA, owner of the Cartier brand, and Li’s
 Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , Hong Kong’s second-biggest property
developer. Murray also runs his own $800 million private-equity
firm, GEMS, which boasts former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger as an adviser.  Murray will continue to be based in Hong Kong but will keep
an office and secretary in Baar. He says he’ll attend 20
Glencore board and other meetings each year and will spend time
each day on e-mails and regular contact with Glasenberg.  Murray--who’s 5 feet 8 inches (1.7 meters) tall and wiry--
still treks in the Himalayas and jogs up to 3 miles (5
kilometers) a day and says he can handle the pressure. “It
doesn’t get me in the gut,” he said in the interview in June in
his office at GEMS’s headquarters 36 floors above Hong Kong’s
Victoria Harbor.  ‘Things Get Twisted’  On his desk, a model Legionnaire stood at attention near a
copy of the latest reprint of his memoir, “Legionnaire”
(Ballantine Books, 2006). He said he was fairly stoical about
criticism. “But I get irritated when things get twisted,” he
said.  After spending five years in the  Legion , Murray can survive
anything thrown at him, says a friend, British novelist
Frederick Forsyth.  “They made it extraordinarily hard for young Brits,” says
Forsyth, 73, who as a Paris-based journalist covered the
Algerian War of Independence and whose 1971 novel, The Day of
the Jackal, was based on its aftermath. “It was sadistic stuff.
I have met Legion generals who have enormous respect for Simon.”  Nor has age wearied Murray, Forsyth says. “We go shooting
pheasant, and Simon has such amazing energy that you get
breathless watching him,” he says.  ‘Good Governance’  Murray says he plans to use that energy to work with
Glasenberg to improve Glencore’s image. “I think the word
secretive is misapplied here,” he says. “When you are a private
company, you get on with your business. This isn’t whispering-
out-of-the-corner-of-the-mouth stuff.”  Murray says he and Glasenberg both know their roles.
“Ivan’s is to run the business, and mine is to run the board--
and the board functions in great part to look after the interest
of shareholders,” Murray says. “That’s all about good
governance. Ivan’s the sort of guy who will listen. He has not
run a public company and is very conscious of the fact.”  There are eight directors on the Glencore board, including
former BP CEO  Tony Hayward , now head of investment company
Vallares Plc and Leonhard Fischer, CEO of  RHJ International (RHJI)  SA,
the Brussels-based investment firm that last year acquired U.K.
private bank Kleinwort Benson. Glasenberg declined to comment
for this article.  ‘We’re Building Hospitals’  Another issue Murray says he wants to tackle is public
relations. Glencore owns mines in  developing countries , and
advocacy groups such as Global Witness have alleged it pollutes,
offers low wages and doesn’t pay enough in taxes.  In May, the European Investment Bank, the European Union’s
lending arm,  announced  it had barred Glencore from receiving
loans because of corporate governance concerns and a tax dispute
in Zambia. Glencore spokesman  Simon Buerk  said the company,
which denies any wrongdoing, welcomes an inquiry.  “You have pension funds that zero in on this stuff,” Murray
says. “People talk about Glencore taking out, but we’re also
putting back. We’re building hospitals and schools.”  While Murray’s background is far removed from those of
Glencore’s employees in developing countries, he didn’t entirely
escape hardship. After his father left home, Murray spent time
in a British orphanage. Although later schooled privately, he
dropped out of the educational system at age 18.  When he was 20, he took a train to Paris and enlisted in
the Legion, the 180-year-old force of mostly foreign mercenaries
that fought in  France ’s colonial wars and carries on today as an
elite military unit.  ‘Laundromat of Thugs’  Murray was immediately posted to  Algeria , fighting
guerrillas of the National Liberation Front. In his book, Murray
tells of conditions so tough that some recruits deserted. Murray
stayed but declined the offer of officer school.  Instead, he headed to Asia. “Simon came out of a laundromat
of thugs,” says Ken Courtis, former Asia vice chairman of
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. “Through extraordinary ambition, energy
and drive, he made the world his school.” In 1966, Murray joined
Hong Kong-based British conglomerate  Jardine Matheson Holdings
Ltd. (JM)  as a trainee and eventually rose to senior management.  In 1980, he set up his own company, Davenham Investments.
Then, in 1984, he teamed up with Li, who had risen from poverty
to acquire  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) , making him the first Chinese
to own one of Hong Kong’s great trading houses. Li wanted Murray
to run it.  Murray’s Independence  Murray was doubly unique among Hong Kong business leaders:
He believed in transparency and was prepared to speak his mind,
says Stephen Vines, author of “Hong Kong:  China ’s New Colony”
(Aurum Press, 1998).  “There were only three ways to rise to the top in the Li
Ka-shing empire,” Vines says. “You were either family or a
sycophant or you were Simon Murray.”  Murray’s independence wasn’t confined to business. In 1992,
London dispatched its last colonial governor, former cabinet
minister Chris Patten, to manage the handover of Hong Kong to
China five years later.  Patten began to introduce a limited form of democracy.
Chinese government spokesmen objected loudly. Most business
leaders, including Li, sided with Beijing. Murray, equally
loudly, backed Patten and quit as Li’s taipan. In 1994, he
joined Deutsche Bank and, four years later, launched  GEMS .  ‘March or Die’  In his book “East and West” (Pan Macmillan, 1998), Patten
says the Chinese Communist Party must have had a fat file on
Murray. In reality, rather than blacklisting him after the
handover, leaders of some of China’s biggest companies embraced
him, appointing him to the advisory boards of offshore oil giant
 Cnooc Ltd. (883)  and Huawei Technologies Co., China’s largest phone
equipment maker.  When he’s been able to break away from the corporate suite,
Murray has continued his adventuring. In 2000, three years
before his trek to the pole, Murray completed the Marathon des
Sables, a six-day, 243-kilometer foot race across the Sahara.  “A slogan of the French Legion is ‘March or Die,’ and
that’s one of the enduring features of Simon’s life, both in
business and his other adventures,” says  Daniel Mudd , a former
U.S. Marine Corps officer who now oversees $43 billion as CEO of
New York-based Fortress Investment Group LLC.  Judging by Murray’s past record, it won’t be easy to knock
him off his stride.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Mellor in Sydney at 
 wmellor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Laura Colby at   lcolby@bloomberg.net  