-- 
Utilities Restore Electricity to 57% of Customers After Hurricane Irene

-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 
2011-08-31T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/utilities-restore-electricity-to-57-of-customers-after-hurricane-irene.html
Utilities restored power in less
than a week to about 57 percent of the customers who lost
electricity after Hurricane Irene toppled trees, tore down  power
lines  and caused flooding from  North Carolina  to  Maine .  About 3.84 million U.S. homes and businesses have had power
restored from an estimated 6.69 million affected by the storm,
the U.S. Energy Department said in a  report  yesterday. Irene
made landfall Aug. 27 as a Category 1 hurricane in North
Carolina before striking  New York  the next day.  Power will be restored by Sept. 2 to the majority of
customers in New York and  Virginia , the states with the highest
number affected by the storm, according to utility companies.
For others, recovery may take longer as crews struggle to clear
trees and debris and restore power lines.  It’s too soon to assess how utilities handled the storm’s
damage, estimated by  Standard & Poor’s  to be in the tens of
billions of dollars, said Scott Hempling, executive director of
the  National Regulatory Research Institute  in Silver Spring,
 Maryland .  “It’s too big, too idiosyncratic and too early,” said
Hempling, who has directed several studies on utility storm
recovery. “That’s something each state utility commission will
have to look into once the facts are known, and right now, the
people who have the facts are still busy pulling all-nighters
making things work.”  ‘Lingering’ Blackouts  More than 500,000 customers still lack electricity in both
New York and  Connecticut . “Lingering, localized” blackouts may
persist for its customers into this holiday weekend, Long Island
Power Authority Chief Operating Officer Michael Hervey told
reporters yesterday.  “If our electric system were a person, we just got run
over by a truck,” Hervey said at a press conference. Fixing the
problem is complicated by the fact that “it can take as long as
four hours to remove a tree so our crews can get in.”  Irene drew comparisons to hurricanes Gloria in 1985 and
Isabel in 2003, which also struck the mid-Atlantic coast and  New
England . About 4.2 million customers lost electricity because of
Isabel and 3.2 million from Gloria.  Utilities in the Northeast have requested 6,000 more
linemen, said John Bruckner, senior vice president for National
Grid Plc, which manages the power authority’s lines. National
Grid will add 182 tree-clearing workers in the next day to speed
access, he said.  Consolidated Edison Inc. (ED)  said  “nearly all”  of its New
York City customers will be restored as of yesterday and in
Westchester County today.  ‘Flooded Roads’  “Flooded roads, inundated manholes and littered and
twisted tree limbs, trunks, and downed wires continue to hamper
restoration efforts,” the New York-based company said in a
statement yesterday. “Crews from utilities as far away as
Texas, Colorado and Kansas are assisting Con Edison with
restoration efforts.”  Storm-weakened trees with roots in saturated ground may
topple and cause new power failures for days or months,
Baltimore Gas & Electric, the utility unit of  Constellation
Energy Group Inc. (CEG) , said in a statement yesterday.  About 2.85 million customers were without power because of
Irene as of 3 p.m. local time yesterday, according to the
department’s report. New York State, which had the largest
number of power cuts, had about 7 percent of customers still
without electricity.  In Connecticut, where the number of power failures exceeded
Hurricane Gloria’s record in 1985, about 32 percent lack
electricity, the most of any state affected. Connecticut Light &
Power, which had more than 600,000 customers lose power at the
peak of the storm,  is bringing  in more crews to clear trees and
repairs lines.  The company, a subsidiary of  Northeast Utilities (NU) , said
389,660 of its customers still lacked electricity as of 3:30
p.m. local time yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  