-- 
Mutual Funds Face Curbs on Using Derivatives

-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 
2011-08-31T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/mutual-funds-face-curbs-on-using-derivatives.html
The U.S.  Securities and Exchange
Commission  is poised to take the first step toward writing new
regulations on derivatives investments by mutual and exchange-
traded funds, which hold more than $13 trillion in assets.  The agency’s four commissioners are scheduled to vote today
to publish a set of ideas for new rules after conducting an
industry review and warning investors of risks in funds that use
derivatives to seek higher returns.  The SEC’s so-called concept release is expected to address
questions about funds’ leverage and diversification, according
to a person familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of
anonymity because the proposal wasn’t yet public. The document
would be open to public comment before the agency issues
proposed rules.  The SEC has had to “twist like a pretzel” to accommodate
financial tools such as derivatives in its regulations of funds,
said Jay Baris, a New York-based partner at  Morrison & Foerster
LLP , and chairman of an American Bar Association  task force  that
published a report last year on the issue.  “You have a set of laws that were, by and large, put in
place long before anyone ever heard of derivatives,” Baris said
in an interview.  The SEC, which has been writing derivatives regulations
required under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, has also been reviewing
how investment companies use the instruments. The agency last
March said it wouldn’t approve new exchange-traded funds that
make significant use of derivatives during the review.  Investor Warning  That decision followed warnings to investors in 2009 by the
 Financial Industry Regulatory Authority , the U.S. brokerage
watchdog that some types of ETFs might not be advisable for
long-term investors. Under federal law dating to the 1940
Investment Company Act, mutual funds face leverage restrictions
designed to limit shareholder losses.  The SEC said last year that it was concerned that mutual
funds use generic disclosure forms providing “limited
usefulness” to investors. Generic disclosures “may not enable
investors to distinguish which, if any, derivatives are in fact
encompassed in the principal investment strategies of the funds
or specific exposures they will entail,” Barry D. Miller,
associate director in the office of legal and disclosure at the
SEC, said in  a letter dated July 30, 2010 .  U.S. mutual funds had  $12.2 trillion  in net assets in June,
while exchange-traded funds had  $1.1 trillion  in July, according
to the  Investment Company Institute , a Washington-based trade
association.  Increasing Returns  Leveraged and inverse ETFs have received the most scrutiny
from regulators for potentially confusing retail investors. The
funds use derivatives to increase returns or have the opposite
results returned by an index. Derivatives, including swaps, are
financial contracts tied to an underlying stock, bond, index or
event, such as the default of a company.  “I don’t think that they’re trying to constrain mutual
funds or change the way they operate,” said P. Georgia Bullitt,
partner at  Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP . “I think they’re trying
to make it safer and clearer.”  The SEC’s regulation of mutual funds’ use of derivatives is
based on a 1979 agency release, known by the number “10666,”
which didn’t specifically mention derivatives. That release was
followed by a regulatory framework based on no-action letters
and staff interpretations instead of new federal rules.  The bar association’s task force followed a 2009 speech by
Andrew “Buddy” Donohue, the then-SEC director of  investment
management , in which he said he was most concerned by how
derivatives affect the amount of leverage mutual funds have.  Risk Levels  The bar association task force recommended that the SEC set
out principles for funds to segregate accounts based on the
risks of different types of derivatives.  “Mutual funds are severely limited in the amount of
leverage they can use,” Mercer Bullard, president and founder
of  Fund Democracy , a mutual fund shareholder advocacy group
based in Oxford,  Mississippi . “There is no empirical evidence
that derivatives in mutual funds pose a systemic risk or even
that they’ve been responsible for significant losses relative to
securities.”  In addition to the mutual fund concept release, the SEC may
take up two other proposals: an advance proposal governing
issuers of asset-backed securities, and a second concept release
to seek public comment on the status of companies that acquire
mortgages and mortgage-related instruments.  The five-member SEC board currently has one vacancy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in  Washington  at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at  lroberts13@bloomberg.net  