-- 
Vietnam Assigns Government Team to Solve Tata Plant Deadlock

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-31T13:47:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/vietnam-assigns-government-team-to-resolve-5-billion-tata-plant-deadlock.html
Vietnam set up a group of central
and provincial officials to help resolve land clearance and
compensation issues that have delayed the construction of  Tata
Steel Ltd. (TATA) ’s $5 billion project in the country.  The group aims to work with officials at Tata Steel,
 India ’s largest producer of the alloy, to come up with a
solution within a month, Vice Minister of Planning and
Investment Dang Huy Dong said in an interview in Hanoi.  “It’s still a priority project,” Dong said yesterday.
“Both parties have to come up with a realistic solution.”  The case highlights the difficulties some projects that
would rank among Vietnam’s biggest by investment capital may
encounter due to land-clearance laws. Most projects in Vietnam
also require approval by multiple government agencies.  “It’s difficult to reach the level of consensus in  Vietnam 
that is required for these large-scale projects, even for small-
scale trading projects, where many ministries have to be
consulted for their ‘opinions,’” said Fred Burke, Ho Chi Minh
City-based managing partner at Baker McKenzie in Vietnam.  Under Vietnamese law, the government pays for land
clearance. In practice, the local government is expected to
cover the cost and “they would make the investors somehow pay
for it,” Burke said. “It’s kind of an impractical law in the
first place. And those impractical laws sometimes just end up
frustrating the implementation of projects.”  Awaiting Approval  Tata Steel first signed an agreement with Vietnam Steel
Corp. in May 2007 to develop a plant with an output capacity of
about 4.5 million metric tons a year in coastal Ha Tinh
province. The Indian company, which operates in  Africa ,  Europe 
and  Australia , estimated the first phase of the project would be
completed by the end of 2010, according to a 2008 press release.  The Mumbai-based steelmaker is still awaiting Vietnam’s
approval for the plant, spokesman Prabhat Sharma said on Aug.
22. Tata didn’t immediately respond to questions today from
Bloomberg News.  Construction of the complex has been repeatedly delayed
over land allocation and after a site previously earmarked for
Tata was handed to a rival steel mill project, India’s Business
Standard reported in September 2009. The site clearance costs
total about 4 trillion dong ($192 million) and the provincial
authority wants Tata to cover some of that, according to a
Vietnam Investment Review story that cited Nguyen Dinh Van,
director of the region’s economic zone management authority.  Financial Constraints  Dong, the vice minister, said the government has told Tata
that it faces financial constraints over the land clearance
issue. Tata “complained that they were not equally treated like
other rival companies,” Dong said. “It’s simply first come,
first serve.”  “If the first investor comes in with ready, quick
decisions and they’re disbursing hundreds of millions of dollars
in a matter of a year, then we have to have money to make things
happen,” Dong said. “And by doing that, we ended up having no
more resources.”  Tata would have a minimum 65 percent stake in the complex,
with Vietnam Steel Corp. and Vietnam Cement Industries Corp. the
remainder, according to the 2008 press release. Tata would also
hold a 30 percent stake in Thach Khe Iron Ore Joint Stock
Company, which would undertake mining in the Thach Khe iron ore
mine, according to details on Tata Steel’s  website .  The government is working with Tata Steel to push forward
the project, Deputy Prime Minister Hoang Trung Hai said May 3.  “This is a project that Vietnam really wants,” the deputy
prime minister said at the May news conference during a meeting
of the  Asian Development Bank  in Hanoi. “However, the
preparations have been slow.”  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 