-- 
Violations of Wage Laws Targeted in Crackdown, Solis Says

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 
2011-08-31T16:46:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/violations-of-wage-laws-targeted-in-crackdown-solis-says-1-.html
The Obama administration is cracking
down on violations of laws governing pay and working hours,
especially in the health-care, tourism and construction
industries, Labor Secretary Hilda Solis said.  The agency is backing a proposal requiring employers to
give workers more information about pay to help curb wage-and-
hour violations, Solis said today at a media breakfast sponsored
by the Christian Science Monitor in  Washington .  “The idea is promoting more transparency so people can
know how salaries are being calculated,” she said. “Wage theft
occurs and it’s to make accountable businesses not playing by
the rules.”  The proposal would require companies to give employees a
report explaining how their pay and hours are set and is aimed
at ensuring companies compensate workers for overtime. The U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the largest U.S. business lobby group, in
March began briefing its members about the possible regulation
that they said will encourage lawsuits by workers.  President  Barack Obama ’s administration is stepping up
enforcement of wage-and-hour rules. Employers paid $6.5 million
in back wages in the year ended Sept. 30 in response to Labor
Department lawsuits, more than double the $2.6 million in the
previous year, according to a report last year by Seyfarth Shaw
LLP, a  Chicago  law firm that represents employers.  Solis today identified industries such as construction and
health-care where employers fail to comply with pay laws.  Minimum Pay, Overtime  A 2009 study of 4,400 low-wage workers in Chicago,  New York 
and  Los Angeles  found 26 percent earned less than the minimum
hourly wage, and 76 percent who worked overtime in the previous
week weren’t paid for the time, according to a report released
by the New York-based National Employment Law Project, the
Center for Urban Economic Development in Chicago and the UCLA
Institute for Research on Labor and Employment in Los Angeles.
The study examined employees in such industries as construction,
food service, retail and home health-care.  The  Fair Labor Standards Act  requires overtime payments for
130 million workers, according to the Labor Department website.
The average settlement in the 10 biggest wage-and-hour class-
action lawsuits was more than $12 million last year, according
to Littler Mendelson PC, an employment law firm in  San Francisco 
that tracks such cases.  Employees eligible for overtime must receive no less than 1
1/2 times their regular compensation for work exceeding 40 hours
in a work week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  