-- 
Vivendi Quarterly Profit Climbs as GVT, Activision Blizzard Revenues Surge

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-08-31T07:32:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/vivendi-posts-surprise-increase-in-q2-profit.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , the owner of the world’s
largest video-game and music companies, reported a surprise jump
in second-quarter profit, propelled by its Activision Blizzard
and GVT divisions. The stock rose the most in seven months.  Net income excluding one-time gains and costs rose 12
percent to 884 million euros ($1.3 billion), the Paris-based
company said today. Analysts had predicted profit of 780 million
euros, according to the average of seven estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Vivendi reiterated its full-year forecast, and
pledged to increase its dividend.  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Bernard Levy is focusing on
existing operations after years of deal-making, which culminated
in the 7.95 billion-euro buyout in April of partner  Vodafone
Group Plc (VOD) ’s stake in mobile operator SFR. The takeover gave
Vivendi full control of the second-largest French wireless
company, which Levy estimated would add more than 600 million
euros to adjusted profit next year and in 2013.  GVT, Vivendi’s Brazilian broadband arm, “certainly is the
real growth driver, and Activision had a good quarter,” said
 Conor O’Shea , an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Paris.  Vivendi rose as much as 4.4 percent to 16.88 euros in the
biggest intraday gain since Jan. 18 and was up 3 percent as of
9:28 a.m. in Paris trading. Before today, the stock had declined
20 percent this year.  'Call of Duty'  Sales at the Activision Blizzard division, publisher of the
“Call of Duty” video-game series, climbed 5 percent to 796
million euros, while earnings before interest, taxes and
amortization jumped 36 percent. GVT’s sales rose by more than
half to 353 million euros and Ebita jumped 76 percent.  Other businesses owned by Vivendi include pay-TV operator
Canal Plus and  Universal Music Group , which puts out recordings
by artists such as Lady Gaga and Eminem.  The company will face a new challenger in its home
telecommunications market next year when Paris-based  Iliad SA (ILD) , a
provider of home broadband service, opens  France ’s fourth
mobile-phone network. SFR’s sales declined 3.1 percent in the
quarter to 3.06 billion euros, accounting for 43 percent of
Vivendi’s total revenue.  France Telecom SA (FTE) , whose Orange brand is the country’s
biggest mobile-phone operator, is looking to emerging markets
and possible asset sales to improve finances ahead of Iliad’s
entry, which may lower prices that the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development estimates are higher than the
European average.  “SFR is the one to watch going forward, with a whole range
of possible outcomes as a result of the fourth operator,”
Kepler’s O’Shea said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.netvroot @bloomberg.net. 