-- 
VTB’s Unit Wins Majority in Bulgarian State Tobacco Company

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-08-31T12:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/vtb-s-unit-wins-majority-in-bulgarian-state-tobacco-company-2-.html
A unit of OAO VTB,  Russia ’s second-
largest bank, was awarded a majority stake in  Bulgaria ’s state
tobacco company after the sole bidder offered to pay 100.1
million euros ($145 million).  The contract with Austrian-registered BT Invest GmbH for
the 80 percent stake in  Bulgartabak Holding (57B)  will be signed by
Sept. 15, the Privatization Agency in Sofia said in an e-mailed
statement today. It also needs approval of the agency’s
supervisory board. BT Invest was the only remaining bidder after
 British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Europe ’s largest cigarette maker,
pulled out of the tender that ended on Aug. 29.  “VTB Capital’s international strategy envisages further
expansion of our business into new geographies and markets,
including central and eastern Europe,” Atanas Bostandjiev,
chief executive officer of VTB Capital Plc, said in a statement.
“The current privatization process could be the first step in
establishing” presence “on the Bulgarian market.”  Bulgaria, the  European Union’s  poorest country by per
capita gross domestic product, is recovering from its worst
recession in more than a decade and needs to raise cash to
narrow its  budget deficit  and meet increasing social benefits
payments ahead of October presidential and local elections.  Buy Local Tobacco  BT Invest offered to invest additional 2 million lev ($1.49
million) in the first year of operation and a further 5 million
lev in the second year, the state-asset company said in an e-
mail. It also committed to buy 5,000 tons a year of locally
grown tobacco in the next five years.  Bulgartabak has six units, including four cigarette makers
and a trading division. The company had net income of 34.1
million lev in the first six months of this year as revenue rose
78 percent and exports grew 30 percent, the Sofia-based company
said on July 26.  VTB shares rose 0.64 percent to 7.64 kopeks in Moscow
trading today. Bulgartabak shares rose 3.55 percent to 27.5 lev
at the close of trade in Sofia today.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  