-- 
Wall Street Wants to Train Your Brain

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   B e n   S t e v e r m a n
-- 
2011-08-31T19:22:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/wall-street-wants-to-train-your-brain.html
If going really wild -- so out there that
you wouldn’t tell your friends -- means moving from a three-
month Treasury bill to a one-year certificate of deposit, you’re
probably suffering from Irrational Prudence Syndrome, a non-
medical but widespread condition that results from overexposure
to volatile markets. IPS is characterized by extreme aversion to
equities and uncontrollable urges to stuff cash into government-
guaranteed mattresses, be it a CD, a Treasury security or even a
checking account. Left untreated, IPS can lead to poorer
investors -- and frustrated advisers. It’s a syndrome financial
firms dread, and one they are determined to cure.  That may mean probing a client’s “financial personality.” Or it
may involve creating “goals-based” investment buckets, with the
riskiness of each pot of money customized to how crucial the
goal is -- a child’s college, a vacation, retirement -- and how
far off it is. Another technique to get clients to increase
their investments is a form of shock therapy: Running a current
photo of a client through age-progression software to show how
he’d look at retirement -- gray hair, drooping jowls and all.  After having seen their portfolios age poorly in recent years,
investors are skeptical of performance claims. Thus, in
financial marketing, “There’s always a shift away from pushing
performance when there’s a downturn in the market,” says Mercer Bullard, an associate professor of law at the  University of
Mississippi  and founder of investor advocacy group Fund
Democracy. As well, “[firms] are trying to push people back into
equities from cash.” That, of course, would be profitable for
the firms. Bullard doesn’t view it quite that cynically:
“Another reason [they’re doing this] is that they’re trying to
make sure people have the right level of equities so they don’t
lose their shirts to the declining value of money over time,” he
says.  Companies including  Bank of America Merrill Lynch (BAC) ,
 Barclays Wealth (BCS) ,  JPMorgan Chase (JPM) , and  Allianz Global
Investors (AZSEY)  are increasingly using behavioral finance --
the study of how unconscious biases influence financial
decisions -- to strengthen their relationship with clients and
figure out what products to offer them. According to behavioral
finance, our emotions lead us to make portfolio-sapping moves
like buying high, selling low and holding on to declining stocks
rather than cutting our losses. And now, via the Internet, we
can implement all the hasty decisions we want with ease and at
low cost, with no buffer between us and our money to prevent
these harmful transactions. Financial firms say investors need
to better understand their true risk tolerance -- and they need
a portfolio that they can live with through market gyrations.  Easily Stressed  The shift toward more therapeutic financial help from advisers
is also showing up in the exam people take to get the Chartered
Financial Analyst designation. The  CFA Institute ’s 2012
curriculum includes beefy sections on behavioral finance and
more emphasis on long-term goals and building the psychological
strength not to panic on market drops. Armed with that training,
a CFA adviser might well quiz clients on how they’d react to
hypothetical scenarios, or ask them to keep an “investment
diary” tracking reasons for their investment decisions. If their
financial willpower weakens, clients can refer back to their
rationale, which may calm them or just show “the limitations of
our ability to make good financial predictions,” says Stephen
Horan, head of private wealth at the institute.  Barclays Wealth has made a big push into behavioral finance. The
firm wants the science “deeply embedded” in the way it does
business with wealthy clients, says Greg Davies, head of
behavioral and quantitative finance at the firm. “It needs to be
drip-fed into every client meeting.”  After unrolling a behavioral finance effort in the U.K.,
Barclays turned its attention to training staff in its 14 U.S.
offices last year. Its main tool is a “financial personality
assessment” -- a series of 36 statements that clients respond to
by checking one of five answers ranging from “strongly agree” to
“strongly disagree.” Examples are “I fear for the worst,” “I get
stressed easily” and “I have invested a large sum in a risky
investment for the excitement of seeing whether it goes up or
down in value.”  Davies says using behavioral finance helps clients get better
returns over the long run. Success is “difficult to measure,” he
adds, because sometimes clients are deliberately steered toward
lower-performing, less risky assets so that they’re more
emotionally comfortable with their portfolio and less prone to
making bad decisions.  Mental Buckets  Literally putting a face on savings is one way some firms will
try to get clients to save. Allianz Global Investors’ Center for
Behavioral Finance, launched in June 2010, will provide advisers
with tools like age-progression software to use with clients. It
shows how someone would physically look at  retirement age . “If
they can connect to themselves in the future, they will save
more money,” says Cathy Smith, co-director of the center.  Firms are also trying to better connect with investors through
products that mimic their natural “mental accounting.” Most
people divide money into “mental buckets” earmarked for
something -- travel or a grandchild’s education, for example --
and academic studies have shown that simply attaching a specific
goal -- or face -- to a bucket of money can greatly increase how
much a person saves.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch is building such goal-specific
portfolios for its ultra high-net-worth clients. The portfolios
in its new “goals-based wealth management” program will take
risks commensurate with the importance of the goal. For example,
“must-have” or essential goals are funded with portfolios that
take less risk than portfolios meant for discretionary goals,
says Anil Suri, head of investment analytics for Bank of America
Merrill Lynch.  In a sign of the buzz around behavioral finance, while money
poured out of most equity funds in August, some funds that use a
behavioral approach gained assets. JPMorgan Chase’s Intrepid
Funds, which use behavioral finance principles to pick stocks,
saw assets under management rise from $5.8 billion at the end of
2008 to $11 billion as of May 31. That growth was 38 percent
faster than for all equity funds, according to the  Investment
Company Institute . From Aug. 1 to Aug. 19, the Intrepid Funds
had net inflows of $28 million.  Battling Your Emotions  Christopher Blum, chief investment officer of the U.S.
behavioral finance group for J.P. Morgan Asset Management, says
the panics and volatility in recent years have given more
credence to the fact that markets may be driven by emotion. It’s
shown that investors who act on opportunities (such as buying on
dips) and stick to their investing rules “even if it doesn’t
feel right” can prosper, he says. For an interactive look at how
investors tend to pour money into markets as they rise, pull it
out when markets fall and do best when they follow a steady
course of regular investing, see the interactive graphic
 “Investors’ Emotional Roller Coaster.”   Financial firms are also doing more to root out the behavioral
biases of their employees. Cabot Research uses software based on
concepts developed by  University of California  at Berkeley
professor Terrance Odean to analyze every decision made by
managers. Relying on heavy computing power -- it takes 100
computers three days to evaluate one portfolio -- Cabot
identifies common mistakes, such as holding on to stocks for too
long, and tracks portfolios to make sure the mistakes aren’t
made again. Chief Executive Officer Michael Ervolini says
business is booming. The firm tracks 49 portfolios holding $600
billion in total, up from 13 portfolios two years ago.  Cabot client Joel Fortney, a research analyst who specializes in
behavioral finance at Principal Global Investors, the $239
billion asset manager, says an emphasis on behavioral finance is
improving the firm’s investing. It also sparks the interest of
potential clients, Fortney says. “It’s a measure of your skill
as an investor,” he says. “If you aren’t aware of these topics,
you’re probably a victim of them.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Margaret Collins at
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net  and Ben Steverman at
 bsteverman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Suzanne Woolley
at  swoolley2@bloomberg.net  