-- 
Wallabies World Cup Chances Hinge on Genia, Former Winner Farr-Jones Says

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-08-31T05:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/wallabies-world-cup-chances-hinge-on-genia-former-winner-farr-jones-says.html
Australia ’s chances of winning a
record third Rugby  World Cup  hinge on scrum-half Will Genia,
according to the first Wallabies captain to lift the trophy.  Genia’s vision and game-breaking ability, which he
demonstrated in Australia’s 25-20 Tri-Nations win over New
Zealand, put him alongside All Blacks fly-half  Dan Carter  as the
key performers at the 20-nation tournament starting next week,
former Wallabies skipper Nick Farr-Jones said.  “I’d say leading into the World Cup along with Dan Carter
he is the most valuable player that any team has,” Farr-Jones
said in Sydney today. “If I woke and found out that Genia had a
tournament-ending injury then I’d almost give up on the
Wallabies hopes. He’s that good.”  Genia, who was born in  Port Moresby ,  Papua New Guinea , got
the opening try and made the decisive break to set up Kurtley Beale for the match-winning score at  Brisbane ’s Suncorp Stadium
four days ago as Australia beat the All Blacks to secure its
first southern hemisphere rugby championship since 2001.  Seven weeks earlier at the same stadium, Genia spotted a
gap between Carter and All Blacks captain Richie McCaw and
dashed 65 meters (71 yards) for the match-winning try in the
Super Rugby final between the  Queensland Reds  and Canterbury
Crusaders. It was the Reds’ first provincial title in the
professional era.  Australia’s 1991 World Cup-winning skipper Farr-Jones, who
played 63 Tests at scrum-half, said the 23-year-old Genia’s
lateral vision sets him apart from his peers in the position
that links the forwards and backs.  ‘Surprise Element’  “Genia’s got it in spades,” Farr-Jones said. “His
judgment is fantastic. It’s all about when you do it and the
surprise element. I think that’s his greatest strength.”  Australia, which took its second title in 1999, is the
bookmakers’ second favorite behind host  New Zealand . The All
Blacks open the 48-game tournament Sept. 9 against Tonga in
Auckland and the Wallabies take on Italy two days later.  U.K. bookmaker William Hill Plc rates a New Zealand-
Australia final on Oct. 23 as the most likely championship
decider at odds of 6-4. The top-ranked All Blacks, who won their
only World Cup title in 1987, still warrant favoritism even
after their loss four days ago, Farr-Jones said.  “My biggest fear is that post-Brisbane the All Blacks
probably had the loss that they had to have,” he said.
“They’ll have that steely determination and in a way I think
their nation deserves it. They start clearly as favorites and I
do expect them to go on, but I do expect Australia to be in that
final as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  