-- 
Buffett’s Tax Idea Withstands ‘Write a Check’ Critique: View

-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 
2011-08-31T00:00:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/warren-buffett-s-tax-proposal-withstands-write-a-check-critique-view.html
For the last week or so, the
airwaves have been filled with criticism of  Warren Buffett , the
billionaire investor. Buffett, you will remember (not that you
had a chance to forget) wrote an article for the New York Times
op-ed page in which he called for higher taxes on people like
himself.  He said that he, one of the richest men in the U.S., paid a
smaller fraction of his income to the government than every one
of the other 20 people in his office. Buffett paid 17 percent of
his income in taxes in 2010. His employees paid between 33 and
41 percent. That’s mainly because, as things now work, salaries
are taxed at rates up to 39 percent, while dividends and  capital
gains  are taxed at a top rate of 15 percent. Salaries are also
subject to the  payroll tax  that finances -- or rather, doesn’t
finance, but is supposed to -- Medicare and Social Security.
Investment profits (dividends and capital gains) are not. All
this strikes Buffett as unfair. Us, too.  The centerpiece of the anti-Buffett critique, advanced by a
number of prominent politicians and journalists, goes something
like this: If Buffett feels he doesn’t pay enough taxes, he is
free to pay more. He doesn’t need any change in tax law to give
the government as much money as he wants.  The critics regard this as a devastating rejoinder.  Rep.
Michele Bachmann of  Minnesota , for example, publicly  taunted 
Buffett: “I have a suggestion. Mr. Buffett, write a big check
today. There’s nothing you have to wait for. As a matter of
fact, the president has redefined millionaires and billionaires
as any company that makes over $200,000 a year. So perhaps Mr.
Buffett would like to give away his entire fortune above
$200,000. That’s what you want to do? Have at it. But don’t ask
the rest of us to have our taxes increased because you want to
have a sound bite.”  Where to start analyzing this farrago of illogic and
misinformation? Well, how about with the reminder that no one
has “redefined millionaires and billionaires.” President  Barack Obama  has said that $200,000 of income -- not wealth -- is the
point at which the people who have been most fortunate in this
country can afford to pay a bit more in taxes. He wants
individuals, not companies, to pay more.  Yes, many small businesses are not incorporated, and the
income they generate is taxed to the owner like any other
income. But that’s because it actually is like any other income,
despite efforts to make small-business profits seem somehow
especially noble.  In our view of the matter, Obama has been a bit too
invidious in his comments when drawing this line. It’s not that
people with high incomes are bad people. It’s that the
government needs revenue, and it has to come from somewhere. We
believe that “somewhere” should include the middle class as well
as those with especially high incomes. Buffett, in his article,
defined wealthy as starting at $1 million a year of income.
Neither he nor Obama has said anything to suggest, even in jest,
that anyone should “give away his entire fortune” over $200,000.  We have not spoken with Buffett about this, but we impute
to him our view. We presume that he does not want taxes to rise
just for the joy of paying more himself. What he wants is to see
our country extract itself from the perilous economic situation
it finds itself in. And he believes that this will require
shared sacrifice -- including a bigger contribution from wealthy
people such as himself.  Even Warren Buffett cannot achieve this goal alone. If he
gave every penny he had to the cause of  deficit reduction , the
amount would be too small to make much difference. But if
everyone similarly situated were to do the same, that would make
a significant difference. It is perfectly reasonable for Buffett
to say to his peers, in effect, “This will only work if we do it
together. So I will if you will. And together we can achieve
what none of us could achieve acting as individuals.”  The “why don’t you just do it yourself?” critique can be
applied to many issues other than taxes. Opposition to abortion
is fine, and no one needs to have one who doesn’t want one. Just
don’t ask the rest of us to give up the right to choice for the
sake of a sound bite. Object to same-sex marriage? Fine. Marry
someone of the opposite sex. Have at it. But don’t deny the
blessings of marriage to Americans who feel otherwise. And so
on.  The point is that in a libertarian democracy, citizens get
to make most decisions for themselves on an individual basis.
But for a few issues -- taxing and spending being the main ones
-- achieving a goal requires communal action. It doesn’t
disqualify someone’s call for collective action that he is not
inclined to act fruitlessly alone.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 