-- 
Chinese Premier Wen Signals No Shift in Policies With Economy ‘Sound’

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-08-31T16:09:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/wen-says-china-to-focus-on-taming-inflation-even-as-economic-growth-slows.html
China ’s top priority is stabilizing
prices and the government doesn’t plan to alter the direction of
economic policies, Premier  Wen Jiabao  said.  The slowdown in the economy is “reasonable” and within
government expectations, Wen wrote in an article in the ruling
Communist Party’s Qiushi magazine. An abstract was posted on the
government’s website yesterday.  Banks including UBS AG, Morgan Stanley and Deutsche Bank AG
cut their growth forecasts for China last month as a slowdown in
the  U.S. economy  and  Europe ’s debt crisis threaten the nation’s
exports. Five interest-rate increases since mid-October,
property curbs and lending controls have also cooled demand in
the world’s second-biggest economy.  “The government is worried that even if inflation
pressures are easing now, if they relax too much or let people
think they are relaxing, inflation and expectations could rise
again,” said  Mark Williams , a London-based Asia economist at
Capital Economics Ltd. “Growth is stabilizing rather than
dropping sharply.”  Williams expects consumer-price gains eased to 6.1 percent
last month from a year earlier after jumping the most in three
years in July. The government is due to release August inflation
data on Sept. 9.  The government needs to balance maintaining relatively fast
growth, restructuring of the economy and managing inflation
expectations, Wen  wrote . “We need to bring down the pace of
price increases without causing large fluctuations in the
economic growth rate.”  Stimulus Wind-Down  China’s expansion eased to 9.5 percent in the second
quarter compared with a year earlier from a 9.7 percent pace in
the first quarter as the government wound down an unprecedented
4 trillion yuan ($627 billion) stimulus that helped the economy
weather the global financial crisis in 2008.  August’s index of Chinese manufacturing, due at 9 a.m.
local time today, may show a rebound from a 29-month low the
previous month, indicating  Asia ’s biggest economy is
withstanding global financial turmoil and weaker external
demand. The Purchasing Managers’ Index likely rose to 51 from
50.7 in July, according to the median estimate of 14 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey.  “In general, the economy’s performance is sound,” the
quality and pace of growth is improving and “some prominent
contradictions are gradually easing,” Wen wrote in the
magazine. The government will “decisively implement” measures
to cool the  property market , he said.  Wen’s comments give “no indication that he is
contemplating a reversal of tightening measures put in place
over the last 12 months despite the recent deterioration in the
global outlook,” said  Brian Jackson , a Hong Kong-based
strategist with Royal Bank of  Canada . Jackson expects one more
increase in benchmark  interest rates  by the end of the year.  ‘Uncertain Environment’  The Premier reiterated that China faces a “very
complicated, unstable and uncertain environment both at home and
abroad” and that the government needs to be aware of the risks.  UBS cut its forecast last week for China’s expansion this
year to 9 percent from 9.3 percent while Deutsche Bank lowered
its prediction to 8.9 percent from 9.1 percent. Both banks
estimate growth will slow to 8.3 percent next year.  “The government is comfortable with the slowdown currently
taking place and isn’t ready to relax policies in the near
term,” said Kevin Lai, a Hong Kong-based economist with Daiwa
Capital Markets Ltd.  In the latest effort to manage liquidity, the central bank
told lenders they will have to include margin deposits in
calculations of their  reserve requirements  starting Sept. 5. The
move is intended to deal with the rapid growth in banks’ off-
balance sheet lending that’s complicating the central bank’s
attempts to control liquidity, according to  Wang Tao , a Hong
Kong-based economist for UBS.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  