-- 
World Bank Should Refocus Its Anti-Corruption Fight, Audit Says

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-08-31T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/world-bank-should-refocus-its-anti-corruption-fight-internal-audit-says.html
The  World Bank ’s fight against
corruption needs to focus more on helping borrower countries
build the institutions and policies that make them accountable
to their citizens, an internal audit said.  Since adopting a strategy of better governance and anti-
corruption in 2007, the bank has mainly paid attention to
improving its resources and reputation in dealing with those
issues, according to the report. While it also has increased
commitments to help countries strengthen their public sector,
institutions and investment climate, that support has yet to
show in concrete projects, the evaluation by the  Independent
Evaluation Group  said.  “The bank has to focus on helping countries develop the
capacities to govern. That’s what the bank should be focused
on,” Navin Girishankar, the study’s main author, said in a
telephone interview. “There is a gap between the plans and the
follow-through that needs to be filled.”  Government distrust and exasperation with widespread
corruption fueled the uprisings that toppled the presidents of
Tunisia and  Egypt  this year. International financial
institutions, which have been criticized for praising the
economic policies of these countries, are now trying to support
a growth model that’s more inclusive of the population.  “Well-governed countries are better able to formulate
growth-enhancing policies, deliver essential services to the
poor, and regulate financial and product markets,” the internal
audit said.  Report Welcomed  The World Bank management welcomed the report, while noting
that it didn’t cover the full extent of the institution’s
efforts to fight corruption, such as a recent push to toughen
its investigations and sanctions on projects it finances.  The audit centers on helping countries improve governance,
an area where there are “obvious limits to what can be achieved
in such a short time,” it said in its written response.  “We’re glad the report recognizes that the Bank is working
to support good governance throughout our programs, and we can
live with a criticism that we have spent too much time
protecting our own money,” Joachim von Amsberg, vice president
for the bank’s operations policy and country services, said in a
telephone interview.  An example of how the World Bank can improve countries’
governance and fight corruption when lending them money is to
include funds to strengthen road agencies in a project that
finances infrastructure, Girishankar said.  The report also says the bank should be more consistent in
the way it deals with countries where governance deteriorates.  “Many stakeholders inside and outside the Bank hold the
view that lending goals conflict with pursuing” goals of the
anti-corruption strategy, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  