-- 
Yankees’ CC Sabathia Beats Rival Red Sox for First Time This Season

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-08-31T04:36:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/yankees-cc-sabathia-beats-rival-red-sox-for-first-time-this-season.html
CC Sabathia got his first win in
five starts against the  Boston  Red Sox this season as the  New
York Yankees  defeated their division rivals 5-2.  Sabathia improved to 18-7 after allowing two runs on 10
hits while striking out 10 over six innings at Fenway Park in
Boston last night. Sabathia threw a season-high 128 pitches.  “CC was great, he battled all night,” Yankees manager 
Joe Girardi told reporters. “He made some really good pitches 
when he had to and got some strikeouts when he had to.”  The Yankees (81-52) moved to within a half-game of Boston
(82-52), which leads Major League Baseball’s American League
East division. The teams play again today and tomorrow.  Eric Chavez  drove in Robinson Cano with singles in the
second and fourth innings, and Cano had a run-scoring double in
the fourth as the Yankees took a 3-0 lead.  Carl Crawford hit a fourth-inning home run and Marco Scutaro followed with a run-scoring double to trim  New York ’s
lead before backup catcher  Francisco Cervelli  hit a 380-foot
home run in the fifth to restore New York’s two-run advantage.  Cervelli was hit in the back with a pitch the next time he
came to bat in the seventh inning, prompting both benches to
empty. Three batters were hit by pitches in the game.  Derek Jeter returned after missing two games with a bruised
kneecap and pushed the Yankees’ lead to 5-2 when a run scored on
his double-play ground ball in the seventh.  Chavez started at third base in place of  Alex Rodriguez ,
who missed the game and may sit out the rest of the series with
a thumb injury. He was hurt on Aug. 21 against Minnesota and
aggravated the injury against Baltimore a week later.  John Lackey (12-10) gave up five runs on seven hits in
seven innings for the  Red Sox , who are 10-3 against the Yankees
this year. Yankees closer Mariano Rivera got his 35th save after
retiring the Red Sox in the ninth inning, when Girardi was
ejected for arguing about whether Boston’s Jarrod Saltalamacchia
was hit by a pitch.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  