-- 
China’s Yuan Completes Best Month in 2011 on Inflation, Reserves Concern

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-08-31T09:18:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/yuan-set-for-best-month-in-2011.html
The yuan completed the biggest
monthly gain this year on speculation  China  will tolerate more
currency appreciation to curb inflation and rein in dollar
purchases.  The yuan was the biggest gainer among Asia’s 10 leading
currencies excluding  Japan  this month, after inflation reached a
three-year high of 6.5 percent in July. Consumer-price increases
may exceed 7 percent in November, China National Radio reported
today, citing  Wang Jian , secretary-general of the China Society
of Macroeconomics. The advance against the dollar was also
boosted as the  Federal Reserve  pledged on Aug. 9 to keep record-
low  interest rates  through mid-2013.  “The future of dollar assets remains blurred given the
economic outlook,” said Patrick Cheng, a currency analyst at
Haitong International Securities Co. in Hong Kong. “Yuan
appreciation is a way for China to reduce its dollar holdings.
It also helps to lower imported energy and material costs as
demand from  Asia  is still intact.”  The yuan climbed 0.9 percent this month to close at 6.3782
per dollar at 4:30 p.m. in Shanghai, contributing to a 3.2
percent gain this year, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System. The currency touched 6.3705 yesterday, the
strongest level since the country unified the official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the currency strengthened
1.2 percent this month to 6.3563. The People’s Bank of China set
the reference rate 0.03 percent weaker at 6.3867, after fixing
it at the highest since July 2005 yesterday.  Foreign-Exchange Reserves  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards gained 1.7 percent
this month in  Hong Kong . The contracts slipped 0.03 percent
today to 6.2796 per dollar, a 1.6 percent premium to the onshore
spot rate, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The People’s Bank of China buys dollars to limit currency
gains as capital flows into the country, a policy that’s made it
the biggest foreign holder of Treasuries. China’s $3.2 trillion
of foreign-exchange reserves are the world’s largest.  The government faces a problem of “very low” returns on
its assets as investments in developed markets have low yields,
while the Western nations use some of this capital to get high
returns investing in China, China Business News reported, citing
central bank adviser Xia Bin in an interview. Xia said that
China should accelerate the reform of its  exchange rate  and the
opening up of its capital account, according to the report.  -- Editors: Sandy Hendry, James Regan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 