-- 
Zimbabwe Sought to Flout KImberley Pact With Gem Sale, Rights Groups Say

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-08-31T10:08:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/zimbabwe-sought-to-flout-kimberley-pact-with-gem-sale-rights-groups-say.html
Zimbabwe  offered to sell about $200
million of diamonds from its Marange field in March, breaching
an international agreement which it signed, two human rights
groups said.  The  Kimberley Process,  which monitors the export of so-
called conflict gems, in 2009 placed restrictions on sales from
Marange, near Zimbabwe’s border with  Mozambique , after a review
mission found human-rights violations and smuggling. In 2009 two
monitored sales were permitted, and in June the Process allowed
the resumption of exports, with the condition they would be
monitored.  Mineral Marketing Corp. of Zimbabwe, a state-owned company,
offered to sell 1.65 million carats of gems from the field at
$121 a carat, Ottawa-based Partnership Africa  Canada  and New
York-based  Human Rights Watch  said in a joint statement handed
to reporters in Johannesburg yesterday, citing documents in
their possession.  The offer “shows that Zimbabwe, and those that bought
these stones, were willfully in breach of a universally
respected ban on Marange stones,” Alan Martin, research
director at Partnership Africa Canada, told reporters in
Johannesburg.  Minerals Marketing Acting Chief Executive Officer Nomsa
Moyo didn’t answer calls to her mobile phone yesterday and noone
was available to comment when the company’s head office in
Harare, Zimbabwe’s capital, was visited by a Bloomberg reporter
today.  Rising Production  Mbada Mines Ltd., part owned by Johannesburg-based New
Reclamation Group Ltd., and Canadile Miners Ltd. operate mines
on the Marange fields in ventures with the state-owned Zimbabwe
Mining Development Corp.  Zimbabwe became the world’s seventh-biggest diamond
producer by value in 2010, producing gems worth $339.8 million,
according to New York-based Rapaport, a diamond research
company.  Annual income from the Marange field could rise to $2
billion if the country was allowed to export gems freely,
Zimbabwe’s mines minister  Obert Mpofu  said, according to a
report in the state-controlled Herald newspaper in October last
year.  In June last year Human Rights Watch said that 200 illegal
miners were killed by the military at the site in 2008 as the
government increased its control of the deposit. Gideon Gono,
Zimbabwe’s central bank governor, said in 2007 smuggling from
the field was costing the country $40 million a week.  Zimbabwe also exports gems from the Murowa mine, controlled
by  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) , and the River Ranch mine.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  