-- 
Venus Williams Quits U.S. Open as Americans Roddick, McHale, Falconi Win

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 
2011-09-01T16:52:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-08-31/zvonareva-beats-bondarenko-at-u-s-open-soderling-withdraws-with-illness.html
(Corrects Roddick’s opponent to Michael Russell in fourth
paragraph. For today’s U.S. Open schedule, click here.}  Venus Williams’s quest for a third
U.S. Open title ended with a withdrawal on a day fellow
Americans Christina McHale and Irina Falconi had upset wins and
 Andy Roddick  fought through his tournament opener.  Williams, the 2000 and 2001 champion, said she was
diagnosed with  Sjogren’s syndrome , a condition that causes
fatigue and joint pain and that limited her to three previous
tournaments this year.  Williams withdrew yesterday before her second-round match
against No. 22 seed Sabine Lisicki of Germany. Her departure
leaves the season’s final major without a player who has been
one of the faces of women’s tennis for 15 years, winning nine
Grand Slam singles titles.  “I was surprised, we saw her the other night and she
looked good,” said Roddick, who moved into the second round
with a 6-2, 6-4, 4-6, 7-5 win over fellow American Michael Russell. “I’m very concerned. If Venus isn’t playing at the
 U.S. Open , it has to be serious. It isn’t because she’s sneezing
too much.”  Williams said today on ABC’s “Good Morning America” that
the diagnosis ended months of worry over a condition that
affected her play.  “I would miss shots by feet,” she said. “I couldn’t feel
my hands and my hands would hurt while I was playing. I’d have
swelling and numbness and then fatigue, which was really
debilitating.”  American Youth  With Williams, 31, unable to play, McHale and Falconi
demonstrated why they may be the future of American tennis.  McHale, a 19-year-old from Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey,
beat No. 8 Marion Bartoli of France 7-6 (7-2), 6-2 on the
grandstand court at the National Tennis Center in  New York .
Falconi, 21, followed with a 2-6, 6-3, 7-5 win over 14th-seeded
Dominika Cibulkova of Slovakia.  “There’s a lot of young American players right now that
are kind of all pushing each other, so I think it’s exciting,”
said McHale, who is ranked 55th by the WTA Tour and beat No. 1-
ranked  Caroline Wozniacki  this month. McHale will play 25th-
seeded  Maria Kirilenko  of  Russia  in the third round, while
Falconi meets Lisicki.  Venus Williams’s sister, Serena, is back in action today,
with a second-round match against Michaella Krajicek of the
Netherlands. A three-time U.S. Open winner,  Serena Williams  has
never lost before the third round in 11 previous appearances at
the tournament and is 2-0 against Krajicek.  Federer Plays  Williams takes the court at Arthur Ashe Stadium after five-
time champion  Roger Federer  of Switzerland, the men’s No. 3
seed, plays Dudi Sela of  Israel  in a second round match.  Top seeds Wozniacki of Denmark and Novak Djokovic of Serbia
headline tonight’s evening session. Wozniacki faces Arantxa Rus
of the Netherlands, while Djokovic takes on Carlos Berlocq of
Argentina.  Mardy Fish, at No. 8 the highest-seeded American in the
men’s draw, plays against Malek Jaziri of Tunisia.  Venus Williams , who came into the tournament unseeded for
the first time since 1997, said she was disappointed about
having to withdraw. Her condition, which before a first-round
win had kept her out since Wimbledon, affects between 400,000
and 3.1 million people, according to the American College of
Rheumatology’s website.  “I am thankful I finally have a diagnosis and am now
focused on getting better and returning to the court soon,”
Williams said in a statement.  Bryans Out  Brothers Mike and Bob Bryan of the U.S. are also headed
home after suffering their earliest exit from a Grand Slam
tournament in 10 years. The top seeds and defending men’s
doubles champions lost 6-4, 2-6, 6-2 to Croatian Ivo Karlovic
and Frank Moser of  Germany .  The Bryans won the Wimbledon and the Australian Open
doubles titles this year. They were beaten in the third round at
the 2006 U.S. Open and last lost in the first round of a Grand
Slam at the 2001 Australian Open.  “We’re used to being in the second week,” Mike Bryan told
reporters. “It’s going to be weird.”  Roddick knocked out one American to set up a match against
another in 18-year-old Jack Sock, the 2010 U.S. Open boys’
champion. Sock won in four sets yesterday against 33-year-old
Marc Gicquel of France, who was the oldest player in the men’s
draw.  “I like Jack a lot,” said Roddick, who turned 29 two days
ago and, like Sock, grew up in Nebraska. “He’s a little bit
like an 18-year-old I knew once upon a time. I’ll take on the
young American. I’ll enjoy it.”  Murray Wins  Andy Murray , the No. 4 seed from Britain, beat  India ’s
Somdev Devvarman 7-6 (7-5), 6-2, 6-3 in the first round. Murray,
the 2008 U.S. Open runner-up, reached the final of the
Australian Open this year and the semifinals of the French Open
and Wimbledon.  Sixth-seeded Robin Soderling of Sweden withdrew before his
first-round match yesterday because of a viral infection.  Juan Martin Del Potro of Argentina, the No. 18 seed and
2009 U.S. Open champion, dropped five games in his win over
Filippo Volandri of Italy.  John Isner  of the U.S. won in four
sets, while No. 12 Gilles Simon of  France  needed five sets to
get past Ricardo Mello of  Brazil . Nicolas Almagro, the 10th seed
from  Spain , lost in straight sets to Julien Benneteau, a wild
card qualifier from France.  Sharapova Advances  Vera Zvonareva, the No. 2 seed from Russia who was runner-
up last year, beat Ukrainian Kateryna Bondarenko 7-5, 3-6, 6-3.
 Maria Sharapova  of Russia, the third seed and 2006 U.S. Open
winner, eased into the third round with a straight-set win over
Anastasiya Yakimova of Belarus.  Ninth-seeded Samantha Stosur of  Australia , No. 13 Peng Shuai of  China  and No. 19 Julia Goerges of Germany also won in
straight sets, while No. 12 Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland lost
to Angelique Kerber of Germany.  Yanina Wickmayer of Belgium, seeded 20th, pulled out after
trailing Alla Kudryavtseva of Russia 6-1, 3-0.  American Madison Keys, at 16 the youngest player in the
women’s draw, failed to capitalize on a one-set lead against No.
27 seed Lucie Safarova, falling 3-6, 7-5, 6-4.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski at the National Tennis Center at 
8797 or  matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson at the National Tennis Center at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 