-- 3M Cuts Full-Year Forecast Range as Sales Fall in Europe
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-10-23T20:40:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/3m-cuts-full-year-forecast-range-as-sales-fell-in-europe.html
3M Co. (MMM) , the manufacturer of products
including Scotch tape and dental braces, reduced its full-year
forecast as a recession in Europe and slowing Asia growth
crimped sales. The shares fell the most in almost a year.  3M now sees earnings of $6.27 to $6.35 a share, including 3
cents of an acquisition-related cost, the company said in a
statement. That’s down from a previous  target  of $6.35 to $6.50,
which didn’t include the expense, and  lower  than the $6.40
average of analysts’ estimates complied by Bloomberg.  The St. Paul, Minnesota-based company, which makes a
 majority  of revenue in Europe and Asia, cut the profit target
and the top end of its goal for sales from existing businesses
to reflect what it called “current economic realities.” Facing
slowing demand, Chief Executive Officer Inge Thulin has raised
prices and kept costs in check to boost profit.  “Pricing power is evident, but weakening demand across end
markets should continue to be of concern as the company re-
calibrates growth investment,” Steve Winoker, an analyst with
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, wrote in a note.  The shares fell 4.1 percent to $88.73 at the close in New
York, the biggest intraday drop since Oct. 25, 2011. The stock
has gained 8.6 percent this year, trailing the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index’s gain of 12 percent.  ‘Sluggish Economies’  During the third quarter,  sales  fell 6 percent in  Europe ,
the Middle East and  Africa  and dropped 1.4 percent in Asia
Pacific, the company said. Total sales declined 0.5 percent to
$7.5 billion, missing the average analysts’ prediction of $7.63
billion.  “We still face the challenge of sluggish economies in
large developed regions like Western Europe and  Japan ,” Thulin
said on a conference call with analysts. “In  China , the year
clearly has not played out the way most anticipated.”  Net income rose 6.7 percent $1.16 billion, or $1.65 a
share, from $1.09 billion, or $1.52, a year earlier. That
matched the average analysts’ estimate.  Last quarter, selling prices rose  1.1 percent  and raw-
material costs fell 2 percent, helping boost profit. Currency
translations caused a drop of 0.5 percent in revenue at the
industrial and transportation unit, the largest.  The display and graphics division posted its first year-on-
year sales increase since the second quarter of 2011 after
struggling from declining demand for optical film for liquid-
crystal-display televisions. Revenue increased 0.1 percent to
$936 million.  Sales Forecast  Foreign exchanges will reduce total sales by about 2.5
percent this year, the company said today, a smaller impact than
the 3 percent it expected in July. Sales from existing
businesses will rise as much as 2.5 percent this year, 3M said.
The manufacturer had forecast a top range of 5 percent in July.  Thulin, who became CEO in February, has created new
business areas this year in aerospace and mining, oil and gas to
help fuel growth. He announced earlier this month a
reorganization of the company that reduced the number of units
to five from six and shuffled the leaders of those businesses.
Those changes will take effect in January.  During the quarter, the company completed the $110 million
purchase of the electronic toll collection and parking
management business from  Federal Signal Corp. (FSS)  3M also announced
on Oct. 1 it agreed to pay $860 million for the shares of
Ceradyne, a producer of ceramics used in energy, aerospace and
defense industries.  Two days later the company said it abandoned a $550 million
deal to buy the office products business of  Avery Dennison Corp. (AVY) 
after failing to reach an agreement with the Department of
Justice, which said the combination would hurt competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Dallas at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  