-- AAU Check Finds 150 Adults Potentially Threatening to Children
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-10-23T15:09:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/aau-check-finds-150-adults-potentially-threatening-to-children.html
The  Amateur Athletic Union  said
background checks found 150 adult participants in the U.S.’s
biggest amateur sports organization with issues “that could
prove to be problematic for AAU membership.”  The findings came from a screening of 27,000 adults between
Sept. 1 and Oct. 15, the AAU said in a statement. It is
performing security reviews on more than 100,000 coaches, adult
athletes, volunteers and support staff to help identify those
who might be threats to child athletes, including pedophiles and
people convicted of drug-related offenses.  The background checks are part of steps to prevent abuse
following allegations last year that a former president of the
AAU, Bobby Dodd, molested two basketball players in the 1980s.
Dodd denied the allegations and no formal charges have been
brought against him.  “The steps that we have taken will safeguard children
participating in amateur sports across the country,” AAU
National President Henry Forrest said in the response. “It is
our expectation that those involved in AAU programming share
that philosophy, and the background checks provide an additional
safeguard for our youth athletes.”  The AAU, which sponsors 250 national championships and
30,000 age-division events for more than 500,000 athletes every
year, didn’t specify the offenses it found, citing privacy. It
also refused to say how many of the 150 will be banned from the
AAU. No one in the “problematic” group is on the board, the
AAU said in an e-mail response to questions.  In June, the AAU announced that it would conduct background
checks, ban one-on-one contact between adults and youths and
require volunteers and staff to report any suspected child abuse
to  law enforcement  and AAU officials.  The organization hired Alpharetta, Georgia-based LexisNexis
Risk Solutions, a division of London-based  Reed Elsevier , to
conduct the background searches following a seven-month review
of its safety policies.  Forrest said that adult memberships and renewals are
slightly higher than a year ago without giving figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington, Delaware at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  