-- Actelion Drops After Study as JPMorgan Cuts Price Target
-- B y   P h i l   S e r a f i n o
-- 2012-10-24T08:55:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/actelion-s-key-drug-halves-risk-of-death-hospitalization.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN)  fell in Zurich trading
after JPMorgan Chase & Co. said the stock already reflects
clinical trial data showing that the company’s experimental
macitentan drug helps patients with a fatal  lung disease .  Actelion dropped as much as 2.3 percent and was trading 1.1
percent lower at 44.83 Swiss francs at 10:30 a.m. at 50 percent
above the three-month average volume. The stock had risen 42
percent this year. JPMorgan cut the stock to neutral from
overweight, James Gordon, a London-based analyst, said in a
report today. He lowered his price target to 49 francs from 53
francs.  The study presented yesterday supports the view the drug
will be approved for sale by regulators, and that it’s different
from existing treatments, he said. People with pulmonary
arterial hypertension who took macitentan at its highest 10-
milligram dose showed an improvement of 23 meters (75.5 feet) in
a six-minute walk test compared with a placebo in the study
dubbed Seraphin, Allschwil, Switzerland-based Actelion said in a
statement.  The drug is key to the company’s future. Chief Executive
Officer Jean-Paul Clozel cited macitentan’s potential as a
reason for the company to remain independent when he fought off
a hedge fund seeking board seats and wanted Actelion to consider
selling itself. Tracleer, Actelion’s existing pill for the
illness, accounts for 87 percent of company sales and starts
losing patent protection in 2016.  ’High Chance’  “We see a high chance of macitentan approval and
reimbursement,” Gordon wrote. “However, with U.S. priority
review uncertain, we may not see approval until late 2013.”
It’s also unclear whether the drug’s label will carry a warning
for liver toxicity, and the challenges of getting European
governments to pay for the drug remain, he said.  The research was presented at a meeting of the American
College of Chest Physicians in Atlanta. Macitentan provides “a
strong and sustained benefit to patients suffering” from the
disease, the company said in the statement.  Pulmonary arterial hypertension is a deadly disease in
which the arteries that carry blood from the heart to the lungs
narrow, making the heart work harder and causing elevated  blood
pressure . That causes symptoms such as chest pain, dizziness and
shortness of breath. There’s no cure.  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s experimental drug riociguat helped patients walk
an additional 36 meters in the six-minute walk test, the
Leverkusen, Germany-based company said Oct. 22.  Macitentan’s 23-meter benefit was “potentially at the
lower end of what some investors may have been hoping for,”
JPMorgan’s Gordon wrote.  Slowing Disease  Actelion said in April that macitentan lowered the risk of
the disease worsening by 45 percent in the trial, without giving
details. The drug also reduced the risk of death by 36 percent,
but the result fell short of the statistical threshold at which
the company can say it wasn’t the result of chance.  A summary of the study, published last week in advance of
the conference, showed the drug halved the risk of death or
hospitalization. A 10-milligram dose also cut the risk of the
disease worsening by 38 percent in patients getting another
treatment, and 55 percent in those receiving nothing else.  Actelion has submitted macitentan for regulatory approval
in the U.S. and plans to sell it under the brand name Opsumit,
the company said in a statement Oct. 22.  Tracleer’s sales fell in the first nine months of the year
on competition from  Gilead Sciences Inc.’s (GILD)  Letairis in the U.S.
and on price cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Serafino in Paris at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  