-- Adoboli Sent Rogue Trader Warnings by UBS After Kerviel Losses
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-10-24T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/adoboli-sent-rogue-trader-warnings-by-ubs-after-kerviel-loss-1-.html
Kweku Adoboli, the former  UBS (UBSN)  AG
trader who is accused of causing a $2.3 billion loss, and other
bank staff were sent e-mails alerting them to the conduct of
 Jerome Kerviel  at  Societe Generale SA. (GLE)   UBS sent two e-mails about Kerviel’s 4.9 billion-euro ($6.4
billion) trading loss at  Societe Generale  to all investment bank
employees, prosecutors told jurors at Adoboli’s trial in  London 
yesterday. The first one, after the French banker’s trades were
uncovered in 2008, called Kerviel a “rogue trader” and warned
UBS staff to be on alert for “unusually large trading
volumes.”  Prosecutors have said Adoboli, who is on trial for fraud
and false accounting dating back to October 2008, hid the risk
of his trades by booking fake hedges while he worked at the
exchange-traded funds desk. Kerviel was found guilty in 2010 of
forgery and breach of trust and given a prison sentence and
ordered to repay the full 4.9 billion-euro loss.  “Any suspected fraudulent activity or breach of trust
should be escalated to your local compliance officer,” UBS’s
internal compliance department said in an e-mail following
Kerviel’s conviction, read to the jury by prosecutor Esther
Schutzer-Weissmann. “UBS does not tolerate violations of its
code.”  Compliance Alert  Adoboli, 32, has pleaded not guilty and his lawyers have
sought to show the jury that others knew about his trading.  The first UBS e-mail, sent on Jan. 25, 2008, was titled
“Global Compliance Alert: Rogue Trader Costs Societe Generale
$7.1 Billion.” It compared Kerviel to  Nick Leeson , the former
British derivatives trader who caused the collapse of Barings
Plc in 1995.  That e-mail, from the internal communications department at
UBS’s investment bank, warned staff to be on the alert for
“unusually large trading volumes” and other warning signs such
as traders exceeding risk limits, transactions “that don’t seem
to serve a purpose,” a pattern of late or canceled trades, or
unusual amounts of profit or loss.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  