-- Aflac Profit Increases on Sales of Japan Government Bonds
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-23T21:44:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/aflac-profit-increases-36-to-1-billion-on-investment-results.html
Aflac Inc. (AFL) , the largest seller of
supplemental health insurance, said third-quarter profit rose 36
percent as the company sold Japanese debt as part of a program
to boost investment returns.  Net income  increased to $1 billion, or $2.16 a share, from
$736 million, or $1.57, a year earlier, the Columbus, Georgia-
based firm said yesterday. Operating income, which excludes some
investment results, was $1.77 a share, beating the $1.66  average
estimate  of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Sales of Japanese
 government bonds  added $192 million to profit.  Chief Investment Officer Eric Kirsch is revising the
portfolio after losses on European holdings. Kirsch, 52, who
joined Aflac from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  last year, said in
September he’s purchasing dollar-denominated corporate bonds,
decreasing the allocation to Japanese government debt and
avoiding private European assets to improve the return on
investments.  “Our recently employed U.S. corporate bond program has
been an effective means for enhancing our new money yields in
 Japan ,” Chief Executive Officer Dan Amos said in a statement
yesterday. The strategy “increases the opportunities to
diversify the investment of our significant cash flows.”  Aflac reported net realized investment gains of $186
million, mostly from sales of Japanese government debt. That
compares with net losses of $34 million a year earlier, when the
insurer booked impairments on holdings of Brussels-based Dexia
SA and BAWAG Capital Finance Jersey.  Dividend Increase  Aflac declared a quarterly dividend of 35 cents a share, a
6.1 percent increase from the 33-cent payout of the past four
quarters. That missed the Bloomberg Dividend Forecast for a 3-
cent boost to 36 cents.  The insurer, which uses a talking-duck mascot in television
advertisements, rose 1.5 percent to $50.40 at 5:30 p.m. in
extended trading yesterday in  New York . Shares gained 15 percent
 this year  through the end of regular trading, matching the
increase of the 24-company  KBW Insurance Index. (KIX)   Aflac gets most of its premium revenue in Japan and
converts results from yen to dollars for reporting purposes.
Japan sales will rise as much as 35 percent this year, Aflac
said, boosting a July forecast for sales gains of 20 percent to
25 percent.  New annualized premium sales in Japan jumped 32 percent in
the third quarter after rising 47 percent in the second quarter,
the insurer said.  Fourth-quarter sales in Japan will be “‘somewhat
suppressed,’’ rising as much as 15 percent, Amos said in the
statement. U.S. sales will be little changed, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  