-- Algo Trader RSJ Sees Bond, Stock Expansion on Correlation
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-10-23T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/algo-trader-rsj-sees-bond-stock-expansion-on-correlation.html
RSJ AS, the largest algorithmic
trader on NYSE Euronext’s Liffe derivatives platform, plans to
diversify into cash equities, bonds and  interest-rate swaps  as
correlations between financial markets tighten.  RSJ’s goal is to start dealing in the classes in the first
half of 2013, Bronislav Kandrik, head of trading, said in a
telephone interview from the company’s headquarters in Prague.
The firm, already active in stock derivatives such as futures
and options, uses computers to make trading decisions.  “Our aim is to expand into new markets,” Kandrik said.
“The economy affects all instruments. For a market maker, not
to see a big change in one market can be dangerous.”  Founded in the Czech town of Pilsen in 1994, RSJ has used
computer-trading technology to grow into one of the biggest
market makers on London-based Liffe,  CME Group Inc. (CME)  in  Chicago 
and Deutsche Boerse AG’s Eurex in Frankfurt. RSJ trades about 1
million lots a day in futures and other derivatives, Kandrik
said. About 70 million futures and options contracts change
hands daily on exchanges worldwide, according to the Futures
Industry Association.  Computer-driven transactions and high-frequency trading
have come under increased scrutiny after the so-called flash
crash in May 2010, when the Dow Jones Industrial Average briefly
lost almost 1,000 points. While high-frequency traders didn’t
cause the rout, their habit of buying and selling rapidly led to
the sudden removal of liquidity from  futures markets , kicking
off a related plunge in stocks, a report by the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission said in September 2010.  ‘Robotic Car’  While some policy makers say HFT disadvantages smaller
market participants and boosts volatility, Kandrik said
electronic trading makes markets more efficient.  “It’s like robotic car building,” said Kandrik. “Before
robotic car building, everything was built manually. Now we have
a lot of robots helping and it has made the process more
efficient and cheaper.”  European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said on Sept. 13 that HFT is an example of financial
innovation that can’t be controlled and should be banned. The
European Parliament backed a range of curbs on the practice at a
Sept. 26 vote, including a rule that orders must be kept in the
market for at least half a second before they are canceled.  Knight Loss  In the U.S., the SEC is also working to bolster regulations
after  Knight Capital (KCG)  Group Inc. suffered a $440 million trading
loss on Aug. 1 that almost put the market marker out of
business. Knight’s problems were a further setback for the
infrastructure of an equity market still reeling from Facebook
Inc.’s botched initial public offering and the failed IPO of
Bats Global Markets Inc.  An algorithm shouldn’t be allowed to operate in market
conditions which differ significantly from those for which its
trading strategy was calibrated, RSJ’s Kandrik said. Computer-
driven systems can be disabled during extreme events such as the
flash crash, which briefly erased $862 billion from U.S. share
values, he said.  “You can vary the level of engagement,” Kandrik said.
“We traded through the flash crash. We adjust the behavior of
our algorithms based on the situation in the market. There is
always a human watching.”  The Chicago Board Options Exchange Standard & Poor’s 500
Implied Correlation Index climbed to 55.23 at 12:33 p.m. in  New
York  yesterday, up from a four-year low on Oct. 18, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. U.S. stocks moved in unison last
year by the most since at least 1980 as prices tumbled,
according to data compiled by Birinyi Associates Inc.  Bats IPO  Knight Capital , based in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , was
forced to seek a $400 million cash infusion in August after a
trading loss resulting from software that wasn’t properly
installed. In March, Bats, the third-largest U.S. stock exchange
owner, withdrew its IPO after the shares failed to begin trading
on its own platform. The pricing of the first transaction
following Facbeook’s $16 billion stock sale on May 17 took a
half hour longer than Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s forecast.  The SEC in July voted to require exchanges and the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority to build a single system
to monitor and analyze trading activity on U.S. equity and
options markets. The rule mandates a so-called consolidated
audit trail to expedite surveillance across 13 equity exchanges,
10 options markets and more than 200 broker-dealers that execute
stock trades away from public venues.  It would be “very difficult” for regulators to vet the
computer code used in the algorithms of all electronic trading
firms operating in financial markets, Kandrik said. “Companies
should explain their risk methodology and checks in as much
detail as possible. We have always been transparent about this
with our regulator and clearers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  