-- Ameristar Pitches Rival Massachusetts Casino Development
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-10-23T18:51:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/ameristar-pitches-rival-massachusetts-casino-development.html
Ameristar Casinos Inc. (ASCA)  announced
details for a planned resort in western Massachusetts, with a
development it said could be open 18 months ahead of rivals.  The Las Vegas-based regional casino operator unveiled the
design for a $910 million resort in Springfield, 90 miles (145
kilometers) west of  Boston . The project would create 2,000 union
construction jobs and 2,300 permanent ones, the company said in
a e-mailed statement today.  “Ameristar owns all 40 acres, which have been cleared and
are immediately ready for construction,” Gordon Kanofsky,
Ameristar’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.
“With no displacement of existing residents or businesses, we
will have a 12- to 18-month head start on other proposals.”  Ameristar is among at least four companies seeking the one
license to operate a casino in the western part of the state
since the legislature legalized casino gambling last year.  MGM
Resorts International (MGM) ,  Penn National Gaming Inc. (PENN)  and the Mohegan
Tribal Gaming Authority are also seeking the western license,
according to Bloomberg Industries research. Two other casinos
will be permitted, in the eastern and central parts of
Massachusetts.  Applicants face a two-step approval process with an initial
deadline in December, according to the Massachusetts Gaming
Commission. The local communities involved must also approve the
projects.  The population and household income in the greater
Springfield market is larger than that of  St. Louis , a market
where Ameristar operates, the company said in a presentation.
The six casinos produced $1.1 billion in revenue in the St.
Louis market in 2011, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Casinos in Massachusetts are expected to take business from
operators in neighboring Connecticut. Foxwoods Resort Casino’s
venue in Mashantucket, Connecticut, gets 31 percent of its
customers from Massachussets, while Mohegan Sun’s venue in
Montville, Connecticut, gets 18 percent, according to a
presentation by Mohegan Sun.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  