-- Americans Support More Waste Water Reuse, GE Survey Shows
-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s   a n d   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-10-24T00:16:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/americans-support-more-waste-water-reuse-ge-survey-shows.html
The majority of Americans polled
support re-using water to help protect the environment and stem
scarcity issues forecast for 36 U.S. states next year, according
to a  General Electric Co. (GE)  consumer survey.  Two-thirds of Americans are positive about water reuse for
activities that require significant amounts of non-drinking
water such as crop irrigation, washing cars and landscaping, GE
said today in a statement. About 3,000 consumers were surveyed
in the U.S., China and  Singapore , GE said.  The report shows “stronger support for water recycling
than we expected,” Heiner Markhoff, president and chief
executive of water and process technologies for GE Power & Water,
said in the statement.  Population growth , urbanization and
industrialization are driving the need for it, he said.  More than 80 percent of Americans support recycled water
for “toilet-to-turf” uses that require non-potable water, the
survey found. Those uses include power generation, industrial
processing and manufacturing and flushing toilets.  Despite their positive perceptions of water reuse,
Americans’ understanding of the water lifecycle lags behind that
of those surveyed in  China  and Singapore,” GE said. “For
example, 31 percent of Americans don’t know where their water
comes from compared to only 14 percent of those in China and 15
percent of those in Singapore.”  Federal Target  The WateReuse Association, an Alexandria, Virginia-based
trade group, is advocating a non-mandated federal target for
sustainable sources of water, including recycling, said Jon
Freedman, co-chairman of the association’s reuse committee and
global government relations leader for GE’s water unit.  “We would like to see an aspirational goal for reuse,”
Freedman said today during an interview on the sidelines of the
Bloomberg New Energy Finance Water Leadership Forum in Del Mar,
California. “We are socializing the idea on  Capitol Hill .”  Increasing water reuse offers a solution to growing
scarcity issues, GE said, as two-thirds of the world’s
population, or 5.3 billion people, may be vulnerable to water
shortages by 2025, according to United Nations reports.  Almost a fifth of the world’s freshwater resources are used
for industrial purposes and about 70 percent for agriculture,
U.N. studies show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ehren Goossens in  New York  at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  