-- Gold Fields Fires 8,500 Miners as Employers Seek Pay Deal
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2012-10-23T17:28:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/anglogold-restarts-mines-as-s-africa-producers-prepare-for-deal.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  fired 8,500 workers
at a South African mine operated by the fourth-biggest producer
of the metal after they failed to heed an ultimatum to abandon a
strike and employers, and unions sought to reach a deal on pay.  Workers dismissed from the KDC East mine may appeal, Willie Jacobsz, a spokesman for Gold Fields, said today by phone.  A spate of strikes that began in the platinum industry and
spread to gold, chrome and iron-ore operations have hurt South
African companies already grappling with rising costs and helped
push up international prices for precious metals. Workers have
walked out without heeding unions or laws on resolving disputes,
prompting producers to issue threats to dismiss employees.  AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG) , the biggest African producer of the
metal, has issued a “final call” for all striking workers to
return to their duties by midday tomorrow. Those who don’t will
be fired, the company said yesterday in a statement.  AngloGold, which gets about a third of its production from
South  Africa , shut all of its sites in the country last month.  The company and its peers improved a wage offer last week
after unauthorized stoppages led to about a 40 percent drop in
the nation’s gold operations, hurting Africa’s biggest economy.  Strikes at AngloGold have entered their fifth week, with
the company losing about 32,000 ounces a week, Chief Executive
Officer  Mark Cutifani  said on a call with investors yesterday.
Before the unrest, the company had expected to reduce the size
of some mines within five years as resources were depleted,
according to the CEO, who said that “areas that were marginal
in the first place will be under extra scrutiny.”  Restarting Mines  The company has managed to restart some mines as unions and
the industry moved closer to a deal to end the wave of strikes.  More than 90 percent of workers are back at the Kopanang
and Great Noligwa sites and a first shift has returned to Moab
Khotsong this morning, Alan Fine, a company spokesman, said
today by phone. While 16,500 staff were still out yesterday,
“there are signs that some more workers are going back.”  Anglogold, Gold Fields and Harmony Gold Mining Co. agreed
in principle on a deal and plan to sign an accord Oct. 25, the
Chamber of Mines said in a statement late yesterday. The
 Chamber , an industry body that negotiates on behalf of
employers, met labor groups including the National Union of
Mineworkers after the offer was improved last week.  “Today’s discussions were positive and there is a
collective resolve by all the parties to end the unprotected
action as soon as possible,” Elize Strydom, the Chamber’s chief
negotiator, said in yesterday’s statement.  As many as 46 people died in August, including dozens shot
by police, as staff protested at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana platinum
complex before it agreed to pay gains of as much as 22 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  