-- Archer-Daniels-Midland to Sell 23% Stake in Gruma to Chico Pardo
-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h   a n d   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-10-23T02:51:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/archer-daniels-midland-to-sell-23-stake-in-gruma-to-chico-pardo.html
Archer-Daniels-Midland Co. (ADM) , the corn
processor offering A$2.7 billion ($2.8 billion) for  Australia ’s
 GrainCorp Ltd. (GNC) , reached a preliminary agreement with Mexican
businessman Fernando Chico Pardo to sell its 23 percent stake in
 Gruma SAB. (GRUMAB)   “This preliminary agreement is non-binding and is subject
to negotiation of a definitive agreement, approval by ADM’s and
Gruma’s boards of directors,” Jackie Anderson, ADM spokeswoman,
said today in an e-mail. The transaction also needs certain
regulatory and other approvals, she said.  ADM’s stake in Gruma is worth about $397 million, said a
person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be named
because the talks are private.  In addition to its Gruma share holdings, ADM has minority
ownership in other joint ventures with the San Pedro Garza
Garcia, Mexico-based company, according to the e-mailed
statement. ADM has 131 million shares of Gruma, the world’s
largest producer of corn and wheat tortillas, according data
compiled by Bloomberg.  If the deal is completed, Chico Pardo will become Gruma’s
second-largest stakeholder, according to data. Chico Pardo is
the chairman of  Grupo Aeroportuario del Sureste SAB , an operator
of airports in southern  Mexico .  Bank of America Corp. is acting as financial adviser to
ADM, Anderson wrote in the e-mail.  ADM’s preliminary agreement with Chico Pardo to sell its
investment in Gruma was earlier reported by the Financial Times.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net ;
Carlos Manuel Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  