-- Argentina Plans Regulatory Overhaul to Spur Investments
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o   a n d   S i l v i a   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-10-23T20:44:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/argentina-to-toughen-market-rules-in-bid-to-spark-investment-1-.html
The  Merval index  fell the most in 11
months as  Argentina ’s plan to overhaul securities rules and
force insurers to spend more on industrial and infrastructure
projects fueled concern about government intervention.  The benchmark equity gauge retreated 3.6 percent to
2,368.96 at the close in Buenos Aires, its steepest decline
since November 2011.  “It’s scaring away the few investors we had left,”
Guillermo Maresco, a trader at Buenos Aires-based brokerage
Nacion Bursatil, said in a telephone interview. “The  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  is also falling, so we’re facing the perfect
storm.”  A bill will be sent to Congress that replaces self-
regulation of issuers and brokers with a greater role for the
regulatory agency known as CNV. The proposal would also make
trading cheaper, interconnect markets and eliminate the
requirement for brokers to be stakeholders in exchanges, Economy
Minister Hernan Lorenzino said yesterday in televised comments.  “We want to generate a big change in line with major
global markets and the expansion of channels that the general
public can access,” the minister said. “We are going to
propose that the markets themselves operate as corporations and
have the obligation to propagate their activities.”  Grupo Financiero Galicia SA (GGAL) , Argentina’s largest consumer
lender, fell 4.3 percent, while  YPF SA (YPFD) , the country’s largest
oil company, retreated 4.7 percent. All 13 stocks that form the
index fell.  Government Intervention  Since her re-election a year ago, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  has limited imports, ordered insurers to
repatriate investments and banned the buying of dollars for
savings, real-estate transactions and the repayment of local
debt. Speaking in a televised national address yesterday, she
said the bill will force insurance companies to raise their
investments in projects to 7 billion pesos ($1.48 billion) next
year from the current 88 million pesos.  “We’re going to modify the destination of insurers’
phenomenal amount of funds so they go from short-term
investments of financial nature to long-term investments of
productive nature,” Fernandez said.  Insurance companies, which hold 64 billion pesos, will be
forced to invest from 5 percent to as much as 30 percent of
their funds in such projects, she said. Their investments will
be determined by a committee led by the  Economy Ministry ,
according to today’s official gazette.  Frontier Market  Argentina became the only major Latin American market
classified as “frontier” in June 2009 when  MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  removed
the country from its benchmark emerging-market index, citing
 capital controls . The demotion also followed Fernandez’s seizure
of about $24 billion in assets held by private pension funds,
the country’s biggest stockholders.  The capital market bill will give the CNV greater faculties
to create new instruments that will enable retail investors to
participate in investment projects, Lorenzino said. It will also
allow state agencies to share information.  “We are promoting state intervention in  capital markets  to
protect investors,” he said.  The securities regulator and universities will have a role
in credit ratings, he said. Fernandez described the credit
rating industry as a “fraud.”  She vowed to defend Argentina’s interests against an
investment fund behind a petition to seize an Argentine naval
vessel in  Ghana .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camila Russo in  Buenos Aires  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net ;
Silvia Martinez in Buenos Aires at 
 smartinez19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  