-- Guillen Ousted as Marlins Manager After Team Finishes Last
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-10-24T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/marlins-fire-guillen-as-manager-after-finishing-29-games-back.html
Ozzie Guillen was ousted as manager
of the  Miami Marlins  after the Major League Baseball team
finished last in the National League’s five-team East division.  The franchise hasn’t qualified for the playoffs since
beating the  New York Yankees  in the 2003  World Series  as the
 Florida Marlins . The team finished this season with a 69-93
record, 29 games behind division-champion Washington, after
signing shortstop  Jose Reyes  and other high-priced free agents
and moving into a $515 million retractable-roof stadium.  Guillen, who led the  Chicago White Sox  to a World Series
title in 2005, spent one season with the Marlins and had three
years left on his contract.  “After careful consideration following the disappointment
of the 2012 season, we decided to dismiss Ozzie,” Larry Beinfest, the Marlins’ president of baseball operations, said in
a statement. “Our managerial search begins immediately and our
hope is that a new manager, along with roster improvements, will
restore a winning culture.”  Guillen’s relationship with team owner Jeffrey Loria was
tumultuous. Loria suspended Guillen for five games this season
for remarks supporting former Cuban President Fidel Castro.
Guillen later apologized.  On Sept. 21, Guillen criticized the team’s performance to
reporters while in New York and said Loria needed to “look in
the mirror” and ask why the team has had so many managers. The
Marlins have had six managers since Loria bought the team in
2002.  Guillen, 48, signed a four-year, $10 million contract in
September to manage the Marlins, who opened their stadium in
Miami’s Little Havana section this season.  Free Agents  The team spent almost $200 million on free agents this year,
including $106 million on Reyes and $58 million on pitcher  Mark Buehrle , and still failed to challenge for a playoff spot.  Guillen also feuded with players throughout the season.
Relief pitcher Heath Bell, who signed a $27 million free-agent
contract before the season, told Miami radio station WQAM on
Sept. 25 that the team needed a manager that everybody
“respects and looks up to.” Bell, who lost his closer’s job
with the Marlins, was traded to the  Arizona  Diamondbacks on Oct.
20.  In April, Guillen, a Venezuela native who has lived in the
Miami area for a decade, was quoted in Time magazine as saying
“I love Fidel Castro.” He then clarified his comments,
according to the magazine.  “I respect  Fidel Castro ,” Guillen told Time. “You know
why? A lot of people have wanted to kill Fidel Castro for the
last 60 years, but that mother-----r is still here.”  The population of Miami-Dade County, which helped fund the
Marlins’ ballpark after a decade of negotiations, is 34 percent
Cuban, according to the 2010  U.S. Census . In the city of Miami,
where Marlins Park is located, there are 137,301 people of Cuban
origin out of a total population of 399,457, also 34 percent.
Miami-Dade Mayor Carlos Gimenez was among those who condemned
Guillen’s remarks.  Guillen was manager of the White Sox for eight years,
compiling a 678-617 record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  