-- ARM Sees Record Order Backlog on Demand for Mobile Chips
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-10-23T07:09:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/arm-sees-record-order-backlog-on-demand-for-mobile-chips-1-.html
ARM Holdings Plc (ARM) , whose chip designs
power  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, said it started the current quarter
with a record order backlog after third-quarter sales rose more
than estimated by analysts.  Revenue in the three months through September rose 19
percent to 144.6 million pounds ($231 million), the Cambridge,
England-based company said today in a statement. The average
estimate by analysts compiled by Bloomberg was for sales of
139.4 million pounds. Pretax profit gained 29 percent to 55.3
million pounds.  ARM is benefiting from demand for semiconductors used in
mobile phones and tablet computers. Apple’s iPad is based on ARM
technology, as are most tablets on sale today. The shift in
consumer spending to tablets is hurting makers of processors for
traditional personal computers.  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  last
week forecast fourth-quarter sales that will miss analysts’
estimates and said it will cut 15 percent of its staff.  ARM predicts a “strong” fourth quarter for licensing
revenue as it “enters the final quarter of 2012 with record
order backlog and a robust opportunity pipeline,” it said.  The stock rose as much as 1.8 percent to 605 pence in
London trading and was up 1.1 percent as of 8:03 a.m. The shares
have risen 0.4 percent this year through yesterday, valuing the
company at 8.3 billion pounds.  “As we move into an ever more connected world of mobile
computing, cloud-based networks and the Internet-of-Things, ARM
is seeing increased demand for its high-performance and low-
power technology,” the company said. “This demand is helping
to drive ARM’s licensing revenue.”  ARM predicted fourth-quarter revenues in U.S. dollars to be
in line with market expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  