-- Armstrong’s Results to Be Erased From All WADA-Sanctioned Events
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-10-24T04:01:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/armstrong-s-results-from-all-wada-sanctioned-events-to-be-erased.html
Lance Armstrong ’s competition
results will be erased from the record books of every event
sanctioned by the  World Anti-Doping Agency .  The cyclist also will forfeit results in other events and
sports that follow the code of the Montreal-based agency after
his record seven  Tour de France  titles were stripped by the U.S.
Anti-Doping Agency on Oct. 10, Annie Skinner, a spokeswoman for
USADA, said in an e-mail.  Armstrong, a 41-year-old American who has denied doping and
said he never failed a drug test, opted not to challenge USADA
allegations that he used performance-enhancing drugs throughout
his career, leading the  Colorado Springs , Colorado-based agency
to ban him for life. Two days ago, the International Cycling
Union said it would not appeal USADA’s ruling.  “Armstrong was aware that, by choosing to not contest the
charges, the sanction would include the loss of results as a
result of his doping in any sport that is a signatory to the
code,” Skinner said in an e-mail.  Mary Wittenberg, whose  New York  Road Runners organizes the
New York City Marathon, said two days ago that Armstrong’s
results probably would be removed from the race’s archives.  “Lance doesn’t have a place in running because we will
stick to the rules and support USADA,” Wittenberg, president
and chief executive officer of NYRR, said in an interview.  Armstrong finished the 2006 NYC Marathon in 2 hours, 59
minutes, 36 seconds and shaved almost 13 minutes off that result
with a time of 2:46:43 the following year for 214th place among
men.  Other sanctioned event results that he’ll lose include the
Boston Marathon, which he ran in 2008; Ironman triathlon
performances; and a career full of cycling races.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  