-- Philippine Peso, Won Gain in Asia on Japan Stimulus Speculation
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e   a n d   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-10-23T09:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/asian-currencies-approach-eight-month-high-on-japan-easing-bets.html
The Philippine peso and South Korean
won gained in Asia on speculation possible stimulus by  Japan 
will spur inflows to higher-yielding assets. India’s rupee
declined as regional stocks dropped for a third day.  Exports from Japan slid 10.3 percent in September from a
year earlier, increasing the odds the central bank will ease
monetary policy at its next review on Oct. 30. The Bank of Japan
last expanded its asset-buying program by 10 trillion yen ($125
billion) on Sept. 19. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares fell
0.4 percent.  “Expectations of looser monetary policy in Japan are
increasing risk appetite,” said Chua Hak Bin, an economist at
Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  Singapore . “With the Hong Kong
and  Thailand  markets shut for public holidays, trading is
expected to be quiet today.”  The peso appreciated 0.2 percent to 41.318 per dollar at
the close in  Manila , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The won gained 0.1 percent to 1,102.97,  China ’s  yuan  rose 0.11
percent to 6.2480, while the rupee weakened 0.3 percent to
53.615. The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks
the region’s most-active currencies, was little changed,
retreating from near the highest level in eight months.  The won touched a 13-month high as the outcome of Spanish
regional elections boosted optimism  Europe  will be able to
contain its debt crisis. The euro rose for the first time in
three days yesterday as Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy’s
People’s Party won 41 of the 75 seats in the regional assembly
in Galicia, clearing one obstacle in the way of a financial
bailout for Spain. The yen weakened past 80 against the dollar
today for the first time in three months.  Taiwanese Data  “The euro gaining after Spain’s regional elections, and
the weakening of the yen, a typical safe asset, are supporting
Asian currencies today including the won,” said Han Sung Min, a
Seoul-based currency trader at Busan Bank.  Taiwan’s industrial  output  rose 3 percent in September from
a year earlier, data showed today, compared with a 1.9 percent
increase in August and the 6.5 percent increase forecast by
economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The island’s dollar closed
little changed at 29.328 against its U.S. counterpart after
being up as much as 0.3 percent earlier.  Thai exports probably shrank for a fourth month in
September, while South Korea’s  economy  grew 1.7 percent in the
third quarter, the slowest pace in three years, separate
Bloomberg News surveys showed before official data due this week.  The rupee fell on speculation importers stepped up
purchases of the dollar to meet payments as the market will be
shut tomorrow for a local holiday, according to Vikas Babu, a
currency trader at Andhra Bank in Mumbai.  Elsewhere,  Malaysia ’s ringgit weakened 0.1 percent to
3.0544 per dollar. Indonesia’s rupiah dropped 0.1 percent to
9,616, while Vietnam’s dong was steady at 20,853. Financial
markets in Hong Kong and Thailand are closed today for holidays.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in  Seoul  at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net 
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  