-- Master Blenders Quarterly Revenue Misses Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-10-23T09:54:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/master-blenders-first-quarter-revenue-gains-on-price-increases.html
D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV (DE) , the
coffee and tea company spun off by Sara Lee Corp. in June,
reported first-quarter revenue that lagged analyst estimates as
price increases in  Germany  led consumers to reduce purchases.  Revenue fell 1.5 percent to 645 million euros ($841
million) in the three months through September as volume dropped
2.7 percent, the Amsterdam-based company said today in a
statement. Analysts had expected sales of 664 million euros.
Prices boosted growth by 2 percent. The shares fell as much as
6.3 percent, the steepest intraday decline since Aug. 2.  The company said it cut Senseo prices in Germany by 8
percent, reversing price increases after finding they were “too
aggressive.” That outweighed the introduction of new products
in the quarter as Master Blenders has revamped its Senseo system
with new packaging and flavors and introduced L’OR capsules that
work in  Nestle SA (NESN) ’s Nespresso machines in  Australia .  “Given the quantum of innovation in the quarter, a 2.7
percent volume decline can only be described as disappointing,”
wrote Jeff Stent, an analyst at Exane BNP, who had expected
volume growth of 2 percent.  The stock traded 4.8 percent lower at 9.33 euros as of
11:27 a.m. in Amsterdam. The shares have gained 12 percent since
June 12, the first day they traded.  Keeps Targets  Master Blenders reiterated its guidance for the year,
saying revenue will probably increase by 3 percent to 5 percent
in the 12 months through June 2013, while its margin for
earnings before interest and taxation will widen by as much as 2
percentage points from 12.3 percent in the past fiscal year. The
company also expects “low single-digit” volume growth this
year.  The maker of Douwe Egberts coffee started selling its
Sarista single-serve machine that makes coffee from whole beans
in the Netherlands this month. Chief Executive Officer Michiel
Herkemij said the first indications of consumer interest have
been “highly encouraging.”  Master Blenders said Oct. 11 that accounting irregularities
in  Brazil  would reduce its net income by 14 million euros less
than previously indicated. The irregularities involve
uncollectible accounts receivable and incorrect recognition of
sales, according to the company. The maker of Pickwick tea
discovered the irregularities after the end of Sara Lee’s fiscal
year as new management conducted an investigation of the
accounts.  Brazil Shake-up  Master Blenders said Juan Carlos Dalto will become chief
executive officer of Brazilian operations on Nov. 1. The company
also plans to decide soon whether to publish its report into the
irregularities.  Master Blenders has no plans for acquisitions, executives
said on a conference call. The company also said it’s
“optimistic” that it can turn around volume declines in
western European markets.  Master Blenders said Oct. 19 that Joh. A. Benckiser, the
investment firm run by Bart Becht, boosted its stake in the
company to more than 15 percent from 12.2 percent.  “JAB is acting opportunistically and I wouldn’t be
surprised to see more going on amid the weakness in the stock,”
said Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital Markets in Zurich.  JAB has previously indicated that it planned to remain a
minority investor, though it has said it may increase its stake
in Master Blenders. JAB bolstered its coffee holdings this year
by agreeing to buy  Peet’s Coffee & Tea Inc. (PEET)  for about $1
billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva  at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  