-- Aussie Gains on Faster Inflation, China Manufacturing
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-10-24T06:00:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/aussie-kiwi-remain-lower-as-stock-drops-curb-demand-for-yield.html
The Australian dollar climbed
against all of its major peers after a private report signaled
that a slowdown in Chinese manufacturing is abating, improving
prospects for exports to  Asia ’s biggest economy.  The so-called Aussie snapped a four-day drop after data
showed a faster-than-estimated increase in  Australia ’s consumer
price index, easing expectations the  Reserve Bank  will cut
 interest rates . New Zealand’s currency was 0.3 percent from a
one-month low as Asian stocks extended global declines.  “The Aussie will continue to grind higher,” said Greg Gibbs, a senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in  Singapore . “The CPI and the Chinese PMI are both
important data points, and both are better-than-expected,” he
said, referring to the purchasing managers’ index.  Australia’s currency added 0.5 percent to $1.0311 as of
4:42 p.m. in Sydney following a four-day, 1.1 percent slide. The
 New Zealand dollar , nicknamed the kiwi, traded at 81.24 U.S.
cents after losing 0.8 percent to 81.16 yesterday when it
touched 81.01, the weakest since Sept. 11.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares declined 0.4 percent,
following a 1.4 percent drop in the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX) 
in  New York .  The upside risk for the Australian dollar is much higher
than expected and it could climb above $1.10, Steve Englander,
global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Citigroup Inc., said
at a conference in Sydney today.  China PMI  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics said their PMI for
 China ’s manufacturing was 49.1 in October on a preliminary
basis, compared with a final reading of 47.9 last month.
September’s result was the 11th-straight month below the 50
level that signals contraction, the longest streak in the
gauge’s eight-year history.  In Australia, a measure called the trimmed mean gauge of
core  consumer prices  rose 2.4 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30 from a year earlier, the Bureau of Statistics said
today. That compares with the 2.2 percent increase estimated by
economists in a  Bloomberg News  survey.  “The market was sort of hoping for a softer-than-expected
number and priced it that way,” David de Garis, a senior
economist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , said in
a Bloomberg Television interview. The Aussie is “looking pretty
solid around those $1.02 levels.”  The RBA, which targets average annual inflation of 2
percent to 3 percent, cut its  overnight cash rate  target by a
quarter-percentage point to 3.25 percent on Oct. 2.  Overnight-index swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show
traders see a 73.1 percent chance policy makers will lower the
rate to 3 percent at a Nov. 6 meeting, compared with a 95.4
percent possibility observed yesterday.  Australia’s bonds declined, with  three-year yields  gaining
as much as 8 basis points to 2.64 percent, the highest since
Sept. 24.  Policy Outlook  The Aussie dropped 3.2 percent in the past three months,
the third-worst performer among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by the Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. The yen and dollar had bigger declines during the
period, while the kiwi slipped 0.4 percent.  “Our bias is still that further modest easing from the RBA
is likely to be seen,” said Callum Henderson, the global head
of currency research in Singapore at Standard Chartered Plc.  The Reserve Bank of  New Zealand  will hold a policy meeting
tomorrow. All 17 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News predict
the central bank will leave the official cash rate at 2.5
percent, prolonging a period of record-low borrowing costs that
began in March 2011.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  