-- Aussie Holds 3-Day Drop on RBA Bets Before Price Report
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-10-23T05:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/australian-new-zealand-dollars-touch-one-month-highs-versus-yen.html
Australia ’s dollar held a three-day
loss ahead of consumer price data tomorrow that may show
inflation held near the slowest since 1999, providing scope for
the  Reserve Bank  to cut  interest rates .  The so-called Aussie and  New Zealand ’s currency erased
early gains against the greenback as Asian shares turned lower,
damping demand for higher-yielding assets. Both touched one-
month highs against the yen on speculation the  Bank of Japan (8301) 
will ease  monetary policy  as early as this month.  “Expectations are that the RBA is going to cut rates
again,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist at Gain
Capital Group LLC in  New York . The prices report tomorrow
“could reinforce expectations of a rate cut, and that should
weigh on the Aussie.”  The so-called Aussie was little changed at $1.0324 as of
4:41 p.m. in Sydney after losing 0.6 percent in the previous
three sessions. The  New Zealand dollar  slid 0.1 percent to 81.69
U.S. cents, trimming a 0.3 percent gain yesterday.  The Australian dollar earlier reached as high as 82.71 yen
while the kiwi touched 65.47 yen, both the highest levels since
Sept. 19. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index of shares slipped 0.3
percent, set for a third-straight loss.  The so-called trimmed mean gauge of core consumer prices in
Australia probably rose 2.2 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30 from a year earlier, a Bloomberg News survey of
economists showed. That compares with a 2 percent increase in
the previous quarter, the slowest pace since June 1999.  Mining Boom  The  Reserve Bank of Australia , which targets average annual
inflation of 2 percent to 3 percent, reduced the overnight cash
rate target by a quarter percentage point to 3.25 percent on
Oct. 2.  Overnight-index swaps data compiled by Bloomberg show
traders see a 99.6 percent chance policy makers will lower the
rate further to 3 percent at their next meeting on Nov. 6.  Heather Ridout , an RBA board member, said today that
Australia’s mining boom has become softer though it isn’t over.
Monetary policy hasn’t lost its teeth, Ridout said at a
conference in Sydney.  Australia expects to issue A$45 billion ($46 billion) of
bonds in 2012-2013, an increase of A$10 billion from the amount
predicted at the time of the May budget, the Australian Office
of Financial Management said in an e-mailed statement today.  The nation’s government bonds fell, with the 10-year yield
rising four basis points to 3.18 percent. It gained to 3.24
percent last week, the highest since Sept. 24.  Monetary Policy  New Zealand’s central bank will probably leave the official
cash rate at a record low of 2.5 percent at a meeting this week,
economists forecast.  The country plans to sell at least NZ$1 billion ($817
million) in inflation-linked debt by syndication. The 2 percent
September 2025 security is expected to be priced “in the near
future, subject to market conditions,” sale manager UBS AG said
in an e-mailed statement.  In  Japan , government data due Oct. 26 will probably show
that consumer prices excluding fresh food declined in September
for a fifth-straight month, according the median estimate of
economists gathered by Bloomberg. That’s far short of the
central bank’s goal for inflation of 1 percent. The BOJ will
hold a policy meeting on Oct. 30.  “Because of higher yields, Australia’s dollar is still
preferred over the yen,” said Takuya Kawabata, a researcher at
Gaitame.com Research Institute Ltd. in  Tokyo , a unit of Japan’s
largest currency margin company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  