-- Australian Lawmaker Thomson’s Home Raided Amid Corruption Probe
-- B y   E d w a r d   J o h n s o n
-- 2012-10-23T23:40:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/australian-lawmaker-thomson-s-home-raided-amid-corruption-probe.html
Australian lawmaker  Craig Thomson ,
whose survival in parliament is crucial to Prime Minister  Julia
Gillard ’s minority government, said police investigating claims
of corruption at the union where he used to work raided his home
today and seized documents.  “I have done nothing wrong,” Thomson told reporters. “We
are fully cooperating with police in relation to this
investigation.”  Thomson, who was national secretary of the Health Services
Union before becoming a lawmaker in 2007, faces allegations he
used a union credit card to pay for prostitutes. He told
parliament in May that he was subject to intimidation at the
union and that a fellow official had threatened to ruin his
political career.  Gillard, who ordered Thomson to step down from her  Labor
Party  while the allegations are investigated, still needs his
support in the 150-seat lower house of parliament to pass
legislation. If he resigned or was convicted of a charge
carrying a jail term, the government -- trailing in opinion
polls -- may face an attempt from the opposition to force
national elections before they are due November 2013.  Fair Work  Australia , the nation’s workplace tribunal, has
found 181 violations of industrial relations laws and union
rules by former and current HSU officials and earlier this year
referred its probe to the public prosecutor.  Thomson, now sitting as an independent lawmaker, has said
he will continue to support the government and hoped to return
to the Labor Party when investigations are completed. If he
resigned from parliament, that would trigger a by-election in
his constituency that could undermine Gillard’s minority
government if  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition won the
seat.  Thomson told reporters today he hoped the police
investigation would be concluded before the end of this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edward Johnson in Sydney at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  