-- BAE Shareholder Revolt Deepens as Invesco Demands Chairman Quit
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-23T11:59:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/bae-shareholder-revolt-deepens-as-invesco-demands-chairman-quit.html
BAE Systems Plc (BA/) ’s biggest
shareholder intensified its opposition by calling for the
resignation of Chairman Dick Olver in the wake of the failed
merger with European Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co.  Invesco Ltd. (IVZ) , which which holds 13.4 percent of BAE shares,
sent a letter to management in which it asked Olver to quit and
also demanded the departure of independent director Peter Mason,
a spokesman for the U.S. fund said today. BAE said its board
remains “fully supportive” of its directors.  The letter escalates a rift between  Europe ’s largest
defense company and its biggest shareholder, which publicly
opposed the proposed merger with EADS, saying it made little
strategic and financial sense. The companies scrapped the plan
this month after failing to win backing from European
governments, with Berlin in particular opposing the deal.  Even before the merger plan, Invesco had criticized BAE
management and its use of cash, asking the company deploy more
funds for buybacks and dividends instead of acquisitions, two
people familiar with the correspondence said. BAE said today
that it’s “in regular dialog with all our major investors and
we listen carefully to the views of all our shareholders.”  BAE and Paris-based EADS had struggled to warm their
investor base to the planned combination. EADS shares fell in
the weeks after the proposal was unveiled on Sept. 12, and BAE
investors voiced discontent over the prospect of a diluted
portfolio and a lower dividend yield in future years.  No Change  Olver took over as BAE chairman in the middle of 2004 from
Richard Evans, who retired. He previously worked at  BP Plc. (BP/) 
After the merger plan broke down, Olver said that BAE would
revert to its previous strategy. He expressed support for the
management team under Chief Executive Officer Ian King and said
that no personnel changes were planned.  BAE fell as much as 6.10 pence, or 2 percent, to 307.2
pence, and traded at 307.3 pence as of 12:22 p.m. in London,
valuing the company at about 10 billion pounds ($16 billion).
The Financial Times earlier reported that Invesco had sent a
letter demanding senior management changes at BAE.  Separately, ShareSoc, a London-based group representing
individual shareholders, called for Olver and King to step down
“as soon as possible” or risk being opposed at next year’s
annual general meeting. The group, with 2,500 members, called
for the resignations because of the EADS merger talks.  “It was never very clear what benefit BAE shareholders
would get from the deal,” ShareSoc Chairman Roger Lawson said
in a statement. “There has been a failure of ’shareholder
engagement.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in  London  at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  