-- Banks Get Higher Credit Ratings for Business, ECB Study Says
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-10-24T16:30:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/banks-awarded-higher-credit-ratings-for-business-ecb-study-says.html
Big banks are awarded higher grades
from ratings firms because the lenders provide them with
business including evaluating securitized debt, according to a
European Central Bank study.  Larger financial institutions were more likely to receive
better grades, according to the  research  report, which reviewed
about 39,000 quarterly bank ratings from Standard & Poor’s,
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings from 1990 to 2011.  Inflated grades on bonds backed by subprime mortgages
during the housing boom helped ignite the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression when their values plummeted five
years ago. Analysts at the three firms were pressured to give
their stamp of approval to complex investments to win lucrative
business from Wall Street banks, the U.S. Senate Permanent
Subcommittee on Investigations said last year in a report.  The “bias mostly reflects credit rating agencies’
conflicting incentives with respect to large banks,” authors
Harald Hau, Sam Langfield and David Marques-Ibanez wrote in the
report posted on the European Central Bank’s  website , whose
findings don’t represent that of the ECB.  “We strongly disagree with the methodology and conclusions
of the study,” Michael Adler, a spokesman for Moody’s, said in
a telephone interview, declining to give more details.  ‘Cynical Leap’  “The methodology of the study is based on a
misunderstanding of our credit rating definitions and how our
rating criteria are applied,” Mark Tierney, a London-based
spokesman for S&P, wrote in an e-mail, “Neither the evidence
nor the analysis supports the conclusions drawn.”  “To suggest that large bank ratings are conflicted simply
because those banks might also be in a ’stronger client
position’ is in our view a cynical leap -- or what the ECB
report calls a ’hypothesis’,” Dan Noonan, a spokesman for
Fitch, wrote in an e-mail. “No business model is completely
free from potential conflicts of interest -- what matters is how
well they are managed and communicated to the market.”  Big banks systematically obtain more favorable credit
ratings than smaller institutions because of their size and
economic power, according to the study. At the extreme, large
banks might become ‘too big to downgrade’ for a rating company.  ‘Pressure Points’  “One reason why big banks are doing better is that they
have more pressure points on ratings agencies,” Hau said in a
telephone interview from Geneva.  Banks may also enjoy higher ratings because many are
considered to have ‘implicit’ government support.  In 2007, S&P’s structured finance group took in $561
million in revenue, sometimes charging banks more than $1
million to rate a single offering, according to the Senate
panel. About 90 percent of AAA securities backed by subprime
mortgages from 2006 and 2007 were later cut to junk, or below
Baa3 by Moody’s and lower than BBB- at S&P.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Robinson in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 