-- Bank of Canada Keeps Its Benchmark Interest Rate at 1% (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-23T13:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/bank-of-canada-keeps-its-benchmark-interest-rate-at-1-text-.html
Following is the text accompanying
the  Bank of Canada ’s decision to leave its benchmark overnight
rate target at 1 percent. The statement was released today in
Ottawa.  The Bank of Canada today announced that it is maintaining
its target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. The  Bank Rate  is
correspondingly 1 1/4 per cent and the deposit rate is 3/4 per
cent.  The global economy has unfolded broadly as the Bank
projected in its July Monetary Policy Report (MPR). The economic
expansion in the  United States  is progressing at a gradual pace.
 Europe  is in recession and recent indicators point to a continued
contraction. In  China  and other major emerging economies, growth
has slowed somewhat more than expected, though there are signs of
stabilization around current growth rates. Notwithstanding the
slowdown in global economic activity, prices for oil and other
commodities produced in Canada have, on average, increased in
recent months.  Global financial conditions have improved,
supported by aggressive policy actions of major central banks,
but sentiment remains fragile.  In  Canada , while global headwinds continue to restrain
economic activity, domestic factors are supporting a moderate
expansion. Following the recent period of below-potential growth,
the economy is expected to pick up and return to full capacity by
the end of 2013. The Bank continues to project that the expansion
will be driven mainly by growth in consumption and business
investment, reflecting very stimulative domestic financial
conditions. Housing activity is expected to decline from
historically high levels, while the household debt burden is
expected to rise further before stabilizing by the end of the
projection horizon. Canadian exports are projected to pick up
gradually but remain below their pre-recession peak until the
first half of 2014, reflecting weak foreign demand and ongoing
competitiveness challenges.  These challenges include the
persistent strength of the Canadian dollar, which is being
influenced by safe haven flows and spillovers from global
monetary policy.  After taking into account revisions to the National
Accounts, the Bank projects that the economy will grow by 2.2 per
cent in 2012, 2.3 per cent in 2013 and 2.4 per cent in 2014.  Core inflation  has been lower than expected in recent
months, reflecting somewhat softer prices across a wide range of
goods and services.  Core inflation is expected to increase
gradually over coming quarters, reaching 2 per cent by the middle
of 2013 as the economy gradually absorbs the current small degree
of slack, the growth of labour compensation remains moderate and
inflation expectations stay well-anchored. Total CPI inflation
has fallen noticeably below the 2 per cent target, as expected,
and is projected to return to target by the end of 2013, somewhat
later than previously anticipated.  Reflecting all of these factors, the Bank has decided to
maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per cent. Over
time, some modest withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus will
likely be required, consistent with achieving the 2 per cent
inflation target.  The timing and degree of any such withdrawal
will be weighed carefully against global and domestic
developments, including the evolution of imbalances in the
household sector.  Information note:  A full update of the Bank’s outlook for the economy and
inflation, including risks to the projection, will be published
in the MPR on 24 October 2012. The next scheduled date for
announcing the overnight rate target is 4 December 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  