-- Barca, Manchester Utd. Rally to Stay Perfect in Champions League
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-10-23T22:48:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/barcelona-manchester-united-rally-to-win-in-champions-league.html
Barcelona  and Manchester United came
from behind to maintain their perfect records in soccer’s
Champions League, while Chelsea lost 2-1 at Shakhtar Donetsk.  Jordi Alba’s goal in the fourth minute of stoppage time
gave Barcelona a 2-1 win over Celtic last night. Javier Hernandez scored twice as United fought back from two goals down
to beat Braga 3-2.  “Gutted is the word,” Celtic defender Kelvin Wilson said
in an interview with Sky Sports. “We defended with our lives
all game and it looked like we’d done it. It’s never over until
the final whistle with Barca and they proved it.”  Barcelona and United have won all three of their games to
lead their respective groups, where the top two advance to the
round of 16 in  Europe ’s elite club competition.  Chelsea, last season’s winner, was beaten in Ukraine on
goals from Alex Teixeira and Fernandinho, while Italian champion
Juventus tied 1-1 at Nordsjaelland. Bayern Munich beat Lille 1-0,
Valencia won 3-0 at BATE Borisov, Spartak Moscow defeated
Benfica 2-1 and Galatasaray drew 1-1 with Cluj.  Among tonight’s eight games, Manchester City visits Ajax,
Real Madrid travels to Dortmund in a matchup of Spanish and
German champions and Schalke is at Arsenal.  Celtic took the lead at the Camp Nou stadium in the 18th
minute as Georgios Samaras’s header from Charlie Mulgrew’s free
kick went in off Barcelona defender Javier Mascherano.  Messi Denied  Barcelona tied the score just before halftime on a goal
from  Andres Iniesta  and dominated play in the second half only
to be denied by Celtic goalkeeper Fraser Forster, who twice
stopped close-range shots from Lionel Messi.  David Villa hit the post for the home side in the 90th
minute, before Alba won it by tapping in Adriano’s cross.  “I’m bitterly disappointed for the players, but proud as
well,” Celtic manager Neil Lennon told Sky Sports. “This is
the best team in the world and to come here and play like that.
Some people had written us off, but it didn’t surprise me.”  Barcelona, seeking its fourth European Cup in eight seasons,
tops Group G with nine points, four more than Celtic. Spartak
Moscow has three points after its 2-1 win over Benfica in  Russia .  Manchester United also has nine points in Group H following
its comeback at Old Trafford.  Braga jumped out to a 2-0 lead as Alan scored twice in the
opening 20 minutes. Hernandez scored with a header in the 25th
minute, then had a goal disallowed for offside.  Jonny Evans made it 2-2 in the 62nd minute and Mexican
striker Hernandez headed home Tom Cleverley’s cross with 15
minutes left for the victory.  Rescue Act  “It’s been the story of our season at home, starting badly
and conceding goals, but we’ve rescued games,” United manager
Alex Ferguson said in an interview with ITV after his team fell
behind for the eighth time this season.  It was the second time United had won a Champions League
game after trailing by two goals, the first coming in a 3-2 win
at Juventus in 1999, according to Infostrada Sports.  United leads the group by five points over Cluj, which drew
1-1 at Galatasaray.  Shakhtar Donetsk moved atop Group E with seven points
following its win over Chelsea, which has four points.  “We didn’t play well,” Blues defender  David Luiz  told Sky
Sports. “I’m shocked by the performance.”  Shakhtar took the lead after three minutes as Teixeira put
a shot past Petr Cech. The Ukrainian club doubled its lead in
the 52nd minute when Fernandinho scored and held on for the win
after Oscar’s tap-in with two minutes.  Juventus is a point behind Chelsea after rallying for a 1-1
tie with Nordsjaelland in  Denmark . Mikkel Beckmann’s free kick
gave the Danish champion the lead five minutes after halftime
and Mirko Vucinic answered with nine minutes remaining.  Roberto Soldado’s hat trick gave Valencia a 3-0 win over
BATE Borisov that left the teams tied with Bayern Munich in
Group F with six points. Thomas Muller’s first-half penalty kick
gave Bayern the victory at Lille.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  