-- Basil Read Stock Jumps on Disposal of TWP Mining Division
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-10-23T15:42:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/basil-read-stock-jumps-on-disposal-of-twp-mining-division.html
Basil Read Holdings Ltd. (BSR) , a South
African construction company, climbed the most in more than
seven years after saying it sold the TWP Holdings mining and
services business to a unit of Australia’s  WorleyParsons Ltd. (WOR)   Basil Read surged 18 percent, the most since July 2005, to
10 rand at the close in Johannesburg.  WorleyParsons RSA Group Pty Ltd. will pay Basil Read 900
million rand ($102 million) in cash for TWP. The deal excludes a
number of TWP divisions, including Basil Read Matomo Projects
Pty Ltd., which was formed after Basil Read bought TWP three
years ago, the Boksburg-based company said in a statement today.  Proceeds will be used reduce debt, fund growth and position
the company “for the planned local-infrastructure roll-out
which we believe will build momentum during 2013,” Chief
Executive Officer Marius Heyns said in the statement. “We will
be able to concentrate on our core business with increased
emphasis on our special projects.”  Basil Read’s 30-day  historical volatility , a measure of
stock swings, jumped to 54.31 from 24.41 the previous trading
day. The FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index’s  30-day volatility 
measure was at 12.5 versus 12.23 previously. A higher reading
means the price of an asset can move dramatically in a short
period. About 2 million Basil Read shares traded, more than nine
times the daily average in the past three months.  “The transaction creates value for our shareholders and
fits perfectly into our evolving strategy of increased focus”
on engineering, procurement and construction, Heyns said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  