-- Baupost Co-Portfolio Manager Wagner to Start His Own Firm
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n   a n d   G i l l i a n   W e e
-- 2012-10-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/baupost-s-wagner-to-leave-as-firm-s-co-portfolio-manager.html
Herb Wagner, the Baupost Group LLC
executive appointed as Seth Klarman’s co-portfolio manager two
years ago, will leave the firm at the end of 2012 to start his
own investment company, according to a letter sent to the hedge
fund’s clients yesterday.  Wagner, who has worked at Baupost for 13 years, plans to
manage his own wealth initially and eventually take in money
from outsiders, according to the letter, portions of which were
obtained by Bloomberg News.  Klarman, 55, doesn’t plan on replacing Wagner in the near
future, according to the letter. Jim Mooney was named co-head of
Boston-based Baupost’s public investments along with Wagner and
will become sole head on Jan. 1, Klarman wrote. Baupost, which
Klarman started in 1983, oversees about $25 billion.  “Herb’s departure will create opportunities for many
others to take on new challenges and greater responsibility,
continuing our focus on progress and succession planning,”
Klarman wrote in the letter. “Baupost has lost senior, highly
talented, team members before, and each time has emerged
stronger.”  Klarman said in his letter that change is part of the
“natural course of events” at investment firms given that
employees are well-paid and highly motivated. In the past week,
Greg Coffey, co-chief investment officer of Moore Capital
Management LLC’s European business, left the hedge fund industry
after a trading career spanning almost two decades, and Thomas
Steyer said he is quitting Farallon Capital Management LLC, the
firm he founded, to focus on public service.  ‘Highly Successful’  Mooney is a member of the Baupost management committee in
 Boston  and head of Baupost’s London office. He has overseen many
of the firm’s “highly successful” distressed-debt investments
in recent years, said Klarman, who had discussed Mooney’s new
role with Wagner for about a year. The move was slated for the
end of 2012, according to the letter.  Klarman meets regularly with each of the 10 Baupost
partners to discuss the firm, teams and plans, the firm said. It
was during one of those meeting in late September that Wagner
said he wanted to start his own firm.  “Nothing in the portfolio was bought or sold without my
own involvement and approval,” Klarman wrote. “My intense
focus on the portfolio has remained constant since the firm was
founded, and will remain so in the future.”  Diana DeSocio, a spokeswoman for the firm, confirmed the
contents of the letter. Wagner didn’t respond to telephone and
e-mail messages.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in  New York  at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  