-- BBC Chief Failed to Ask Questions About Savile Probe
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-10-23T17:21:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/bbc-supports-police-in-probe-of-pedophile-ring-accusatio.html
British Broadcasting Corp. Director
General George Entwistle said today that he didn’t follow up on
warnings that TV star Jimmy Savile was being investigated for
sexual abuse by one of the broadcaster’s programs.  He was protecting journalists’ independence when he
declined to act on News Director Helen Boaden’s tip that the
“Newsnight” investigation would interfere with Christmas
tributes to the late entertainer, Entwistle said at a
parliamentary hearing today.  His hands-off approach drew criticism from politicians,
including Labour lawmaker Paul Farrelly, who said Entwistle is
“starting to sound like  James Murdoch ,” referring to News
Corp.’s deputy operating chief who last year said he failed to
follow up on phone-hacking allegations at British newspapers.  Farrelly also criticized Entwistle’s “lamentable lack of
knowledge” when he was unable to give data for historical
sexual harassment complaints at the BBC, deferring to the
broadcaster’s current investigations.  The BBC is under pressure for honoring Savile when its own
“Newsnight” program was probing the child abuse allegations.
Murdoch and his father, News Corp. Chief Executive Officer
Rupert Murdoch, told the same committee last year that they had
relied on managers and police investigations to reassure them
that hacking wasn’t widespread instead of mounting their own
probes.  No Interest  “I didn’t seek further information and obviously this is
something I reflected on a lot,” Entwistle told the committee
probing the  BBC ’s response to revelations that Savile, who
fronted programs including “Jim’ll Fix It,” may have abused
scores of children. Entwistle said that he was afraid
“excessive interest” could be construed as pressure on
journalists.  Boaden mentioned the program at a lunch on Dec. 2 and the
executive said she would let him know if the story was going to
go ahead, Entwistle told the U.K. Parliament’s Culture, Media
and Sport committee today. He never heard back and assumed there
wasn’t enough evidence to run a story, Entwistle said.  Entwistle was managing the broadcaster’s television
channels when the “Newsnight” probe was dropped and he became
director general this year. The previous director general,  Mark Thompson , is scheduled to start as  New York Times Co. (NYT) ’s chief
executive officer next month.  No Involvement  Thompson also denied any knowledge of the Savile scandal in
a letter to lawmaker Rob Wilson today. Thompson said that he was
never formally briefed about the planned “Newsnight” program
and only heard about the story from a journalist at a reception.
Thompson, whose career at the BBC spanned three decades, said he
didn’t know about the planned tributes to Savile and had never
met the entertainer or worked in his departments.  London police said last week they’re dealing with alleged
abuse on an unprecedented scale. Savile, who was knighted for
charity work in 1990, fronted programs including “Jim’ll Fix
It,” which granted children wishes such as meeting celebrities.
The entertainer, a friend of Prince Charles who stayed at
 Margaret Thatcher ’s country home when she was prime minister,
died in October last year at the age of 84.  “Jim’ll Fix It”  Entwistle said he asked “Newsnight” editor  Peter Rippon 
to step aside after the broadcaster yesterday corrected the
journalist’s previous explanation on a blog for why he dropped
the investigation into Savile. Entwistle said it was a
“catastrophic mistake” to cancel the “Newsnight” segment and
he regrets airing the tributes.  Asked whether Entwistle should resign, Prime Minister  David Cameron  said yesterday “I don’t think it’s a question of that
at this stage.” He added that the BBC needs to ask itself
“some very searching questions.”  While Rippon’s blog said the “Newsnight” report had no
evidence against the BBC, there were some allegations of abusive
conduct on the broadcaster’s premises, the company said. Staff
at the Duncroft school for girls, where Savile volunteered, may
have also known about abuse, contrary to Rippon’s earlier
statement, the BBC said.  Rippon also said the investigation didn’t uncover new
evidence that would’ve helped police. The BBC yesterday said
that  law enforcement  may not have been aware of all of the
allegations. Entwistle said today that the BBC will decide on
any potential disciplinary action against Rippon after a review.  Abusive Conduct  The BBC last week appointed former Court of Appeal Judge
Janet Smith and journalist Nick Pollard to head two internal
investigations, one into the abuse allegations and another into
why “Newsnight” canceled its investigation of Savile.  Alongside the BBC probes, the state-run  National Health
Service  has set up investigations into allegations of abuse by
Savile at two hospitals and a high-security unit for psychiatric
patients.  The BBC is now also investigating whether the entertainer
had accomplices after the company’s “Panorama” program claimed
that a group of men targeted underage girls in television
audiences of Savile’s “Top of the Pops” program.  “A pedophile ring would be a matter for police
investigation,” Entwistle said. “That’s an allegation I’ve
seen in last few days. We’re putting our resources at the
disposal of the police.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  