-- Bears Beat Lions 13-7 to Extend NFL Winning Streak to Four Games
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-10-23T04:25:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/bears-beat-lions-13-7-to-extend-nfl-winning-streak-to-four-games.html
The  Chicago Bears  extended their
winning streak to four games with a 13-7 victory over the
 Detroit Lions  in which the National Football League’s top
defense forced four turnovers and came within seconds of its
first shutout in almost two years.  Bears quarterback  Jay Cutler  threw a seven-yard touchdown
pass to  Brandon Marshall  and Robbie Gould kicked a pair of field
goals last night at Soldier Field in Chicago to close out Week 7
of the regular season.  The Bears’ defense, which has allowed a league-low 13
points a game, held the Lions scoreless until  Matthew Stafford 
threw a 12-yard touchdown pass to Ryan Broyles with 30 seconds
left in the game.  “It was good team defense again,” Bears linebacker Brian Urlacher said in a televised interview. “We ran to the football
and got some turnovers when we needed to -- the same thing we’ve
been doing all year.”  Chicago improved its record to 3-0 at home and is now 5-1
overall, taking a half-game lead over the 5-2  Minnesota Vikings 
in the National Football Conference’s North Division. Detroit
remains in last place in the division at 2-4 and has lost four
of its past five games.  After opening a 13-0 lead early in the second half, the
Bears kept the Lions off the scoreboard by forcing a fumble by
running back Joique Bell on the Chicago 1-yard line midway
through the third quarter. Detroit had driven 79 yards before
Brian Urlacher recovered the fumble caused by Henry Melton.  The Bears also intercepted a fourth-down pass by Stafford
at their 5-yard line with two minutes, 39 seconds left.  ‘Good Defense’  “Chicago is a really good defense and they made it hard on
us,” Lions coach Jim Schwartz said at his post-game news
conference. “But if we don’t have those turnovers, there were
plays to be made.”  Stafford, who completed 28-of-46 passes for 261 yards, is
the only NFL starting quarterback without a first-half touchdown
pass this season. Chicago’s Cutler, who returned after a second-
quarter rib injury, was 16-of-31 for 150 yards.  Matt Forte  rushed for 96 yards on 22 carries for the Bears,
who have won eight of their past nine games against the Lions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  