-- Bernabe Says Italy Cash Limit Will Drive Mobile-Phone Payments
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-10-23T13:42:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/bernabe-says-italy-cash-limit-will-drive-mobile-phone-payments.html
Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  Chairman Franco Bernabe said Italian government measures to limit cash payments
and fight  tax evasion  will speed the adoption of electronic
payments through mobile phones.  Mobile payments based on near field communication, or NFC,
technology will be deployed on a larger scale in  Italy  from next
year, said Bernabe, who’s also chairman of the mobile-phone
operators’ association GSMA. Telecom Italia is holding a trial
for so-called proximity payments in Milan where users can buy
tickets on public transport, pay at retail outlets and interact
with smart advertising posters.  Government measures “will be one of the main drivers to
adopt mobile-phone payments in Italy,” Bernabe said at a
briefing in Milan today at the NFC and Mobile Money conference.
“Users will also benefit from easy-to-use, handy payments.”  Prime Minister  Mario Monti  last year banned cash payments
of over 1,000 euros ($1,300) as he sought to crack down on tax
evasion. Italy loses more than 100 billion euros in unpaid taxes
every year.  Poste Italiane , Italy’s state-owned postal service,
said Oct. 17 it will introduce  NFC technology in post offices  to
allow clients to pay for bills, letters or parcels through their
smartphones “soon.”  Other than payments and ticketing, smartphones with NFC
technology can also replace store-loyalty cards and can be used
to receive coupons and to unlock and start a car, Bernabe said.  “When people leave home, they are far more likely to
forget their keys or wallet than their mobile phone,” Bernabe
said. “NFC is based on SIM cards, which are the closest we can
get to being invulnerable in terms of security.”  While new smartphones introduced on the market have built-
in NFC capabilities and use SIM cards enabled for this
technology, the upgrade of electronic payment systems by
retailers and service providers is likely to take four to five
years, Bernabe said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  