-- Billionaire Ross Interested in Buying Spanish Bank Assets
-- B y   D a l e   C r o f t s
-- 2012-10-23T10:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/billionaire-ross-interested-in-buying-spanish-banking-assets.html
Wilbur Ross , the billionaire who’s
taken stakes in distressed U.S. and European lenders, said he’s
interested in Spanish banking assets as the country takes steps
to resolve bad loans stemming from its real-estate bubble.  Ross’s WL Ross & Co., which holds about 10 percent of  Bank
of Ireland Plc. (BKIR)  and teamed up with  Richard Branson  to buy part
of  Northern Rock  Plc, is in talks “almost every week” with
representatives of the large  Spanish banks , he said in an
interview in  Abu Dhabi , without naming potential targets.  “Maybe next year will be the year for Spain,” he said.
“We’ve been doing a lot of work in Spain. We’ve put a lot of
time and effort into  Spain  but haven’t put any money in yet.”  Officials in the euro zone’s fourth-largest economy are
setting up a bad bank, similar to one in Ireland, to help
lenders shed soured real estate loans and to boost lending
growth. The government is seeking to purge about 180 billion
euros ($235 billion) of bad assets linked to property, which its
central bank says remain on lenders’ balance sheets.  “Spain has yet to go through the catharsis of real
estate,” Ross said. “I don’t know if it’ll be another six
months or another 12 months or whatever, but at some point we
might very well do something in Spain.”  The country’s economy contracted for a fifth quarter, with
gross domestic product shrinking 0.4 percent in the three months
through September from the previous quarter, the Bank of Spain
said today in an estimate in its monthly bulletin.  Northern Rock  Ross’s firm invested about 350 million pounds ($560
million) with Branson’s Virgin Money to take over the retail
operations of Northern Rock, the British bank whose reliance on
short-term financing resulted in its becoming the first casualty
of the global liquidity crunch.  Ross was also among five investors who took a 35 percent
stake in  Bank of Ireland , one of six lenders guaranteed by
taxpayers in 2008, for 1.1 billion euros. He has a board seat.  He has taken stakes in institutions such as  Oregon ’s
 Cascade Bancorp (CACB) ,  New Jersey ’s Sun Bancorp, and union-owned
Amalgamated Bank in  New York , all of which required financial
aid after writing down bad real estate loans.  Spain secured a 100 billion-euro financial-sector lifeline
earlier this year and may request a European Union bailout,
putting the region’s newest crisis-fighting tools to the test in
an economy that’s twice the combined size of  Greece , Ireland and
 Portugal .  ‘Interesting Country’  “Spain in many ways is a very, very interesting country,”
Ross said. “But we’re thinking they’re just now beginning to
recognize the magnitude of the problems. Until now they’ve been
in total denial.”  Bad loans as a proportion of total lending in Spain jumped
to a record 10.5 percent in August from a restated 10.1 percent
in July as 9.3 billion euros of loans were newly classified as
being in default, according to data published by the Bank of
Spain on its website on Oct. 18. The ratio has climbed for 17
straight months from 0.72 percent in December 2006, before
Spain’s property boom turned to bust.  The country’s request for European Union financial aid to
shore up its banks is increasing concern about its growing
liabilities.  Standard & Poor’s  downgraded the country’s debt
rating by two levels to BBB-, one step above junk, from BBB+ on
Oct. 10, saying it wasn’t clear who will bear the cost of
recapitalizing banks.  Bad Assets  “Bad assets are going to have to be removed from the
banks,” Ross said. “It’s very, very difficult to have a bank
simultaneously managing a huge amount of bad assets and trying
to grow its good assets. It’s just tough.”  The firm would probably look to invest when there is a need
for a cash injection after assets are removed into a so-called
“bad bank,” he said. Many of the Spanish regional banks which
expanded into other areas need to “shrink” back to their
original locales and focus on building core deposits, he said.  Spanish banks expanded lending by 3.5 times from 2000 to
2008 when the credit boom peaked, according to Bank of Spain
data. The lenders had more than 46,000 branches open in 2008
compared with about 39,000 in 2000 as they expanded their
networks to accompany the boom.  President  Mariano Rajoy  has struggled to trim a 2011  budget
deficit  that was more than three times the EU limit, after the
country’s deepening recession pushed the jobless rate over 25
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dale Crofts in Dubai at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  