-- BofA CEO Moynihan Declares Victory Over Capital Doubters
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-10-23T16:44:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/bofa-ceo-moynihan-declares-victory-over-capital-doubters.html
Bank of America Corp., the lender
that got a $5 billion boost from  Warren Buffett  last year, now
has the “top capital” among peers and is capable of paying a
bigger  dividend , said Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan .  The bank has fulfilled a goal Moynihan drilled into
subordinates since his first day on the job: building a
“fortress balance sheet,” he said in an Oct. 17 staff meeting
at the company’s  Charlotte , North Carolina headquarters.  “We’re going to officially declare victory on one of those
operating principles,” Moynihan said in the town-hall style
meeting. “The reason why is, we have the top capital in the
industry, the top liquidity in the industry.” People have
stopped asking if the bank needs more funds to absorb losses and
now want to know when investors will get the excess, he said.  His display of confidence is a turnaround from last year,
when investor concerns about the bank’s health spurred Buffett’s
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  to offer a $5 billion injection, just as
it had done for  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  during the financial
crisis. Bank of America went from trailing peers to having the
industry’s best  balance sheet , Moynihan said last week.  Unlike last year, the CEO avoided saying the dividend would
increase, telling staff that he won’t “get ahead” of the
 Federal Reserve ’s 2013 approval process. Moynihan, 53, was
criticized in 2011 for implying the dividend would rise, only to
have the central bank reject his request. The company passed
this year’s Fed stress test by leaving payouts unchanged.  Future Costs  Moynihan’s remarks about capital could be premature if
costs from defective mortgages and  litigation  are worse than
expected, said  Paul Miller , an FBR Capital Markets analyst who
has a hold rating on Bank of America shares. Faulty home loans
and foreclosures have cost the lender more than $40 billion
since the start of 2007, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “They still have a lot of liabilities, and it’s going to
put pressure on their capital base if these lawsuits go the
other way,” Miller said. “What he has done is shrunk the
 balance sheet  more than generated a lot of capital.”  Capital may be no better than at other large banks,
according to a Barclays Plc research note last week. To arrive
at an estimate of an 8.97 percent Tier 1 common ratio in the
third quarter, Bank of America assumed regulators would approve
how the firm measures its risk-weighted assets, wrote Brian Monteleone, a Barclays  credit analyst .  Capital Ratio  That assumption added 0.4 to 1 percentage point to the
capital ratio, and removing it would “pull Bank of America back
into the pack of peers’ disclosed ratios,’’ Monteleone wrote.
Goldman Sachs and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  have ratios of about 8.5
percent without the assumption Bank of America makes, he wrote.
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s exceeded 9 percent, Chief Financial Officer
Ruth Porat said Oct. 18, a day after Moynihan’s staff meeting.  Bank of America’s capital has improved quickly, making the
chances for a dividend increase or stock repurchases in 2013
“much better,” Ed Najarian, an analyst at International
Strategy & Investment Group Inc., wrote last week in a note.
 Larry DiRita , a spokesman for the lender, declined to comment.  Bank of America climbed 72 percent this year to $9.55 a
share through yesterday, the  best performance  in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average .  The meeting gave Moynihan an opportunity to demonstrate how
his firm is recovering after buying Merrill Lynch & Co. and
Countrywide Financial Corp. during the financial crisis. The  1-
cent (BAC)  quarterly dividend, smaller than JPMorgan and  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC) ’s, is a vestige of the duress Bank of America faced when it
took $45 billion in U.S. bailouts, which was repaid in 2009.  Dividend Increases  Boosting the payout “will be on the table” after the next
Fed stress tests in March, Moynihan said. Regulators judge
banks’ progress under tougher international capital guidelines
before allowing them to take actions including  dividend
increases . The world’s biggest lenders must reach Tier 1 capital
levels of at least 9 percent by 2019 under Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision rules.  “All of the capital we have above the level we need, which
is 9 percent, will go back to the shareholders at some point,”
Moynihan said. “We are done with where we are supposed to be in
six years today. If we did not earn a dollar, we would not have
to raise another dollar of capital.”  Big Question  Bank of America’s struggles have fed critics who call the
biggest banks too large to manage and say they put taxpayers at
risk. Moynihan called his company the “poster child” of a
financial firm that’s become smaller and less risky.  “The fear of bigness is a misplaced fear,” he said. “If
you look back at history, it’s actually the small institutions
that failed and caused the problem; the big ones were there to
take them.”  In the staff meeting, which was broadcast to Bank of
America offices  worldwide , Moynihan and CFO Bruce R. Thompson
portrayed the firm as having stabilized revenue from consumer
and corporate units while cutting costs and sloughing off
liabilities from previous acquisitions.  Bank of America trimmed 2,866 workers in the third quarter
amid Moynihan’s cost-cutting plan, which seeks at least 30,000
job reductions and $8 billion a year in savings. That left the
company, the biggest employer among U.S. banks, with 272,594
 workers  by Sept. 30.  Human Side  “We are dropping about 3,000 a quarter, and we should stay
on that path, as best we can tell,” Moynihan said. “We’re
trying to mitigate the human side of this by looking for every
place we can have our teammates join us and do something else.”  The bank has an annual attrition rate of 10 percent, which
means that managers are aided in their headcount-reduction goals
by simply not hiring in some areas, the CEO said.  The firm posted third-quarter  net income  of $340 million,
breaking  even  on a per-share basis, after a legal settlement
tied to the Merrill Lynch takeover and accounting charges almost
wiped out profit. That beat the average estimate of a 7-cent
loss by 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “I don’t think we’ve ever had a quarter where we had zero
earnings per share and felt as good about the progress we made,’
Thompson told staff.  Employees asked Moynihan when legal expenses from the
takeovers of Merrill Lynch and Countrywide will subside.
Disputes with  Fannie Mae  and  MBIA Inc. (MBI)  over who should bear the
costs of defective mortgages may be settled if the firms are
reasonable in their demands, the CEO said.  Refund Claims  Unresolved demands that Bank of America repurchase
mortgages rose 12 percent to $25.5 billion as of Sept. 30,
fueled by disputes with Fannie Mae and private investors, the
firm said last week. FBR’s Miller has said the company hasn’t
set aside enough reserves to cover such claims.  ‘‘When you go to other-than-mortgage litigation, there will
always be something,” Moynihan said, rattling off a list of
potential cases, including a U.S. probe into the marketing of
identity-theft protection products to credit-card customers.
“We’ll pay that, but that’s a lot different than what we’re
spending today. Those will kind of come down.”  Moynihan, who has sold more than $50 billion in assets and
businesses since taking over in 2010, discussed the benefits of
managing a smaller firm. He has sold or shut down mortgage,
credit-card and wealth-management units acquired by his
predecessor,  Kenneth D. Lewis .  “Another area that avoids litigation risk is to keep the
franchise as narrow as you can,” Moynihan said. “If you’re
going to step on a rake and have it hit you in the nose, it’d
better be for a core customer activity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in  New York  at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  