-- Boston Properties Joins Hines for San Francisco Tower
-- B y   D a n   L e v y   a n d   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-23T23:07:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/boston-properties-joins-hines-for-san-francisco-tower.html
Boston Properties Inc. (BXP)  and Hines
formed a joint venture to develop San Francisco’s tallest office
building, a 61-story tower to be built adjacent to a new transit
center in the South of Market area.  The companies will each have a 50 percent interest and
agreed to acquire the project land for about $190 million from
the Transbay Joint Powers Authority, the agency overseeing the
transit center, Hines and  Boston  Properties said today in a
statement. The transaction is expected to be completed in the
first quarter of 2013.  “We are very gratified to have both a stellar partner and
the city’s nod of approval,” Gerald D. Hines, chairman of
Houston-based Hines, said in the statement. “We think the tower
will be a beautiful addition to  San Francisco ’s beloved skyline
as well as an extremely desirable and sustainable workplace next
to one of the state’s busiest transit hubs.”  Boston Properties’ involvement follows the withdrawal of
 MetLife Inc. (MET)  as a financial partner with Hines. The New York-
based insurer had been named as part of the project team during
a 2007 competition to design and construct the high-rise. The
venture allows Boston Properties to further increase its
holdings in San Francisco, which President Doug Linde said in
August was its strongest market, along with Silicon Valley to
the south.  ‘Critically Important’  “Our multiyear view is that if you’re looking for the
formation of wealth and knowledge-based companies, the greater
San Francisco area is the dominant cluster,” Linde said on the
Boston-based company’s Aug. 7 earnings conference call. “We
continue to see that as being a critically important part of the
growth of the country’s prosperity, and therefore we think it’s
a great place to own real estate.”  Later that month, the landlord said it acquired a 522,000-
square-foot (48,500-square-meter) office project under
construction in the South of Market neighborhood.  Boston Properties and Hines both focus on owning top-
quality office buildings in the most desired sections of U.S.
cities including  New York , Boston and  Washington .  Final approval for the 1.4 million-square-foot San
Francisco tower, designed by Pelli Clarke Pelli Architects, was
granted by the San Francisco Planning Commission on Oct. 18. The
1,070-foot (326-meter) high-rise will be located next to the
transit center at First and Mission streets. A 5.4-acre (2-
hectare) rooftop park is planned for the center, which will
connect 11 transit systems, according to today’s statement.  ‘Extraordinary Project’  “The combination of our two organizations will provide
superior management at all levels of this extraordinary project,
which we are committed to make a landmark for generations to
come,” Mortimer Zuckerman, chairman and chief executive officer
of Boston Properties, said in the statement.  The company today reported third-quarter funds from
operations fell 7.4 percent from a year earlier to $176.1
million, or $1.16 a share, as expenses increased. Boston
Properties projected FFO for 2013 of $5 to $5.15 a share, below
the $5.27 average  estimate  of 18 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.
FFO is measure of  cash flow  used by real estate companies.  Kilroy Realty Corp. (KRC) , a Los Angeles-based real estate
investment trust, plans to develop a 27-story  office tower  at
350 Mission St., across from the Transbay Transit Center. Kilroy
acquired the 0.4-acre site for about $52 million and expects to
invest $200 million to construct the 400,000-square-foot
building, the company said today in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Levy in San Francisco at 
 dlevy13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  