-- BP May Buy Back $6 Billion of Shares After TNK-BP Deal, UBS Says
-- B y   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-10-23T08:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/bp-may-buy-back-6-billion-of-shares-after-tnk-bp-deal-ubs-says.html
BP Plc (BP/)  may use about $6 billion of
the cash it obtains for its stake in  Russia ’s TNK-BP to buy back
stock, repaying shareholders for lower earnings they’ll get from
an investment in  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG said.  BP said yesterday it will try to compensate stockowners for
reduced profit after  Europe ’s second-biggest crude-oil producer
agreed to exchange its 50 percent in TNK-BP for an increase in
its Rosneft holding to almost 20 percent and $12.3 billion in
cash. The deal suggests a dilution of BP’s earnings-per-share of
as much as 5 percent, according to Macquarie Capital Europe.  “It’s too premature to say what we’re going to do with the
cash,” BP’s Chief Financial Officer Brian Gilvary said in a
telephone interview yesterday. “But we are making sure we
minimize the dilution to earnings-per-share as well as continue
with our progressive dividend policy. We’re not looking to go
out and make an acquisition with it.”  Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley has spent the past two
years trying to strengthen BP’s balance sheet through asset
sales following the Gulf of Mexico oil spill that erased a third
of the company’s market value. A trial over liability for the
accident is set to begin on Jan. 14, with BP facing pollution
fines of as much as $17.6 billion under the  Clean Water Act .  Countering lower earnings-per-share “would mean you’d
either have to boost earnings by 3 percent to 5 percent, or more
likely buy back $5 billion to $7 billion of shares,” said  Jason Gammel , a Macquarie analyst. “But I wouldn’t expect any detail
on that until after a settlement with the U.S. government.”  Diluted Earnings  Yesterday’s deal will probably cause earnings per share to
slip 3 percent to 4 percent and free  cash flow  by 10 percent,
Deutsche Bank analyst Lucas Herrmann said in an e-mailed note.
BP can compensate for that with a $6 billion buyback, he said.  Ivor Pether, who oversees about 360 million pounds ($576
million) of BP shares at Royal London Asset Management, said it
may buy back about $7.5 billion. Jon Rigby, an analyst at UBS,
said the dilution implies a buyback of about $6 billion.  BP expects to book earnings, reserves and output from its
stake in Rosneft, which plans to buy all of TNK-BP. BP will
initially lose about 100,000 barrels of oil a day in production
and gain about 700 million barrels of oil reserves as a result.  The company will take 19.75 percent of Rosneft and get two
board seats. The sale of the TNK-BP stake is BP’s biggest deal
since its $56 billion purchase of Amoco Corp. 13 years ago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  