-- BP Urges Judge to Approve $7.8 Billion Oil-Spill Accord
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-10-23T23:22:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/bp-urges-judge-to-approve-7-8-billion-oil-spill-accord.html
BP Plc (BP/)  urged a federal judge to
approve a proposed $7.8 billion settlement of thousands of
claims by coastal businesses and property owners who sued over
economic damages from the 2010  Gulf of Mexico   oil spill .  “The settlement will bring full compensation to all class
members, including those on the  Gulf Coast , while resolving a
major component of the Deepwater Horizon litigation,” BP
lawyers said yesterday in a court filing in New Orleans. “The
alternative is all-out litigation that would last many years and
have an uncertain outcome for class members.”  Lawyers representing more than 13,000 spill victims have
attacked the settlement, BP said in the filing. Fewer than 1,000
claimants have formally opted out of the deal so far, BP said.
The objectors represent “only a small fraction of the total
class members,” the company said.  BP, based in  London , agreed in March to pay an estimated
$7.8 billion to resolve most private plaintiffs’ claims for
economic loss, property damage and injuries. The settlement,
reached days before a scheduled trial on liability for the 2010
spill, doesn’t cover federal government claims and those of the
Gulf Coast states. Plaintiffs’ lawyers who negotiated the
settlement with BP also asked the judge to approve the
agreement, saying it will prevent years of litigation.  Excluded Claims  Also excluded are claims of financial institutions,
casinos, private plaintiffs in parts of Florida and  Texas , and
residents and businesses claiming harm from the Obama
administration’s moratorium on deep-water drilling prompted by
the spill. The settlement comprises two agreements -- one over
medical claims, the other on economic and property damage.  Spill victims who don’t like the proposed accord have until
Nov. 1 to notify the court they don’t want to be part of it.
U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  will hear arguments on the
settlement at a Nov. 8 fairness hearing.  A nonjury trial over liability for the April 2010 explosion
of the Deepwater Horizon drilling rig and the subsequent oil
spill is set for Jan. 14 before Barbier in New Orleans.  Criticism of BP’s proposed settlement has centered in large
part on victims’ fears that businesses and individuals that
depend on the Gulf seafood industry won’t be adequately
compensated if regional fish populations nosedive in a few years
as a result of the spill.  Exxon Valdez  Victims objecting have cited the collapse of the Alaskan
herring fishery three years after the wreck of the Exxon Valdez
tanker as evidence they shouldn’t prematurely settle with BP.  A “scientific consensus has formed” that the Exxon Valdez
didn’t cause the herring collapse and that Gulf of Mexico
fisheries are already strongly rebounding from the 2010 spill,
BP said in yesterday’s filing.  The company urged Barbier not to hold hostage to the
complaints of a few objectors a settlement that would benefit
many. The judge is overseeing pretrial proceedings for more than
500 spill-damage lawsuits consolidated in his  New Orleans  court.  “This small group of objectors has a simple solution to
their complaints,” BP’s lawyers said. “Opt out.”  Many of the objections to the settlement have been brought
by people or businesses that were excluded from the agreement
reached in March, Stephen Herman and James Roy, lawyers for the
plaintiffs, said in a separate filing yesterday.  ‘Unfair,’ ‘Inadequate’  Of plaintiffs who are covered by the agreement, “most of
the attorneys or class members who object to particular aspects
of the settlement do not attempt to explain why the settlement
is ‘unfair’ or ‘inadequate’ to them,” the lawyers said.  Even if claims were brought to trial and BP was found to be
grossly negligent, pursuing individual lawsuits instead of
resolving them through a mass settlement would take years,
Herman and Roy said.  “No one can deny that these could take decades to resolve
conclusively through litigation,” they wrote.  Attorneys for multiple plaintiffs criticized the agreement,
according to court filings.  “The class settlement is massive and extraordinarily
complicated, yet still devoid of some important specifics,”
said plaintiffs’ lawyer  Brent Coon , who represents more than
13,000 plaintiffs. “The settlement itself comprises nearly
1,200 pages that are so convoluted and confusing that it is
difficult even for lawyers to understand and interpret.”  The $7.8 billion agreement “is only a partial settlement
which means that even a determination whether one is actually
included or excluded from the settlement requires careful
analysis and potentially random guess work regarding how one’s
industry will be treated,” Coon said in an August filing.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan ,
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 