-- Brazil Real Falls From Two-Week High as Central Bank Intervenes
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-10-23T21:01:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/brazil-real-falls-from-two-week-high-as-central-bank-intervenes.html
Brazil ’s real dropped from a two-
week high after the central bank auctioned reverse currency
swaps to support exporters by preventing appreciation.  The currency fell 0.2 percent to 2.0272 per U.S. dollar
after rallying yesterday to 2.0242, the strongest closing level
since Oct. 4. The real extended its drop to 7.9 percent this
year, the biggest decline among the 16 most-traded currencies
tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank said today it auctioned 33,000 reverse
currency swaps contracts out of 60,000 offered, including those
due on Dec. 3 for $849 million and contracts due on Jan. 2 for
$799 million.  “The real came very close to 2.02 yesterday, so we were
expecting intervention,” Hideaki Iha, a currency trader at Fair
Corretora de Cambio e Valores, said in a phone interview from
Sao Paulo. “If we didn’t have these interventions, the real
would easily be stronger than 2 per dollar. We’re working with a
currency band now, a dirty float.”  The decline in the Brazilian real to a “more favorable”
level this year has allowed manufacturers to boost exports even
as global trade remains weak, Finance Minister Guido Mantega
told reporters Oct. 13 in  Tokyo , where he was attending the
International Monetary Fund’s annual meeting.  The central bank sold $1.3 billion in reverse currency
swaps on Oct. 5, $5.7 billion of contracts Sept. 12 through
Sept. 17 and $350 million on Aug. 21 to weaken the real. The
August reverse swaps were the first since March.  ‘Neutral’ Reaction  The reaction was “neutral” compared with larger moves
triggered by past interventions because today’s sale of reverse
currency swaps is a rollover of contracts expiring Nov. 1,
Alfredo Barbutti, an economist at Liquidez DTVM, said in a phone
interview from Sao Paulo.  Spain’s drop in gross domestic product for a fifth quarter
contributed to the drop in emerging-market assets including the
real.  “The euro and Australian dollar are falling with the
global economy getting worse and the effect of the Fed’s actions
exhausting themselves,” Barbutti said.  The Federal Reserve announced last month a third round of
asset purchases known as quantitative easing, or QE3, saying it
intends to buy $40 billion of mortgage debt a month until the
labor market shows sustained improvement. It also expects to
keep the target lending rate at virtually zero at least through
the middle of 2015.  Slowing Inflation  Brazil’s swap rates fell as evidence of slowing inflation
spurred speculation that the central bank will keep borrowing
costs at a record low for an extended period.  The IPC-S inflation index, which monitors consumer prices
in Brazil’s seven biggest cities, increased 0.57 percent in the
30 days ended Oct. 22 after rising 0.62 percent in the prior
period. The median forecast of 18 economists in a Bloomberg
survey was for a 0.58 percent advance.  Policy makers cut the  target lending rate  for a 10th
straight meeting to a record low 7.25 percent on Oct. 10 to
revive the slowest growth among major  emerging markets .  Swap rates on contracts due in January 2014 fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 7.39 percent today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Sao Paulo at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  