-- Final Presidential Debate Drew 59.2 Million TV Viewers
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-23T22:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/broadcasters-drew-30-5-million-to-last-obama-romney-debate-1-.html
Last night’s final presidential
debate between Barack Obama and Mitt Romney averaged 59.2
million television viewers, including a record 11.5 million on
cable’s Fox News.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC drew 12.4 million viewers, the most of
any broadcast or cable outlet, according to Nielsen data
released by the networks. The debate, held in Boca Raton,
Florida, and moderated by CBS News’s Bob Schieffer, was the
highest-rated telecast ever for Fox News, the 16-year-old cable
channel owned by New York-based  News Corp. (NWSA)   The final debate faced competition from football and a
baseball playoff game, showing a drop-off from the 65.6 million
who tuned in to last week’s second debate. President Obama, a
Democrat, kept Republican Romney on the defensive on foreign
policy, the topic of last night’s session. His rival worked to
criticize the incumbent’s leadership while endorsing most major
actions he has taken.  The 90-minute debate, carried live on 10 TV networks and
delayed on Comcast’s Telemundo, exceeded the viewership of the
final presidential debate four years ago between Obama and U.S.
Senator  John McCain , which averaged 56.5 million viewers,
Nielsen said today on its  website .  Football, Baseball  News Corp.’s Fox broadcast network carried the Major League
Baseball playoff in which the San Francisco Giants defeated the
St. Louis Cardinals to advance to the World Series. That game
drew 8.1 million viewers, Nielsen said.  On cable,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN aired “Monday Night
Football,” in which 10.7 million saw the Chicago Bears top the
Detroit Lions 13-7.  The candidates’ first two meetings this year ranked among
the 10 most-watched presidential debates since 1976, according
to Nielsen. The first debate on Oct. 3 drew 67.2 million
viewers.  Coverage on Disney’s ABC last night averaged 11.7 million
viewers, and  CBS (CBS)  drew an audience of 8.44 million, according to
Nielsen data.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s CNN drew 5.81 million viewers and
Comcast’s MSNBC attracted 4.06 million, according to the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  