-- Broadcom Quarterly Sales Beat Estimates on Smartphones
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-10-23T22:17:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/broadcom-quarterly-sales-beat-estimates-on-smartphones.html
Broadcom Corp. (BRCM) , a maker of chips
that help mobile devices connect to the Internet, reported
third-quarter sales that beat analysts’ estimates, amid
increased orders from smartphone manufacturers.  Net income was $220 million, or 38 cents a share, from $270
million, or 48 cents, a year earlier, the  Irvine , California-
based company said today in a statement. Sales rose 8.7 percent
to $2.13 billion. Analysts on average  estimated  a profit of 42
cents a share on sales of $2.09 billion, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Broadcom gets the majority of its wireless-division revenue
 from   Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics Co., which combined
control more than half of the smartphone market and have models
such as the iPhone 5 and Galaxy that are dominating the market.
Broadcom’s chips provide Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connections in the
iPhone, iPad and Samsung’s Galaxy SIII handset.  Broadcom predicted fourth-quarter sales of $1.95 billion to
$2.1 billion, compared with an average analyst estimate of $2.11
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Mobile and wireless is doing extremely well,”  Daniel Amir , an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets, said by telephone.
“Even though the other businesses were a little bit
challenging, I’m encouraged.” Amir has a buy rating on the
stock.  Gross Margin  Excluding certain items, Broadcom had a third-quarter
profit of 79 cents, compared with an average analyst estimate of
77 cents.  The shares rose less than 1 percent to $33.55 in extended
trading after  slipping  0.2 percent to $33.36 at the close in  New
York . The stock has risen 14 percent this year.  The company’s infrastructure and wireless business will be
down from the third quarter as phone-service providers continue
to hold off on upgrading their networks, Chief Executive Officer
 Scott McGregor  said on a conference call with analysts. Mobile
and wireless, which  posted  a 14 percent increase in the third
quarter from the preceding three months, will be down slightly
in the fourth quarter as phone makers complete their build of
products for the year-end holiday shopping season.  Fourth Quarter  Gross margin on products, or the percentage of sales
remaining after deducting the cost of production, was 48.8
percent in the quarter. For the fourth quarter, that profit
indicator will be “flat to up slightly,” the company said in
its statement.  On Oct. 5 Samsung, the world’s biggest maker of mobile
phones, said operating profit at its telecommunications unit
almost doubled after it shipping an estimated 57.1 million
smartphones. The Galaxy SIII sold more than 20 million units in
the first hundred days after its May debut.  Apple, which reports earnings on Oct. 25, began selling its
updated iPhone 5 earlier in September. It sold a record of 5
million phones in the first three days, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  