-- Cameron Says Economy ‘Healing’ Amid Miliband Criticism
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-10-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/cameron-says-economy-healing-amid-miliband-criticism.html
Prime Minister  David Cameron  said
the U.K. economy is “healing,” defending his strategy for
government amid opposition accusations that policy changes and a
delayed Cabinet resignation amount to a “shambles.”  “You can see the economy is healing,” Cameron told ITV’s
“The Agenda” program yesterday. “We’re trying to bring down
energy bills. We’re on the side of people who want to work hard,
get on and who are struggling to pay the bills. They just want
to know it’s going to be OK in the end, and it is.”  Cameron is seeking to regain the initiative after last week
saw the resignation of Chief Whip  Andrew Mitchell  for swearing
at police, Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne ’s attempt
to travel in a first-class train carriage on a standard-class
ticket, and the premier’s own surprise announcement of a policy
on energy prices, which he then had to move away from the next
day after ministers couldn’t explain it.  The leader of the opposition Labour Party Ed Miliband
yesterday repeated his accusation that Cameron’s government is a
“shambles” during a parliamentary debate about the European
Union summit last week.  “At home last week, he was starring in his own version of
‘The Thick of It’,” Miliband told lawmakers, in a reference to
a BBC comedy about hapless ministers. “In  Europe  he was
offering another chapter in his handbook of ‘How to Lose Friends
and Influence’.”  Mitchell Apology  Mitchell, who apologized for swearing at police officers
guarding Cameron’s Downing Street residence in an incident more
than a month ago, lost the support of lawmakers in his own
 Conservative Party  which meant his job as party disciplinarian
was undermined.  “The truth is as chief whip you have to command the
parliamentary party and it was clear he wasn’t going to be able
to do his job so he had to go,” Cameron said yesterday.
“Sometimes these things are frustrating. What has been
happening this week has been slightly more encouraging on that
front. That’s politics. You have to deal with short term
problems and try to focus on the big, long-term stuff.”  On Oct. 19 Britain posted its smallest September  budget
deficit  since 2008, providing a boost for Cameron and Osborne,
struggling to meet borrowing targets.  Britain’s public finances have been hit by a  double-dip
recession  that has depressed  tax revenue  and pushed up spending
on welfare. The figures from Oct. 19 showed borrowing between
April and August was revised down by 6.7 billion pounds, meaning
Osborne may overshoot his full-year forecast by less than
previously thought.  Asked to predict the health of the economy, Cameron
replied, “You’re not going to get a ‘green shoot’ out of me,”
referring to former Conservative Chancellor of the Exchequer
Norman Lamont who was criticized for using the phrase during the
recession of the early 1990s.  “What you will get is, it’s healing,” Cameron said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  