-- Canada August Retail Sales Index Report (Text)
-- B y   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e
-- 2012-10-23T12:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/canada-august-retail-sales-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s retail sales report for August as released by
 Statistics Canada .  Retail sales rose 0.3% to $39.1 billion in August. After
removing the effects of price changes, particularly higher food
and gasoline prices, retail sales in volume terms declined 0.3%.  In current dollars, gains were reported in 5 of 11 subsectors,
representing 53% of total retail trade.  The largest increase in dollar terms among all subsectors was a
2.9% rise at gasoline stations, reflecting higher prices at the
pump. Sales in this subsector had been relatively flat since the
end of 2011.  General merchandise store sales increased for a second
consecutive month, rising 0.6% in August. The “other general
merchandise stores” industry led the gain, increasing 1.0%.
Department store sales edged up 0.2%. Food and non-alcoholic
beverages account for approximately 25% of sales at general
merchandise stores.  Food and beverage store receipts rose 0.3%, the third increase
in four months. Higher sales at supermarkets and other grocery
stores (+0.5%) accounted for most of the increase. Food prices
according to the  Consumer Price Index  increased 0.3% in August
on a seasonally adjusted monthly basis. Sales in beer, wine and
liquor stores declined for a third straight month, decreasing
0.4%.  Sporting goods, hobby, book and music store sales advanced 1.0%
in August, more than offsetting declines in June and July.  Sales at miscellaneous retailers declined for a second month in
a row, falling 3.1%. Declines in July and August more than
offset gains in early 2012. Stores in this subsector include
used merchandise stores, office supplies and stationery stores,
and pet supplies stores.  Clothing and clothing accessories store sales decreased for a
third month in a row, falling 1.1%. Lower sales were reported by
all store types within this subsector.  Receipts at  motor vehicle  and parts dealers edged down 0.2%.
Retail sales in the “other motor vehicle dealers” industry (-
4.0%) and used car dealers (-2.0%) decreased for a fourth time
in five months. These declines were partially offset by a third
straight monthly sales gain at automotive parts, accessories and
tire stores (+1.6%) and new car dealers (+0.1%).  Sales up in six provinces  Retail sales rose in six provinces in August. Ontario (+0.6%)
reported the largest gain in dollar terms after posting flat
sales in July.  Nova Scotia  (+2.8%) reported a second consecutive monthly
increase, with widespread sales gains across store types.  Sales in Saskatchewan rose 0.6%, a seventh month of
uninterrupted growth.  Newfoundland and Labrador posted the sixth increase in seven
months, with sales gaining 1.0% in August.  British Columbia registered a 0.9% sales decrease, the fifth
decline in six months.  Note to readers All the data in this release are seasonally
adjusted and in current dollars, unless otherwise noted. For
more information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment
and identifying economic trends.  Total retail sales expressed in volume are calculated by
deflating current dollar values using consumer price indexes.
The retail sales series in chained (2007) dollars is a chained
Fisher volume index with 2007 as the reference year.  Data for total retail sales in volume, including the chain
Fisher volume index, have been revised from January 2004 onward
to reflect methodological enhancements. In addition, the
reference year has changed from 2002 to 2007 for these volume
data. For more information, see Calculation of Volume of Retail
Trade Sales.  The former CANSIM table 080-0021 has been replaced by CANSIM
table 080-0024. Revised data dating back to January 2004 are now
available in this new CANSIM table.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristy Scheuble in Ottawa at 
 kmckeaney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  