-- Canada ‘Resource Nationalism’ Behind Petronas Rebuff, Fitch Says
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-10-23T06:16:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/canada-resource-nationalism-behind-petronas-rebuff-fitch-says.html
Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s C$5.2
billion ($5.23 billion) bid to take over  Progress Energy
Resources Corp. (PRQ)  was blocked by Canada’s “resource
nationalism,”  Fitch Ratings  said.  The Malaysian state oil company’s takeover of Calgary-based
Progress Energy was rejected by the Canadian government Oct. 19
as the deal won’t bring “net benefit” to the country. The
rebuff was seen by investors as a test case for the $15.1
billion bid by China’s Cnooc Ltd. for oil and gas producer  Nexen
Inc. (NXY)   “Possible reasons for the rejection include the
government’s desire to ensure that sufficient control and
profits remain in Canada,” Fitch said in an e-mailed statement
today. “This decision increases the likelihood that the
Canadian government will also reject Cnooc’s bid to acquire 100
percent of Nexen.”  Petronas  has 30 days to appeal or provide additional
concessions, at which point the government will make a final
decision, Canada’s Industry Minister Christian Paradis has said.  A  Progress Energy  takeover would have provided Petronas, as
the Malaysian company is known, an opportunity to enlarge its
reserves, diversify its product range and potentially start
exporting liquefied natural gas from North America to Asia,
Fitch said today. Petronas could provide Progress Energy with
the investment needed for expansion, Fitch said.  Petronas’s long-term foreign currency issuer default rating
was affirmed at A by Fitch in September, while the rating
outlook was changed to negative. The shift reflects growing
influence by the Malaysian government over Petronas’s financials
and strategy, weakening the case for the state-owned firm to be
rated above the sovereign, Fitch said. The ratings assessor
gives Malaysia an A- grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  