-- Canadian Dollar Erases Loss as Carney Retains Tightening Bias
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i   a n d   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-10-23T14:36:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/canadian-dollar-erases-loss-as-carney-retains-tightening-bias.html
The Canadian dollar erased a loss
versus its U.S. counterpart after the  Bank of Canada 
unexpectedly strengthened its bias for raising  interest rates ,
keeping its outlier status among the Group of Seven nations.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, rose versus a majority of its most-
traded peers after policy makers led by Governor  Mark Carney 
kept their benchmark rate at 1 percent where it’s been more than
two years and said “some modest withdrawal of monetary policy
stimulus will likely be required.” Carney suggested in an Oct.
15 speech that today’s economic forecast would reflect a slow
global recovery.  “The market was positioned for a more dovish Bank of
 Canada  statement then was delivered,” Andrew Kelvin, senior
fixed income strategist at TD Securities Inc. in Toronto said in
a phone interview. “The forward-looking language was the key.
People were looking for the outright removal of it or at least
something substantially more cautious.”  Canada’s currency was little changed at 99.25 cents per
 U.S. dollar  at 10:35 a.m. in Toronto. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0076. It had dropped as much as 0.5 percent before the
announcement, touching the lowest level since August.  Yields on benchmark two-year  government bonds  rose five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 1.14 percent. The
price of the 1 percent security due in November 2014 fell 10
cents to C$99.72 ($100.54).  ‘Global Headwinds’  The decision to keep the rate unchanged was expected by all
26 economists in a  Bloomberg News   survey , while some had also
said the Ottawa-based bank would weaken or drop its past wording
that higher rates “may become appropriate.”  “While global headwinds continue to restrain economic
activity, domestic factors are supporting a moderate
expansion,” policy makers said in a statement today. The
statement also made a new reference to “imbalances in the
household sector” as influencing the timing of rate increases
and said that household debts, already at record highs, will
rise further.  “The fact that they’re mentioning household debt just
reinforces that the next rate decision is likely to be higher,”
Kelvin said. “On the margin that argues for earlier hikes
rather than later hikes.”  Canadian household debt compared with disposable income
jumped to a record high in the second quarter, as borrowing grew
faster than income and historical revisions boosted past debt
accumulation. The ratio grew to 165.8 percent in the second
quarter, while the first-quarter figure was revised to 164.2
percent from a previous 154.3 percent, Statistics Canada said
this month.  G-7 Outlier  Today’s decision follows Carney’s Oct.15 speech where he
left out a reference to tightening monetary policy and said
Canada’s exports and investment are being curbed by global
weakness. It also contrasts with easier monetary policies
introduced in recent months by the U.S. Federal Reserve and
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi .  “Everyone tried to extract something from Mark Carney’s
talk in  Vancouver  last week,” said Denis Senecal, head of
fixed-income at State Street Canada, which manages about C$30
billion in assets. “Getting rid of the tightening bias would
have been tantamount to saying we’re going into a slowdown and
recession in Canada.”  Global monetary policy and “safe haven flows” are
influencing the Canadian dollar, the bank said in its statement.
Exports are still being restrained by the currency’s
“persistent strength,” leaving consumption and business
investment to drive the recovery.  Retail Sales  The next scheduled date for announcing the overnight rate
target is Dec.4, 2012.  The country’s retail sales rose for a second month in
August, led by higher sales at gasoline stations as prices for
fuel rose. Sales climbed 0.3 percent to C$39.1 billion ($39.2
billion),  Statistics Canada  said today in Ottawa, matching the
median forecast of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The loonie has added 1.4 percent this year against nine
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted currency Indexes. The greenback has dropped 1.8
percent, the second biggest decliner after the yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in Toronto at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net ;
Joseph Ciolli in  New York  at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  