-- Canadian Dollar May Reach One-Month High: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-10-23T17:48:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/canadian-dollar-may-reach-one-month-high-technical-analysis.html
The Canadian dollar may appreciate
to the highest level in more than a month against its U.S.
counterpart after passing through key levels of resistance,
according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , citing technical indicators.  Canada’s currency firmed beyond a resistance zone from
99.50 cents to C$1 per  U.S. dollar  and now faces the crucial
level of 98.80,  Niall O’Connor , a New York-based technical
analyst at JPMorgan, wrote today in a note to clients. A break
through 98.80 could push the Canadian dollar to 97.33, its
strongest level since Sept. 21, he said. JPMorgan forecasts that
the Canadian dollar will appreciate to 98 cents by the end of
the year, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “If we start seeing follow-through weakness for dollar-CAD
below 98.80, that’s important because it would suggest further
downside,” O’Connor said in a telephone interview. “It would
validate that breakout pattern.”  The currency, dubbed the loonie for the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, was little changed at 99.28 cents per
U.S. dollar at 1:41 p.m. in  New York . The loonie earlier
weakened as much as 0.5 percent. One Canadian dollar buys
$1.0073.  The loonie erased an earlier loss versus its U.S.
counterpart after the  Bank of Canada  unexpectedly strengthened
its bias for raising  interest rates , keeping its outlier status
among the Group of Seven nations.  Stronger Bias  “Following the announcement this morning and the fact that
the Canadian dollar is overperforming right now after being a
terrible performer over the last few weeks, it’s probably due
for some retracement,” O’Connor said.  The Canadian dollar had fallen 3 percent through
yesterday’s close after reaching a 14-month high of 96.33 on
Sept. 14.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast changes in a
security, commodity, currency or index. Resistance refers to an
area on a chart where sell orders may be gathered. Support is an
area where there may be buy orders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  