-- Carney Strengthens Bias to Raise Rates as Debt Risk Grows
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-23T14:46:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/carney-strengthens-bias-to-raise-rates-as-household-debt-grows.html
The Bank of Canada strengthened its
bias for raising interest rates, retaining its outlier status
among the Group of Seven nations while signaling concern about
record household debts it says will keep growing.  Policy makers led by Governor Mark Carney kept the
 benchmark rate  at 1 percent, where it’s been more than two
years, and said “some modest withdrawal of monetary policy
stimulus will likely be required.” The decision to keep the
rate unchanged was expected by all 26 economists in a Bloomberg
News  survey , while some had also said the Ottawa-based bank
would weaken or drop its past wording that higher rates “may
become appropriate.”  The Canadian dollar erased earlier losses after the
decision, which followed Carney’s Oct. 15 speech where he left
out a reference to tightening monetary policy. The bank’s bias
to boost borrowing costs contrasts with easier monetary policies
introduced in recent months by the U.S. Federal Reserve and
European Central Bank President Mario Draghi.  “While global headwinds continue to restrain economic
activity, domestic factors are supporting a moderate
expansion,” the bank said in its statement. It added wording
that “imbalances in the household sector” will influence the
timing of rate increases and said household debts, already at
record levels, will rise further.  “They have clearly amped it up a notch” on household
debt, said Doug Porter, deputy chief economist with BMO Capital
Markets in Toronto. “I would take it more as a caution that if
the slowdown in the housing sector doesn’t stick the Bank of
 Canada  is ready to so something about it.”  Deflating Bubbles  Carney has said that that other regulators should take the
lead on deflating asset-price bubbles, saying in April that
“the last line of defense is monetary policy.” Last week,
Carney said “if we were to lean against emerging imbalances in
household debt, we would clearly declare we are doing so.”  Canada’s dollar erased a drop, trading little changed at
99.26 cents per U.S. dollar at 10:36 a.m. in Toronto. It was
down as much as 0.5 percent before the announcement. One
Canadian dollar buys $1.0075. Trading in overnight swaps showed
investors had swung to betting on a rate increase instead of a
cut by the bank’s May 2013 meeting next May.  Global monetary policy and “safe haven flows” are
influencing the Canadian dollar, the bank said in its statement.
Exports are still being restrained by the currency’s
“persistent strength,” leaving consumption and business
investment to drive the recovery.  Dollar Rises  “The bank caught the market a little bit by surprise on
this one after Carney’s speech on global economic
uncertainties,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said in a phone interview.
“Their fidelity toward their hawkish bias has been tested and
will continue to be tested over the coming months.”  The central bank raised its 2012 growth forecast to 2.2
percent from a July prediction of 2.1 percent, and repeated that
growth will be 2.3 percent next year. The 2014 economic growth
forecast was reduced to 2.4 percent from 2.5 percent.  Canada’s economy won’t reach full output until the end of
next year, the central bank said today, later than its July
prediction of for the second half of next year. It will also
take until the end of next year for inflation to accelerate to
the central bank’s 2 percent target, according to today’s
statement, compared with a September prediction it would do so
within a year.  Slower Growth  Prices for Canadian commodity exports have increased in
recent months even with a “gradual” U.S. recovery, a recession
in  Europe  and slower growth in  China , the Bank said.  Companies such as  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan Inc. are
showing the strains of the global slowdown. Potash on Oct. 17
forecast full-year profit below analysts’ estimates after delays
in supply contracts in China and  India  reduced sales of the
fertilizer. The company will halt production at two mines for
about eight weeks.  The burden of consumer debt climbed to a record 165.8
percent of disposable income in the second quarter according to
Statistics Canada, higher than recent peaks in the U.S. and U.K.
The Bank of Canada said today the country’s debt burden will
keep rising before “stabilizing” by the end of 2014.  One sign of strength is Canada’s job market, with a
September job gain of 52,100 that was more than five times
faster than economists predicted. Canadian  unemployment  in
September was 7.4 percent, compared with 7.8 in the U.S., and
has been below the U.S. rate for almost four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net  