-- Carney May Drop G-7’s Last Rate Rise Bias as World Demand Fades
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/carney-may-drop-g-7-s-last-rate-rise-bias-as-world-demand-fades.html
The  Bank of Canada  may drop its bias
for raising  interest rates  as a slowing global economy reduces
demand for the nation’s exports such as metals and fertilizer,
ending its outlier status among the Group of Seven.  Policy makers led by Governor Mark Carney may also cut
their economic forecasts and will keep the  benchmark rate  on
overnight loans between commercial banks at 1 percent in the 9
a.m. decision from Ottawa, according to all 26 economists in a
Bloomberg News  survey .  “ Canada  is facing some severe headwinds,” said  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist at National Bank Financial in
 Montreal . “They could actually remove the tightening bias
altogether, which I would argue is the right thing to do.”  The central bank said “some modest withdrawal of the
present considerable monetary policy stimulus may become
appropriate” at its last rate announcement on Sept. 5,
repeating wording it has used since April. Over the following
six weeks, Canada reported a fifth straight monthly  trade
deficit  and the bank’s preferred measure of  core inflation 
averaged an annual 1.5 percent pace in the third quarter, slower
than a July forecast of 1.9 percent.  Carney failed to repeat the language about withdrawing
stimulus in his Oct. 15 speech, when he said Canada’s exports
and investment are being curbed by confusion about the policies
U.S. and European authorities are following to sustain growth.  “The innuendo we have gotten from previous statements that
there would be a hike and it could be soon, that will be weeded
out,” said  Carl Weinberg , chief economist at High Frequency
Economics. “How could he do otherwise? There is nothing special
about what’s going on in Canada.”  Export Reliance  Canada relies on exports for about a third of its gross
domestic product, and the bank has termed the recovery in
foreign trade the slowest since World War II. Those comments
came in July, three months before the  International Monetary
Fund  said there is an “alarmingly high” risk of a steeper
global slowdown.  Among the obstacles to growth cited by Carney last week was
the impact on business and investor  confidence  of the 19 crisis
meetings of euro-zone leaders over the past two years as well as
the impending “fiscal cliff” -- the $607 billion in U.S.
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect in
January unless the Congress acts.  The U.S. Federal Reserve announced a third round of asset
purchases last month and extended the horizon for record-low
interest rates through at least the middle of 2015. European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  agreed last month to a
program of unlimited bond-purchases to fight speculation of a
currency breakup.  New Forecast  The bank’s statement will probably contain highlights of
the updated economic forecast that will be published Oct. 24.
The new forecast “will take into account the impact of the
uncertainty,” Carney said in the speech last week in Nanaimo,
British Columbia.  The economy will probably grow at a 1.9 percent annualized
pace in the fourth quarter of this year, and by 2.1 percent in
2013 according to a Bloomberg economist survey. The central
bank’s last outlook, in July, forecast figures of 2.3 percent
for both periods.  “Up to now we have been a real outperformer,” said Roland Chalupka, a Toronto-based chief investment officer who oversees
C$800 million of assets at Fiduciary Trust Company of Canada, a
subsidiary of the U.S. investment firm Franklin Templeton
Investments. “Even  Mark Carney  has acknowledged that all major
economies, even a major economy like Canada, can’t go on
unaffected by a global slowdown.”  Swaps Trading  Carney may not raise his key rate, which has been 1 percent
for more than two years, until the third quarter of 2013
according to the economist survey. Trading in overnight index
swaps show some investors are betting on rate cuts next year.  Companies such as  Potash Corp. (POT)  of Saskatchewan Inc. are
showing the strains of the global slowdown. Potash on Oct. 17
forecast full-year profit below analysts’ estimates after delays
in supply contracts in China and  India  reduced sales of the
fertilizer. The company will halt production at two mines for
about eight weeks.  Still, Canada’s economy remains close enough to full output
that Carney may opt to modify his language about rate increases
instead of cutting it, said  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at
 CIBC World Markets  in Toronto.  “If the Bank dropped that message in its entirety, it
would leave investors guessing whether the next move was even a
hike,” Shenfeld said.  Job Market  One sign of strength is Canada’s job market, with a
September job gain of 52,100 that was more than five times
faster than economists predicted. Canadian unemployment in
September was 7.4 percent, compared with 7.8 in the U.S., and
has been below the U.S. rate for almost four years.  Keeping some language about higher rates could also help
discourage new bets on cheaper loans that could add to what is
already a record consumer debt burden, said Rangasamy at
National Bank Financial.  “He’s held on to that bias to counter that, to show he’s
not going to cut rates,” Rangasamy said. “For them to cut
rates, it will take something bad to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  