-- Carney Strengthens Rate-Increase Bias on Debt Concern: Economy
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-10-23T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/carney-s-household-debt-concern-widens-canada-g-7-gap-economy.html
The Bank of Canada signaled it may
seek to curb record household debt levels by raising  interest
rates  for the first time in more than two years, sharpening the
divide with other Group of Seven nations focused on easing
policy to combat a cooling global economy.  Governor  Mark Carney  said in Ottawa today that “some
modest withdrawal of monetary policy stimulus will likely be
required,” even as it kept the  benchmark rate  at 1 percent, and
that “imbalances in the household sector” will influence the
timing of any move. Strategists such as Jimmy Jean at Desjardins
Capital Markets in Montreal predicted the central bank would
drop or weaken its tightening bias.  Canada’s banking system and housing market were unscathed
by the global financial crisis, allowing the world’s 11th
largest economy to recover ahead of other G-7 countries. The
bank said in July that the expansion is threatened by  consumer
debt  that’s climbed to 165.8 percent of disposable income,
higher than the U.S. peak before its property bubble burst.
Canadian  house prices  have risen 56 percent since June 2005.  “They kept the hawkish bias as a warning to consumers and
to curb the real-estate market,” said Denis Senecal, vice
president and head of fixed income and cash for  State Street
Global Advisors , Canada, which manages C$1.4 trillion ($1.41
trillion) of assets.  Carney also said that household debts, already at record
levels, will rise further. His concern has intensified since
April, when he said monetary policy should be the “last line of
defense” against high debt. Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told CBC Radio Oct. 20 that he isn’t planning further
measures to restrain the housing market because steps to tighten
mortgage regulations have already slowed gains in some of the
country’s major cities.  Dollar Reaction  Canada’s dollar erased a loss after the decision. The
currency was little changed at 99.24 cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m. in Toronto after falling as much as 0.5 percent before the
announcement. One Canadian dollar buys $1.0077.  Trading in overnight swaps showed investors had swung to
betting on a rate increase instead of a cut by the bank’s May
2013 meeting.  “The Bank surprised us and Bay Street by amping up the
hawkish tone in its statement,” said  Carl Weinberg , chief
economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York,
making a reference to the Toronto street that has a cluster of
banks. “The notion of raising interest rates now is just plain
bad policy,” he said, citing moderate economic growth following
a “big downturn” and slow inflation.  Canada’s bias to boost borrowing costs contrasts with
easier monetary policies introduced in recent months by the
 Federal Reserve  and the  European Central Bank . The Fed last
month announced a third round of quantitative easing, with
monthly purchases of $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities.  Bank of Spain  Elsewhere today, the Bank of Spain said the nation’s
economy contracted for a fifth quarter, adding pressure on
Premier  Mariano Rajoy  to seek more European aid. Gross domestic
product fell 0.4 percent in the three months through September
from the previous quarter, matching the contraction of the
second quarter. The euro weakened and Spain’s 10-year bond yield
rose after the data.  In the U.S., Fed policy makers began a two-day meeting in
Washington today. All 21 bond dealers that trade with the Fed
expect it to decide before year-end to buy Treasuries in
addition to purchasing mortgage bonds as gains in U.S.
employment and  consumer confidence  prove unsustainable,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  In an Oct. 15 speech, Carney left out a reference to
tightening monetary policy. At the same time, he foreshadowed
today’s statement by saying that “if we were to lean against
emerging imbalances in  household debt , we would clearly declare
we are doing so.”  Caught by Surprise  “The bank caught the market a little bit by surprise on
this one,” Mazen Issa, Canada macro strategist at Toronto-
Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit, said in a phone interview.
“Their fidelity toward their hawkish bias has been tested and
will continue to be tested over the coming months.”  The Bank of Canada said today the country’s debt burden
will keep rising before “stabilizing” by the end of 2014.  Statistics Canada  said Oct. 15 said credit-market debt was
higher than earlier estimated while incomes were lower,
increasing the ratio of debt to disposable income 10 percentage
points to levels above the U.S. peak in 2007.  “Households need to slow their borrowing on their own, or
else the Bank of Canada will give them a reason to do so,”
 Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at  CIBC World Markets  in
Toronto, wrote in a client note.  Canada is at risk of a second recession since 2009 because
record debt may force households to curb spending, according to
a Sept. 6 Moody’s Analytics report.  Consumer Spending  The Bank of Canada today forecast that  consumer spending 
and business investment will help bring the economy back to its
full capacity by the end of next year. It raised its 2012 growth
forecast to 2.2 percent from a July prediction of 2.1 percent,
and repeated that growth will be 2.3 percent next year.  Stock investors may also be betting that consumer spending
will remain healthy. Consumer discretionary companies on the
Toronto Stock Exchange such as the movie-theater chain  Cineplex
Inc. (CGX)  have  returned  12 percent this year, lagging only health-
care companies with a 20 percent return.  The  Bank of Canada  repeated that Canada’s dollar will be a
source of weakness along with “global headwinds.” Prices for
Canadian commodity exports have still increased in recent months
even with a “gradual” U.S. recovery, a recession in Europe and
slower growth in China, the Bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  