-- Diamondback Cooperator Calls Should Be Barred, U.S. Says
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-23T16:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/chiasson-jury-shouldn-t-hear-call-made-for-fbi-u-s-says.html
Jurors in the insider-trading trial
of Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson
shouldn’t hear recorded calls a cooperator made at the behest of
the FBI because they contain false information and were used as
a ruse to ensnare other suspects, prosecutors said.  The government urged exclusion of the FBI’s recordings
because they contain a mixture of “incriminating and (false)
exculpatory statements” that could confuse jurors and unfairly
turn them against the U.S. case, according to court papers.  Chiasson and former Diamondback Capital Management LLC
portfolio manager  Todd Newman  are seeking to play calls made by
former Diamondback analyst Jesse Tortora, the government
cooperator, at their trial starting later this month in
 Manhattan  federal court.  The recordings, made at the direction of the  Federal Bureau
of Investigation , include a Dec. 1, 2010, call Tortora made to
Whittier Trust Co. fund manager Danny Kuo after FBI agents
raided Diamondback and three other  hedge funds  a week earlier.
The U.S. said the purpose of the call was to elicit
incriminating statements from Kuo.  “Members of the jury may object to the notion that the FBI
is recording individuals without telling them, or that
cooperating witnesses engaged in deceptive behavior at the
direction of the FBI, even though these are entirely permissible
law enforcement techniques,” the prosecutors said in a filing
yesterday.  ‘Undercover Ruse’  The calls “were an undercover ruse set up by the FBI,”
the government said in yesterday’s filing.  Tortora, who was cooperating with the U.S. when he recorded
the call, pleaded guilty in 2011 to passing nonpublic
information to Newman and others. Kuo pleaded guilty in April,
admitting he used illegal tips to trade in  Dell Inc. (DELL)  Six of
eight people charged in the case have pleaded guilty and are
cooperating with prosecutors.  “What’s happening, man?” Tortora asked during the Dec. 1
call, according to a transcript of it prosecutors submitted with
their request.  “Dude, is your phone tapped?” Kuo replied.  “Wait, is the phone tapped?” Tortora asked, adding, “Why
do you ask that?”  “Uh, because I saw on the news, on Bloomberg,” Kuo said,
“that you and Todd are, uh, being investigated.”  Tight-Knit Group  Prosecutors say Newman and Chiasson were part of a tight-
knit group of fund managers, analysts and technology company
employees who traded stock tips. The U.S. said Chiasson and
Newman earned more than $63 million in illicit profits trading
in Dell and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)   Newman and Chiasson pleaded not guilty to the charges and
are scheduled to go on trial Oct. 29 before U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan. The judge today denied Newman’s request to try
the men separately.  Tortora’s recorded call with Kuo should be heard by the
jury during the trial, Stephen Fishbein and John Nathanson, two
lawyers for Todd Newman, said in a court filing, adding that
Tortora’s credibility “will be at issue.”  The recording should be heard because it “contains
statements by Mr. Tortora that he intends to blame Mr. Newman
for anything he has done wrong,” the lawyers said.  During the December call, Kuo told Tortora: “The best
thing to do, for you, right now is to push every responsibility
up to Todd,” according to the transcript.  Defense Lawyer  Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson, declined to comment
on the government’s request to block the recordings.  In the December 2010 call, Kuo questioned Tortora about his
reason for phoning him.  “To be honest with you, I don’t even know why I’m taking
your call,” Kuo said, adding, “I have high suspicion that this
phone line could be tapped.”  During the call, both men discussed possible defense
strategies they could raise, such as their reliance on “channel
checks,” or a review of publicly available data on a company,
or a “mosaic” of legitimate research they’ve compiled.  Tortora said on the call that he had gone in to speak to
the FBI and that they’d questioned him about Newman.  “You might consider hiring yourself a lawyer,” Kuo said,
noting news reports that that Diamondback was one of four funds
being investigated.  Raj Rajaratnam  The two also discussed the insider-trading case of former
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam and his co-
defendants,  Danielle Chiesi , a former New Castle Partners LLC
portfolio manager and Richard Choo-Beng Lee, a former partner at
Spherix Capital LLC.  “Don’t get your name on the same list as you know, Raj,
whoever, Danielle Chiesi, and you know, C.B. Lee and all those
guys, you know what I’m saying?” Kuo told Tortora.  Kuo warned Tortora during the call about talking to the
U.S. and implicating others, including Newman.  “I’m not trying to say you should throw Todd under the
bus,” Kuo said. “Before throwing names out there, consider the
consequences.”  Kuo concludes the call with a final warning to Tortora
about making future calls from his personal telephones.  “I would seriously invest in some quarters, and start
calling from 7-Elevens,” Kuo said.  Prosecutors said in court papers that certain calls made at
the direction of the FBI shouldn’t be played by Newman and
Chiasson during the trial because they are hearsay. The U.S.
also said they don’t expect to call Kuo as a witness, so any
recordings that include him shouldn’t be heard by the jury.  “Tortora’s statements primarily reflect instructions he
received from the FBI for purposes of ultimately eliciting
admissions from Kuo,” prosecutors said. “The recordings are
unfairly prejudicial and could cause juror confusion.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court
at   rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 