-- Chicago Agency Overbilling U.S. Told to Change Mileage Claims
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-10-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/chicago-agency-overbilling-u-s-told-to-change-mileage-claims.html
The  Chicago  Transit Authority
collected more federal aid than it should have after inflating
mileage covered by its bus routes, the U.S. Transportation
Department said.  The Federal Transit Administration in April ordered the
Chicago system to revise its 2011 tally of revenue-producing
miles, which helps determine U.S. funding, and to change the way
it counts mileage from now on, FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff
said in a statement. Chicago’s public-transportation system is
the third-largest in the U.S. by bus ridership.  “FTA has no indication that the CTA used any of the
formula funds for anything other than eligible purposes to
provide needed transit services to the public,” Rogoff said.  Cause of Action, a Washington-based research organization,
in a report last week suggested the federal government was slow
to investigate “Chicago-style fraud” at the authority because
Transportation Department General Counsel Robert Rivkin held the
same post at CTA from 2001 to 2004 and  Valerie Jarrett , a senior
adviser to President  Barack Obama , was chairman of the agency’s
board from 1995 to 2003.  The Cause of Action report cited a 2007 Illinois state
audit that said Chicago’s transit system may have received as
much as $5 million a year in extra U.S. funding for as long as
30 years. After its investigation, the FTA said the amount was
closer to $700,000 to $800,000 a year.  Fraud Accusation  Chicago counted the distance between a bus garage and the
beginning or end of scheduled routes as revenue-producing miles,
Rogoff said. It was told in April to stop counting those so-
called deadhead miles.  Including deadhead miles boosted funding by about 0.2
percent to 0.3 percent of CTA’s grant from the transit
administration, Rogoff said. The U.S. didn’t ask Chicago to
recalculate its bus mileage for previous years because the
agency had acted in good faith, Rogoff said.  Cause of Action’s executive director, Daniel Epstein,
previously worked for a foundation started by Koch Industries
Inc. Chief Executive Officer  Charles Koch , a billionaire
contributor to Republican-leaning causes, and was counsel for
Republican U.S. Representative  Darrell Issa ’s House Oversight
and Government Reform Committee.  Rivkin and Jarrett weren’t aware of the U.S. investigation
and neither played a role in the outcome, the Transportation
Department said in a statement. While at CTA, neither person had
any involvement with bus-mileage reporting, which was handled by
the staff, said Brian Steele, a Chicago transit agency
spokesman.  No Gaming  Federal money may have been paid out inappropriately back
to 1982 and laws may have broken, Epstein said. His group asked
the FTA, the Transportation Department’s inspector general and
the  Justice Department  to investigate.  “What the FTA did not do was investigate whether there was
wrongdoing in previous years,” Epstein said. “Their job is to
refer these kinds of things to Inspector General Cal Scovel to
investigate whether fraud occurred, and if fraud occurred,
justice needs to be done.”  Federal authorities don’t think the Chicago Transit
Authority was trying to game the system, Rogoff said. The
mileage is among 21 factors the federal agency uses to allocate
transit funding to local bus systems.  The Transportation Department’s inspector general is
auditing the FTA’s oversight of the National Transportation
Database, including the reporting of bus mileage, said David
Wonnenberg, a spokesman for Scovel’s’s office.  The audit will examine FTA oversight “to ensure that
submission from grant recipients and beneficiaries of these
transit funds are complete, accurate and timely,” Wonnenberg
said.  99 Percent  Wonnenberg declined to comment on whether the office is
looking into fraud, citing a policy of not confirming or denying
the existence of investigations.  The 2007 Illinois audit said CTA reported that its buses
produced revenue on 99 percent of miles driven, compared with
about 87 percent at comparable mass-transit systems.  The difference reflected the fact that Chicago’s bus
garages are located close to the city’s routes and CTA has had a
policy of picking up passengers if buses are flagged down
between the garage and the start of a route, Steele said.  CTA has always followed the transit administration’s
guidelines in reporting transit data, Steele said. FTA changed
its definition of revenue service in 2011, which forced the
recalculation, he said.  “We’ve used the same methodology for almost 30 years,”
Steele said. “Each year, the FTA has verified that we’ve met
all of the federal reporting requirements and has accepted the
conclusions of our reports.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  