-- Citigroup Reviving Bond Underwriting Couldn’t Save Pandit
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-10-23T16:02:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/citigroup-bumping-bofa-couldn-t-preserve-pandit-credit-markets.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , which last week
ousted Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit over management
missteps, is staging a comeback in corporate-bond underwriting
as it helps overseas companies borrow in the U.S.  Citigroup, the top underwriter of bond sales worldwide in
the decade before the 2008 financial crisis, managed 6.1 percent
of  sales  this year through yesterday, up from 5.7 percent in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg that excludes
self-led deals. The New York-based lender climbed to second in
rankings from fourth last year, closing in on  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and relegating  Bank of America Corp.  to third.  From  Asia  to the U.S., issuance of corporate bonds totals
$3.2 trillion this year, second only to 2009’s pace, as central
banks led by the  Federal Reserve  cut  interest rates  to record
lows and investors seek riskier assets. Citigroup’s global reach
has helped it win underwriting business from companies including
 Heineken NV (HEIA)  and Nippon Life Insurance Co. looking to tap U.S.
markets amid unprecedented demand for dollar-denominated assets.  Citigroup views “underwriting, particularly in an
environment where yields are still dropping, as a lower risk and
more profitable activity,” Anthony Valeri, market strategist at
 LPL Financial  in  San Diego , said in a telephone interview. “It
probably seems like an easier decision given the Fed’s support
of the  bond market  and the demand to refinance.”  Dominance Lost  Citigroup is reclaiming some of the dominance it lost
during the financial crisis four years ago, when the U.S.
government injected $45 billion and taxpayers guaranteed more
than $300 billion of assets to prevent its failure. After ceding
the top rankings to JPMorgan and Bank of America, the bank is
reemerging after shoring up capital and bolstering its balance
sheet with  deposits  approaching $1 trillion.  “It has now got enough capital to more aggressively go
after the market,”  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale
Securities LLC in Lutz,  Florida , said in a telephone interview.
“It is now able to go back to its customers and say, ‘We can do
this underwriting for you and do it more cheaply.’”  Elsewhere in credit markets, swaps-market participants will
have a grace period before trades are required to be cleared,
settling confusion over a rule that will begin early next year,
said Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .
Clear Channel Communications Inc. received the consent of its
lenders to amend the agreement to its credit facilities.  Credit Swaps  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to bet on creditworthiness, jumped the most in
four weeks, climbing 3.7 basis points to 97.7 basis points as of
11:58 a.m. in  New York , according to prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  The  Markit iTraxx Europe Index , tied to the debt of 125
investment-grade companies, rose 5.4 to 128.3, the biggest
increase since Sept. 26.  Both indexes typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Swap Spreads  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.48 basis point to 10 basis
points. The gauge, which narrows when investors favor assets
such as corporate bonds and widens when they seek the perceived
safety of  government securities , touched 8 basis points on Oct.
17, the lowest level in Bloomberg data back to 1988.  Firms dealing in  $648 trillion  of outstanding swaps
contracts expected that trading during a phase-in period
wouldn’t need to be processed by central clearinghouses,
according to an Oct. 5 e-mail sent to clients by Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP, which represents the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association. While the firms were wrong,
misreading one sentence in 17,000 words of regulation, Gensler
said today the idea was always to allow a grace period.  “I know what I believed when I voted on it, it was
prospective,” he told reporters today at Sifma’s annual
conference in New York, saying that the market needs time to
adjust to the “paradigm shift” of bringing U.S. oversight to
unregulated interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps and to
move them into clearinghouses. “This was an easy one for me,”
Gensler said.  Clear Channel  The Clear Channel amendments will allow the San Antonio-
based radio and billboard company to exchange term loans for as
much as $5 billion in new debt securities, to prepay portions of
its term loans, to allow for below par repurchases of term loans
and to repay junior debt, as well as other debt management
measures, according to a statement today distributed by  Business
Wire .  The amendment will become effective with the closing of an
offer to exchange a portion of the company’s term loans,
according to the statement.  Bonds of Citigroup are the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with 160
trades of $1 million or more as of 11:54 a.m. in New York,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The bank sold $1.5 billion of 5.95 percent perpetual
preferred notes yesterday that switch to a floating rate after
10 years, Bloomberg data show. The securities rose 1.5 cents to
101.5 cents on the dollar, according to Trace.  Reclaiming Share  Citigroup helped manage $167 billion of global  sales  this
year, up from $146.5 billion in 2011, Bloomberg data show. In
the U.S., the bank moved up one level this year to become the
second-largest underwriter of investment-grade debt with 11.3
percent market share, up from 9.9 percent in 2011. In U.S. high-
yield bonds, it remains the fifth-largest with 8.2 percent, down
from 8.9 percent last year.  One of the lender’s biggest gains has been in managing
sales in the U.S. market for foreign companies as borrowing
costs in the nation plunge to all-time lows and  Europe ’s fiscal
crisis increases demand for the dollar’s relative safety.  “The U.S. dollar market continues to be viewed as the most
reliable source of liquidity globally, particularly as local
markets become more constrained,” Peter Aherne, Citigroup’s
head of North America investment-grade capital markets,
syndicate and new products in New York, said in a telephone
interview.  Foreign Issuance  Citigroup has led 11.7 percent of dollar-denominated
investment-grade issuance this year by non-U.S. corporate
borrowers, Bloomberg data show. That’s the most of any bank and
up from a fifth-place ranking last year with a 9.3 percent
share.  The bank “has a large corporate client base and it’s just
natural that it should be a big player in debt underwriting,”
Richard Staite, an analyst at Atlantic Equities LLP in  London ,
said in a telephone interview.  Citigroup served earlier this month as one of the managers
on a $3.25 billion, four-part sale by Amsterdam-based Heineken,
the world’s third-biggest beer-maker, to fund the acquisition of
Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd. It helped run a $2 billion sale by
Nippon Life,  Japan ’s biggest life insurer, on Oct. 11 of 30-year
subordinated debt.  Citigroup directors replaced Pandit with  Michael Corbat  on
Oct. 16 after concluding his mismanagement of operations caused
setbacks with regulators and cost credibility with investors, a
person with knowledge of the discussions said. Board members
ousted Pandit even as the bank increased total  deposits  to 944.6
billion, the highest level in Bloomberg data going back to 1996.  ‘Compete Meaningfully’  “In the last 12 months they’ve been able to come back
pretty nicely,” Bove said. “You want to watch liquidity,
capital and their spread-to-Treasuries in borrowing. You put all
those things together and you got a company which is able to
compete meaningfully for this business.”  The extra yield investors demand on average to own the
bank’s bonds instead of Treasuries has plunged to 160 basis
points through yesterday from 402 basis points at the end of
2011 and compares with an average 167 among its U.S. peers, Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  The cost to protect against losses on Citigroup debt using
credit-default swaps has dropped 47 percent this year and
reached a more than 15-month low of 139 basis points on Oct. 17,
prices compiled by Bloomberg show.  The bank posted a surprise third-quarter profit last week,
reporting third-quarter net income of $468 million, or 15 cents
a share, according to an Oct. 15 statement. Including one-time
items, analysts estimated Citigroup would post a loss of $777
million.  Sales of global corporate bonds are the busiest on record
after $3.3 trillion during the same period in 2009, Bloomberg
data show. Issuance by overseas borrowers in U.S. markets is at
record levels, with $494.1 billion issued this year compared
with $418.7 billion in the same period last year.  “We aspire to be a prominent player, a top three player,
in each of our underwriting business,” Aherne said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  