-- Clear Channel Lenders Give Consent for $5 Billion Debt Plan
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   R i c h a r d   B r a v o
-- 2012-10-23T17:24:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/clear-channel-lenders-give-consent-for-5-billion-debt-plan-1-.html
Clear Channel Communications Inc.
received permission from lenders allowing for the exchange of as
much as $5 billion of debt.  The amendment allows the radio and billboard company to
exchange term loans, to prepay portions of the debt, to allow
for below par repurchases of term loans and to repay junior
debentures as well as other measures in return for the new
financing, San Antonio-based Clear Channel said yesterday in a
statement distributed by  Business Wire .  The transaction will help Clear Channel extend nearer-term
obligations that include $1.1 billion of loans due in 2014,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company would still
have to deal with more than $12 billion of debt maturing in 2016
that was put in place to finance its 2008 buyout by Bain Capital
Partners LLC and Thomas H. Lee Partners LP, the data show.  “The amendments provide Clear Channel with additional
flexibility to deal with upcoming maturities,” Karen Klapper,
an analyst at debt research firm CreditSights Inc., said in a
telephone interview today. “To address the debt coming due in
2016, a lot of things have to fall in place.”  Priority guarantee notes yielding 9 percent and maturing in
2019 were offered in exchange for $2 billion of term loans. More
than $8 billion of loans were submitted for exchange by the time
the offer expired on Oct. 19, the company said. To compensate
for the additional demand, Clear Channel will reduce the term
loans accepted from each lender on a pro rata basis.  The company’s $1.75 billion of 9 percent notes due March
2021 have gained 6.2 cents to 89.7 cents on the dollar from this
year’s low reached on July 31, according to Trace, the bond-
price reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. The bonds traded as high as 92 cents this month, the
data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Richard Bravo in New York at 
 rbravo5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  