-- Cnooc Drives Drop as Economy Cuts Rally: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-10-23T21:12:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/cnooc-drives-drop-as-economy-cuts-rally-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  tumbled from a five-
month high in  New York , spurred by declines in energy and
commodities producers, on speculation the past month’s rally was
overdone given lingering concerns over the global economy.  The Bloomberg  China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. sank 1.3 percent to 95.41
yesterday, the biggest drop in a month. PetroChina Co. slipped
as crude declined to a three-month low.  Cnooc Ltd. (883)  slumped to
widen the discount to its  Hong Kong  shares to the most in four
months, on concern the Beijing-based oil producer’s bid for
 Nexen Inc. (NXY)  may not get Canadian approval.  Chinese equities in the U.S. rallied over the past month to
trade at their  highest valuation  since August last week, as data
showing rising industrial production and retail sales sparked
optimism the slowdown in Asia’s largest economy was bottoming.
The basis for economic stabilization isn’t “firm” enough and
 China  will remain proactive on fiscal policy, the  Finance
Ministry  said yesterday, according to a Xinhua News Agency
report posted on the  government’s website .  “Markets had gotten very high and there has been too much
complacency, yet there are a whole host of global economic
issues that have yet to be resolved,” Kevin Pollack, a managing
director at Paragon Capital in New York, said by phone
yesterday. “Investors should be cautious going into the end of
the year and early next year as there remains significant
downside risk.”  Valuation Slips  Companies in the Bloomberg China-US gauge are trading at
13.5 times estimated 12-month earnings, slipping for a third day
from a two-month high of 14.7 times reached on Oct. 18.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 1.8 percent to
$36.98, the biggest slump since Sept. 4. The  Standard & Poor’s
500 Index (SPX)  lost 1.4 percent to 1,413.11.  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards on China’s  yuan 
weakened 0.15 percent to 6.3735 per dollar, after the currency
climbed 0.11 percent to 6.2480 against the greenback in  Shanghai 
yesterday.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares declined
0.9 percent yesterday to 2,114.45, after reaching a six-week
high a day earlier. Markets in Hong Kong were closed for a
holiday.  Cnooc, the largest offshore oil explorer, sank 2.2 percent
to $204.06, the biggest loss in seven weeks. Cnooc’s ADRs traded
3.1 percent below its Hong Kong shares, the widest discount
since June 21.  Nexen Deal  Canada plans to ask China to allow several transactions in
exchange for approval of Cnooc’s purchase of Calgary-based
Nexen, a person with knowledge of the matter told Bloomberg
reporters yesterday.  British Columbia Energy Minister Rich Coleman said
yesterday he is disappointed by Canadian government’s decision
to reject Petroliam Nasional Bhd.’s bid for Calgary-based
 Progress Energy Resources Corp. (PRQ)  on Oct. 19.  ADRs of PetroChina, the nation’s biggest oil producer,
declined for a third day, falling 1.9 percent to $137.9, the
largest slump since Sept. 4.  Crude oil for December delivery declined 2.3 percent to
$86.67 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the lowest
settlement since July 12.  Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC) , China’s fourth-largest miner of
the fuel, fell 2.1 percent to $16.13 in New York. The company is
 scheduled  to report results for the first nine months on Oct.
26.  ‘Poor’ Coal Outlook  China’s coal sector may show “poor” results for the third
quarter, and Yanzhou’s profit is estimated to fall 32 percent
from the previous three months,  Helen Lau , an analyst at  Uob-Kay
Hian Holdings Ltd. (UOBK) , wrote in an Oct. 19 note. The profit
declines were due to an 18 percent drop in thermal coal prices
and 15 percent decline in coking coal prices from the prior
quarter, Lau said in the report.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd, the country’s largest producer
of the light metal, sank 2.2 percent to $11.3, the steepest loss
in four weeks. The American depositary receipts, each
representing 25 underlying shares, traded 3 percent  below  the
Hong Kong stock, the widest discount since May 15.  The 30-day  volatility  in the Bloomberg China-US gauge rose
to 17.5 yesterday from 16.9 the previous day, and compares with
this year’s average of 23.1.  The  Bloomberg Chinese Reverse Mergers Index (CHINARTO) , which tracks a
basket of companies that gained U.S. listings after buying firms
that already trade, dipped 0.6 percent to 71.66 after rising the
most in a week on Oct. 22.  Guangshen Earnings  Guangshen Railway Co. (GSH) , a train operator based in China’s
Guangdong province, is due to release nine-month earnings
tomorrow in Hong Kong. Its ADRs slid 1.2 percent to a one-week
low of $17.74, extending a three-day retreat.  “Earnings will probably lag a bit the real upticks in
growth we’re trying to find in China, U.S. and elsewhere,” Alex
Ashby, a New York-based analyst at Global X Management Co.,
which manages $1.3 billion, said by phone yesterday. “We
probably won’t start to see a lot more investment on the side of
companies until the first quarter of 2013.”  TAL Education Group (XRS)  surged 3.2 percent to $8.88 yesterday,
rising the most in a week. The Beijing-based tutoring service
provider said profit for the three months ended Aug. 31 jumped
50 percent from a year earlier to $16 million as sales increased
32 percent.  “Some companies are benefiting profit-wise from cost
cutting measures and other efficiencies” when the economy
slows, Ashby at Global X said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  