-- Coach Profit Tops Estimates as Cost Gains Are Contained
-- B y   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-10-23T13:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/coach-profit-tops-estimates-as-cost-gains-are-contained.html
Coach Inc. (COH) , the largest U.S. luxury
handbag maker, reported fiscal first-quarter profit that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as it kept expenses for
acquisitions and e-commerce from increasing too quickly.  Net income rose 3 percent to $221.4 million, or 77 cents a
share, in the three months ended Sept. 29, from $215 million, or
73 cents a share, a year earlier, New York-based Coach said
today in a statement. Analysts projected 75 cents, the average
of 28  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer Lew Frankfort has said that Coach
is in “an investment year” and that results would be
reduced by accelerated acquisitions and increased spending on e-
commerce. Coach sacrificed some profitability to maintain sales
momentum in  North America , said  Liz Dunn , an analyst with
Macquarie Group in  New York .  “They gave up some upside on the margin to fuel sales,”
Dunn, who recommends buying the shares, said in a phone
interview today. “They managed expenses better than we thought
they would. I think they did the balancing act well.”  Gross margin , the share of sales left after subtracting the
cost of goods sold, was unchanged at 72.8 percent, Coach said.
Analysts estimated 73 percent, on average.  Coach climbed 7.1 percent to $58.02 at 9:38 a.m. in New
York and earlier increased as much as 8 percent for the biggest
intraday gain since Aug. 23, 2011. The shares had fallen 11
percent this year through yesterday.  Sales Climb  Total  revenue  in the quarter increased 11 percent to $1.16
billion, matching the average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Selling, general and administrative expenses grew to 44.2
percent of sales from 42.1 percent.  David Schick , an analyst
with  Stifel Financial Corp. (SF)  in Baltimore, estimated 44.7
percent.  Coach used promotions in its own full-priced stores and
factory outlets as well as at department stores to drive sales,
according to analysts including Corinna Freedman at Wedbush
Securities and Christian Buss at Credit Suisse Group AG.  The company during the quarter introduced its Legacy line,
inspired by its archives of classic leathergoods, which it
called its most significant product debut since 2001.  Coach also said today that its board had authorized the
buyback of as much as $1.5 billion in stock by June 30, 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  