-- Congo’s Gecamines Plans 500 Megawatt Coal-Fired Plant
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   K a v a n a g h
-- 2012-10-24T11:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/congo-s-gecamines-plans-500-megawatt-coal-fired-plant-for-miners.html
Gecamines,  Democratic Republic  of
Congo’s state-owned copper miner, will build a 500-megawatt
coal-fired plant to help mining companies address electricity
shortages, Chief Executive Officer Ahmed Kalej Nkand said.  Gecamines, based in the southern town of Lubumbashi, is
undertaking a feasibility study for the 500 million euro ($648
million) thermal power plant, which will use coal from Luena in
Katanga province, Nkand said.  “In 36 months we could have the center operational,” he
said in an interview at the iPad mining and infrastructure
conference in Lubumbashi yesterday. The company will make the
power available to miners in Katanga, he said.  Mining companies in the southern province, where deposits
have some of the world’s richest grades of copper and cobalt,
have been forced to buy power from neighboring Zambia and use
generators to meet production targets.  Glencore International Plc (GLEN) ’s  Katanga Mining Ltd. (KAT)  is
investing more than $300 million to rehabilitate  power lines  and
a hydroelectric plant that will guarantee about 450 megawatts of
power for their projects by 2016. Some of the power will also go
to Glencore’s Mutanda and Kansuki copper and cobalt projects,
which will reimburse part of Katanga’s costs.  Freeport McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Tenke project, the
largest copper producer in the country, needs another 200
megawatts of power to eventually increase production to more
than 400,000 metric tons of the metal a year, Andre Kapanga,
Tenke’s head of external relations, told the conference.  No Goal  Without immediate investment in power, Congo’s Mines
Ministry can’t achieve its goal of almost tripling copper output
to 1.5 million tons in 2016, Kapanga said. Congo’s copper
production could rise to more than 600,000 tons this year from
520,000 tons last year, Barthelemy Mumba Gamba, provincial mines
minister for Katanga, said yesterday.  Gecamines will use some of the power from the plant to
increase its own copper production to 100,000 tons a year from
about 30,000 tons, Nkand said. Talks on financing are “very
advanced,” Nkand said without naming the potential backers.
Gecamines will hand over management of the plant to Congo’s
state-owned electric company or another management group, he
said.  The company is also in talks with the  Development Bank  of
Southern Africa about securing $270 million in financing, which
may be concluded by December, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Kavanagh in Kinshasa at 
 mkavanagh9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  