-- New Orleans Copper Orders Create Perceived Tightness
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-10-23T15:44:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/copper-orders-in-new-orleans-seen-creating-perceived-tightness.html
(Corrects to impression in third paragraph.)  A surge in orders to remove copper
from New Orleans stockpiles tracked by the London Metal Exchange
may create the impression the market is tightening, according to
 Standard Bank  Plc.  The orders, also known as canceled warrants, increased the
most since June 11 overall, gaining 29 percent to 48,075 metric
tons as 11,550 tons was earmarked for delivery in New Orleans,
LME figures showed today. Copper bookings in the city climbed 44
percent to 37,875 tons, the highest level since March.  The jump “gives the impression that the copper market is
tightening up,”  Leon Westgate , a London-based analyst at
Standard Bank, said in a report. “The LME is still the global
reference price, and the cancellations may well impact on
sentiment and therefore how the spreads behave.”  LME copper stockpiles, down 40 percent this year, may be
unrepresentative of the metal’s availability given elevated
inventories in  China , Westgate wrote. Stocks monitored by the
Shanghai Futures Exchange are the highest in more than five
months. China is the biggest copper consumer, accounting for 41
percent of global demand, Barclays Plc estimates.  The bookings “look a little strange from the point of view
of a potential customer” in light of waiting times required to
withdraw metal in  New Orleans , Westgate wrote. The copper
earmarked for delivery may belong to the owner of the warehouse
where it is held, and the cancellation will remove the metal
from the market while putting it in line to benefit from a
potential increase in premiums at the start of 2013, he wrote.  Withdrawing canceled metal from New Orleans may take as
long as 30 weeks at the current minimum delivery rate of 3,000
tons a day, Bloomberg calculations show. The city holds 66
percent of LME zinc stockpiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  