-- U.S. Corporate Credit Swaps Rise; Plains Exploration Plans Bonds
-- B y   P e t e r   R a w l i n g s
-- 2012-10-23T21:02:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/corporate-credit-default-swaps-in-u-s-increase-to-six-day-high.html
A gauge of U.S. corporate credit
risk rose to the highest in seven days after companies reported
results that missed analyst estimates and as  Spain ’s economy
contracted for a fifth quarter.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, climbed 2.7
basis points to a mid-price of 96.7 basis points at 4:37 p.m. in
 New York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. The index
earlier rose by as much as 3.9 basis points, the biggest
intraday jump since Sept. 25.  Shares of DuPont Co. and  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  both fell
after reporting earnings that trailed analyst estimates, stoking
concern that the economic recovery is slowing and weakening
confidence in companies’ ability to repay debt. The 0.4 percent
contraction last quarter in Spain’s gross domestic product added
pressure on Premier  Mariano Rajoy  to seek more European aid.  “You’re seeing some concerns in terms of credit right now
because of the likes of DuPont,” Scott Carmack, a portfolio
manager at Leader Capital Corp. in  Portland ,  Oregon , said in a
telephone interview. “You have earnings numbers that miss their
estimates and set that against a backdrop of political
uncertainty and the market’s going to react to that.”  Plains Offering  The credit-swaps index typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. The contracts
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  Plains Exploration & Production Co. (PXP) , the oil and gas
producer, sold $3 billion of bonds in two parts to help fund the
purchase of assets from BP Plc and Royal Dutch Shell Plc. The
company issued equal $1.5 billion portions of eight-year debt to
yield 6.5 percent and 10.5-year securities to yield 6.875
percent, Bloomberg data show.  The average relative yield on investment-grade debt
increased 2 basis points, while spreads on speculative-grade
securities widened 8 basis points, led by a 25-basis-point climb
for bonds of utilities companies.  The U.S. two-year interest rate swap spread, a measure of
stress in credit markets, rose 1.23 basis point to 10.75 basis
points. The measure, which rises when investors seek the
perceived safety of  government securities  and falls when they
favor assets such as corporate bonds, last week touched the
narrowest on an intraday basis since at least 1988, or as far
back as Bloomberg tracks the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Rawlings in New York at 
 prawlings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  