-- Cosan Catching Up With Ultrapar After Gas Plan
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i ,   A d r i a n a   A r a i   a n d   M a r i s a   C a s t e l l a n i
-- 2012-10-23T22:23:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/cosan-catching-up-with-ultrapar-after-gas-plan.html
Cosan SA Industria & Comercio (CSAN3) , the
sugar producer expanding into gas distribution, says a $1.8
billion acquisition is boosting its value closer to that of its
biggest Brazilian peer.  The  purchase  of Cia. de Gas de Sao Paulo, Brazil’s largest
natural-gas distributor, will boost earnings and help narrow the
gap between the valuations of Cosan and  Ultrapar Participacoes
SA (UGPA3) , said Chief Financial Officer Marcelo Martins. Sao Paulo-
based Cosan, the co-owner of the world’s largest sugar-cane
processor, trades at a 40 percent discount to Ultrapar, based on
estimated 2013 price-to-earnings ratio, according to a Banco
Itau BBA SA research report this month.  “Investors are underestimating the potential gains from
the acquisition of Comgas,” Martins told reporters at the
opening of a Cosan terminal yesterday in Itirapina,  Brazil .
“The multiples relative to Ultrapar will narrow.”  Cosan, whose 40 percent rally this year is more than 10
times the gain for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index, is
diversifying into fuel distribution and logistics to create an
integrated energy company. Sugar and ethanol, Cosan’s core
business until 2008, will account for 22 percent of earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and appreciation in 2013,
according to Itau BBA estimates.  Cosan trades  at about 12 times its estimated 2013 earnings,
while Sao Paulo-based Ultrapar, whose shares gained 30 percent
this year before today, has a ratio of 20, according to Itau
BBA. Cosan has a market value of 15.4 billion reais ($7.6
billion), compared with Ultrapar’s 22.6 billion reais.  Cosan fell 1.8 percent to 37.13 reais in  Sao Paulo  today as
Ultrapar gained 1.4 percent to 42.15 reais. The Bovespa index
fell 1.7 percent.  ‘Building a Reputation’  An official at Ultrapar, who can’t be identified because of
company policy, declined to comment.  Ultrapar’s growth opportunities are more limited than
Cosan’s and Ultrapar is fairly priced, said Andre Facury, an
analyst with Perfin Investimentos, which manages 1.7 billion
reais in Sao Paulo, including Cosan. Cosan will also benefit
once it consolidates its two classes of stock into one, he said.  “When they resolve this corporate governance issue, the
perception that foreign investors have of the company will
change,” Facury said in a telephone interview.  Peers?  While investors normally see Cosan and Ultrapar as peers,
the companies are very different in nature and can’t be compared
with each other, said Auro Rozenbaum, an analyst at Banco
Bradesco SA who covers Brazilian energy companies.  Ultrapar is a holding company with businesses in chemicals
production, fuel distribution and liquid storage in port
terminals. The company reported second-quarter earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization of 579 million
reais, of which 375 million reais came from Ipiranga, its
service station division.  “Investors pay a premium for Ultrapar because the company
has shown resilience even during the worst economic crisis --
it’s a defensive stock,” Rozenbaum said in a telephone
interview from Sao Paulo. “Cosan, on the other hand, is
building a reputation. They are doing a good job, but it is
still a story that is being written.”  Exxon Purchase  Of the 16  analysts  who rate Cosan, 11 say buy. Ultrapar has
three buy  ratings , five holds and 2 sell recommendations.  Profit at Cosan, which used to swing with sugar and ethanol
prices, has become more stable since it expanded into fuel
distribution by buying Exxon Mobil Corp.’s Brazilian unit in
2008, Martins said. In 2010, Cosan agreed to combine some assets
including service stations and sugar and ethanol mills with
Royal Dutch Shell Plc.’s Brazilian unit to create the country’s
third-largest fuel distributor after Petroleo Brasileiro SA and
Ultrapar.  The fuel-distribution’s unit’s  ebitda  more than doubled
from a year earlier to 367.4 million reais in the fiscal first
quarter ended June 30, while the sugar-cane crushing business
posted a drop in Ebitda of 21 percent to 323.5 million reais.  “Cosan’s good performance year to date reflects, to some
extent, market recognition of the similarities between its story
and Ultrapar’s,” Itau BBA analysts led by Paula Kovarsky said
in an Oct. 11 report. “The company has more to capture on a
relative basis.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucia Kassai in Sao Paulo at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Arai in Sao Paulo at 
 aarai1@bloomberg.net ;
Marisa Castellani in Sao Paulo at 
 mcastellani7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  