-- U.S. Dealer Group Seeks Tesla Meeting on Retail Plans
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l   a n d   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2012-10-24T20:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/dealer-group-leaving-tesla-retail-challenge-to-states.html
The National Automobile Dealers
Association, which represents almost 16,000 new-vehicle dealers,
said it’s seeking to meet with electric-car maker  Tesla Motors
Inc. (TSLA)  about its retail network plans.  “NADA has serious concerns about Tesla’s intentions,”
Chairman William Underriner said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “We are seeking a meeting with Tesla executives,
including its CEO Elon Musk, to discuss these concerns.”  Tesla, the maker of the Model S, is defending its retailing
strategy against lawsuits by state auto dealer groups. David
Westcott, who was elected this month as chairman of NADA for
2013, said earlier yesterday in an interview that the McLean,
Virginia-based group would leave it to states to challenge Tesla
based on their respective franchise laws.  Tesla, which is using using a company-owned store and
service center strategy, has modeled its showrooms after  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s outlets. George Blankenship, vice president of sales, is
a former real estate executive for Cupertino, California-based
Apple who designed that company’s retail sites.  The carmaker was sued this month by dealer groups in  New
York  and Massachusetts, which claimed that Tesla’s strategy
violates franchise laws. The company’s strategy is needed to
properly educate potential customers about its electric cars,
Musk said in an Oct. 22  blog post .  “Existing franchise dealers have a fundamental conflict of
interest between selling gasoline cars, which constitute the
vast majority of their business, and selling the new technology
of electric cars,” Musk wrote on  Palo Alto , California-based
Tesla’s website. “It is impossible for them to explain the
advantages of going electric without simultaneously undermining
their traditional business.”  State Dependent  Dealers’ concerns with Tesla are “a state-by-state issue
depending on specific franchise laws,” Underriner said in the
statement.  “Individual state dealer associations will decide whether
to proceed with legal action against Tesla Motors,” he said.
“NADA supports the franchised new-car dealer system, and will
provide legal support to state dealer associations if
necessary.”  NADA has “a whole mess of lawyers in  Washington ” who work
on state franchise laws, Underriner told reporters yesterday at
an Automotive Press Association meeting in  Detroit .  Tesla’s product specialists can’t sell cars because the
Model S is “sold out” several months in advance and there is
“no inventory” on site, Musk said in his blog post. “All they
can do is get you to consider placing a reservation.”  Tesla has been criticized by officials at state auto dealer
groups that have sued the electric-car maker.  ‘Outright Scam’  “They claim they’re operating under the guise of a non-
sales showroom, and we call that out as an outright scam,”
Robert O’Koniewski, executive vice president of the
Massachusetts association, told  Automotive News , an industry
trade publication.  In  Massachusetts , the state automobile dealers association
filed a lawsuit over Tesla’s recent opening of an automobile
showroom in the Natick Mall, about 20 miles west of  Boston . The
dealership association alleged in its complaint that Tesla
didn’t have a license to open the showroom and is violating a
state law prohibiting manufacturers from owning a dealership.  The dealers are seeking an injunction preventing the
electric-car maker from using the manufacturer-owned dealership
model in the state, arguing that it would allow Tesla
“financial savings which would not be available to
Massachusetts dealers who must spend considerably to conform to
Massachusetts law,” according to the complaint.  New York  A New York dealers association filed a similar lawsuit
asking the state to cancel a dealership license issued to a
Tesla unit for a location in  White Plains . The group also argued
that state law prohibits factory-owned motor vehicle
dealerships.  The two lawsuits are “starkly contrary to the spirit and
the letter of the law,” Musk wrote in his blog post. The
plaintiffs include a Fisker Automotive Inc. dealer and an auto
group that has “repeatedly demanded that it be granted a Tesla
franchise,” he said.  Tesla plans to have 19 stores, three galleries and 26
service centers by the end of this year in the U.S. More than 85
percent of all Model S reservation holders in  North America  will
be within 50 miles of one of the company’s service centers,
according to Musk.  Tesla fell 3.4 percent to $27.42 at the close in New York.  The Massachusetts case is Massachusetts State Automobile
Dealers Association Inc. et al v. Tesla Motors MA Inc. and Tesla
Motors Inc., NOCV2012-1691, Massachusetts Superior Court,
Norfolk County.  The New York case is Greater New York Automobile Dealers
Association and  Brian Miller  v. Department of Motor Vehicles of
the State of New York et al, New York Supreme Court, County of
 Albany .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Detroit at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;
Christie Smythe in New York at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  