-- Deer-Car Crashes Rise on Mild Winter, Led by W. Virginia
-- B y   S u s a n n a   P a k
-- 2012-10-23T15:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/deer-car-crashes-rise-on-mild-winter-led-by-w-virginia.html
U.S. motorists have had more mishaps
tied to deer, led by crashes in  West Virginia , according to
State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co., the biggest U.S.
home and car insurer.  Drivers had 1.23 million such collisions in the 12 months
ended June 30, about 7.7 percent more than a year earlier,
Bloomington, Illinois-based State Farm said in a statement
today. The increase followed a three-year period in which the
accidents slipped 2.2 percent and may have been fueled by a mild
winter in the U.S.  “Last deer season was an extremely warm season across much
of the country, and then we had a super, super easy winter,”
Kip Adams, a director at the  Quality Deer Management
Association , said in an interview before the report was
released. “We likely have more deer across much of the  United
States  this year than we did last year.”  Drivers in West Virginia are the most prone to the
collisions, with 1 in 40 motorists likely to strike a deer in
the next 12 months, State Farm said. That’s up from 1 in 48.
Hawaii is the state where drivers are least likely to strike
deer, with odds of about 1 in 6,800.  A larger deer population leads to an increase in collisions
because more of the animals are crossing roads to find food and
water, Adams said. October and November, which are part of the
mating season, are the most common months for the crashes, State
Farm said.  In West Virginia, the hunting season started on Sept. 29
this year, a week earlier than usual, with the goal of
controlling the deer population, Chris Ryan, a supervisor at the
state’s  Division of Natural Resources , said by phone.  West Virginia  The change is part of a plan “to hopefully harvest
additional animals” in targeted locations, Ryan said before the
report was released. Hunters “definitely wanted more time.”  Collisions typically take place at dawn and dusk, as
commuters are on the roads and deer are on the move, said  Susan
G. Clark , a Yale University professor who studies the
relationship between humans and deer.  “Deer don’t come programmed to be on the lookout for
cars,” she said in a phone interview. “They have no idea that
it could threaten their life. If it were a wolf, they would have
some idea of what to do.”  The collisions cost an average of $3,305 in property damage
nationwide, a 4.4 percent increase from a year earlier, State
Farm said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Pak in  New York  at 
 spak10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  