-- Delta Is No. 1 as Profitable Air Cargo Beats U.S. Peers
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-10-23T16:22:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/delta-is-no-1-as-profitable-air-cargo-beats-u-s-peers.html
Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) , bucking an
industry slump in cargo shipments, is packing more auto parts,
mail and salmon into the bellies of its passenger jets to beat
its largest U.S. competitors.  Delta is on a five-month streak of gains in cargo traffic,
bolstering the bottom line ahead of tomorrow’s  quarterly
earnings  report. The cargo operations produce $1 billion in
annual sales and profit margins that have topped 50 percent
because goods are flown on jets with fare-paying passengers.  The second-biggest carrier is jumping ahead of peers with a
wider network after the 2008 purchase of Northwest Airlines, new
markets and improved on-time performance. With the merger done,
Delta is expanding in cargo while  United Continental Holdings
Inc. (UAL)  finishes its own merger integration and American Airlines
parent  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ)  reorganizes in bankruptcy court.  “People underestimate the benefit of Delta having
integration behind them,” said Savanthi Syth, a Raymond James &
Associates Inc. analyst in St. Petersburg,  Florida . “United is
still trying to combine networks and cargo space tends to be one
of the last things that gets optimized. And American has been so
focused on their bankruptcy.”  Delta surpassed United, the world’s biggest airline, in
cargo tonnage in July as the Chicago-based carrier meshes former
United parent UAL Corp. and Continental Airlines Inc. The
Atlanta-based carrier’s cargo rose 1.1 percent through September
while United’s fell 6.4 percent and American’s slid 1.2 percent.  Cargo Margin  “We have definitely outpaced our peers,” Chief Cargo
Officer Tony Charaf said in an interview.  While Delta doesn’t typically give  profit-margin  details
for the unit, Charaf’s predecessor, Neel Shah, said in 2010 that
the figure was “well north” of 50 percent. The airline’s
overall operating margin last year was 6.3 percent.  That means Delta’s $1.03 billion in 2011 cargo revenue,
which made up only 2.9 percent of total sales, generated a
greater share of profit. Analysts project third-quarter  net
income  will climb 44 percent while United’s may drop 12 percent.
AMR reported last week that its quarterly loss widened on the
same basis.  “Delta is smart to be so aggressive on it, because almost
all of that revenue falls right to the bottom line,” said
 Helane Becker , an analyst at Dahlman Rose & Co. in New York.  Sustaining Delta’s gains will require the airline to keep
resisting the industry’s slowdown. Global cargo traffic is
projected to shrink 0.4 percent this year while yields will drop
2 percent, the International Air Transport Association trade
group said on Oct. 1.  Rate Cuts?  Some of Delta’s advances may flow from rate cuts to snatch
sales from rivals, Becker said. A 2 percent drop in first-half
cargo revenue while volumes rose is a possible sign of price
reductions, she said. Chicago-based United’s cargo revenue fell
12 percent in the same period and American’s slid 3.6 percent.  “Delta is probably being aggressive on price to get new
business, which they can afford to be,” said Becker, who has a
hold rating on the stock.  Charaf said Delta was benefiting from more-aggressive cargo
sales and declined to discuss rates, citing competitive reasons.
The airline will outline its cargo business’s performance in the
third quarter in tomorrow’s  earnings report .  Auto parts from  Europe ; electronics from  Taiwan ,  China  and
 Japan ; flowers from Colombia; blueberries from  Argentina ; and
salmon from  Chile  are helping expand the cargo business, Charaf
said in an interview.  Interline Agreements  Delta is also hauling 50 percent more mail for the U.S.
Postal Service than a year earlier after American exited that
segment, and striking accords with carriers such as Emirates to
reach countries it doesn’t serve with its own jets, Charaf said.
Delta is working on five new interline deals with partners
Charaf declined to name.  On-time flights help. Delta ranked first or second among
major carriers for each month in 2012 and had the fewest
cancellations, according to the U.S. Transportation Department
and FlightStats.com, an industry researcher. Since February,
United’s on-time arrival rate has ranked among the bottom three
of 15 U.S. carriers.  “Does that make a difference? Absolutely, because when we
commit, we deliver,” Charaf said. “You cancel a lot less
flights. That matters a lot, that really is a tremendous
advantage for us, no question.”  FedEx, UPS  Delta  rose 25 percent  in 2012 through yesterday, closing at
$10.14, to beat United’s 8.5 percent climb. The Bloomberg U.S.
Airlines Index of 10 carriers advanced 15 percent in the same
period. Delivery companies that fly cargo haven’t fared as well.
 FedEx Corp. (FDX)  gained 9.5 percent in the same period, while  United
Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  fell 2.2 percent.  Airlines typically handle pallets of cargo in large
volumes, setting them apart from UPS and FedEx, which move
smaller individual packages as well as business-to-business
shipments.  United pared cargo capacity when it got rid of some older
 Boeing Co. (BA)  747 jumbo jets and wide-body 767s, and it pulled some
767s off domestic routes and replaced them with 757s, said Mary
Ryan, a spokeswoman. One 767 now flies between Houston and  Lima 
to take advantage of cargo demand in those cities, she said.  American is focusing on Latin American cargo routes and
more-profitable international mail amid weakness in trans-
Atlantic markets and flight cuts that shrank cargo capacity,
said Sean Collins, a spokesman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based
carrier.  Timing Benefit  One of Delta’s advantages over American and United may be
timing: While American works through bankruptcy -- and tries to
fend off advances from  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC)  -- that episode in
Delta’s history is now over. Delta filed for court protection in
2005, beat back a US Airways takeover in January 2007 and exited
Chapter 11 about three months later.  Also in the past for Delta are the challenges that
accompany the combination of two separate airlines, a process
still under way at United after the 2010 tie-up with
Continental.  After buying Northwest in 2008, Delta Chief Executive
Officer Richard Anderson unloaded that carrier’s Boeing 747
freighters and focused on the business of loading freight cargo
in jetliners’ bellies.  “Now they’re reaping the benefits,” Raymond James’s Syth
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  