-- DeMarco Shrinks Fannie-Freddie Without Help From Congress
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n   a n d   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-10-23T12:58:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/demarco-shrinks-fannie-freddie-without-help-from-congress.html
The man with power over more than
half of U.S. mortgages lives in a 1961 brick split-level house.
There’s a basketball hoop in the driveway and a green Subaru
Outback in the carport. The homes on Edward J. DeMarco’s block
are so close that neighbors see into each other’s windows.  This surprised several dozen demonstrators, one in a
vampire costume, who arrived at DeMarco’s residence in a middle-
class  Washington  suburb last month to demand he quit his job as
acting director of the  Federal Housing Finance Agency .  “My home is better-looking than this,” said Catrese
Tucker, a Massachusetts toll collector whose property is in
foreclosure. “I don’t believe this is his home.”  As the overseer of mortgage giants  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and Freddie
Mac, DeMarco has become the focus of ire from homeowners and
lawmakers who want more aid for troubled borrowers, even as the
two government-run companies subsist on taxpayer life support
that now totals $190 billion.  The unassuming career economist is looking beyond the
current housing crisis, which shows signs of easing with  home
prices  finally on the rise. Instead, DeMarco is working toward a
day when the government no longer backs most U.S. home loans.  Republicans and Democrats in Congress and President  Barack Obama  all say they want to wind down and replace  Fannie Mae  and
Freddie Mac, yet they’ve been deadlocked on a solution. That
makes DeMarco perhaps the only official in Washington actively
working to shrink the government-sponsored enterprises.  Without Consent  “The FHFA under the leadership of Acting Director DeMarco
is slowly but surely enacting housing finance reform without the
guidance or consent of Congress,” said Isaac Boltansky, a
policy analyst for Compass Point Research & Trading LLC.
“That’s due in part to the complete inability for Congress to
find any consensus.”  Fannie Mae and  Freddie Mac  buy mortgages and package them
into securities on which they guarantee payments of principal
and interest. This adds liquidity to the housing market --
effectively taking the mortgages off banks’ books and freeing up
funds for lenders to make new loans.  The enterprises, which now own or back $5.2 trillion in
mortgages, pushed themselves to the brink of insolvency in 2008
after investing in risky loans. In what was supposed to be a
temporary arrangement, the federal government stepped in with a
financial lifeline and put the newly created FHFA in control.  Private Capital  Under DeMarco, the agency has begun changing how the two
companies charge for assuming mortgage risk, in an attempt to
lure private capital back into the market. It is also pushing
the formerly competing companies to synchronize their operations
and is working to create common standards and processes for
issuing mortgage-backed securities that could be adopted by any
entity, public or private.  In an interview, DeMarco said he sees these steps as
investments that could pay off no matter what lawmakers
eventually decide to do with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  “We are trying very hard to show positive progress towards
a future housing finance system in making repairs that address
some of the many shortcomings that contributed to the crisis,”
he said.  DeMarco, 52, has been focusing on Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac for most of a career that spans decades. At the same time,
he said, this isn’t where he expected to find himself four years
after the companies were taken into U.S. conservatorship.  Four-Year ‘Mess’  “When we put Fannie and Freddie into conservatorship, I
don’t think any of us thought it was going to be four years
before we got through this mess,” said James B. Lockhart,
DeMarco’s predecessor as director of FHFA, now vice chairman of
the investment firm WL Ross & Co. LLC.  The oldest of six children in a family that moved around
the U.S. following his father’s career as an engineer, DeMarco
attended Notre Dame University as an undergraduate, majoring in
economics.  “I was attracted to the notion that market economies are
vehicles for allocating scarce resources in an efficient
manner,” he said. “It’s those basic ideas that still very much
motivate me today.”  He went on to earn a doctorate in economics from the
 University of Maryland , writing his dissertation on taxes. He
began scrutinizing the government-sponsored enterprises in 1986
as a research fellow at what was then called the General
Accounting Office.  Implicit Guarantee  His conclusion, published in a 1990  report : Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac were operating with little oversight as private
companies backed by the implicit understanding that the Treasury
would rescue them if necessary. The companies needed much closer
federal supervision “to keep emerging problems from imposing
losses on taxpayers,” the report said. Later that decade, as a
Treasury official, DeMarco continued to warn that the
government-sponsored enterprises needed more oversight because
they posed risks to taxpayers.  In 2006, he became deputy director at the Office of Federal
Housing Oversight, the predecessor to FHFA. He began running
FHFA in an acting capacity after Lockhart’s departure in 2009.
DeMarco remains in the role today because Republicans in the
Senate have blocked White House attempts to install a political
appointee in his place.  The fact that he is now in charge of dealing with the mess
that he once warned about, he said, “gives me no pleasure.”  Studious Stickler  DeMarco goes to work every day in the same building where
his father once worked as an engineer at the Department of
Transportation. A slight man in wire-rimmed glasses who wears a
U.S. flag pin on his lapel, he’s seen by employees as a manager
who keeps close counsel with a small circle of advisers.  Colleagues and acquaintances describe him as self-effacing
and even-tempered, a stickler for rules and personal
responsibility who makes decisions based on careful study rather
than political conviction.  “Whatever he does, he’s going to be methodical,” said
Clifford Rossi, a business professor at the University of
 Maryland  who overlapped with DeMarco at the Treasury in the
1990s. “He’s not shoot-from-the-hip kind of guy whatsoever.
He’s not out there making stuff up as he goes.”  This meticulous approach carries through to DeMarco’s
hobbies, including fantasy football -- at least until recently.  “His team stinks now,” one of DeMarco’s nephews said in
an interview with the Notre Dame athletics website last year.
“He’s too busy trying to fix the housing mess.”  Republican Accolades  DeMarco’s analytical style, especially when it comes to
ensuring that Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac aid the housing market,
has won accolades from Republicans who like his taxpayer-first
approach. At the same time, his focus irks some Democrats, who
say he doesn’t care enough about families in danger of losing
their homes.  In one private meeting last year on  Capitol Hill , he earned
the displeasure of California Senator  Barbara Boxer , a Democrat
who has been pushing FHFA to expand aid to homeowners. According
to people familiar with what happened, Boxer asked DeMarco why
he hadn’t done more to help homeowners refinance their Fannie
Mae or Freddie Mac mortgages at lower interest rates.  DeMarco’s answer: “Because it would roil the markets.”  “He didn’t have any motivation, that I could see, to help
people,” Boxer said later in an interview with  National Public
Radio . She called it “the worst meeting I’ve had in my life.”  Ordinary Americans  DeMarco says his emphasis on protecting investors in
mortgage-backed securities has been mischaracterized as sympathy
for corporate interests when it’s really concern for ordinary
Americans.  “Mortgage-backed securities are critical elements in the
investments of our retired citizens that have bond portfolios
and are relying on that as a source of income,” he said.
“We’re thinking, ‘This isn’t some huge hedge fund that’s at
risk here. This is citizens across the country’.”  FHFA did make it easier this year for so-called underwater
borrowers who owe more than their homes are worth to refinance.
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac processed more than 600,000 loans
under the government’s Home Affordable Refinance Program in the
first eight months of this year, more than in all of 2011. Boxer
and other members of Congress are pushing the agency to make
still more changes to the program.  Like many homeowners, DeMarco has taken advantage of
record-low  interest rates  in recent years. In April 2010, he
refinanced into a 15-year loan on the house he and his wife
bought in 1992 in  Silver Spring , Maryland, for $230,000. The
average rate that month on 15-year mortgages was 4.4 percent.  Shrinking Agencies  While public focus is on spurring refinancings, DeMarco has
been taking steps to shrink Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac according
to a  blueprint  FHFA released earlier this year.  FHFA has raised the fees the companies charge investors for
guaranteeing payments on securities, a cost usually passed on to
borrowers in the form of higher interest rates. The agency is
poised to implement a new system next year that will raise
prices even more in states where the companies lose the most
money because the foreclosure process is slower.  FHFA is overseeing improvements in data collection to help
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac more quickly detect flaws in the
loans they purchase. And the agency is at work on a new system
for issuing securities that could serve as a precursor for new
kinds of mortgage securities, including some issued jointly by
the two companies or others in which private firms share risk
with the government, DeMarco said.  “These are important stepping stones to coming up with an
improved business model for the future,” he said.  Broad Impact  Such developments are incremental yet could have a broad
impact ranging from the cost of borrowing to altering state
foreclosure laws, Boltansky said.  “They represent meaningful shifts in how the housing-
finance system is structured,” he said.  Most of this work has gained little public attention.
Instead, DeMarco is best known for one controversial position:
His longstanding refusal to forgive some debt on loans backed by
Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. He says that would encourage some
struggling homeowners to stop paying their mortgages in the hope
of getting a break.  In February, Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  tried
to persuade DeMarco to change his mind by offering to pay as
much as two-thirds of the cost. At the end of July, DeMarco
released an analysis that concluded that taxpayers were likely
to lose money. The government-sponsored enterprises would
continue to be barred from reducing loan principal, he decided.  In the aftermath, calls for Obama to replace DeMarco came
from a diverse group that included members of Congress,  New York 
Times columnist  Paul Krugman , the United Steelworkers Union and
even the  Sierra Club , the pro-environment lobby.  Pink Slip  Activists emblazoned the words “Fire this Man” on posters
below an unflattering closeup of DeMarco, his eyebrows raised
and mouth open. And last month, they held a pizza party on the
front lawn of the home where he and his wife, Garland, an
accountant, raised their four children, delivering an oversize
pink slip to the mailbox.  “They’ve been questioning his motivations in a way that I
think is extremely unfair,” said Ted Gayer, co-director of the
Economic Studies program at the  Brookings Institution  in
Washington. “He’s this unassuming guy who just worked his way
through the bureaucracy and found himself here at the focal
point of a very intense debate.”  DeMarco’s reaction has been stoic, both publicly and,
acquaintances say, in private.  “I well understand that housing finance in general and
those two companies in particular attract a great deal of
political interest, and understandably so,” DeMarco said. “The
approach we take here is we try very hard to be apolitical about
it.”  Election Outcome  DeMarco’s future will remain unclear until after the Nov. 6
presidential election. Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  hasn’t
weighed in on the direction of FHFA.  If Obama wins, there’s a good chance DeMarco would remain
in his acting position. Obama would probably want to put his own
political appointee in DeMarco’s place, yet Republicans would
probably continue to block a nominee. Obama could name an FHFA
director during a congressional recess, though it’s unclear
whether he’s willing to face the political blowback.  DeMarco, meanwhile, has no plans to leave.  “My approach from the beginning has been, as long as I’ve
been asked to have this responsibility, to carry it out in the
best way I can,” he said. “I always envisioned myself as a
career official and I still am a career official.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  