-- Diamondback’s Newman Loses Bid to Split Insider Trial
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-10-24T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/diamondback-s-newman-loses-bid-to-split-insider-trial.html
Todd Newman , the former Diamondback
Capital Management LLC portfolio manager charged with  insider
trading , lost a bid to be tried separately from Level Global
Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson.  U.S. District Judge Richard Sullivan in  Manhattan , who is
presiding over the case, yesterday denied Newman’s request,
ruling that the two men will be tried together as scheduled
starting Oct. 29. Newman had argued that some e-mail evidence
his co-defendant planned to show the jury would be highly
prejudicial to him.  Prosecutors allege Chiasson, Newman and a group of
analysts, fund managers and insiders at technology companies
swapped illegal tips on  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Nvidia Corp. (NVDA)  as well as
the stocks of 11 more companies. Chiasson and Newman earned more
than $67 million in illicit profits, the U.S. said.  Both men, who were first arrested and charged in January,
pleaded not guilty yesterday to new charges filed against them
in August.  Chiasson sought to introduce as part of his defense several
hundred e-mails, including some from Jesse Tortora, a former
Diamondback analyst who has pleaded guilty and is cooperating
with the U.S. Newman’s lawyers asked that Chiasson be barred
from entering the e-mails as evidence if Sullivan didn’t grant
separate trials.  “Mr. Chiasson is proposing to put in evidence a very large
number of communications about various stocks and sources of
information that the government itself will not address in its
case,” Newman’s lawyers Stephen Fishbein and John Nathanson
argued in court papers.  Recorded Calls  Sullivan said yesterday that he will decide later on a
prosecution request to keep the jury from hearing recorded calls
of Chiasson allegedly receiving illegal tips about Dell, the
maker of personal computers, from John Kinnucan, founder of an
expert-networking firm, who has since pleaded guilty.  The judge denied a bid by both defendants to exclude
evidence about their compensation. Chiasson made $9.79 million
at Level Global in 2009, not including deferred compensation or
profit sharing, his lawyers said. Newman’s earnings weren’t
included in court papers filed by Nathanson.  Sullivan yesterday also declined to rule on a request by
defense lawyers to have the jury hear some recordings of
telephone calls made by Tortora at the behest of the  Federal
Bureau of Investigation .  ‘Hearsay’ Evidence  Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps yesterday urged
Sullivan to exclude the calls, saying they were “hearsay” and
contained incriminating and false statements that could confuse
jurors and prejudice the panel against the government’s case.  The recordings include a Dec. 1, 2010, call Tortora made
under the FBI’s direction to another co-defendant, Whittier
Trust Co. fund manager Danny Kuo, after federal agents raided
Diamondback and three other  hedge funds  a week earlier.  The U.S. said the purpose of the call was to have Tortora,
who was secretly cooperating with the FBI, elicit incriminating
statements from Kuo.  “Members of the jury may object to the notion that the FBI
is recording individuals without telling them, or that
cooperating witnesses engaged in deceptive behavior at the
direction of the FBI, even though these are entirely permissible
law enforcement techniques,” the prosecutors said in a filing
on Oct. 22.  ‘Undercover Ruse’  The calls “were an undercover ruse set up by the FBI,”
prosecutors said in the filing.  Sullivan said yesterday he was inclined to allow defense
lawyers to cross-examine Tortora about any statements he may
have made during the calls. The judge also said he was
“skeptical” about allowing the recordings to be played during
the trial.  Sullivan said he wouldn’t issue a final decision on the
recordings until the trial progresses.  Tortora pleaded guilty in 2011 to passing nonpublic
information to Newman and others. Kuo pleaded guilty in April,
admitting he used illegal tips to trade in Dell. Six of eight
people charged in the case have pleaded guilty and are
cooperating with prosecutors.  “What’s happening, man?” Tortora asked during the Dec. 1,
2010, call, according to a transcript prosecutors submitted with
their request.  “Dude, is your phone tapped?” Kuo replied.  ‘Being Investigated’  “Wait, is the phone tapped?” Tortora asked, adding, “Why
do you ask that?”  “Uh, because I saw on the news, on Bloomberg,” Kuo said,
“that you and Todd are, uh, being investigated.”  Kuo warned Tortora during the call about talking to the
U.S. and implicating others, including Newman.  “I’m not trying to say you should throw Todd under the
bus,” Kuo said. “Before throwing names out there, consider the
consequences.”  Kuo concluded the call with a final warning to Tortora
about making future calls from his personal telephones,
according to the transcript.  “I would seriously invest in some quarters, and start
calling from 7-Elevens,” Kuo said.  Newman’s lawyers argued yesterday that the recordings
should be heard, saying Tortora’s credibility “will be at
issue.” The recordings contain statements that indicate Tortora
“intends to blame Mr. Newman for anything he has done wrong,”
the lawyers said.  First Witness  Fishbein told Sullivan he expects Tortora will be the
government’s first witness.  During the December 2010 call, Kuo told Tortora: “The best
thing to do, for you, right now is to push every responsibility
up to Todd,” according to the transcript.  Kuo also questioned Tortora about why he called.  “To be honest with you, I don’t even know why I’m taking
your call,” Kuo said. “I have high suspicion that this phone
line could be tapped.”  Both men discussed possible defense strategies they could
raise when questioned by authorities. Tortora said on the call
that he had gone in to speak to the FBI and was questioned about
Newman. He didn’t tell Kuo he was already cooperating with the
government.  “You might consider hiring yourself a lawyer,” Kuo said,
citing news reports that Diamondback was one of four funds being
investigated by the U.S.  Horvath Plea  Greg Morvillo, a lawyer for Chiasson, and Nathanson and
Fishbein all declined to comment on the judge’s rulings.  Eight people have been charged in the case and six have
pleaded guilty to insider-trading charges.  Jon Horvath, a former technology analyst at a unit of
 Steven Cohen ’s $14 billion hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors LP,
pleaded guilty on Sept. 28 to passing nonpublic information to
his portfolio manager. Horvath, who had been charged with
Chiasson and Newman, is cooperating with the U.S.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney  Preet Bharara , whose office is
prosecuting the case, has pursued a wide-ranging probe of hedge
funds that has yielded 70 convictions either through guilty
pleas or at trial.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  