-- Doom Heralded at Hayman by Widening Trade Deficit: Japan Credit
-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-10-23T01:09:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/doom-heralded-at-hayman-by-widening-trade-deficit-japan-credit.html
Japan ’s worsening trade gap will
make it harder to service the world’s  largest debt , fulfilling
part of the doomsday scenario that Hayman Capital Management LP
is betting on.  The nation’s 10-year note yield may rise toward 10 percent
from the world’s third-lowest of 0.79 percent, while the yen
weakens, said Richard Howard, who oversees  Dallas , Texas-based
Hayman’s Japan-focused fund with J. Kyle Bass. That would
represent the developed world’s second-highest borrowing costs
after  Greece , and a surge to that level by the end of 2013 would
cause losses of 42 percent for investors purchasing the
securities now, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Data yesterday showed Japan had its biggest half-year  trade
deficit  on record. Hayman, which manages about $1 billion, made
$500 million by predicting the U.S. housing market collapse, and
Bass has said since at least 2010 that Japan’s $12 trillion  bond
market  is heading for a crash. So far, the debt has returned 3.1
percent in the past two years, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
data show, while yields touched nine-year lows.  “It all came down to this idea that there was an internal
self-funding mechanism in Japan, that essentially the Japanese
economy and interest-rate environment could exist separate to
the rest of the world,” Howard, 32, said in an Oct. 18
interview in  Singapore . “It wasn’t going to last forever, and
in fact it is rapidly approaching a turning point.”  Japan’s imports exceeded exports by 3.22 trillion yen ($40
billion) in the six months ended Sept. 30, the biggest trade
deficit for a fiscal half-year period, according to Ministry of
Finance  data  going back to 1979. The nation posted a shortfall
in September for a third-consecutive month.  Current Account  The country has public debt equivalent to 237 percent of
gross domestic product this year, the biggest debt-to-GDP ratio
globally, estimates by the International Monetary Fund show. The
ratio for the U.S. is 107 percent.  Ten-year Japanese government  bond yields  are less than half
that of similar-maturity Treasuries and reached 0.72 percent in
July, the least since June 2003. Japan’s current account, the
broadest measure of trade, has been in the black on an annual
basis since at least 1985, according to government  figures ,
helping the country finance a  budget deficit  domestically for
lower borrowing costs.  When Japan’s current account turns to deficit, “the
marketplace is going to realize that it requires international
capital, either repatriated Japanese capital or fresh new
international capital, to buy Japanese government debt in order
to keep funding the government,” said Howard. “That is the
beginning of a cycle to put upward pressure on yields.”  RBC Samurais  On a monthly level, Japan reported a record deficit in its
current account in January, showing the impact of rising energy
imports following last year’s record earthquake that triggered
the shuttering of nuclear plants.  Elsewhere in Japan’s credit markets, Kanagawa Prefecture
plans to sell 20 billion yen of 20-year bonds next month,
according to a statement yesterday by Daiwa Securities Group
Inc., which will manage the offering with Mizuho Financial Group
Inc.  Japanese municipal notes and the debt of government-
affiliated organizations have handed investors a 0.02 percent
loss this month as of yesterday, compared with a 0.08 percent
decline for sovereign securities, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data. Global  government bonds  have also lost 0.17
percent in the period, the data show.  Royal Bank of Canada registered to sell as much as 600
billion yen of Samurai notes, according to a filing yesterday
with Japan’s Ministry of Finance. Samurais are yen-denominated
notes issued in Japan by overseas borrowers.  Yen Effect  The yen strengthened against most of its 16 major peers in
the past six months as the euro region’s debt crisis boosted
demand for the currency as a refuge. It touched 80.01 per dollar
today, the weakest since July 6, before trading at 79.96 as of
9:51 a.m. in  Tokyo , compared with its record high of 75.35
reached Oct. 31.  The stronger yen makes Japanese products costlier overseas
and weighs on exports while encouraging domestic companies to
acquire assets abroad. Softbank Corp., the country’s No. 3
mobile-phone career, agreed this month to buy a 70 percent stake
in Kansas-based Sprint Nextel Corp. for $20.1 billion.  Proceeds from overseas investments have grown ninefold
since 1985 through last year, helping alleviate a slump in
exports. Japan had its first annual trade deficit last year in
at least 27 years, Ministry of Finance data showed.  Household Wealth  Slower growth and more than a decade of deflation have
prompted Japan’s banks to channel deposits into JGBs rather than
loans. Domestic investors account for 91 percent of the total
ownership of the nation’s debt, according to  data  from the  Bank
of Japan .  Japanese households held a total of 1,515 trillion yen of
assets at the end of June, more than half of which were  bank
deposits , central bank figures showed. That’s bigger than the
U.S.’s annual economic output in dollar terms and compares with
1,124 trillion yen of general Japanese government debt.  Standard & Poor’s  said in a report yesterday that Japan’s
deficits are likely to remain high for several years, and it
runs the risk of a credit downgrade if its “debt trajectory
were to remain on its current course.” S&P rates the sovereign
AA- with a “negative” outlook.  The IMF said in its  Fiscal Monitor  report released this
month that the Japanese government’s plan to double the 5
percent sales tax by 2015 won’t be sufficient to “put Japan’s
record-high debt ratio on a downward path.”  ‘Lot Higher’  A tumble in JGBs may happen in two steps, where a sell-off
pushes yields a couple hundred basis points higher, triggering
concerns about the government’s ability to refinance its debt,
said Howard. That could push yields “a lot, lot higher” toward
double digits, he said.  As to what may trigger the surge, “something very
interesting” is likely to happen within the next 18 months,
Howard said, declining to be more specific or to say how the
fund is executing its Japan strategy. The risk to Hayman’s
scenario is that concern about the rest of the world will
sustain demand for Japanese assets as a haven, he said.  So far, financial markets are signaling little concern that
Japan will fail to pay off its debts. The cost to insure JGBs
against nonpayment for five years has fallen 67 basis points
this year to 76 basis points yesterday, set for the biggest
annual slide in data going back to 2005, according to CMA, which
is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Investment Surplus  Tomoya Masanao, head of  portfolio management  for Japan at
Pacific Investment Management Co., said on Oct. 10 that the
nation’s debt is the “cleanest dirty shirt.” Pimco, which runs
the world’s biggest bond fund, has been adding to its holdings
of JGBs over the past two to three months, he said.  Ten-year JGB yields may hold in a range of 0.8 percent to 1
percent in the next 18 months, said Akio Kato, team leader for
Japanese debt in Tokyo at Kokusai Asset Management Co. That
compares with the five-year average of 1.2 percent.  “I don’t foresee a situation where the trade deficit
offsets the investment surplus, driving the current account into
the red,” said Kato, whose company runs Japan’s biggest mutual
fund with $42 billion in assets. “It’s reasonable to assume
that Japan’s bond market can still continue to retain investor
confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  