-- Dow Chemical to Eliminate 2,400 Jobs and Close Factories
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-24T04:40:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/dow-chemical-considering-cutting-2-400-jobs-5-of-workforce-1-.html
Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , the largest U.S.
chemical maker by sales, will cut about 2,400 jobs and shut 20
manufacturing plants to reduce annual costs by $500 million in
the face of slow global economic growth.  The facilities to be closed are in the U.S., Belgium, the
Netherlands,  Spain , the U.K. and Japan, the Midland, Michigan-
based company said in a statement released after it
inadvertently e-mailed a draft copy to  Bloomberg News  earlier
yesterday. An additional $500 million will be saved by cutting
 capital spending  and curtailing some investments, Dow said.  The job cuts, which amount to 5 percent of Dow’s global
workforce, follow DuPont Co.’s announcement yesterday that it’s
eliminating 1,500 jobs in part because of declining demand for
paint pigment and solar cells, and come even as Dow reported
third-quarter earnings that exceeded analysts’ estimates. Chief
Executive Officer  Andrew Liveris  said in July the company is
operating in the worst conditions since 2009.  “Chemicals are a very economically sensitive industry,”
Jake Dollarhide, CEO of Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Longbow Asset
Management, said in a phone interview. “Economic growth in 2012
has slowed to a trickle, and that has spooked a lot of people.”  The job cuts announced by the two largest U.S. chemical
makers are a reflection of a global economy still struggling to
fully recover from recession, said Dollarhide, who helps manage
$60 million including DuPont shares. DuPont is the largest U.S.
chemical company by market valuation.  Dow  fell  0.7 percent to $28.35 at 5:14 p.m. in  New York ,
after the close of regular trading. DuPont fell 9.1 percent to
$45.25 yesterday, the biggest decline since December 2008.  ‘Slow Growth’  “The reality is we are operating in a slow-growth
environment in the near-term,” Liveris said in the statement.
“While these actions are difficult, they demonstrate our
resolve to tightly manage operations -- particularly in  Europe  -
- and mitigate the impact of current market dynamics.”  Annual costs savings should be realized by the end of 2014,
Dow said. Fourth-quarter earnings will be reduced by 50 cents to
60 cents a share for expenses related to asset impairments,
write-offs, severance and other costs, the company said.  Dow’s third-quarter net income fell to $582 million, or 42
cents a share, from $900 million, or 69 cents, a year earlier,
as plastics production benefited from low-cost natural gas,
according to a statement dated today. That exceeded the 37-cent
average of 16 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue dropped
to $13.6 billion from $15.1 billion.  Job Reductions  The reductions won’t affect plans for new factories on the
U.S. Gulf Coast and in  Saudi Arabia , or opportunities in the
agriculture and electronics units, the company said.  The facilities to be shutdown over the next two years
include a polyethylene plastics plant in Belgium, a factory that
makes diesel-particulate filters for autos in  Michigan  and an
epoxy resins plant in Japan.  Also closing are factories in Spain, the U.K. and  Ohio ,
that are part of the formulated systems unit, which makes
polyurethane foams and epoxy products. A plant in the
Netherlands also will close.  Dow plans to write down the assets of Dow Kokam LLC, a
joint venture, because of low demand globally for  lithium-ion
batteries . It also will consolidate assets in its oxygenated
solvents business and shut a number of other small facilities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  