-- DuPont Earnings Miss Leads Pigment Makers Lower
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-10-23T20:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/dupont-leads-pigment-makers-lower-as-titanium-dioxide-sales-drop.html
DuPont Co. (DD) , the most valuable U.S.
chemical maker, led shares of titanium-dioxide makers down after
posting lower third-quarter sales of the white pigment and
saying demand won’t recover until the first half of next year.  DuPont, the world’s biggest producer of the paint pigment
known by its chemical formula TiO2, fell 9.1 percent to $45.25,
the biggest decline since December 2008.  Tronox Ltd. (TROX) , the largest TiO2 producer integrated to ore
production, dropped 6.7 percent to $20.99.  Kronos Worldwide Inc. (KRO) 
declined 4.3 percent to $13.89 and  Huntsman Corp. (HUN)  fell 6.1
percent to $14.73.  DuPont reported a drop in adjusted earnings to 32 cents a
share, trailing the 47-cent average  estimate  of 14 analysts, as
demand in the business that makes TiO2 dropped 18 percent. TiO2
sales will continue to decline through the fourth quarter as
producers work down excess inventories, the Wilmington,
Delaware-based company said.  “It’s going to be a tough end of the year, but we see
stabilization occurring in the first half of next year,”
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Ellen Kullman  said on a
conference call today.  DuPont’s goal of increasing earnings 12 percent a year may
be in jeopardy because more than 60 percent of the company’s
profit growth since 2009 has come from the unit that makes TiO2,
 Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors, said today in a note.  The company’s results suggest earnings may decline at
Tronox and in Huntsman’s pigment business, he said.  Demand Catalysts  Possible catalysts for improved demand include growth in
the U.S. housing market and resumption of infrastructure
spending in  China , Kullman said. China’s demand should improve
toward the end of the first quarter when the government’s
leadership change is complete and the Lunar New Year holiday has
ended, she said.  Titanium dioxide is mostly used to add opacity and
brightness to paints, and it is also added to plastics and
consumer goods such as toothpaste and the filling in Twinkies.
Demand grows at about the same pace as economic output, Kullman
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  