-- The Dangerously Agreeable Mitt Romney
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n   a n d   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-10-23T04:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/the-dangerously-agreeable-mitt-romney.html
This is part of a continuing dialogue between Margaret Carlson and  Ramesh
Ponnuru  about the 2012 campaign. Margaret:  Like the law professor he once was, President
 Barack Obama  toted up every incautious thing  Mitt Romney  had ever said at last
night's debate, although he held back until later bringing up Romney’s
tour abroad, during which he offended almost everyone he met. Obama  criticized
Romney's past statements on  Russia ,  Iraq ,  Afghanistan ,  Libya  and  Pakistan . How do you debate someone who wants to be  like you without saying so? If
there's one poll Romney's read, it's that Obama  gets high approval for his
handling of national security. Romney’s world view  was platitudinous -- let’s
avoid conflict wherever possible, let’s stand for our  principles, and, yes,
military action should be a last resort. Romney became as  severe a moderate as
he was a severe conservative during the primaries. He would  do much of what
Obama is doing only in a louder voice. He’s a better friend of   Israel , he
favors tighter sanctions on  Iran , he’d be tougher on   China  but not so much that
he wouldn’t increase  trade with China, and drones? Bring them on.  The Romney
Doctrine as  it emerged in this debate was a proto-Obama Doctrine. Both candidates turned to the economy  wherever possible. Romney ticked off
the five points (although I counted at  least six) that survived from his
earlier  59-point plan , and it’s likely to be as  memorable. At one point, Romney
was talking about fourth-grader test scores in  Massachusetts . If these debates prove one thing, it is  that moderators have limited
influence over two alpha males. But let’s  congratulate Bob Schieffer for his
successful attempts to do so: My favorite was  “Yes, we all love teachers” when
Romney enunciated his umpteenth aphorism  of the night. From the candidates, the
high point was Obama responding to  Romney’s criticism of cuts to the Navy.
Obama  patiently explained, as to a first grader, that yes, we have fewer ships
than in  1916. We also have fewer horses and bayonets. Obama could hardly get an argument going as  Romney set out to still his
rattling saber and leave the new wars to the neocons. It's hard to critique
someone’s who is  changing all the time. Obama was reduced to showing how
creating effective sanctions was painstaking work, not the simple thing Romney
was talking about, especially when you have to bring along unwilling partners
such as Russia and China. When Romney jumped on Obama for his  so-called
apology tour, Obama pointed out how, when he was a candidate for president, he
didn’t take donors along for the ride. Romney was in  such a kumbaya mode that
he praised Obama for getting  Osama bin Laden . Obama didn’t take  the compliment
lying down, reminding Romney that he said he wouldn’t move heaven  and earth to
get him and would have asked Pakistan for permission. Before you knew it our worldwide tour was  over, and we were back in
 Wisconsin  and lo and behold   Michigan . Romney thinks he can rewrite his "Let
 Detroit  Go Bankrupt” op-ed if he just  pulls out his No. 2 pencil again. He was
so riled up he did his “I’m still  speaking” when Obama tried to point out there
was no private investment willing to help  get the auto companies out of
bankruptcy. In his close, Obama reprised his  convention speech, and Romney loaded on the
innocuous homilies: He wants peace, and to promote principles of peace to make
sure  the future is more peaceful and prosperous. As do we all. Goodnight Bob, goodnight Ramesh. This is how debate season
ends: not with a bang but a whimper. ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  her on Twitter.) Ramesh:  All year long, inevitability has been the theme of
the Obama campaign. Not last night. The polls and pundits may disagree among
themselves, but both candidates at the debate were acting as though Romney is in
the lead. Obama launched attack after attack on Romney to bring him back down to
his level. Romney generally refused to engage in the hope of looking
presidential. Each time Romney was asked a question, he went with the answer
that made him look thoughtful and grown-up rather than the one that would score
the most points against Obama. Romney obviously worried that coming across as a warmonger would threaten his
lead, too. Like you, Margaret, I was struck by how un-neoconservative this
debate was. Romney's twin imperatives -- not getting into a brawl with Obama,
not looking too aggressive on foreign policy -- led him to agree with the
president again and again. Romney’s tactic clearly frustrated Obama. Did his
visible frustration register with voters as a justified response to Romney’s
slipperiness, or as weakness? Obama didn’t look bored and detached, as in the
first debate. I’m not sure fixing Romney with the death stare was an
improvement. Best line for Romney: His repeated jibe that Obama’s attacks on him don’t add
up to an agenda for the country. I agree with you, Margaret, that Obama scored a
direct hit against Romney when he said that the Republican's foreign policy
amounts to doing what the president has done, only louder. In addition to agreeing about Iran and Afghanistan, both candidates seemed to
agree that voters don’t care about foreign policy. Both used every opportunity
to move the debate back to domestic themes: We heard more about teachers than
about  Latin America . Obama repeated  John Kerry ’s 2004 line about the need for
“nation-building here at home” several times. The line is premised on an
accurate read of the public mood, which is why even Obama’s effective attacks on
Romney didn’t change the campaign’s course. Advantage Romney. (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist.  Follow  him on Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View at  the Ticker .