-- The Least Enlightening Debate
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-23T09:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/the-least-enlightening-debate.html
Someone apparently forgot to tell
 Mitt Romney  about last night’s foreign-policy debate. He didn’t
come to debate, and he wasn’t eager to talk about foreign
policy.  Instead, the Republican presidential nominee strained to
identify areas of agreement with U.S. President  Barack Obama  on
 Afghanistan ,  Egypt , Iran,  Iraq , Libya,  Syria , and even  China .
(That left five of the seven continents -- most of them
populated, and at least one in  dire crisis  --  barely mentioned .)
Romney also took every chance he could to turn the discussion
back to the  U.S. economy .  This made the campaign’s final debate its most tedious and
least enlightening. Unlike their first two meetings, this debate
featured no flashes of anger and will cause no  partisan
freakouts . Bland generalities were the order of the night.  To say that Obama got the better of Romney on substance,
and he did, is almost beside the point. Obama repeatedly called
for more specifics and exposed Romney’s inexperience; he was
especially good on Romney’s  empty talking points  on Pentagon
spending. The question is which Romney Obama got the better of.  In his first answer of the night, Obama castigated Romney
for his “wrong and reckless” views. He may have been referring
to the Romney of the Republican primaries, or the Romney of the
Republican convention, or even the Romney who issued a series of
 increasingly  bellicose  news releases  in the hours leading up to
the debate. That Romney was mostly absent last night. “I want to
see growing peace in this country,” he said, in delivery as much
as sentiment sounding more like the 41st president than the
43rd.  This (latent? convenient? both?) moderation  is welcome . Yet
there are nagging concerns. One, of course, is how much  to trust 
what Romney is saying. As Obama said last night, Romney has been
“all over the map” on the  Middle East  and other topics. Another
is to figure out exactly what Romney is saying.  In his discussion of Pakistan, for example, he sounded as
if he was reading  a Wikipedia entry . Asked whether the U.S.
should “divorce” Pakistan because of its truculence in the fight
against terrorists, Romney said -- rightly -- no. His
explanation, however, was not his finest moment. Well, he said, 
Pakistan has 100 nuclear warheads. It has a strong military, and
there are a lot of terrorists there. It’s in an important part
of the world. We need to help build Pakistani civil society.
Pakistan has 100 nuclear warheads.  Moderation is defined by substance and tone. If he is going
to convincingly complete the transition from severely
conservative to agreeably moderate, Romney needs to get better
at explaining himself. Last night, Romney’s summary of his
foreign policy was: same as Obama’s -- except better.  After Pakistan and a brief detour to China, it was on to
Detroit. Detroit, according to the latest tracking polls, is
part of the U.S. Still, it has a valid place in a foreign-policy
debate; the U.S. auto industry is global. Unfortunately, the
discussion focused less on what either man would do improve the
industry’s competitiveness than on what Romney wrote for the op-
ed page of the  New York  Times four years ago. (Like most such
headlines, this one -- “ Let Detroit Go Bankrupt ” -- captured its
gist if not its nuances.)  There is a case to be made -- and no less than the
president of the  Council on Foreign Relations  has made it --
that a foreign-policy debate is  an anachronism ; the line between
national and international issues is eroding. It’s also clear,
this year especially, that the candidates want to talk about
nothing more than their plans to improve the economy. Last
night’s debate was mostly a missed opportunity to show where and
how the two themes intersect.  In that respect, it was a disappointing finale to a series
of debates that will be remembered for their substance and
drama. Now all that’s left on the civic calendar is Election Day
itself. If  current polls  are any indication, that will be plenty
dramatic, too.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Turkey’s aggressive crackdown 
on press freedom; William Pesek on what the U.S. can learn from
 Japan’s debt management ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on why  Barack Obama
doesn’t deserve another term ; Betsey Stevenson and  Justin
Wolfers  on  Mitt Romney and the modern family ;  Michael Feroli  on
why the Fed should  tie interest rates to the unemployment rate ;
Richard Vedder on five reasons  college enrollments may be
dropping .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 