-- Tea Party Favorites Run in Costliest House Races: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-10-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/tea-party-favorites-run-in-costliest-house-races-bgov-barometer.html
Tea Party favorites  Allen West  of
Florida and  Michele Bachmann  of Minnesota are running for re-
election in this year’s most expensive contests for the U.S.
House of Representatives.  The BGOV Barometer shows Republican West and Democratic
challenger Patrick Murphy have spent $14.4 million through Sept.
30, more than in any other contested congressional district in
the country, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.
The second-costliest House race, at $11.3 million, is between
Bachmann and Democrat Jim Graves, chief executive officer of a
Minneapolis-based hotel and restaurant management company.  Both West and Bachmann, who unsuccessfully sought her
party’s presidential nomination, receive financial backing from
supporters of the Tea Party movement, which favors lower taxes
and cuts in some government spending.  “They’ve been able to galvanize such widespread support
because they’ve made this a national message campaign more than
a House campaign,” said  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of
the Washington-based Center for Responsive Politics, which
tracks campaign contributions and spending.  The most expensive Senate race this year is in
Massachusetts, where Republican incumbent  Scott Brown  is trying
to win a full six-year term and  Elizabeth Warren , his Democratic
opponent, is seeking to reclaim  Edward Kennedy ’s old seat for
her party.  Competitive Races  Competitive races -- political analyst  Charlie Cook  rates
the contests involving both Brown and West as “toss-ups” --are
going to attract the most money, Democratic consultant Glenn Totten said. West alone has raised $15 million, about half in
donations of $200 or less.  “You’re selling the concept that the people are going to
write the checks are the ones who will actually make the
difference in the race,” Totten said. “You can make a
plausible case that with your funding, we can win this race.”  Third on the House list the contest between two Democratic
incumbents in California, Howard Berman and  Brad Sherman , who
were put into a single House district when congressional
district lines were redrawn following the 2010 census. Between
them they have spent $9.1 million.  Boehner Giving  The individual candidate who has spent the most, House
Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio, has no serious challenge for re-
election. Rather, he has contributed $12 million to other
Republican candidates and committees in an effort to keep his
party’s majority in the House. Boehner has raised $21 million
during this election and spent $20 million.  The most expensive Senate race pits Brown against Warren, a
Harvard University law professor who served as an adviser to
President Barack Obama and helped set up the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau created by the 2010 financial regulation law.
They’ve spent $37.3 million through Sept. 30.  A Democratic victory in the commonwealth could make it
easier for the party to hold the Senate in a year when
Republicans need to pick up only four seats to gain the
majority, or three if former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney
wins the White House.  In Ohio, Senator  Sherrod Brown , the Democratic incumbent,
and state Treasurer Josh Mandel have spent $26 million between
them, the second most-expensive Senate race. Another incumbent
Democrat, Bob Casey Jr. in Pennsylvania, faces businessman  Tom
Smith , the Republican nominee, in a race that has cost $19.8
million so far. Smith has pumped $17 million of his own money
into the campaign.  All that money is a reflection of the fact that both
candidates in each race have a chance to win on Nov. 6.  “All people want to back winners,” Totten said. “When
people give money to a political race, they are expecting
they’re going to be looking at a newspaper headline saying their
candidate won.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in  Washington  at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 