-- EBay Teams Up With FedEx on Shipping to Compete With Amazon
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-10-23T22:45:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/ebay-joins-with-fedex-on-shipping-to-compete-with-amazon.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , owner of the world’s
largest online marketplace, is joining with  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  to offer
shipping discounts and label printing as the company competes
with  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s vast delivery network.  EBay merchants will be able to print FedEx labels at home
and ship at a discount of as much as 37 percent, said Carl Gish,
EBay’s vice president of shipping. The  San Jose , California-
based company is also adding tracking and duty estimates to
international orders through a partnership with  Pitney Bowes
Inc. (PBI) , he said.  The FedEx accord comes in time for the holiday season and
builds on other upgrades from the e-commerce company such as
EBay Now, a same-day delivery service that helps local stores
get goods to consumers. Online retailers are chasing Amazon’s
Prime program, which costs $79 a year and offers free two-day
delivery, making fast shipping the industry standard.  “We’ve been asking sellers to meet buyer expectations of
free shipping and tracking,” Gish said in an interview. “It’s
something our sellers have been asking for for a while, given
that we have USPS and UPS. FedEx, as a major player in that
space, is clearly a great partner for both our buyers and
sellers.”  The Internet retailer is rolling out the program in the
coming months. EBay already lets sellers print labels for
packages sent via the U.S. Postal Service and  United Parcel
Service Inc. (UPS)  Sellers could choose FedEx as a shipping option
before now, though they had to go to a physical store to print
labels, which meant the service often wasn’t used, Gish said.
Merchants will still have to travel to a FedEx store to mail the
final product, according to Johnna Hoff, an EBay spokeswoman.  Free Shipping  EBay merchants have increasingly added free shipping for
buyers, with 50 percent of transactions including the option in
the third quarter, compared with 39 percent in the same period
last year.  More than 40 percent of EBay sellers in the U.S. use its
label-printing services already, Hoff said. While Amazon offers
some shipping services, EBay doesn’t pay for any of its sellers’
shipping. The discount FedEx is offering will be offset by the
rise in merchants choosing it as a carrier, Gish said.  “One of the things EBay brings to our partners is scale,”
he said. “We’re able to leverage that scale as we negotiate.
FedEx is able to do things with us that they wouldn’t be able to
do with other, smaller companies.”  EBay is also teaming up with Pitney Bowes, a  Stamford ,
Connecticut-based maker of postage meters and machines, to make
international shipping less onerous. Buyers will be able to
estimate duties and taxes in real time, Gish said. Sellers can
ship their goods to a U.S. Pitney Bowes location, which will
handle the rest of the package processing, including tracking,
and send the cargo abroad, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  