-- ECB Would Gain Power Over Banker Bonuses in Oversight Plan
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-10-23T17:00:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/ecb-would-gain-explicit-power-over-banker-pay-in-oversight-plan.html
The  European Central Bank  would get
power to oversee bankers’ compensation under draft legislative
proposals to establish the ECB as a bank supervisor.  The Frankfurt-based institution would get the power to
monitor risk management, capital standards and “remuneration
policies and practices,” according to the draft dated today.
The blueprint also says the ECB would be able to carry out
stress tests and “where appropriate publish the results.”  EU banking supervisors would send decisions to the ECB’s
Governing Council for an up-or-down vote under the new draft,
which builds on previous efforts to clarify how participating
non-euro nations could take part in bank oversight decision. The
draft says supervisory board leaders would not have to be
Governing Council members and it lays out conditions in which
the central bank’s top panel could exercise an oversight veto.  European Union officials will discuss the proposal this
week as they push to design a framework by the end of the year
for a euro-area bank supervisor. Leaders last week renewed their
commitment to give the ECB oversight powers over all banks in
the 17-nation currency union as well as in other nations that
choose to participate.  Bank Bailouts  Joint supervision is the cornerstone of the EU’s plan to
create a banking union as a weapon against the debt and
financial crisis headed for its fourth year. Once the ECB takes
the role, which could happen as soon as Jan. 1, the euro area
will be able to consider allowing direct bank bailouts from its
500 billion-euro ($648 billion) firewall fund.  While it would be mandatory for euro-area nations to place
their banks under ECB supervision, EU states outside the bloc
could voluntarily sign-up to the plan.  The EU is simultaneously trying to agree on how it will
implement the so-called Basel III capital accords, a global pact
on risk management. Banker bonuses have become a touchstone in
that effort, as EU lawmakers press for explicit bonus curbs as a
condition of allowing capital rules to proceed.  Today’s draft offers details on which banks the ECB would
supervise day-to-day and which tasks would stay with national
supervisors. It reiterates that the ECB will have access to
information concerning all banks in the currency zone and could
assume regulatory control of any bank in participating nations
“at any moment” if conditions warrant.  Cyprus Draft  Banks that are systemically important or have already
received European bailouts would be supervised directly by the
central bank, says the draft legislation, prepared by Cyprus in
its role holding the EU’s rotating presidency. National
regulators would “carry out regular operational tasks” for all
other banks, the draft says.  National regulators would have explicit rights to accompany
the ECB on bank inspections, the draft says.  The revised plan seeks to address non-euro-area nations’
concerns that they would lack a voice in the ECB because they
can’t join the central bank’s governing council.  Under the proposals, decisions taken by the ECB’s
supervisory board would be automatically adopted unless rejected
by the governing council within a pre-agreed deadline.  The supervisory board, in which participating non-euro-area
nations would have a seat, would also carry out “full
preparatory” work on oversight decisions.  The draft also calls for a strict division of staff in the
ECB working between those working on monetary policy and those
handling oversight tasks.  Bankers are facing a backlash from European Parliament
lawmakers determined to cut variable pay as part of a quest to
reshape lenders as utilities rather than money-making machines.  Fixed Pay  The assembly has called for a ban on bonuses that exceed
fixed pay, arguing that existing curbs have failed to prevent
bankers from taking excessive risks or being rewarded for
failure.  The proposed ban has become a sticking point between
governments and lawmakers in talks over an overhaul of the
bloc’s financial regulation which governments have said should
take effect at the same time at the ECB’s oversight powers.  In other changes, the draft lays out timing guidelines for
non-euro nations to enter or leave the supervisory system.  The revised plans include a three-year ban on nations that
leave the system from rejoining.  The text also adjusts draft voting rules for the European
Banking Authority, which drafts financial rules across the 27-
nation EU and has some power to settle disputes between
regulators.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  