-- EDF Denies U.K. Nuclear Deal to Be Sealed in ‘Smoke-Filled Room’
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-10-23T16:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/edf-affirms-year-end-u-k-nuclear-decision-needs-compeling-case.html
Electricite de France SA  rejected
criticism that its one-to-one talks with the U.K. over the deal
it’ll get to build nuclear plants in the country means officials
setting rates in a “smoke-filled room” without open scrutiny.  “It’s not a dark and smoke-filled room,” Chief Executive
Officer Vincent de Rivaz told British lawmakers today in London.
“Smoking is forbidden and the light is on. We’re in the process
of cost discovery, which will be totally transparent. We know
that it has to be auditable, that we need to face the scrutiny
of parliament and the public, and we are ready for that.”  EDF is the main company negotiating with the government on
a strike, or guaranteed, price for atomic power after utilities
 SSE Plc (SSE) ,  RWE AG (RWE)  and EON AG gave up building nuclear plants from
September 2011. Bilateral talks between the French supplier and
the U.K. have been criticized by SSE Chief Executive Officer Ian Marchant as taking place over “champagne and croissants.”  Energy Secretary  Ed Davey  will set final proposals before
lawmakers next month to overhaul the market including plans for
so-called contracts for difference guaranteeing power prices. A
law, published in draft form in May, plans to curb the risk of
building reactors and renewable-energy projects as Britain seeks
about 110 billion pounds ($175 billion) of investment for grid
upgrades and to replace aging power stations by 2020.  EDF,  Europe ’s biggest utility,  GDF Suez SA (GSZ)  and Iberdrola SA
of Spain gave evidence to parliament’s Energy and Climate Change
Committee as U.K. atomic plans were set back this month by Areva
SA’s decision to halt a bid for Britain’s Horizon atomic venture
with China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co. The venture, with
state backing to build plants, is being sold by RWE and EON.  ‘Optimal Solution’  De Rivaz said the U.K. offered the “optimal solution” to
fund nuclear and affirmed the company’s plans to finish a final
investment decision on its Hinkley Point project in Somerset by
the year-end. EDF won’t expose consumers to risks in building
the reactor, he said. “We’re not asking consumers to take the
construction risks,” the CEO said. “Never have we been asked
for the construction risk, for instance, to be taken within the
contracts for difference by the consumers. It is not our plan.”  The company may look later at a 40 billion-pound Treasury
 loan-guarantee  program announced by Chancellor of the Exchequer
George Osborne in July to spur spending on U.K. infrastructure
projects and exports, Humphrey Cadoux-Hudson, managing director
for EDF’s nuclear new build, said at the same hearing.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in  London  at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  