-- Egypt Constitution Panel Case Referred to Supreme Court
-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-10-23T10:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/egypt-constitution-panel-case-referred-to-supreme-court-1-.html
An Egyptian administrative court
referred to the Supreme  Constitutional Court  a case that sought
the dissolution of the panel charged with drafting the country’s
new charter.  The decision, announced in court today by Judge Nazih
Tanagho, adds another obstacle to  Egypt ’s path to democracy.
Islamists and secular groups are divided about the makeup of the
country’s new constitution and the drafting body has already
been dissolved once. Parliamentary elections are due to be held
after the charter is approved in a referendum.  Today’s decision “will increase uncertainty over the path
of Egypt’s transition from here on,” Said Hirsh, Mideast
economist with  Capital Economics , said by phone. “If you couple
that with problems around the parliament, then this is just more
uncertainty from the perspective of anybody looking at Egypt as
a potential investment.”  An administrative court on April 10 ordered the first
committee selected after the ouster of  Hosni Mubarak  to suspend
its work. A new 100-member panel was formed in June. Following
his election in the same month, Egypt’s new Islamist president,
Mohamed Mursi, claimed the right to appoint a new constituent
assembly if it is dissolved for a second time.  The panel has said it would vote on a draft document by
mid-November before it goes before a national referendum.
Divisions have been rife in the committee amid arguments over
the role of Shariah, or Islamic law, as the basis of
legislation.  The Muslim Brotherhood has said attempts to dissolve the
committee a second time are likely to fail. “The constitution
will be already finalized and handed to the presidency for a
popular referendum before the supreme constitutional court
reaches a ruling’, Mahmoud Ghozlan, a spokesman for the group,
said in a phone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  