-- Egyptians Hunt Cheap Fuel as Mursi Seeks to End Shortage
-- B y   N a d i n e   M a r r o u s h i   a n d   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-10-24T14:48:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/egypt-s-consumers-hunt-cheap-fuel-as-mursi-seeks-to-end-shortage.html
The women squeezed together in an
open truck as it left a Cairo warehouse, each clinging to a
canister of subsidized cooking gas. Dozens more waited in line.  For many Egyptians it’s becoming increasingly difficult to
buy a basic necessity of daily life. While officially subsidized
butane gas should be available at 2.5 pounds ($0.41) a canister,
it’s hard to find. The black market price can be about 30 times
as much.  “There is a crisis on the streets,” said Sayyed
Mohammady, 50, as he waited to buy. Also standing in line are
fuel producers: Dana Petroleum Plc, the U.K.-based natural gas
company, said last month that it’s owed tens of millions of
dollars in arrears.  Angry consumers and unhappy suppliers give momentum to a
growing consensus that Egypt, with the  Middle East ’s biggest
 budget deficit , can no longer afford its subsidy system. That
poses a dilemma for President Mohamed Mursi, the country’s first
popularly elected leader, who has said change is needed, yet
needs to avoid stoking the unrest that deterred predecessors
like the deposed  Hosni Mubarak .  Energy subsidies have become an economic issue as the costs
have spiraled to consume 20 percent of  government spending  in
the year to June.  IMF Loan  “If the subsidy situation is not dealt with in a dramatic
fashion, the budget deficit will be completely unsustainable,”
Hisham El-Khazindar, co-founder and managing director of  Citadel
Capital SAE (CCAP) , told a conference in Dubai on Oct. 15. The Cairo-
based private equity firm has $9.5 billion in investments and is
building a refinery in Egypt. “Liberalizing the energy sector
is a key issue,” he said.  The government says it’s planning change as it seeks to
convince the  International Monetary Fund  to shore up public
finances with a $4.8 billion loan. That may mean selling lower
volumes of subsidized cooking gas and raising prices for premium
fuels, which are cheaper in Egypt, a fuel importer, than in
 Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries  members like
 Nigeria , the U.A.E. and  Iran . Small-scale cuts may start in this
fiscal year,  Fitch Ratings  said this month.  Mursi, an Islamist elected in June, is treading carefully,
emphasizing energy-related corruption to mobilize support for
his fuel-price plans. He told an Oct. 6 Cairo rally that
authorities seized 23 million tons of black-market diesel in
August and September alone.  Fuel Ration  The government may ration families to two cooking-gas
canisters a month, the independent Al-Shorouk newspaper reported
Oct. 14, citing Oil Minister Osama Kamal. Those wanting more
would pay a “partially subsidized rate,” he said.  The proposed limit is already unsettling Mohammady and
others waiting in line.  “We’re a family of five and we use the gas for baking and
water,” said Manal Fathalla, 29. Those who need the gas most
“will have to buy the rest from the free market,” paying 70
pounds a canister, said Essam Hosny, 42.  Their skepticism of government promises that the poor will
be protected is a legacy of decades of mistrust. Since change
could cost Mursi’s Muslim Brotherhood votes in parliamentary
elections, his hand may be tied until after the election, said
Amr Adly of the Egyptian Initiative for Personal Rights, a
Cairo-based non-governmental organization. The vote is due after
a referendum on a new constitution, which is still being
drafted.  ‘Take Ownership’  “It needs a political decision and someone to take
ownership of the political cost,” Adly said during a public
debate on the subject last week. He urged Mursi to follow the
examples of Iran and  Indonesia  on how to overhaul energy
subsidies.  Iran spent two years on public debates and awareness
campaigns before it started to eliminate as much as $60 billion
in subsidies, to ensure the cuts wouldn’t spark unrest. The
Islamic republic won rare  praise from the IMF  for its “long and
careful preparations to ensure the success of the reform and its
support by the public.”  Egypt  may need to act more quickly, as declining tourism
revenue and foreign-currency inflows leave the government
struggling to pay for fuel imports.  Foreign reserves  shrank by
more than half after the revolt.  Citadel is building a $3.7 billion refinery, which El-
Khazindar said will save the cost of fuel transport and import
insurance. The company’s shares rose by 2.2% to 4.2 Egyptian
pounds at the close of trading in Cairo today. Citadel’s shares
are up 61 percent for the year, beating the Egyptian bourse’s
EGX30 Benchmark Index, which gained 57 percent in the same
period.  Domestic Gas  The government, which is seeking to capitalize on  Africa ’s
third-largest reserves of natural gas, has also hired companies
including Citadel’s Taqa Arabia unit to switch households and
businesses from heavy fuels to natural gas. Taqa Arabia is
converting close to 100,000 homes a year to natural gas, Stephen
Murphy, a managing director at Citadel, said in an interview in
Dubai.  In the meantime, Alaa Demerdash, a 45 year-old employee of
state-run  Telecom Egypt (ETEL) , will keep making trips to buy
subsidized gas.  “I came here because I don’t have enough money to buy” on
the black market, the father-of-three said. “I have to spend
money on schooling and food. Prices have gone up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadine Marroushi in Cairo at 
 nmarroushi@bloomberg.net ;
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  