-- Elizabeth Warren and Scott Brown Get Personal
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-10-23T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/elizabeth-warren-and-scott-brown-get-personal.html
The most interesting and (probably)
most expensive Senate race in the U.S. will tell us how much a
Republican can shape-shift and win over a liberal electorate.  Just behind  Mitt Romney , who defines the genre of the
malleable politician, is Senator Scott Brown of  Massachusetts .
In 2010, Brown beat a particularly weak Democrat in a special
election to replace Ted Kennedy. He is now facing a particularly
strong one in Elizabeth Warren, who represented the ordinary Joe
as a member of the panel overseeing the bank bailouts after the
2008 financial crisis.  The underlying theme of this senatorial campaign is the
candidates’ humble beginnings. Warren is a populist from another
era, the daughter of a janitor. She worked her way through law
school dandling a child on her knee and says she believes that
most of what has happened in  Washington  in the past few years
has favored those who broke the economy, not those who were
broken by it. It caused her to be a pariah in her party and
deprived her of the opportunity to be the first director of the
 Consumer Financial Protection Bureau , which she created.  Her unpopularity in Washington made her the ideal candidate
to take on the bland, play-it-safe Brown. She’s a throwback to a
time when candidates ran on ideas, not for an office. Before she
officially declared her candidacy, Warren gave her theory of
life in a  few sentences : “There is nobody in this country who
got rich on his own,” she said. “You built a factory and it
turned into something terrific, or a great idea? God bless. Keep
a big hunk of it. But part of the underlying social contract is
you take a hunk of that and pay forward for the next kid who
comes along.”  Posing Nude  Brown, with his pickup truck and aw-shucks personality, has
his own hard-luck story with a pitch to the middle class: His
parents divorced when he was just 1 year old, and he shuttled
among relatives after. He was the victim of abuse by a
stepfather and a camp counselor. He worked his way through
school, at one point posing nude (though strategically) for
Cosmopolitan.  Aside from providing Brown with money for law school, the
photos provided one of the signature exchanges of the campaign:
Warren told a questioner at a Democratic primary debate that she
“kept my clothes on” working as a waitress to pay her way
through school. “Thank God,” Brown said when asked the next day
to respond to her comment.  Brown has carefully played his Senate hand to win re-
election, voting with his party only 56 percent of the time.
Brown voted for the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, which
created Warren’s CFPB, only afterward working to water it down.
He ignores social matters, saying the issues of abortion rights
and same-sex marriage are “settled.”  That’s one reason that last week, with  polls within  the
margin of error, the race returned to the personal. In
September, Brown released a campaign ad attacking Warren for
listing herself as American Indian (“Fauxcahontas” became a
Twitter hashtag) in a Harvard faculty directory. To Warren’s
supporters, she was simply repeating family lore, the usual
embroidering of ancestral roots. To Brown’s supporters, she was
trying to get special treatment as a minority -- and win the
duel over who had the harder upbringing.  Then, earlier this month, Brown made his own questionable
claim on a far more tender subject. At a debate  Brown said  he
“served in  Afghanistan .” True enough: In the summer of 2011,
Brown took his two weeks of National Guard training in
Afghanistan. To thousands of young men and women in the active
military, however, serving in Afghanistan means risking life and
limb, not meeting with generals, ambassadors and other
officials. Brown’s calculations even extended so far as
capturing his emotional return from war, complete with wife
embracing her long lost hero dressed in camouflage, for a TV ad.  Defending Valor  His act of cloaking himself in the sacrifice and glory of
war is all the more curious given that he  introduced  the Stolen
Valor Act to penalize the self-aggrandizing “faux-fighters” who
would put themselves in the company of those who had truly
served their country.  Just as Brown wasn’t at the center of the war, he wasn’t at
the center of the passage of Dodd-Frank. But as he would have
it, “It never would have passed if I wasn’t the deciding vote on 
financial reform.”  Nor would it have been  watered down . Brown’s compelling
personal story aside, it may take more than posing as a soldier
and driving a pickup to be seen as the Protector of the Little
Guy -- especially when you’re up against the Woman Who Stood Up
to Wall Street.  (Margaret Carlson is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the drug shortage behind the
meningitis outbreak  and on why  Palestinians should pursue
elections before statehood ; Clive Crook on what  Obama could
learn from Romney  about tacking to the center; Peter Orszag on
how states have avoided  pension funding problems ; Cass R.
Sunstein on  imagining yourself in 20 years ; Ronen Bergman on
 Hezbollah’s preparations for war .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 