-- Emaar Profit Misses Estimates as Developer’s Revenue Declines
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-10-23T11:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/emaar-profit-misses-estimates-as-developer-s-revenue-declines.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , Dubai’s
biggest developer by market value, said third-quarter earnings
dropped 4.7 percent, missing analysts’ estimates, after revenue
declined.  Net income fell to 387 million dirhams ($105 million), or 6
fils a share,  from  406 million dirhams, or 7 fils, a year
earlier, the Dubai-based company said in a statement today.
Analysts forecast earnings of 476 million dirhams, the  average  
of six estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “While real estate revenue was much weaker than we
expected, the quarterly performance is not an immediate
indicator of the current market conditions and depends on
Emaar’s delivery schedules in all of its territories,” Jan Pawel Hasman, an analyst at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE in Cairo,
said in an e-mail today. Hasman has a buy rating on the stock.  Emaar, the  builder  of the world’s tallest tower in Dubai,
is expanding across the Middle East as an oversupply of
properties in Dubai hurts the company’s home market. Emaar’s
malls and hotels have helped cushion the effect of the region’s
real estate crisis by providing stable revenue.  The earnings were published after the close of trading in
Dubai. Shares of Emaar have risen 46 percent this year, compared
with a 22 percent increase for the  Dubai Financial Market
General Index. (DFMGI)   Revenue declined 12 percent to 1.64 billion dirhams in the
third quarter, Emaar said. Real estate revenue dropped 28
percent to 798 million dirhams compared with 1.1 billion dirhams
in the same period last year, EFG’s Hasman said.  Emaar plans to build a 200-room hotel with 542 serviced
apartments near its Burj Khalifa skyscraper in Dubai as lodging
and shopping centers contribute a growing proportion of revenue.
The company also bought a plot in Dubailand from Dubai
Properties Group to build a mixed-use development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 