-- Emerging ETF Sinks Most Since July on Declining Earnings
-- B y   M a r i a   L e v i t o v   a n d   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2012-10-23T21:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/emerging-stocks-drop-as-company-earnings-disappoint.html
The  exchange-traded fund  tracking
emerging-market shares slipped the most since July in New York
and stocks slumped on concern the global slowdown is crimping
company earnings and as commodities erased this year’s gains.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index ETF, which tracks
companies including  Korea ’s Posco and Moscow-based OAO Gazprom,
sank 2.1 percent to $41.04 at the close of trading in New York,
the biggest one-day slide since July 23. The  MSCI Emerging
Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 1 percent to 996.82, the steepest drop since
Oct. 8.  About 63 percent of companies in the MSCI gauge that
reported quarterly  earnings  have trailed analyst estimates,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Posco, the third-
biggest Asian steelmaker by output, fell to the lowest level
since March 2009 after reporting earnings for the third quarter
that missed estimates and cutting its 2012 sales forecast for
the third time this year.  Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) , Latin
America’s largest bank by market value, slipped to the lowest
since July as profit dropped in the third quarter.  “Concerns about weaker earnings keep the markets down
today,” Maarten-Jan Bakkum, an emerging-market strategist at
ING Investment Management in The Hague, said by e-mail. There
are questions about “the longer-term growth outlook for  China ,
the earnings momentum and a deteriorated macro policy mix in
several key emerging economies,” he said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index tracking prices for 24
commodities sank for a third day, losing 1.4 percent to 639.30,
while crude oil for December delivery declined $1.98 to $86.67 a
barrel in New York, the lowest settlement since July 12.  Russia 
is the world’s largest energy exporter, while metals and other
commodities account for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports.  Rising Volatility  The Chicago Board Options Exchange  Emerging Markets  ETF
Volatility Index, a  measure  of options prices on the fund and
expectations of price swings, gained 10 percent.  Brazil ’s Bovespa Index slipped 1.7 percent in Sao Paulo,
while Russia’s Micex Index sank 1.3 percent, the most in four
weeks. Benchmark gauges in  Poland  and the Czech Republic lost at
least 1.7 percent. China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 0.9
percent, the most among Asian benchmark indexes. South Korea’s
Kospi index dropped 0.8 percent. Stock markets in  Hungary , Hong
Kong and  Thailand  are closed for holidays.  China’s economy expanded 7.4 percent in the third quarter
from a year earlier, compared with 7.6 percent in the April-June
period and the seventh quarter of slowing growth. The
International Monetary Fund this month cut its forecast for
global growth in 2012 to 3.3 percent from a previous estimate of
3.5 percent.  Rand Weakens  South Africa’s rand weakened 1.4 percent against the
dollar. The South Korean won gained 0.1 percent, to the
strongest in more than a year.  Poland’s  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the copper producer with the
biggest European mine output, lost 3.4 percent. OAO Novolipetsk
Steel, a Russian steelmaker, retreated to the lowest level since
Sept. 7. OAO Lukoil, Russia’s second-largest oil company,
slipped 2.3 percent.  TNK-BP Holding plunged 17 percent to a record low on
concern the company will curb dividend payouts after it is
acquired by state-backed OAO Rosneft. OAO Mechel, Russia’s
largest producer of coal for steelmaking, lost 3.9 percent after
it temporarily suspended mining at its Bluestone complex in the
U.S.  Brazil’s iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE3)  and state-controlled oil
company  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  retreated at least 1.7 percent.  Shanxi Coking  The MSCI developing nations measure has climbed 8.8 percent
this year, trailing a 9.9 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index of developed countries. The emerging-market gauge trades
for 11.5 times estimated earnings, compared with the MSCI
World’s 13.1 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Posco (005490)  dropped 2.1 percent, to the lowest level since March
2009. Parent net income was 744 billion won ($675 million) in
the three months ended Sept. 30, less than the 753.6 billion won
average of 17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Itau Unibanco declined 3.2 percent to the lowest level
since July after posting a 13 percent drop in profit in the
third quarter.  Shanxi Coking Co., the largest publicly traded coking coal
producer in China, slid 1.1 percent after third-quarter profit
dropped 74 percent from a year earlier.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 280 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Leite in New York at 
 Jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  