-- Meningitis Outbreak Exposes Need to Stop Drug Shortages
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-10-23T22:30:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/meningitis-outbreak-exposes-need-to-stop-drug-shortages.html
The outbreak of fungal meningitis
has exposed more than one dangerous weakness in the U.S. drug
supply network. The need for better oversight of large-scale
compounding pharmacies might be the most glaring; it was such a
facility that produced the moldy steroid injections that have
caused,  at last count , 23 deaths and 297 illnesses.  Yet the outbreak also calls attention to the growing
problem of drug shortages. A shortage in the generic form of the
steroid injection may have encouraged health-care providers to
buy the drug from state-regulated compounding pharmacies.  From 2005 to 2011, the number of drug shortages in the U.S.
rose from 61 to  251 , according to the  Food and Drug
Administration . Until federal regulators can bolster the supply
chain without compromising quality, we can’t be assured of
reliable access to safe medicines.  Methylprednisolone, the drug that has caused the meningitis
outbreak, was not technically in short supply. A brand-name form
made by Pfizer Inc. is on the market. The cheaper generic kind
ran out, however, because the two companies that make it, Teva
Pharmaceuticals Industries Ltd. and Sandoz AG, stopped doing so,
 at least temporarily . Some hospitals and clinics may have  turned
to  compounding pharmacies for the drug to keep their costs down.  Now, even as the FDA continues to investigate the tainted
drug behind the meningitis outbreak, policy makers should find
out what exactly motivated Teva and Sandoz to stop making their
generic versions of the steroid.  Injectable Medicines  To get a sense of what might have happened, consider the
forces that cause  drug shortages . In most cases, the medicines
in tight supply are, like the steroid involved in the meningitis
outbreak, older generic injectables, the kind that are typically
administered by a nurse, doctor or other health professional.
They also include antibiotics and cancer and nutrition drugs.  In an ordinary market, when one company’s production lines
shut down, competitors step in to meet demand. The generic
injectable drug business is different, however, in that it is
greatly influenced by the practices of Medicare, the largest
U.S. purchaser of health care. As a Bloomberg Government study
points out, Medicare rules from 2005 prevent reimbursement to
providers for injectables and other drugs that health-care
workers administer from rising more than 6 percent above the
average sales price. The cap has reduced suppliers’ incentive to
expand capacity when shortages happen.  This price limit -- well intended to prevent Medicare from
overpaying for drugs -- also puts pressure on generic drug
makers to stint on quality control.  Concern for quality can make any production process more
expensive. So it isn’t surprising that an increase in
inspections of drug-making facilities by the FDA in the past few
years has also contributed to shortages. Most drugs that were
hard to come by as of February were made by facilities where the
FDA had  flagged quality problems , including findings of glass
shards, metal filings and fungal or other contamination. When
regulators raise such issues, the easiest and least expensive
response for drug makers is often to stop production.  Although some  politicians  and  commentators  have thus blamed
drug shortages on overzealous FDA policing, it makes little
sense for the federal government to try to solve a drug quantity
problem by letting down its guard on quality. Consider, for
example, the 80 deaths caused by contaminated batches of heparin
(an injectable blood thinner) in 2007 and 2008.  Shortage Warnings  A  new federal law  signed by President  Barack Obama  in July
requires drug companies to notify the FDA six months in advance
of anticipated problems that might lead them to shut down
production of a drug. (In the past, such action was required
only of sole-source manufacturers.) This was a strong step, and
could be made even stronger if drug makers were penalized for
noncompliance.  Of course, by giving public warning of impending shortages,
this new requirement runs the risk of encouraging some hospitals
and clinics to hoard drugs, further constricting the supply. The
FDA will need to look at ways to discourage this response.  Still more helpful would be a change in the Medicare price
controls -- to either raise the cap above 6 percent or, as
Ezekiel Emanuel, a former adviser to the Obama administration on
health-care policy,  recommends , at least do so when a shortage
develops.  Congress is in no mood to boost Medicare spending, of
course. But shortages come with costs of their own. Hospitals
spend about 1 percent of their drug budgets dealing with them,
Bloomberg Government estimates, or about $3 billion a year.
Often the extra money is spent purchasing drugs through the so-
called  gray market , in which drug buyers hold and ultimately
resell scarce medicines for many times their original price.  Strict adherence to Medicare’s price caps on injectable
drugs may be penny-wise and pound-foolish. And it stands in the
way of ensuring Americans’ constant access to safe, injectable
drugs of every kind.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on why  Palestinians should
pursue elections before statehood ;  Margaret Carlson  on  why
politics is so personal  in  Massachusetts ; Clive Crook on what
 Obama could learn from Romney  about tacking to the center;  Peter
Orszag  on how states have avoided  pension funding problems ; Cass
R. Sunstein on  imagining yourself in 20 years ; Ronen Bergman on
 Hezbollah’s preparations for war .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 