-- Meningitis Cases Rise Past 300 Illnesses in U.S. Outbreak
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-23T22:53:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/meningitis-cases-edge-past-300-in-nationwide-outbreak.html
The number of fungal meningitis
cases linked to tainted steroid injections surpassed 300 as
deaths from the outbreak remained at 23, U.S. regulators said.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention said today
that  308 people  have contracted infections linked to epidural
steroid shots, most meant to ease back pain, compared with 297
cases as of yesterday. The illnesses have spread to 17 states as
 Georgia  reported its first case, the agency said on its website.  Investigators in  Massachusetts , where the company that
mixed the steroid shots is based, said in preliminary findings
today there was evidence that sterilizing procedures weren’t
fully followed by New England Compounding Pharmacy Inc. A
leaking boiler was found adjacent to a so-called clean room, and
it was determined that compounded drugs weren’t labeled with
patient-specific identifiers, according to the  report .  “NECC was operating beyond the scope of their compounding
license, instead acting as a manufacturer,” Madeleine
Biondolillo, director of the Massachusetts Department of Public
Health’s Bureau of Health Care Safety and Quality, said today in
prepared remarks.  A lawyer for Framingham, Massachusetts-based NECC said the
board had numerous opportunities, including last year, to
inspect the facility and should have known how the company was
run.  “Based on that history, it is hard to imagine that the
board has not been fully apprised of both the manner and scale
of the company’s operations,” Paul Cirel, NECC’s counsel, said
in an e-mail.  License Surrender  A state regulatory board authorized the Massachusetts
Department of  Public Health  to request permanent surrender of
NECC’s license yesterday and those of three pharmacists at the
company, according to the report. The company voluntarily turned
in its license Oct. 3 pending the investigation.  Compounding pharmacies, which are regulated by state
governments, are supposed to prepare individual prescriptions
unavailable through regular avenues, such as those with a unique
dosage. The drug linked to the meningitis outbreak was mixed in
more than 17,000 doses and sold to at least 75 hospitals and
clinics in 23 states, the CDC has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  