-- Hepburn Mastered Film Comedy, Drama, Fashion: Rainer File
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-10-23T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/hepburn-mastered-film-comedy-drama-fashion-rainer-file.html
For my money,  Katharine Hepburn  was
America’s finest actress. But America’s finest clothes horse?  A new exhibit, running through January 12, 2013, at the  New
York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center 
makes the case.  With her preference for slacks, Hepburn cultivated a
stylishly androgynous look that made her an icon to many, if an
irritant to some.  By the way, note that I am not using the word “pants”
here in deference to her immortal line in “ Pat and Mike ”
(1952), the best of her nine movies with Spencer Tracy:
“They’re not pants, they’re slacks. Watch your language.”  It’s Hepburn’s performances, of course, and not her
costumes, that are her legacy. In her 66-year career, she
appeared in 44 films and eight television movies, as well as
some 33 plays. The stinker quotient is awfully low for such an
extended run.  Not that there weren’t more than a few of those. She was
ineffably miscast as a Chinese patriot in the Pearl Buck
adaptation “ Dragon Seed ” (1944). With her Yankee verve and
Bryn Mawr intonations, who is less Mandarin than Hepburn?  Mountain Girl  And even though Kenneth Tynan once referred to her as “the
Garbo of the Great Outdoors,” that’s because he probably never
saw her as the uneducated Ozark mountain girl Trigger Hicks in
“ Spitfire ” (1934).  In her 1991 autobiography “Me: Stories of My Life,” which
is so stylistically staccato that it makes Mickey Spillane seem
like late  Henry James , Hepburn had this to say: “Was a Southern
sort of mountain spirit. Shame on you, Kathy.”  But of the glories, there is almost no end. In her very
first movie, “ A Bill of Divorcement ” (1932), opposite John Barrymore, she already was sui generis -- imperially elegant,
angular and self-possessed. A year later, as the star-struck
actress in “ Morning Glory ,” she won the first of her four
Oscars.  Her performances as Jo in “ Little Women ” (1933) and as
the small-town social climber in “ Alice Adams ” (1935) are so
strikingly vivid that it’s as if she was putting us right inside
her head.  Madcap Heiress  It’s difficult to believe that, for a time in the late 1930s
exhibitors labeled Hepburn “box office poison.” (She was in
good company, along with Garbo and Dietrich). It’s equally
difficult to comprehend that perhaps her greatest comedy,
“ Bringing Up Baby ” (1938), where she plays a madcap heiress
opposite  Cary Grant ’s hornswoggled paleontologist, was a
commercial flop.  None of this sank Hepburn, any more than the devastating
reviews of her Broadway performance in “The Lake” back in
1933, which prompted Dorothy Parker’s immortal quip that Hepburn
“runs the gamut of emotions from A to B.”  Less well-known is George S. Kaufman’s jab, after hearing
that Hepburn had sheets put up in the wings to avoid a draft:
“She’s afraid she might catch acting.” (Hepburn, it should be
noted, agreed with Parker and Kaufman).  Tracy Lord  She engineered her own triumphant comeback in Philip
Barry’s “ The Philadelphia Story ,” first on Broadway in 1939
and then as a George Cukor film in 1940, co-starring Grant and
 Jimmy Stewart . She had bought the film rights (reportedly
bankrolled by boyfriend  Howard Hughes ) before the play opened,
which allowed her to call the shots in Hollywood. Hepburn said
of her role as Philadelphia blueblood Tracy Lord: “I gave her
life and she gave me back my career.”  Hepburn’s best comedies also include “ Adam’s Rib ”
(1949), where she and Tracy parry as married lawyers on opposing
ends of a court battle, and “ The African Queen ” (1951), where
her spinster Rosie, in a performance inspired by  Eleanor Roosevelt ’s smile-in-the-face-of-adversity fortitude, settles in
with Humphrey Bogart’s gin-soaked river rat.  Films like these set her firmly in the pantheon of
Hollywood’s most accomplished comediennes. What is virtually
unprecedented is how she could be equally great in tragedy.  As drug-addicted Mary Tyrone in Sidney Lumet’s film of
 Eugene O’Neill ’s “ Long Day’s Journey Into Night ” (1962) she
gives her finest performance. In her final scene, dragging
around her wedding dress while in a doped-up haze, she evokes
abject awe and terror.  Spencer Tracy  In order to care for the dying Tracy, Hepburn did not work
again in the movies until 1967, in “ Guess Who’s Coming to
Dinner .” (Tracy died 17 days after filming his last scene.)  In the remaining decades, she played indomitable types:
Eleanor of Aquitane in “ The Lion in Winter ” (1968), Hecuba,
Queen of Troy in “ The Trojan Women ” (1971),  Coco Chanel  on
Broadway in the panned but popular musical “Coco” (1969-1970)
and, at 74, Yankee matriarch Ethel Thayer opposite  Henry Fonda 
in  “On Golden Pond ” (1981).  In her own life, as both actress and modern American
female archetype, Hepburn was as indomitable as any of the women
she played.  The Library for the  Performing Arts  is at  Lincoln Center ,
Broadway at 65th Street. Information: +1-212-870-1600;
http:// www.nypl.org/locations/lpa.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are his own).  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on books and D.C.
 Scene .  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at  mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  