-- Tesoro Cash May Double as Refinery Fire Boosts Prices
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-10-23T20:25:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/tesoro-cash-may-double-as-refinery-fire-boosts-prices.html
Refiners including  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  and
 Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  fell on speculation by Deutsche Bank that a
win by Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  may
threaten restrictions on U.S. crude exports.  Tesoro fell 4.5 percent to $36.42 at the close in New York,
and Valero dropped 3.8 percent to $28.36. Tesoro has risen 56
percent this year, and Valero is up 35 percent.  “We believe a Mitt Romney election win -- broadly
supported by the refining industry -- could in fact threaten the
crude export ban,” Paul Sankey, a Deutsche Bank energy analyst
based in New York, wrote today in a note to investors.  The U.S. has restricted exports of crude oil since the
1970s. Eliminating the ban would allow U.S. producers to seek
higher prices for their crude and limit the ability of refiners
to buy cheaper oil to feed their plants, slowing a rally that
has put some refiners on a pace to double profits this year
compared to 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank’s speculation about Romney stems from “assuming
his chief energy advisor,  Harold Hamm , CEO of Bakken play
 Continental Resources (CLR) , would support de-regulation,” Sankey
said.  U.S. refining  margins  have fallen 29 percent since Oct. 5
as pipeline projects to ship crude from areas with new U.S.
production in the Midwest and Great Plains approach completion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The projects include an effort by  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  and
 Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  to double capacity on the Seaway
pipeline and  Magellan Midstream Partners LP (MMP) ’s reversal of the
Longhorn pipeline from West Texas to Houston.  Spread Widens  The new pipelines will cause the price of West Texas
Intermediate crude, the U.S. benchmark, to rise relative to
Brent, narrowing the cost advantage that has been at the root of
the refining rally, Sankey said.  The  spread , or difference, between WTI and Brent widened 4
percent to $21.63 a barrel today at 12:08 p.m. in  New York , a
price that’s 38 percent higher than the $15.69  average  price in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 2011 average
was an all-time high.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  