-- EU Drug Agency Probes Roche; Fines May Be 5% of EU Sales
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-10-23T16:08:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/eu-drug-agency-probes-roche-fines-may-be-5-of-eu-sales.html
The European Medicines Agency is
investigating whether  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  met its legal
responsibilities to report drug side effects, a review that may
lead to fines of as much as 5 percent of the company’s sales in
the European Union.  The agency will decide whether Roche properly monitored the
safety of the 19 drugs it markets in the EU, according to a
 statement  today. The case is the first of its kind, Martin Harvey Allchurch, a spokesman for the London-based agency, said
in a telephone interview.  “As of today, there is no change in the benefit-risk of
the products currently on the market,” he said. “We don’t want
people to stop taking their medicines based on what we currently
know today.”  The agency began a review in June of the public-health
implications of Roche’s failure to evaluate 80,000 reports of
potential safety issues to determine whether they should have
been flagged to the EU as suspected adverse reactions. The two
investigations are now running in parallel, as the EMA probes
the case’s legal and public-health implications, Allchurch said.  The EMA is required to make a recommendation to the
European Commission by April 2014, Allchurch said. The
commission would then rule on the case and may levy a fine of as
much as 5 percent of Roche’s EU sales in the preceding year.  Roche reported 12.8 billion Swiss francs ($13.7 billion) in
EU  sales  last year.  “We’re working together with the authorities on this,”
Daniel Grotzky, a spokesman for Basel, Switzerland-based Roche,
said by phone. “We’ve been in close contact.”  Support Program  The reports had come from a support program run out of the
U.S. for patients who couldn’t afford medicines, not a clinical
trial, Grotzky said. The reports hadn’t been processed inside a
Roche database, and therefore hadn’t been passed to EU
authorities. According to the EMA, the reports included 15,161
patient  deaths .  “What we’re doing now is basically going through all these
cases and seeing which ones of these might be potential adverse
events, and as we’re updating our database, we’re reporting back
to health authorities,” Grotzky said. “At this point in time
we have not seen any change to the safety profile of the
drugs.”  Roche dropped 2 percent to 182.20 Swiss francs in Zurich.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  