-- EU May Weigh Carbon Price Support, Offset Limit, Draft Shows
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-10-23T11:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/eu-may-weigh-carbon-price-mechanisms-offset-limits-draft-shows.html
The European Union may consider
introducing mechanisms to support carbon prices and limit the
use of offsets in its emissions trading system after 2020 to
strengthen the market, according to a draft EU document.  Other options for the 27-nation bloc to strengthen the
world’s biggest cap-and-trade program are tightening the EU
emissions-reduction target, canceling a number of carbon permits
to alleviate an oversupply and expansion of the system into new
industries, according to the draft report on the state of the
European carbon market obtained by  Bloomberg News .  The report, which floats various scenarios for the EU
emissions trading system, or the ETS, is currently being
considered by the European Commission and will be sent next
month to the bloc’s member states and the European Parliament.
The commission, the bloc’s regulatory arm in Brussels, wants
policy makers to start talks about a long-term overhaul of the
ETS after emission prices plunged to a record low in April.  “The options for structural measures outlined in the
report should be discussed and explored without delay,”
according to the document.  EU carbon permits for December dropped 0.1 percent to 7.90
euros a metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange as of
10:52 a.m. in  London . The contract extended its decline to 28
percent in the past year as the financial crisis hurt industrial
production and cut demand from industry for pollution rights,
boosting a glut of allowances to almost half of the average
annual pollution limit in the system.  Limit Supply  The long-term measures to improve the ETS will complement a
short-term plan by the commission to limit the supply of carbon
allowances at auctions in 2013-2015 to help prices recover, the
report said. The strategy, known as backloading, includes a
draft measure to delay sales of an as-yet unspecified number of
permits and a one-sentence amendment to the EU emissions trading
law to reassert the commission’s right to decide about the
timing of auctions.  The commission will officially submit next month the
backloading proposal with a specific number of permits to be
delayed and will invite representatives of national governments
in the EU Climate Change Committee to vote on the measure before
the end of this year, according to the draft report on the
carbon market.  To “eliminate any uncertainty” about postponing some
permits at auctions, the European Parliament and national
governments should “urgently adopt the proposed  mini-amendment 
to the EU ETS directive that would clarify expressly the
relevant provision,” the commission said in the draft report.  Structural Surplus  While backloading would allow for a “more stable”
functioning of the carbon market in its next trading period
starting in 2013 and known as Phase 3, it will not address the
structural surplus of allowances, according to the report. To do
so the EU will need to enact measures that would affect “more
profoundly and permanently the balance between supply and
demand,” the commission said. The scenarios to be floated by
the commission would not constitute legislative proposals.  One of the options could be increasing the EU target to
reduce emissions to 30 percent in 2020 compared with 1990 levels
from the current 20 percent, according to the report. To tighten
the goal to that level the EU would need to remove 1.4 billion
allowances from the market, the draft showed. A revision of the
current EU law would require support by national governments and
the Parliament.  New Decision  Another option would be cancelling permits through a new
decision by the parliament and member states, without changing
the existing law, the commission said in the draft. That would
affect allowances to be auctioned while leaving free allocation
to companies in the ETS intact, the report showed.  “The measure could be effective in addressing the overall
supply-demand imbalance over Phase 3 but it would not address
the framework after 2020,” according to the commission.
Removing permits would ensure that the ETS drives innovation and
contributes to renewables and energy efficiency objectives, the
draft said.  The third potential option included in the draft report is
a revision of the 1.74 percent linear reduction factor by which
pollution caps in the ETS fall annually from 2013. While the EU
law envisages a review of the factor as of 2020, with a decision
to be adopted by 2025, the change could be brought forward,
according to the commission. Any potential change, which would
not only address the imbalance in the next trading period but
also affect the supply of allowances after 2020, would need
approval by governments and the Parliament.  Tougher Rules  The ETS could also be strengthened by expanding into new
sectors or tougher rules on imports of  carbon offsets  in Phase 4
to initially allow “for no or much more limited access to
international credits,” the draft report showed.  “Short-term demand shocks could be contained through the
remaining surplus in the EU ETS, and do not require per
definition a large amount of international credits,” according
to the commission. “Additional flexibility could be foreseen,
for instance by creating an automatic system that allows an
increase in access to international credits under certain
circumstances, such as a strong and sustained price increase.”  The sixth scenario floated by the commission in the draft
document includes two mechanisms to temporarily support the
price of allowances: a carbon price floor and a price management
reserve. Under the latter an amount of permits could be put in a
reserve if a decline in demand would lead to “an excessive
price decrease,” the commission said.  These mechanisms would “alter the nature of the EU ETS as
a quantity-based mechanism,” according to the draft. “They
carry a downside in that the carbon price may become primarily a
product of administrative and political decisions (or
expectations about them), rather than a result of the interplay
of market supply and demand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  