-- EU’s Van Rompuy, Barroso Warn Against Debt-Crisis Complacency
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-10-23T14:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/eu-s-van-rompuy-barroso-warn-against-debt-crisis-complacency.html
Two top European Union officials
warned the euro area against complacency about the debt crisis
after an easing of market tensions, saying political battles lie
ahead over the latest push to protect the single currency.  EU President Herman  Van Rompuy  and  Jose Barroso , head of
the EU’s regulatory arm, said the euro region can’t afford to
backtrack on plans for a single bank supervisor and tougher
oversight of national budgets.  “Not all member states feel the same degree of urgency,
which probably is due to the fact that they are in different
financial and fiscal positions,” Barroso, president of the
European Commission, said in a debate with EU lawmakers today in
Strasbourg, France. “Some of these issues are extremely
difficult from a political and technical point of view, but the
decisions should be as urgent as possible.”  A respite in European bond markets three years into the
debt crisis risks weakening euro-area politicians’ push to add
to their crisis-fighting armor, which includes a 500 billion-
euro ($649 billion) permanent rescue fund established earlier
this month and the threat of more automatic sanctions against
spendthrift national governments.  Spanish and Italian bond yields have declined since
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  vowed in July to do
what’s needed to preserve the 17-nation euro and announced in
September a bond-buying program for countries willing to sign up
to budget-austerity conditions.  Bank Supervision  That did more than some 486 billion euros in commitments
for  Greece , Ireland,  Portugal  and  Spain ’s banking system since
2010 to soothe markets and has left governments with the task of
agreeing on any rescue terms as well as on centralized bank
supervision led by the ECB.  “We are now addressing the idea of  financial
integration ,” Van Rompuy said in the Strasbourg debate held at
the 27-nation European Parliament. “This work is going to be an
awful lot more difficult than we believe. What we are really
getting to now is the crux, the hard core, of sovereignty and
solidarity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France  at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  