-- EU Should Steepen Carbon-Reduction Trajectory, Survey Shows
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-10-23T12:27:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/eu-should-boost-pace-of-carbon-emission-reductions-survey-shows.html
Europe  should steepen the pace of
greenhouse-gas emission reductions in its carbon market through
2050 as it seeks to fix a glut in the supply of allowances,
according to a survey of traders, lobbyists and analysts.  A more ambitious so-called reduction factor compared with
the current level of 1.74 percent a year was the most popular
among 15 respondents in a Bloomberg News survey conducted over
the past two weeks, attracting 25.6 percent of the points
allocated.  Participants in the anonymous e-mail survey were asked to
select their three favored options from a  list of 13  published
on the website of the International Emissions Trading
Association in Geneva, including one to “do nothing.” Options
were given three points for a first preference, two points for
second and one point for third. Not all respondents offered
three preferences.  The second most popular option was a permanent set-aside,
where carbon allowances were removed from auctions planned in
the eight years starting next year, which attracted 18.6 percent
of the points. In equal third place were the options to do
nothing and set up a carbon bank, each with 10.5 percent.  The EU has pledged to cut emissions by at least 20 percent
in the two decades through 2020, and by as much as 30 percent if
other developed nations agree to make cuts.  The current linear reduction factor leads to a 70 percent
drop in the market’s cap by 2050, according to a draft report on
the state of the European carbon market obtained this week by
Bloomberg News. That’s looser than the EU’s target for a
reduction of at least 80 percent and as much as 95 percent in
that period.  Combination of Options  The European Commission, governments and lawmakers will
probably prefer a combination of the options on IETA’s list,
said Isabelle Curien, an analyst in Paris for Deutsche Bank AG.
“What we need is a combination of measures,” she said Oct. 18
by e-mail.  Curien said her personal preference was for a temporary
removal of supply from the market, which may result in a
permanent set-aside of allowances. The bloc should also create
and install a carbon central back to help manage supply, she
said.  The European Federation of Energy Traders suggested last
week that an early increase in the pace of yearly carbon
reduction would not only help deal with the glut, it would ease
cuts needed after 2020.  “If the trajectory were to be aligned with the EU long-
term targets in 2013, this could already be met with relatively
modest efforts and a reduction factor of 2.2 percent,” the
lobby group said in a  position paper  published on its website
and dated Oct. 16.  Preventing Factory Closures  An early revision of the reduction factor would require the
bloc to boost its competitiveness in key low-carbon
technologies, increase its success in developing an
international carbon market and find ways to prevent factories
from closing down and moving to regions without such tight
emission limits, according to the draft.  There were three options that ranked equal fifth in the
survey, each receiving 5.8 percent of the points allocated. They
were imposing additional offset restrictions, extending demand
to other industries of the EU economy and reviewing the cap-
setting process.  The options to temporarily withhold volume from the market
and installation of a so-called oversupply safety valve both
received 4.7 percent of the points. Another IETA alternative,
setting in place an auction-reserve price, got 3.5 percent of
the points.  A policy of introducing rules governing how emitters can
bank allowances into future compliance phases received 1.2
percent of the points, while the option to adjust the cap after
verified data is available got none.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  