-- Euro Holds Loss Before PMI, Sentiment Data; Aussie Surges
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-10-24T07:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/euro-holds-decline-before-pmi-yen-near-3-month-low-on-boj-bets.html
The euro weakened for a second day
against the dollar before reports that economists said will show
 Europe ’s debt turmoil is weighing on economic growth.  The 17-nation currency fell versus 14 of its 16 major
counterparts as investors questioned whether Spain will seek a
financial bailout. Reports today are forecast to show
manufacturing and services industries in the euro area
contracted for a ninth month and German business confidence was
close to the lowest since February 2010. The Australian dollar
rose after an industry report signaled that a slowdown in
Chinese manufacturing is abating.  “We would see a bit more downside in the near term for the
euro,” said  Imre Speizer , a strategist in Auckland at  Westpac
Banking Corp. (WBC) , Australia’s second-largest lender. “Economic
numbers are hurting the euro and the lack of a Spanish bailout
is also hurting.”  The euro dropped 0.1 percent to $1.2971 at 8:36 a.m. London
time after declining to $1.2952 yesterday, the weakest level
since Oct. 16. The shared currency fell 0.1 percent to 103.57
yen. The yen was little changed at 79.83 per dollar.  A composite  index  based on a survey of purchasing managers
in manufacturing and services industries in the euro area was at
46.5 in October, below the 50 level which indicates a
contraction, according to the median estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Business Climate  Economists in a separate Bloomberg survey estimate the Ifo
institute’s index of German business climate index was at 101.6
this month from 101.4 in September, the lowest since February
2010. Data yesterday showed a gauge of sentiment among French
factory executives dropped to the least since August 2009 and
Spain’s economy contracted for a fifth quarter.  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy said yesterday there
is a case for easing budget-deficit targets set by the European
Union as the recession undermines tax revenue. Rajoy didn’t
mention seeking aid even as he praised the European Central
Bank’s offer to help lower troubled countries’ borrowing costs.
Spain’s 10-year bond  yield  climbed 13 basis points yesterday to
5.62 percent. It was at 5.65 percent today.  Australia ’s dollar rose for the first time in five days
against the U.S. currency after HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said a preliminary reading of a purchasing managers’
index for  China  climbed to 49.1 in October from 47.9 last month.
China is Australia’s biggest trading partner.  “A pause in the slowdown of the Chinese economy is
positive for market sentiment overall,” said Masafumi Yamamoto,
chief foreign-exchange strategist in Tokyo at Barclays Plc.  Consumer Prices  Australia’s currency also strengthened after data showed
the nation’s consumer prices accelerated more than economists
estimated in the third quarter, giving the central bank scope to
pause next month in cutting interest rates.  The so-called  trimmed mean  gauge of core price rose 0.7
percent from the previous quarter, the Bureau of Statistics said
in Sydney, compared with an economists’ forecast of a 0.6
percent gain.  “The inflation data may have reduced the risk for rate
cuts in the immediate term,” said Callum Henderson, Singapore-
based global head of currency research at Standard Chartered
Plc. “In the short term, we may see the Aussie run back up to
$1.04.”  The so-called Aussie appreciated 0.4 percent to $1.0304,
and gained 0.3 percent to 82.23 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in  Tokyo  at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Dobson at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  