-- Ex-Citadel Portfolio Manager Scherer to Start New Fund
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-10-23T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/ex-citadel-portfolio-manager-scherer-to-start-new-fund.html
Kevin Scherer, a former Citadel LLC
senior portfolio manager, plans to start Continuum Investment
Management, a hedge fund investing in residential and commercial
mortgage debt and asset-backed securities.  Scherer, 46, a former managing director at Citadel, where
he worked from 2008 to 2011 trading in structured credit, is
starting Continuum with three former colleagues with whom he
worked at  Ken Griffin ’s Chicago-based hedge fund, Scherer said
in a telephone interview. They plan to seek about $250 million
when they start the firm in January.  Scherer and his team join other funds started this year to
invest in structured credit, including former Dalton Investments
LLC managing directors who formed a Los Angeles-based mortgage
hedge fund this month and ex-proprietary traders at Royal Bank
of  Canada  and Bank of America Corp., who plan to start a similar
strategy at New York-based TIG Advisors LLC. Other money
managers that have started pools of capital in 2012 to wager on
residential and commercial loan bonds and asset-backed
securities include Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, D.E. Shaw
& Co. and Angelo Gordon & Co.  “We’re seeing world financial institutions delever their
balance sheets -- that’s attracted a significant amount of
capital,” Scherer said. “Anytime the government extracts
themselves from a market, there are significant opportunities.”  Citadel Colleagues  Scherer will be joined by Brian McDonald, former senior
portfolio manager at Citadel, who will take the same title at
New York-based Continuum; Jimmy Rizos, former head of mortgage
technology at Citadel, who will take a similar role at
Continuum; and Stephen Cameron, former mortgage quantitative
strategist at Citadel, who will be head of research and
development at Continuum.  While at Citadel, Scherer managed the Single Investor Fund,
which traded in residential and commercial mortgage-backed
securities.  Before Citadel, Scherer co-founded Midway Group LP, the
$450 million New York-based mortgage-arbitrage hedge fund, with
Bob Sherak, in 2000. Scherer worked at Midway for eight years.  Continuum’s strategies will include making market-neutral
investments, in which the firm tries to generate a profit
without taking a view of broader market direction, and relative-
value bets, which attempt to profit from price differences
between assets, Scherer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in  New York  at   kbit@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  