-- Ex-CIA Agent Pleads Guilty to Disclosing Covert Operative
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-23T18:49:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/ex-cia-agent-pleads-guilty-to-disclosing-covert-operative-1-.html
A former Central Intelligence Agency
officer who helped capture alleged al-Qaeda operative Abu Zubaydah admitted to revealing secret information on two other
CIA officers involved in questioning terror suspects.  John Kiriakou, 48, pleaded guilty today in federal court in
Alexandria,  Virginia , to one count of intentionally disclosing
information identifying a covert agent. It was the first
successful prosecution of a violation of the Intelligence
Identities Protection Act in 27 years, according to an e-mailed
statement from CIA Director David H. Petraeus.  “Oaths do matter, and there are indeed consequences for
those who believe they are above the laws that protect our
fellow officers and enable American intelligence agencies to
operate with the requisite degree of secrecy,” Petraeus said.  Kiriakou, of Arlington, Virginia, was charged in January
and accused of making illegal disclosures about the CIA officers
and their involvement in classified operations to journalists on
multiple occasions from 2007 to 2009. The plea agreement calls
for 30 months in prison when he’s sentenced on Jan. 25,
according to prosecutors.  As part of the plea agreement, the government dropped three
charges of violating the Espionage Act for allegedly disclosing
national defense information to unauthorized individuals.
Prosecutors also abandoned a charge that Kiriakou lied to the
CIA in an effort to trick the agency into allowing him to
publish classified information in his book, “The Reluctant Spy:
My Secret Life in the CIA’s War on Terror.”  ‘Overseas Assignments’  A CIA officer from 1990 to 2004, Kiriakou served at
headquarters and in classified overseas assignments, according
to a statement of facts filed today in court.  Kiriakou revealed the name of a covert CIA officer in an
August 2008 e-mail to a journalist who in turn sent the
information to a defense investigator representing a detainee at
the U.S. detention facility at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, according
to the criminal complaint. The information was used to assemble
photographs defense lawyers presented to detainees to determine
whether any of the people pictured were involved in their
interrogation, prosecutors said.  The covert employee’s association with the CIA had been
classified for more than two decades, according to the statement
of facts.  Contact Information  Kiriakou was also accused of disclosing to three different
journalists that another CIA officer participated in the
operation to capture and question Zubaydah, including providing
contact information for the officer to two of the reporters. The
operation was part of the CIA’s classified Rendition, Detention
and Interrogation Program.  As the leader of the CIA team that captured Zubaydah,
Kiriakou was the first agency official to confirm publicly that
Zubaydah was subjected to waterboarding. In a 2007 ABC News
interview, Kiriakou said the technique, which simulates
drowning, was torture.  The waterboarding broke Zubaydah in 35 seconds, leading to
information that helped thwart “maybe dozens of attacks,” he
told ABC.  It turned out Kiriakou, who didn’t participate in the
waterboarding, was wrong. Zubaydah underwent the technique at
least 83 times, according to a Justice Department legal memo.  Officers ‘Misled’  “I believe now that the CIA did not report these sessions
even internally, which means that my colleagues and I had been
misled,” he wrote in a 2010 Washington Post article.  Kiriakou’s actions “were not motivated by disloyalty to
the  United States , and they were without malice to others or
benefit to himself,” his lawyer, Robert Trout, said in an e-
mailed statement.  On June 22, 2008, the  New York  Times published an article
that publicly named a CIA officer who had been involved in the
Zubaydah operation.  The article, written by Scott Shane, focused on a man using
the name Deuce Martinez, whom it described as a “soft-spoken”
CIA analyst who spoke no Arabic, interrogating Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, the alleged mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks.  By building rapport with Mohammed, Martinez gathered
information on al-Qaeda’s structure, past plots and future
plans, according to the article. Kiriakou talked to the Times
reporter after being warned by the CIA not to discuss classified
matters, according to the article.  “The government has a vital interest in protecting the
identities of those involved in covert operations,” U.S.
Attorney Neil MacBride said in an e-mailed statement. “Leaks of
highly sensitive, closely held and classified information
compromise national security and can put individual lives in
danger.”  The case is U.S. v. Kiriakou, 12-cr-00127, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 