-- Experian to Pay $1.5 Billion for All of Brazil Unit Serasa
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-10-23T19:26:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/experian-to-pay-1-5-billion-for-all-of-brazil-unit-serasa-1-.html
Experian Plc (EXPN) , the world’s largest
credit-checking company, agreed to pay 3.1 billion reais ($1.5
billion) to buy out the minority stake in its Brazilian business
held by a group of banks, including  Itau Unibanco Holding SA. (ITUB)   Experian, based in Dublin, said the purchase of the 29.6
percent holding in Serasa will boost its stake to 99.6 percent,
according to a statement today.  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,  Banco
Santander SA (SAN)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are the other sellers.
Experian said it expects the deal to be completed in the fourth
quarter, subject to regulatory and shareholder approval.  The acquisition will help Experian take advantage of
lending growth in Brazil and the implementation rules that will
establish consumer credit scores in the South American nation.
Lending  increased  almost threefold to 2.2 trillion reais in
August from 799.9 billion reais in June 2007, when Experian
bought the first stake in Serasa, according to data from the
central bank.  “We see significant potential for future growth in
 Brazil ,” Don Robert, Experian’s chief executive officer, said
in the statement.  Experian shares rose 3.8 percent to 1087 pence in London
trading, the biggest gain for the stock since Nov. 10.  Serasa, which provides data on consumer and company credit,
posted revenue of 1.48 billion reais in the three months through
March, according to the statement.  Itau said today that it agreed to sell its 16.1 percent
stake in Serasa to Experian for 1.7 billion reais, according to
a regulatory filing. Bradesco said the deal will generate pretax
profit of 786 million reais, according to another filing in
Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in  Sao Paulo  at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  