-- Hezbollah Prepares for a Wider War Than It May Want
-- B y   R o n e n   B e r g m a n
-- 2012-10-23T22:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/hezbollah-prepares-for-a-wider-war-than-it-may-want.html
Hezbollah’s  launching  of a pilotless
spy plane, which was shot down by  Israel ’s air force in the
southern part of the country in early October, has been seen as
more evidence that the Lebanese militia is preparing for war.  Israelis  assume  that the drone was gathering visual
intelligence to help Hezbollah in its goal of bombarding distant
targets with long-range surface-to-surface missiles.  No doubt it was collecting information in case of another
confrontation with Israel, but whether the terrorist group is
seeking a full-blown war is a more complicated question that may
 depend less  on what Hezbollah wants than on the heat it is
getting from its patrons.  The group’s possession of so sophisticated a craft (which
was assembled from Iranian-made parts) is further evidence that
Hezbollah is the most advanced and best-equipped militia of its
kind the world has ever seen.  Ever since it forced the Israelis’ panicky retreat from
Lebanon in 2000, Hezbollah has been building up an immense
military force, with firepower that 90 percent of the world’s
countries don’t possess, according to Meir Dagan, the former
director of the  Mossad , Israel’s intelligence agency.  The militia’s war doctrine is based on the assumption that
 Israel  is hypersensitive to civilian casualties, that it cannot
wage a protracted war and that it will always aim for the
quickest possible clear-cut victory. With this in mind,
Hezbollah has constructed a complex network of underground
bunkers with the goal of assuring survivability, redundancy and
an ability to maintain a prolonged missile barrage against
Israeli cities.  Successful Strategy  The doctrine proved itself in the war between the two sides
in 2006, when Israel failed in its attempt to liquidate
Hezbollah and was once again forced to withdraw from Lebanon,
bruised and bleeding.  Hezbollah’s approach to combat came from  Iran . The
organization was founded in 1983 by Iran’s revolutionary guards
as part of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini’s plan to export his
revolution. Over the years, with Iranian funding and
encouragement, the group has become the most important political
and military player in Lebanon.  In recent years, Hezbollah has taken on an additional role,
serving as an effective bargaining chip in the balance of fear
between Iran and Israel, deterring the latter from going ahead
with any mission to attack Iran’s nuclear installations. One
reason that Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has held
back is Hezbollah’s ability to wreak havoc in Israel with its
huge stockpile of some 70,000 missiles and rockets, the most
powerful of which is the Scud D, with a range of 700 kilometers
(about 435 miles). Were it not for Hezbollah’s missiles, a top
Israeli defense official told me, Israel would have  struck
Iran’s sites  long ago.  That said, one shouldn’t draw conclusions based only on
Hezbollah’s past and potential successes. The organization is at
a crossroads.  Syria , its second-most-important ally, is going
through upheaval and faces fundamental changes. The munitions
from Iran to Hezbollah are transported through  Syria . The regime
of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad has also supplied large
weapons to Hezbollah, as well as provided access to launching
sites -- “the strategic bases,” as Mossad calls them -- for its
missile barrages against Israel.  Any regime that takes over from Assad will remember who
supported him as he slaughtered thousands of civilians. Being
cut off from Syria is a nightmare for Hezbollah leader Hassan Nasrallah.  Lebanon’s Role  No less menacing is the possibility, which is by no means
far-fetched, that the Arab Spring will reach Lebanon, a prospect
that might include a rebellion against Hezbollah’s state within
a state. Even the regime in Iran is far from rock solid, and
changes there could significantly worsen Hezbollah’s relations
with its patron.  With the perspective of time, what appeared to be a victory
over Israel in 2006 takes on a more complex cast. The war began
when Hezbollah abducted two Israeli soldiers in a cross-border
raid. Israel’s massive response came as a surprise to Nasrallah,
and he admitted publicly that he hadn’t expected it. Although
Hezbollah survived and was seen to have won that round, Lebanon
as a whole sustained heavy damage and many Lebanese blamed
Nasrallah for precipitating it.  Nasrallah is aware that the next confrontation with Israel
will look different. The Israelis have invested in vast
intelligence operations since 2006. Hezbollah believes that
these efforts were evident in the February 2008 killing in
Damascus of  Imad Moughniyeh , the group’s military commander,
with a booby-trapped headrest in his car, as well in mysterious
explosions at some of its illicit missile depots in Lebanon.  More important, Israel has already declared several times
that if and when war breaks out again, it will hold the Lebanese
government responsible and will destroy government targets.  The 2006 war created a mutual deterrence: the Israelis
refrain from an open pre-emptive assault against Hezbollah’s
missile stockpiles, while the militia is compelled to moderate
its responses. Instead, it has tried to avenge Mughniyeh’s
assassination and other suspected Israeli actions by  attacking
Israeli tourists  and diplomats in far-flung locations, outside
of the Middle East, from New Delhi, and Baku, Azerbaijan, to
Bangkok.  Nasrallah’s predicament springs chiefly from his dual role
as Iran’s proxy and an authentic Lebanese leader who would like
to be seen as leader of all the Arabs, not only of the Shiites.
It was on behalf of the Iranians, senior Israeli intelligence
officials told me, that Hezbollah operatives attacked Israeli
tourists in the Bulgarian resort of Burgas on July 18, killing
six people.  Iran’s Power  This was seen as revenge for the  assassination  of Iranian
nuclear scientists for which Iran blames Israel. And it is for
Iran’s benefit that Hezbollah has made such intense preparations
for war, including the recent drone reconnaissance mission.
Iran, in the event of an Israeli assault on its territory, will
demand that Hezbollah wreak vengeance on its behalf, and
Nasrallah, the Lebanese politician, is aware that this could
lead to devastation in his country, for which he will be blamed.  Yet it is doubtful that Nasrallah, who owes everything he
possesses to Iran, could say no to such an order from his
patrons. Israeli intelligence sources reckon that he may well
select a middle path -- a barrage that is limited in both the
number of missiles launched and in time, so that Israel won’t
feel obligated to launch a full-scale military attack in
response. This would be a dangerous gamble.  As Nasrallah has learned, it is not always possible to know
what to expect from the other side, especially when it comes to
the Israelis. Even a limited engagement could deteriorate into a
war.  (Ronen Bergman is a senior correspondent for military and
intelligence affairs for Yedioth Ahronoth, an Israeli daily, and
a contributing writer for the  New York  Times Magazine. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the drug shortage behind the
meningitis outbreak  and on why  Palestinians should pursue
elections before statehood ; Margaret Carlson on  why politics is
so personal  in  Massachusetts ; Clive Crook on what  Obama could
learn from Romney  about tacking to the center; Peter Orszag on
how states have avoided  pension funding problems ; Cass R.
Sunstein on  imagining yourself in 20 years .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ronen Bergman at  ronen@ronenbergman.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at  kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 