-- Facebook Sales Top Estimates as Companies Warm to Mobile Ads
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-10-24T00:29:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/facebook-sales-exceed-estimates-as-companies-experiment-with-ads.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , owner of the biggest
social network, posted sales that topped  analysts ’ estimates, a
sign of early success in a push to make more money from
advertisements aimed at users of handheld electronics.  Third-quarter sales rose 32 percent to $1.26 billion, Menlo
Park, California-based  Facebook  said today in a statement. That
compares with the average estimate of $1.23 billion, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding certain items
also exceeded projections by a penny.  Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  has stepped up
investment in tools designed to help businesses attract people
who socialize on mobile devices. Facebook has introduced seven
ad features created for smartphones and tablets since March,
helping it garner 14 percent of ad sales from the mobile arena.  “They’re showing that they can transition even as they’re
going from desktop to mobile,” said  Benjamin Schachter , an
analyst at Macquarie Securities USA Inc., who has a neutral
rating on the stock and doesn’t own it.  Profit excluding certain costs was 12 cents a share in the
third quarter. That compares with the average estimate of 11
cents a share. Facebook had a net loss of $59 million, or 2
cents a share, compared with profit of $227 million, or 10
cents, reflecting a larger provision for income taxes.  Facebook rose in late trading, after gaining less than 1
percent to $19.50 at the close in New York. The stock has fallen
49 percent since the initial public offering in May.  ‘Real Progress’  The company has lost more than $40 billion in market value
since holding the largest Internet IPO on record as investors
fretted that it won’t quickly ramp up mobile-related sales.  Arvind Bhatia, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in
 Dallas , had predicted that only 5 percent of Facebook’s ad sales
would come from mobile.  “They still have a long way to go to prove that this is
sustainable -- they can keep going in this direction, but what
it shows is that things can move relatively quickly,” he said.  With mobile marketing making gains, the number of ads being
shown kept pace with the growth in users during the quarter,
Facebook Chief Financial Officer  David Ebersman  said during a
call with analysts today. Ad prices increased 7 percent, while
the number of ads delivered increased 27 percent.  ‘Misunderstood’ Opportunity  The company’s mobile growth prospects are promising as
users show more engagement on wireless devices than on desktop
computers, Zuckerberg said on the call. The company may
eventually make money more easily from mobile ads than those on
desktops, based on time spent on the service by users, he said.  “Our opportunity on mobile is the most misunderstood
aspect of Facebook today,” he said. “Most people underestimate
how fundamentally good the trend toward mobile can be for
Facebook.”  About 60 percent of Facebook’s more than 1 billion members
are accessing the service on mobile, compared with about 47
percent a year earlier. Since March, Facebook has introduced a
range of tools aimed at wringing sales of mobile ads.  “We’ve said we are increasing our investment in
monetization and we’ve also said that we are increasingly
focused on mobile,” Chief Operating Officer Sheryl Sandberg
said in an interview. “The quarter represents real progress on
both of those fronts.”  Lagging Google  Still, in its first year in the running, Facebook is likely
to rank only sixth in U.S. mobile advertising for 2012, with
just 2.8 percent share of the market, according to  EMarketer
Inc . Google Inc., which is No. 1, is estimated to hold 55
percent, up from 52 percent in 2011.  Earlier this year, Facebook rolled out Sponsored Stories as
its inaugural mobile ad service, letting businesses promote
content that a user’s friends have signaled they “like” or
interacted with in some way. The social network then added
Promoted Posts, which let companies highlight marketing messages
to their fans and friends of fans.  “Mobile’s a great opportunity to grow our users, to grow
engagement and to grow monetization,” Sandberg said. “We’re at
the very early stages.”  Ad revenue grew 36 percent during the quarter to $1.09
billion. The company’s revenue from payments and other fees,
which include sales of virtual goods in games, rose 13 percent.  “We had a solid performance in terms of user growth and
our financial results,” Ebersman said in an interview. “Our
business continues to grow globally.”  Europe Weakness  Results in  Europe  were dragged down by macroeconomic
weakness there, he said.  The company has tried to improve the effectiveness of its
ad tools that help better target users. It has rolled out the
“Facebook Exchange,” letting companies tailor ads on Facebook
based on their Web-browsing history outside of the service. The
company also said it would roll out a service that lets
advertisers use data they’ve collected from their own customers,
such as e-mails and phone numbers, to target those users on
Facebook, using a software tool that is designed to protect the
members’ identities.  While the company is investing in its business, its shares
could come under pressure in the coming weeks as more shares are
freed up for potential trades.  Some shareholders “may choose to divest their stakes
rather than take risks associated with holding the shares any
longer,”  Brian Wieser , an analyst at Pivotal Research Group
LLC, wrote in a research note. “Such an influx would add
meaningfully to stock-price risks if buyers are not present to
absorb the shares.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  