-- Fidelity Sues Singapore, Hong Kong Firms for Infringement
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-10-23T00:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/fidelity-sues-singapore-hong-kong-firms-for-infringement.html
FIL Ltd. , the holding firm of the
Fidelity group of companies that  manages  $233 billion of assets,
sued Singapore and Hong Kong companies for using the Fidelity
name without its permission.  FIL accused Fidelity Trust & Wealth Pte in Singapore of
using the name “Fidelity” to take unfair advantage of the
distinctiveness of the mark and said in a lawsuit filed at the
Singapore High Court that it creates confusion. A closed hearing
is scheduled for Oct. 30.  In a separate lawsuit filed in Hong Kong in August, FIL is
seeking a court order to stop Fidelity International Group Ltd.
from claiming that it’s authorized or licensed by FIL  FIL, known as Fidelity Worldwide Investment, is partly
owned by the billionaire Johnson family, which founded  Boston ’s
 Fidelity Investments .  “We always take action to protect our trademark rights,”
said Tomoko Aikawa, a Hong Kong-based spokeswoman for FIL.
“Fidelity Worldwide Investment takes any infringement of its
intellectual property very seriously.”  The Singapore firm’s two shareholders are Agus Salim and
Edwin Wong Mun Chieh, FIL said in court papers, citing Fidelity
Trust’s company records filed with the city’s accounting
regulator.  Calls to Salim’s and Wong’s homes as listed in Singapore’s
public phone directory weren’t answered. Fidelity Trust hasn’t
filed its defense and its lawyers removed themselves from the
case earlier this month after they were paid with a dishonored,
check, according to court papers. No contact details were
publicly available in  Hong Kong  for Fidelity International Group.  Unspecified Damages  FIL asked for unspecified damages from both the Singapore
and Hong Kong firms, accounts of their profits and to stop using
Fidelity in their names, according to the complaints.  Fidelity Trust, incorporated in September 2010, had
advertised itself as a part of Fidelity International Group,
which provides financial services worldwide, according to the
Singapore complaint.  FIL’s sales in Singapore under the Fidelity trademark fell
67 percent to $619 million for the year ended June 2012,
according to court papers.  The Singapore case is FIL Ltd. v Fidelity Trust & Wealth
Pte. S705/2012. Singapore High Court. The Hong Kong case is FIL
Ltd v Fidelity International Group Ltd. HCA1519/2012. Hong Kong
Court of First Instance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in  Singapore  at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joe Schneider at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net  