-- Finmeccanica Denies Paying Bribes as Graft Probe Widens
-- B y   A n d r e w   D a v i s   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-10-23T17:55:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/finmeccanica-denies-paying-bribes-as-graft-probe-widens-1-.html
Finmeccanica SpA (FNC)  denied paying any
bribes to obtain contracts in  Panama  in a widening corruption
probe that led to the arrest today of its former commercial
director and targeted  Italy ’s former industry minister.  The Rome-based defense contractor denied allegations that
it paid “any form of compensation for mediation” to obtain
three contracts signed in 2010 by its units Selex Sistemi
Integrati, Telespazio  Argentina  and AugustaWestland with the
government of Panama, according to a statement. The company
confirmed the arrest of Paolo Pozzessere, who resigned in
September 2011 as commercial director, and currently advises
Finmeccanica on Russia partnerships.  Naples magistrates have also targeted Italy’s former
Industry Minister Claudio Scajola for allegedly helping the
state-controlled defense contractor secure contracts in  Brazil .  “I acted with complete transparency and always respecting
the law,” he said in an interview with SkyTG24.  Finmeccanica Chief Executive Officer Giuseppe Orsi is
undertaking the company’s biggest overhaul in at least a decade
and is under pressure to deliver 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion)
in asset sales to reduce 4.66 billion euros of debt.
Finmeccanica, its AugustaWestland unit and Orsi are under a
separate corruption probe for the supply of 12 helicopters to
 India  and they have all denied any wrongdoing.  Scajola said that he had two meetings with Brazil’s then-
President Luiz Inacio Lula Da Silva that were also attended by
other Italian government officials to discuss potential
contracts for Finmeccanica in Brazil.  “It was my duty to accompany Italian companies and I don’t
think anything dirty should be seen in that,” he said.  Scajola said that he is willing to travel to Naples to be
heard by investigators in the case as soon as possible. Orsi
said Oct. 15 he doesn’t plan to resign because he wants to
defend himself in the trial to show he’s extraneous to the
accusations. Pozzessere has denied any wrongdoing of any kind.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Andrew Davis at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net 
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net 
Jerrold Colten at  