-- Ford Plans Emergency Meeting at Vulnerable Belgian Plant
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   D o r o t h e e   T s c h a m p a
-- 2012-10-23T06:35:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/ford-plans-emergency-meeting-at-vulnerable-belgian-plant.html
(Corrects spelling of Ford CEO’s name in story from
yesterday.)  Ford Motor Co. (F)  has called an
emergency meeting this week with unions at its underutilized
Belgian factory in Genk, a labor leader said.  The management has invited representatives of the three
unions at the plant to discuss the “economic crisis” on Oct.
24, Rene Champagne, a representative for  Belgium ’s ABVV Metaal
union, said in a telephone interview. Ford has not given more
details about the meeting, Champagne said.  Ford plans to close the factory to reduce capacity in
 Europe  and aims to do so by the end of 2013, the  Frankfurter
Allgemeine Zeitung  reported today, citing unidentified company
executives.  John Gardiner , a Ford spokesman in Europe, declined
to comment.  The plant, which employs about 4,000 workers, is considered
by analysts as vulnerable to closure because Ford has said it
used only 68 percent of Genk’s manufacturing capacity last year.
The vehicles produced in Genk are at the end of their
lifecycles, with a new version of the mid-sized Mondeo to be
introduced to the market in late 2013. The plant also builds the
Galaxy and S-Max minivans.  Ford still has work to do in adjusting its factory capacity
to declining demand, European sales head Roelant de Waard said
Sept. 27, echoing earlier comments from Chief Executive Officer
 Alan Mulally . The automaker announced plans the previous week to
cut “a few hundred” jobs in the region because of declining
sales.  Declining Sales  Ford’s European sales have declined 12 percent this year as
the region heads for the biggest annual plunge in 19 years. Ford
forecasts a loss of more than $1 billion in the region in 2012.  “The only thing they are willing to say is that they’re
not allowed to say anything until Wednesday morning,” Champagne
said.  Of the Dearborn, Michigan-based carmaker’s European
facilities, the Genk plant is the most likely to be closed,
Colin Langan, an analyst at UBS Investment Research, wrote in a
Sept. 17 report. Shutting the factory would result in potential
annual savings of about $500 million and could be completed by
the end of 2013, he wrote.  The U.S. company’s European pretax operating losses widened
to $404 million in the second quarter from $149 million in the
first quarter. The business earned a profit of $176 million a
year earlier.  Ford is utilizing just 63 percent of its factory capacity
in Europe, according to Morgan Stanley. The automaker needs to
reduce capacity by at least 20 percent, Adam Jonas, a New York-
based analyst for Morgan Stanley, said in September. The
automaker’s European losses could reach $1.5 billion to $2
billion this year, he estimated.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorothee Tschampa in Frankfurt at 
 dtschampa@bloomberg.net ;
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  