-- Foreign Policy Debate Omits Most of the Globe
-- B y   J o s h   B a r r o
-- 2012-10-23T04:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/foreign-policy-debate-omits-most-of-the-globe.html
Mitt Romney  was in the odd position tonight of arguing that President  Barack
Obama ’s foreign policy is a failure, while advocating a substantially similar
one.  Given the impossibility of that task, it’s no surprise the president
soundly won tonight’s debate, according to  CBS News 's  instant poll . From Libya to Afghanistan to China, Romney sketched out positions virtually
indistinguishable from the president’s. In some cases, that meant abandoning his
past positions, most notably by endorsing the 2014 deadline for Afghanistan
withdrawal that he previously opposed. Obama seemed to delight in pointing out the changes, saying repeatedly that
Romney has been “all over the map” on foreign policy issues and couldn’t be
trusted to provide steady leadership. He also repeatedly thanked the governor
for endorsing his foreign policy actions. On  MSNBC , Chris Hayes expressed concern about the agreement-fest, noting that
some of America’s biggest foreign policy errors have been accomplished by
bipartisan agreement. But I think in this instance the consensus reflects the
fact that Obama’s foreign policy is mostly good, improving America’s relations
with its allies and making the world a safer place. The biggest problem with this debate, as with the previous ones, is what
wasn’t discussed. There was no discussion of Europe or sub-Saharan Africa and
only a brief mention of  Latin America  by Romney (who, as  Matt Yglesias notes ,
got his key factoid wrong). The candidates did not discuss immigration, the drug
war, global health,  climate change  or the international financial system. Apparently “foreign policy” has come to mean “places in the  Middle East  and
North Africa where we are or might be bombing people, plus some really stupid
and demagogic discussion of trade with China.” As with the vice presidential debate, tonight’s debate felt like  a trip back
to 2004 . If the euro crisis and the ongoing horrors of Latin American drug
interdiction aren’t enough to convince the media that some foreign policy occurs
outside the Middle East, I’m not sure what will. (Josh Barro is lead writer for the Ticker.  E-mail  him and  follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Josh Barro and other Bloomberg View
columnists and editors at  the Ticker .