-- Foreign Visitors to Greece Drop as Economic Crisis Hits Tourism
-- B y   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-10-23T11:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/foreign-visitors-to-greece-drop-as-economic-crisis-hits-tourism.html
The number of foreigners visiting
Greece fell 9 percent in the first six months of the year, as
political and financial turmoil combined with  Europe ’s economic
crisis hurt the country’s tourist industry.  A total of 4.8 million non-resident visitors arrived in
Greece in the six months through June, according to an e-mailed
statement from the  Hellenic Statistical Authority  today. The
number of European visitors, who accounted for 87.8 percent of
the total dropped 7.9 percent to 4.2 million.  Passenger traffic at Athens International Airport SA
dropped 11.2 percent to 10.2 million in the nine months through
Sept. 30, according to a separate statement posted on the
airport’s website. International passenger traffic declined 12.7
percent to 6.7 million, while domestic travelers were down 8.4
percent to 3.6 million.  The decline of foreign visitors is due to “the tarnished
image of Athens and  Greece  abroad, combined with the slow-down
in European economies,” the company said. In September,
passenger traffic dropped 8.8 percent to 1.3 million.  Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s coalition government is
trying to push through a 13.5 billion-euro ($17.6 billion)
austerity package to secure financing from the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund , as the country’s economy
stayed in recession for a fifth consecutive year.  Arrivals from  Germany , who accounted for 12.8 percent of
the total, dropped almost 7 percent, while visitors from the
U.K., who accounted for 12.7 percent of the total, increased 16
percent, the Greek statistics service data showed. The figures
are based on a sample taken at border entry points by the  Bank
of Greece. (ETE)   Tourism, Greece’s biggest industry, accounted for almost 16
percent of gross domestic product and one in five jobs in 2011,
according to the London-based  World Travel and Tourism Council .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  