-- Fracking Will Support 1.7 Million Jobs, Study Shows
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-10-23T20:05:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/fracking-will-support-1-7-million-jobs-study-shows.html
Drilling for oil and natural gas in
shale rock is supporting 1.7 million U.S. jobs this year,
including workers outside the  energy industry  such as waiters
and shop clerks, according to researcher  IHS Global Insight .  Job tied to unconventional oil and gas production will
reach 3.5 million by 2035, according to the  report  backed by the
industry and released today. Because U.S. unemployment is high,
many finding jobs related to drilling otherwise would be
unemployed, said John Larson, a vice president at IHS and the
study’s lead author.  The IHS report was funded by groups such as the  American
Petroleum Institute  and the Natural Gas Supply Association. In
January, President  Barack Obama  cited an earlier IHS study that
predicted drilling for shale gas alone would create more than
600,000 jobs by the end of the decade.  “We look at this in the near term, and we believe that
many of these jobs really are net new jobs because these
individuals would not be able to find employment elsewhere,”
Larson said on a conference call. “These jobs tend to be higher
paying.”  Shale oil and gas is freed by hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, in which millions of gallons of chemically treated
water and sand are forced underground to shatter rock and allow
the fuel to flow. Critics have cited potential risks to ground
water and  air quality . The U.S.  Environmental Protection Agency 
is conducting a study of the impacts of fracking on water.  Rigs, Pipes  About 80 percent of jobs will be on rigs or at companies
supplying drillers, such as pipe manufacturers. The rest will be
“induced” jobs in other businesses, such as restaurants,
hotels and shops. This year, the drilling industry will support
about 360,000 direct jobs, 537,000 jobs in supplying industries
and more than 850,000 jobs outside the industry, according to
the report.  The forecasts assume current regulations on fracking will
remain unchanged, according to the report.  Job growth among oil producers reflects  capital costs  to
tap into shale rock. From this year until 2035, more than $5.1
trillion will be invested to produce unconventional oil and gas,
according to the report.  Federal, state and local taxes will increase more than $111
billion in 2020 from $62 billion this year.  “We’re talking about what we perceive as a game changer in
energy production for the  United States ,” Larson said. “It’s a
really rapid rise and a dramatic shift.”  Doubling Demand  Forecasts in the report are based on IHS projections of oil
and gas production. The report assumes demand for natural gas to
generate electricity will more than double from now through
2035, and that U.S. exports of natural gas will reach about 4.3
billion cubic feet a day by 2020.  “We have a very, very detailed, bottom-up, build on a
play-by-play basis around all this activity,” Larson said.
“What you’re seeing here does not represent all resources. It
only represents those resources brought to market as a
commercially viable productive frontier given the market prices
that we see.”  In his January  State of the Union  address, Obama said
fracking could support more than 600,000 jobs by the end of the
decade. Larson said he was “comfortable with the accuracy” of
that forecast based on state and national employment data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in  New York  at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  