-- French Business Confidence Declines to Three-Year Low
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-10-23T06:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/french-business-confidence-declines-to-three-year-low.html
French  industrial confidence  fell to
the lowest in more than three years as a lack of economic growth
in euro-area countries weighed on exports and looming tax
increases damped domestic demand.  Sentiment among factory executives declined to 85 in
October, the lowest since August 2009, from 90 last month,
national statistics office Insee in Paris said in a statement
today. Economists had expected a reading of 90, according to the
median of 15 forecasts gathered by  Bloomberg News .  Germany , Europe’s largest economy and  France ’s biggest
trading partner, may shrink in the current quarter, the
Bundesbank said yesterday as at least five other euro-area
economies remained mired in recession. The  International
Monetary Fund  cut its world growth forecast this month and said
there is an “alarmingly high” risk of a steeper slowdown.  “Globally the situation is not good and it’s getting worse
in France’s main trading partners,” said  Dominique Barbet , an
economist at BNP Paribas in Paris. “At the same time you have
fiscal tightening in France. This is not the time to invest.”  The French economy has failed to expand for the past three
quarters and Insee predicts no growth in the second half of
2012. Having promised to cut the deficit to 3 percent of gross
domestic product next year, President  Francois Hollande ’s
government is planning to raise corporate taxes by 10 billion
euros ($13 billion) in 2013.  Hollande, who was elected on an anti-austerity platform, is
banking on higher taxes for two-thirds of the 30 billion euros
he needs to raise to meet his budget-deficit target for next
year and avoid the soaring borrowing costs in countries such as
Spain and Italy. His government is trimming tax relief on
interest charges and raising corporate taxes in addition to
increased levies on top earners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  