-- French Grain Producers Set Up a Fund to Aid Livestock Breeders
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-23T16:16:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/french-grain-producers-set-up-a-fund-to-aid-livestock-breeders.html
France ’s grain-grower organizations
set up a fund to provide financing to modernize the country’s
livestock industry.  The fund will be based on voluntary contributions by grain
growers, Philippe Pinta, the head of the French association of
wheat producers, said at a press conference in Paris today. The
four organizations behind the initiative are proposing a
contribution of 2 euros ($2.59) for every metric ton of grain
sold in the 2012-13 season.  “The goal is to help the producers in order to help the
industry,” Pinta said.  France’s livestock breeders consume a third of the
country’s wheat production, 50 percent of French corn and 60
percent of its barley, according to a presentation by the grain-
producer groups.  The goal of the fund is to provide subsidies to help
livestock breeders modernize their business, for example by
investing in renewable energy for buildings and improving animal
genetics, according to Pinta.  French livestock breeders have become less competitive
compared to those in neighboring countries, resulting in falling
investment for example in the pork industry, according to the
grain growers.  The meat industry’s negotiating clout with retailers is
weaker in France than in other countries, according to a
statement handed out by the groups at the press conference. The
industry has been weakened by falling prices and increased feed
costs, the grain producers wrote.  Poultry production in France fell 17 percent between 2000
and 2011, and pig slaughter dropped 14 percent, according to the
grain growers. At the same time, poultry and pig output rose in
Germany and  Spain , they said.  The fund was set up by the Association Generale des
Producteurs de Ble, the Association Generale des Producteurs de
Mais, Coop de France and the Federation du Negoce Agricole.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  