-- Gazprom Taps Yamal Gas to Supply Europe as Siberian Output Wanes
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-10-23T14:21:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/gazprom-taps-yamal-gas-to-supply-europe-as-siberian-output-wanes.html
OAO Gazprom (OGZD)  started pumping natural
gas on the Arctic Yamal Peninsula, a  province  estimated to hold
enough fuel to meet global demand for five years, as the company
seeks to replace waning output at aging west Siberian fields.  The Russian gas exporter began output at the Bovanenkovo
deposit, the biggest on the peninsula with 4.9 trillion cubic
meters in reserves. The province has 16 trillion cubic meters.  “Russia really showed today that it is unmatched in the
Arctic,” Alexey Miller, chief executive officer of the state-
run company, said at an opening ceremony at the field. “The
Yamal project is unprecedented in the world gas industry.”  President Vladimir Putin said by video link the region may
produce 340 billion to 360 billion cubic meters of gas a year by
2030. That compares with total Gazprom production of 513 billion
cubic meters last year, mainly from west Siberian fields where
production has begun to dwindle. By adding volume, Gazprom
reduces the risk of supply shortages to  Europe  after failing to
meet calls for higher shipments last winter during a cold snap.  Siberia’s Nadym-Purtaz area now produces about 400 billion
cubic meters a year, or about 78 percent of the company’s total
output. Declining production rates will lower that to about 300
billion cubic meters by 2015 and 230 billion by 2020, Vsevolod Cherepanov, head of Gazprom’s production division, said in May.  Bovanenkovo will pump 115 billion cubic meters of gas
annually by 2017, rising to 140 billion cubic meters, Miller
said. It will produce 46 billion cubic meters of gas next year.  Putin, speaking today at an Energy Commission meeting at
his residence outside of Moscow, ordered Gazprom to adjust its
export strategy as demand grows in Asia and the company faces
increased competition, including from the “shale revolution.”  Growth in production of gas from shale formations, in the
U.S. particularly, has pushed down global prices for the fuel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  