-- German Billionaire Schwarz Seen Having Tax-Exempt Fortune
-- B y   D a v i d   d e   J o n g   a n d   R o b e r t   L a F r a n c o
-- 2012-10-23T23:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/german-billionaire-schwarz-seen-having-tax-exempt-fortune.html
On a recent Saturday afternoon at a
Lidl supermarket in  London , a 500-gram slab of minced beef was
on sale for 2 pounds ($3.21), half the price of the same product
at a Sainsbury Local store a few blocks away.  Offering such bargains has made Dieter Schwarz a very rich
man. Through his Neckarsulm, Germany-based Schwarz Group, the
73-year-old billionaire controls more than 9,800 Lidl
supermarkets and 1,070 Kaufland discount stores in 26 European
countries. The operation generated 63.4 billion euros ($82.3
billion) in sales last year, making it the largest closely held
food retailer in  Europe . Schwarz, the 34th richest person in the
world, is worth $19.3 billion, according to the  Bloomberg
Billionaires Index .  Schwarz controls his discount empire through the Dieter
Schwarz Stiftung gGmbH, a tax-exempt entity designated as a
gemeinnuetzige Gesellschaft mit beschraenkter Haftung, or
limited liability company with a charitable purpose.  “There are about 19,000 foundations that hold more than
100 million euros in  Germany ,” said Stefan Stolte, a lawyer
with DSZ-MAECENATA Management GmbH, a Munich-based stiftung
advisory firm. “There are far fewer that are established as a
gGmbH. Both concepts are legitimate, but the use of the Schwarz
model -- where little is going into the public benefit -- is
looked upon very critically.”  A gGmbH is often used to protect against hostile takeovers
or family members selling the company. Like all charitable
foundations in Germany, it can also be used to fund sports teams
and political activities. In addition, gGmbHs aren’t subject to
many aspects of civil law regulation and, in rare instances, can
even have their tax-exempt status removed altogether.  Legitimate Concepts  Stolte estimates there are 100 to 300 gGmbHs in Germany.
Four of the country’s 10 richest people hold at least part of
their fortunes through the structure: Schwarz and the three co-
founders of Walldorf, Germany-based  SAP AG (SAP) , the world’s largest
maker of business-management software.  Schwarz transferred his shares in Lidl and Kaufland into
the Dieter Schwarz Stiftung in 1999, “to secure the existence
of the company,” said Gertrud Bott, a company spokeswoman, in
an e-mail. Schwarz no longer owns the shares, the gGmbH does,
she said. He is credited with the fortune because he controls
the shares owned by the gGmbH, according to the ranking. He
declined to comment for this account.  0.2 Percent  According to filings with the German government, the
Schwarz gGmbH donated almost 70 million euros from 2008 to 2010
to charitable causes, including a science center and a
university campus in Heilbronn, a city in southwest Germany
where he became an honorary citizen in 2007, and where he lives
with his wife, Franziska.  Bott said the gGmbH has more than 30 million euros
designated for charitable giving. That sum is about 0.2 percent
of Schwarz’s net worth, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In Germany, a traditional stiftung is governed under German
civil law and receives tax-exempt status by the local tax
authority under German fiscal code. A gGmbH is formed under
German commercial statutes, offers its creators greater funding
flexibility and is not required to preserve its assets, said
Anna Katharina Gollan, a legal and tax adviser at the Berlin-
based  law firm ,  Pollath & Partners .  Public Benefit  Voting shareholders of a gGmbH can also change the causes
it funds and have the ability to dissolve the entity and
transfer its assets into another tax-exempt structure. Gollan
said she knew of at least one case of a gGmbH eliminating its
tax-exempt status.  There is no legal precedent of dissolving a gGmbH to fund
commercial pursuits. Any attempt to do so, Stolte said, would
result in the need for the founder to pay retroactive income,
gift, inheritance and value-added taxes.  Traditional foundations and gGmbHs in Germany don’t have
minimum annual giving requirements. They are required to spend
any profits by the end of the fiscal year it was accrued, and
are allowed to build capital reserves totaling 10 percent of
annual donations or 33 percent of dividends received.  In Europe, there are several varieties of stiftungs, which
are the equivalent of foundations or trusts in the U.S. In
Liechtenstein and  Austria , the structure exists to keep assets
from flowing to other countries, Stolte said.  To achieve tax-exempt status under the fiscal code, both
forms of German foundations need to show intent to pursue
activities that benefit the public and their ability to execute
on those goals. Similar to the U.S. tax code, any assets pledged
to the foundation must be pledged irrevocably, said Stolte.  ‘Schwarzmarkt’  Schwarz’s father, Josef, got his start in retail in the
1930s, when he and a partner created what became grocer  Lidl &
Schwarz  KG; their store was destroyed in World War II, according
to the  Kaufland website .  Schwarz’s partner left the company in 1951. Dieter Schwarz
joined the family business after finishing high school, and
struck out on his own more than two decades later, opening the
first Lidl discount store in Ludwigshafen, Germany, in 1973.  To avoid using “Schwarzmarkt,” which means black market
in German, Schwarz purchased the rights to the Lidl name for
1,000 Deutsche Mark, about $500 at the time, according to the
company. Schwarz modeled his Lidl stores after the discount
supermarkets Aldi Sued and Aldi Nord, which sell a limited
assortment of goods at low prices. Aldi Sued is owned by  Karl
Albrecht , Germany’s richest man.  Split Empire  Schwarz inherited his father’s stores after he died in
1977. He opened the first Kaufland hypermarket -- similar to a
Wal-Mart store in the U.S. in size and prices -- in Neckarsulm
seven years later. The Schwarz Group opened the first Lidl
stores outside Germany in 1988.  Schwarz stepped down from day-to-day management and split
his retail empire in 1999. According to an organizational chart
provided by Bott, 99.9 percent of Schwarz’s economic interests
in Lidl and Kaufland were transferred to the Dieter Schwarz
Stiftung gGmbH, while all of the companies’ voting rights went
to the Schwarz Unternehmenstreuhand KG, a Neckarsulm-based
decision-making body, also known as the SUT.  The structure separates economic and operational control,
according to Dr. Hedda Hoffmann-Steudner, the head of the legal
department at Berlin-based Bundesverband Deutscher Stiftungen.
The legal construct became popular in the 1990s to safeguard
companies from hostile takeovers and family members who might
sell them after their founder died.  ’Neutral Hands’  “Dieter Schwarz chose it because he wanted to keep his
whole company in neutral hands,” said Hoffmann-Steudner. “If
he dies, the whole complex of the two companies can continue
without being centered on him as the main leader.”  The SUT’s eight board members, headed by Klaus Gehrig,
control the Schwarz Group’s business decisions. The gGmbH has
six voting shareholders who preside over the entity’s charitable
activities.  Three years before the company’s restructuring, Schwarz
gave power of attorney over his fortune to Hermann-Josef
Hoffmann, according to a 1996 notarized document. Hoffmann, 56,
represents the Dieter Schwarz TV-Vermoegensverwaltung GmbH --
Schwarz’s asset management vehicle -- on the boards of the gGmbH
and the SUT. It is “responsible for the execution of the will
and becomes operative after the death of Dieter Schwarz,”
according to Bott.  No Minimum  Decisions regarding control over the gGmbH cannot be made
without Hoffmann’s consent, according to its statute and
shareholders list. Schwarz is also on the gGmbH’s board,
representing another stiftung that carries his name. Unlike the
gGmbH, this entity does not have a charitable designation.  Schwarz is an honorary member of the SUT and has veto power
over its investments. The SUT decides how much money goes to the
gGmbH, according to Bott. It can also determine how much Schwarz
gets paid. The company didn’t respond to questions sent in an e-
mail from  Bloomberg News  regarding Schwarz’s compensation.  There’s no legal minimum amount that an operating company
is required to distribute to the gGmbH, according to Hoffmann-
Steudner. Bott declined to comment on how much money the SUT has
given to the gGmbH since 1999.  The fact that there is no minimum-giving requirement could
lead to people abusing gGmbHs, Hoffmann-Steudner said. She
advocates that donations to a gGmbH should be proportional to a
company’s profitability.  ’Ethical Problem’  “There was some discussion about whether or not these
kinds of foundations were legal at all,” said Stolte. “They
are legal, but I think there is an ethical problem when you have
this foundation that is seen as providing a public benefit but
in legal form it is really established to protect the company
from takeover and inheritance taxes.”  Klaus Tschira, 71, who founded SAP in 1972 along with four
other partners, including billionaires  Hasso Plattner , 68, and
Dietmar Hopp, 72, gave the majority of his stake in the company
to the Klaus Tschira Stiftung in 1995. The Heidelberg-based
gGmbH has donated about 200 million euros to science, math and
technology causes since its inception, according to its
spokeswoman, Renate Ries.  According to a February 2011  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, Tschira controls the  voting
rights  as well as dispositive powers over the SAP shares that
are held by his gGmbH foundation. Tschira said he doesn’t own
the SAP shares he pledged to his foundation, and that they will
remain designated for public benefit.  ’Dance Band’  Plattner and Hopp also hold shares in gGmbHs. In 1996,
Plattner, Hopp and another founding partner, Hans-Werner Hector,
transferred 38 percent of their holdings into foundations
established by each and a trust managed by Hector. Reports at
the time stated that the move was aimed at maintaining the
company’s independence “beyond the generation of its
founders.”  In an October 5 e-mail to Bloomberg News, Tschira said
there are various ways a gGmbH might fund charitable causes
under German law.  “The list of tax-exempt purposes is indeed long, but that
does not mean a stiftung may pursue any of them at will,” he
said in an e-mail. “If you claim to fund art, it’s OK to pay an
artist or an orchestra but it would most probably be not allowed
to fund a dance band. Likewise, political education is OK -- you
could even agitate against the neo-Nazis under the cover of
education for democracy, but funding specific parties would not
be allowable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David  De Jong  in  New York  at 
 ddejong3@bloomberg.net ;
Robert LaFranco in London at 
 rlafranco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  