-- German Business Confidence May Rise on ECB Bond-Buy Plan
-- B y   S t e f a n   R i e c h e r
-- 2012-10-23T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/german-business-confidence-may-rise-on-ecb-bond-buy-plan.html
German business confidence probably
climbed for the first time in seven months in October as the
 European Central Bank ’s plan to buy  government bonds  eased
concern about the region’s debt crisis.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, will rise to 101.6 from 101.4 in
September, according to the median forecast of 39 economists in
a  Bloomberg News survey . Ifo releases the report at 10 a.m. in
Munich today.  Financial markets have rallied since ECB President  Mario Draghi  pledged to do whatever is needed to preserve the euro and
unveiled a plan to buy government bonds. German investor
confidence gained for a second month in October. Still, Europe’s
largest economy may shrink in the fourth quarter as euro-area
and global demand for its exports wanes, the Bundesbank said on
Oct. 22.  “Business confidence in  Germany  and in Europe is supported
by the ECB,” said Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  London . “Even if there is some uncertainty at
the moment, Germany’s economy should be back to growth in the
first half of next year.”  Ifo’s measure of executives’ expectations probably rose to
93.6 from 93.2 in September, while a gauge of the current
situation may have slipped to 110 from 110.3, the survey shows.  Expected Slowdown  While exports to faster-growing markets outside  Europe  and
domestic spending have helped insulate Germany from the turmoil
in the euro area, the debt crisis is leaving its mark.  Growth slowed to 0.3 percent in the second quarter from 0.5
percent in the first. “There are increasing signs that a
perceptible expansion of economic growth in the third quarter of
2012 will be followed by stagnation or even a slight decrease in
gross domestic product in the final quarter of the year,” the
Bundesbank said in its monthly report.  At least five of the 17 euro-area nations are in recession,
including Spain and Italy. Spain’s economy shrank 0.4 percent in
the three months through September, the Bank of  Spain  said
yesterday, the fifth straight quarterly contraction.  German truckmaker MAN SE said on Oct. 12 that next year
will be even tougher than 2012 after third-quarter orders
slumped. The Munich-based company lowered its 2012 earnings
forecast in July as weaker demand in  Brazil  added to woes in
Europe.  Still, the benchmark  DAX share index  has rallied 9 percent
since Draghi pledged on July 26 to do whatever it takes to
preserve the euro.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, the world’s largest maker of
 luxury vehicles , will invest 200 million euros ($259 million) in
a Brazil factory to boost sales, it said on Oct. 22. The
company’s global nine-month sales through September increased
8.6 percent to 1.11 million vehicles.  “The ECB’s announcement is a game changer for the entire
euro zone,” said Frederik Ducrozet, senior euro-area economist
at  Credit Agricole  in Paris. “There is a time lag, however. The
real economy in the euro area and in Germany might deteriorate
in the short term.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Riecher in Frankfurt at 
 sriecher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  