-- Giant Taj Mahal Can’t Hide Dubai’s Weak Real Estate Market
-- B y   Z a i n a b   F a t t a h
-- 2012-10-24T07:53:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/giant-taj-mahal-can-t-hide-weakness-of-dubai-s-property-market.html
Dubai proclaimed its real estate
comeback in the only style it knows: grandiose.  A replica of the  Taj Mahal  about four times bigger than the
original, a skyscraper with nine swimming pools and a mile-long
canal winding its way around office buildings are among the
high-profile projects unveiled in the past few weeks. The plans
had been on hold since the financial crisis brought the
emirate’s property boom to a halt in 2008.  The eye-catching developments may be creating a buzz. In
reality, the nascent recovery has been limited to a few areas of
Dubai, which suffered a slump that caused property values across
the emirate to fall by as much as 65 percent. About a quarter of
Dubai’s residential properties are empty and an additional
25,000 are due to be completed next year as developers fulfill
contracts awarded before the crash,  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. 
estimates.  “The market has improved to some extent, but there isn’t
enough to justify going ahead with all the projects that are now
being talked about,” said Craig Plumb, head of research for the
 Middle East  at the Chicago-based property broker. “They should
be phased over a longer period and should be built in line with
demand.”  About a third of the  office space  in Dubai’s central
business district is unoccupied and the vacancy rate is much
higher in other neighborhoods, Jones Lang said. About 900,000
square meters (9.7 million square feet) will be added in 2013,
according to the firm. That’s 13 percent of the existing space.  Mega Projects  Some of the developments announced earlier this month at
Cityscape Global, Dubai’s biggest annual property conference,
were reminiscent of pre-crash projects like Burj Khalifa, the
world’s tallest tower, and an indoor ski slope at the Mall of
the Emirates.  Meydan City Corp., the company that built Dubai’s 60,000-
seat  horseracing stadium  and hotel complex, said at Cityscape
that it will revive a plan to create a development featuring
lagoons, canals and parks as well as a skyscraper with pools and
“sky gardens.” The government also approved the construction
of a canal that would connect the Business Bay area to the sea.  The Taj Arabia complex, based on India’s 17th-century Taj
Mahal mausoleum, will be built by Link Global Ltd. for about 1.3
billion dirhams ($350 million), the Dubai-based company said at
the three-day trade fair. Chairman Arun Mehra declined to say
how Link Global will finance the construction of the Taj Arabia,
which will include a 300-room luxury hotel.  Abandoned Plans  As those projects get a new lease of life, many more sit
abandoned in the desert or in the Persian Gulf.  Taj Arabia was designed to be part of the  Falconcity of
Wonders , a 41 million-square-foot complex of homes, offices,
hotels and stores along the Emirates Ring Road that links Dubai
to the United Arab Emirates’ six other sheikdoms. That project,
featuring attractions including replicas of the Pyramids, the
Great Wall of  China , the Eiffel tower and the leaning tower of
Pisa, was derailed by the collapse of the real estate market.  Salem Al Moosa, chairman of the Falconcity project, said
underground work including electricity, water and sewage
infrastructure has been completed and the company has sold parts
of the site to developers that will realize the company’s plans.  Of the three palm-shaped artificial islands planned by
Nakheel PJSC, only one -- the Palm Jumeirah -- has been
developed, with a combination of hotels and residences. The
World, a chain of islands off Dubai’s coast that look like a
world map, was created by Nakheel in 2008, though the
archipelago has yet to be developed. No one at the company was
available to comment on the project.  Dubailand Project  In all, about $757 billion of projects were delayed or
aborted in the U.A.E. since the collapse of Lehman Brothers
International Inc. in 2008 sparked the global financial crisis,
Citigroup said in a report Oct. 16. That’s more than the
projects that were canceled in Egypt,  Iraq ,  Kuwait ,  Saudi Arabia 
and Qatar combined, Citigroup said.  Dubailand, an entertainment complex designed to be three
times the size of  Manhattan , is another project that was put on
hold. Dubai Properties Group didn’t respond to questions seeking
comment on the project.  Dubai’s real estate market is showing some signs of
recovery after almost four years of falling prices. The number
of property transactions jumped by 50 percent in the first half
of 2012 compared with a year earlier, data from Dubai’s Land
Department show. The purchases, valued at 12 billion dirhams,
are still 74 percent less than the 46.5 billion dirhams of sales
in the first half of 2008. The Land Department doesn’t break
down its data into different types of real estate.  Gyms, Pools  So far, most of the growth has been along Sheikh Zayed
Road, the longest in the U.A.E., where facilities such as gyms,
pools and landscaped areas have been completed. The biggest
beneficiary has been  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , whose developments
include the downtown area around its Burj Khalifa tower, the
world’s tallest building, and collections of prime single-family
homes known as villa communities such as Arabian Ranches.  Emirates Hills, another villa development, as well as
Downtown and Dubai Marina accounted for most of this year’s
property deals, data provided by Dubai’s Land Department show.  The improving demand “isn’t sustainable without steady
population growth and job creation in addition to a financing
pick-up,” said  Saud Masud , chief executive officer of SM
Advisory Group LLC, a New York-based investment firm. “The
oversupply issue will probably not be resolved for perhaps
another decade, but pockets of  price stability  may remain.”  Limited Options  Most of the demand is coming from India, Pakistan and Iran,
where concern about the European crisis left investors with few
alternatives, said Jan Pawel Hasman, an analyst at EFG-Hermes 
Holding SAE in Cairo. “The question is: how sustainable is it?” 
he said.  Other buyers are looking for a haven from the political
turmoil that toppled leaders in Tunisia, Egypt and Yemen, 
Hasman said.  Prices of residential properties in the best locations,
such as the downtown area and the marina, have risen about 15
percent this year. Villas, which account for about 20 percent of
the homes on the market, are in higher demand than other type of
residences, said Amer Khan, a  fund manager  at the asset-
management division of  Shuaa Capital PSC. (SHUAA)   Selective Demand  “This demand is very different from what we saw four years
ago,” Khan said. “This time it’s a lot more selective.”  Emaar, which sold more than 500 serviced apartments in a
tower near  Burj Khalifa  last month, required buyers to pay 20
percent of the value before taking legal ownership.  “New regulations in Dubai after the real estate boom are
aimed at limiting speculation and Emaar’s move was in line with
this,” Hasman said. “Rules concerning escrow accounts and
management of project cash flows by developers could help
prevent the creation of another real estate bubble.”  Emaar is one of the few developers in Dubai that is able to
sell properties before they’re built, a model that dominated the
market before the 2008 crash. The company had comparatively few
uncompleted projects at that time and has since been finishing
them. That isn’t the case for most of Dubai’s developers. Many
shifted buyers from suspended projects to ones closer to
completion. Others continue to hold on to cash paid by clients
as developments remain half built and court disputes drag on.  The focus on projects where demand is increasing can be
misleading, Plumb of  Jones Lang  said. As developers complete
facilities in projects considered undesirable now, demand can
shift and affect prices across Dubai, he said.  “It’s not possible to discount parts of the market as all
locations are interrelated and there will eventually be a
trickling up or down in demand and prices between different
areas,” he said.  Debt Burden  Dubai’s default risk has dropped over the past three years
as debt restructuring, bond repayments and rising corporate
profits boost confidence in its economic rebound. Still, the
emirate is weighed down by the $113 billion of debt it racked up
transforming itself into a tourism and commercial hub.  About $15 billion of the debt matures this year, the
 International Monetary Fund  estimated in June. Abu Dhabi’s
government and two of its banks as well as the U.A.E.’s central
bank provided $20 billion to Dubai in 2009 to help state-owned
companies restructure debt.  Dubai’s  property market  had one of the world’s biggest
reversals following the global credit crisis in 2008. Nakheel
wrote down the value of its real estate by $21 billion from late
2008 through mid-2010 and received an $8.6 billion bailout from
Dubai’s government, helping the company to avoid default after
cutting jobs and halted projects.  Emaar Disappoints  Union Properties PJSC (UPP) , another Dubai developer, reported
losses for 10 out of 15 quarters since Sept. 2008, while
Limitless LLC, a government-owned property company, put on hold
all its projects including ones in Saudi Arabia and Russia.  Emaar hasn’t escaped the crisis either. Yesterday, the
company said third-quarter earnings dropped 4.7 percent, missing
analysts’ estimates, after revenue declined.  A shortage of development finance may end up saving Dubai
real estate from the exuberance of developers. In January,
Nakheel announced plans for The Pointe at Palm Jumeirah, a
retail development that would be its first new project on the
island since the company bailed out in 2009. At the time,
Nakheel said it was in talks with banks to raise at least 300
million dirhams ($82 million) for the project. No loan agreement
has since been announced. Financing for the project is in
progress, the company said by e-mail last week.  ‘Cautious Lenders’  “Funding for many of these projects will be very difficult
and may never come,” Jones Lang’s Plumb said. “People are
still wary and that will probably reduce the level of actual
completions, which is a positive for the overall market.”  Lending to developers reached 102 billion dirhams by the
end of the first quarter, a 3 percent increase from the same
period last year, said Shabbir Malik, a Dubai-based analyst at
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE.  “That’s very weak and shows that lenders remain
cautious,” Malik said. “They want to ensure borrowers can
repay and they don’t seem to buy into the cash flows claimed by
developers.”  Regulations on liquidity that will go into effect next year
are also likely to hinder lending, he said. The U.A.E. central
bank said April 4 that banks must not lend more than 100 percent
of their capital to local governments and the same amount to
government-related entities to help reduce risk. There was no
limit under previous rules.  As emerging-market economies from China to  Brazil  slow, the
property market faces a risk from the third major brake on
expansion in five years.  “While a global recovery may add liquidity and in theory
support prices, there is still a significant risk in the region,
which may negatively impact direct investment,” Masud said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zainab Fattah in Dubai on 
 zfattah@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 