-- Giants Top Cardinals 9-0 to Reach World Series Versus Tigers
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-10-23T05:21:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/giants-top-cardinals-9-0-to-reach-mlb-world-series-versus-tigers.html
The  San Francisco Giants , who lost
their best reliever and top hitter during the season, completed
the comeback from a two-game deficit by beating the St. Louis
Cardinals 9-0 in a decisive Game 7 to reach the World Series for
the second time in three seasons.  The Giants, who won  Major League Baseball ’s championship in
2010, will face the  Detroit Tigers  in the best-of-seven World
Series beginning tomorrow at AT&T Park in  San Francisco .  Giants second baseman  Marco Scutaro , selected as the series
Most Valuable Player after batting .500, opened his mouth wide
to catch raindrops in the final inning and then got drenched
with champagne in the victorious clubhouse.  “When things are going good, you’ve got to enjoy it, this
is what you dream of,” the 36-year-old Scutaro said in an
interview while wearing oversized goggles to keep champagne out
of his eyes. “Guys play 15 years in the big leagues and never
have a chance to play in the  World Series .”  The early odds at Las Vegas sportsbooks suggest the Tigers
have a 60 percent chance of winning the World Series, said RJ
Bell, president of handicapping information website Pregame.com.
 Detroit  is a -160 money line favorite, meaning a winning $160
wager would return $100. The Giants opened at +140, so a winning
$100 bet would yield a $140 profit.  The Giants trailed 3-1 in the National League Championship
Series before winning the final three games against St. Louis.
In the previous playoff round, San Francisco fell behind 2-0
before winning the last three games on the road to beat the
 Cincinnati Reds  in a best-of-five division series.  Missing Players  San Francisco played most of the season without relief
pitcher Brian “The Beard” Wilson, who had 84 saves over the
previous two seasons and got into only two games this year
before having elbow surgery in April. Melky Cabrera was leading
the NL in hitting when he was suspended for 50 games on Aug. 15
for using the banned muscle builder testosterone.  “We’ve been unbelievable in not giving up,” Giants
outfielder  Angel Pagan  said. “That’s been the key for us and we
showed it in both series.”  The Giants had never won in five previous tries in Game 7
of a postseason series. It was the first seventh game in San
Francisco since the 1962 World Series, when the  New York  Yankees
defeated the Giants 1-0 at  Candlestick Park .  ‘Heart, Determination’  “They played with more heart and more determination than
any club I’ve ever seen,” Giants manager Bruce Bochy said in an
onfield post-game celebration as heavy rain soaked players
taking a victorious lap around the field. “They’ve been
relentless. They didn’t want to go home and had a never-say-die
attitude.”  The Tigers reached the World Series by sweeping all four
games against the Yankees in the American League Championship
Series.  Though the Giants will be in their 19th World Series and
the Tigers will be making their 11th appearance, this will be
the first time they’ve met in the championship round that began
in 1903.  Matt Cain , who threw a perfect game in June, got the win
last night by allowing five hits in 5 2/3 scoreless innings.
Scutaro, who was obtained in a July 27 trade from the  Colorado
Rockies , went 3-for-4 with a walk.  The last two innings were played in a heavy rainstorm.  “It was weird, it never rains here,” said Scutaro, who
played for the neighboring Oakland Athletics in 2004-07 after
starting his career with the  New York Mets .  Five-Run Third  The Giants took the lead in the first on a run-scoring
groundout by Pablo Sandoval and added another in the second on a
run-scoring single by Cain.  Hunter Pence  broke his bat as he hit
a two-run double in San Francisco’s five-run third, an inning in
which the Giants sent 11 men to the plate. The eighth run scored
in the seventh inning on a double-play grounder and Brandon Belt
hit a solo home run in the eighth.  The Cardinals, who won the 2011 World Series, were trying
to become the first team to win back-to-back titles since the
Yankees won three straight in 1998-2000.  St. Louis  had won its six previous winner-takes-all
postseason games, tying the longest streak in MLB history.  “It’s about the team that’s hot, and we went on a cold
streak,” Cardinals manager Mike Matheny said in a news
conference. “We got to this point by being that team that was
hot and taking advantage of opportunities. But we just couldn’t
make it happen these last two games.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  