-- Gold Fields Denies Report Deal Won It Political Influence
-- B y   A n t o n y   S g u a z z i n
-- 2012-10-23T13:19:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/gold-fields-denies-report-deal-won-it-political-influence.html
Gold Fields Ltd. (GFI)  denied a news
report that one of its black economic empowerment deals
benefited influential people who helped it win a license needed
to continue operating the South Deep mine in  South Africa .  Carte Blanche, a Johannesburg-based news program,  reported 
on Oct. 21 that the 201O deal, designed to give black  South
Africans  a stake in the South Deep mine near Johannesburg,
benefited Kenny Kunene and Gayton McKenzie, both of whom have
spent time in jail. The daughter of a politician who served on a
parliamentary committee overseeing the  mining industry  and
Jerome Brauns, a lawyer who defended President  Jacob Zuma  in a
rape trial, also gained from it, the program said.  The program “alleged that Gayton McKenzie and Jerome
Brauns used their political influence to place politically-
connected individuals in the black economic empowerment
consortium to influence the awarding of the license,” Gold
Fields said yesterday in a statement on its website. “It is
critical to note that the South Deep license was awarded before
the participants in the BEE consortium were finalized.”  In 2010 Gold Fields said it would sell 10.75 percent of its
South African operations to its employees at a cost to
shareholders of almost 1 billion rand ($114 million). It also
agreed to issue 600,000 shares to a black-owned shareholder
group and allowed it to buy 10 percent of South Deep.  South African law requires mining companies to sell at
least 26 percent of their local operations to black citizens
with transactions that benefit workers, communities near mines
and trusts for the poor favored.  Ruthless, Fraud  While the Gold Fields transaction also benefited workers,
Carte Blanche said other shareholders will gain more. The
company said its 47,100 employees received shares under the
transaction without paying for them and that they have received
so far 76 million rand in dividends.  “The program was filled with inaccuracies and innuendo and
sought to discredit what has broadly been welcomed as a ground-
breaking transaction,” Gold Fields said.  McKenzie, a former bank robber, said on the program that
Johannesburg-based Gold Fields asked him to find participants
for the transaction. He described himself as a former leader of
a prison gang and as “ruthless.”  Kenny Kunene, who also spoke on the program, said he had
“specialized in fraud” before he was convicted and later
became a businessman.  Carte Blanche also showed company documents, which it said
proved the motivation for including some of the alleged
beneficiaries in the deal.  Car, Nightclub  The program also interviewed alleged beneficiaries
including a young woman who said she bought a car with the
proceeds from the deal that she knew little about.  McKenzie’s mother-in-law confirmed that she had
participated in the deal, while the manager of McKenzie and
Kunene’s ZAR nightclub was also named as a beneficiary.  “Gayton McKenzie Pty Ltd. was contracted in an advisory
capacity for a number of issues including to compile a list of
potential participants that fell within the broad categories of
beneficiaries from which we could select,” Gold Fields said.
“The final decision about the participants was always the
prerogative of the company, and not limited to this pool.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Antony Sguazzin in Johannesburg at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  