-- Goldman ‘Never Seriously’ Looked at Selling Commodities Unit
-- B y   C l a u d i a   C a r p e n t e r   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-10-23T12:14:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/goldman-never-seriously-looked-at-selling-commodities-unit-1-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , the fifth-
biggest U.S. bank by assets, “never seriously” looked at
selling its commodities unit as lenders consider their options
amid new rules on proprietary trading.  “While we constantly evaluate all our businesses, senior
management never seriously looked at spinning out all or part of
our commodity business,” Sophie Bullock, a spokeswoman for the
bank in London, said in a statement today.  The Volcker rule may cut profit at the biggest U.S. banks
twice as much as earlier estimates if regulators take a strict
stance on limiting proprietary trading, Standard & Poor’s said
yesterday. Qatar is weighing a potential stake in Morgan
Stanley’s commodities unit, Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad bin
Jassim Al Thani said last week.  “It seems banks are restructuring or in some cases
curtailing their activities in light of the Volcker rule while
others haven’t made any changes,” said Robert Finney, a partner
at Holman Fenwick Willan LLP in London who specializes in
financial services and regulation. “The extra-territorial
application that would extend the rule to non-U.S. institutions
as well as non-U.S. branches and affiliates of U.S. banks
remains uncertain, as does the interaction with new capital and
liquidity rules under Basel III. Many institutions hope the rule
will be watered down after the U.S. elections.”  Hedging Impaired  The Volcker rule would impair banks’ ability to provide
commodity-related hedging and financing services as currently
written,  Simon Greenshields , co-head of Morgan Stanley’s
commodities, said in a comment letter to regulators in February.  Revenue generated by the 10 largest banks’ commodity units
slumped 20 percent in the first six months this year to $3.5
billion from $4.4 billion a year earlier, according to
Coalition, a London-based research company. Their overall fixed
income revenue dropped 1.1 percent to $51.49 billion, it said.  Goldman’s revenue from fixed-income, currency and commodity
trading climbed 28 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier to $2.22 billion, it said on Oct. 16. Its value-at-risk,
a measure of the company’s potential daily trading losses, fell
to $81 million, the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2005.  “Commodities and currencies were both negatively impacted
by continued low levels of volatility and volumes,” Harvey Schwartz, who will become chief financial officer at the end of
January, said on a conference call with analysts that day.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities erased
gains for the year today, after climbing the past three years.  The Wall Street Journal today reported that Goldman Sachs
held preliminary talks on splitting off its commodities trading
unit in recent years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Carpenter in  London  at 
 ccarpenter2@abloomberg.net ;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in  Singapore  at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter@bloomberg.net  