-- Gordhan to Widen South Africa Budget Deficit
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-10-24T13:13:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/gordhan-set-to-widen-south-africa-budget-gap-in-credibility-test.html
South African Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  may target wider fiscal deficits over the next
three years that will test the government’s credibility in the
face of credit rating downgrades and slowing growth.  Gordhan, 63, will push his deficit goal in the mid-term
budget tomorrow to 4.9 percent of gross domestic product in the
year through March 2013, compared with a February estimate of
4.6 percent, according to the median estimate of six economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The worst mining strikes since the end of apartheid are
curbing growth in Africa’s largest  economy  at a time when
 Europe ’s debt crisis slashes demand for exports, crimping
government revenue. Investors are looking to Gordhan to restore
confidence and provide stability as policy risks increase before
the ruling  African National Congress ’ leadership contest in
December.  “South Africa is caught in a very negative place, with
downside risks to growth dominating,”  Razia Khan , head of
Africa economic research at  Standard Chartered  Plc in  London ,
said in a telephone interview yesterday. “What the Treasury
will have to do, and its work will be cut out for it, will be to
support its current rating, win the confidence of the  ratings
agencies  once again, by saying ‘We are not departing from the
path of fiscal conservatism.’”  Bigger Deficits  Gordhan may increase his target for the deficit next year
to 4.4 percent from 4 percent and forecast a 3.4 percent gap in
the year after that, according to the Bloomberg survey. As
recently as 2008, the government was posting surpluses.  South Africa  is running bigger deficits than other  emerging
markets  and its action is counter to fiscal austerity measures
in European nations including Greece and Spain aimed at trimming
fiscal deficits to avoid debt defaults.  Brazil  is targeting a
public-sector gap of 1.6 percent of GDP for 2012, while  Turkey 
is projecting 2.3 percent for its central government shortfall.  Gordhan will probably cut this year’s economic growth
estimate to 2.3 percent from 2.7 percent and project 2.9 percent
expansion in 2013, according to median estimate of 12 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. He is scheduled to announce the budget
details in a speech to lawmakers in Cape Town at 2 p.m.  Rand Weakens  Moody’s Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating
one level to Baa1, the third-lowest investment level grade, on
Sept. 27, citing the government’s inability to manage the
political and economic crisis engulfing the country.  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered its rating on Oct. 12 to BBB, the same as Mexico,
Russia and Brazil.  The rand dropped 6.2 percent against the dollar since the
Moody’s downgrade, the worst-performer of more than 160
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The yield on the rand bond due
in 2021 has risen 17 basis points to 6.62 percent in the period.
The rand rose 0.3 percent to 8.7436 at 3:11 p.m. in Johannesburg
today.  Strikes that began at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana mine on Aug. 10
spread to mines owned by  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  and  Gold
Fields Ltd. (GFI) , putting pressure on the government to boost social
spending in an economy with a 25 percent jobless rate, Moody’s
and S&P said. About 16 million people, or a third of the
population of 50.6 million, receive welfare grants.  ‘Fiscal Tightrope’  Gordhan “will be walking a fiscal tightrope, balancing the
need for additional stimulus in a struggling local economy
against the need to curb” the  budget deficit ,  Johan Botha , an
economist at Johannesburg-based Standard Bank Group Ltd.,
Africa’s biggest lender, said in a note to clients yesterday.  In the first five months of the fiscal year, the government
collected 291.3 billion rand ($33 billion), or 36 percent of its
total budgeted revenue, according to the National Treasury.
While that’s almost 30 billion rand more than received in the
same period of 2011, a slump in mining and manufacturing may put
a brake on tax receipts.  “The losses in the mining sector are going to influence
their revenue estimates,” Madalet Sessions, an economist at BoE
Private Clients in Cape Town, said in a phone interview. “They
had quite robust revenue estimates which they might cut back
down.”  The strikes are having a “significant” impact on the
economy, with 4.5 billion rand in platinum and gold production
deferred, President  Jacob Zuma  said on Oct. 11. South Africa is
the world’s largest producer of platinum, chrome and manganese.  Current Account  The budget deficit targets are increasing at a time when
rising imports and a drop in exports fuel the widest  current-
account gap  in about four years, adding to investors’ concerns,
said Standard Chartered’s Khan said.  “Even with pretty dismal growth all around, South Africa
is still seeing the kind of import growth and weakness in terms
of its exports that is driving its current account wider,” Khan
said. “The Treasury will really have its work cut out for it in
terms of not having any leeway for significant fiscal expansion
because sentiment is going to be driven by the twin deficit
considerations.”  The shortfall on the current account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, reached 6.4 percent of GDP in
the second quarter. South Africa relies on foreign investment in
 stocks  and bonds to fund the deficit, inflows that have
fluctuated this year as the global outlook worsened.  Investors are also wary of possible policy shifts at the
ANC’s December conference, in which Zuma is seeking a second
five-year term as party leader. The ANC may decide whether it
will back new taxes for the  mining industry  as it faces pressure
from its Youth League to nationalize assets. At a June policy
conference, Zuma said the ANC will push for “more radical
policies” to combat joblessness and poverty.  “We are shooting ourselves in the foot because we have
such poor leadership in the country,”  Ian Scott , a fixed-income
portfolio manager at Stanlib Asset Management in Johannesburg,
said in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  