-- Greenspan Sees Sluggish Economy Until Uncertainty Falls
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2012-10-23T21:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/greenspan-sees-sluggish-economy-until-uncertainty-falls.html
Alan Greenspan, a former Federal
Reserve chairman, said the U.S. economy will remain sluggish
“until the uncertainty comes down” over issues such as tax
rates.  Uncertainty is “large” and “you can see it not only in
the corporate sector, but also in households,” Greenspan said
today at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association annual meeting in New York. There’s a “tremendous
deal of uncertainty on what the future tax rates are.”  The so-called fiscal cliff in the U.S., or the $607 billion
of tax increases and federal spending cuts that will kick in
automatically at the end of the year unless Congress acts, is
inhibiting growth, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said. The
Congressional Budget Office said in an Aug. 22 report that
fiscal tightening of that magnitude could cause a recession.  Still, it will require “more” than just a budget deal to
restore a faster pace of economic expansion, Greenspan said.
It’s also important to address the issue of so-called too-big-
to-fail financial institutions, he said.  The world’s largest economy expanded at a 1.3 percent pace
from April through June after growing at a 2 percent rate in the
first quarter. Economists predict gross domestic product will
grow 1.8 percent in the third quarter and 1.9 percent in the
fourth, according to the median of 82 estimates in a Bloomberg
survey conducted Oct. 5-10.  ‘Quite Concerned’  In an interview on CNBC television today, Greenspan said he
is “quite concerned” about the fiscal cliff and its potential
impact on the U.S. economy.  “The amount of friction within our political system is not
new,” Greenspan said. “What is different is they don’t talk to
each other.”  “You have to compromise, not your principles, but the way
you implement them,” according to the former Fed chairman.  Greenspan also said that he does not see “any closure” to
the  European debt  crisis.  ‘The only solution to the euro is essentially a political
consolidation of the euro area,’’ he said. “I don’t believe
that you can have essentially 17 welfare states where some
central authority is controlling the fiscal affairs.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net 
Elizabeth Dexheimer in Washington at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  