-- Michelin Guide Honors Crenn’s Poetic Menu With Two Stars
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-10-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/michelin-guide-honors-crenn-s-poetic-menu-with-two-stars.html
San Francisco is now home to
America’s first two-Michelin-starred female chef who is also a
poet.  Atelier Crenn, run by chef Dominique Crenn, was the only
new entrant to the prestigious two-star category in the 2013
Michelin Guide for the Bay Area and Wine Country.  The Marina-district restaurant serves a five-course menu
for $95. There’s also a longer tasting at $160, though it’s
difficult to say precisely what’s for dinner. In the space on
the online menu where a venue typically describes the
restaurant’s offerings, Atelier Crenn instead publishes a 13-
line poem, penned mostly in English:  “Autumn whispers the untold memories/Mellow serenades of
colors of red and green./Fallen leaf of crispy autumn scene/The
glowing ocean and light ecume de mer,” writes the French-born
Crenn.  When asked about the literary side of the restaurant, the
editor-in-chief of the U.S. Michelin guides, who doesn’t give
out her name to maintain anonymity, said that “the cooking at
Atelier Crenn, as well as the style of the restaurant, is very
much an expression of Dominique’s personality,” adding that
“she’s creative; she’s artistic; she’s a little spiritual, and
she’s a little bit rock and roll.”  Perhaps she’s a little pastoral too.  Honors Kept  All the other members of the two-star category -- Baume,
Benu, Coi, Manresa and Saison, kept their honors. There were
three new entrants to the one-star category: All Spice, SPQR and
Keiko a Nob Hill.  There were no new entrants to the three-star category;
Thomas Keller’s The French Laundry and Christopher Kostow’s The
Restaurant at Meadowood both retained that coveted status.  Three stars mean exceptional cuisine, worth a special
journey; two stars are for excellent cooking, worth a detour;
one star denotes a very good restaurant in its category.  Michelin & Cie is the world’s second-biggest tiremaker,
after Bridgestone Corp. It produced its first guide in August
1900, distributed free (until 1920) and intended for chauffeurs.  The Michelin Guide San Francisco Bay Area & Wine Country
2013 goes on sale today for $18.99.  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Philip Boroff  on Broadway and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on  gadgets .  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 