-- Microsoft to Sell Surface Tablet Computer in China Without Delay
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-10-23T04:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/microsoft-to-sell-surface-tablet-computer-in-china-without-delay.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  will offer its
Surface tablet in  China  starting Oct. 26, the initial day of
global sales for the device, as the company uses its first
computer to challenge the dominance of  Apple (AAPL)  Inc.’s iPad.  There’s “no delay” for Surface in the China market, Ralph Haupter, Microsoft’s chief executive officer for the region,
told Bloomberg News in Shanghai today. Apple’s newest iPad
wasn’t sold in China until four months after the U.S.  Microsoft is trying to jump-start a moribund personal-
computer market and lay claim to some market share in a tablet
PC category dominated by Apple. Personal computer sales are
forecast to decline this year for the first time since 2001,
according to IHS iSuppli, as some customers spend on tablets
instead, a market where Microsoft currently has zero share.
China is now the world’s biggest PC market.  “The Chinese market is obviously, as for the whole IT
industry, very important for Microsoft,” Haupter said after the
unveiling of the company’s new Windows 8 software in  Shanghai 
today. “The biggest number of downloads in the Beta site have
been coming from China on Windows 8, so the interest is great.”  The Windows 8 operating system is an overhaul of the
product to add touch controls for tablet computers. Besides
touch controls, Windows 8 features a completely overhauled
design that drops the start button introduced in Windows 95 for
a start screen with tiles for each of the user’s applications,
as well as important people.  As in the similar Windows Phone design, the tiles
automatically update as new content, such as an e-mail or change
in the weather, comes in.  Revenue from tablet PCs is expected to grow 26 percent to
$79.4 billion next year, according to market research firm
DisplaySearch.  Apple’s newest iPad, which went on sale in the U.S. in
March, wasn’t sold in China until July 20. Carolyn Wu, a
spokeswoman for Apple, didn’t immediately respond to requests
for comment on Haupter’s remarks.  To contact  Bloomberg News  staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net ;
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  