-- LightSquared Wins Court Approval of Executive Bonus Plan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-10-23T16:56:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/lightsquared-wins-court-approval-of-executive-bonus-plan.html
Philip Falcone ’s bankrupt
LightSquared Inc. won court permission to award bonuses to four
key executives under a revised plan that pays them the most if
the company sells its assets or exits bankruptcy before July.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Shelley Chapman in  Manhattan  today
approved the amended plan after LightSquared resolved concerns
raised by a group of lenders owning $1.1 billion in debt and the
U.S. Trustee, an arm of the  Justice Department  that oversees
bankruptcies.  “This program is very clearly incentive-based, with
hurdles and benchmarks that are frankly not easy to
accomplish,” Chapman said.  While the executives, including Chief Executive Officer
 Douglas Smith  and Chief Financial Officer Marc Montagner, may be
paid more under the new plan, it requires them to exit
bankruptcy sooner and keep the company to a strict budget,
Matthew Barr, a LightSquared lawyer, told Chapman today.
Managers also have an incentive to meet three regulatory
milestones by Dec. 31, 2013, Barr said.  Executives would receive different amounts based on how
much cash they save, how soon they meet regulatory goals, and
how soon the wireless-network company exits bankruptcy. Details
of LightSquared’s regulatory goals were filed under seal.  Bonuses may reach 200 percent of base salary if the company
exits bankruptcy by June 30. After that, bonus amounts decline,
with managers getting nothing if the company doesn’t exit by
Jan. 1, 2014.  Lawyer Fees  The new bonus plan will omit planned grants of restricted
stock units, and make payments in cash, the company said in
court papers, without estimating a new total to be paid out. The
old plan was estimated to pay a maximum of $6 million.  Separately, Chapman said she would enter orders later today
for revised fees and expenses to be paid to LightSquared’s
lawyers and consultants. After the U.S. Trustee earlier
objected, professionals including main bankruptcy counsel
Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP agreed to new terms that
will trim total costs in the case so far to $5.6 million from
$5.7 million.  LightSquared, which is backed by Falcone’s Harbinger
Capital Partners hedge fund, has been in dispute with the ad hoc
lender group since the outset of its Chapter 11 case. The group
includes Capital Research & Management Co., Appaloosa Management
LP and  Fortress Investment Group LLC. (FIG)   FCC Rejection  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , filed for
bankruptcy in May, saying it had spent $4 billion developing a
satellite system that it couldn’t implement because of lack of
Federal Communication Commission approval. The FCC cited
complaints from makers and users of global-positioning-system
devices -- including the U.S. military and commercial airlines -
- who said the signals would interfere with their navigation.  A status conference on the company’s dispute with the
lender group over what documents must be produced in a probe of
pre-bankruptcy loans was delayed to Nov. 5.  The lender group withdrew opposition to an extension of
Falcone’s control earlier this month, as LightSquared won more
time to file a bankruptcy plan after coming up with a new
regulatory strategy. The terms give it until Jan. 31 to file a
plan and until April 1 to win creditors’ acceptance.  LightSquared filed for bankruptcy listing assets of
$4.48 billion and debt of $2.29 billion. Harbinger acquired
LightSquared in March 2010 for $1.05 billion in cash and
controls 96 percent of its stock.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  