-- Indiana Planned Parenthood Wins Ruling on Medicaid Funds
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-10-23T18:29:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/indiana-planned-parenthood-wins-ruling-on-medicaid-funds.html
Planned Parenthood of Indiana Inc.
won a federal appeals court decision that prevents the state
from cutting its Medicaid funding because the group provides
abortions.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in  Chicago , upholding a lower-
court injunction, said the organization was likely to prevail on
its claim that the state can’t cut off funding it’s otherwise
entitled to solely because of the group’s abortion services.  Governor Mitch Daniels, a Republican, last year signed
legislation that bars state agencies from contracts or grants
involving any entity that performs abortions or maintains
facilities where they’re performed.  “The defunding law excludes Planned Parenthood from
Medicaid for a reason unrelated to its fitness to provide
medical services, violating its patients’ statutory right to
obtain medical care from the qualified provider of their
choice,” U.S. Circuit Judge Diane Sykes wrote for the three-
judge panel.  Today’s decision upholds part of a 2011 order by U.S.
District Judge Tanya Walton Pratt in Indianapolis that
temporarily barred the state from restricting Planned
Parenthood’s Medicaid funding and its access to federal block
grant money that  Indiana  receives to combat sexually transmitted
diseases.  The American Civil Liberties Union, representing Planned
Parenthood in the case, said the decision would enable thousands
of Indiana residents to receive needed medical care.  Abortion Services  “Without the injunction, HEA 1210 -- the law passed by the
Indiana General Assembly in 2011 -- would have prohibited
Medicaid funds from going to any entity that offered abortions,
even though the Medicaid funds go to necessary reproductive
health services and do not support abortion services,” the ACLU
said in a statement.  A federal law known as the Hyde Amendment prohibits direct
funding by the government of most abortions. Indiana has a
similar state funding ban, according to the appeals court.  Indiana Attorney Greg Zoeller said in a statement that his
office was reviewing the court’s 49-page ruling.  “The people’s elected representatives in the Legislature
decided they did not want an indirect subsidy of abortion
services such as payroll and overhead to be paid with taxpayer’s
dollars and so crafted this law,” Zoeller said.  Legal Authority  “Although the injunction concerning Medicaid funding was
not lifted, we note that the 7th Circuit found the state has the
legal authority to decide how federal block-grant dollars --
which are tax dollars -- will be distributed,” Zoeller said in
the statement, referring to the appeals court.  Two of the three appellate judges found Planned Parenthood
wasn’t likely to succeed on the block-grant claim because the
statutes governing those block grants are different from the
Medicaid law.  Planned Parenthood had received $150,000 in grant money
from the Disease Intervention Services program, according to
today’s decision.  U.S. Circuit Judge Richard Cudahy dissented from the block-
grant portion of the ruling, arguing the lower-court record on
the issue wasn’t fully developed and that the appellate ruling
on the issue was premature.  The case is Planned Parenthood of Indiana Inc. v.
Commissioner of the Indiana State Department of Health, 11-2464,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  