-- Indonesia’s 10-Year Bond Yield at Two-Month Low on Fund Inflows
-- B y   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-10-23T09:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/indonesia-s-10-year-bond-yield-at-two-month-low-on-fund-inflows.html
Indonesia ’s 10-year bond yield
traded at a two-month low on optimism exports will pick up as
the region’s biggest economies step up efforts to spur growth.  Global funds added 3.92 trillion rupiah ($408 million) to
holdings of government debt this month through Oct. 19, Finance
Ministry data show.  Japan  is asking the central bank to boost
its asset-purchase program, local newspaper Sankei reported
today. The nation is Indonesia’s second-largest non-oil export
destination.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy recorded its third
consecutive  current-account deficit  in the second quarter as
exports contracted for a fifth straight month through August.  “Demand for Indonesia’s bonds is still strong on positive
sentiment,” said Dian Ayu Yustina, a fixed-income analyst at PT
Bank Danamon Indonesia in Jakarta. “We predict the balance of
payment situation will improve to see smaller deficits so long
as neighboring countries stabilize.”  The yield on the government’s 7 percent bonds due May 2022
was little changed at 5.75 percent, the lowest level since Aug.
10, according to closing prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association. That’s the same level as Bank Indonesia’s benchmark
interest rate, which was held at a record-low for an eighth
month on Oct. 11.  The rupiah traded at 9,608 per dollar as of 4:41 p.m. in
Jakarta, after closing at 9,605 yesterday, prices from local
banks compiled by Bloomberg show. One-month implied volatility,
which measures exchange-rate swings used to price options, held
at 6.25 percent.  “The rupiah will remain weak and underperform the rest of
the region,” said  Prakriti Sofat , a regional economist at
Barclays Plc in  Singapore . The currency will decline to 9,800 in
six months as the nation records current-account shortfalls
through 2012, she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yudith Ho in Jakarta at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  