-- Indonesian Power Generators Secure Coal Under 20-Year Contracts
-- B y   F i t r i   W u l a n d a r i
-- 2012-10-23T11:27:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/indonesian-power-generators-secure-coal-under-20-year-contracts.html
Coal-fired power stations in
 Indonesia  won’t sign new supply contracts until 2014 because
they secured enough fuel to generate electricity, according to
the nation’s state utility firm.  PT Perusahaan Listrik Negara arranged coal supplies of 69.2
million metric ton a year under 20-year contracts, Helmi
Najamuddin, the company’s head of coal division, said in an
interview today in Jakarta. The contracts include purchase by
independent power producers, he said.  Coal demand for electricity generation from Listrik Negara
and private power stations may rise to 67.8 million tons in 2014
from 54 million in 2012, according to data from the company.
Consumption may exceed contracted supplies of 88.7 million tons
in 2015 as Indonesia plans to burn more coal to compensate for
declining oil output and cut its oil subsidy.  “We will start seeking additional supply starting in 2014
for 2015 onwards as new  power plants  begin operation,”
Najamuddin said.  Power plants have options to buy more or less than the 20
percent contracted to adjust for consumption, he said. Prices
are negotiated annually and must be calculated using the
government’s monthly price benchmark, Najamuddin said.  No Tenders  Listrik Negara also plans to stop buying coal through
tenders and may opt for “direct selection” of suppliers for
future contracts, Najamuddin said. More than 20 companies
including mining units of PT Adaro Energy and PT Bukit Asam
currently supply the fuel to Listrik Negara and independent
producers.  “Tenders aim to set prices, but now we must buy coal at
the government-set benchmark prices,” Najamuddin said. “If
prices have been determined, we think it won’t be necessary to
buy through tenders.”  Appointing suppliers may also save time, as buying coal
through tenders may take as many as four months, Najamuddin said.
His team has finished a draft for the direct selection of
suppliers that is subject to approval by Listrik Negara’s board.  Indonesia is adding 10,000 megawatts of coal-fired
electricity generation to support its economic growth, with
6,087 megawatts, or 60 percent of the capacity, starting by year
end, according to data from Listrik Negara. The company controls
28,308 megawatts of installed generating capacity, or 85
percent’s of the country’s total, data from the company show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fitri Wulandari in Jakarta at 
 fwulandari@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  