-- Cleary, Linklaters, Wachtell, Fasken: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-10-23T11:11:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/linklaters-bp-wachtell-cohen-gresser-business-of-law.html
Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP 
advised  OAO Rosneft (ROSN) , which agreed to buy TNK-BP, a 50-50 venture
between  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group of billionaires, for $54.8 billion in
the third-biggest oil acquisition ever. Linklaters LLP are
principal legal advisers for BP.  The core Cleary Gottlieb team includes partners Russell Pollack and Daniel Braverman on corporate aspects. Partner
Antoine Winckler is advising on antitrust matters, and partner
Murat Akuyev on Russian law matters.  Linklaters’s team advising BP was led by partners Stephen
Griffin and Jeremy Parr, corporate; and Michael Bennett,
litigation.  By absorbing Russia’s third-largest oil company, state-run
Rosneft will match the output of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and control
more than 40 percent of Russia’s crude output. President
 Vladimir Putin , who’s sought to reassert government control over
the world’s largest oil and gas industry, said today’s accord
was important for the Russian economy.  “This deal is in line with the Russian government’s
strategy of reversing the privatization of oil and gas resources
that took place in the 1990s,” said Andrey Golubov, a finance
lecturer at Cass Business School in  London . The deal puts
Rosneft “on par with global giants like  Exxon Mobil .”  Rosneft, led by Chief Executive Officer  Igor Sechin , will
buy BP’s 50 percent stake in TNK-BP for $26.8 billion in cash
and shares and has an initial agreement to acquire the
billionaires’ half of the company for $28 billion in cash,
according to a statement yesterday.  The U.K. company will take a 19.75 percent stake in Rosneft
and obtain two seats on the board. The deal is London-based BP’s
biggest for 13 years and BP Chief Executive Officer Bob Dudley’s
boldest move yet to transform the company after the 2010 Gulf of
Mexico oil spill.  The only oil and gas acquisitions that have been bigger
than today’s deal are Exxon’s $80 billion merger with Mobil
Corp. in 1998 and BP’s $56 billion purchase of Amoco Corp. the
same year.  BP will receive $17.1 billion in cash and 12.8 percent of
Rosneft’s shares for its half of TNK, according to a statement
today. BP will reinvest $4.8 billion in the government’s shares
of Rosneft, leaving it with $12.3 billion in cash, 19.75 percent
of the state-backed company and two board seats.  For more, click here.  Fried Frank Advises Permira on $1.6 Billion Ancestry.com Deal  Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson LLP and Clifford
Chance LLP advised Permira Advisers LLP, which agreed to buy
 Ancestry.com Inc. (ACOM)  in a transaction valued at about $1.6 billion,
gaining the world’s largest family-history website.  William Stern, general counsel of Ancestry.com, led the
transaction for Ancestry, Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, which
also served as a legal adviser to Ancestry.com, said in a
statement.  Kirkland & Ellis LLP advises Spectrum Equity Fund,
Ancestry.com’s largest shareholder, in connection with a voting
agreement and rollover.  The Fried Frank team was led by corporate partners Robert Schwenkel and Brian Mangino.  Wachtell Lipton ’s team is led by corporate partner Andrew
J. Nussbaum and consists of partners Adam J. Shapiro, executive
compensation and benefits, and Jodi J. Schwartz, tax.  Kirkland’s  New York  mergers and acquisitions partner
Jeffrey D. Symons and San Francisco private equity partner David A. Breach advised Spectrum.  Permira, a London-based private equity firm, will pay $32 a
share, the companies said in a statement. The price is 41
percent higher than Ancestry.com’s closing price on June 5, the
last day of trading before press reports that the company had
hired a financial adviser for a possible sale.  Ancestry.com had been working with  Frank Quattrone ’s
Qatalyst Partners LLC to find buyers and had been discussing a
possible deal with private-equity firms, people with knowledge
of the matter have said. The company, which recently passed the
2 million-user milestone, considered a sale amid concerns that
the cancellation of a television show featuring its research
would crimp subscriber growth.  Tim Sullivan, Ancestry.com’s chief executive officer, and
Howard Hochhauser, finance chief, will retain a majority of
their equity stakes. The transaction, subject to shareholder and
regulatory approval, is expected to close in early 2013.  Ancestry.com was founded in 1983 as a publisher of
genealogical books and magazines, and later digitized its
content. The company said on Aug. 17 it had completed its
acquisition of Archives.com, another family-history website,
from  Redwood City , California-based Inflection LLC.  Permira, started in 1985, advises funds with committed
capital totaling about $26 billion. Since 1997, more than 30
percent of investments have been in technology, media and
telecommunications companies, according to the statement.  For more, click here.  Firm News  New York Firm Cohen & Gresser Opens Second Office in Seoul  New York law firm Cohen & Gresser LLP opened its Seoul
office yesterday, joining a half-dozen other foreign law firms
who’ve opened shop this year in  Korea . Unlike its competitors,
which have multiple oversees outposts, the 50-lawyer boutique
firm’s Seoul office is its second.  South Korean lawmakers signed a trade agreement in November
allowing U.S.-based firms to advise on U.S. and international
trade law and to enter local alliances with South Korean firms.
More than 17 foreign firms have applied for licenses. Cohen &
Gresser is one of at least six other U.S.-based firms who have
completed the process.  “Our firm is almost 10 years old and we’ve been
representing Korean firms almost since we began,” founding
partner Lawrence T. Gresser said in an interview about the
reason behind the firm’s unusual expansion. Shortly after the
firm’s start in 2002, TG Trigem Computer Inc. was looking for
U.S. counsel and “we won the beauty contest,” he said.  Several years later, TG Trigem’s general counsel, S.C.
Sohn, left for private practice.  Three years ago, the firm
successfully wooed him as a lateral partner and Sohn moved to
New York to further develop a Korea practice for the firm. Among
the firm’s clients are LG Electronics, which it is representing
in a number of class actions as well as one of the Hyundai
family companies in a large arbitration matter.  Now, Sohn has returned to Seoul to lead Cohen & Gresser’s
new office. His practice focuses on international arbitration,
cross-border litigation, products liability, intellectual
property, and international business transactions. He also has
experience in technology transfers and licensing.  Among the firm’s competition, are global law firms with
outposts dotting the world and well established practices in
 Asia . They include Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP, which
opened a Seoul office earlier this month, the firm’s 16th office
worldwide and third in East Asia.  Paul Hastings LLP, which advised Samsung Electronics in the
$1.4 billion sale of its hard disk drive business to Seagate
Technology, has also opened an office.  Other foreign firms include McDermott Will & Emery LLP,
Ropes & Gray LLP, Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLP, Sheppard
Mullin Richter & Hampton LLP, Clifford Chance LLP and Squire
Sanders LLP.  Gresser, a former Cleary lawyer, says the firm is committed
to the Korean market and plans to relocate one or two lawyers in
the next month. The firm plans to compete against its big firm
rivals by using the same approach it does in New York. “We
deliver the quality and attention to detail at the elite firms
but with more efficiency, lower cost and more client
responsiveness.”  Canada’s Fasken Merges with Bell Dewar of South Africa  Fasken Martineau DuMoulin LLP, a Canada-based law firm with
773 lawyers, is merging with  South Africa ’s 76-lawyer firm, Bell
Dewar.  Blaize Vance, managing partner of Bell Dewar, will become
the regional managing partner for  Africa , the firm said.  “Our firm has long been known for our unique understanding
of the African marketplace,” David Corbett, managing partner of
Fasken Martineau said in a statement. “The addition of the Bell
Dewar team of lawyers along with our existing teams in
Johannesburg, London, Paris and Canada provides us with an
unrivaled base of talent and experience to bring to the African
and world markets.”  The Bell Dewar lawyers bring expertise in mining,
infrastructure, energy, project finance,  capital markets  and M&A
throughout Africa, the firm said.  Corbett has been managing partner since 2006. Under his
leadership, Fasken Martineau merged with U.K.-based Stringer
Saul LLP in 2007. The firm also merged in 2007 with Ottawa firm
Johnston & Buchan. In 2009, the firm expanded into Paris through
the merger with Gravel, Leclerc & Partners and the addition of
several Paris-based lawyers from another firm.  News  Dewey Ad Hoc Partners Appeal From Settlement Approval  The Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP ad hoc committee of former partners
filed an appeal yesterday from approval given by the bankruptcy
judge on Oct. 9 for a $71.5 million settlement with about 440
former partners.  The official partners’ committee previously filed an appeal
from the settlement which shields partners from most suits in
return for contribution to the settlement fund.  Dewey has two official committees, one for unsecured
creditors and the other for former partners. The firm once had
1,300 lawyers before liquidation began under Chapter 11 in May.
There was secured debt of about $225 million and accounts
receivable of $217.4 million at the outset of bankruptcy, the
firm said. The petition listed assets of $193 million and
liabilities of $245.4 million as of April 30.  The case is In re Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP, 12-12321,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Moves  Hunton & Williams Hires Paul Huck Jr. in Miami Office  Hunton & Williams LLP announced that Paul C. Huck Jr.
joined the firm’s national litigation practice as a partner in
the Miami office. A former general counsel to  Florida  Governor
 Charlie Crist , Huck joins the firm from litigation boutique
Colson Hicks Eidson, the firm said.  Prior to his tenure as the governor’s general counsel from
2007-2008, he served as the deputy attorney general for the
State of Florida.  “Paul’s experience is an asset to our clients facing
litigation and investigation matters in the, environmental and
water management, telecommunications, health care, and
pharmaceutical sectors, among others,” Juan C. Enjamio,
managing partner in the Miami office.  Hunton & Williams LLP has more than 800 lawyers in 19
offices in the U.S.,  Europe  and Asia.  Video  Top Reasons General Counsels Fire Law Firms: Video  Lisa Hart Shepherd, chief executive officer of legal market
research firm Acritas, discusses primary reasons why general
counsels fire their law firms.  Shepherd, speaking with Spencer Mazyck in a Bloomberg Law
video, also talks about ways law firms can retain business and
other results of Acritas’ 2012 Sharplegal Global survey of a
couple thousand general counsel in 45 countries.  Fees  LightSquared Professionals Agree to 1.8% Cut on Fees  Professionals working for LightSquared Inc. persuaded the
U.S. Trustee not to object to approval of $5.7 million in fees
by agreeing to a 1.8 percent reduction in compensation.  There will be a hearing in  bankruptcy court  today for
approval of fees from the beginning of the reorganization
through the end of August. In addition to the reduction, the
bankruptcy court may also require a so-called holdback, where
some of the approved fees won’t be paid until later in the case.  LightSquared’s chief bankruptcy lawyers are from Milbank
Tweed Hadley & McCloy LLP.  The case has been marked by conflicts between the so-called
LP lenders and the company and its owner Harbinger Capital
Partners LLC. The lenders will ask the bankruptcy court at a
Nov. 5 hearing for authority to sue Harbinger over alleged
defects in loans and security interests. For details on the
proposed lawsuit, click here for the Sept. 17 Bloomberg
bankruptcy report.  The LP lenders are an ad hoc group owning $1.08 billion of
the $1.7 billion secured borrowing in October 2010 by
LightSquared LP.  LightSquared filed for  bankruptcy protection  in May,
listing assets of $4.48 billion and liabilities totaling $2.29
billion. The company says it spent $4 billion developing the
satellite system that LightSquared can’t implement for lack of
Federal Communications Commission approval.  Philip Falcone ’s Harbinger acquired LightSquared in March
2010 for $1.05 billion in cash.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-12080, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Litigation  Watson Can Sell Generic Actos Immediately, U.S. Judge Rules  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  may begin immediately marketing
a generic version of Takeda Pharmaceutical Inc.’s diabetes drug
Actos, a federal judge ruled, handing the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration a defeat.  A team of attorneys from  Axinn Veltrop & Harkrider LLP , led
by partner Chad A. Landmon, chairman of the firm’s FDA Practice
Group, with assistance from partner Mark D. Alexander,
represented Watson.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in  Washington 
yesterday overturned an FDA decision that kept Watson from
joining a period of shared exclusivity granted to the companies
that are first to file for the right to market generic versions
of branded drugs. Actos is the world’s top-selling diabetes
medicine.  Jackson ordered the FDA to immediately allow Watson to
participate in what remains of the 180-day exclusivity period
previously awarded to competitors Mylan Inc. and Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. Only the order was made public. Jackson sealed
her opinion because of  trade secrets  disclosed in the
litigation, pending arguments by the parties.  The case is Watson Laboratories Inc. v. Sebelius, 1:12-
cv-01344-ABJ, U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia 
(Washington).  For more, click here.  Litigation  Watson Can Sell Generic Actos Immediately, U.S. Judge Rules  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. may begin immediately marketing
a generic version of Takeda Pharmaceutical Inc.’s diabetes drug
Actos, a federal judge ruled, handing the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration a defeat.  A team of attorneys from Axinn Veltrop & Harkrider, led by
partner Chad A. Landmon, chairman of the firm’s FDA Practice
Group, with assistance from partner Mark D. Alexander,
represented Watson.  U.S. District Judge Amy Berman Jackson in Washington
yesterday overturned an FDA decision that kept Watson from
joining a period of shared exclusivity granted to the companies
that are first to file for the right to market generic versions
of branded drugs. Actos is the world’s top-selling diabetes
medicine.  Jackson ordered the FDA to immediately allow Watson to
participate in what remains of the 180-day exclusivity period
previously awarded to competitors Mylan Inc. and Ranbaxy
Laboratories Ltd. Only the order was made public. Jackson sealed
her opinion because of trade secrets disclosed in the
litigation, pending arguments by the parties.  The case is Watson Laboratories Inc. v. Sebelius, 1:12-
cv-01344-ABJ, U.S. District Court, District of Columbia
(Washington).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  