-- Israel’s Labor Party Sees Netanyahu Misstep on U.S. Spat
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-10-23T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/israel-s-labor-party-sees-netanyahu-misstep-on-u-s-spat.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s election rivals from the  Labor party  said he carried
disputes with U.S. President  Barack Obama  too far and gave the
impression of favoring Republican candidate  Mitt Romney .  “We criticize Netanyahu vehemently for a grave strategic
mistake, for being seen as intervening in American politics,”
Isaac Herzog, who holds the No. 2 position in the opposition
party, said in an interview in Bloomberg’s Tel Aviv office.  Netanyahu’s occasionally contentious relationship with
Obama and his overall handling of the U.S.- Israel  strategic
alliance are an issue in the Israeli political campaign ahead of
Jan. 22 elections. The U.S. and Israeli leaders have sparred
publicly over how best to advance the stalled  peace process  with
the Palestinians and to contain  Iran’s nuclear program .  Once the dominant force in Israeli politics, producing such
leaders as David Ben-Gurion,  Yitzhak Rabin  and  Shimon Peres ,
Labor now holds only eight parliamentary seats in Israel’s 120-
seat Knesset. The party aims to regain its former prominence by
stressing economic and social issues, and accusing Netanyahu of
isolating Israel internationally.  Israel was a prominent topic in the final U.S. presidential
candidates debate on Oct. 22, with Obama and Romney clashing
over the state of relations.  “The president said he was going to create daylight
between ourselves and Israel,” Romney said, referring to a
report that Obama had privately told Jewish leaders early in his
presidency that he was staking out some independence from
Israeli policies in order to bolster U.S. credibility with Arab
states.  Taking Sides  Obama said “we have created the strongest military and
intelligence cooperation between our two countries in history,”
and pointed to the largest-ever joint military exercise underway
this week.  “One of the criticisms some of us have of Netanyahu is
that, perhaps for the first time, a prime minister seemed to
have taken sides at a time when Israel and the American
administration need to be fully aligned,” Erel Margalit, a
venture capital investor in technology companies who joined
Labor last year, said in the same interview.  Margalit criticized a Romney fundraiser attended by U.S.
gambling magnate  Sheldon Adelson , a Netanyahu supporter, held
when the Republican candidate visited Jerusalem in July. Obama
also targeted the fundraiser during the presidential debate,
saying that when he was in Jerusalem as a presidential candidate
in 2008 he visited the Yad Vashem Holocaust memorial rather than
meet potential donors.  Retooled Party  Herzog, 52, and Margalit, 51, are hoping a Labor party
resurgent in opinion polls can challenge Netanyahu’s Likud party
over the next three months. Former party leader  Ehud Barak  split
from Labor last year after deciding to stay on as defense
minister in Netanyahu’s coalition, taking with him five Knesset
seats to form the Independence faction.  Barak’s replacement as Labor leader, former radio
journalist Shelly Yacimovich, has retooled the party by shifting
its primary focus from being an advocate for Israeli-Arab peace,
toward social welfare issues. Yacimovich backed last year’s
street protests calling for lower housing and food prices.  The party’s strategy seems to be paying off, with a poll in
the Haaretz daily newspaper on Oct. 11 projecting Labor winning
19 seats, second only to Likud’s 29.  “Israeli society today, like all politics around the
world, has shifted to new topics,” said Herzog, a lawyer by
profession and son of former president Chaim Herzog. Labor “has
to regain its strength as a social-democratic party,” rather
than just push for a peace agreement with the Palestinians, he
said.  Economic Growth  In focusing on economic issues, Labor will have to counter
the fact that Netanyahu, working together with Bank of Israel
Governor  Stanley Fischer , avoided the most serious consequences
of the developed world’s financial crisis. The  Central Bureau of
Statistics  estimates that Israel’s economy will grow 3.5 percent
this year, while unemployment for August stood at 6.9 percent
and September’s 2.1 percent inflation rate was about at the
midpoint of the government’s target range.  “The message of economic growth that trickles down to the
people, and doesn’t stay encapsulated in a very narrow part of
society, is what we bring,” said Margalit, founder of Jerusalem
Venture Partners. He said Labor’s message that it can accelerate 
growth by pursuing policies that lower regional tensions and may 
ultimately lead to a peace deal will appeal to voters.  While Labor is aiming to draw more blue-collar voters from
the Likud’s traditional working-class constituency, its
leadership does not exclude the possibility of joining its rival
in a future national unity government.  “We don’t want to be a ‘fifth wheel’ in any government,”
said Herzog. “We want to be the ones to form the next
government, but we don’t rule out any options.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Calev Ben-David in  Jerusalem  at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  