-- Itau Falls to Three-Month Low on Drop in Banking Fees
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-10-23T10:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/itau-s-earnings-match-estimates-as-bad-loan-provisions-increase.html
Itau Unibanco Holding SA (ITUB4) ,  Latin
America ’s largest bank by market value, posted a 13 percent drop
in third-quarter profit, matching analysts’ estimates, as the
Brazilian lender increased provisions for bad loans.  Recurring net income, which excludes one-time charges,
declined to 3.41 billion reais ($1.69 billion) in the quarter,
or 0.76 reais a share, from 3.94 billion reais, or 0.87 reais, a
year earlier, the Sao Paulo-based bank said today in a filing.
That compares with the 0.77 real-per-share median estimate of 10
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazilian borrowers have been delaying debt payments
because of the slowing economy, which has prompted the central
bank to cut interest rates to a record low over the past year.
Itau, led by Chief Executive Officer Roberto Setubal, 58, set
aside 5.94 billion reais for bad loans in the quarter. That’s
down from 5.99 billion reais in the three previous months,
though it’s higher than the 4.97 billion reais in the year-
earlier period.  The nation’s “lower  interest rates , still-heated job
market, relatively higher payment terms and controlled
delinquency enable some ease in the deleverage of families’
indebtedness,” Flavio Yoshida and Andre Parize, analysts with
Votorantim Corretora in  Sao Paulo , wrote in a note to clients on
Oct. 11.  The bank’s overall delinquency rate fell to 5.1 percent at
the end of September from 5.2 percent in the second quarter. The
rate was at 4.7 percent a year earlier.  Itau shares fell 0.5 percent yesterday in Sao Paulo,
compared with a decline of 1.9 percent for  Banco Bradesco SA (BBDC4) ,
Latin America’s second-largest bank by market value.  Itau said it agreed to sell a 16.1 percent stake in Serasa,
a Brazilian consumer credit-rating firm, for 1.7 billion reais
to  Experian Plc (EXPN) , according to another regulatory filing today.
Last month, the lender paid 11.8 billion reais to buy out card-
payment processor company Redecard SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in Sao Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  