-- Japan Minister Resigns After Apologizing for Ties to Yakuza
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-10-23T03:59:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/japan-justice-minister-resigns-after-apologizing-for-gang-links.html
Japan’s justice minister quit after
apologizing for attending a gangster’s wedding and accepting
donations from a foreign-run company, in the latest blow to
Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s falling popularity.  Keishu Tanaka blamed ill health for resigning, Chief
Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura told reporters today in Tokyo.
Tanaka, 74, was appointed three weeks ago as part of a cabinet
reshuffle and checked into a hospital on Oct. 19 after public
broadcaster NHK reported he would resign.  “The resignation was received today and his replacement
will be chosen by the prime minister, leaving as short an
interval as possible,” Fujimura said.  The setback comes as polls show fewer than one voter in
five supporting Noda ahead of an election required by August. He
failed last week to persuade opposition leaders to support
legislation needed to fund this year’s budget, prolonging a
deadlock as signs build that the world’s third-largest economy
is moving closer to contraction.  Tanaka apologized earlier this month for serving in the
ceremonial position of a “go between” at a wedding 30 years
ago, saying he only found out later that Yakuza members were
involved. He also said he had unwittingly accepted donations
from a company run by foreign nationals in a breach of the
political funding law, and returned the money this month.  Personnel Problems  Fujimura said Noda shouldn’t be held responsible for the
resignation, the latest in a series of personnel changes during
his 13-month administration. Noda has replaced four ministers
who were censured in the upper house.  Another, Trade Minister  Yoshio Hachiro , resigned eight days
into the job in September 2011 after joking about radiation in
Fukushima following the nuclear disaster.  “Noda seems to have failed to carry out adequate checks
before appointing personnel,” said Katsuhiko Nakamura, director
of research at the Tokyo-based policy institute, Asian Forum
Japan. “That’s a weakness.”  Noda pledged in August to hold elections “soon” in return
for opposition support on a bill to double the  sales tax . His
support slid after he failed last week to persuade opposition
leaders Shinzo Abe of the  Liberal Democratic Party  and Natsuo Yamaguchi of the New Komeito to support legislation needed to
fund this year’s budget without giving a firm commitment on the
timing of the next election.  Economic Downgrade  Japan ’s government on Oct. 12 issued a downgraded
assessment of the economy for a third month, the longest streak
since the 2009 global recession, as gains in the yen and slowing
overseas demand hurt exporters. A report this week showed
September exports fell faster than at any time since the
aftermath of last year’s earthquake, amid a territorial dispute
with  China , Japan’s biggest trade partner.  Noda’s approval rating fell to 18 percent in an Asahi
survey published yesterday, the lowest since he took office in
September 2011. About 57 percent of respondents said Noda was
responsible for Tanaka’s appointment. The Asahi telephone survey
of 1,620 people was taken Oct. 20 and 21 and didn’t provide a
margin of error.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  