-- Japanese Stock Futures Fall as Slowdown Erodes Earnings
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   M a s a a k i   I w a m o t o
-- 2012-10-23T23:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/japanese-stock-futures-fall-as-slowdown-erodes-earnings.html
Japanese  stock futures  and
Australian equities fell on concern the global economic slowdown
is crimping corporate earnings and as commodities erased this
year’s gains.  American Depositary Receipts  of Canon Inc., camera maker
that gets 80 percent of its revenue overseas, fell 1.6 percent
from the closing price in Tokyo. Kawasaki Heavy Industries Ltd.
may be active in Tokyo after the gas-turbine maker said in
preliminary a statement first-half earnings missed its forecasts
on the economic slowdown in China and  Europe .  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ,
Australia’s biggest oil producer and the world’s No. 1 mining
company by market value, lost 1.7 percent after crude and metals
prices declined.  Futures on Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average expiring in
December closed at 8,920 in  Chicago  yesterday, down from 9,000
in  Osaka , Japan. They were bid in the pre-market at 8,910 in
Osaka at 8:05 a.m. local time. Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index
fell 0.5 percent today. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.5
percent in Wellington.  “Investor sentiments are being swayed” as major U.S.
companies cut earnings forecasts in addition to the global
economic slowdown, said  Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in
Tokyo at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “More investors are likely
to sell shares as the markets are kind of overheated.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.1
percent today. The gauge declined 1.4 percent yesterday in  New
York , the lowest close since Sept. 5, amid disappointing
earnings results at companies from 3M Co. to DuPont Co.  Yen Gains  3M, the maker of products ranging from Scotch tapes to
dental braces, cut its full-year profit forecast as a recession
in Europe and slowing Asian growth crimped sales. DuPont, the
most valuable U.S. chemical maker, said it will eliminate about
1,500 jobs after posting a smaller third-quarter profit than
analysts estimated on falling demand for paint pigment.  The dollar and yen gained versus most major counterparts as
companies reported financial results that missed analyst
estimates, adding to evidence the global economy is slowing and
sapping risk appetite.  The Japanese currency appreciated to as high as 103.68
against the euro today in Tokyo, compared with 104.26 at the
close of  stock trading  yesterday, cutting the value of overseas
income at Japanese companies when converted into their home
currency.  Commodities declined, erasing this year’s advance, on
speculation that demand for energy, industrial metals and some
agricultural products will slump because of the sluggish global
economy. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24  raw
materials  fell 1.4 percent yesterday in New York. Earlier, the
gauge touched 635.1, the lowest level since Aug. 3.  Oil Drops  Crude oil for December delivery declined to $86.67 a barrel
in New York yesterday, the lowest settlement since July 12.
Prices are down 12 percent this year.  The London Metal Exchange Index of prices for six
industrial metals including copper and aluminum yesterday fell
1.3 percent to the lowest close since Sept. 6.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S slipped 1.3 percent to 95.41 in New York
yesterday, the steepest fall since Sept. 20.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific (MXAP)  Index rebounded 12 percent through
yesterday from this year’s low on June 4 as stimulus measures in
Europe, the U.S., Japan and China boosted  market sentiment  amid
a global economic slowdown and Europe’s debt crisis. The Asian
benchmark traded at 13 times  estimated earnings  on average,
compared with 13.5 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and 12
for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Japan’s current earnings season peaks next week, with 570
of the 1,672 companies listed on the Topix Index reporting
results. Nintendo Co. and steelmaker JFE Holdings Inc. are among
124 companies scheduled to post this week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in  Tokyo  at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Masaaki Iwamoto in Tokyo at 
 miwamoto4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  