-- Japan Needs Nuclear Power to Offset High Gas Costs, Tanaka Says
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-10-23T04:52:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/japan-needs-nuclear-power-to-offset-high-gas-costs-tanaka-says.html
Japan , which pledged this year to
scrap nuclear power by 2040, needs to keep atomic fuel in its
electricity mix to offset rising energy costs and a possible
military conflict in  Iran , according to the former executive
director of the  International Energy Agency .  “Without nuclear, we have a very serious problem,”  Nobuo Tanaka , now a global associate for  energy security  at the
Institute of Energy Economics in Japan, said in an interview
today in Singapore. He predicts that atomic power may contribute
as much as 30 percent to the nation’s future mix and said
phasing it out will prove to be “impossible.”  Japan’s government said in September it will eliminate
atomic power following radiation leaks resulting from  Fukushima
Dai-Ichi disaster . This decision may be reviewed in light of
continued business support for reactors, the Institute of Energy
Economics of Japan said yesterday. Keidanren, Japan’s biggest
business lobby that includes industry giants like Toyota Motor
Corp. as well as power utilities, has called the zero nuclear
plan “unrealistic” and a threat to Japanese manufacturing.  While Japan is paying about five times as much for gas as
buyers in the U.S.,  Yukio Edano , Japan’s Trade and Industry
Minister, disagrees with those advocating getting as much as 25
percent of Japan’s future power from reactors.  “I don’t think the zero-nuclear scenario is any more
negative than the 20 to 25 percent scenario for Japan’s
economy,” Edano said Aug. 7. “Rather, it will positively
impact the economy if we do it right,” and developing
renewable-energy and power-saving technologies would boost
domestic demand and improve Japan’s competitiveness, he said.  Military Strike  Conflict in Iran and the closure of the  Strait of Hormuz , a
transit route for 85 percent of Japan’s oil and 25 percent of
its liquefied natural gas imports, adds energy risks, Tanaka
said. A military strike by  Israel  on Iran’s nuclear facilities
is the “most likely scenario,” he said.  All but two of Japan’s 50 reactors remain shut more than 18
months after an earthquake and tsunami caused a meltdown at
Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant and
shattered public confidence in the safety of atomic power. The
country’s utilities imported 5.31 million tons of LNG in August,
a record for that month, the Federation of Electric Power Cos.
said Sept. 14. Japan accounted for 18 percent of Asia-Pacific
gas demand last year, according to BP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  