-- JPMorgan’s Tanious Says U.S. Best House in Neighborhood
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-10-23T16:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/jpmorgan-s-tanious-says-u-s-best-house-in-neighborhood.html
The  U.S. economy  is the strongest
among developed markets as a debt crisis weighs on Europe, said
Joseph Tanious, a global market strategist at  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ’s asset-management unit.  “It’s kind of like the best house in a really lousy
neighborhood,” Tanious today said at a presentation in
Washington. The U.S. economy will grow at about a 2 percent pace
for the next two years, he said.  Tanious joins JPMorgan Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
in highlighting the potential for the U.S. economy while Europe
struggles, even as tax hikes and spending cuts loom as part of
the so-called fiscal cliff. Lawmakers will find a way to avoid
the fiscal cliff after U.S. elections in November, Tanious said.  “It is in no political party’s best interest to push the
U.S. economy into a recession,” Tanious said at the American
Council of Life Insurers’ annual conference. “You’re going to
see a lot of political banter, but at the end of the day I do
think an agreement will be reached.”  Dimon hosted a meeting of more than 75 CEOs at his bank’s
New York headquarters yesterday to build support for a campaign
to address the U.S. deficit and avert the fiscal cliff,
according to a person with knowledge of the event. He’s said
bond markets will eventually spurn  U.S. debt  if lawmakers fail
to reach an agreement to address the deficit.  Still, Dimon has affirmed his faith in the U.S., saying
Oct. 10 that the economy remains “fundamentally stronger than
people might think.”  The U.S. economy will grow by 2.1 percent this year and 2
percent in 2013, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
The euro zone may shrink this year and grow by 0.3 percent next
year, economists estimate. Better growth prospects have helped
the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks rally 12 percent
this year, compared with the 9.8 percent gain of the  Stoxx
Europe 600 Index. (SXXP)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  