-- Juniper Forecast Falls Short of Estimates on Slow Sales
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-10-23T21:32:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/juniper-forecast-falls-short-of-estimates-on-slow-sales.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , the second-
biggest maker of computer network equipment, forecast profit
that missed analysts’ estimates as stiffer competition and
spending cutbacks by telecommunications companies curb growth.  Fourth-quarter profit excluding some costs will be 19 cents
to 22 cents a share, Juniper said today in a statement. That’s
below the average estimate of 24 cents, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue will total $1.1 billion to $1.13
billion, Juniper said, less than the $1.15 billion estimate.  The forecast shows the effect on Juniper of increased
competition from  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and other networking
equipment makers and slower spending by telecommunications
carriers, which generate 60 percent of Juniper’s revenue. The
company’s stock has fallen 14 percent this year.  “The environment, particularly on the carrier side, is
very difficult,” John Slack, an analyst with Caris & Co. in  San
Francisco , said in an interview. “The North American carriers,
AT&T and Verizon, they seem OK, but it’s unclear whether the
strength there can offset the weakness that continues in
 Europe .”  Spending by telecommunications carriers in  North America 
improved during the quarter while demand from the federal
government and financial services companies was soft, Juniper
Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Johnson  said in an interview.  Carrier Demand  “Clearly we’re seeing some strength in the U.S. and some
softness in Europe, as are many others,” Johnson said. “Asia-
Pacific seems relatively stable.”  Juniper stock rose 2.4 percent to $18 at 5:23 p.m.  New York 
time in extended trading after the earnings report. The increase
was probably a result of the shares having been “beaten to a
pulp” and signs that Juniper is making improvements to its
finances, according to  Brian Marshall , an analyst with ISI Group
in San Francisco.  “Same old -- Juniper beats and guides conservative,
Juniper beats and guides conservative,” Marshall wrote in an e-
mail. “This is because carriers can’t see five feet in front of
them and nobody in communications equipment has any
visibility.”  In the third quarter ended Sept. 30, Juniper reported
profit before some costs of 22 cents a share, beating the
average estimate of 17 cents.  Net income dropped 80 percent to $16.8 million, falling
short of the average estimate of $39.7 million. Revenue rose 1.1
percent to $1.12 billion, topping the average estimate of $1.06
billion.  Executive Changes  Juniper announced that Stefan Dyckerhoff, executive vice
president of the platform systems division, is leaving the
company on Dec. 31 to become a venture capitalist at Sutter Hill
Ventures. He will continue to work for Juniper as a staff
consultant to the CEO. Dyckerhoff, 40, will be replaced on Nov.
1 by Rami Rahim, 41, who currently leads Juniper’s edge and
aggregation routing division.  Juniper said last month that it was cutting 500 jobs, or 5
percent of its workforce. The reductions are part of a plan to
lower costs by $150 million a year by 2013, said Ellen Roeckl, a
company spokeswoman. The cuts were viewed favorably by some
analysts and investors, helping push up the shares by 4 percent
since the terminations became public. Those cuts are largely
complete, Johnson said.  Cost cuts and forecasts for increased spending by
telecommunications companies, particularly in the U.S., are two
reasons why Juniper’s profit margins should improve, according
to an Oct. 16 note by  Ehud Gelblum , an analyst at Morgan Stanley
in New York.  Network Upgrades  Juniper’s focus on telecommunications companies is at times
a liability and others a benefit. Diminished demand from
carriers has hurt growth in recent quarters. Still, the
companies spend heavily when they do upgrade their networks.  Juniper’s second-quarter results, reported in July, showed
that its newest products, particularly the T4000 router, were
gaining traction. The company also has opportunities in the
switching market, where Juniper is a small yet growing
competitor, Gelblum wrote.  Some analysts see the outlook for spending by
telecommunications companies as troubled.  Verizon Communications
Inc. (VZ) , the second-largest U.S. phone company, reported Oct. 18
that its capital spending for the first nine months of the year
declined by more than $1 billion from the year-earlier period.
Chief Financial Officer Fran Shammo said Verizon’s  capital
spending  probably wouldn’t rise in 2013.  Warnings such as Verizon’s indicate that Juniper will
probably remain under pressure in the near term, according to an
Oct. 22 research note by Alkesh Shah, an analyst with Buckingham
Research Group in New York.  Technology upgrades that would benefit Juniper may not
happen until next year, Shah wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in San Francisco at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  