-- King Says BOE Is Ready to Add to QE If U.K. Recovery Fades
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-10-24T06:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/king-says-boe-stands-ready-to-add-stimulus-should-recovery-fade.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
said the Monetary Policy Committee is ready to add to stimulus
again as it assesses the strength of the domestic recovery amid
signs that global economic weakness is spreading.  “At this stage, it is difficult to know whether some of
the recent more positive signs will persist,” King said in a
speech late yesterday in Cardiff, Wales. “Should those signs
fade, the MPC does stand ready to inject more money into the
economy.”  King said  gross domestic product  data tomorrow may confirm
a “zig-zag” pattern of recovery in the U.K. that is likely to
continue. His comments come two weeks before officials must
decide whether to increase bond purchases and at a time when the
economies that have driven global growth through the crisis have
shown signs of faltering.  “The storm clouds coming from the euro area have not yet
lifted, and in other parts of the sky new clouds have drifted
over,” he said. “China, India and  Brazil , the three largest
emerging market economies, are all slowing.”  The  Bank of England  is in the final weeks of the 50
billion-pound ($80 billion) round of quantitative easing it put
in place in July. The MPC will announce its next policy decision
on Nov. 8, and King said it will think “long and hard” about
expanding the program from the current target of 375 billion
pounds.  No Clear Direction  King “provided a characteristically downbeat assessment of
the global economic outlook,” economists Chris Crowe and  Simon Hayes  at Barclays Plc in London said in a note. While they
forecast a further 50 billion pounds of QE next month, they said
the decision is unlikely to be unanimous “and, perhaps
reflecting the uncertainty about the vote, Sir Mervyn shied away
from giving markets a clear direction.”  The pound rose 0.2 percent against the dollar today and was
at  $1.5991 as of 7:35 a.m. in London.  Over the past two years, the U.K. economy has been
“broadly flat,” the governor said. While Prime Minister  David Cameron  has insisted on maintaining his fiscal squeeze, King
rejected combining monetary and fiscal policy, such as by
directly financing  government spending  or engaging in so-called
“helicopter money.”  “It is the independence of the bank that allows us to
create money without raising doubts about our motives,” he
said. “Just as it is crucial that governments do not control
the printing of money, so too the unelected central bank must
not determine the levels of taxes and public spending.”  Inflation Control  King also said the central bank “could not countenance any
suggestion that we cancel our holdings of gilts.” He said it
must be able to sell the gilts to withdraw money from the
economy or it risks “losing control over monetary conditions.”  While measures such as the U.K.’s Funding for Lending
Scheme have helped lower bank funding costs by about 100 basis
points since June, the program is temporary and the time it buys
must be used to strengthen banks’ capital positions, King said.
He added that all developed countries still need to make
adjustments to help ensure an economic recovery.  “I am not sure that advanced economies in general will
find it easy to get out of their current predicament without
creditors acknowledging further likely losses, a significant
writing down of asset values and recapitalization of their
financial systems,” he said. “Only then will it be possible to
return to a more normal provision of the vital banking services
so crucial to an economic recovery.”  Slow and Uncertain  For now, the recovery is proceeding at a “slow and
uncertain” pace, King said. Data tomorrow may show the economy
grew 0.6 percent in the third quarter, according to the  median
estimate  of 33 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. While that
would end the U.K.’s first double-dip recession since the 1970s,
economists say underlying growth is weaker.  King noted “encouraging” signs, including falling
unemployment and a  cooling of inflation  to 2.2 percent, the
closest it’s been to the bank’s 2 percent target in almost three
years. Still, he said recent energy- and food-price increases
may keep it “a little” above the goal into next year. King
also said the economic recovery won’t happen overnight.  “There are no shortcuts to the necessary adjustment in our
economy,” he said. “The problems in the world economy mean
that we shall have to be patient.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  