-- KPN Profit Drops as Price Competition in Germany Increases
-- B y   M a a i k e   N o o r d h u i s
-- 2012-10-23T11:31:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/kpn-profit-declines-as-price-competition-in-germany-increases.html
Royal KPN NV (KPN) , the Dutch phone
company partly owned by  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB, said
third-quarter profit fell 32 percent amid increasing German
price competition and declining mobile subscription revenue.  Net income dropped to 250 million euros ($326 million) from
368 million euros a year earlier, the Hague-based company said
in a statement today.  Profit missed  the 326 million-euro average
estimate of 13 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue and other
income declined 6.5 percent to 3.05 billion euros.  “The outlook for KPN in Germany looks increasingly
bleak,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Bernstein, said in a
note to clients. “With no face-saving deal with the soon-to-be-
listed Telefonica Deutschland on the cards, they are likely to
face a harder go-it-alone strategy that may end up being more
capital intensive for diminishing returns.”  KPN is struggling with changing consumer behavior as
smartphone customers communicate more via messaging technology
such as WhatsApp or with calling software such as Skype. The
company may also face new entrants to the Dutch mobile market
after the government starts a spectrum auction on Oct. 31.  German customers of the E-Plus unit are increasingly
looking at opportunities to reduce costs and improve prices for
subscription bundles, Chief Executive Officer Eelco Blok said in
a conference call for investors today. It’s difficult to predict
how long that effect will restrain growth, he said.  Stable Share  KPN had a “relatively stable” market share of 15.9
percent in  Germany , Blok said. Earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization excluding restructuring costs
dropped to 323 million euros in the country, on an underlying
basis, from 354 million euros.  KPN  declined  as much as 4 percent in Amsterdam trading and
was down 3.7 percent at 5.59 euros at 12:58 p.m. The slump
extended the loss this year to almost 40 percent and valued the
company at 8 billion euros.  “Against an uncertain and challenging macro environment we
have seen mixed performance across the group,” Blok said.
KPN is on track to reach its 2012 market-share targets in the
Netherlands, he said. Dutch consumer mobile revenue declined 8.3
from a year earlier, on an underlying basis, as lower traffic
volumes were partly offset by higher recurring subscription
fees.  No Turnaround  “KPN said they are taking several initiatives to turn
around the company, and we’re not seeing any turnaround for the
time being,” said Javier Borrachero, an  analyst  at Kepler
Capital Markets who has a reduce recommendation on KPN shares.
“The traditional growth assets Belgium and Germany are starting
to feel the pinch of increasing competition.”  KPN confirmed its 2012 outlook for earnings before
interest, depreciation and amortization excluding restructuring
costs of 4.7 billion euros to 4.9 billion euros, with free cash
flow of 1.6 billion euros to 1.8 billion euros. It also repeated
its outlook for a 2012 dividend of 35 cents a share. Ebitda
excluding restructuring in the third quarter declined to 1.17
billion euros from 1.33 billion euros a year earlier.  Declining earnings caused KPN to breach its target range on
its net debt-to-Ebitda ratio in the quarter, which rose to 2.7.  “We recognize we are outside our self-imposed financial
framework in this quarter, and we expect that this situation
could continue for the coming quarters,” Blok said.  Contrary Results  “The numbers today indicate another direction than the
company has been guiding for,” Kepler’s Borrachero said in an
interview.  To strengthen its  balance sheet , KPN has tried to sell
Belgian mobile-phone unit Base after it ended discussions on a
potential merger involving the E-Plus wireless unit in Germany.
The non-binding offers it received for Base were unsatisfactory,
KPN said in August.  Blok has accelerated job cuts and plans to eliminate as
many as 5,000 positions in the Netherlands by the end of 2013,
as KPN has a “tough but achievable” goal of cutting costs at
headquarters by 30 percent to 40 percent, it said in April.  KPN said in January that 2012 will be a transition period
after two years of declining net income, as it accelerates Dutch
investments. The company predicted lower profit and cash flow
this year and said it won’t buy back shares in 2012 after last
year’s 1-billion euro program.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maaike Noordhuis in Amsterdam at 
 mnoordhuis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  