-- N.Z.’s Wheeler May Resist Rate-Cut Calls in First Policy Meeting
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-10-23T20:21:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/n-z-s-wheeler-may-resist-rate-cut-calls-in-first-policy-meeting.html
New Zealand  central bank Governor
Graeme Wheeler will probably resist pressure from unions and
exporters to counter a rising currency by cutting  interest rates 
in his first policy decision.  All 17 economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News  predict
Wheeler will leave the  official cash rate  at 2.5 percent
tomorrow in Wellington, prolonging a period of record-low
borrowing costs that began in March 2011. There is a 92 percent
chance of no change, according to swaps data compiled by
Bloomberg, and the New Zealand Institute of Economic Research
Inc.’s shadow board also sees Wheeler extending the pause.  The Council of Trade Unions wants the new governor, a
former  World Bank  official who started on the job a month ago,
to respond to the slowest inflation in more than a decade by
reducing the benchmark rate, saying that will curb demand for
New Zealand’s currency and make exports more affordable.
Weakening the argument for a cut are signs of a stronger housing
market and prospects for inflation to rise even as the economy
struggles to accelerate.  “A good case for an easing can be made,” said  Darren Gibbs , chief New Zealand economist at Deutsche Bank AG in
Auckland and a former Treasury and  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand
economist. Still, “the economic case for easing policy further
is not watertight at this stage, especially as he will likely be
concerned not to further stoke price pressures in the housing
market.”  Stronger Kiwi  New Zealand’s dollar has gained 5.1 percent this year, the
second-best performer among Group of 10 currencies.  Rio Tinto Ltd. (RIO)  last month said it planned to cut 100 jobs
at its New Zealand aluminum smelter, citing conditions that
include a rising exchange rate.  “We need the Reserve Bank to do what it can to give
exporters a break,” said Kim Campbell, chief executive of the
Employers and Manufacturers Association in Auckland, in a
statement this month.  Consumer confidence  fell to a three month-low in October,
and businesses reported weaker hiring in the third quarter.
Gross domestic product will expand 1.1 percent in the six months
through December from a 1.6 percent pace in the first half,
according to a Bloomberg survey of nine economists.  “With the economy stagnating, the Reserve Bank should be
loosening monetary conditions,” according to an Oct. 16
statement from Bill Rosenberg, an economist at the CTU, the
umbrella group for the nation’s biggest trade organizations.  Low Inflation  Adding to the case for lower borrowing costs,  consumer
prices  rose 0.8 percent in the third quarter from a year
earlier, below the 1 percent to 3 percent range the central bank
is required to target and the slowest rate since 1999.  Still, inflation is forecast to average 2.4 percent next
year as demand for capital and labor from the rebuilding of
earthquake-damaged Christchurch increases, according to the
economists’ survey. A series of temblors struck the country’s
third-biggest city since 2010, including a February 2011 quake
that killed 185 and destroyed the city center.  The outlook for inflation and rising  house prices  are main
reasons that economists expect Wheeler’s next move will be to
raise rates. Eleven of 17 economists forecast the cash rate will
stay unchanged until at least July. Five expect an increase in
the first half and one expects a quarter-point cut in June.  House prices in September rose 5.3 percent from a year
earlier, the fastest annual gain since May 2010, according to
Quotable Value New Zealand.  Sole Decider  Wheeler, 60, succeeded Alan Bollard on Sept. 26. Under New
Zealand law, the central bank governor alone makes the decision
on interest rates after taking advice from a staff panel that
doesn’t vote and doesn’t publish its minutes.  Before starting, he signed an agreement with Finance
Minister  Bill English  that included a requirement to focus on
keeping annual price changes near 2 percent to help anchor
inflation expectations.  He has made no other public statements and that, along with
a 15-year absence from New Zealand, makes his approach to
monetary policy hard to gauge, economists said.  “The big unknown is how the new governor’s attitude will
vary from his predecessor’s,” said Dominick Stephens, chief New
Zealand economist at  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  in Auckland. “He may
interpret the current economic situation differently.”  Wheeler spent 13 years at the World Bank, culminating in a
four-year period as co-managing director when he led its
engagement with the Group of 20, Group of Seven and the
 International Monetary Fund .  Wolfowitz Saga  In May 2007, World Bank President  Paul Wolfowitz  quit amid
a furor over a pay raise he helped arranged for his companion.
Wheeler confronted Wolfowitz at a managers’ meeting a month
earlier, saying his refusal to step down would damage the
lender’s reputation, the  New York  Times reported.  Prior to the World Bank, Wheeler’s career was centered on
New Zealand’s Treasury Department. He worked as a Treasury
adviser until 1984, when he joined New Zealand’s Paris-based
delegation to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development.  He returned to the Treasury in Wellington in 1990, serving
as director of macroeconomic policy and in other positions
before joining the World Bank in 1997.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  