-- Netflix Needs Surge for Goal of 7 Million New U.S. Users
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-10-23T16:12:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/netflix-needs-growth-surge-for-goal-of-7-million-new-u-s-users.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  Chief Executive Officer
 Reed Hastings  said in March the world’s largest online video
service would add 7 million U.S. customers this year. Investors
find out today if he still has a chance.  Netflix, which reports third-quarter results after markets
close, must add close to 1.8 million U.S. online subscribers to
stay on schedule, Hastings said in July. Analysts predict 1.43
million new customers for a total of about 25.4 million U.S.
users, the average of 10 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  “Investors already expect Netflix to lower its domestic
streaming subs guidance from 7 million,”  Arvind Bhatia , an
analyst with Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., wrote on Oct. 18. “The
question is really by how much?” The analyst, who has a neutral
rating on the shares, expects the company to add 6.2 million
U.S. streaming subscribers in all of 2012.  Netflix  shares  have whipsawed as investors weigh how fast
it can grow, closing up or down more than 10 percent on three
days this month. The  Los Gatos , California-based company needs
profitable domestic subscriber growth to fund overseas
expansion. Hastings introduced the streaming service in
Scandinavia last week.  None of the analysts surveyed expect Netflix to reach its
full-year target for U.S. users. With 2.27 million signed up in
the first half of 2012, the company must add 4.73 million in the
second half to make its goal -- and reach 28.7 million. It has
posted similar six-month gains only twice in its history.  “Netflix remains a ‘show-me’ story in the back half of
2012,” Douglas Anmuth, an analyst with JPMorgan & Chase Co.,
said in an Oct. 19 research note. “Competition from Amazon,
Hulu and TV Everywhere continues to increase.” He has a neutral
rating on the stock.  Analysts’ Estimates  Analysts predict third-quarter profit will drop to 5 cents
a share, the average of 29 estimates compiled by Bloomberg, from
$1.16 a share a year earlier, a reflection of the international
expansion that Hastings is funding with the U.S. business.  Sales for the quarter are forecast to increase 10 percent
to $904.9 million, the average of 29 analysts’ estimates, from
$821.8 million a year earlier. Of 37 analysts who follow the
company, 8 recommend buying the stock, 8 say sell and 21 have
hold ratings.  In July, Netflix predicted third-quarter sales of $890
million to $911 million, and results ranging from a loss of $6
million, or 10 cents a share, to profit of $8 million, or 14
cents.  Netflix fell 0.3 percent to $67.70 at 12:10 p.m. in  New
York . The stock had declined 2 percent this year through
yesterday, after dropping 61 percent in 2011.  ‘Time Bomb’  In July, Hastings said heavy viewership of the Olympics
might reduce domestic subscriber growth. In the next few months,
Netflix will face new U.S. competition from Redbox Instant, a
joint venture from  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Coinstar
Inc. (CSTR) ’s Redbox, along with continued pressure from rival
streaming services by Amazon.com, Hulu LLC and cable’s TV
Everywhere options, such as HBO Go, which lets customers watch
online.  Depending on third-quarter growth, Netflix would have to
add as many as 3.73 million domestic subscribers in the final
three months to meet its annual target, said  Michael Pachter , a
Wedbush Securities Inc. analyst who has an “underperform”
rating on the stock.  Netflix shares are a “ticking time bomb,” Pachter wrote
on Oct. 16. “The company is highly likely to miss its domestic
streaming subscriber guidance of 7 million, likely by 1 to 1.5
million subscribers.”  DVD Trial  Pachter estimates today’s report will show 1 million U.S.
customers added in the third quarter, the lowest of those
surveyed. Sterne Agee’s estimate of 1.6 million new third-
quarter subscribers is the highest of the 10.  The company is taking additional steps to shore up its
domestic business, moves that could bolster investor sentiment
even if Netflix, as expected, retreats from the full year
forecast.  Since August, new users to the company’s streaming service
have had the option of checking a box that adds a broader
selection of DVDs to the mix. The combined service costs $15.98
after a month’s free trial.  That marks a change from a year ago, when the company’s
effort to create separate mail-order and streaming businesses
triggered a shareholder revolt and subscriber losses. Netflix
recently upgraded software and other technology, making it
easier to activate both services, according to Jonathan Friedland, a spokesman.  “The streaming service isn’t adequate for a consumer to
get all the movie and TV content they need because you still
need to get newer releases through another service like Redbox
or iTunes,” said  Michael Olson , an analyst with Piper Jaffray
Co. in  Minneapolis  who has a hold rating on the stock.
“Encouraging people to go back to a hybrid plan enables you to
get everything you need from Netflix.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  