-- New York’s Highest Court Rejects Same-Sex Marriage Appeal
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-23T20:45:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/new-york-s-highest-court-rejects-same-sex-marriage-appeal.html
New York’s highest court refused to
hear a challenge to the state’s same-sex marriage law after an
appeals court ruled earlier this year that legislators didn’t
violate open-meeting laws in passing the measure.  The state  Court of Appeals  in  Albany  today denied a request
by New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms to appeal a July
decision by an appellate panel in Rochester overturning a lower-
court’s decision allowing the lawsuit to proceed based only on
that claim.  “New York State has served as a beacon for progressive
ideals, and this statute is a clear reminder of what this state
stands for: equality and justice for all,” Governor Andrew Cuomo said in a statement. “With the court’s decision, same-sex
couples no longer have to worry that their right to marry could
be legally challenged in this state.”  New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms is “disappointed
but not surprised by the decision,” Jason McGuire, the
Spencerport-based group’s executive director, said in a phone
interview.  “Every time the people have had the opportunity to vote on
this issue, they’ve rejected same-sex marriage but when
legislatures and the courts get involved they always see fit to
reject the will of the people,” McGuire said. “Essentially
this is a case that didn’t look at the morality of gay marriage
but the legality of the process, the procedure by which it
became law.”  Liberty, Values  The  group , which according to its website was founded in
1982 to promote religious liberty and moral values, sued the
state Senate a month after the same-sex marriage bill was signed
into law. It said that the legislative body improperly suspended
its normal voting procedures and failed to provide a three-day
review period before passing the bill.  Acting State Supreme Court Justice Robert Wiggins in
Geneseo, New York, dismissed those arguments in November, while
letting the group pursue a claim that the state Senate violated
the requirement for public access when a quorum of public
officials gathers to discuss state issues.  The state appealed, saying the open-meetings law didn’t
apply to a gathering of senators before the marriage act was
passed. The plaintiffs alleged that lawmakers were pressured at
the meeting to change their votes to support the bill backed by
Cuomo.  McGuire said voters “are going to have their say on the
actions of the legislature,” pointing out that one incumbent
politician who supported the same-sex marriage legislation --
Republican state Senator Roy McDonald of Troy -- lost his seat
in a primary election.  ‘Most Troubling’  “The part that was most troubling to us in this particular
case was that the court has surrendered its rightful role as a
check and balance on an out-of-control legislature,” McGuire
said. “It was really the last defense against legislators that
are pursuing political aspirations rather than the interests of
the people they were elected to represent.”  The case is New Yorkers for Constitutional Freedoms v. New
York State Senate, 807-2011, New York State Supreme Court,
Livingston County (Rochester). The appeal is New Yorkers for
Constitutional Freedoms v. New York State Senate, 12-ca-00313,
New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, Fourth
Department (Rochester).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 