-- New York’s Nassau County Has Credit Rating Cut by Moody’s
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-10-23T20:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/new-york-s-nassau-county-has-credit-rating-lowered-by-moody-s.html
Nassau County on New York’s  Long
Island  had its  credit rating  cut one level by Moody’s Investors
Service as the state’s wealthiest county depleted its reserves.  Moody’s reduced its rating on $1.4 billion of Nassau’s
general-obligation bonds to A2, its sixth-highest investment
grade, from A1. The outlook is stable.  “The downgrade to A2 reflects further weakening of the
county’s financial position in fiscal 2011 and the expectation
that fund balance will continue to decline in fiscal 2012,”
Moody’s said in a news release today.  The finances of Nassau County, with a median household
income of about $94,000, have been under the oversight of a
state board since 2011 after it failed to balance its budget.
Republican County Executive Ed Mangano has refused to raise
property taxes to narrow deficits for three straight years,
relying instead on job cuts and one-time revenue.  The county’s deficit is projected to decline to $113.4
million this year from $127.6 million in 2011, County
Comptroller George Maragos said July 13. The county has $40.5
million of reserves for a budget of $2.8 billion.  Tax Rebound  Mangano’s 2013 spending plan relies on $64.5 million from
revenue increases and cost cuts that may not materialize,
according to an Oct. 18 report by the county’s Office of
Legislative Budget Review.  Sales-tax revenue has rebounded to prerecession levels and
a wage freeze imposed by the oversight board, the Nassau Interim
Finance Authority, has helped manage costs.  Brian Nevin, a spokesman for Mangano, blamed the rating cut
on Democrats in the county legislature. The lawmakers opposed
the executive’s proposal to borrow to pay tax refunds and a plan
to let a New Jersey company run the sewer system for 20 years in
exchange for a $750 million payment.  “Democrat legislators have refused to cooperate in
cleaning up decades worth of debt without raising property
taxes,” Nevin said in an e-mailed statement.  Mike Florio, a spokesman for the legislature’s Democratic
Caucus, didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment.  Investors in search of higher-yielding securities have
looked past the county’s deficits.  A Nassau County general-obligation bond due in April 2034
traded yesterday with an average yield of 3.47 percent, about
0.8 percentage point above a benchmark index of municipals, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The bonds priced April 25 with a 4.1
percent yield, 0.97 percentage point above the index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in  New York  at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  