-- Nexen Sale Said to Turn on China Backing Canada Deals
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-10-23T21:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/nexen-sale-said-to-turn-on-china-backing-canada-deals.html
Canada  plans to ask  China  to allow
several transactions in exchange for approval of state-owned
 Cnooc Ltd. (883) ’s $15.1 billion bid for  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , said a person
with knowledge of the matter.  This list of deals by Canadian companies in China
underscores that reciprocity will be part of foreign investment
policies Prime Minister  Stephen Harper ’s government will release
soon, said the person, who spoke on the condition of anonymity
because the discussions aren’t public. He declined to say what
transactions were on the list. Another person with knowledge of
the matter said Canada is seeking concessions from China before
agreeing to the Nexen deal.  Harper urged Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  to permit proposed
investments by Toronto-based  Manulife Financial (MFC)  Corp. and  Bank
of Nova Scotia (BNS)  on a visit to Beijing in February. Canada
rejected a C$5.2 billion ($5.23 billion) bid by Petroliam
Nasional Bhd., Malaysia’s state-owned oil company, for  Progress
Energy (PRQ)  Resources Corp. on Oct. 19. The rejection sent shares of
Canadian oil and gas companies tumbling yesterday, including
Calgary-based Nexen.  Harper said yesterday his government will soon release a
“clear and new policy framework” governing foreign investment
in Canada, which holds the world’s third-largest oil reserves.  “Our view is that foreign investment generally speaking is
of benefit to the Canadian economy,” the prime minister told
reporters in Ottawa. “At the same time, we are committed to the
Investment Canada Act, which requires us to evaluate whether
individual transactions are in the net benefit of Canada, and
this government has in certain cases decided that’s not the
case.”  Scotiabank China  Canadian companies with pending investments in China
include Bank of  Nova Scotia , the country’s third-biggest bank,
and Manulife Financial, the biggest insurer. Laurie Lupton, a
spokeswoman for Manulife, didn’t have an immediate comment.  Canadian insurance companies in China are at a disadvantage
compared with local competitors when it comes to regulatory
requirements, in part because they can’t apply to open up more
than one branch at a time, Anthony Zobl, economist and senior
policy adviser at the Ottawa-based Canadian Life & Health
Insurance Association Inc. said in a Sept. 4 interview.  Rick Waugh, chief executive of Scotiabank, said in an
interview with  Bloomberg News  the lender hasn’t asked for
reciprocity and understands the approval process can be an
“extended process.”  ‘Heavy Lifting’  “There are reasons and exceptional circumstances, but I
think it’s for the private sector to do our own heavy lifting,”
Waugh said in the interview.  While Canada’s financial system has been rated the world’s
soundest by the  World Economic Forum  for five straight years,
its banks and insurers have had difficulty with Chinese
ownership limits and slow regulatory approvals for foreign
financial institutions, according to a report by the Canadian
Chamber of Commerce in January.  Speaking to lawmakers in Ottawa today, Harper said Chinese
companies have been able to invest easily in Canada, while his
country’s investments in China have been more difficult.  “Canada has had a situation with the People’s Republic of
China for some years where their investment has been virtually
unrestricted here and we have had more difficulty with our
investment there,” Harper said in response to a question about
a foreign investment protection agreement between the two
countries.  Net Benefit  A decision on the Cnooc bid for Nexen will be made based on
the six criteria for “net benefit” laid out in the Investment
Canada Act and the government’s guidelines on investments by
state-owned enterprises, said Margaux Stastny, a spokeswoman for
Industry Minister Christian Paradis, the lawmaker responsible
for reviewing foreign investments.  Takeovers of Canadian energy firms by state-owned
enterprises are testing Harper’s pledge to sell more of his
nation’s oil and gas to fast-growing Asian countries such as
China, whose economy is more than four times larger than
Canada’s. Canada needs foreign investment to finance the C$220
billion required to develop its oil sands projects.  China’s
economy  is forecast to grow 7.7 percent this year, compared with
2 percent in Canada, based on a Bloomberg survey of economists.  “We do need greater clarity and certainly some consistency
if we’re going to go running around the world telling everybody
we’re open for business,” said  John Stephenson , who helps
manage C$2.7 billion at First Asset Management Inc. in Toronto.
“We do need to develop these resources and that needs a lot of
capital we just don’t have domestically.”  Complicate Deals  Linking transactions in Canada to approvals by other
governments may complicate deals such as Cnooc’s bid for Nexen,
said Gordon Houlden, a former Canadian diplomat in China.  “If the procedure is already a bit of a black box, it
becomes even more complex,” said Houlden, director of the China
Institute at the University of Alberta in Edmonton.  The regulatory process for the Nexen acquisition is
proceeding normally, said Peter Hunt, a Calgary-based spokesman
for Cnooc, China’s largest offshore oil producer. Patti Lewis, a
spokeswoman for Nexen, didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail
and e-mail seeking comment yesterday.  “It’s ok that the government calls a timeout; we need to
look at how we treat those sovereign  oil companies ,” said Rick
George, former chief executive officer of  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,
Canada’s largest oil company, in Calgary yesterday. “At the
same time, you don’t want to turn off the tap on foreign
investment. What I’m hopeful for is that the government comes
out with a clear set of guidelines.”  Planned Meetings  Progress Energy  pared declines yesterday after executives
at Petronas and Progress said they planned to meet Canadian
government officials to “better understand” Canada’s
objections in a bid to win approval for the deal. Petronas has
30 days to appeal the ruling or make additional concessions.  Progress CEO Michael Culbert said he’s “hoping” the
Canadian government will see a net benefit to the sale of his
company to Malaysia’s state oil firm.  “What we’re trying to do is really move forward,” Culbert
said in a phone interview yesterday from the Calgary airport
before departing for Ottawa.  Nexen  fell  1.9 percent to C$23.59 in Toronto after dropping
4.4 percent yesterday. It was down 1.8 percent at $23.71 in  New
York , about 14 percent below Cnooc’s $27.50 offer price.
Progress Energy fell 3.4 percent to C$18.98 after falling 9.3
percent yesterday, its biggest drop since March 2009.  Beijing-based Cnooc has already made several commitments to
Canada to win support for the Nexen sale. These include listing
its shares on the  Toronto Stock Exchange (X) , establishing Calgary
as its base for North and Central America and maintaining
Nexen’s employment levels and capital spending program.  “All those things make the Canadian government more likely
to approve the CNOOC deal,” said University of Alberta
professor  Wenran Jiang .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  