-- Nokia to Sell EU750 Million of Convertible Bonds
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n
-- 2012-10-23T16:03:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/nokia-to-sell-eu750-million-of-convertible-bonds.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the mobile-phone maker
trying to cope with falling sales and dwindling cash, sold 750
million euros ($978 million) of convertible bonds to address
approaching debt maturities. The shares declined.  The senior unsecured notes due 2017 can be handed over for
Nokia shares when the  stock  rises 28 percent to 2.61 euros, from
the current market price, and will pay a 5 percent coupon, the
Espoo, Finland-based company said today in a statement. The
conversion premium and interest payment are the least favorable
to the company of the ranges used in marketing the notes.  “This is a big bond with a lot of credit risk,” said Tom Wills, who manages about $1.5 billion in equity-linked bonds at
Morgan Stanley Investment Management in  London . “It’s selling a
valuable option to get its borrowing costs down a lot, and that
combination is going to make it very volatile.”  Because convertible securities join a bond to a long-dated
option giving the right to obtain the stock at a preset price,
they allow companies to raise cash by making the two components
more or less valuable. That’s helping Nokia, which has run up
4.8 billion euros in  losses  since early 2011, is burning through
cash, and lost its investment-grade ratings this year.  “This offering is designed to further strengthen our
financial position and liquidity profile while allowing us to
benefit from the current attractive long-term financing
opportunities in the convertible  bond market ,” Chief Financial
OfficerTimo Ihamuotila said in the statement.  Convertible Stall  Issuance of convertible bonds in  Europe  stalled after 2009
until the third quarter of this year as companies seeking
funding turned to traditional forms of debt amid record-low
 interest rates . Third-quarter convertible sales in the region
were $5.5 billion, also the most for the period since 2009, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Nokia stock fell 5.09 percent to 2.05 in Helsinki trading,
valuing the company at 7.68 billion euros.  At the start of 2011, Nokia Chief Executive OfficerStephen Elop laid a bet on handsets using Microsoft Corp.’s Windows
software. Nokia’s net cash has shrunk by more than half in the
past five years to 3.6 billion euros.  The phonemaker lost its investment-grade  rating  from
Moody’s Investors Service in June and is now graded Ba3.
 Standard & Poor’s , which grades it an equivalent BB-, stripped
it of investment-grade status in April. Both firms have negative
outlooks on the issuer, a signal they expect any rating change
will be lower.  The company had short-term  borrowings  of 1.39 billion euros
outstanding at the end of the third quarter, as well as short-
term liabilities such as deferred income tax of 10.1 billion
euros, Bloomberg data show. The company has bond repayments
looming starting in 2014.  Bank of America Merrill Lynch, Barclays Plc, Citigroup Inc.
and Deutsche Bank AG managed the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Ville Heiskanen in  New York  at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  