-- Nokia Unveils $199 Lumia Smartphone for Emerging Markets
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-10-23T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/nokia-unveils-199-lumia-smartphone-for-emerging-markets.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish mobile-phone
maker attempting a comeback, unveiled the Lumia 510, its
cheapest smartphone based on  Microsoft Corp.’s (MSFT)  Windows software.  The Lumia 510, which has a four-inch display and comes in
red, yellow, cyan, white and black, will start selling next
month in the Asia-Pacific and South America regions, starting
with India and  China , Espoo, Finland-based Nokia said in a
statement today. The phone, which runs on the Windows Phone 7.5
platform, has a retail price of $199. In comparison, the
company’s Lumia 920 will be sold in Italy priced at 599 euros
($782).  Nokia, which reported its sixth straight quarterly loss on
Oct. 18, needs to win over customers using Apple’s iPhone and
devices running Google Inc.’s Android software if it’s to stop
plunging market share and lift revenue. Convincing customers in
the fast-growing markets outside of  North America  and Europe to
move to Windows will help protect Nokia from competition and
increase the chances of them upgrading to more expensive Lumia
smartphones in the future.  “With the Nokia Lumia 510 we continue to meet our
commitment to bring Windows Phone to new, low price points,”  Jo Harlow , head of the company’s smartphones business, said in a
statement.  Symbian Jettisoned  Nokia, which controlled more than half of global smartphone
sales before the first iPhone and Android devices were
introduced, last year jettisoned its homemade Symbian software
in favor of Windows. Smartphones running Microsoft’s program
have failed to threaten Apple and Google’s lead, holding a 2.7
percent market share in the second quarter, compared with 83
percent for iPhone and Android devices combined, according to
Gartner Inc.  While Nokia sold 2.9 million Lumias last quarter, it sold
76.6 million basic phones, mainly in markets outside of Europe
and North America, a 4.2 percent rise from the second quarter.
Asia-Pacific is Nokia’s biggest region, making up 31 percent of
third-quarter revenue. Sales in  Latin America  and China made up
22 percent of sales. Nokia used to be the biggest phone maker
until Samsung Electronics Co. took the lead this year.  Nokia shares closed 2.7 percent higher at 2.16 euros in
Helsinki trading yesterday, down 43 percent so far this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  