-- Obama’s Blunder Was in Ceding Political Center to Romney
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2012-10-23T22:30:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/obama-s-blunder-was-in-ceding-political-center-to-romney.html
The third and final presidential
debate did little to change the race between President  Barack Obama  and  Mitt Romney , who are tied with just two weeks to go.
Even so, this week’s inconsequential contest provides a key of
sorts to understanding the election.  In the first debate -- which was consequential and then
some -- Romney abruptly changed from the severely conservative
Republican he’d presented to voters during the primaries to the
reassuringly pragmatic moderate he’d seemed as governor of
 Massachusetts . It was an audacious move, and one that strains
credulity, in two respects: for the sheer distance in ideology
he had to walk back, and for the timing, because he left this
second outrageous pivot so late in the campaign.  In the last debate, focused mainly on foreign policy, he
moved further toward moderation. He struck a conciliatory tone
and found little in what Obama said to disagree with, making the
encounter in one sense a nonevent. He was cautious to a fault,
careful to avoid seeming recklessly hawkish, allaying concerns
that under his leadership the U.S. might blunder into another
war. This peacemaking Romney couldn’t have won the Republican
nomination. But he could very well win on Nov. 6.  The cipher to understanding this election is to ask, why
didn’t Obama beat Romney to it? Why didn’t he deny his
Republican opponent the middle ground of U.S. politics by
seizing it himself?  Class War  At the outset, he was closer to the center than Romney was.
And for Obama, this was far less of a stretch. Yet he’s fought a
campaign aimed less at the middle of the electorate than at the
 Democratic Party ’s base -- playing on class war and adopting as
its overriding goal, at times almost its whole purpose, a  tax
increase  on the rich.  If Obama should lose this election, many will say it was
because the economy was weak and because the president is black.
Actually, it will be because he fought it as a failed
progressive rather than a successful centrist.  Certainly, the economy is a negative for the incumbent, but
much less than generally supposed. Most voters understand all
too well that the president inherited the worst  recession  since
the 1930s, and that the recovery was going to be a long, hard
haul. To be sure, they’re asking whether his policies are
helping, and they are far from convinced. They’ve noticed his
silence on where his economic policies go from here. But the
mere fact that the economy is weak wasn’t fatal to Obama’s
prospects.  As for race, the fact that Obama is black has been more an
asset than a liability and it remains so. There’s racism in
America, but there’s also an immense desire to overcome it. The
voters swinging back to Romney aren’t racist, or they wouldn’t
have supported Obama in 2008. Remember the joyous inauguration
of 2009. The political center of the country was thrilled and
proud to have elected a black president: an exceptionally
talented man, and the best possible salve for the nation’s
unhealed racial wounds.  Every voter who chose Obama in 2008 still wants him to
succeed. But not all are convinced he can, and that’s partly
because he has stopped trying to be the president he said he’d
be. The need to fix  Washington , the need for a bridge-building,
post-partisan presidency was uppermost in centrist voters’ minds
when they elected Obama, and he’d made that the core of his
campaign. Washington is still broken -- more so than before --
and Obama is no longer even trying to mend it.  A fair response to this would be, can you blame him? After
2008, an increasingly radical  Republican Party  dedicated itself
to ensuring Obama’s failure. It made compromise difficult and
often impossible. On health-care reform and the fiscal stimulus
of 2009 -- the signature achievements of Obama’s first term --
the president was forced to give ground and got nothing in
return. The pattern repeated again and again. How can it be fair
to criticize Obama for failing to build bridges?  Presidential Error  The president’s error wasn’t that he refused to compromise.
It was that he compromised so reluctantly, denying himself
ownership of his own policies and making every accomplishment
seem like a defeat.  He should have boasted about his ability to get big,
important things past an unyielding Republican Party. He should
have boasted about the  tax cuts  in the fiscal stimulus, rather
than allowing them to appear as if they were ground out of him
as a concession to Republican priorities. (If he had, he might
have won a bigger stimulus.) He should have explained why
health-care reform without the so-called public option was a
great success, pushing back against the view of many in his own
party that this and other compromises rendered the effort
largely pointless.  Obama could have been a strong centrist, which would have
aroused even louder complaints from the Democratic left. Or he
could have been a weak progressive, constantly on the retreat.
He chose to be the latter. Policy-wise, the result might have
been much the same: a stimulus with more tax cuts and less
public investment than Democrats wanted and a health-care reform
resting much more heavily on the existing private-insurance
model than progressives would have liked. The crucial difference
is that Obama the muscular centrist could have taken credit for
these achievements -- which is what they are -- in a way that
Obama the battered progressive has been unable to.  He would have been able to campaign on them, rather than
leaving them unloved and unsold. He would have looked in charge
rather than at the mercy of intransigent Republicans. He would
have seemed his own man rather than an instrument of  Nancy Pelosi  and the House Democrats. He would have been the president
who never stopped trying to fix Washington. Above all, he would
have been ideologically aligned with the swing voters who decide
elections.  Midterm Setback  Many in his party would have despised him for it, just as
they despised  Bill Clinton  -- whom they now revere -- for moving
to the center after his midterm setback in 1994. Obama had his
1994 moment in the Democrats’ rout in the 2010 congressional
elections. He carried on as though nothing had changed. If
anything, he hardened the anticapitalist line around which his
campaign for re-election was forming.  The  Bowles-Simpson  deficit-reduction commission -- his own
initiative -- gave him another chance to occupy the center and
take command of public opinion. Again he was cowed by howls of
protest from progressives, and meekly looked away.  None of this would have mattered if he was running against
 Rick Santorum  or some other hardline conservative. Suddenly,
though, he’s running against a moderate.  Democrats are correct to say that Republicans in Congress
have moved far to the right. They are also correct that the
country has taken note and doesn’t like it. Somehow they failed
to notice the obvious implication. This vacating of the center
gave Obama a historic opportunity to broaden the appeal of his
party -- over its activists’ hysterical objections, but so what?
-- and lock in a second term. He blew it, and an election he
should have won easily will go down to the wire.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the drug shortage behind the
meningitis outbreak  and on why  Palestinians should pursue
elections before statehood ;  Margaret Carlson  on  why politics is
so personal  in Massachusetts;  Peter Orszag  on how states have
avoided  pension funding problems ; Cass R. Sunstein on  imagining
yourself in 20 years ; Ronen Bergman on  Hezbollah’s preparations
for war .  To contact the writer of this article: Clive Crook at
 clive.crook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article: Max Berley
at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 