-- Obama Packages 2nd Term Proposals for Final Campaign Push
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-10-23T14:56:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/obama-packages-2nd-term-proposals-for-final-campaign-push.html
President  Barack Obama , facing a
tightening race against Republican  Mitt Romney  in the final two
weeks of their contest, is undertaking a new effort to convince
voters that he has a concrete second-term agenda to lower the
 unemployment  rate and grow the economy.  With polls showing voters have responded positively to the
five-point economic plan that Romney has been hammering on the
stump, in advertisements and at the debates, Obama’s campaign is
distributing 3.5 million copies of a 20-page booklet outlining
the president’s proposals in conjunction with a direct mail
campaign and a new 60-second broadcast ad.  While the proposals on issues from energy to education
aren’t new -- Obama has been ticking them off in speeches
throughout the year, including at the Democratic National
Convention -- they are being repackaged to frame the president’s
appeal for voters and adds a sense of urgency in the final days
of the campaign.  Romney has repeatedly argued that Obama has focused on
political attacks and not giving voters an agenda for a second
term.  “Attacking me is not an agenda,” Romney said at their
third and final debate last night in  Boca Raton , Florida.  Obama, 51, and Romney, 65, are following up last night’s
foreign policy debate with campaign appearances in four of the
states that both campaigns say will decide the election. Obama
reprised some of his themes from the debate during a rally in
Delray Beach, Florida, before moving on to  Ohio .  Romney, the former governor of  Massachusetts , makes his
first stop in Nevada. He’s scheduled to be in Colorado tonight
with his running mate, Wisconsin Representative  Paul Ryan .  Obama cited the compilation of his proposals at the Florida
event. “Compare my plan to Governor Romney’s,” Obama told the
crowd. “See which plan is better for you.”  A television advertisement that’s part of the effort and
will run in nine battleground states, including Virginia, Ohio
and Florida.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Talev in Boca Raton, Florida, at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  