-- Lockheed Martin Eyes Dual Helicopter Bid Strategy for India Deal
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-23T08:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/lockheed-martin-eyes-dual-helicopter-bid-strategy-for-india-deal.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  said it may
offer India a mixed helicopter offering as it competes for an
order for more than $2 billion worth of maritime aircraft.  Lockheed, based in Bethesda, Maryland, and  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Sikorsky are trying to tempt India with an
offering comprised of the more capable MH-60R helicopter to
fight against ships coupled with the basic MH-60S to help lower
costs, said George Barton, vice president for business
development at Lockheed Martin Mission Systems and Sensors.
India is poised to formally kick off the competition for at
least 75 naval helicopters.  The 2008 terrorist attacks on Mumbai and growing trade have
driven India to put increased focus on controlling sea-lanes
approaching the country. The heightened concern about threats
from the sea is shared by  Middle East  and southeast Asian
states, providing a sales opportunity for defense contractors at
a time other markets are contracting.  “The maritime helicopter market is unique in that
countries have to protect the sea-lines of communications,”
Barton said in an interview at the Euronaval maritime conference
at Le Bourget on the northern outskirts of Paris.  Lockheed Martin and Sikorsky, who developed the MH-60R for
the U.S. Navy and sold the system to Australia last year, see
 Saudi Arabia , Qatar, the  United Arab Emirates , as well as
Malaysia, Singapore and  Thailand  among potential buyers, Barton
said. Thailand last year already agreed to buy the MH-60S.  The next big competition for the MH-60R will be in Denmark.
The country is expected to take a decision on who will provide
nine maritime helicopters before year-end, Barton said. The
competition pits the MH-60R against the AgustaWestland AW159
being developed by  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) ’s helicopter arm for the
U.K. The two competitors also are doing battle in  South Korea ,
where a decision to provide eight helicopters is likely next
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  