-- Locust Plague May Spread to North Africa as Swarms Form in Chad
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-10-23T14:17:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/locust-plague-may-spread-to-north-africa-as-swarms-form-in-chad.html
Locusts will probably spread to
North Africa in coming weeks as swarms form in Chad and are
about to gather in  Mali  and  Niger  after summer rains, the  United
Nations ’ Food & Agriculture Organization said.  The FAO has alerted Algeria,  Morocco ,  Libya  and  Mauritania 
to prepare for the arrival of  desert locust  swarms, the Rome-
based agency wrote in an e-mailed statement today. The conflict
in Mali, which has asked for international military assistance
to help it deal with an Islamist occupation of the country’s
northern region, makes it unlikely all locust infestations there
will be found and treated, the FAO said.  “Prevailing winds and historical precedents make it likely
the swarms, once formed, will fly to Algeria, Libya, southern
Morocco and northwestern Mauritania,” Keith Cressman, the FAO’s
senior locust forecasting officer, was cited as saying in the
statement. “Once there, they could damage pastures and
subsistence rain-fed crops.”  Algeria  and Morocco are the region’s second- and third-
biggest wheat producers behind Egypt for 2012-13, according to
data from the International Grains Council. An adult desert
locust can eat about its own weight in food a day, and a “very
small” swarm can eat the same amount of food in a day as 35,000
people, according to the FAO.  Locusts may also pose a threat to harvests in Chad, Mali
and Niger, the UN agency reported. Good summer rains provided
favorable conditions for two generations of locust breeding,
boosting the population of the plague insects in the three
countries 250-fold, the FAO said.  Swarms of tens of millions of locusts can fly as much as
150 kilometers (93 miles) a day, and a female locust can lay 300
eggs in her lifetime, according to the agency.  Locust Spray  Control operations started in Chad in early October with
spraying by ground teams, according to the FAO. Similar measures
are now starting in Niger, though teams require military escorts
to ensure their safety, it said.  FAO brokered agreements for Algeria, Morocco and Senegal to
donate pesticide stocks to Mali, Niger and Chad, and those
supplies are being airlifted with help from the  World Food
Programme , it said.  The UN agency said it has received $4.1 million in funds
for locust monitoring and control operations out of $10 million
requested in June, with government support coming from France,
the U.K. and the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  