-- Ohio Returns Go From Worst to First in Obama’s Term: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/ohio-returns-go-from-worst-to-first-in-obama-s-term-muni-credit.html
Ohio , which sided with the winner in
each of the past 12 U.S. presidential elections, has already
made victors of investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond
market.  Debt from Ohio and its localities has earned 8.6 percent
this year, most among states, Standard & Poor’s data show. In
2008, when President  Barack Obama  won back the White House for
Democrats during the longest recession since the 1930s, Ohio
bonds lost 9.6 percent, the steepest decline nationwide.  Voters in the seventh-most-populous state will decide in
two weeks whether they are better off than four years ago.
Ohio’s  jobless rate  is the lowest since 2008 amid a boost in
natural-gas exploration and the federal bailout of the
automobile industry. Tax revenue has exceeded the forecasts of
Republican Governor John Kasich’s administration and the state
is replenishing its rainy-day fund.  “Ohio has done a nice job of being conservative with their
budget estimates, and, as the economy has recovered, they’ve
been well-positioned,” said Jamie Pagliocco, director of bond
managers at Fidelity Investments in Merrimack, New Hampshire. He
oversees $31.5 billion of munis, including Ohio debt.  Battleground State  Ohio joins states seeing tax collections exceed their
prerecession peak and is among six battleground states where the
unemployment rate fell last month. No Republican has won the
White House without claiming victory in Ohio.  Obama won the state with 51.5 percent of the vote in 2008.
He led among likely voters in Ohio by 50 percent to 45 percent
for Republican challenger  Mitt Romney , according to a Quinnipiac
University/CBS News poll released yesterday.  The state closed a deficit of as much as $8 billion without
raising taxes in the two-year budget that took effect July 1,
2011, while boosting its rainy-day fund to $482 million from 89
cents in January 2011, Kasich has said. Tax receipts were 1.4
percent ahead of administration estimates through September in
the fiscal year that began July 1, Office of Budget and
Management data show.  “If you look at its fiscal condition, if you look at its
budget, if you look at any number of different metrics, the
state is doing exceptionally well,” said Daniel Close, who
helps manage about $1.1 billion in Ohio munis for Nuveen
Investments in  Chicago . He said he’d buy Ohio general-obligation
debt, which is rated AA+ by S&P, the second-best grade.  Penalty Shrinks  The  extra yield  that investors demand to own bonds of Ohio
issuers rather than benchmark AAAs fell as low as 0.18
percentage point in August, the smallest since 2009, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The state’s bonds have outearned their rivals even as Ohio
issuers have sold $9.3 billion this year, about 75 percent more
than in the same period in 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. Municipalities are taking advantage of interest rates near
45-year lows to start projects and refund higher-cost debt.  Ohio’s economy is benefitting from increased oil and
natural-gas development. There have been 429 permits issued
since December 2009 for hydraulic fracturing, or fracking,
according to the Ohio Department of Natural Resources.  Energy production may add $4.9 billion to Ohio’s economy by
2014, according to a study sponsored by the Ohio Shale
Coalition, which supports energy-industry growth.  After losing more than 618,000 jobs from 1999 to 2009, Ohio
has added about 176,000, according to federal data. Only four
states added more jobs in that period. The unemployment rate in
the Buckeye State was 7 percent last month, compared with the
U.S. rate of 7.8 percent.  “Ohio has just done considerably better than most other
states, and a large part is attributed to fracking,” said
Close, whose company manages about $90 billion in munis. “The
biggest thing it has created is decent-paying jobs.”  In the broader tax-exempt market yesterday, yields on
benchmark 10-year munis rose about 0.02 percentage point to 1.70
percent, the highest since Oct. 1, a Bloomberg  index  shows.  Following are pending sales:  COLORADO HEALTH FACILITIES AUTHORITY plans to sell $1.5
billion in taxable revenue bonds as soon as this week on behalf
of Catholic Health Initiatives, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. (Added Oct. 23)  CALIFORNIA plans to sell about $550 million in general-
obligation refunding bonds as soon as today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt will be sold via auction.
(Updated Oct. 23)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  