-- Oil Falls to Three-Month Low as Earnings Bolster Concern
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2012-10-24T12:43:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/oil-falls-to-three-month-low-as-earnings-bolster-economy.html
Brent crude  rose on evidence of a
stronger economy in  China , the world’s second-largest oil
consumer, and signs that previous price declines were overdone.  Oil in London gained as much as 1 percent today after
China’s preliminary manufacturing index, released by HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics, registered 49.1 in October
compared with 47.9 for September. A reading above 50 indicates
expansion. Futures were little changed in  New York .  “We have seen a massive price slump in the past few days,
so it’s not surprising to see prices rebound,”  Carsten Fritsch ,
an analyst at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said by telephone.
“The sharp decrease before was exaggerated. There are still
supply-side risks. China helped to improve  market sentiment .”  Brent for December delivery advanced as much as $1.09 to
$109.34 a barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange and was at
$108.72 at 1:30 p.m. London time. The contract closed 1.1
percent lower at $108.25 yesterday, its sixth consecutive
decline. The European benchmark’s premium to the New York-traded
WTI grade widened to $21.89 from $21.58 yesterday.  West Texas Intermediate crude was little changed at $86.79
a barrel after falling as much as 0.5 percent. Futures rose as
much as 0.9 percent earlier in the day in electronic trading on
the  New York Mercantile Exchange .  Nigeria Floods  Nigeria ,  Africa ’s top crude producer, lost as much as
500,000 barrels a day of output during two months of flooding
that deluged  oil fields  in the Niger River delta and is now
restarting some platforms.  Production dropped to 2.1 million barrels a day at the
height of the floods “in the last couple of weeks,” Osten
Olorunsola, head of the Department for Petroleum Resources, the
oil industry’s regulator, said in Lagos, the commercial capital.
Output is gradually being restored to 2.3 million barrels as the
water recedes and producers reopen wells and other facilities,
he said.  Syria’s President Bashar al-Assad and some rebel groups
agreed to a cease-fire in that nation’s conflict during the Eid
al-Adha, a Muslim festival, this week, according to United
Nations Special Envoy Lakhdar Brahimi.  WTI erased gains earlier today following a report from
Markit Economics that the German purchasing managers’ index for
manufacturing showed 45.7 for October, down from 47.4 in
September. Business confidence in the country, Europe’s largest
economy, slumped to a 32-month low.  German Confidence  “The weak PMI from  Germany  is a clear sign that the  euro
zone  is struggling to reignite growth,” Thina Saltvedt, an
analyst at Nordea Bank AB in Oslo, said by phone. “The figure
was much weaker than expected and weighs on the risk sentiment
and oil prices.”  The Ifo institute in Munich said separately that its
business climate index, based on a survey of 7,000 executives,
dropped to 100.0 in October from 101.4 in September. That’s the
sixth straight decline and the lowest reading since February
2010.  Crude rose earlier in the day before data released this
week that may show an improving economy in the U.S., the world’s
biggest crude user.  Purchases of new  homes  in the U.S. probably rose in
September to their highest level since April 2010, according to
the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 75 economists and
analysts. Sales, tabulated when contracts are signed, climbed
3.2 percent from August to a 385,000 annual pace in September,
according to the survey. The Commerce Department report is
scheduled to be released today in  Washington .  Durable Goods  Orders for  durable goods  in the U.S. rose 7.5 percent last
month, according to a separate Bloomberg survey of economists
conducted before tomorrow’s report from the Commerce Department.  The department may say on Oct. 26 that U.S. gross domestic
product grew at a 1.9 percent annual pace in the three months
ended Sept. 30, up from 1.3 percent the previous quarter,
economists forecast.  Gasoline futures climbed as much as 0.9 percent after a
ninth consecutive day of losses, the longest losing streak since
August 1987. The contract for November delivery advanced 2.04
cents to $2.6254 a gallon on the New York Mercantile Exchange,
after settling yesterday at $2.605, the lowest settlement since
June 22.  The motor fuel has dropped about 29 percent this month
after Exxon Mobil Corp.,  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO)  and Citgo Petroleum
Corp. started refinery units following outages.  U.S. Gasoline  Gasoline inventories rose in the week ended Oct. 19 while
demand fell 5 percent, the industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  said yesterday.  An Energy Department report today will probably show that
U.S. crude supplies climbed for a third week after output rose
to the highest level in more than 17 years, according to the
median of 11 analyst estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Crude inventories  grew  by 1.8 million barrels in the seven
days ended Oct. 19, the survey showed. A gain of that size would
leave stockpiles at the highest level since July. Gasoline
supplies climbed 500,000 barrels.  Oil inventories  increased by
313,000 barrels last week to  369.6 million , according to the API
report.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in  London  at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  