-- Oil Falls for Fourth Day in New York; Brent Fluctuates
-- B y   R u p e r t   R o w l i n g
-- 2012-10-23T12:47:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/oil-falls-for-fourth-day-in-new-york-brent-fluctuates-in-london.html
Crude dropped below $87 a barrel to
the lowest in almost three months in New York while  London ’s
Brent futures fell for a sixth session as companies missed sales
forecasts leading to concern about the global economic outlook.  Futures for December delivery tumbled as much as 2 percent.
Brent fell as much as 0.9 percent to the least since Oct 4.
Companies such as Posco, Asia’s third-largest steelmaker, and
Faurecia, Europe’s largest maker of car interiors, revised down
estimates. The Keystone oil pipeline won’t resume full
deliveries until next month after a halt.  “There is a correlation between the equity markets and the
oil price,” Michael Hewson, a London-based analyst at CMC
Markets, said today by phone. “We’ve had various companies
missing price forecasts and these concerns about the future
outlook for earnings is keeping a lid on oil prices.”  Crude lost $1.66 to $86.99 a barrel in electronic trading
on the New York Mercantile Exchange as of 1:40 p.m. in London.
Front-month futures are at the cheapest on an intraday basis
since Aug. 2. The November contract fell 1.5 percent yesterday
to $88.73, the lowest close since Oct. 3. Prices are down 12
percent this year.  Brent for December settlement was 91 cents lower at $108.53
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange after
losing 70 cents to settle at $109.44 yesterday. The European
benchmark’s premium to the New York-traded West  Texas 
Intermediate grade widened to $21.54 from $20.79 yesterday.  Missed Forecasts  Faurecia cut its 2012 profit outlook, forecasting a decline
in fourth-quarter European sales on a “significant” slowdown
in auto production. Posco reduced its 2012 sales forecast for
the third time this year after quarterly profit missed analyst
estimates as demand waned and prices slid.  The 590,000 barrel-a-day Keystone pipeline started
yesterday, James Millar, a  TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  spokesman based in
Calgary, said in an e-mail. Keystone will operate at reduced
pressure for 24 hours or less to complete additional testing,
Millar said. TransCanada will trim October volumes and return to
contractual delivery levels in November.  TransCanada shut Keystone on Oct. 17 after routine
maintenance testing revealed an “anomaly” on the outside of
the link. The pipe runs 2,150 miles (3,459 kilometers) from
Hardisty,  Alberta , to Wood River and Patoka,  Illinois , and to
the main U.S. oil storage hub in Cushing,  Oklahoma .  Crude Inventories  U.S. oil inventories probably advanced for a third week
after crude output climbed to the highest level in more than 17
years, according to the median of nine analyst estimates before
an Energy Department report tomorrow.  Crude inventories grew by 1.8 million barrels, or 0.5
percent, to 371 million in the seven days ended Oct. 19, the
Bloomberg survey showed. A gain of that size would leave
stockpiles at the highest level since July.  Tropical Storm Sandy was forecast to become a hurricane
tomorrow as it lingered over the southwestern Caribbean Sea,
while a second system began to develop in the Atlantic.  Sandy, with top winds of 45 miles per hour, was about 325
miles south-southwest of Kingston,  Jamaica , according to a U.S.
National Hurricane Center advisory at 8 a.m. New York time. The
system is forecast to pass east of  Florida .  Sandy is the 18th named storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season, which ties 2012 with 1969 as the fourth-most active on
record. A 19th storm is expected to develop from a tropical
depression 825 miles northeast of the Leeward Islands, with
winds of 35 mph. It’s not forecast to reach the U.S.  Export Suspension  Iran  will suspend all fuel exports, causing a sharp
increase in global crude prices, if the U.S. tightens sanctions
further on its economy, Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said.  “If you continue to add to the sanctions, we will stop our
oil exports to the world,” he said at a news conference in
Dubai. “The lack of Iranian oil in the market would drastically
add to the price.”  Gasoline also fell, dropping 2 percent to $2.5955 a gallon
in New York. Futures have fallen 22 percent this month, compared
with a 5.6 percent slide in crude.  Prices were down for a ninth day, the longest series of
declines since October 2005, on speculation that supplies will
increase as refineries start units after repairs.  Gasoline futures sank to close at the lowest level since
July 2 as Exxon Mobil Corp. resumed operations on a coker at the
Joliet, Illinois, refinery after an Oct. 19 upset.  Valero Energy
Corp. (VLO)  and Citgo Petroleum Corp. are starting units following
maintenance at the McKee and Corpus Christi, Texas, plants.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rupert Rowling in London at 
 rrowling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  