-- Holocaust Memorial for Roma, Sinti Opens After Delays
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-10-24T11:04:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/holocaust-memorial-for-roma-sinti-opens-after-delays.html
German Chancellor Angela Merkel
today inaugurated a Berlin memorial dedicated to the Roma and
Sinti people murdered by the Nazis, three years later than
scheduled and 67 years after the end of World War II.  Hundreds of thousands were persecuted as “gypsies”
between 1933 and 1945 in Nazi-occupied  Europe . Though no precise
figures are available, as many as 500,000 people are estimated
to have been killed. Roma and Sinti were subject to forced
sterilization from 1934, deported to concentration camps and
murdered both in mass shootings and gas chambers.  “This memorial acknowledges a group of victims who have
gone unacknowledged for far too long,” Merkel said at the
opening ceremony. “We cannot reverse what happened. But we can
bring remembrance of it into the very center of our society.”  The memorial by the Israeli artist Dani Karavan is a water
basin, containing a stone on which a fresh flower will be placed
each day. Karavan said he aimed to create “a place for
meditation,” and that the site in the Tiergarten, near the
Reichstag, is ideal because of its peacefulness. The memorial is
a symbol for life, sadness and memory, he said.  “I wanted to reduce it to a minimum, not to make a big
cry, but a silent whisper of pain,” Karavan said by phone from
 Tel Aviv  before today’s ceremony. “I feel very close to their
tragedy. It felt like a mission to do something for them.”  Eisenman’s ‘Stelae’  The memorial for the Roma and Sinti is the third to
commemorate victims of the Holocaust in central Berlin. Peter
Eisenman’s “ field of stelae ” in memory of the murdered Jews of
Europe opened in 2005 near the  Brandenburg Gate . A memorial to
Nazi-persecuted homosexuals opened in 2008.  The Nazis viewed the Roma and Sinti, like the Jews, as
racially inferior and stripped them of basic rights in the
Nuremberg Laws of 1935. Though Jews could be identified by
religion, the Roma and Sinti were Catholic and therefore often
harder to classify.  Heinrich Himmler,  Adolf Hitler ’s right-hand man and the
organizer of the Holocaust, ordered the Racial Hygiene Research
Unit to trace and register all Sinti and Roma in Nazi-occupied
Europe in 1938. Suspected Sinti and Roma were subjected to body
measuring and genealogical research dating back to the 16th
century.  Genocide Terror  It was decades before Germany officially recognized the
murder and suffering of the Roma and Sinti under the Nazis. In
1982, Chancellor Helmut Schmidt publicly described the terror
against them as genocide -- the first official acknowledgement.  In 1997, President Roman Herzog said the persecution of the
Roma and Sinti was the same as the terror against the Jews. In
2008, the German parliament gave final approval to Karavan’s
concept for a memorial. Disagreements over the wording on the
memorial and Karavan’s dissatisfaction with some of the
workmanship led to delays.  Karavan said he hopes the changing of the flower on the
memorial will become a ritual that people come to see. The stone
on which it is placed is a triangle, to symbolize the badges
Sinti and Roma were forced by the Nazis to wear. In the
background, Karavan said, visitors may hear a violin playing.  “Sometimes you hardly hear it,” he said. “The sound
comes from different places.”  Survivor’s Words  Members of the audience at today’s ceremony were visibly
moved by the words of Zoni Weisz, a survivor. Weisz described
how he escaped a train headed for a concentration camp with his
parents, brother and sister on board. A benign police officer
helped Weisz, then seven years old, and his aunt to slip away
unnoticed from the platform.  Weisz remembered watching the train pull out, taking the
rest of his family to their deaths.  “The world knows very little about the suffering of the
Sinti and Roma,” Weisz said. “I hope that this memorial to
what I describe as the forgotten holocaust will help it to earn
the remembrance it deserves.”  Romani Rose, who has led the  Central Council of German
Sinti and Roma  since its foundation in 1982, warned that
discrimination against the Roma and Sinti -- who have lived in
 Germany  for 600 years -- is not just a thing of the past. An
exhibition at the  Topographie des Terrors , through Oct. 27,
documents the crimes of the Nazis against the Sinti and Roma
across Europe from 1933 to 1945.  It also gives details of recent racist attacks by right-
wing extremist groups and even police in countries including
Ukraine, the Czech Republic and Albania.  “It is important to raise awareness, not just in Germany
but in Europe as a whole,” Rose said at the exhibition opening.
“Roma and Sinti are the victims of exclusion once again.
Eastern European countries must know that this is part of their
history too, and that they need to address it.”  (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Scott Reyburn  on the art market and
 Rich Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the reporter on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 