-- Thomas Edison’s Quixotic Plan for a New Monetary Policy
-- B y   D a v i d   L .   H a m m e s
-- 2012-10-23T15:52:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/thomas-edison-s-quixotic-plan-for-a-new-monetary-policy.html
During the sharp recession of 1921-
1922, Thomas Edison turned from making innovative consumer
products to reinventing the U.S. monetary system.  He was driven to economics by a sincere desire to be useful
in a crisis and by his friend Henry Ford. Ford had proposed that
the federal government issue paper dollars -- effectively zero-
interest bonds -- to finance the completion of the Wilson Dam on
the Tennessee River, which he would then buy from the
government. Ford took Edison to the dam site, and Edison was
impressed with the proposal.  Responding to Ford’s plan, Edison searched for new ways to
stabilize the dollar, the value of which had fluctuated widely
during World War I and its aftermath. His goal was to “cast the
variable out of money.” Distrusting bankers -- the “money
brokers,” he called them -- and a monetary policy based solely
on gold, Edison called for a system that used a variety of other
commodities as backing for the nation’s paper money supply. (He
would have eliminated gold entirely, but he knew that switch-
over costs and international economic ties required retaining
it, at least temporarily.)  Edison’s Plan  His plan called for the federal government to build
warehouses across the country where farmers could bring their
wheat, corn, sugar, cotton and other crops and commodities and
receive an immediate cash payment of 50 percent of each item’s
average price over the past 25 years. The farmer would also
receive standardized, marketable certificates indicating
ownership of specific quantities of the crop. For example, if
the average price of wheat was $1 per bushel, and the farmer
brought 1,000 bushels to the warehouse, he would receive $500
and 10 ownership certificates for “100 Bushels of Wheat.”  The government would store the crops for as long as a year
for a nominal fee. The farmer could sell the certificates or use
them to redeem the wheat. To redeem 100 bushels from a warehouse
would require paying $500 and surrendering the ownership
certificate. The ownership certificates would fluctuate in value
depending on spot prices, but the farmer could sell them at any
time short of one year and cash out.  Edison thought the plan would reduce risk to farmers and
give them a guaranteed amount of cash to pay off their loans.
Gone was the gold monopoly, or so he thought. With 36
commodities backing money, in addition to gold, farmers would no
longer have to dump their crops on the market at harvest time.
They would have a price floor they knew with certainty, and --
if they wished -- they could try to gain from rising prices by
holding their ownership certificates. Meanwhile, the government
was warehousing the crops.  To test the soundness of his ideas, Edison sent an involved
questionnaire to 17 economists and businessmen. The list
included O.M.W. Sprague of Harvard University, Edwin Kemmerer of
Princeton University, and William P.G. Harding, the chairman of
the Federal Reserve. The questionnaire didn’t present Edison’s
plan formally; he asked questions about various elements of it,
so the respondents had to intuit the overarching scheme. This
approach frustrated some to the point of rudeness. (Edison
scrawled “punk” across a prickly response from Henry Parker
Willis of Columbia University.)  But some responded at great length. They weren’t sanguine
about the gold standard, in the main, but they were even less so
about Edison’s plan. They thought it was costly, impractical,
subject to political manipulation, inflationary and generally
inferior to the existing monetary system. Edison thought that
they were “in a rut” and couldn’t see beyond the glitter of
gold.  Little Headway  Unintentionally, the questionnaire went “viral.” Farm
newspapers, playing on the populist sentiments of their
readership, touted the idea of “Ford-Edison” money. The news
brought the investor Bernard Baruch to Edison’s door. Edison
also had meetings with Irving Fisher of Yale University and
corresponded extensively with Roger Babson, a technical market
analyst. Despite mild encouragement from all three, and
enthusiasm from farmers across the country, Edison made little
headway with Congress or Secretary of Commerce Herbert Hoover,
whom he had been lobbying behind the scenes.  In July 1922, the  New York Times (NYT) , and its financial writer
Garet Garrett, gave Edison’s plan wide exposure and analysis.
Garrett was respectful, but no more supportive than the research
team. In a letter to the newspaper, Edison said that Garrett,
“although an extremely able man, has not got my scheme entirely
right in his mind.”  Edison soon returned to running his entertainment empire.
Although chastened by the experience, he still claimed that in
30 years his scheme would be in place and gold would be a relic
of the past as a backing for paper money.  He was right about gold: Just a decade later, President
Franklin D. Roosevelt removed it from monetary circulation. And
though Edison’s monetary scheme was never seriously considered,
well-known economists including John Maynard Keynes, Friedrich Hayek and John Nash have suggested some form of commodity-backed
money over the years. Today, with the Federal Reserve buying a
wide variety of assets to prop up the balance sheets of private
financial companies, perhaps Edison’s proposal doesn’t look that
outlandish.  (David L. Hammes is a professor of economics at the
University of Hawaii at Hilo and the author of “Harvesting Gold:
Thomas Edison’s Experiment to Re-Invent American Money.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more from Echoes  online .  Editors: Timothy Lavin, Brandon Hardin.  To contact the writer of this article: David Hammes at
 hammes@hawaii.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  