-- Monster Fall Extended After FDA Energy Drink Death Reports
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2012-10-23T22:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/monster-fall-extended-in-wake-of-fda-energy-drink-death-reports.html
Monster Beverage Corp. (MNST) , the largest
U.S. energy drink maker by sales volume, fell at least 10
percent for a second day as Goldman Sachs Group Inc. removed the
stock from its conviction buy list and Citigroup Inc. said the
argument for a takeover has “evaporated.”  The shares slid 10 percent to $41.08 at the close in  New
York , extending a 14 percent drop a day earlier that was the
largest since 2008 after U.S. regulators confirmed reports that
the company’s energy drinks were cited in the deaths of five
people in the past year. Before yesterday, Corona, California-
based Monster had gained 16 percent this year.  The victims consumed Monster drinks prior to their deaths,
according to incident reports that doctors and companies submit
to the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration . The FDA said the
incidents are considered to be allegations, and no conclusion is
drawn until an investigation is completed.  “Monster reiterates that its products are and have always
been safe,” the company said today in a statement.  Judy Hong , an analyst with Goldman Sachs, removed Monster
from a conviction buy list while still rating it a buy,
according to a note yesterday.  Wendy Nicholson, a Citigroup analyst, said in a note
yesterday that the share decline hasn’t made Monster a value
given recent performance.  “We think the fundamental case of strong and profitable
growth at Monster has weakened considerably,” she said.  Nicholson said  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s assertion last week that it
doesn’t want to invest significant capital in energy drinks
probably takes pressure off  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  to acquire Monster.  In its statement today, Monster said it doesn’t believe its
products are responsible for the death last year of a 14-year-
old from  Maryland , whose parents have sued the company.  A 24-ounce can of Monster contains 240 milligrams of
caffeine, which is about 30 percent less than the average amount
found in a 16-ounce cup of coffee house brew, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  