-- Hospital Shares Track Obama Re-Election Odds: Chart
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/hospital-shares-track-obama-re-election-odds-chart.html
Investors betting on  HCA Holdings
Inc. (HCA)  and its hospital-company brethren needn’t worry about
patient admissions or earnings. To see where the stocks may go,
just watch President  Barack Obama ’s poll numbers.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows shares of for-profit hospital
chains have closely tracked the ups and downs of Obama’s re-
election chances the past two months, as measured by
Intrade.com. As Obama’s odds jumped 8.3 percent in that time,
Nashville, Tennessee-based HCA, the biggest hospital company,
gained 3.6 percent in New York trading. A Bloomberg Industries
index of the top seven chains rose 7.3 percent.  The industry’s fate is tied to the Affordable Care Act,
Obama’s 2010 law designed to expand insurance to 32 million
people, said  Sheryl Skolnick , a CRT Capital Group analyst from
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . While the law cuts funding to hospitals,
it also will ease the cost of caring for patients who can’t pay
their bills. Obama’s opponent in the Nov. 6 election, Republican
 Mitt Romney , has vowed to repeal the measure.  With polls showing a close race, hospital shares are stuck
in a “twitchy market,” Skolnick said in an Oct. 17 note to
clients. “In the absence of a strong current fundamental and
positive view, the hospital stocks likely get whipped around
depending on whether the trade is ‘Reform On’ or ‘Reform Off.’”  That’s likely to continue even after the election is
decided, Skolnick said. Her conversations with investors suggest
hospital shares may fall 10 percent or more if Obama loses, she
said. Health insurers, which face new taxes and regulations
under the health law, may lose 10 percent if the president wins,
Skolnick said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in  New York  at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  