-- Lower Saxony Opposes French Aid for Peugeot Finance Arm
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   D a v i d   T w e e d
-- 2012-10-23T10:06:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/lower-saxony-opposes-french-aid-for-peugeot-finance-arm.html
The German state of Lower Saxony,
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s second-largest shareholder, opposes French
government aid for  PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) ’s ailing financing arm
and indicated  Germany  would ask for a European Commision review.  “VW and Lower Saxony see these state loans very critically
because they won’t help solve the problems that certain European
states have with their automotive industry,” David McAllister,
Lower Saxony’s prime minister and a VW supervisory board member,
said in an interview with Bloomberg TV in Berlin late yesterday.  Peugeot may announce a deal as soon as today in which the
French state would guarantee new loans for the carmaker’s bank
in exchange for greater government influence, a person familiar
with the matter said. Finance Minister Pierre Moscovici said
last week Peugeot may get a funding lifeline from the state.  Peugeot needs to prop up its bank to keep down borrowing
costs, which directly impacts the rates it charges customers.
The carmaker is using up cash as the European auto market heads
for its biggest annual decline in 19 years. Peugeot, whose nine-
month sales in the region dropped 13 percent, is cutting 8,000
jobs and closing a factory near Paris.  The European Commission may scrutinize the plan under state
aid rules if it gives the company an unfair financial advantage.  “It is pretty obvious what would happen,” McAllister said
when asked whether the German government would refer any French
aid for Peugeot to the European Commission for review. “We know
that the solution to the problems we have in the European
automobile industry cannot be state funds.”  Lower Saxony has 20 percent of VW’s voting rights and a
blocking minority in  Europe ’s largest automaker.  The continued review of Peugeot’s financing arm for a
possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service could lead the
bank to be rated junk. A non-investment grade rating for the
bank would increase borrowing costs and as a result worsen
financing conditions for customers and dealers.  French buyers currently pay as little as 1.9 percent annual
interest on 10,000 euros in financing from VW, the company says.
From Peugeot, the same loan would cost around 11.6 percent
annually, according to the automaker’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Tweed in London at 
 dtweed@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  