-- Toyota Motor Affiliate to Buy Cascade for $759 Million
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i
-- 2012-10-23T08:28:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/toyota-motor-affiliate-to-buy-cascade-for-759-million.html
Toyota Industries Corp. (6201) , a parts-
and-assembly affiliate of Japan’s largest carmaker, agreed to
buy U.S. forklift components maker  Cascade Corp. (CASC)  for $759
million in cash to expand in the materials-handling business.  The bid is worth $65 a share for all of Cascade, the
world’s biggest supplier of materials-handling attachments for
lift trucks, Kariya, Japan-based Toyota Industries said in a
statement yesterday. The offer is 18 percent more than Cascade’s
closing price on Oct. 19, the last trading day before the
statement.  Toyota Industries’s biggest acquisition since 2000 gives
the parts maker control of a supplier to  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the
world’s largest maker of construction and mining gear, as demand
for heavy equipment expands in  emerging markets . The deal brings
announced overseas acquisitions by Japanese companies this year
to $97 billion, exceeding the total for all of 2011, as the yen
trades near a postwar high and a stagnating domestic economy
makes overseas markets more attractive.  “This looks like a positive step forward for Toyota
Industries,”  Satoru Takada , a Tokyo-based auto analyst at
Toward the Infinite World Inc., a securities research company,
said by phone today. Cascade’s presence as a global brand
“should allow Toyota Industries to expand in emerging markets
while maintaining a competitive price for its products.”  Deal Multiples  The offer is about 19 times Cascade’s  free cash flow  as of
the end of last fiscal year, compared with the median of about
77 times for eight mining and construction equipment maker deals
over the past five years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The deal also values the company at 8 times earnings
before interest, depreciation, taxes and amortization for the 12
months ended Jan. 31, compared with the median of 10 for 11
industry deals in the past five years, the data show.  Cascade tripled net income to $63 million for the 12 months
ended Jan. 31, from $21.4 million a year earlier,  data compiled 
by Bloomberg show. Sales rose 30 percent in the year to $535.8
million, making Toyota Industries’s offer worth 1.4 times sales,
compared with the 1.8 times median of 14 deals in the past five
years, the data show.  Toyota Industries, which counts  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as its
 biggest shareholder , gained 0.6 percent to 2,323 yen at the
close in Tokyo trading. Cascade, based in Fairview,  Oregon ,
jumped 18 percent, its biggest gain since June 2011, to close at
$64.97 yesterday, after the announcement.  Nomura Advising  Nomura Holdings Inc. is advising Toyota Industries, while
Bank of America Merrill Lynch is working with Cascade. Cascade’s
board of directors has approved the offer, according  to the
statement.  Cascade may help Toyota Industries fend off competitors,
including Kion Group GmbH, the world’s second-largest maker of
forklifts. Kion is planning an initial public offering and
intends to overtake Toyota Industries as the global leader in
forklifts by 2015 or 2016, according to Kion Chief Executive
Officer Gordon Riske.  KKR & Co. (KKR)  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  are said to be
planning the Kion IPO for the second quarter of 2013, according
to people familiar with the matter.  Goldman and KKR, the buyout firm run by Henry Kravis and
 George Roberts , agreed in August to sell 25 percent of Kion to
Weichai Power Co.,  China ’s biggest maker of heavy-duty trucks.  -- Editors: Dave McCombs, Young-Sam Cho  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  