-- P&G Chief Criticized by Former Manager Before Ackman, WSJ Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-10-23T10:45:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/p-g-chief-criticized-by-former-manager-before-ackman-wsj-says.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  Chief Executive
Officer Bob McDonald faced criticism from a former manager
months before activist investor William A. Ackman took his $1.8
billion stake in the company, the Wall Street Journal reported
yesterday, citing an April 12 letter.  The missive, signed by former divisional president Gary
Martin and claiming to have the support of other P&G executives,
asked the board to split the CEO and chairman roles, the WSJ
said. The letter to P&G’s lead independent director,  Boeing Co. (BA) 
CEO Jim McNerney, was dated three months before Ackman took his
stake in the world’s biggest consumer-product maker, his largest
initial investment ever.  “At no time during our employment can any of us recall
such intense and widespread concern about the leadership and
strategic direction of the Company as is currently being openly
expressed,” the letter states, according to the Journal.  McDonald, who has lowered profit  forecasts  three times
since Jan. 1, faces scrutiny over whether his plan to save $10
billion by 2016 through cutting jobs and marketing will be
enough to improve results. Ackman plans to seek other investors
to help push for management changes or large asset sales, people
familiar with the matter said in July.  ’Lack of Innovation’  The letter cited a lack of innovation, subpar financial
results and languishing shares as a reason for concern, the WSJ
said. The letter prompted the Cincinnati-based maker of Pampers
diapers to arrange a meeting between Martin, McDonald and Chief
Financial Officer Jon Moeller, which did not result in any
specific actions, the Journal reported, citing two people
familiar with the meeting whom it did not identify.  The letter was signed only by Martin, who retired in 2001,
and also recommends the board hire an outside consultant to
conduct a confidential review of senior executives to gather
their views on strategy, leadership and morale, the WSJ said.  P&G board members are dissatisfied with McDonald’s
performance and are discussing a possible leadership change,
people familiar with the situation told Bloomberg in July. P&G
met with Ackman, founder of Pershing Square Capital Management
LP, last month and McNerney said in a Sept. 27 statement that it
supports McDonald and his plan to turn around the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  