-- Pension Funding Scare Won’t Frighten All States
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-10-23T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/pension-funding-scare-won-t-frighten-all-states.html
State and local governments,
struggling to emerge from the aftermath of the financial crisis,
face another looming funding gap: in their public pensions.
These plans hold almost $3 trillion in assets and cover more
than 10 percent of U.S. workers, so they’re an important force
in the economy.  Even under existing accounting rules, which make the
pension math look good by allowing states to apply an
artificially high discount rate to future liabilities, the
average state pension plan holds assets equal to only about
three-quarters of projected liabilities. The difference amounts
to about a half-trillion dollars.  Under a lower discount rate that has been approved by the
 Government Accounting Standards Board  and will have to be used
by mid-2014 by states that are not meeting their annual required
contributions, the difference is greater.  Using an even lower discount rate, one that many economists
prefer, the gap would be as much as $2 trillion. Any way you do
the calculation, clearly there’s a big problem.  Yet discussions about how to address it are based on flawed
assumptions. The dominant view is that large state and local
pension gaps are universal across the country, that they are
caused largely by assuming too high a discount rate in assessing
future liabilities, and that intransigent unions are to blame
for the biggest gaps.  Myth Busting  Alicia Munnell , the director of the Center for Retirement
Research at Boston College, takes on each of these myths in her
new book, “ State and Local Pensions: What Now? ” Munnell, with
whom I served in President Bill Clinton’s administration, has
devoted most of her career to pension issues.  First, she computes a funding ratio -- that is, the ratio
of assets to liabilities -- for each state plan. She finds
substantial variation: Five percent of public pension plans, for
example, were fully funded in 2010, and 35 percent had a funding
ratio of at least 80 percent. On the other hand, 12 percent of
plans had severe problems: Their assets were less than 60
percent of their projected liabilities.  The  New York  state teachers’ fund had assets fully equal to
liabilities, whereas the New York City teachers’ fund had assets
equal to 63 percent of its projected costs.  Illinois , Kentucky
and  Pennsylvania  face enormous gaps, while Delaware,  Florida ,
North Carolina and  Tennessee  have managed their pension plans
relatively well.  Why were some plans so badly underfunded and others not?
Munnell’s answer is the biggest surprise in her analysis. She
argues that neither the artificially high discount rate nor
unions can explain the variation. As she concludes, “The poorly
funded plans did not come close to surmounting the lower hurdle
associated with a high discount rate; raising the hurdle is
unlikely to have improved their behavior. And union strength
simply did not show up as a statistically significant factor in
any of the empirical analysis.”  The worst-funded plans were not especially generous in
their benefits, Munnell found, which is consistent with her
argument that union strength isn’t what matters. These plans,
though, did tend to share two characteristics: They were
disproportionately teachers’ plans, and they used a funding
method (called the projected unit credit cost method) that is
less stringent than those used by other plans.  The states with huge funding gaps have “behaved badly,”
Munnell concludes. “They have either not made the required
contributions or used inaccurate assumptions so that their
contribution requirements are not meaningful.” She added,
“Fiscal discipline simply appeared not to be part of the state’s
culture.”  Growing Burden  In pensions, as in life, what goes around comes around. In
states that have behaved well in the past -- such as  Delaware  --
the burden of pension plans will increase in future years only
modestly if at all. In contrast, a state such as Illinois, which
has perhaps the worst record of avoiding necessary funding even
while expanding benefits, will have to increase its pension
contributions sharply if it is to meet its obligations.  To get a sense of what looms, assume that, over the next
three decades, the plans will earn an average nominal return of
6 percent on their assets. In that case, Illinois will have to
raise contributions from less than 8 percent of total state
revenue in 2009 to an average of 14 percent between 2014 and
2044. Delaware, in contrast, would need to raise its
contribution by only 2 percent of state revenue. The required
adjustments in the states with problems need not, and should
not, be made overnight, but they will be a drag on state
resources for a long time.  The revelation that problems exist mainly in states that
have failed to adhere to a credible long-term funding strategy
contains a lesson for policy makers in  Washington : It is
essential to behave responsibly.  Simply hoping our long-term fiscal problems will magically
disappear is not a credible strategy. As part of the
negotiations over how to address the fiscal cliff -- the federal
spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to take effect in
January -- policy makers should combine more support for the
economy in 2013 (in the form of tax cuts and infrastructure
spending) with a specific and credible deficit reduction plan
that rolls out gradually over the next several decades.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of corporate and investment
banking at Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of
Management and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the drug shortage behind the
meningitis outbreak  and on why  Palestinians should pursue
elections before statehood ; Margaret Carlson on  why politics is
so personal  in  Massachusetts ; Clive Crook on what  Obama could
learn from Romney  about tacking to the center; Cass R. Sunstein
on  imagining yourself in 20 years ; Ronen Bergman on   Hezbollah’s
preparations for war .  To contact the writer of this article:
Peter Orszag at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 