-- Pepsi Joins Nokia in Selling Debt With Bond Risk at 1-Week High
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n
-- 2012-10-23T12:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/pepsi-and-nokia-selling-debt-as-bond-risk-rises-for-fourth-day.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the world’s largest
snack-food maker, and phone-maker  Nokia (NOK1V)  Oyj marketed bonds in
 Europe  as disappointing company earnings pushed corporate debt
risk to the highest in a week.  PepsiCo is offering 10-year bonds in pounds, the company’s
first securities in the U.K. currency, while Nokia is selling
its first convertible bonds in euros. The Markit iTraxx
Crossover Index of credit-default swaps on 50 companies with
mostly high-yield credit ratings rose 14 basis points to 512 at
1.20 p.m. in London in the fourth consecutive day of increases.  Companies from  Alfa Laval AB (ALFA) , a Swedish maker of heat
exchangers, to tea and coffee company D.E. Master Blenders have
reported sales that missed analyst estimates, a signal that
Europe’s recovery is slowing. The earnings reports helped stall
the biggest weekly rally in credit markets in more than a month.  “We’ve had an amazing run of spread compression and it’s
only natural that credit takes a bit of a breather,” said Ben Bennett, head of credit strategy at London-based  Legal & General
Group Plc. (LGEN)  “There is still good demand for new issuance,
particularly rare names or deals that provide more yield.”  PepsiCo’s 500 million pound bond will be priced to yield 87
basis points more than U.K. government debt, down from 95 basis
points in initial marketing, according to a person with
knowledge of the sale, who asked not to be identified because
they’re not authorized to speak on the matter. The spread
compares with 233 for Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Sterling
Corporate Securities Index.  A company official at PepsiCo in London declined to
comment.  Nokia Convertible  Nokia, which continues to battle falling sales and
dwindling cash, is selling bonds convertible into its own shares
to address approaching debt maturities, the company said. The
750 million euros ($978 million) of senior notes due 2017 can be
handed over for Nokia shares when the  stock  rises 28 percent to
33 percent from the current market price, according to a
statement from the Espoo, Finland-based company today.  Standard Chartered Plc, the U.K. lender, and  Italy ’s  Unione
di Banche Italiane SCPA (UBI) , are also selling bonds in euros. That’s
helping take today’s issuance to at least 3.4 billion euros,
above this year’s daily average of 2.9 billion euros, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose four basis points to 127. An
increase signals deterioration in perceptions of credit quality.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers climbed 34.9 basis points to 168,
Bloomberg prices show.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros ($13 million) of debt from default for five years
is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face
value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt
agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in  London  at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  