-- Peugeot Said to Get $9 Billion in Government Guarantees
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2012-10-23T15:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/peugeot-said-to-consider-board-seats-in-state-aid-deal.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG)  may announce a
deal as soon as today in which the French state would guarantee
as much as 7 billion euros ($9 billion) in new bonds for the
carmaker’s finance arm in exchange for greater government and
worker influence, people familiar with the matter said.  The government would back the bonds for Banque PSA Finance,
and Peugeot would appoint a labor leader and a government
representative to its board of directors, said the people, who
asked not to be identified discussing ongoing talks. A syndicate
of banks would also provide Peugeot’s financing unit with news
loans which would not have state guarantees, the people said.  Peugeot,  Europe ’s second-largest carmaker after  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , needs the state backing to keep down its borrowing costs,
which impact the rate paid by customers. The guarantees would
mark the biggest intervention by the French government in the
 auto industry  since 2009 when it provided Peugeot and  Renault SA (RNO) 
with 6 billion euros in loans.  Peugeot is using up cash as the region’s car market heads
for its biggest annual drop in 19 years. The carmaker, whose
nine-month sales in the region dropped 13 percent, said in July
it will eliminate 8,000 jobs and close a factory near Paris.
Peugeot has also sold assets and issued 1 billion euros in new
shares to raise funds.  German Opposition  The German state of  Lower Saxony , VW’s second-biggest
shareholder, said it opposes French aid for Peugeot and
indicated  Germany  would ask for a European Commision review.  “It is pretty obvious what would happen,”  David McAllister, Lower Saxony’s prime minister and VW supervisory
board member, said when asked by Bloomberg whether he’d request
a review. “VW and Lower Saxony see these state loans very
critically because they won’t help solve the problems that
certain European states have with their automotive industry.”  McAllister is a member of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s
Christian Democratic Union party. The European Commission may
scrutinize the plan under state aid rules if it gives the
company an unfair financial advantage.  The shares  dropped  15 cents, or 2.5 percent, to 5.83 euros
at the close of trading today in Paris. The stock has plunged 45
percent this year, giving the automaker a market valuation of
2.07 billion euros.  Political Concessions  The French carmaker would cut 100 fewer jobs than planned
as part of the deal, one of the people said.  “All in all, these concessions are very political and not
that penalizing for PSA, as the board will remain dominated by
the family,” said Florent Couvreur, an analyst at CM-CIC
Securities who recommends buying the shares.  The Peugeot family is the automaker’s largest shareholder.
The French carmaker earlier this year entered into a strategic
alliance with  General Motors Co. (GM)  in which GM became the second-
biggest stakeholder.  The continued review of Peugeot’s financing arm for a
possible downgrade by Moody’s Investors Service could lead the
bank to be rated junk. A non-investment grade rating for the
bank would increase borrowing costs and as a result worsen
financing conditions for customers and dealers.  The bank’s creditworthiness is “inherently linked” to
that of Peugeot’s “given the intricate strategic, commercial
and financial ties” between the two, Moody’s said July 27,
after cutting the banking unit to its lowest investment grade.
Moody’s cut Peugeot on Oct. 10 to Ba3, which is three levels
below investment grade. The service said this month that the
bank’s rating is under review.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  