-- Philippines May Cut Rate on Currency Gains Threat
-- B y   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-10-24T07:53:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/philippines-may-cut-interest-rate-as-peso-gains-threaten-exports.html
(Corrects time frame to yesterday in eighth paragraph.)  The Philippines will probably cut
 interest rates  for a fourth time this year, joining nations from
 South Korea  to Thailand in easing monetary policy to protect
growth as the peso’s gains threaten exports.  Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas  will reduce the  rate  it pays
lenders for overnight deposits by a quarter of a percentage
point to 3.5 percent, according to 14 of 21 economists  surveyed 
by  Bloomberg News  ahead of a decision tomorrow. The rest expect
the benchmark to be left unchanged at 3.75 percent.  The currency has strengthened about 6 percent this year,
undermining the nation’s  export  competitiveness. Overseas
shipments unexpectedly fell in August and Bangko Sentral
Governor Amando Tetangco said this month capital inflows pose a
short-term challenge for policy makers in  emerging markets  as
U.S. monetary easing raises the supply of dollars worldwide.  “Weakening exports, decelerating inflation and the rapid
appreciation of the peso should compel BSP to cut by another 25
basis points in their upcoming meeting,” said Emilio Neri, an
economist at Bank of the Philippine Islands in  Manila , who
previously worked at the  Asian Development Bank .  Inflation unexpectedly slowed in September, with consumer
prices rising 3.6 percent from a year earlier after gaining 3.8
percent the previous month. The central bank has room to ease as
price gains remain contained, Tetangco said earlier this month.  Benchmark seven-year bonds have gained this month on
optimism the central bank will cut rates further. Yields on the
notes fell to 4.575 percent yesterday from 4.635 percent on Sept.
28, according to the Philippine Exchange & Dealing System.  Stemming Appreciation  The peso climbed to a four-year high last week, and is
among the best performers this year of 11 Asian currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Philippine benchmark stock exchange
surged to a record this month.  Asian policy makers have acted to restrain their currencies.
The Hong Kong Monetary Authority sold the local dollar for a
second day in a week yesterday to stem appreciation after it
touched the upper limit of a 29-year-old peg to the  U.S. dollar .  Philippines had a  budget deficit  of 34.85 billion pesos in
September, with the nine-month shortfall widening to 106.06
billion pesos, according to government data today. Revenue last
month rose 0.9 percent while spending climbed 14.1 percent.  President  Benigno Aquino  is increasing spending to a record
and seeking more than $16 billion of investments in roads and
airports to spur economic growth to as much as 7 percent in 2013.
 Gross domestic product  increased 5.9 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier.  Rating Upgrades  Aquino has won sovereign-rating upgrades from  Fitch Ratings 
and Moody’s Investors Service after intensifying efforts to
narrow the budget gap from a record 314 billion pesos ($7.6
billion) in 2010. A deal with Muslim rebels earlier this month
to end a four-decade insurgency in the mineral-rich south is
expected to draw more investors, after pledges this year from
Glencore International Plc, the world’s biggest publicly traded
commodities supplier and alternative fuel company Gazasia Ltd.  Asian economies have loosened monetary and fiscal policies
this year as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs the region’s expansion.
Thailand and South Korea cut interest rates this month after the
 International Monetary Fund  reduced its global growth forecasts
and warned of “alarmingly high” risks of a deeper slowdown.  “In addition to the weak global outlook which has
depressed exports, the central bank is also concerned about
rapid capital inflows which have put upward pressure on the
peso,” said Gareth Leather, a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang in Singapore at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  