-- Pimco Exiting Bank Debt as Rally Is ‘Mostly Over,’ Kiesel Says
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-10-23T16:48:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/pimco-exiting-bank-debt-as-rally-is-mostly-over-kiesel-says.html
Pacific Investment Management Co. is
selling financial debt following a rally that the world’s
largest bond-fund manager predicted.  “Because the valuations have changed, we’re no longer as
excited about the return prospect,”  Mark Kiesel , global head of
corporate bond portfolios at Pimco said, in an interview at
Bloomberg headquarters in  New York .  U.S. bank bonds have outperformed the broad investment-
grade corporate bond market this year, returning 13.7 percent
compared with a 9.9 percent gain, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. Kiesel wrote in a July 2011  report  entitled
“Sunlight on U.S. Banks” that the debt of those lenders would
gain because of deleveraging and stronger global banking
regulations.  “The rally in financial debt is mostly over,” Kiesel said
in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with
Scarlet Fu and  Stephanie Ruhle . “We’re taking profits; we’re
reducing our exposure overall.”  The  fund manager  is replacing bank debt with that of
homebuilders as the number of houses for sale declines and
buyers aren’t as concerned that prices will fall further, Kiesel
said. Other growth sectors include emerging-market banks and
pipeline companies, which are benefiting from increased oil
production, he said.  “The energy sector to me is one of the greatest
opportunities for investors in the next three to five years,”
Kiesel said.  Banks in Brazil, Mexico, and Peru are more likely to
generate earnings growth because loans make up a smaller percent
of these economies and the lenders tend to be highly
capitalized, Kiesel said.  “When you look at the relative value, the emerging market
banks in these countries look very cheap,” Kiesel said. “While
the U.S. banks have rallied significantly, the emerging-market
banks look very compelling from a valuation perspective.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in New York at 
 Mrobinson55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 