-- Posco Cuts Sales Forecast as Earnings Miss Estimates
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-10-23T08:58:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/posco-cuts-sales-forecast-as-earnings-miss-estimates.html
Posco (005490) ,  Asia ’s third-biggest
steelmaker by output, cut its 2012 sales forecast for the third
time this year after quarterly profit missed analyst estimates
as demand waned and prices declined.  Sales on a parent basis may drop to 36.3 trillion won
($32.9 billion) this year, compared with the July estimate of
37.5 trillion won, the Pohang, South Korea-based company said in
a regulatory filing today. Parent  net income  was 744 billion won
in the three months ended Sept. 30, less than the 753.6 billion
won average of 17  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe ’s debt crisis and  China ’s economic slowdown have
curtailed demand growth for the alloy, squeezing profit margins
at steelmakers.  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Services yesterday cut
Posco’s rating, saying its operating performance this year
“will likely be weaker” than previously expected. Earnings
this quarter may be less than the third quarter because of an
oversupply and weak demand, Posco said today.  “Global demand including in China is really sluggish so it
will take a while before the  steel industry  could recover,” Im
Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas
Asset Management Co., which oversees about $31 billion, said by
telephone today. “For now, many investors appear to have a
pessimistic outlook.”  Posco fell 2.1 percent to close at 348,500 won in Seoul
trading today, the lowest since March 19, 2009, after
yesterday’s rating cut by Standard & Poor’s.  The stock  has
fallen 8.3 percent this year, under-performing the 5.5 percent
advance in the benchmark  Kospi (KOSPI)  index. The earnings announcement
came after the stock market closed.  Missing Estimates  Operating profit fell about 25 percent to 819 billion won
in the third quarter, missing the 865.7 billion won average of
19 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Operating profit
margin was 9.2 percent in the quarter, compared with 10.9
percent a year earlier, the company said.  Posco’s average price of plates, used in ships and
machinery, declined 17 percent in the quarter from a year
earlier, the steepest among its products, Kim Kang Oh, an
analyst with Hanwha Investment & Securities Co. estimated in a
Sept. 28 report. Benchmark hot-rolled coils dropped 10 percent,
according to the report.  Global ship orders dropped 53 percent in the first nine
months of this year to 31.1 million deadweight tons, according
to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s biggest shipbroker. That is the
smallest nine-month tally since 1999.  World steel demand may expand 2 percent to 3 percent a year
through 2013, Posco said today. Raw material prices may gain in
the second-half of next year driven by China, it said.  Weaker Earnings  “The recovery of the steel industry is being delayed
because the global economy remains in the doldrums due to fiscal
crisis in advanced economies,” Posco Chief Financial Officer
Park Ki Hong told investors today. “Fourth-quarter earnings may
weaken from the previous quarter since oversupply hasn’t been
eased, although we expect that won’t be a sharp drop.”  Fourth-quarter contract prices for  iron ore  and coal
dropped from third-quarter levels, with iron ore set at $117 a
ton and hard coking coal at $170 a ton, the company said today.  Crude steel output rose 2 percent to 9.66 million metric
tons in the third quarter, while sales increased 2.8 percent to
8.93 million tons, the company said.  The Korean steel company today cut parent-basis capital
expenditure for this year to 3.9 trillion won from the previous
target of 4.2 trillion won.  Posco is the world’s fourth-biggest steel producer by 2011
output according to  rankings  on the website of the World Steel
Association. It is Asia’s largest producer after Hebei Iron &
Steel Group and Baosteel Group Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Madelene Pearson at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  