-- Priciest Malaysian Phone Stocks Get Top Fund to Ride Gain
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n ,   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-10-24T09:32:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/priciest-malaysian-phone-stocks-attract-top-fund-southeast-asia.html
Investor demand for bigger dividends
and smaller stock swings has pushed Malaysian telecommunications
shares to record valuations and convinced at least one of the
nation’s top-ranked fund managers the rally isn’t over.  The  MSCI Malaysia Telecommunication Services Index (MXMY0TC)  has
climbed to 24 times estimated earnings, the highest level since
Bloomberg began tracking the data in 2006 and the most expensive
among peers in emerging and advanced nations. Telecommunications
shares pay the biggest dividends of nine industries in  Malaysia ,
where stock  volatility  is lower than any major market worldwide.  While Samsung Asset Management Co. is avoiding the
companies after valuations surged, Hwang Investment Management
Bhd.’s David Ng says he’s hanging on to shares of  Axiata Group
Bhd. (AXIATA)  and  DiGi.Com Bhd. (DIGI)  that rallied at least 29 percent this
year and helped his  Hwang Select Dividend Fund (HWDBDIV)  beat 97 percent
of peers. The companies, which benefit from growing demand for
smartphones in  Southeast Asia ’s third-biggest economy, pay
dividend yields that exceed returns on Malaysian bonds.  “Dividend stocks have done well because a lot of these
businesses are more stable,” Ng, who oversees the equivalent of
$5.6 billion as the chief investment officer of Hwang Investment
in Kuala Lumpur, said in a phone interview on Oct. 16.
“Investors just want income and certainty.”  Riskless Return  The MSCI Malaysia telecommunications index has  surged  32
percent this year, the most among nine industry gauges and about
six times more than the 5.6 percent increase for the broader
 MSCI Malaysia Index. (MXMY)  The measure of telecommunications companies
climbed 3.8 percent when adjusted for volatility, the top risk-
adjusted return among MSCI Inc.’s  telecommunications  indexes in
41 nations, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The MSCI Malaysia telecommunications index rose 0.2 percent
today to its highest close since Oct. 19.  Telekom Malaysia Bhd. (T) 
and  Maxis Bhd. (MAXIS)  were among the top gainers on the benchmark FTSE
Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index, which climbed 0.2 percent to a
record. The MSCI Emerging Markets Telecommunications Services
Index rose as much as 0.6 percent, the  only gainer  among 10
industries in the broader MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  The rally in Malaysia has been fueled by increased revenue
from mobile data services, which may continue as smartphone
prices fall in the nation of 29 million people, according to K&N
Kenanga Holdings Bhd., an investment banking group partly owned
by Deutsche Bank AG, in a report dated Oct. 18.  Weak global growth has also boosted the appeal of companies
whose profits are more resilient during economic slowdowns,
according to Ng, who also owns shares of Kuala Lumpur-based
Maxis, Malaysia’s second-biggest telecommunications company by
market value. His Hwang Select Dividend Fund has  returned  26
percent this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sustainable Dividends  Per-share earnings for the MSCI Malaysia Index’s
telecommunications gauge have  climbed  25 percent during the past
12 months, twice as much as the 12 percent increase for the
broader MSCI measure, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Dividends for the telecommunications index increased 26 percent,
while they fell 8 percent for the broader measure of Malaysian
shares.  “Malaysia telecoms are doing well because of dividends,”
 Mark Mobius , who oversees about $48 billion as the executive
chairman at Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said in an Oct. 12
interview in  Singapore . “In the long run, this will sustain.”  DiGi, controlled by Norway’s Telenor ASA,  reported  a 7.8
percent increase in third-quarter profit to 315.4 million
ringgit ($103 million), driven by an increase in mobile Internet
customers, it said in a statement yesterday. The company
announced a special  dividend  of 8 sen a share on top of an
interim dividend of 4 sen.  Recovery Signs  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak cut personal income
tax, raised civil servants’ minimum pensions and repeated cash
handouts to low-income households in his budget speech last
month, after increasing civil servants’ salaries in the past
year to boost domestic consumption.  An increase in investor appetite for riskier securities may
hurt the performance of Malaysian telecommunication stocks,
Anthony Yau, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian  Emerging Markets 
Active Equity at  State Street Global Advisors , said in an Oct.
17 e-mail.  Reports last week signaled  China ’s economic growth picked
up in September, while U.S housing starts surged to a four-year
high. Malaysia’s expansion unexpectedly accelerated in the
second quarter as construction and consumption increased. The
Malaysian Institute of  Economic Research  raised this month its
forecast for growth next year to 5.4 percent from a 4.7 percent
estimate in July.  Yields Falling  Dividend yields have fallen as the stocks rallied. The
average yield of stocks in the MSCI Malaysia telecommunication
index has dropped to 3.9 percent from 4.3 percent a year ago,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Their yield advantage
over  government bonds  shrank to about 0.5 percentage points from
0.7 percentage points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  GBI-
EM Malaysia index .  “It’s probably starting to get a bit excessive now in
terms of valuations,”  Alan Richardson , who helps oversee about
$82 billion for Samsung Asset Management, said by phone from
Singapore on Oct. 16.  Yields for Malaysia’s telecommunications shares are still
higher than the 2.7 percent average payout for companies in the
MSCI Malaysia index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Malaysian government-linked funds that invest most of their
money in local markets may provide support for
telecommunications shares and curb volatility, according to Tan Lip Kwang, who helps manage the equivalent of $1 billion at K&N
Kenanga. Local institutions accounted for 48 percent of the 31.5
billion ringgit of shares traded on the Malaysian exchange last
month, compared with 28 percent by foreigners, according to data
on Bursa Malaysia’s website.  ‘Safe Harbors’  The 30-day historical  volatility  for the MSCI Malaysia
Index, a measure of share swings, was 7.6 yesterday, the lowest
among MSCI indexes in developed and emerging markets, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The structure of our market means participation is mostly
by government-linked companies,” Tan said by phone. “During
all these uncertainties, they need to find some safe harbors to
park their money, and telco is one of them.”  The Employees Provident Fund, Malaysia’s largest pension
fund, owns a 12 percent  stake  in Axiata, the nation’s biggest
listed telecommunications company by market value, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The fund holds 7.2 percent of Maxis
and 16 percent of DiGi.  All three stocks have dividend yields of at least 3.4
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “We are not selling,” said Hwang Investment’s Ng. “So
long as  interest rates  remain low around the world, and so long
as inflation remains well-behaved, then the demand for yield
will continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  