-- Trader Drops Wall Street, Writes Thriller About Bank Scam
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2012-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/trader-drops-wall-street-writes-thriller-about-bank-scam.html
“Not all sales managers are bottom-
feeding lowlifes,” writes Michael Sears in his  Wall Street 
thriller, “Black Fridays.”  “The politicians are the ones who last -- the two-fisted
hand-shakers, the ass-kissers, the promise-breakers, the glory-
hounds, the self-promoters.”  Sears should know. After a stint as an actor, he spent two
decades in the bond business. Now, at 62, he’s published his
first novel, starring former hotshot Jason Stafford, who was
sent to prison for “accounting irregularities.”  After serving his two-year term, Stafford starts a new
career as an investigator for an investment firm.  We spoke at Bloomberg world headquarters in  New York .  Lundborg: There you were onstage, voicing “To be or not to
be,” and suddenly Wall Street beckoned?  Sears: My phone rang late at night -- can I be at this club
at 6 a.m. for a call wearing my disco outfit?  I was 30 years old and a trained classical actor, and I
thought, “What am I doing? Where am I going?”  Free Money  Lundborg: How did you make the transition from acting to
trading?  Sears: Through a  Columbia  MBA -- I went back to school.  Lundborg: What was the best part of being on Wall Street?  Sears: I would get really charged up. It was fun watching
for an opportunity when it was panic all around.  Lundborg: So why leave?  Sears: I developed all kinds of physical things that were
feeding on stress -- back issues and various other things. And I
realized the mental muscles and the physical muscles were worn
out. I was done.  Lundborg: What inspired your plot?  Sears: I was reading the Wall Street Journal and saw the
names of some people I knew from way back -- they’d just been
pulled in on this very large conspiracy for what really wasn’t a
lot of money.  Some of these guys were making a couple of million dollars
a year every year and so they were putting a couple of hundred
thousand dollars aside or something. It was like, why?  Lundborg: Free money?  Sears: Free money and they never thought they’d get caught.
And except for a couple of accidents, they wouldn’t have gotten
caught. It went on for decades. It could’ve gone on for decades
more.  Lundborg: When Jason walks onto a trading floor, he feels
“younger, smarter and fearless.” You say money moving quickly
is a drug that doesn’t leave your system.  Testosterone Boost  Sears: It’s an adrenaline boost, it’s probably a
testosterone boost, and it’s not just on trading floors.  When I walk on the streets of  Hong Kong , I feel the same
way about it. It’s transactions everywhere happening all the
time and the sight of so many Rolls Royces on tiny little
streets.  Lundborg: There are always rock-star positions on Wall
Street: one decade it’s investment bankers, another it’s hedge
fund managers. What’s the best job now?  Sears: I think we’re going through a big sea change. There
was a lot of financial engineering that we created through the
1980s and ’90s, and I don’t think the technology or the
creativity is there to do a whole lot more with any of that.  I don’t think right now there’s a sexy place to be on Wall
Street. For the next few years or possibly the next decade, it’s
going to be a different environment.  Lundborg: Your next book is about Ponzi schemes -- is it
inspired by Madoff?  Sears: It’s a combination. The book opens with Jason being
hired by the family of a man who ran a huge Ponzi scheme to find
missing money. Not everyone in the family is happy about his
presence.  Through this, we get to explore how the Ponzi scheme
affects a lot of other people and how many lives are really
turned upside down.  To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of  Bloomberg News . The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on  books  and  Peter
Rainer  on  film .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 