-- Rajoy Sees Case for Slowing EU-Driven Austerity
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-10-24T09:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/rajoy-sees-case-for-slowing-spain-s-austerity-as-economy-shrinks.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
said there is a case for easing budget-deficit targets set by
the European Union as the  recession  undermines tax revenue.  “I think what a lot of other people think,” Rajoy told
the Spanish senate yesterday. “Things could be done more
calmly, taking into account especially that we are in a
recession, but in any case I can’t give up on  Spain ’s
commitments.”  Rajoy’s comments undercut Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro’s insistence that Spain can stick to the path of budget
consolidation demanded by the EU even after the Bank of Spain
said the euro area’s fourth-largest economy contracted for a
fifth quarter between July and October.  “In 2012, we definitively will comply with our target,”
Montoro said as he presented the 2013 budget to the Parliament
in  Madrid . The EU has set Spain a deficit goal of 6.3 percent of
gross domestic product this year, after overspending amounted to
9.4 percent last year, the same as  Greece ’s and the second-
highest shortfall behind Ireland.  ‘Important Step’  Spanish bonds fell for a fourth day after Moody’s cut the
credit ratings of five regions and the Bank of Spain said the
recession will worsen in coming months and jeopardize budget
targets. Spain’s 10-year  borrowing costs  rose 6 basis points to
5.7 percent at 11:40 a.m. in Madrid, compared with 5.3 percent
before European leaders dismissed discussing further aid for the
country last week.  Rajoy didn’t mention seeking aid even as he praised the
 European Central Bank ’s offer to help lower countries’ borrowing
costs.  “The ECB has set up a mechanism to purchase a country’s
bonds in the secondary market if it requests it, that’s an
important step forward,” he said.  ECB Governing Council member Ardo Hansson today told
reporters in Tallinn,  Estonia , that it can’t be ruled out that
Spain may be able to avoid a bailout. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos yesterday told lawmakers that Spain’s access to funding
has improved.  “We are starting to see foreign investors coming back to
back Spanish debt purchases,” he said. “That is fundamentally
due to two reasons -- because the government is doing what it
has to do, and because we are all acting to dissipate doubts on
the euro’s future.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  