-- Rand Declines to One-Week Low as Stocks Drop With Commodities
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-10-23T14:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/rand-declines-as-yields-rise-on-concern-slowdown-hurting-profits.html
The rand declined to the lowest in a
week as metal prices declined, damping  South Africa ’s outlook
for income from exports. Bond yields fell for a sixth day.  The rand retreated as much as 1.5 percent to 8.7722 per
dollar, the weakest since Oct. 16. It traded 1.2 percent weaker
at 8.7395 a dollar as of 3:30 p.m. in Johannesburg, the worst
performance out of 16 major market currencies monitored by
Bloomberg. Yields on 6.75 percent bonds due March 2021 dropped
one basis point to 6.61 percent.  Commodities declined, erasing this year’s gain, as slowing
global economic growth may curb demand for raw materials even as
central banks pledge more stimulus. Copper fell to the lowest
level in more than six weeks after  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  said it has cut
its output because of a slowdown in China and before a report
forecast to show euro-area  consumer confidence  stayed at the
lowest level since May 2009. Metals and other commodities
account for 45 percent of South Africa’s exports.  “As long as commodity prices remain soft, the rand will
stay on the back-foot,” Bruce Donald, a currency strategist at
Standard Bank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, wrote in a note e-
mailed to clients today. “The risk premium built into the rand
will likely remain in place” over the next three to six months,
he said.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of raw materials fell for
a third day to the lowest in more than two months. South
Africa’s benchmark stock  index  dropped as shares in commodity
exporters, including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL) ,
slumped.  Corporate Health  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest maker of construction
and mining equipment, yesterday forecast sales growth for 2013
that would be slower than in the previous three years as the
global economy decelerates, while  General Electric Co. (GE)  cut its
2012 sales target and quarterly profit at  McDonald’s Corp. (MDC)  fell
the most in more than three years. The U.S. is South Africa’s
third-biggest trading partner after China and Japan.  “Weaker-than-expected corporate earnings announcements out
of the U.S. weighed on sentiment,”  John Cairns  and Josina Solomons, currency strategists at Rand Merchant Bank in
Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “The disappointments
fueled concern over the health of corporate America.”  Continuing labor unrest at South African gold mines
contributed to the rand’s decline, said Danny Pienaar, a
currency trader at Tradition UK Ltd. Gold Fields Ltd., Harmony
Gold Mining Co. Ltd. and AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. have issued
ultimatums for striking workers to return to work.  “Some negative news flow coming out of the mining sector”
together with demand for dollars from South African importers
helped push the rand weaker, Pienaar said by phone from
Johannesburg.  Foreign investors sold a net 167 million rand ($19.1
million) of South African bonds yesterday, according to JSE Ltd.
data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  