-- RBC, TD Bank Go on Buying Spree to Bolster Slowing Profit
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k   a n d   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-10-23T20:23:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/rbc-td-bank-go-on-buying-spree-to-bolster-slowing-profit.html
Royal Bank of Canada  and  Toronto-
Dominion Bank (TD)  announced purchases today of almost $20 billion in
combined assets from U.S. companies to bolster profit ahead of a
slowdown in domestic consumer lending.  Royal Bank, the nation’s largest lender, plans to buy  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s Canadian auto-finance and deposit business in a
deal that Ally said will generate $4.1 billion for the Detroit-
based lender. Toronto-Dominion agreed to acquire  Target Corp. (TGT) ’s
$5.9 billion U.S. credit-card portfolio for an amount equal to
the gross value of the outstanding loans at the time the deal is
completed, the firms said.  Canadian lenders, ranked as the soundest for the past five
years by the World Economic Forum, are seeking to bolster
domestic consumer-banking profits next year with household debt
at record highs.  “The banks are more optimistic than I expected in 2013,”
 Peter Routledge , an analyst with National Bank Financial, said
in a phone interview. “To me it’s a sign of optimism.”  Royal Bank  fell  2.8 percent to C$56.94 in Toronto, leading
the decline among Canadian banks. Toronto-Dominion  dropped  1
percent to C$82.09.  The total price for Ally’s business will range from C$3.1
billion ($3.1 billion) to C$3.8 billion, depending on the size
of a dividend taken by Ally before the deal is completed, the
Canadian lender said in a statement. It would be the largest
takeover ever for Royal Bank, eclipsing a $2.16 billion purchase
of Centura Banks in 2001.  ‘Good Risk-Return’  “Auto loans came through the crisis as a very, very good
asset,” Routledge said. “It was profitable, credit quality was
better than people expected, yields were decent so it’s good
risk-return. It just seems to me like a good asset for Royal
Bank.”  RBC Chief Executive Officer Gordon Nixon has said Royal
Bank would explore “strategic acquisitions” amid a slowdown in
Canadian consumer lending. The company posted a record C$1.13
billion profit at its domestic-banking unit in the third
quarter, fueled by increasing deposits, mortgages and loans.  “Of the deals that we’ve looked at in  Canada , this was one
that we really wanted,” Nixon, 55, said today in a conference
call.  Ally, which said it’s getting $620 million above
liquidation value, put its non-U.S. operations up for sale in
May to help repay a $17.2 billion taxpayer bailout that left the
U.S. government with a  74 percent stake .  ResMor Trust  Royal Bank said it expects the Ally Canada business to
generate C$120 million in profit, excluding C$50 million in one-
time costs, and “modestly” add to per-share earnings in the
first year.  The transaction includes Ally’s ResMor Trust unit, which
had $3.8 billion in deposits and $4.2 billion in assets at the
end of September. ResMor’s deposits come at a cost, according to
Dave McKay, RBC’s group head of personal and commercial banking.
Ally’s high-interest savings account pays 1.8 percent, compared
with 1.2 percent at Royal Bank, he said.  RBC eventually may resell the ResMor unit, with Home
Capital Group Inc. and Canadian Western Bank as possible
suitors, Michael Goldberg, a Desjardins Securities analyst, said
today in a note to clients.  “We’re not sure yet how to manage the business going
forward,” McKay said in an interview. “We’re not going to
discount any option at this point.”  Target Cards  Toronto-Dominion’s pact with Minneapolis-based Target
“will significantly expand our presence in the North American
credit-card business,” Toronto-Dominion CEO  Edmund Clark , 65,
said in a statement.  TD agreed to a seven-year deal to underwrite, fund and own
consumer loans made with the retailer’s Target- and Visa Inc.-
branded credit cards in the U.S.  “We think it makes financial sense, because it leverages
our deposit base,” said Michael Rhodes, Toronto-Dominion’s
executive vice-president of North American credit cards and
merchant services. “It makes strategic sense because we have a
lot of interest in expanding our North American card business.”  Toronto-Dominion, which has more branches in the U.S. than
Canada, said the transaction will help it meet a forecast for
$1.6 billion in U.S. consumer-banking  profit  by next year.  “TD has been looking for assets in which to deploy its
significant liquidity in the U.S.,” said John Aiken, an analyst
at Barclays Plc in Toronto.  Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, said
about 90 percent of proceeds from the sale will be used to pay
off debt, and the rest for repurchasing shares.  The retailer will record a pretax gain of about $150
million in the third quarter and an additional $350 million to
$450 million when the deal is completed, the company said.
Target suspended the sale of the card portfolio in January after
failing to find a buyer for a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net ;
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  