-- RBC to Buy Ally Canadian Operations in $4.1 Billion Deal
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r ,   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-10-23T14:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/rbc-to-buy-ally-canadian-operations-in-4-1-billion-deal.html
Royal Bank of Canada , the nation’s
largest lender, agreed to buy  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY) ’s Canadian
auto-finance and deposit business in a cash deal providing $4.1
billion in proceeds to Ally.  Royal Bank will buy the Ally business for a C$1.4 billion
($1.4 billion) investment net of excess capital, the Toronto-
based lender said today in a statement. RBC said the total price
will be C$3.1 billion to C$3.8 billion, depending on the size of
a dividend taken out by Ally prior to closing. The deal is the
largest  takeover  ever for Royal Bank, eclipsing a $2.16 billion
purchase of Centura Banks in 2001.  “Auto loans came through the crisis as a very, very good
asset,”  Peter Routledge , an analyst with National Bank
Financial, said in a telephone interview. “It was profitable,
 credit quality  was better than people expected, yields were
decent so it’s good risk-return. It just seems to me like a good
asset for Royal Bank.”  Chief Executive Officer  Gordon Nixon , 55, has said Royal
Bank would explore “strategic acquisitions” amid a slowdown in
Canadian consumer lending. The company posted a record C$1.13
billion profit at its domestic-banking unit in the third
quarter, fueled by increasing deposits, mortgages and loans.  Ally is getting $620 million above liquidation value, the
Detroit-based company said in a statement. Ally put its non-U.S.
operations up for sale in May to help repay a $17.2 billion
government bailout that left the U.S. with a 74 percent stake.  Shares Fell  Royal Bank  fell  3.2 percent to C$56.70 at 9:41 a.m. in
Toronto. The shares have gained 9.1 percent this year.  Royal Bank expects the Ally  Canada  business to generate
C$120 million in net income on a standalone basis in the first
12 months after closing, the lender said. The takeover is
expected to “modestly” add to per-share earnings in its first
year, the bank said.  “The combination of Ally and RBC presents a great
opportunity for profit growth and business growth in Canadian
banking,” Dave McKay, RBC’s group head of personal and
commercial banking, said today in a conference call.  RBC is buying a business that offers inventory financing to
more than 580 auto dealerships across Canada, the lender  said .
RBC said it will have C$24 billion in auto loans receivables and
offer financing to more than 890 dealerships after this
transaction, expected to close in the first quarter of 2013.  General Motors  Royal Bank also said it agreed with  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s
Canadian unit to become a provider for low-rate consumer auto
loans subsidized by the manufacturer.  Royal Bank and competitor  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  had shown
interest in Ally’s Canadian operations, a person with knowledge
of the matter said last month.  RBC’s Ally announcement came 20 minutes before Toronto-
Dominion said in a statement it agreed to buy the $5.9 billion
U.S. credit-card portfolio of Minneapolis-based  Target Corp. (TGT)   Bank of Nova Scotia  offered in August to buy the Canadian
banking operations of  ING Groep NV (INGA)  for C$3.1 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  