-- Treasuries Gain as Earnings Renew Recovery Doubts
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-10-23T15:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/treasuries-snap-loss-on-outlook-for-federal-reserve.html
Treasuries advanced as investors
sought the safety of government securities as lower-than-
forecast results from global corporations cast doubt about the
strength of the economic recovery.  Longer-maturity debt led the gains as the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index declined for the third time in four days after
disappointing earnings from companies from 3M Co. to DuPont Co.
Yields on benchmark  10-year notes  climbed yesterday above the
200-day moving average of 1.805 percent, attracting buyers.  “We have a little bit of a technically driven rally in the
Treasury market,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist
at Janney Montgomery Scott LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees
$12 billion in fixed income assets. “Earnings have also been
pretty poor this morning. It looks like industrial earnings and
the downward guidance from several companies are pretty
disappointing.”  The U.S. 10-year note  yield  fell five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 1.76 percent at 11:27 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The 1.625 percent note
due August 2022 gained 15/32, or $4.69 per $1,000 face amount,
to 98 25/32. The all-time low rate was 1.38 percent set on July
25.  The yield touched 1.82 percent earlier, having reached 1.83
percent on Oct. 18, the highest since Sept. 18.  Auction Metrics  The U.S. is selling $35 billion of two-year notes today,
the same amount of five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion of
seven-year notes on Oct. 25.  The Sept. 25 offering’s bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges
demand by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was
3.6, down from 3.94 the previous month. The average ratio for
the past 10 auctions was 3.73.  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 27.2 percent of the notes at the
September sale after purchasing 22.3 percent at the August
offering.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 17.5 percent of
the notes at the last sale, compared with an average of 12.2
percent at the past 10.  “The backup in yields may bring back foreign buyers and
make for a slightly above average auction,”  George Goncalves ,
head of interest-rate strategy at Nomura Holdings Inc., one of
primary dealers that are required to bid at the auction, wrote
in a note to clients. “However, yield levels are still not
compelling by any means.”  Spanish Ratings  Treasuries were also buoyed after Moody’s Investors Service
cut the ratings of five Spanish regions late yesterday and the
nation’s economy shrank for a fifth quarter, adding pressure on
Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy to seek European aid.
Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose 13 basis points to 5.62 percent.  “We are seeing risk-off markets and safe haven buying as
global equities are down with global economic concern and
uncertainties continuing,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government-debt trading at
R.W.Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “The Spanish situation underscores
that there are still a lot of problems.”  The Federal Reserve is expected to reiterate the need for
low borrowing costs at the end of a two-day policy meeting that
starts today.  Expanded Measures  At its last meeting, which ended on Sept. 13, the Fed
announced it will buy $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities
a month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs. It also
said it will probably keep its target for overnight borrowing
between banks near zero at least through the middle of 2015.  All 21 primary dealers expect it to expand stimulus
measures before year-end to include purchases of government
securities, according to a survey of the bond traders last week
by Bloomberg News.  The Fed is also swapping short-term Treasuries in its
holdings for longer-term securities to cap yields as part of its
efforts to spur the economy. The central bank sold
$7.8 billion of Treasuries due from June 2015 to August 2015
today, according to the Fed Bank of New York’s  website .  A report on Oct. 25 will show orders for durable goods
increased by 7.5 percent last month, a separate survey predicts.  Spain’s Regions  Moody’s, a week after deciding against cutting Spain’s
credit-rating to below investment grade, lowered Catalonia and
four other Spanish regions yesterday.  Spain’s gross domestic product shrank 0.4 percent from the
previous three months, matching the contraction of the second
quarter, the Bank of Spain said in  Madrid  today. That compares
with a median forecast for a 0.7 percent drop in a Bloomberg
News survey of 10 economists.  Treasuries have returned 1.5 percent in 2012, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Bonds in an index of U.S.
investment-grade and high-yield debt rallied 11 percent.  The  difference  between five-year  interest-rate swaps  and
same-maturity Treasury yields narrowed to as little as 9.8 basis
points, the least since March 2010.  Investors use swaps to exchange fixed and floating
interest-rate obligations. The spread between the fixed
component and the Treasury rate narrows as demand for higher-
yielding assets increases.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  