-- Treasury Two-Year Notes Attract Record Direct Demand
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 2012-10-23T21:18:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/treasuries-remain-higher-after-35-billion-two-year-auction.html
Treasuries rose as concern the U.S.
economic recovery is faltering drove record demand from a group
of investors that includes pension funds and insurance companies
at the government’s auction of $35 billion of two-year notes.  Direct bidders, or institutional investors outside the 21
securities firms required to participate in U.S. debt auctions,
bought 38.2 percent of the notes. That compares with an average
of 12.2 percent at the past 10 auctions. The notes were sold at
a yield of 0.295 percent, compared with a forecast of 0.304
percent in a  Bloomberg News  survey of seven of the  Federal
Reserve ’s primary dealers.  “The general backdrop is all bullish for the  bond market ,
with the fiscal cliff approaching, continued uncertainty in
 Europe , the threat of slowing global growth and the U.S.
election,” said  Scott Graham , head of government bond trading
at  Bank of Montreal (BMO) ’s BMO Capital Markets primary dealer unit in
 Chicago . “The uncertainty is keeping Treasuries well bid.”  Ten-year note  yields  fell six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 1.76 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. The prices of the 1.625
percent note due in August 2022 rose 16/32, or $5 per $1,000 per
face value, to 98 25/32.  Yields on the current  benchmark  0.25 percent two-year notes
due in September 2014 fell two basis points to 0.29 percent. The
notes sold today mature in October 2014 and yielded 0.3 percent
in when-issued trading prior to the auction.  Corporate Earnings  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 4.02,
compared with an average of 3.73 for the past 10 sales.  Treasuries advanced earlier as lower-than-forecast results
from global corporations cast doubt about the strength of the
economic recovery. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined for
the third time in four days after disappointing earnings from
companies from 3M Co. to DuPont Co.  “We are seeing risk-off markets and safe haven buying as
global equities are down with global economic concern and
uncertainties continuing,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in  New York  of government-debt trading at
R.W.Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors.  The Fed has been replacing $267 billion of short-term debt
in its portfolio with longer-term Treasuries.  Quantitative Easing  “We are getting near the end of Operation Twist, and the
amount of two-year notes that the Fed can sell is running out at
a time when liquidity is still in demand,” BMO’s Graham said.  At its last meeting, which ended on Sept. 13, the Fed
announced it will buy $40 billion of mortgage-backed securities
a month to put downward pressure on borrowing costs. It also
said it will probably keep its target for overnight borrowing
between banks near zero at least through the middle of 2015.  All 21 primary dealers expect the Fed to expand stimulus
measures before year-end to include purchases of  government
securities , according to a survey of the bond traders last week
by Bloomberg News. The central bank is also swapping short-term
Treasuries in its holdings for longer-term securities to cap
yields as part of its efforts to spur the economy.  Indirect bidders, an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 33.5 percent of the two-year notes,
compared with an average of 30.2 percent for the past 10 sales.  Two-year notes have returned 0.1 percent this year,
compared with a 1.5 percent gain by Treasuries overall,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  Spanish Downgrades  The Treasury will auction $35 billion of 5-year securities
tomorrow and sell $29 billion of 7-year debt the next day.  Treasuries were also buoyed after Moody’s Investors Service
cut the ratings of five Spanish regions late yesterday and the
nation’s economy shrank for a fifth quarter, adding pressure on
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to seek European aid.  Spain ’s 10-
year bond yield rose 13 basis points to 5.62 percent.  The  difference  between U.S. five-year  interest-rate swaps 
and same-maturity Treasury yields narrowed to as little as 9.8
basis points, the least since March 2010.  Investors use swaps to exchange fixed and floating
interest-rate obligations. The spread between the fixed
component and the Treasury rate narrows as demand for higher-
yielding assets increases.  “The Fed’s pledge to keep rates low still stands, which
continues to buoy demand,” said Justin Lederer, an interest-
rate strategist at primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New
York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  