-- Related Said to Have Financing for Hudson Yards Project
-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 2012-10-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/related-said-to-have-financing-for-hudson-yards-project.html
Related Cos. has received enough
loan commitments to start work next month on a 1.7 million-
square-foot skyscraper on Manhattan’s  Hudson Yards  development
site, according to a person with knowledge of its plans.  Related has a tentative commitment with  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and other lenders for about $400 million of financing on
the $1.2 billion tower, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because talks are private. The financing package
should be completed by the end of the year, the person said.  The New York-based developer, led by real estate investor
Stephen Ross, has rights to build more than 12 million square
feet (1.1 million square meters) of mixed development over train
yards near the  Hudson River . Related last year agreed to make
 Coach Inc. (COH) , the luxury-handbag company, the anchor occupant in
the initial 46-story tower, taking about 600,000 square feet.
Coach will own its space under the plan.  The Hudson Yards project, which Mayor  Michael Bloomberg 
last year compared to London’s Canary Wharf for its potential to
move the Midtown business district west toward the Hudson River,
includes about 6 million square feet of new  offices , 5,000
residences, a more than 750,000-square-foot shopping area,
luxury hotel, open space, a cultural center and a school,
according to Related’s website. Most of it requires the
construction of platforms over the train yards of the
 Metropolitan Transportation Authority , which owns the site.  The Coach tower would rise on the southeast corner of the
site, which is on solid ground, and doesn’t require a deck.  The remaining $800 million cost for construction of the
skyscraper would come from equity from the developers and from
Coach, the person said. Related’s partner on the project is
Toronto-based Oxford Properties, the real estate investment unit
of Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement System.  Joanna Rose , a Related spokeswoman, declined to comment, as
did Jefferson George, a Bank of America spokesman.  Details of the financing were reported late yesterday by
the Wall Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  