-- Trianel Files Suit Against TenneT on German Offshore Wind Delays
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-10-23T13:15:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/trianel-files-suit-against-tennet-on-german-offshore-wind-delays.html
Trianel GmbH, a group of German
municipal utilities building a 200-megawatt wind farm in the
 North Sea , filed a suit against TenneT TSO GmbH because of
delays connecting the project to the  power grid .  Trianel had to postpone until next year installation of a
transformer station and 40 Areva SA-made turbines after TenneT
informed it that the first grid link would be delayed from this
month to at least June 2013, said Klaus Horstick, head of the
group’s project company. That raises the cost of the Borkum farm
by about 50 million euros ($65 million), to at least 900 million
euros, he told reporters today in Berlin.  “We have invested, the turbines are sitting at the pier
but the grid connection is missing,” Horstick said. Trianel had
to adjust its installation plan, will put the turbines in
storage and pay for a new slot to install them, he said.  The delay is a further setback to developers eager to meet
 Germany ’s target of 25 gigawatts of sea-based turbines by 2030.
It adds to pressure on Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s government to
help end the delays. Dong Energy A/S yesterday said it suspended
work on a nearby wind farm because the company lacked a deal on
connecting it to the grid.  Trianel filed the suit with the regional court in Bayreuth
in early October as it seeks compensation for the cost overruns,
Horstick said. Thomas Goger, a spokesman for the court,
confirmed the case in a phone interview.  The DolWin 1 grid connection project has been delayed by
nine months after supplier ABB Ltd. informed the operator of
issues linked to supplying the converter platform on time, said
Cornelia Junge, a spokeswoman for TenneT.  ‘Very Complex’  Linking sea-based turbines to the grid “is a very complex
matter and everyone is entering unchartered territory,” she
said today by phone, declining to comment on the suit.  ABB didn’t immediately reply to an e-mail seeking comment.  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s second-biggest utility, said in July
it stalled a decision on building the Innogy Nordsee 1 offshore
site until next year as it waits for the government to set out
who will pay for delays.  Lawmakers from the main political parties yesterday
questioned experts over a bill backed by Merkel’s Cabinet of
Ministers that seeks to fix the liability issue. The bill as it
stands would fail to protect Trianel for its cost overruns,
according to Horstick.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  