-- Rolls-Royce A380 Engine May Require Additional Airline Scrutiny
-- B y   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2012-10-23T12:07:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/rolls-royce-a380-engine-may-require-additional-airline-scrutiny.html
Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) ’s Trent 900
engines that power Airbus A380s may require added airline
attention after an in-flight component failure.  One of four Trent 900s on an A380 suffered increased
vibration and debris was found in the engine during a post-
flight inspection, the Cologne, Germany-based European Aviation
Safety Agency said an airworthiness directive yesterday. A part
of the low pressure turbine detached and caused surrounding
damage, the agency said.  The issue was first raised with airlines in mid-September
to gain operator input on what corrective action to take. Almost
two years ago, a  Qantas Airways (QAN)  Ltd. A380 powered by the Trent
900 engine suffered major damage after an uncontained engine
failure caused by a different issue with the power plant.
Airlines this time around have 10 flights to investigate the
engine once a warning indication is received.  Rolls-Royce, which maintains a 24-hour operational monitor
center of all Trent 900s, will also see the alert. Where an
issue is found, the engine needs to be fixed immediately before
commercial operations can resume.  Customers can continue to operate as normal while
undertaking the checks, Rolls-Royce spokesman Bill O’Sullivan
said.  Airbus, in an emailed statement, described the event as
“isolated” and not requiring immediate action. “Operator
schedules are not impacted by the precautionary inspections
which can be performed quickly,” spokesman Martin Fendt said.  The Trent 900 is one of two engines Airbus offers on the
A380. A joint venture of  General Electric (GE)  and  United
Technologies Co. (UTX) ’s  Pratt & Whitney  offers the GP7200.  The directive, which EASA said is an interim measure, takes
effect Nov. 5. Further guidance to deal with the problem may
follow, the regulator said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  