-- Romania Bond Yields Climb to Two-Week High as Default Risk Jumps
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-10-23T15:59:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/romania-leu-falls-for-first-time-in-two-days-as-cap-effect-fades.html
Romanian Eurobond yields rose for a
sixth day to the highest level in almost two weeks and the cost
of protecting against default jumped as concern the global
economy is weakening damped demand for riskier assets.  The yield on 2018 euro-denominated bonds climbed 17 basis
points, or 0.17 percentage point, to 4.44 percent, the highest
since Oct. 10, at 6:10 p.m. in Bucharest. Credit-default swaps
rose 15 basis points, the most since July 23, to 235, based on
data compiled by Bloomberg. The leu slid less than 0.1 percent
to 4.5765 per euro.  Emerging-market stocks sank the most in two weeks and
commodities tumbled as lower-than-forecast results from global
companies fueled concern the global recovery is faltering.
The average cost to insure government debt against default in
eastern  Europe , the Middle East and Africa rose eight basis
points to 191, according to the Markit iTraxx SovX CEEMEA Index.  Default swaps increase as perceptions of creditworthiness
deteriorate. The contracts pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
government or company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  Romania’s central bank capped lending to commercial banks
yesterday at its one-week repurchase agreement auction at 5
billion lei ($1.4 billion) compared with a 6 billion-lei limit
on Oct. 15, to support the currency. The leu is facing
depreciation pressures amid political unease ahead of general
elections on Dec. 9. Lenders’ demand at the auction shrank to
12.7 billion lei from last week’s record high of 21.4 billion
lei.  “The central bank limited once again the amount of funds
pumped in the market through its weekly repo operations,”
Bucharest-based analysts at Credit Europe Bank  Romania  SA wrote
in a report. “The impact on the foreign-exchange rate was
limited, as the local currency remains under selling
pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  