-- Romney Flip-Flopped. And Got Caught.
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 2012-10-23T14:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/romney-flip-flopped-and-got-caught-.html
Mitt Romney 's basic strategy to win the presidency was to gallop to the right
in the primaries, then gallop to the center in the general election. It worked
well enough to give him the nomination. And when he pivoted to the center in the
first debate, it worked again. In Boca Raton,  Romney was betting that he could say anything in the debate
in front of 65 million not terribly knowledgeable viewers and get away with it.
He was trading on the fact that viewership for the fact-checking follow-up on
cable will number in the tens of thousands, not the millions. In 28 years of covering debates, I've never seen someone retreat from more
positions, faster. In trying to show suburban women he wasn't a warmonger, he
seemed reactive, shifty, and -- of critical importance -- not as strong as
President  Barack Obama . In a normal political environment, Romney might get away with it. But in the
vortex of a campaign in its last fortnight, all of the flip-flops and
distortions will get chewed over not just on low-rated cable TV but also around
kitchen tables in Toledo. Within minutes, for instance, networks were playing tape of Romney talking
about keeping troops in Iraq and  Afghanistan  and about letting  Detroit  go
bankrupt. As they did with John Kerry, the flip-flops are becoming a character
issue for Romney. It's not a plus for him if undecided voters are asking: "Where
does he really stand?" Obama's constant refrain that Romney was "all over the
map" drove that message home. Romney tried to fuzz up the auto bailout to make it seem as if he were
actually supportive of government guarantees. It's awfully late to make that
case when voters in Michigan and  Ohio  have long known that he wanted the private
sector to step in to save the industry, but no one -- including Bain Capital --
was willing to do so. If Romney manages to win Ohio by saying he wanted the government to save
Detroit, he will be winning the presidency with a lie. It could easily happen. This is shaping up as an extraordinarily close
election. Anyone who says he knows what's going to happen is blowing smoke. ( Jonathan Alter  is a columnist for Bloomberg View.  Follow  him on
Twitter.) Read more breaking commentary from Bloomberg View columnists and editors at
the  Ticker .