-- HRT Amazon Study With Petrobras Includes Pipeline, LNG
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-10-23T17:47:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/hrt-and-petrobras-study-pipeline-lng-for-amazon-gas-1-.html
HRT Participacoes em Petroleo SA ,
the oil startup exploring in the Amazon and Namibia, said a plan
to collaborate with  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4)  may include sharing a
pipeline and building power and fertilizer plants to make money
from gas deposits.  HRT (HRTP3)  and Petrobras, as  Brazil ’s state-controlled oil company
is known, are also considering developing liquefied natural gas
and gas-to-liquids projects to “monetize” gas discoveries in
the Solimoes Basin in Brazil’s Amazon region, HRT Chief
Financial Officer Carlos Tersandro Adeodato said today in an e-
mailed response to questions.  HRT has risen 32 percent since announcing on Oct. 15 a
letter of intent with Petrobras to collaborate on gas projects
in the Jurua area of Solimoes where both companies have made
discoveries. The announcement had no specific information about
the project. Petrobras has the only natural  gas pipeline  in the
area, where it has been producing oil for more than two decades.
Both companies are based in Rio.  “The objective is to optimize investments and logistics
for all,” Adeodato said. The agreement with Petrobras has
“been considered good news by the market.”  A working group comprised of HRT, Petrobras and TNK-BP Ltd.
officials will evaluate which collaboration options are
feasible, according to an HRT statement today.  Stock Rises  HRT plans to release next year a report on its reserves in
Solimoes to be compiled by oil auditing firm Degolyer &
MacNaughton Corp., he said.  HRT erased losses to rise 2.4 percent to 5.95 reais at 3:44
p.m. in  Sao Paulo , paring its loss this year to 48 percent.
Petrobras slid 2.1 percent to 21.59 reais.  The two companies will study the technical, economic and
environmental viability of gas projects in Solimoes, Petrobras
said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday. Petrobras
officials didn’t immediately respond to calls and an e-mail
seeking comment on Adeodato’s statements today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  