-- Russia Stocks Drop Most in Four Weeks on Commodities, Before Fed
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-10-23T15:52:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/russia-stocks-drop-most-in-four-weeks-on-commodities-before-fed.html
Russian stocks  fell the most in four
weeks as crude oil and metals declined and investors awaited
details of a U.S. Federal Reserve meeting.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  retreated 1.3 percent to 1,455.31 by the
close in Moscow. Utilities and consumer stocks led the drop,
losing more than 2.2 percent on average. OAO EON  Russia , a power
producer controlled by  Germany ’s biggest utility, declined 4.6
percent as Interfax reported growth will slow next year, citing
Chief Executive Officer Maxim Shirokov. OAO Raspadskaya, a coal
producer, retreated 3.5 percent.  Crude oil dipped 2.9 percent to $86.18 a barrel after
sinking 1.5 percent yesterday, trading near three-month low.
Russia receives about 50 percent of budget revenue from oil and
gas sales. Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities lost
1.9 percent. The Fed Open Market Committee, which sent the Micex
to a  bull market  last month by announcing a third stimulus
round, starts a two-day meeting today.  “It’s a concern that commodities aren’t rising, it signals
economic growth isn’t fast enough,” Dmitry Malykhin, who
oversees $30 million in Russian assets as chief  investment
adviser  at Moscow-based hedge fund Da Vinci CIS Opportunities,
said by phone today. “Investors are expecting strong actions
from global banks.”  Russia’s Micex climbed an average 77 percent during the
Fed’s first two courses of so-called quantitative easing and
slipped 0.6 percent during periods without stimulus, the biggest
difference of 46 emerging and developed markets tracked by
Bloomberg. Since the announcement of QE3 on Sept. 13 to
yesterday’s close, the Micex has gained 0.2 percent, compared
with a 2.6 percent advance in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index.  Biggest Company  OAO Rosneft rose 2.7 percent to 225.77 rubles, the highest
level since March 5. Russia’s largest oil producer yesterday
agreed to buy TNK-BP, a 50-50 venture between  BP Plc (BP/)  and a group
of billionaires, for $54.8 billion in the third-biggest oil
acquisition on record.  TNK-BP Holding (TNBP)  fell 17 percent to 64.96
rubles, the biggest drop on record.  “We’re not confident yet that Rosneft will be able to
fully implement best practices from BP which has been the major
success driver for TNK-BP,” Renaissance Capital analysts led by
Ildar Davletshin, said in an e-mailed report today.  Rosneft’s chairman  Igor Sechin  said today TNK-BP’s dividend
policy may not continue, while Rosneft will maintain a 25
percent dividend payout. Rosneft made no promises to TNK-BP’s
minorities, Sechin said.  “The main attraction of TNK-BP has been its high dividend
yield or the potential for a tender from Rosneft,” Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global Trading UK Ltd., said by e-mail
from  London . “Now neither seem likely so its prospects look
bleak.”  Bank of America Corp.  raised  its recommendation on Rosneft
to buy from neutral, lifting the price estimate to $9 per global
depositary receipt, according to an e-mailed report. Bank of
America sees the deal boosting Rosneft’s earnings and
valuations. Rosneft trades at 7.2 times estimated earnings.  State Control  Buying TNK-BP will give Rosneft production and reserves
that surpass Exxon Mobil Corp., the world’s largest publicly
traded oil company. An enlarged Rosneft will employ more than
210,000 people, almost three times as many as Exxon. Rosneft’s
oil and natural gas reserves will be 7 percent larger, while the
traded value of Russia’s state-run oil company will be $292
billion less than Exxon.  RenCap is concerned the oil sector’s regulatory environment
will be influenced by Rosneft’s needs because the oil producer
will control about 40 percent of total Russian oil output after
the deal, according to today’s report.  OAO Gazprombank  cut  TNK-BP to underweight, citing concern
the company’s dividend payouts will end this year and minorities
won’t receive a payout, according to an e-mailed note.  OAO  Mechel (MTLR)  dropped for a second day, losing 3.9 percent to
211.50 rubles, the biggest decline in a month, after Russia’s
largest producer of coal for steelmaking halted mining at
Bluestone facilities.  Mechel, Bluestone  Mechel temporarily suspended mining at some facilities of
its Bluestone mining complex in the U.S., including Keystone,
Justice Energy and Dynamic Energy, citing “accumulated” coal
inventories, the company said in a statement yesterday. The
suspension may result in about $120 million in lost revenue,
 Alfa Bank  said in an e-mailed note today.  EON Russia slumped 4.6 percent to 2.6595 rubles, the
biggest drop since June 20. The power company sees 2013 growth
close to this year’s, Interfax reported, citing CEO Shirokov.  The dollar-denominated  RTS Index (RTSI$)  fell 2.7 percent to
1,456.73.  The Micex trades at 5.6 times  estimated earnings  after
gaining 3.8 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the  MSCI Emerging Markets (MXEF)  Index, which has added
8.7 percent.  Russian equities have the lowest valuations based on
estimated earnings among 21 emerging markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in Moscow at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  