-- Russian Competitiveness Trails Pakistan, Palau, World Bank Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s
-- 2012-10-23T08:00:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/russian-competitiveness-trails-pakistan-palau-world-bank-says.html
Russia , which President  Vladimir Putin  wants to vault into the ranks of the world’s five largest
economies, was rated in the bottom half of the World Bank’s
annual competitiveness  study , lagging behind Pakistan and Palau.  Russia placed 112th of 185 countries in the Washington-
based lender’s 2013 Doing Business report. Its ranking improved
from 120 last year, besting Brazil and  India  at 130 and 132,
respectively. The study, now in its 10th year and published
together with the International Finance Corp., tracks indicators
such as the time it takes to start a business, submit tax
returns and export or import goods.  The world’s biggest energy exporter held the penultimate
184th rank in the “getting electricity” component and its
construction permits took 344 days to complete, compared with 26
days in  Singapore , placing it at 178th, according to the  World
Bank . Russia jumped 41 notches in “paying taxes” and retreated
on “protecting investors” and “getting credit.”  Putin, who returned to the Kremlin for his third term in
May, wants to raise Russia’s standing in the survey to 20th in
2018 and boost investment in the economy to 27 percent of gross
domestic product by 2018 from 21 percent last year. In the run-
up to the March 4 presidential vote, he established the Agency
for Strategic Initiatives to prepare roadmaps for improving
regulations.  A better business climate is needed to win an upgrade of
Russia’s credit rating,  Standard & Poor’s  said last week. Russia
is rated BBB at S&P, the second-lowest investment grade and
level with Bulgaria and  Lithuania .  Lighter Burden  “Russia eased the administrative burden of taxes for firms
by simplifying compliance procedures for value-added tax and by
promoting the use of tax accounting software and electronic
service,” the  World Bank  said.  Over the past year, the number of required tax payments was
cut from nine to seven annually in Russia, which also reduced
procedures and time necessary to start a business, according to
the report.  “Other countries are moving faster,” Andrey Nikitin,
general director of the Agency for Strategic Initiatives, said
in an e-mailed comment. “We must be uncompromising in our
attitude to ourselves.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  