-- S. Korea Lawmakers Visit Disputed Isles in Defiance of Japan
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-10-23T07:55:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/s-korea-lawmakers-head-to-disputed-islands-in-defiance-of-japan.html
South Korean lawmakers visited a
group of rocky islets at the center of a long-standing dispute
with Japan, defying the Japanese government’s request yesterday
to call off the trip.  The lawmakers, members of parliament’s national defense
committee, left from the southeastern city of Busan this
afternoon, police official Kim Do Han said by telephone. He
declined to say when they’d arrive, citing security concerns.  In August,  Lee Myung Bak  became the first South Korean
president to visit the islets, called Dokdo in Korean and
Takeshima in Japanese, souring ties between Asia’s second and
fourth-biggest economies. The spat led the two sides not to
renew a currency swap deal and South Korea has said free trade
negotiations will lag until the situation is resolved.  “We’ve confirmed that the committee members landed on
Takeshima,” Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura
told reporters in  Tokyo . “Takeshima is sovereign Japanese
territory and as such this is completely unacceptable.” He said
yesterday the Japanese embassy in Seoul had asked the South
Korean government to cancel the parliamentarians’ trip.  The islets are 87 kilometers (54 miles) east of the closest
South Korean territory and 158 kilometers from the nearest
Japanese land. Sovereignty over the area gives the holder control
of fishing grounds and natural gas reserves.  South Korea  has
bolstered its claims by stationing coast guard personnel there
year-round.  Japan is also mired in a maritime row with China over
islands in the  East China Sea , hurting Japanese companies such
as  Nissan Motor Co. (7201)  that do business in China at a time when
exports are falling.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  