-- Samsung Mocking Apple in Ads Looks to Win Cheech and Chong Test
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-10-23T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/samsung-mocking-apple-in-ads-looks-to-win-cheech-and-chong-test.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  won one
patent case brought by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  because its tablet computer
was found “not as cool” as the iPad. The next legal test in
the smartphone wars revolves around a 1970s comedy routine.  U.S. International Trade Commission Judge Thomas Pender is
scheduled to announce Oct. 25 whether he believes some of
Samsung’s phones and tablets are substantially similar to
Apple’s. Or, as the judge said in court last May, whether “it
looks like, smells like” an Apple product, recalling a routine
by the comedy duo Cheech and Chong about identifying dog waste.  The loser probably won’t see the humor. If the judge finds
a violation and the commission agrees, the agency can block
Samsung products from the U.S. market. As it’s done in the past,
though, the commission probably would give Samsung time to make
changes to its phones so that service carriers aren’t caught
lacking devices to sell to customers.  “I don’t think you can grant an exclusion order against
Samsung without disruption to the U.S. market,” said Rodney Sweetland, a lawyer with Duane Morris in  Washington  who
specializes in cases at the trade agency. “Just because Samsung
is given time to do a workaround or given some other special
consideration, it’s still going to have a dramatic impact on
their business. It won’t cripple them, but it will harm them.”  The judge also is reviewing Apple’s claim that Samsung
infringed patents for touch-screen technology co-invented by
Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  and features such as the user
interface and headset plugs.  Market Share  Samsung has submitted documents to Pender related to a
design-around, although the papers are confidential so it isn’t
known what changes are involved. Apple is seeking to block U.S.
imports of more than a dozen models of Samsung phones and
tablets, including Galaxy Tab, Galaxy Nexus, Galaxy SII, and
Galaxy Note.  The ITC case is one of more than three dozen that span four
continents. Apple’s iPhone is the top-selling smartphone in the
U.S., with 34 percent of the U.S. market in August, compared
with Samsung’s 18 percent, according to market researcher
Comscore. Samsung is the world leader in mobile phones sales,
with more than a quarter of the global market to Apple’s 17
percent.  At stake is a market that Bloomberg Industries said grew 62
percent last year to $219 billion. One in seven people worldwide
has a smartphone, with the global number exceeding 1 billion in
the third quarter, according to an Oct. 17 report by researcher
 Strategy Analytics . While it took 16 years to reach that
milestone, the research group estimates another billion people
will have smartphones within the next three years.  Galaxy Nexus  The Oct. 25 ITC decision, though preliminary, takes on
heightened importance after a U.S. appeals court limited the
authority of federal trial judges, in civil patent-infringement
lawsuits, to block sales based on the infringement of one
feature of a multi-component part.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
Washington, which specializes in U.S. patent law, on Oct. 11
overturned an order that would prevent Samsung from selling the
Galaxy Nexus phone in the U.S. while another Apple patent case
is pending. The appeals court said that such orders could be
imposed only if the patented invention that’s in dispute is
something that would influence a consumer’s choice of which
product to buy.  The same court, which also handles appeals from the ITC,
said in December that the trade commission’s authority to block
imports isn’t constrained by the same legal rules that apply to
trial courts. The ITC’s job is to protect U.S. markets from
unfair trade practices, including infringement of intellectual
property rights.  HTC Rulings  “For now, the ITC is going to be more important,” said
David Long, a lawyer with Dow Lohnes in Washington. “The only
form of relief they can give is an exclusion order. It’s a
different standard. The district court can say ‘I won’t enjoin
you but I’ll give you some money.’ The ITC can’t do that.”  The trade agency has twice forced companies to alter their
smartphones.  HTC Corp. (2498) ’s phones were held up at the border in
May after Apple won a trade case. The iPhone maker has an
enforcement action pending that accuses HTC of violating that
exclusion order.  Google Inc.’s Motorola Mobility unit was ordered to remove
a feature to coordinate schedules from its phones after it was
found to infringe a Microsoft Corp. patent.  The ITC is scheduled to make a final decision in the Apple
case against Samsung in late February. By then, Apple should
know whether it has persuaded a trial judge to block sales of
some Samsung products under the new, more stringent appeals
court standard. Its request for a sales ban is based on a $1
billion jury verdict Apple won against Samsung on Aug. 24 in a
 San Jose ,  California , federal court.  Form, Function  While the verdict vindicated Apple’s claim that Samsung
copied some aspects of the iPhone and iPad, “what is more
important at this point is something more practical born from a
litigation victory,” said Nick Rodelli, head of Rockville,
Maryland-based CFRA’s Legal Edge research service. The appeals
court ruling “puts them behind where they were,” he said.  Cupertino, California-based Apple hasn’t been able to halt
Samsung’s growth. In the “not as cool” case it lost in the
U.K., in which a court said Samsung’s Galaxy tablet didn’t
infringe a design patent, Apple was ordered to place
advertisements apologizing for charges that Samsung copied
Apple’s product.  Apple’s lawyers have argued it revolutionized the
smartphone industry when it introduced the iPhone in 2007, only
to see copycats from Samsung and other companies making handsets
that run on Google Inc.’s Android operating system.  TV Ads  Samsung’s lawyers contend the designs are obvious, and the
shape of the device is determined by its function. The Suwon,
South Korea-based company has been the second-highest recipient
of U.S. patents for the past five years, and smarts at
allegations that it’s copying Apple. It’s been running a
television  advertisement  mocking people who stand in line for
the next Apple product.  Samsung lost the first round in its own ITC case against
Apple when trade judge James Gildea said Sept. 14 that Apple
didn’t infringe four Samsung patents. Samsung is seeking a
review of those findings by the full commission.  The Apple case against Samsung is In the Matter of
Electronic Digital Media Devices, 337-796, and Samsung’s case is
In the Matter of Electronic Devices, Including Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, and Tablet Computers, 337-794, both U.S. International
Trade Commission (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  