-- Scandlines Owner Said to Hire Goldman Sachs, ING for Sale
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-10-23T13:07:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/scandlines-owner-said-to-hire-goldman-sachs-ing-for-sale.html
Scandlines , a Danish-German ferry
operator, is being prepared for a sale after owners  3i Group Plc (III) 
and Allianz Capital Partners GmbH hired banks to find a buyer,
according to people with knowledge of the matter.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  ING Groep NV (INGA)  will advise and
finance a potential sale, said the people, who asked not to be
identified because the talks are private. Scandlines may be
worth about 1.4 billion euros ($1.8 billion) and attract
infrastructure funds, the people said.  A major long-term risk for Scandlines is government plans
to build a tunnel linking Denmark and  Germany , potentially
reducing a need for ferry use. The Danish-German route accounts
for the majority of Scandlines’ business, according to its
annual report. Denmark and Germany plan to start building what
will become the world’s longest combined road and rail tunnel
beneath the Fehmarn Belt strait in 2015 and aim to open it by
2021, according to a statement on the tunnel’s  website .  Officials at Goldman, ING, Scandlines and 3i declined to
comment on a sale process, and Allianz Capital Partners couldn’t
be immediately reached for comment.  The company, which is based in Copenhagen and Rostock,
Germany, and traces its roots to an 1872 ferry route,
transported 11.5 million passengers, 2.6 million cars and
640,000 trucks on its three main routes last year, its  website 
shows. Scandlines in May agreed to sell five ferry routes to
Stena Line AB of  Sweden  to focus on the Danish-German routes.  Scandferries Group, the holding company for Scandlines,
reported that 2011 profit fell by half to 10 million euros, even
as sales grew by about 8 percent to 611 million euros.  3i, Britain’s oldest private-equity firm, and Allianz
Capital Partners, the buyout unit of Germany’s largest insurer
 Allianz SE (ALV) , each own 49 percent of Scandferries Group. The rest
is owned by management.  The two private-equity investors, along with shipping
company Deutsche Seereederei GmbH, agreed in 2007 to jointly
acquire Scandlines from Germany’s national rail operator
Deutsche Bahn AG and the Danish government for 1.56 billion
euros. 3i and Allianz Capital Partners bought out Deutsche
Seereederei’s stake in 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  