-- Scene in D.C.: Rubenstein, Kimmel Honor Ellen DeGeneres
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-10-23T15:29:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/scene-in-d-c-rubenstein-kimmel-honor-ellen-degeneres.html
Carlyle Group (CG)  co-founder  David Rubenstein  danced a little jig at the Kennedy Center last night
before presenting  Ellen DeGeneres  with a bust of Mark Twain.  “The last time I danced in public was my bar mitzvah,”
Rubenstein said. “It wasn’t a pretty sight.”  The occasion was the 15th Annual Mark Twain Prize for
American Humor, which added DeGeneres to a roster that includes
 Tina Fey ,  Steve Martin  and Jonathan Winters. Much was made of
the DeGeneres penchant for dancing on her television show.  Attending with her wife, Portia de Rossi, DeGeneres was
saluted by Lily Tomlin (the 2003 Twain Prize recipient), Jane Lynch of “Glee,” and Jimmy Kimmel, among others. Tomlin and
Lynch praised DeGeneres as a trailblazer for women comedians and
for coming out as a lesbian on mainstream television.  “You are a folk hero too,” Tomlin said, comparing
DeGeneres to Twain’s most famous protagonist, Huck Finn.  The evening began with a pan-seared salmon dinner. Guests
included  MicroStrategy Inc. (MSTR)  Chief Executive Officer Michael Saylor and Kenneth Duberstein, chairman of the Duberstein Group
Inc., and former Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle.  Jonathan Witter, president of retail and direct banking at
the event’s presenting sponsor, Capital One Bank, served as co-
chairman. He said one of his leadership tenets is “not taking
yourself too seriously.”  Big Bird  Sharon Percy Rockefeller, the chief executive of local
Public Broadcasting Service affiliate WETA, said that the sudden
inclusion of “Sesame Street’s” Big Bird in the presidential
campaign “highlights the dangerous position” PBS finds itself
in, given the threat of federal cuts.  DeGeneres joked that she was happy to be part of PBS’s
“farewell season.” The network will air the  Mark Twain  Prize
tributes to DeGeneres on Oct. 30.  Guests attended a VIP after-party for dancing and dessert.  The evening raised $1.5 million for the Kennedy Center.  Grinding Speed  Grinding Speed was the top winner at the 75th International
Gold Cup, a steeplechase race in The Plains, Virginia. Michael
T. Wharton’s Grindstone gelding earned a $50,000 prize Saturday.  Rynthia Manning Rost, vice president of public affairs for
Geico Corp., relaxed on top of the hill at the Great Meadow
Summer House.  Revelers from Capitol Hill included Scott Herndon with the
U.S. Senate Homeland Security Committee and Sang Yi with the
House Government Reform Committee.  The event, held twice a year, benefits the Great Meadow
Foundation, which preserves the land on which the race takes
place.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Craig Seligman  on  books , Philip
Boroff on  theater .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 