-- Scots Reject Spanish Warning on EU Status After Independence
-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 2012-10-24T12:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/scotland-rejects-spanish-warning-on-eu-status-after-independence.html
The Scottish government dismissed
claims the country would have to apply to join the European
Union should it vote to leave the U.K., after  Spain  warned
membership wasn’t guaranteed.  Spanish Foreign Minister Jose Manuel Garcia-Margallo said
yesterday that an independent Scotland would have to pass
through the same process as other candidate countries. The
semiautonomous administration in Edinburgh, which is campaigning
to break from the U.K., reiterated its stance that Scotland
would automatically remain within the EU. A minister said
earlier in the day it was seeking legal advice on its status.  “Scotland is part of the territory of the European Union
and the people of Scotland are citizens of the EU -- there is no
provision for either of these circumstances to change upon
independence,” a government spokesman said in an e-mailed
response to questions last night. “Scotland will inherit
exactly the same international treaty rights and obligations as
the rest of the U.K., as equal successor states.”  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  and Scottish First
Minister  Alex Salmond  agreed this month to hold a referendum on
independence scheduled for 2014. With the debate so far mainly
focused on the economics of Scotland going it alone, polls show
voters are roughly two-to-one in favor of staying in the U.K.  Catalan Vote  The Spanish government meanwhile is facing its own
constitutional challenge as Catalan leader Artur Mas pushes for
greater autonomy. The region will hold elections on Nov. 25.  Scotland “would have to get in line and secure unanimous
support,” Garcia-Margallo told the Spanish Senate in  Madrid . It
would have to wait before being granted membership, he said.  “These comments have been overtaken by events because we
now have a clear process by which  Scotland  can become an
independent country, signed up to by both the Scottish and the
U.K. governments,” said the spokesman in Edinburgh, who
declined to be named in line with policy.  Deputy First Minister Nicola Sturgeon told the Scottish
Parliament yesterday the government is seeking legal advice on
its EU status and has dropped a legal challenge against a ruling
by the Scottish Information Commissioner to disclose whether or
not it had done so already.  “The government has now commissioned specific legal advice
from our law officers on the position of Scotland within the
European Union if independence is achieved through this
process,” Sturgeon, who is spearheading the “yes” campaign
for the vote, said yesterday.  Pound, Queen  Salmond, who leads the pro-independence  Scottish National
Party , said Scotland would be underpinned by North Sea oil and
renewable energy, and he plans to keep the British pound,  Queen Elizabeth II  as head of state and EU membership.  Two SNP lawmakers opposed to nuclear weapons quit yesterday
over the party’s decision to keep Scotland within the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization should the country become
independent. The policy to be a non-nuclear member of NATO was
passed at the SNP’s conference last week.  “The argument they’re running at the moment is that
everything will change and nothing will change,”  Alistair Darling , the former Chancellor of the Exchequer who is leading
the campaign to keep Scotland in the U.K., told a House of Lords
committee hearing in Edinburgh today. “It’s increasingly
obvious no thinking has gone into this until very recently.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  