-- Scripps Networks Seen Luring Disney as Trust Disbands: Real M&A
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-10-23T20:03:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/scripps-networks-seen-luring-disney-as-trust-disbands-real-m-a.html
Scripps Networks Interactive Inc. (SNI) ,
the television home of Paula Deen’s mashed potatoes, is poised
to lure bids even with the stock at a record high now that the
controlling family trust has disbanded.  The owner of the Travel Channel, HGTV and most of the Food
Network has the second-fastest projected sales growth through
2015 among 13 U.S. media companies valued at $1 billion or more,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Scripps Networks, which
split from E.W. Scripps Co.’s newspaper assets in 2008, also
offers the industry’s highest return on assets at 14 percent.  The $9.5 billion corporation’s revenue outlook  justifies  a
premium of 30 percent or more, according to Carne Capital LLC.
Edward Jones & Co. said buyers will likely emerge given the end
last week of the Edward W. Scripps Trust, which had 93.5 percent
of the voting rights.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , owner of sports network
ESPN, should be drawn to Scripps Networks as a way to add more
female-friendly content, said Citigroup Inc. and Macquarie Group
Ltd., which also sees  Time Warner (TWX)  Inc. as a potential acquirer.  Scripps Networks “probably belongs in a larger entity,”
Amy Yong, a New York-based analyst at Macquarie, said in a
telephone interview. The dissolution of the family trust last
week “puts Scripps into play,” she added. “Anyone who doesn’t
have kind of female-centric or lifestyle-centric content would
want to own this.”  Mark Kroeger, a spokesman for Scripps Networks, declined to
comment on whether the company had been approached by any buyers
or would be open to a sale.  Cleveland Roots  Scripps Networks traces its roots to 1878 when Edward W.
Scripps founded the Penny Press in  Cleveland . In 2007, newspaper
owner E.W. Scripps Co. decided to split off its cable-television
assets, and the new company, known as Scripps Networks, became
publicly traded the next year. The channels owned by Knoxville,
Tennessee-based Scripps Networks -- HGTV, the Travel Channel,
DIY Network, the Cooking Channel, Great American Country, and 69
percent of the Food Network -- focus on topics such as cooking,
gardening, housing and travel.  The family trust is being dissolved because of the death of
Robert P. Scripps, a grandson of the founder, according to an
Oct. 19 statement. The trust’s holdings, including 28.4 percent
of Scripps Networks’s publicly traded Class A common shares and
93.5 percent of the voting shares as of Sept. 30, will now be
distributed to descendants of Edward W. Scripps.  Fees, Advertising  Cable-channel owners such as Scripps Networks generate
revenue through two primary sources: fees from pay-TV operators
such as  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  that carry their stations, and
advertising sales. Companies like Scripps Networks and Viacom
Inc., which owns MTV and Nickelodeon, negotiate fees for their
networks in bundles and rely on selling high volumes of
advertising since they usually receive lower rates than big
broadcast networks such as CBS Corp. and News Corp.’s Fox.  Scripps Networks’s content is “all pay-TV-based, so that
in and of itself I think is a very attractive business model
because you’re getting paid for that subscription fee -- very
recurring revenue -- in addition to advertising,” Robin Diedrich, a St. Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones, said in a
phone interview.  Scripps Networks is offering potential buyers one of the
fastest growth rates in the industry. Revenue will increase 23.9
percent between 2012 and 2015, according to the average of
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s faster than 11
of 12 similar-sized U.S. media peers, trailing only Discovery
Communications Inc.’s 24.1 percent rate, and compares with a
median of 14.8 percent, the data show.  Diners, Dives  The company, with shows from Deen’s “Paula’s Home
Cooking” to “Diners, Drive-Ins and Dives” and “House
Hunters,” is also proving more effective at generating profits
off its assets with its  return on assets  of 14 percent, more
than double the peer median of 5.9 percent.  Shares of Scripps Networks had risen 50 percent in 2012
through yesterday, reaching a record high of $63.72. Today, the
stock lost 2.1 percent to $62.36. Given the company’s growth
potential and the value of its content, any buyer would have to
pay a premium of at least 30 percent to strike a deal, said Sean Bonner, chief investment officer at Radnor, Pennsylvania-based
Carne Capital, which oversees about $65 million including
Scripps Networks shares. Based on yesterday’s  close , that would
value it at $82.84 or more.  “As a shareholder, I would demand a steep premium because
I think this is a great business,” Bonner said in a phone
interview. “Any bigger company that’s looking for content and
content that provides a great return on assets” would want
Scripps Networks, Bonner said.  Worth More  Jerome Dodson, president of San Francisco-based Parnassus
Investments, which oversees about $6.7 billion including Scripps
Networks stock, said the company could attract bids of about $80
a share or more. Scripps Networks is worth more than its current
price because of its projected growth, he said.  Jason Bazinet , a New York-based analyst at Citigroup, wrote
in an Oct. 19 note that Disney of Burbank,  California , may be
drawn to Scripps Networks to fill a “yawning gap” in its
programming: “upscale, older women.” The $92.9 billion company
caters to children with the Disney Channel, teens with comic-
book division Marvel, and men with ESPN, while Scripps Networks
tends to attract women older than 49, Bazinet said in a separate
report from Aug. 13.  Macquarie’s Yong agreed that Disney may be interested. She
also identified New York-based Time Warner, whose holdings
include cable channels  HBO ,  CNN  and TBS.  Another possible bidder is Philadelphia-based Comcast,
which purchased a cable-TV system from E.W. Scripps Co. in 1996,
said Carne Capital’s Bonner. Comcast acquired control of NBC
Universal in 2011, adding networks from CNBC to USA Network to
the company’s existing cable delivery system.  Disbanding Trust  Michelle Bergman, a spokeswoman for Disney, didn’t respond
to a phone message or e-mail seeking comment on whether the
company would be interested in buying Scripps Networks. John Demming, a spokesman for Comcast, and  Keith Cocozza , a spokesman
for Time Warner, declined to comment.  Now that the Edward W. Scripps Trust has been disbanded,
these larger companies may be more willing to bid on the
company, Dodson of Parnassus said.  Cable-channel owners such as Disney may have been deterred
from making an offer “because they just didn’t think it was in
play,” Dodson said in a phone interview. The dissolution of the
trust “certainly does open the possibility of selling to an
outside entity.”  The process may make it easier for a buyer to acquire the
company, Edward Jones’s Diedrich said.  More Deciders  Control “seems to be spread out” and “more decision
makers have input into the process,” she said. “It certainly
seems to be more likely that if someone were to make a great
offer, that you could see more pressure from certain
beneficiaries that maybe are in favor of selling.”  Still, owners of shares that the trust held face
restrictions on the sale of stock: No one can sell without first
offering them to the rest of the beneficiaries and Scripps
Networks, according to filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. The group will continue to elect a majority of board
members, according to last week’s statement.  Scripps family members may not be motivated to sell, given
the trust’s success at guiding the company to profitability in
the past, said Tom Russo, a partner at Lancaster, Pennsylvania-
based Gardner Russo & Gardner, which oversees more than $5
billion including Scripps Networks shares. The company’s  revenue 
rose 34 percent in the past two years.  ‘Enormous Things’  “Anyone who’s been involved with the family knows that by
having the capacity to keep those share votes together, they’ve
been able to accomplish enormous things,” Russo said in a phone
interview. “They’ve advanced their finances better than just
about any other family trust that you could see, and knowing
that, they would be well advised to think of other ways to
somehow duplicate it.”  A high enough offer may be too tempting for both management
and family members to refuse, Carne’s Bonner said.  “Winning makes for great chemistry and I think for
shareholders, the same is true,” he said. “Getting a sizable
return on your investment makes for great chemistry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net  