-- SEC Begins Washington Finance Inquiry After City Audits Withheld
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-10-23T19:57:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/sec-begins-washington-finance-inquiry-after-city-audits-withheld.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission opened an “informal inquiry” into  Washington ,
D.C.’s finances after the city’s finance chief faced scrutiny
for failing to disclose internal audits of his agency.  The SEC yesterday asked the chief financial officer for
records of internal audits and investigations conducted since
the beginning of 2010, the  District of Columbia  said in a
disclosure to investors today.  The federal request follows a city council hearing this
month at which officials faulted Chief Financial Officer Natwar Gandhi for not disclosing internal audits documenting failures
at the agency. The Washington Post this month reported the
audits show security lapses in the tax department since 2007,
when an employee was caught embezzling $48 million.  On Oct. 16, the city council approved a measure requiring
disclosure of the chief financial officer’s internal audits.  Washington is the second city this month to face a fresh
inquiry from the SEC, which has been stepping up its
investigations into whether public officials adequately disclose
their finances to investors in the $3.7 trillion municipal
 securities market . The agency on Oct. 11 requested records from
San Bernardino, the California city that filed for bankruptcy
this year.  David Umansky, a spokesman for the city’s chief financial
officer, said the department is complying with the SEC’s
request.  “This is an informal inquiry, not an investigation,”
Umansky said. “We don’t think there’s any problems with our
disclosures, which is what the SEC would be concerned about.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  