-- Sime Sees Palm Rally as Mistry Says Worst Not Over: Commodities
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-10-24T20:52:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/sime-sees-palm-rally-as-mistry-says-worst-not-over-commodities.html
The six-month  bear market  in palm
may be ending as declining output in  Malaysia  curbs a record
glut, with  Sime Darby (SIME)  Bhd., the largest producer, forecasting a
rally in the world’s most-used cooking oil.  Reserves will diminish as exports accelerate, said Franki Anthony Dass, an executive vice president at Sime Darby
Plantation Sdn. Futures will rally 7.6 percent to 2,775 ringgit
($909) a metric ton in Kuala Lumpur by the end of the quarter,
based on the median of 13 analyst and trader estimates compiled
by Bloomberg. Prices may go as high as 3,100 ringgit by the end
of the first half, Dass said in an interview.  Palm, used in everything from biofuels to candy to noodles,
slumped to a three-year low this month as Malaysian inventories
reached a record, spurring the government to cut export taxes to
clear the glut. Dorab Mistry, who has traded the oil for 35
years and correctly forecast previous slumps, said that won’t be
enough and prices have yet to bottom. Analysts expect  Felda
Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV) , the third-largest palm-plantation
operator, to report a 21 percent increase in profit next year.  “The drop was a lot more excessive than was warranted,”
said  Abah Ofon , an agricultural analyst at Standard Chartered
Plc in  Singapore , predicting prices as high as 3,250 ringgit
this quarter. “We’re going to see a drop in output and
seasonally we’re going to see an uptake in demand,” said Ofon,
who correctly forecast in November that prices would rally.  Crops Wilting  Palm retreated 19 percent to 2,578 ringgit on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange this year, slumping as low as 2,230 ringgit
on Oct. 3. That contrasts with record corn and soybean prices as
the worst U.S. drought since 1956 wilted crops. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Agricultural Index of eight commodities gained 13
percent since the start of January as the MSCI All-Country World
Index of equities rose 9.7 percent. Treasuries returned 1.7
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Global consumption will rise 5.3 percent to 51.7 million
tons in the 2013 marketing year, driving stockpiles relative to
demand to a four-year low, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. Reserves will be equal to 11 percent of demand at the
end of the period, a drop of about 1 percentage point, according
to the USDA, whose estimates include several national years.  The commodity is extracted from the fruit of the oil palm
grown in tropical regions. Indonesia and Malaysia account for 87
percent of global supply. Malaysian output reached a record 2
million tons in September, taking inventories to 2.48 million
tons, industry data show. Output peaked in October last year,
then fell 38 percent in the following  four months . Prices have
risen every fourth quarter in all but one of the past six years.  Duty Free  The government said Oct. 12 that export taxes will drop to
4.5 percent to 8.5 percent from Jan. 1, down from 23 percent,
and a quota on duty-free shipments would end.  India , the biggest
importer, may buy as much as 50 percent of its supply from
Malaysia after the change, from 20 percent now, according to
B.V. Mehta, the executive director of the Mumbai-based Solvent
Extractors’ Association, an industry group.  The tax change will reduce reserves, Sime Darby’s Dass said
Oct. 19 in Subang Jaya, outside  Kuala Lumpur . Higher demand from
India and steady consumption in  Europe  and  China  will boost
shipments, said Dass, who’s been in the industry for 30 years
and oversaw 2.45 million tons of production last year.  Global Economy  Slowing global economic growth may curb demand and limit
the rally. The 17-nation euro area will contract 0.5 percent
this quarter and not expand again until the third quarter, the
median of as many as 25 economist estimates compiled by
Bloomberg shows. The 27-nation European Union accounted for 14
percent of imports last year, according to USDA data. China, the
second-biggest buyer, has slowed for seven straight quarters.  Prices plunged 44 percent in 2008 as the global economy
endured its deepest recession since World War II. The world is
“awfully close” to another slump, Bank of Israel GovernorStanley Fischer said in a Bloomberg Television interview
broadcast Oct. 15. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2012
global growth forecast to 3.3 percent on Oct. 9, compared with a
July prediction of 3.5 percent.  The economy doesn’t “look bullish” for palm, Mistry, a
director at Godrej International Ltd., told a conference in
Kuala Lumpur on Oct. 16.  Malaysian stockpiles  may exceed 3
million tons by Jan. 1 and futures may drop to 2,200 ringgit
within six weeks, he said. Mistry became known as Mr. Titanic
after he compared the market in 1998 to the ill-fated liner.  Southeast Asia  Indicators of an El Nino, caused by a warming of the
 Pacific Ocean  that can parch  Southeast Asia , remain neutral
after being close to thresholds for the weather pattern in
recent months,  Australia ’s Bureau of Meteorology said yesterday.
Output dropped 8.3 percent in 1998 because of an El Nino event,
data from the Malaysian  Palm Oil  Board show.  Demand for palm may be boosted by curbs in supplies of
soybeans and sunflowers, according to Thomas Mielke, executive
director of Oil World, a Hamburg-based research company. Palm
oil is set for a “pronounced recovery” and futures may rally
to 3,300 ringgit by March or April, Oil World said yesterday.  Global stockpiles of soybean oil, the most-consumed after
palm, have started falling toward the smallest since 1994
because of the U.S. drought, USDA data show. Total inventories
of palm, soybean, rapeseed and sunflower oils will drop to about
8.2 percent of consumption this year, the lowest since 1977,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg using USDA estimates.  Soybeans Rally  Soybeans advanced 29 percent on the Chicago Board of Trade
this year, reaching a record $17.89 a bushel in September, and
soymeal surged 53 percent. While  soybean oil  retreated 1.5
percent, its premium to palm widened to as much as $379 a ton
this month, the most since 2008.  China’s imports of palm may rise 5.3 percent to 6 million
tons in 2013, according to Desmond Ng, the Malaysian Palm Oil
Council’s regional manager for China. The Asian nation is
consuming about nine times more than a generation ago, leading a
fourfold gain in global demand, the USDA estimates.  Felda’s profit will increase to 1.14 billion ringgit next
year from 943.2 million ringgit, according to the mean of 18
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The Kuala Lumpur-
based company raised $3.3 billion in June in what was the year’s
biggest initial public offering since Facebook Inc. Its shares,
which dropped in July, August and September, gained 0.9 percent
to 4.71 ringgit, snapping two days of losses. All producers are
profitable with prices at 2,200 ringgit or more, Mistry said.  “The supply situation for oilseeds is very tight
historically,” said Erin Fitzpatrick, an analyst at Rabobank
International in  London . “That is going to be supportive for
palm oil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  