-- Slovenian Overhaul Doesn’t Match Fiscal Plight, Rehn Says
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-10-23T07:46:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/slovenian-overhaul-doesn-t-match-fiscal-plight-rehn-says.html
Slovenian efforts to overhaul the
economy don’t match the severity of the euro-nation’s fiscal
plight, European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said.  “Adverse macroeconomic and financial developments have hit
 Slovenia  hard in recent years,” Rehn said in a written response
dated Oct. 18 to lawmakers in the European Parliament posted on
its website. “The overriding concern of the commission to date
has been that the reform process in Slovenia does not
sufficiently match the gravity of the situation.”  Slovenia, the first post-communist nation to adopt the euro
in 2007, is seeking to overhaul its economy as Europe’s debt
crisis drives up borrowing costs in the 17-nation currency
region. The efforts include a plan to recapitalize banks that
are the focus of investor concern that the Adriatic nation may
be next in line for a bailout.  Prime Minister  Janez Jansa  has said Slovenia can avoid
seeking aid if it carries out the bank recapitalization plan,
creates a sovereign wealth fund, cuts the  budget deficit  and
changes labor laws and the pension system.  The commission, the EU’s executive arm, said in its spring
forecast that Slovenia’s general government deficit will be 4.3
percent of gross domestic product this year and 3.8 percent in
2013, when gross government debt will amount to 58 percent of
GDP. An updated forecast is due to be released on Nov. 7.  Long-Term Sustainability  Slovenia’s  “internal rebalancing process is proving
problematic” after the economy built up imbalances in the years
before the global financial crisis began, Rehn said,
underscoring risks to the “long-term sustainability of the
public finances.”  Last year, Slovenian voters in a referendum rejected
extending the  retirement age  to 65. The vote was followed in
subsequent months by the fall of the previous government of
Prime Minister  Borut Pahor  and credit-rating downgrades.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  