-- Soccer Hero Drains Votes as Ukraine Tactics Risk EU Wrath
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   K a t e r y n a   C h o u r s i n a
-- 2012-10-24T14:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/soccer-hero-drains-votes-as-ukraine-ballot-tactics-risk-eu-wrath.html
Soccer star Andriy Shevchenko’s
political debut is buoying President Viktor Yanukovych’s bid to
retain control of parliament in elections  Ukraine  says will
reinvigorate strained ties with the European Union.  Shevchenko, 36, a former AC Milan striker, is running in
the Oct. 28 vote for Ukraine Forward, which aims to pass
parliament’s 5 percent entry barrier. That’s hurting opposition
united under jailed ex-Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko and
improving the prospects of Yanukovych’s Party of Regions.  Ukrainian officials promise a legitimate ballot that will
breathe new life into EU relations torpedoed by Tymoshenko’s
incarceration. Yanukovych, whose ratings have slid amid
worsening corruption and the threat of a recession, has changed
electoral rules in his favor and curbed media freedoms, while
his opponents have been imprisoned.  “It’s difficult to consider Ukraine Forward as real
opposition,” said Jana Kobzova, program coordinator at the
European Council on Foreign Relations in  London . “Kiev needs to
realize that this goes beyond election day -- the EU also pays
attention to cases of selective justice, freedom of expression
or treatment of independent media.”  Ukraine Forward’s leader, Nataliya Korolevskaya, 37, built
a food, agriculture and construction holding in Yanukovych’s
eastern heartland. She quit Tymoshenko’s party last December
before revamping Ukraine Forward for this week’s vote.
Korolevska’s electoral program on her  website  says they aim to
replace political leaders and start a new economic model.  Winning Goals  Korolevskaya recruited Shevchenko after he scored winning
goals in June’s Euro 2012 soccer championships. Shevchenko
endorsed Yanukovych’s 2004 bid for president and featured with a
Party of Regions candidate in a campaign  calendar  before joining
Ukraine Forward.  “I did a lot for my country as a sportsman, as a football
player,” Shevchenko said on the party’s website. “Now I want
to be useful for it as a lawmaker. I want to share experience I
got in  Europe , I want to do something for my country.”  The parliamentary vote marks the halfway point in
Yanukovych’s first presidential term. Since his February 2010
inauguration, Ukraine’s benchmark  stock index  has lost about
half its value as the nation’s ranking in the Transparency
International  Corruption Perceptions Index  deteriorated to 152
from 134.  It fell 0.9 percent to 812.79 as of 4:43 p.m. in Kiev
today, below the lowest closing level since April 2009. The
hryvnia weakened to 8.1630 per dollar from 8.1578 yesterday.  Economic Outlook  Falling steel prices are triggering a second-half recession
after the economy grew 5.2 percent in 2011, Erste Bank Group AG
said Oct. 16. Fitch Ratings estimates Ukrainian economic growth
will slow to 0.5 percent this year, analyst Charles Seville said
at a conference in Kiev today, adding that elections present
“potential risk” if their conduct isn’t “smooth.”  Yanukovych’s approval rating is 12.6 percent, down from
37.8 percent in 2010, according to the Razumkov Center for
Economic and Political Studies, based in the capital, Kiev.  Reverting to rules under which half of lawmakers are
elected in single-mandate districts, instead of by proportional
representation, has boosted his party’s prospects this week,
according to Valeriy Chalyi, Razumkov’s deputy director.  Independent candidates’ complaints against the authorities
in those districts have increased during the last month, the
European Network of Election Monitoring Organizations said Oct.
8 in a  report . They allege administrative pressure, harassment
by tax bodies and voter bribery.  ‘Election Tricks’  “I thought I knew all the election tricks, but Ukraine
surprised me once again,” Marek Siwiec, a European Parliament
member monitoring the election, wrote Oct. 16 on his blog.  Yanukovych, whose 2004 presidential victory was annulled by
the Supreme Court as part of the Orange Revolution, has also
cracked down on independent media such as the Kiev-based TVi
channel through tax-police searches and fines, and monopolized
television airtime.  “The significant lack of political pluralism on television
is very worrisome and requires immediate action,” EU foreign
policy chief Catherine Ashton said Oct. 12 in a statement. The
elections “will be a litmus test of Ukraine’s democratic
credentials.”  Besides Tymoshenko, who was jailed for seven years in 2011
for abuse of office while premier, courts have imprisoned Yuriy Lutsenko and Valery Ivashchenko, who both served in her Cabinet,
drawing EU and U.S. criticism.  Opinion Polls  “No doubt, there are flaws,” First Deputy Prime Minister
Valeriy Khoroshkovskiy said in Oct. 18 interview. “We are
trying to fix them promptly. Participation of single-mandate
candidates adds difficulty.”  Polls suggest the Party of Regions will preserve its hold
on the 450-seat legislature. Yanukovych, who’s raised social
spending and introduced a higher status for the Russian language
that prevails in his core eastern electorate, currently controls
Parliament through a coalition with the Communists and the party
of house speaker Volodymyr Lytvyn.  The Party of Regions has 23.3 percent backing, compared
with 16 percent for world boxing champion Vitaly Klitschko, 15.1
percent for Tymoshenko’s Fatherland and 10.1 percent for the
Communists, according to a Sept. 18-Oct. 4 survey of 2,043
voters by the Kiev-based Democratic Initiative Fund.  Undecided Voters  While support for Ukraine Forward, where Shevchenko and
Korolevskaya vow to improve the quality of health care, is below
the 5 percent threshold, 24 percent of voters are undecided, the
poll showed.  Ukraine is striving to ensure a clean election and sees the
ballot reviving its EU Association Agreement, according to
Khoroshkovskiy.  “I’m sure that if the elections are recognized as free and
democratic, our partners will meet us halfway,” he said in an
Oct. 18 interview. “We expect to sign the agreements.”  Ukraine has invited 4,000 international observers to
monitor the vote and has installed web cameras at polling
stations to guard against violations.  “All participants in the election are working under equal
conditions,” Yanukovych said Oct. 17. “We’re interested more
than anyone else in elections being conducted in an honest,
transparent and democratic manner.”  Still, only 8.8 percent of Ukrainians say the ballot will
be fair, according to the Democratic Initiative Fund.  While Korolevskaya says her eight-month-old party is
independent, some voters aren’t convinced.  “I think Korolevskaya’s party is Yanukovych’s project and
he hopes she’ll grab votes from the opposition,” Volodymyr
Dubitsky, 28, a computer programmer from Kiev, said yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Kateryna Choursina in Kiev at 
 kchoursina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  