-- SongKick Brings Crowd-Sourcing to Concerts With Bird Tour
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-10-23T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/songkick-brings-crowd-sourcing-to-concerts-with-bird-tour.html
SongKick.com Ltd., which alerts
users when their favorite bands are coming to town, is expanding
a service that lets fans choose the cities where artists will
perform.  Recording artist  Andrew Bird  will make himself available to
play in 12 Latin American cities during a 12-day stretch in
February, SongKick co-founder  Ian Hogarth  said in an interview.
Where he actually performs will depend on pre-sales through the
London-based company’s website. Hogarth said he hopes to create
six shows out of the 12 possible dates.  The goal of SongKick’s Detour program is to give artists
the financial support to venture into new territories. The
service adapts the Internet’s crowd-sourcing funding mechanism,
by which individuals pledge money to bankroll a startup -- 
asking fans to buy tickets ahead of time for concerts. If 
half the tickets are sold, the show will take place.  “The crowd creates the show online and shows up in real
life for the concert,” Hogarth said by phone. “This is still
very experimental, but crowd-sourcing has the potential to
revolutionize the concert industry.’  Crowd-sourcing provides funding for artists to travel to
towns and countries normally omitted from their tour routes,
Hogarth said. The company has previously used Detour to bring
bands to London that wouldn’t otherwise travel there.  Bird, who has played with the Squirrel Nut Zippers,
releases his album ‘‘ Hands of Glory ,” on Oct. 30. He has never
played in  South America , according to Hogarth. The proposed
dates, from Feb. 17 to Feb. 28 of next year, would occur in
 Mexico , Columbia, Brazil and six other countries.  SongKick gets paid a referral fee by clients including  Live
Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) ’s Ticketmaster and Anschutz
Entertainment Group when users click through and buy a ticket.
The company,  which averages about 7 million visitors a month,
received $10 million in March from  Sequoia Capital , a Menlo
Park, California-based venture capital firm, its third funding
round.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  