-- Spain Output Shrinks Fifth Quarter Amid Bailout Talk: Economy
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-10-23T16:30:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/spain-s-economy-shrinks-for-fifth-quarter-as-rajoy-mulls-bailout.html
Spain ’s economy contracted for a
fifth quarter, adding pressure on Premier  Mariano Rajoy  to seek
more European aid even as the euro area’s fourth-largest economy
met a bill-sales target.  Gross domestic product fell 0.4 percent in the three months
through September from the previous quarter, matching the
contraction of the second quarter, the Bank of Spain said in an
estimate in its monthly bulletin released in  Madrid  today. That
compares with a median forecast for a 0.7 percent contraction in
a Bloomberg News survey of 10 economists.  Spain’s bonds have declined since European Union leaders
last week failed to discuss further aid for the nation at a
Brussels summit. Rajoy has struggled to trim a 2011  budget
deficit  that was more than three times the EU limit, after the
country’s deepening recession pushed the jobless rate over 25
percent, sapping demand and  tax revenue .  “Progress isn’t conclusive, there is a huge amount of
uncertainty in Spain right now,” said Ebrahim Rhbari, a London-
based economist at Citigroup Inc. “There are question marks
about the banking sector and public finances and economic
fundamentals suggest we will see a bailout sooner than later.”  Spain’s economy probably contracted 1.7 percent in the
third quarter from a year ago, as job losses continued,
households ate into their savings and low disposable income
reduced their ability to pay down debt, the Bank of Spain said.  The euro weakened 0.7 percent against the dollar and was at
$1.2972 as of 6:03 p.m. in Brussels. The Stoxx Europe 600 Index
dropped for a third day, falling 1.7 percent.  Spanish Bonds  Spain’s  10-year bond yield  rose 13 basis points to 5.6
percent after the nation sold 3.53 billion euros ($4.6 billion)
of three- and six-month bills, in line with its maximum target
for the auction. That compares with an intraday record of 7.75
percent on July 25, a day after Spain signed a document fixing
the conditions for a 100 billion-euro EU credit line for its
banks. Even with those bond gains, Spain still pays 405 basis
points more than  Germany  to borrow for 10 years.  The bill sale took place after Moody’s Investors Service
lowered the  credit rating  on Catalonia, the biggest contributor
to GDP, along with four other Spanish regions.  Spain itself is on the verge of junk territory, as Moody’s
last week decided against cutting its credit-rating below
investment grade while retaining a negative outlook. The country
is rated one step above junk with  Standard & Poor’s  and two
levels higher by  Fitch Ratings .  ECB Purchases  For now, Rajoy is playing down the necessity of seeking
additional aid as the country’s borrowing costs have dropped
since the  European Central Bank  offered in August to buy bonds
on the secondary market of countries that request aid from the
euro-area rescue fund and agree to conditions.  “Now the ECB has set up a mechanism to purchase a
country’s bonds in the secondary market if it requests it,
that’s an important step forward,” Rajoy said.  Rajoy said the banking union won’t be effective before 2014
because decisions made by 27 states take a long time to make.  “The mere fact we are now talking about a banking union is
important,” Rajoy said. “Of course it can’t enter in force
before 2014 in the same way the euro was approved in 1998-99 and
entered in force in 2002 because things take time.”  Budget Deficit  Eurostat data yesterday showed Spain’s budget gap was 9.4
percent of GDP last year, the second-largest in the  euro zone 
with Greece. Ireland had the highest budget deficit.  Spain will meet its 2012 budget deficit goal of 6.3 percent
of GDP as the central government’s shortfall in the nine months
through September was 3.9 percent, Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro told lawmakers today in Madrid.  The European Commission will publish its assessment of
Spain’s action to correct its deficit on Nov. 7, focusing on
compliance with structural deficit goals rather than its nominal
target, spokesman Simon O’Connor said yesterday.  Wilbur Ross , the billionaire who has bought stakes in
distressed banks in the U.S., the U.K. and Ireland, said he
speaks weekly with representatives of Spain’s largest banks as
he mulls an investment in the industry.  “Maybe next year will be the year for Spain,” Ross said
in an interview in  Abu Dhabi . “They’re just now beginning to
recognize the magnitude of the problems. Until now they’ve been
in total denial of the problems.”  Request for Aid  Spain’s IEE, a research institute tied to the country’s
main business lobby CEOE, called yesterday on Rajoy to apply for
support as soon as possible to improve companies’ and banks’
access to credit. The IEE said Spain should accept conditions
for the aid and reduce spending on health care, pensions and
 unemployment benefits  to help the economy recover.  “Markets may eventually force Spain if it appears to be
playing with time to avoid seeking aid altogether,” said Jesus Castillo, an economist at Natixis in Paris. “The danger of
Spain losing access to markets is less now because everyone
expects it to apply sooner or later.”  European leaders are struggling to restore investor
confidence in the currency region after German Chancellor Angela Merkel sparked concern by ruling out retroactive bank
recapitalizations by the European Stability Mechanism, or ESM,
rescue fund at a summit in Brussels on Oct 19.  Seeking Certainty  ECB Executive Board member Joerg Asmussen said yesterday a
country’s aid request to the ESM doesn’t automatically trigger
bond purchases by the ECB. Spanish Deputy Prime Minister Soraya Saenz de Santamaria said on Oct. 11 the country won’t apply for
the aid unless it is certain that it will materialize.  Spain’s economy may struggle to emerge from recession as
the euro area’s economic slump deepens. French industrial
confidence fell to the lowest in more than three years in
October as a lack of euro-area growth weighed on exports and
looming tax increases sapped consumer demand. Sentiment among
factory executives fell to 85 from 90 September, national
statistics office Insee said today.  Faurecia (EO) , Europe’s largest maker of car interiors, cut its
2012 profit outlook, forecasting a decline in fourth-quarter
European sales on a “significant” slowdown in auto production.  Central Banks  Elsewhere,  Sri Lanka  left  interest rates  unchanged for a
sixth month and Singapore’s inflation accelerated more than
economists estimated in September, supporting the central bank’s
decision to refrain from easing monetary policy this month. In
 Taiwan , industrial production rose 3 percent in September from a
year ago, less than economists forecast.  In the U.S., Federal Reserve policy makers begin a two-day
meeting in  Washington  today.  For Spain’s economy, the worst may still be ahead, said
 Ricardo Santos , an economist at BNP Paribas SA in  London .  “The fact that consumption fell less than in the second
quarter ahead of the September tax increases suggests that the
worst of the contraction is yet to come,” he wrote in an e-
mailed note. “The full impact of the austerity measures should
be felt later this year and into 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  