-- Sri Lanka Holds Rates to Curb Inflation as Growth Outlook Dims
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-10-23T02:17:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/sri-lanka-holds-rates-to-curb-inflation-as-growth-outlook-dims.html
Sri Lanka left interest rates
unchanged for a sixth month to help damp inflation as tumbling
exports hamper economic expansion.  The Central Bank of Sri Lanka kept its  reverse repurchase
rate  at 9.75 percent and the  repurchase rate  at 7.75 percent, it
said in a statement in  Colombo  today. The decision was predicted
by eight economists in a Bloomberg News survey, with one calling
for a reduction of 25 basis points in both benchmarks.  Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal last month cut the forecast
for 2012 growth to 6.8 percent after a drought hurt farm output
and following increases in borrowing costs earlier this year to
tackle import demand that stoked a trade shortfall. Sri Lanka
has also let its rupee drop to pare the deficit, fanning an
inflation rate of more than 9 percent, one of Asia’s highest.  “While slowing economic growth is a concern, for the time
being, the priority for the authorities is stabilizing the
economy,” Gareth Leather, a London-based economist at Capital
Economics Ltd., said before the release. “Interest rates are
likely to remain on hold for the rest of this year and in
2013.”  The rupee has weakened 12.2 percent against the dollar this
year, while the  Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  is down 8.6 percent.  The central bank said in today’s statement that its “tight”
monetary-policy stance is expected to “help maintain inflation
at mid-single digit levels over the medium term.”  Cabraal on Sept. 27 reduced the estimate for gross domestic
product growth this year from 7.2 percent earlier.  Sri Lanka’s overseas sales of items from garments to tea
have declined for all except one month this year. Consumer
prices in the capital, Colombo, rose 9.1 percent in September
from a year earlier, after advancing 9.5 percent in August.  Cabraal raised borrowing costs in February and April to try
and reduce a trade deficit that has pressured currency reserves.
The International Monetary Fund has loaned Sri Lanka $2.6
billion to help rebuild them.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  