-- Stanford’s Political Donations Must Be Returned, Court Says
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-10-23T23:19:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/stanford-s-political-donations-must-be-returned-court-says-2-.html
Five Republican and Democratic
national political committees must repay $1.6 million in
campaign donations  Texas  financier R.  Allen Stanford  contributed
out of $7 billion he stole from investors, an appeals court
ruled.  Two Democratic committees and three Republican committees
had urged a  New Orleans  appellate panel to overturn a lower-
court order that they return contributions Stanford donated from
2000 to 2008 to his court-appointed receiver, who is marshaling
assets to repay investors.  At oral arguments in May, the political groups argued that
they were legally entitled to keep the donations, which were
spent long ago on a variety of campaigns.  “The committees’ argument would lead to absurd results,”
U.S. Circuit Judge James Dennis said in a 14-page decision.
“Under their interpretation, they would be allowed to keep
funds that were, for example, stolen by force or fraud so long
as the contributions did not run afoul” of U.S. campaign-
finance restrictions.  $7 Billion  “Nor does the fact that the original funds have been spent
preclude the receiver from asserting his claim,” Dennis said.  Stanford, 62, is serving a 110-year prison sentence after
he was convicted in March of swindling investors of $7 billion
through bogus certificates of deposit at Antigua-based Stanford
International Bank Ltd.  Stanford and his companies donated $950,500 to the
Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee; $238,500 to the
 National Republican Congressional Committee ; $200,000 to the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee; $128,500 to the
 Republican National Committee ; and $83,345 to the  National
Republican Senatorial Committee , according to the ruling. With
court-ordered interest added, the five committees must repay
more than $1.7 million, according to court records.  “Today’s court ruling affirms the long-standing principle
that federal equity receivers are permitted to recover
fraudulent transfers made by the individuals and entities over
whom they are appointed,’’ Scott Powers, an attorney for the
receiver, said in an e-mail. ‘‘The ruling also brings Stanford’s
victims one step closer to recovering over $1.6 million in
political donations that Allen Stanford and his co-conspirators
made using other people’s money. With attorneys’ fees, costs,
and interest, the total recovery under the Court’s judgment
could exceed $2.2 million.’’  Mark Shank, an attorney representing the Republican
committees, and attorneys Brian Svoboda and Marc Elias, who
represent the Democratic committees, didn’t immediately respond
to voice or e-mail messages asking if their clients will appeal
the decision.  The case is Janvey v. Democratic Senatorial Campaign
Committee Inc., 11-10704,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Fifth
Circuit (New Orleans).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 