-- Stay Alive: Imagine Yourself Decades From Now
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2012-10-23T22:30:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/stay-alive-imagine-yourself-decades-from-now.html
Many of us have said our own version
of St. Augustine’s famous prayer, “Grant me chastity and
continence, but not yet.” We vow to start dieting and exercising
(next month). We promise to begin saving money (later). Soon, we
will be calling to make that long-overdue dental appointment
(maybe).  Philosophers and social scientists have been keenly
interested in learning exactly why some people fail to give a
lot of weight to their own futures, even when that failure
produces real hardship. Perhaps those who start to smoke don’t
even identify with their future selves, who may be seriously
harmed as a result.  Behavioral economists have  explored  the phenomenon of
“present bias,” which leads some of us to make decisions that
produce short-term rewards but long-term headaches. Of course it
makes sense to prefer a dollar today to a dollar tomorrow. But
does it make sense to prefer a dollar today to 10 dollars in two
months? With respect to health and finances, some people seem to
think about their future selves in the same way that they think
about complete strangers.  As it happens, this is no mere metaphor. Studies of the
human brain demonstrate that some of us do exactly that.
Neuroscientists have learned that when people are thinking about
themselves, an identifiable region of the brain, called the
ventromedial prefrontal cortex (VMPFC), is most actively
engaged. When people are thinking about others, the VMPFC is not
so active. Here, then, is a remarkable research opportunity. If
you ask people to think about themselves in the future, is the
VMPFC active -- or not?  Impatience Penalty  Harvard psychologist  Jason Mitchell  and his co-authors
enlisted neuroimaging to  answer  this question. The basic finding
is that impatient people -- those who neglect the long term --
seem to think about their future selves in the same way that
they think about other people.  Here’s how the experiment worked. People were asked how
much they would enjoy engaging in some activity (such as
watching a sunrise) in the next day or in a year. They were also
asked how much another person (a stranger) would enjoy the same
activity in the two periods. The participants’ brains were
scanned to examine the activity of the VMPFC when people were
thinking about themselves and strangers in the next day and in
the next year. At a later time (between two weeks and four
months later), the same participants were asked whether they
wanted an immediate reward or a larger reward subsequently.  An important finding is that for some people, the VMPFC was
about equally active when they were thinking about themselves
both in the next day and in the next year, whereas for other
people, the VMPFC was far more active when they were thinking
about themselves in the next day.  Those in the former group, with a lot of activity in the
VMPFC when thinking about their future selves, were more likely
to reject an immediate reward in favor of a bigger reward in the
future. By contrast, those in the latter group, with less
activity in the VMPFC when thinking about their future selves,
were impatient. In terms of the operation of the brain, they
thought of their future selves in the same way that they thought
of strangers. That kind of thinking was reflected in their
unwillingness to give up an immediate reward in return for a
bigger reward in the future. Here, then, is a clue, located in
the brain itself, to why some people give relatively little
weight to their own futures.  Can anything be done to encourage people to give the future
a bit more weight?  Hal Hershfield , a professor at  New York 
University’s Stern School of Business, and his co-authors  tried 
a simple nudge: Provide people with digital pictures designed to
show them what they will look like a few decades from now. Then
explore whether seeing those pictures will make people more
likely to save for the future, rather than spending the same
money on a fun occasion or “to buy something nice for someone
special.”  Changed Behavior  The result? People who were exposed to images of their
future selves significantly increased (and in some cases more
than doubled) the amount of money that they allocated to their
retirement account. Both college students and a number of adults
showed the same basic pattern.  True, the proper tradeoff between the present and the
future isn’t always obvious. Reasonable people focus more on
their well-being in 2013 than in 2023. You might refuse to
suffer acutely now merely because you might benefit in the
distant future. Nonetheless, the problem remains: A lot of
people run into serious trouble because they don’t sufficiently
identify with their future selves.  It might not be a ton of fun to imagine what you will look
like a few decades from now. But consider giving it a shot. The
life you save may be your own.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Felix Frankfurter professor of law
at  Harvard University , is a Bloomberg View  columnist . He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and the author,
most recently, of “On Rumors: How Falsehoods Spread.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  the drug shortage behind the
meningitis outbreak  and on why  Palestinians should pursue
elections before statehood ;  Margaret Carlson  on  why politics is
so personal  in  Massachusetts ; Clive Crook on what  Obama could
learn from Romney  about tacking to the center;  Peter Orszag  on
how states have avoided  pension funding problems ; Ronen Bergman
on  Hezbollah’s preparations for war .  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 