-- STMicro Makes Plans to Get Leaner as Chip Demand Is Weak
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-10-24T09:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/stmicro-says-quarterly-sales-may-fall-on-europe-slowdown.html
STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,  Europe ’s
largest chipmaker, said it’s cutting costs amid weakened demand
and will explain its plan for a “leaner” business in December.  “End-demand has weakened in the second half of this year,
and not only in Europe,” Chief Executive Officer  Carlo Bozotti 
said on a conference call today. “We want to take into account
the change in market environment and some specific customer
dynamics, and will announce a plan that will cover our vision,
our strategy, the structure of the company and the key future
drivers of our business.”  The company is evaluating a reorganization as rapid swings
in demand and stiff competition from  Asia  roil the semiconductor
industry. Bozotti is putting chips in cars, health and fitness
machines to make up for the decline of phone-maker  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) ,
one of its biggest  customers .  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest
chipmaker, last week forecast fourth-quarter profit margins
below estimates amid slumping demand for personal computers.  STMicroelectronics, based in Geneva, plans to cut costs by
$150 million a year by the end of 2013 with initiatives related
to its “unified processing platform” and from other moves,
such as efficiencies in its “process technology development
model” and expenses related to design outsourcing. As many as
500 jobs may be affected, it said in a statement yesterday. The
chipmaker said it will also temporarily close plants.  STMicroelectronics shares gained 3.2 percent to 4.80 euros
at 11:37 a.m. in Paris trading.  “I think the market was already expecting weak results and
guidance, and is now focusing on potential upside from the
upcoming strategic review,” said Saverio Papagno, an analyst at
AZ Fund Management in Luxembourg.  ‘One STM’  The company’s fourth-quarter revenue may range from a
decline of about 5 percent to an increase of about 2 percent,
compared with third-quarter sales of $2.17 billion, it said
yesterday. That indicates a range of about $2.06 billion to
$2.21 billion and compares with the average analyst estimate of
$2.26 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The chipmaker may split its analog business, which makes
chips for cars and video-game consoles, from slower-growing
digital assets, people familiar with its deliberations said this
month. The chipmaker will remain unified and there are no plans
to split the company, Bozotti said again today.  “We will have one STM and it will be a leaner company,”
Bozotti said, though he declined to detail the plan or comment
on possible assets sales. “We will go through the roadmap of
our financial model in a shorter timeframe.”  Wireless Loss  The chip company posted a net loss of $478 million in the
third quarter compared with net income of $71 million a year
earlier, because of a non-cash charge of $690 million to write
down the value of its wireless business.  STMicroelectronics has felt the heat as Nokia lost market
share in the mobile-phone business. Last week, Nokia posted its
sixth straight loss since adopting Microsoft Corp.’s Windows
software and projected another “transition” quarter as it
revamps its handset lineup to challenge Apple Inc.’s iPhone.  Even as STMicroelectronics’s wireless unit posted “strong
progress” in the third quarter, the segment’s operating loss
and negative cash flows “remain significant,” the company
said.  The gross margin, the percentage of revenue left after
subtracting manufacturing costs, widened to 34.8 percent in the
third quarter from 34.3 percent in the previous period.
STMicroelectronics forecast fourth-quarter  gross margin  will be
32 percent, plus or minus 2 percentage points.  ‘Flat’ Sales  The chipmaker has been affected by losses at ST-Ericsson,
its chip joint venture with  Ericsson AB (ERICB) , which hasn’t turned
profitable since being formed in 2009.  ST-Ericsson  said
yesterday that its third-quarter net loss, on a pro-forma basis,
narrowed to $190 million from $318 million in the previous
quarter. Net sales rose to $359 million from $344 million in the
previous quarter.  ST-Ericsson, which competes with San Diego-based market
leader  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , projected fourth-quarter sales to be
“approximately flat” from the previous quarter.  STMicroelectronics has said it is working with an adviser
to define a strategy for ST-Ericsson after announcing in April
plans to eliminate 1,700 jobs at the unit and transfer some
product development to trim costs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  