-- Stream Global Said to Set Rate on $290 Million Term Loan B
-- B y   M i c h a e l   A m a t o
-- 2012-10-23T20:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/stream-global-said-to-set-rate-on-290-million-term-loan-b-1-.html
Stream Global Services Inc., a
provider of  customer service  and technical support, set the
 interest rate  it will pay on a $290 million term loan B it’s
seeking to refinance debt, according to a person with knowledge
of the transaction.  Price guidance on the term loan B is 5.25 percentage points
more than the London interbank offered rate, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the information is
private. Libor, a rate banks say they can borrow in dollars from
each other, will have a 1.25 percent floor.  Stream Global is proposing to sell the loan at 99 cents on
the dollar, the person said, reducing proceeds for the company
and boosting the yield to investors.  Lenders will receive one-year soft-call protection of 101
cents, according to the person, meaning the company would have
to pay 1 cent more than face value to refinance the debt during
the first year.  The financing also includes a $65 million five-year
revolving line of credit and a $45 million seven-year delayed-
draw term loan B, the person said.  The delayed-draw piece won’t pay a ticking fee for the
first 30 days, then 262.5 basis-points after 30 days, then the
full spread of 525 basis points after 60 days, according to the
person. A ticking fee is paid to lenders to compensate them for
the time between the commitment allocation and the actual
funding.  Proceeds will be used to refinance all outstanding
borrowings under the company’s existing credit facility, its
11.25 percent senior secured notes due 2014 and for general
corporate purposes, the company said in an Oct. 19  statement .  Morgan Stanley,  Wells Fargo & Co ., Bank of America Corp.
are arranging the financing for the Eagan, Minnesota-based
company and commitments are due Nov. 6, the person said.  Leo Vannoni, treasurer of Stream Global, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Amato in  New York  at 
 mamato3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chapin Wright at 
 cwright4@bloomberg.net  