-- Strip-Club Fees Aren’t Tax Exempt, N.Y. Top Court Rules
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h   a n d   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-10-23T21:16:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/strip-club-fees-aren-t-tax-exempt-n-y-top-court-rules.html
A New York strip club can’t claim a
tax exemption on entrance and performance fees on the grounds
that it presents “musical arts performances,” the state’s
highest court ruled.  The New York Court of Appeals in Albany today upheld a
lower court’s ruling that  Nite Moves , an adult “juice bar” in
Latham, New York, didn’t prove to tax authorities that its stage
and couch dances merited the exemption granted to artistic
performances.  “It is not irrational for the tax tribunal to decline to
extend a tax exemption to every act that declares itself a
‘dance performance,’” the Court of Appeals said in a 4-3
decision.  While the state imposes a sales tax on any admission charge
greater than 10 cents for the use of a “place of amusement,”
the Legislature created an exemption for “dramatic or musical
arts performances,” according to the ruling.  Nite Moves, which calls itself an “upscale non-alcoholic
juice bar,” argued its performances entitled the adult-
entertainment business to the exemption, according to the
ruling.  The club, which was required to show that its fees were
admission charges for choreographed dance routines, failed to
prove that performances on either the main stage or in private
rooms qualified for the tax break, the  Court of Appeals  said.  Private Dances  The state’s Tax Appeal Tribunal discredited an expert
presented by the club who said the performances were
choreographed, finding that her testimony was compromised by her
opinion that private dances were the same as those on the main
stage although she didn’t observe them or have personal
knowledge, according to the ruling.  The tribunal is a panel of three commissioners appointed by
the governor that heads the state’s Division of Tax Appeals,
created by the legislature in 1986 to resolve tax and licensing
disputes, according to its  website .  Court of Appeals Judge Robert S. Smith disagreed with the
majority, saying the tribunal’s ruling “makes a distinction
between highbrow dance and lowbrow dance that is not to be found
in the governing statute and raises significant constitutional
problems.”  Hustler Tax  “Like the majority and the tribunal, I find this
particular form of dance unedifying -- indeed, I am stuffy
enough to find it distasteful,” Smith wrote in his dissent.
“Perhaps, for similar reasons I do not read Hustler magazine; I
would rather read the New Yorker. I would be appalled, however,
if the state were to exact from Hustler a tax that the New
Yorker did not have to pay, on the ground that what appears in
Hustler is insufficiently ‘cultural and artistic.’”  The majority said qualifying the dances as artistic
performances would “allow the exemption to swallow the general
tax” since other forms of entertainment not specified by the
Legislature would ask to be spared from the levy.  “If ice shows presenting pairs ice dancing performances,
with intricately choreographed dance moves precisely arranged to
musical compositions, were not viewed by the Legislature as
‘dance’ entitled a tax exemption, surely it was not irrational
for the tax tribunal to conclude that a club presenting
performances by women gyrating on a pole to music, however
artistic or athletic their practiced moves are, was also not a
qualifying performance entitled to exempt status,” the majority
wrote.  Considering Alternatives  Andrew McCullough, a Utah-based attorney representing Nite
Moves, didn’t immediately respond to messages seeking comment on
the ruling. McCullough told the Associated Press that he and his
clients are disappointed with the ruling and are considering
alternatives that include a petition to the U.S. Supreme Court.  The club had appealed an assessment of $124,000 in sales
tax plus interest, Cary B. Ziter, a spokesman for the New York
State Department of Taxation and Finance, said in a telephone
interview.  “We’ve been saying all along that they failed to prove
that a tax exemption applied in this situation,” Ziter said in
a statement. “We’re pleased with this decision, because it
gives similar business clear guidance on the issue of sales tax
when it comes to live exotic dance establishments.”  The case is 677 New Loudon Corp. v. New York Tax Appeals
Tribunal, 157, New York Court of Appeals ( Albany ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  