-- Swaps Users Granted Grace Period to Clear Trades, Gensler Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2012-10-23T15:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/swaps-users-granted-grace-period-to-clear-trades-gensler-says.html
Swaps-market participants will have
a grace period before trades are required to be cleared,
settling confusion over a rule that will begin early next year,
said Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler .  Firms dealing in  $648 trillion  of outstanding swaps
contracts expected that trading during a phase-in period
wouldn’t need to be processed by central clearinghouses,
according to an Oct. 5 e-mail sent to clients by Davis Polk &
Wardwell LLP, which represents the Securities Industry and
Financial Markets Association. While the firms were wrong,
misreading one sentence in 17,000 words of regulation, Gensler
said today the idea was always to allow a grace period.  “I know what I believed when I voted on it, it was
prospective,” he told reporters today at Sifma’s annual
conference in  New York , saying that the market needs time to
adjust to the “paradigm shift” of bringing U.S. oversight to
unregulated interest-rate, credit-default and other swaps and to
move them into clearinghouses. “This was an easy one for me,”
Gensler said.  Dealers and money managers that trade swaps had faced the
potential need to find cash and Treasuries to back the trades
sooner than they anticipated. The 2010 Dodd-Frank Act is
requiring swaps be moved to the  central counterparties  to limit
the kinds of risks that fueled panic during the 2008 credit
crisis.  Two Interpretations  Referring to the Davis Polk e-mail, Gensler said some
market users were confused about how the final rule, passed by
the CFTC on June 30, was written.  “The language in the final could be read two different
ways,” he said.  The mix-up surrounding when most swaps would need to be
cleared arose after the CFTC established two separate deadlines:
one setting an effective date in which the clearing mandate
begins and another by which market participants must be in
compliance. Three categories of swaps users were established,
giving them 90 days, 180 days, or 270 days after the effective
date to comply.  “Market participants will be required only to clear swaps
executed on and after their applicable compliance date, thus
providing time to comply with the clearing requirement,”
Gensler said today in a speech at the Sifma conference.  Clearing the trades sooner than expected might have
required swaps users to acquire as much as $50 billion in
additional collateral, according to Anshuman Jaswal, senior
analyst at financial research firm Celent in New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 