-- Syngenta Considers More Takeovers for Seeds, Bio-Control
-- B y   P a t r i c k   W i n t e r s
-- 2012-10-23T08:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/syngenta-cfo-considers-more-takeovers-for-seeds-bio-pesticides.html
Syngenta AG (SYNN) , the world’s largest
maker of crop chemicals, said it will continue to pursue
takeovers after agreeing to buy Belgian hybrid-rice maker Devgen
last month.  “This is an example where in one quarter we can take three
quarters of a billion dollars off the balance sheet without a
blink,” Chief Financial Officer John Ramsay said in an
interview. “M&A continues to be a major part of our strategy.”  The Swiss company is seeking to overcome resistance to
chemical-based pesticides, its largest business, by buying up
smaller makers of biological alternatives as well as genetically
modified traits to boost revenue to $25 billion by 2020 from
$13.3 billion. Syngenta last month agreed to buy Devgen for 403
million euros ($526 million) and biological controls company
Pasteuria Bioscience for $113 million.  Third-quarter sales rose 1.3 percent from a year earlier to
$2.7 billion, Basel-based Syngenta said in a statement today.
That compared with the $2.76 billion average estimate of
analysts in a Bloomberg survey. Competitor  Monsanto Co. (MON)  reported
sales on Oct. 3 that missed analyst estimates.  Syngenta shares rose 1 percent to 346.9 Swiss francs as of
10:08 a.m. in Zurich.  There are “very few, perhaps one or two” viable takeover
targets left on the market, Ramsay said, as Syngenta battles
rivals to capture the most innovative bug-fighting technologies.  BASF SE (BAS)  and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  have pumped up their biological crop-
chemicals units. BASF agreed to buy Becker Underwood Inc. for
$1.02 billion in September and Bayer said in July that it would
buy Agraquest Inc. for $425 million.  Drought restrained Syngenta’s fungicide sales in the U.S.
in the third quarter and a delayed monsoon caused a shortfall in
crop-chemical sales in India and  Japan  even as sales rose 18
percent in  Latin America  amid higher soybean prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Winters in Zurich at 
 pwinters3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  