-- U.K. Labour Party Would Force Energy Suppliers to Cut Prices
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-10-23T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/u-k-labour-party-would-force-energy-suppliers-to-cut-prices.html
Britain’s opposition  Labour Party 
said it would force gas and electricity companies to cut bills
for consumers when wholesale prices drop as it prepared to
debate in Parliament measures to overhaul the energy market.  Labour said it would abolish Ofgem, the regulator, and
create a more powerful body to implement the pricing policy. It
said it would force energy suppliers to put people over age 75
on the cheapest tariff and force generators to pool energy so
that every retailer has access to it.  Labour would “break the dominance of the energy giants,
protect vulnerable customers from being ripped off and create a
tough new energy regulator with the power to force energy
companies to pass on savings to consumers,”  Caroline Flint , the
party’s main energy spokeswoman in Parliament, said in an e-
mailed statement today.  Labour is seeking to capitalize on a policy reversal by
Prime Minister  David Cameron  last week, when he backed away from
a pledge to force gas and electricity suppliers to charge
customers the lowest possible prices. Labour will use a House of
Commons debate today to push for measures to help consumers, who
it says have seen energy bills increase by 200 pounds ($320) a
year since Cameron became prime minister in 2010.  The prime minister’s original announcement Oct. 17 was an
attempt to respond to public anger after energy providers
including  Centrica Plc (CNA)  and RWE Npower Plc announced price
increases to take effect as winter approaches.  A day later, Cameron’s spokeswoman, Vickie Sheriff, told
reporters the planned legislation might include imposing a duty
on companies to inform customers of lower tariffs. Energy
Minister  John Hayes  told lawmakers only that the legislation
would “help energy customers get the best deal.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  