-- U.K. Stocks Drop for a Third Day as Mulberry Slides
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-10-23T16:03:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/u-k-stocks-drop-for-a-third-day-as-mulberry-slides.html
U.K. stocks  tumbled by the most in
almost a month after  Mulberry (MUL)  Group Plc unexpectedly warned that
profit will drop for the full year and as company earnings from
the U.S. and continental Europe disappointed investors.  Mulberry plunged 24 percent, its biggest selloff in 14
years, as the luxury-handbag maker said a tougher climate in
Asia has led to declining shipments to wholesale customers.
 Burberry Group Plc (BRBY) , Britain’s largest luxury-goods company,
dropped 3.2 percent. Mining companies sank with metal prices.  The  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  dropped 1.4 percent to 5,797.91 at the
close in  London . Only two stocks on the equity benchmark climbed
today. The volume of shares changing hands on the gauge was 7
percent lower than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The broader FTSE All-Share Index and
Ireland’s ISEQ Index both lost 1.4 percent.  “There is no doubt that concern over the falling quality
of earnings is beginning to get under investors’ skin,” said
 David Buik , a market strategist at Cantor Index Ltd. in London.
“That does not necessarily signal a selloff, but it does keep
the market makers’ light on their feet. An adjustment cannot be
ruled out.”  Stocks fell yesterday after  Japan’s exports  tumbled and
U.S. companies reported sales that trailed forecasts. The
benchmark FTSE 100 has still  climbed 10 percent from this year’s
low  on June 1 as the  European Central Bank  and the U.S. Federal
Reserve introduced unlimited bond-purchasing programs.  U.S. companies from 3M Co. to DuPont Co. cut their earnings
forecasts today, citing slowing demand in their respective
industries. In  Sweden , Alfa Laval AB lost more than 5 percent
after its order intake fell short of some estimates. Norsk Hydro
ASA retreated after the aluminum maker reported a loss in the
third quarter.  Mulberry Slumps  Mulberry plunged 24 percent to 1,006 pence, its biggest
drop since 1998, after the luxury company said full-year profit
will drop because of a 4 percent decline in wholesale shipments
to 30 million pounds ($48 million) in the six months to the end
of September.  The unscheduled announcement compares with analyst
estimates for full-year pretax profit to rise to 41.8 million
pounds from 36 million pounds in the previous 12 months. Revenue
growth will also miss estimates, the company said.  “There is a systemic trend that the whole luxury sector is
getting hit,”  Bill Blain , a strategist at Mint Partners Ltd.,
said on Bloomberg Television in London. “Any companies seen as
being slightly niche are the first to suffer from a change in
spending patterns. That is part of the reason for this enormous
collapse this morning.”  Burberry Retreats  Burberry slid 3.2 percent to 1,134 pence, its biggest
decline since Sept. 11. when the retailer warned that  full-year
profit  will disappoint as sales growth slows.  A gauge of U.K. mining companies slumped 2.3 percent as
copper tumbled to its lowest price in more than six weeks. Tin,
nickel and lead also retreated on the London Metal Exchange amid
concern about global growth.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  dropped 4.6 percent to 721.5 pence,
 Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  slid 3.4 percent to 1,265 pence, while  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s largest mining company, retreated 2.4
percent to 1,981.5 pence.  Whitbread Retreats  Whitbread Plc (WTB)  lost 0.8 percent to 2,305 pence after the
company said second-half sales growth at its Premier Inn chain
will moderate because of a flat consumer market. The shares fell
even as Whitbread’s first-half results met analysts’ estimates.  Chief Executive Officer Andy Harrison predicted that
revenue per available room will continue to decline in Premier
Inn’s regional market.  Numis Securities downgraded the  owner of Costa Coffee shops 
to hold from add, citing the shares’ strong recent performance.
The stock has  soared 47 percent  so far this year.  Trinity Mirror Plc (TNI)  sank 10 percent to 64.5 pence after four
people sued the publisher of the  Daily Mirror  and the Sunday
Mirror tabloids, accusing the newspapers of phone hacking. The
claimants include Sven-Goran Eriksson, the ex-England soccer
manager, according to  Mark Lewis , the lawyer for the four
people.  Trinity Mirror said today that lawyers have not provided it
with any substantiation of the claims, adding that all its
journalists work within the criminal law and Press Complaints
Commission’s code of conduct, according to a statement.  Chemring Tumbles  Chemring Group Plc (CHG)  tumbled 9.1 percent to 314.9 pence after
the board ousted chief executive officer  David Price , raising
concern that a takeover approach by Carlyle Group LLP will fail.  “The move potentially flags that the deal is collapsing,”
Oriel Securities Ltd. analyst Guy Brown wrote in a note today.
“It would appear odd to appoint a new CEO with the belief the
group is going to be taken over within a matter of weeks.”  Chemring appointed Mark Papworth as the new CEO who will
join the company on Nov. 5. Carlyle has until Nov. 9 to make an
offer for the company.  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  posted the biggest rally on the FTSE 100
today, climbing 7.7 percent to 640 pence, after reporting a 19
percent jump in third-quarter sales to 144.6 million pounds.
That beat the  average analyst estimate .  The company, whose chip designs are used in Apple Inc.’s
iPhone, forecast a strong fourth quarter for licensing revenue
and said it starts the final quarter of 2012 with a “record
backlog and a robust opportunity pipeline.”  Experian Plc (EXPN)  climbed 3.8 percent to 1,087 pence, after
agreeing to acquire a further 29.6 percent interest in Serasa SA
for about $1.5 billion. The company said the acquisition, which
increases its stake in the Brazilian credit bureau to 99.6
percent, would increase earnings in the year ending March 31,
2013. Experian will pay in cash.  In Ireland,  C&C Group Plc (GCC)  gained 0.7 percent to 3.80 euros.
The shares earlier jumped as much as 8.9 percent in Dublin
trading after the company bought Vermont Hard Cider Co. LLC for
$305 million, outweighing  first-half earnings  that missed
estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  