-- Banks Say Regulators Should Rewrite Basel III Capital Rules
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-10-23T20:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/u-s-banks-say-regulators-should-rewrite-basel-iii-capital-rules.html
U.S. banks are protesting capital
rules proposed by regulators to comply with international
standards and have asked that rules for assessing risk in their
assets be replaced with something easier to follow.  As written, the plans could “hinder credit availability,
dampen economic growth and harm the competitiveness of the U.S.
banking system,” according to a letter sent by financial
industry groups to the  Federal Reserve , Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. -- the agencies that put out so-called Basel III proposals
for a public-comment period ending yesterday.  The regulators proposed a tighter bank-capital regime in
June to comply with an international agreement drawn up by the
 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision . The measures, adopted
after the 2008 global financial crisis, are meant to make banks
less vulnerable in future emergencies. They call for all U.S.
banks to maintain “loss-absorbing capital” of at least 7
percent of risk-weighted assets.  “The proposals would have been more effective, with fewer
negative consequences, if the agencies had first conducted an
empirical study of the impact of the proposals on all segments
of the U.S. banking sector,” according to the 181-page letter
from the  American Bankers Association , Financial Services
Roundtable and the Securities Industry & Financial Markets
Association. The groups also suggested the proposal for risk-
weighting assets “should be simplified and easier to follow and
implement” and that banks need at least a year to implement
final rules.  No ‘Justification’  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said in a letter dated yesterday
that banks “should not be penalized by a five-fold increase in
required capital” because they have financial relationships
with brokers, as the proposals call for. There is no
“discernible reasonable justification” for subjecting broker-
dealers to a much higher risk weighting than exposure to U.S.
banking units, the letter said.  Several of the top 20 U.S. banks by assets, including
 Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI)  and  Regions
Financial Corp. (RF) , filed a joint letter that also asked for an
impact study and that banks be given at least six months to meet
the capital rules, as well as another two years after that to
implement the standardized approach to risk-weighted assets.  “It is difficult to actually create or adopt any systems
until the final rule is published because making changes to such
technology after-the-fact is materially more expensive than
waiting to have all the details,” the banks said in the letter,
dated yesterday.  Levels ‘Too Low’  Marcus Stanley, policy director at Americans for Financial
Reform, said that the proposals’ capital levels are
“significantly too low” and banks “can play games” because
of the complexity of measuring risk-adjusted capital in the
proposals. Stanley, whose Washington-based group advocates for
more aggressive financial regulations, said the proposed rules
maintain the risk that banks will overextend themselves as they
did before the crisis.  The June proposals pushed the stronger capital rules down
to even the smallest banks. The  Independent Community Bankers of
America  argued in its own letter yesterday that the Basel
standards were “never intended to apply to a domestic community
bank.”  Republicans on the House Financial Services Committee,
including Chairman  Spencer Bachus  of  Alabama  and  Jeb Hensarling 
of  Texas , urged regulators to avoid a “one size fits all”
approach on Basel and to instead tailor the requirements for
community and regional banks.  ‘Serious Concerns’  “While the higher  capital requirements  contained in Basel
III are entirely appropriate for large, internationally active
financial institutions that may pose a systemic risk to our
economy, the application of these requirements to community and
regional banks raises serious concerns,” the Republican
lawmakers wrote regulators in an Oct. 18 letter.  Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  said in a speech
today that community banks were included in the rules because
they are not immune to failure.  “We need to keep in mind that over 400 community banks and
thrifts have failed since 2008, and ultimately, they failed
because they didn’t have enough capital for the risks they
took,” he said at a banker event in Miami. Curry said last week
that smaller U.S. banks may get longer transition periods and
so-called grandfather clauses to help ease them into compliance
and that regulators would be “thinking broadly about ways to
reduce regulatory burden.”  Cost-Benefit Analysis  Senate Banking Committee ranking member  Richard Shelby , a
Republican from Alabama, said in a letter last week it’s
“imperative” that regulators provide Congress and the public
with a cost-benefit analysis.  The ABA and other groups said the U.S. banking sector
already upped its Tier 1 capital measure from a pre-crisis 7.5
percent in 2007 to 12.7 percent last year.  “Rather than being a buffer to economic turbulence, this
plan would cause capital to amplify economic volatility, making
it more difficult for banks to serve customers in hard times and
more expensive in even the best economic conditions,” said
 Frank Keating , president and chief executive officer of the
Washington-based ABA, in a statement. “Basel III would punish
institutions that make mortgage and small business lending a
significant part of their operations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  