-- U.S. Home Values Jump the Most Since 2006, Zillow Says
-- B y   P r a s h a n t   G o p a l
-- 2012-10-23T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/u-s-home-values-jump-the-most-since-2006-zillow-says.html
U.S. home values jumped 1.3 percent
in the third quarter, the biggest gain since 2006, in an uneven
recovery across the country,  Zillow Inc. (Z)  said.  The median value rose to $153,800 from $151,800 in the
previous three months on a seasonally adjusted basis, the
Seattle-based property-data company said in a report today. It
was the biggest increase in Zillow’s  Home Value Index  since the
first quarter of 2006, when values rose 1.5 percent.  Home prices  are rising nationally as the U.S.  unemployment 
rate declines and buyers compete for a tightening supply of
homes listed for sale. Still, values fell from the second
quarter in 52 percent of markets covered by the index as the
traditional homebuying season ended, according to Zillow Chief
Economist  Stan Humphries .  “The housing market is on the mend, but the housing bottom
will be a protracted one,” he said in a telephone interview.
“We will see more muted appreciation in the near term before we
get back to normal appreciation trends.”  In Phoenix, where investor demand is helping to boost
prices, home values rose the most of the 30 largest U.S.
metropolitan areas, with a 5.9 percent increase from the second
quarter, according to Zillow. They climbed 3.9 percent in Las
Vegas and 3.8 percent in Denver, Zillow said.  Atlanta had the biggest drop in values, falling 2.2 percent
from the previous three months, the data show.  New York ,
Philadelphia,  St. Louis  and  Cleveland  were among other large
metro areas where values declined.  Local Story  The recovery is uneven across the country because of local
variations in  foreclosure  conditions and employment, Humphries
said. Growing demand from investors and foreign buyers is
helping to push up values in pockets that were hard-hit by the
housing crash, he said.  “The local story for each metro is beginning to reassert
itself,” Humphries said.  Zillow showed a drop in values for 17 of the 41 states it
covers. Of the nine states considered U.S. presidential election
battlegrounds, New Hampshire,  North Carolina ,  Ohio , Virginia and
 Wisconsin  had quarter-over-quarter declines, indicating that
housing will be a key issue for many voters, the company said.  Values nationwide will increase 1.7 percent over the next
year, according to Zillow’s projection. Of the 253 markets
tracked by the forecast, 183 areas have hit bottom and another
41 will reach a floor in the next year, the company said.  Zillow measures the value of 100 million U.S. homes,
regardless of whether they sold during the quarter, and
calculates the median for its index. Other gauges, such as the
S&P/Case-Shiller index, track purchase prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prashant Gopal in New York at 
 pgopal2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  