-- Lufthansa Loses Court Challenge Over Delays Compensation
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-10-23T13:28:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/lufthansa-loses-eu-court-challenge-over-compensation-for-delays.html
Airlines including  Deutsche
Lufthansa AG (LHA)  and British Airways lost challenges at the European
Union’s top court over paying compensation to passengers delayed
by more than three hours.  “Where passengers reach their final destination three
hours or more after the scheduled arrival time, they may claim
fixed compensation from the airline, unless the delay is caused
by extraordinary circumstances,” the EU Court of Justice in
Luxembourg said in a ruling today that confirms an earlier,
precedent-setting decision by the court.  The ruling on two separate cases also involves  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,
 TUI AG (TUI1) ’s TUI Travel Plc unit and the International Air Transport
Association. It upholds a  2009 decision  that airlines have to
compensate passengers who reach their final destination that
much later because of a flight delay. Carriers are exempt from
compensation in cases of extraordinary circumstances, such as a
strike or bad weather conditions.  Lufthansa extended earlier declines to lose as much as 2.6
percent after the decision, and was trading 2.2 percent lower at
10.865 euros as of 3:07 p.m. in Frankfurt. Company spokesman
Boris Ogursky declined to comment until Lufthansa has seen the
full text of the ruling.  British Airways, a unit of  International Consolidated
Airlines Group SA (IAG) , said it was aware of the ruling and would
continue to comply with the regulations, according to an e-
mailed statement. IAG shares fell 2.3 percent to 156 pence at
2:02 p.m. in London.  Fair Treatment  Mike Ward, a spokesman for TUI Travel, said the company
would work for a revision of the underlying legislation so that
it strikes the right balance for passengers and airlines.  “We are committed to treating our customers fairly,” Ward
said in an e-mailed statement. TUI Travel shares fell 0.8
percent at 2:07 p.m. in London trading.  EasyJet spokesman Paul Moore said that while the company
was “disappointed at the outcome,” it welcomed the judgment
because it provided “much-needed clarity on this matter,”
according to an e-mail.  EasyJet lost as much as 1.4 percent after the ruling, and
was down 0.5 percent at 2:06 p.m. in  London . Ryanair Holdings
Plc fell 2.5 percent at 2:06 p.m. in Dublin trading.  Passenger Compensation  The 2009 ruling clarified that under  EU law  passengers
whose flights are delayed have the same rights to compensation
as passengers whose fights are canceled. The law doesn’t specify
this. Previous rulings have also made clear that airlines must
compensate passengers in cases of delays due to mechanical
problems.  London’s High Court and a German court referred separate
disputes pending before them to the EU court, seeking
clarification on exactly when compensation is due. The EU court
gives guidance for their judgments without deciding on the
specifics of the cases.  TUI Travel, EasyJet, British Airways and IATA are
challenging the Civil Aviation Authority in the U.K. after the
CAA confirmed it was bound by the EU court’s 2009 ruling and
couldn’t exempt them from the obligation of compensation in
cases of delays.  IATA declined to immediately comment on today’s ruling.  In the German case, a family is challenging Lufthansa after
a delay due to technical problems on their plane on a 2008 trip
brought them more than 24 hours later than expected to  Frankfurt 
from Lagos, Nigeria. The German tribunal had suspended the case
pending the EU court’s 2009 ruling and then decided to refer
further questions to the Luxembourg-based court.  The cases are: C-581/10, Emeka Nelson, Bill Chinazo Nelson,
Brian Cheimezie Nelson v Deutsche Lufthansa AG; C-629/10, TUI
Travel Plc, British Airways Plc, easyJet Airline Co. Ltd,
International Air Transport Association, The Queen v Civil
Aviation Authority.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net 
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  