-- UKFI Pushed Possible Sale of RBS’s Citizens Unit in U.S.
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-10-23T16:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/ukfi-pushed-possible-sale-of-rbs-s-citizens-unit-in-u-s-2-.html
U.K. Financial Investments Ltd., the
steward of the government’s 81 percent stake in  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , suggested the lender sell its U.S. unit to
increase shareholder returns.  The firm wrote to  RBS (RBS)  to raise the prospect of a sale of
Citizens Financial Group Inc., the consumer and commercial
lender acquired in 1988, UKFI Chief Executive Officer Jim O’Neil
told a panel of lawmakers today. The letter also detailed the
benefits of scaling back the Edinburgh-based lender’s investment
banking operations.  “Among the strategic issues we discuss with management are
the U.S. operations, are the investment bank,” O’Neil told the
Treasury committee. “We view it as part of our ongoing role to
continue to ask strategic questions in a market where everything
to do with banks is continuing to evolve and change.”  RBS will retain Rhode Island-based Citizens because it’s a
“core” part of the bank and will be more valuable in three
years’ time, CEO Stephen Hester told reporters in August.
Canada’s  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD)  held informal talks to buy the
unit, the  New York  Post reported on Aug. 3, without saying where
it got the information.  RBS fell 1.4 percent to 277.70 pence in London trading
today, just more than half what the government paid for its
stake when it bailed out the lender in 2008.  ‘Formal Proposal’  Chairman Philip Hampton signaled last week the Treasury may
try to cut its holding in RBS by 2015 after the bank left a
government insurance program that covered its most toxic assets.  UKFI hasn’t received any “formal proposal” from investors
for its stake in the lender, O’Neil said today.  “Hampton hopes to see a sell-down of UKFI’s stake commence
before the election,” Ian Gordon, a London-based analyst at
Investec Plc who rates the stock a sell, said in a note to
clients today. “It’s a worthy aspiration, but one unlikely to
be realized.”  Hester has cut assets by more than 800 billion pounds
($1.28 trillion), eliminated 36,000 jobs and scaled back RBS’s
securities and Irish units since he took over from Fred Goodwin
in 2008. RBS said in January it would cut about 3,500 jobs at
the investment-banking division, run by John Hourican, and sell
or close its unprofitable cash equities, mergers advisory and
equity capital markets divisions.  “We do have a positive view that the investment bank shape
and size ultimately should be probably smaller than it is
today,” O’Neil said.  UKFI approved Hester’s 963,000-pound bonus for 2011,
Chairman Robin Budenberg told the committee. Hester waived the
award after the opposition Labour Party said it would seek a
Parliamentary vote on the award.  “We were involved in a misjudgement about what that
reaction would be,” Budenberg said. “What happened then was
something that it was very difficult for anyone to control.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  