-- Ukraine Eyes EU ‘Reset’ After Elections to Forge Closer Ties
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a   a n d   A n d r e w   L a n g l e y
-- 2012-10-23T09:31:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/ukraine-targets-eu-reset-from-vote-in-bid-to-thaw-frozen-pact.html
Ukraine is striving to ensure this
week’s parliamentary elections meet international standards in a
bid to “reset” relations with the European Union and sign an
accord on closer ties, its first deputy prime minister said.  The former Soviet republic has invited about 5,000 election
observers and entrusted exit polls to independent companies,
Valeriy Khoroshkovskiy said Oct. 18 in an interview. After
opposition leader  Yulia Tymoshenko ’s imprisonment delayed
indefinitely an Association Agreement with the EU, the ballot
may provide the impetus to complete it, he said.  “We’re aware of the importance of holding honest,
democratic and fair elections,” Khoroshkovskiy said in his
office in the capital, Kiev. “I’m sure that if the elections
are recognized as free and democratic our partners will meet us
halfway. We expect to sign the agreement.”  Tymoshenko says her seven-year sentence for abuse of office
while premier was aimed at keeping her out of the Oct. 28 vote,
charges President  Viktor Yanukovych  denies. The EU deems the
case politically motivated and refuses to sign the Association
Agreement, which includes a free-trade pact. The 27-member bloc
and the U.S. have urged Ukraine to hold free elections.  For Ukraine, signing the accord would represent “a point
of no return, allowing us to move quickly, without looking back,
into European society,” Khoroshkovskiy said.  Poll Lead  Yanukovych’s Party of Regions was backed by 23.3 percent of
voters, while Tymoshenko’s Batkivshchyna was supported by 15.1
percent, a Sept. 18-Oct. 4  survey  by the Kiev-based Democratic
Initiative Fund showed.  World boxing champion Vitali Klitschko’s UDAR, which means
punch, had 16 percent, nationalist party Svoboda had 5.1
percent, and the communists, part of an existing coalition with
Yanukovych’s party, had 10.1 percent, according to the poll of
2,043 eligible voters, whose margin of error was 2.2 percent.  Ukraine’s economy, which grew 5.2 percent last year, is
slowing, with industrial output plunging 7 percent from a year
earlier in September on weaker global demand for metals.  “We’re disappointed by these numbers,” Khoroshkovskiy
said. “We feel the recession in our main trading partners,
including the EU.”  GDP Estimate  Gross domestic product may expand about 1 percent this
year, compared with a previous government forecast for 3.7
percent  growth , he said.  The hryvnia, which has lost 1.4 percent against the dollar
this year, rose today to 8.1578 as of 11:50 a.m. in Kiev, data
complied by Bloomberg show.  Government bonds  due 2017 advanced,
pushing yields down to 7.220 percent, the lowest level since
Oct. 17.  Ukraine’s rating in the  World Bank ’s annual Doing Business
survey improved 15 places, the Washington-based lender said
today on its website. Still, the country ranks 137 out of 185
nations, below the 73 average for eastern  Europe  and Central
Asia, according to the World Bank.  Ukraine is seeking to resume cooperation with the
 International Monetary Fund  and unlock and prolong a frozen
$15.4 billion lending program, which expires this year.  “Our expectation is that we’ll be able to agree on an
extension of the current program through 2013,” Khoroshkovskiy
said. Doing so is preferable to a new loan “as a new program
would have new requirements, which would be harder to meet.”  Heating Tariffs  The existing program was halted last March after the
government refused to raise household utility tariffs, a step
the IMF had sought to lower subsidies to state energy company
NAK Naftogaz Ukrainy.  “Household heating tariffs are the only problem,”
Khoroshkovskiy said. The government plans to keep tariffs
unchanged this winter before “completing a plan that will
improve the utility-sector situation.”  Excluding Naftogaz, next year’s budget deficit won’t exceed
1.7 percent, according to Khoroshkovskiy, who said a valuation
of the company’s pipelines will be completed by Dec. 1 with a
view to reorganizing it.  “After we have the price, we’ll discuss the future of
pipeline transport,” he said. “We will see whether to form a
consortium. It may be an IPO or conversion into a company with
clear shareholders.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Langley in London at 
 alangley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  