-- Mulberry Stock Drops After Pretax Profit Misses Estimates
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-10-23T16:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/mulberry-stock-drops-after-pretax-profit-misses-estimates.html
Mulberry Group Plc, (MUL)  a British
luxury-handbag maker, fell the most in 14 years in  London 
trading after the company said profit will unexpectedly fall
because of declining shipments to wholesale customers.  The shares slid 24 percent to 1,006 pence, the steepest
drop since March 3, 1998, cutting the company’s market value to
600 million pounds ($956 million).  The unscheduled announcement that profit is likely to drop
compares with  analyst estimates  for pretax profit to rise to
41.8 million pounds in the fiscal year through March from 36
million pounds in the previous 12 months.  Wholesale shipments in the six months ended Sept. 30 fell 4
percent to 30 million pounds, as a result of which the maker of
1,100-pound metallic snake-print  Del Ray  handbags said it
expects full-year revenue growth to miss estimates. Among the
reasons for the decline were a strategic decision to trim
international wholesale accounts and a tougher climate in Asia
that led to “cautious ordering,” Mulberry said.  The drop in wholesale shipments “is where the problems
lie,”  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London,
said in a note. “Mulberry has decided to cut accounts deemed to
be inappropriate and this has coincided with a slowdown in
international markets,” said the analyst who kept his buy
recommendation on the stock.  Luxury Slowdown  Luxury-goods makers have reported divergent sales patterns
since the end of August as an imminent government-leadership
change in  China  and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis take their
toll on demand.  Burberry Group Plc (BRBY)  said last month that pretax
profit for the year ending March would be at the lower end of a
range of estimates, citing slowing same-store sales.  Worldwide luxury sales will grow 5 percent in 2012, less
than half last year’s pace, led by a slowdown in  Europe , and
expand at a similar speed through 2015, according to Bain & Co.  Mulberry said revenue rose 6 percent to 76.5 million pounds
in the six months through September, slowing from a gain of 25
percent in the second half of the previous financial year.
Retail revenue of 46.5 million pounds rose 13 percent in total
and 7 percent on a like-for-like basis, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Jarvis in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net  