-- United Tech Profit Tops Estimates After Goodrich Deal
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2012-10-23T12:07:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/united-tech-profit-tops-estimates-as-goodrich-costs-fall.html
United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  posted
higher third-quarter profit than analysts estimated after
boosting aerospace sales by purchasing Goodrich Corp. and a
controlling stake in the International Aero Engines venture.  Adjusted profit was $1.37 a share,  compared  with the $1.19
average of 20 estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Net income 
climbed 6.9 percent to $1.42 billion, or $1.56 a share, from 
$1.32 billion, or $1.47, a year earlier, the company said 
today in a statement.  Along with the Goodrich deal, United Technologies Chief
Executive Officer  Louis Chenevert  has divested units making
rocket engines, wind turbines and industrial pumps to refine the
Hartford, Connecticut-based company’s focus. Total sales climbed
5.7 percent to $15 billion, with acquisitions outweighing slower
organic revenue growth and unfavorable currency exchange rates.  “We’re seeing some very favorable momentum created by
these transactions,” Chenevert said in a telephone interview
today after the results were announced. “The good news is our
portfolio transformation is now behind us, and the deal costs
keep getting better and the opportunities to integrate and the
synergies keep getting better.”  Goodrich Gain  The Goodrich acquisition will boost United Technologies’
2013 profit more than the company had previously said, Chief
Financial Officer Greg Hayes said in a telephone interview.
Earnings per share will climb by 60 cents next year because of
the deal, compared with a previous forecast of 50 cents, Hayes
said.  Costs related to the Goodrich acquisition will be only 10
cents a share this year, lower than the 20 cents a share
estimated previously, United Technologies said. Restructuring
costs companywide will be $600 million, up from a previous
projection of $500 million.  United Technologies reiterated its 2012 earnings  forecast 
of $5.25 to $5.35 a share while saying sales would be about $58
billion, at the low end of the range it predicted earlier this
year.  Profit at UTC Aerospace, the unit that includes Goodrich,
grew more than 30 percent to $271 million.  After accounting for costs associated with the $16.5
billion acquisition, Goodrich had no effect on earnings per
share this quarter, the company said. That’s an improvement from
the net cost projected by some analysts.  Joseph Nadol, an  analyst  at JPMorgan Chase & Co., who has
an overweight rating on United Technologies’ stock, predicted
yesterday that costs related to the acquisition would reduce
quarterly earnings by 11 cents a share.  United Technologies’ Pratt & Whitney unit took control of
IAE, a joint venture with MTU Aero Engines AG and Japanese Aero
Engines Corp. after buying  Rolls-Royce Holdings Plc (RR/) ’s stake for
$1.5 billion in June. The unit contributed 3 cents to the
company’s per-share earnings in the quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in New York at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net . 