-- United Therapeutics’ Lung Drug Rejected by U.S. FDA
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-10-23T21:25:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/united-therapeutics-lung-drug-rejected-by-u-s-fda.html
United Therapeutics Corp. (UTHR) , a maker
of vascular-disease medicines, failed to win U.S. approval for
an oral version of Remodulin to treat a lung disorder.  The shares fell as much as 16 percent in extended trading
after the  Food and Drug Administration  rejected the drug,
questioning whether it slowed the progress of the disease,
pulmonary arterial hypertension, in three final-phase studies,
the  Silver Spring , Maryland-based company said today in a
statement. The FDA also questioned the lack of a statistically
significant effect on a six-minute walk distance in two studies.  United Therapeutics’ therapy is an oral version of
treprostinil, which is already approved to treat the life-
threatening lung disorder by injected, intravenous and inhaled
administration. While the company said the FDA is unsure if an
additional clinical trial would alter the agency’s impressions
of the oral version, regulators recommended the company consider
a fixed-dose design and more frequent dosing, if it decided to
conduct another study, United Therapeutics said.  “We will continue using our best efforts to gain approval
of oral treprostinil, and we will focus on doing so within the
next four years,” Martine Rothblatt, chairman and chief
executive officer of United Therapeutics, said. “We will
convene with our experts over the next several weeks to decide
which of several paths forward to pursue.”  United Therapeutics fell 9.9 percent to $48.02 at 5:12 p.m.
 New York  time after declining as low as $45. The company dropped
2.2 percent to close at $53.28.  The FDA approved injectable Remodulin in 2002, according to
the agency’s website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  