-- UPS Rises After Asia Exports Post Surprise Increase
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   V i c t o r i a   S t i l w e l l
-- 2012-10-23T22:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/ups-pares-top-end-of-2012-forecast-as-profit-meets-views.html
United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  rose the
most since March after posting third-quarter earnings that
matched analysts’ estimates, buoyed by higher export shipments
in  Asia  and a gain in U.S. deliveries.  Full-year profit will be $4.55 to $4.65 a share, UPS said,
narrowing an earlier range of $4.50 to $4.70. That compares with
a $4.55 average estimate among  analysts  in a Bloomberg survey.
Quarterly earnings excluding some costs were $1.06 a share.  The world’s largest package delivery company is considered
an economic bellwether because it moves goods as varied as
electronics and financial papers. International exports, defined
as goods crossing a border, rose 1.2 percent as Asia volumes
climbed “for the first time in several quarters,” UPS said.  “The Asia Pacific region is doing better than people think
it is,” said  David Campbell , an analyst at Thompson Davis & Co.
in Richmond,  Virginia , who recommends buying the shares.  UPS gained  3 percent to $73.73 at the close in New York,
for the biggest advance since March 19. That made the shares a
bright spot in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index as most stocks in
the benchmark gauge retreated.  Net income  fell 56 percent to $469 million, or 48 cents a
share, from $1.07 billion, or $1.09, a year earlier. UPS said
the quarter included a $559 million after-tax, non-cash charge
to restructure some pension liabilities. Sales slid 0.7 percent
to $13.1 billion, the first quarterly drop since the final three
months of 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  CFO’s View  Asia exports rose about 2 percent, and  Europe ’s increased 1
percent, helped by network changes that allow for later pickup
times and new service to certain cities, Chief Financial Officer
Kurt Kuehn said in a telephone interview.  “Demand was a little better than it has been, and we were
pleased to see the rebound,” Kuehn said.  U.S. domestic shipments rose 3.7 percent, UPS said, a total
that beat Campbell’s estimate for a 1 percent gain. He projects
a full-year profit of $4.62 a share. That’s 2 cents more than
the midpoint of UPS’s new range.  The stock’s jump “largely reflects the company’s guidance,
which was a little more positive than the Street was expecting,
and also hopes that we’re going to see a nice holiday shipping
season,” said James Corridore, an S&P Capital IQ equity analyst
in New York.  Holiday Shipping  Package shipments during the holiday peak from Thanksgiving
through Christmas will total about 500 million, according to
UPS. There is still “some uncertainty around the magnitude of
the holiday shipping season,” Kuehn said in a statement.  FedEx Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline,
said yesterday that it expects to handle 280 million packages in
the same period, 13 percent more than a year earlier. The
Memphis, Tennessee-based company said it expects to hire 20,000
seasonal workers, about the same as in 2011. UPS hasn’t given a
projection for its holiday workforce.  Lower industry expectations are helping drive today’s UPS
rally, said  Kevin Sterling , a BB&T Capital Markets analyst in
Richmond, Virginia.  “The feeling out there was that they were going to miss
expectations, and so a lot of bad news had already been priced
into the stock,” he said. UPS’s more favorable tone on
international business compared with previous quarters also came
as a surprise, he said.  ‘Slight Improvement’  “Not that they’re jumping up and down doing back flips,
but you’re at least seeing a slight improvement,” he said.
“According to them, the world’s not coming to an end.”  UPS said its volume growth rate remained positive in Europe
even as business slowed.  “The economy there has contracted, but the small-package
market has not,” Chief Executive Officer Scott Davis said on a
conference call with analysts and investors.  UPS is still awaiting clearance from European Union
regulators to proceed with the 5.16 billion-euro ($6.7 billion)
acquisition of  TNT Express NV (TNTE)  announced in March. It received a
so-called statement of objections last week and hasn’t specified
what steps are needed to resolve the complaint.  UPS has said the statement regarding the purchase of
Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based TNT was a “normal step” in the
review of such transactions, and doesn’t prejudice the final
decision.  One business that must be divested is TNT’s airline,
because EU rules bar air-carrier ownership by foreign companies.
Kuehn declined to comment in the interview on whether a buyer is
lined up yet. He said UPS and TNT are “working very closely and
in-depth” with European officials and will respond within a few
weeks, he said.  TNT is in negotiations with at least two bidders to sell
the unit, the Wall Street Journal reported, citing unidentified
people briefed on the discussions. The newspaper said the talks
were at an advanced stage.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Victoria Stilwell in  New York  at 
 vstilwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  