-- Van Rompuy Vows Push for Women in EU Jobs Amid ECB Row
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-10-23T11:31:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/van-rompuy-vows-push-for-women-in-eu-jobs-amid-ecb-row.html
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  vowed to push for more women in top EU finance jobs while
urging lawmakers to endorse the appointment of Yves Mersch to
the European Central Bank’s Executive Board.  The European Parliament, in a vote due on Oct. 25, is
threatening to oppose Mersch’s assignment because of the absence
of women in the ECB’s governing posts. The Parliament’s economic
and monetary affairs committee yesterday issued a non-binding
verdict against 63-year-old Mersch, who is Luxembourg’s central
bank chief.  EU government leaders should “identify and propose female
candidates for vacant posts at European level, in particular in
the economic and financial sector where the under-representation
of women is blatant,” Van Rompuy told the 27-nation Parliament
today in Strasbourg, France. “We need to be active in
encouraging this process.”  This marks a political attempt to redress a gender
imbalance in the medium term while bolstering the immediate
needs of the ECB as it battles to stem  Europe ’s three-year-old
sovereign-debt crisis. The workload of the ECB has multiplied as
it embarks on unprecedented unconventional monetary-policy
measures and takes on additional supervisory roles.  Negative Opinion  All 17 central bank governors in the euro area are men and,
within the Frankfurt-based ECB itself, few of its managers are
women. Two women, Sirkka Haemaelaeinen of  Finland  and Gertrude Tumpel-Gugerell of  Austria , previously sat on the ECB’s six-
member Executive Board. If the five men currently there serve
their full terms, another vacancy won’t emerge until June 2018,
when Vice President  Vitor Constancio  of  Portugal  retires.  “We are objecting to the EU’s most powerful institution
being run by only men for the next six years,”  Sharon Bowles ,
chairwoman of the EU Parliament’s economic and monetary affairs
committee, said yesterday after its negative opinion on Mersch.
The committee voted 20 to 13 against him.  The ECB seat has been vacant since Jose Manuel Gonzalez- Paramo of  Spain  ended his eight-year term on May 31. Euro-area
finance ministers then wrangled over his replacement until July.
As Luxembourg’s representative on the ECB’s wider policy-setting
Governing Council, Mersch is the euro area’s longest serving
central bank chief and has earned a reputation as an inflation
hawk.  ‘Failed Promises’  Bowles yesterday praised Mersch’s qualifications and held
out the possibility that she would urge the full 754-seat
Parliament to ignore her committee’s recommendation and endorse
his candidacy should  Van Rompuy  pledge actions to promote women
in top European  finance jobs . Today, after Van Rompuy’s address,
she signaled continued dissatisfaction.  “What we heard today is no different to all the promises
on equality that have universally failed,” said Bowles, a U.K.
member of the Parliament pro-business Liberals, the assembly’s
third-biggest faction. “We need more than just talk and
promises which fall short.”  Van Rompuy told the assembly that he made a “strong
appeal” on the matter to all EU heads of government or state at
a meeting last week in Brussels and that Mersch’s appointment
needed speedy approval.  “I hope that with such renewed commitment to gender
balance, Parliament will base its final decision on the current
candidate for the ECB Executive Board on the sole criteria of
professional qualification and experience,” he said. “It is
urgent to fill that vacancy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg,  France , at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  