-- VMware Profit Beats Estimates on Corporate Contracts
-- B y   R y a n   F a u g h n d e r
-- 2012-10-23T21:40:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/vmware-profit-beats-estimates-on-corporate-contracts.html
VMware Inc. (VMW) , the biggest maker of
software that enables computers to run multiple operating
systems, reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates as it
gained corporate customers.  Third-quarter profit excluding some costs was 70 cents a
share,  Palo Alto , California-based VMware said in a statement.
That surpassed the average estimate of 63 cents a share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 20 percent
to $1.13 billion, matching analysts’ projections.  Already the biggest provider of virtualization software,
VMware is benefiting as customers use its products to cut costs
by making their servers more efficient and by setting up data
centers for cloud computing.  “Everyone’s been having a difficult earnings season, and
these guys are bucking the trend,” said  Brian Marshall , an
analyst at ISI Group. “It goes to show that VMware is basically
the operating system of the cloud.”  The company also appointed Jonathan Chadwick as chief
financial officer, effective Nov. 5. Chadwick, 46, was
previously at  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  as a vice president and CFO of
Skype.  VMware advanced in extended trading. VMware rose less than
1 percent to $83.72 at the close in New York. The stock is
little changed this year.  Cloud Preparations  Sales in the fourth quarter will be $1.26 billion to $1.29
billion, the company forecast in its statement today. That
compares with the $1.28 billion average estimate of analysts.  VMware is benefiting as customers use its virtualization
software to boost efficiency and prepare data centers for cloud
computing over the Internet, Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho
Securities USA Inc., wrote in a note.  “Management’s new guidance is largely in-line with current
forecasts for the December quarter,” Lamba wrote. “We believe
the company’s business is likely being impacted by the global
macro-environment, but it continues to sign deals due to strong
momentum in the virtualization space.”  Third-quarter net income fell 12 percent to $156.8 million,
or 36 cents a share, from $177.5 million, or 41 cents, a year
earlier.  The company is majority-owned by  EMC Corp. (EMC) , which will
report earnings tomorrow before the U.S. markets open.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Faughnder in  New York  at 
 rfaughnder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  