-- Volcker Profit Shave, ABS-Basel Rules, Finra: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-10-23T12:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/volcker-profit-shave-abs-basel-rules-finra-ban-compliance.html
The Volcker rule could cut profit at
the biggest U.S. banks twice as much as earlier estimates if
regulators take a strict stance on limiting proprietary trading,
 Standard & Poor’s  said.  S&P said yesterday in a statement announcing a new report
on the topic that it currently estimates the impact of the
Volcker rule could reduce combined pretax earnings “for the
eight largest U.S. banks by up to $10 billion annually, up from
our initial $4 billion estimate two years ago.”  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Morgan Stanley, which were the
two biggest U.S. securities firms before converting to banks in
2008, stand to lose the most because they get a larger
percentage of their revenue from trading than the other lenders,
S&P said in the report. Regulators are unlikely to draft a final
version of the rule until the end of 2012, S&P said.  Less strict rules would have “a limited impact on banks’
earnings and business positions” would therefore it’s unlikely
S&P would take ratings actions as a result, the company said in
the statement. Stricter rules could lead the ratings company
“to take negative ratings actions on certain banks.”  In addition to Goldman Sachs and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , S&P
included  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,  U.S. Bancorp (USB) , and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  in its analysis.  While the Volcker rule will also affect the U.S. operations
of non-U.S. companies such as  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and Zurich-based
 UBS AG (UBSN) , S&P said those lenders’ profits weren’t included in the
analysis.  Compliance Policy  Asset-Backed Securities May Face Tougher Basel Bank Rules  Banks trading asset-backed securities may face tougher
capital requirements and stricter oversight from global
supervisors amid concerns that regulation is failing to curb
excessive risk-taking.  The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision is about to
embark on a “fundamental” review of how securitization is
regulated, Wayne Byres, the group’s secretary general, said in
an interview last week.  The boom in the U.S. and European markets for securitized
debt in the years leading up to 2008 has been identified by
regulators as one of the main reasons for the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. and the ensuing financial crisis, as
lenders struggled with a plunge in the debt’s market value.  Securitization has also been the subject of lawsuits, amid
accusations that some instruments were flawed or even designed
to incur losses.  Some steps taken by regulators on securitized debt don’t
take into account recent credit quality and price performance
“of European asset-backed securities since the onset of the
financial crisis,” Richard Hopkin, a managing director at the
Association for Financial Markets in Europe, said in an e-mail.  AFME represents lenders and brokers including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc.,  Bank of America Corp. , Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG.  The push on securitization adds to the Basel group’s list
of priorities as it seeks to set liquidity rules for lenders.
The committee plans to complete a review of the so-called
liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, at its next meeting in
December, Byres said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  David Lerner Banned by Finra for Misleading on Apple REITs  David Lerner was banned from the securities industry for a
year and his firm ordered to pay $12 million for misleading
investors into buying real estate investment trusts, regulators
said.  Lerner, whose David Lerner Associates Inc. has underwritten
about $7 billion of its Apple REITs, was also fined $250,000,
the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority said yesterday in a
 statement . The Syosset, New York-based brokerage, known for its
founder’s “Take a tip from Poppy” advertising slogan,
persuaded elderly customers to invest by exaggerating the
performance of older Apple REITs, Wall Street’s self-funded
regulator said.  Lerner personally misled over 1,000 customers at four or
more seminars, calling the Apple REITs “a fabulous cash cow”
and a “gold mine,” Finra said. He cited the success of
previous investment pools without telling prospective investors
that those REITs were partially funding their payouts by
borrowing money, the regulator said.  Lerner agreed to repay the $12 million to investors without
admitting or denying Finra’s claims. The firm “decided it is
time to move the company past these distractions and settle with
the regulators,” said Joseph Pickard, its general counsel. His
statement was e-mailed by David Chauvin, an outside spokesman at
Zimmerman/Edselson Inc.  Finra also fined David Lerner Associates $2.3 million for
overcharging on municipal bonds and mortgage investments.  For more, click here.  AIG to Pay at Least $25 Million to Settle California Review  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , the insurer that counts
the U.S. as its largest shareholder, agreed to pay $25 million
to $30 million to settle a California review into whether the
company held funds that should go to beneficiaries.  The deal requires the New York-based insurer to check the
Social Security Administration’s Death Master File to determine
if policyholders have died, according to a statement yesterday
from California Controller John Chiang and Insurance
Commissioner  Dave Jones .  California City Facing SEC Probe Drained Sewer and Road Funds  San Bernardino, the bankrupt California city facing an
inquiry by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, masked
its growing deficits by using funds meant for sewers, roads and
construction to cover current expenses, according to city
records.  In the year ended June 30, San Bernardino added $33 million
to its $177.7 million general fund from a payroll trust fund and
accounts designated for sewer-line maintenance, storm-drain
constriction and other purposes, exhausting most of the special
funds, according to a city budget document.  Now, as the city of 209,000 about 60 miles (100 kilometers)
east of Los Angeles faces the scrutiny of a bankruptcy judge and
the SEC, it’s $1 million in default on pension bonds issued in
2005 and late on $5.3 million owed to the California Public
Employees’ Retirement System, of which $1.2 million is
delinquent. The city’s broke because its leaders resorted to
accounting tricks, rather than reduce spending as the recession
drove down property taxes and sales levies, City Treasurer David
Kennedy said.  The SEC’s “informal inquiry” was revealed in an Oct. 11
letter from Robert H. Conrrad, a senior enforcement lawyer in
Los Angeles, to City Attorney James Penman. The letter asked the
city to preserve documents and data on bonds, underwriters,
audits and financial information presented to elected officials.  Conrrad didn’t respond to a voice-mail message requesting
details of the investigation. Judith Burns, a commission
spokeswoman in Washington, said policy prevented her from
confirming the existence of a probe.  For more, click here.  Carbon Plan Hurts EU Credibility as Regulator, Traders Say  A plan by the European Commission to prevent emitters from
using some Emission Reduction Units issued after the end of this
year damages the regulator’s credibility, said a lobby group
representing traders.  The proposal does not follow due process and the commission
should have proposed a change to the emissions trading system
law instead of the carbon registry regulation, Jeff Swartz,
Geneva-based international policy director at the  International
Emissions Trading Association , said yesterday.  The commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, proposed draft
rules for the use of United Nations-sponsored ERU offsets as of
2013 in a modified draft amendment to the bloc’s carbon registry
regulation at a meeting of officials from national governments
on Oct. 17, according to two people with knowledge of the
matter, who declined to be identified because the gathering was
private. The EU doesn’t comment on draft regulations.  ERUs are generated under the rules of the Joint
Implementation mechanism of the  Kyoto Protocol , known as JI.  Traders were assuming they could use ERUs for EU compliance
at least for the 2012 year, which has a compliance window
through  April (APR)  2013, Swartz said. Investors have entered into
contracts that extend many months into the future.  IETA, whose  members  include  RWE AG (RWE) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and Goldman Sachs Group Inc., says any policy changes should
include a “predictable time line,” he said.  Consumer Bureau Taking Complaints on Credit-Reporting Agencies  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the new federal
agency charged with protecting consumers, is taking complaints
on credit-reporting agencies, according to a statement on its
website.  Consumers must first file the dispute with their respective
consumer-reporting agencies before seeking help, the Bureau said
in the statement.  The reporting agencies are expected to respond to bureau
inquiries about the complaints within 15 days.  UKFI Suggested Possible Sale of RBS’s Citizens Unit in U.S.  U.K. Financial Investments Ltd., which manages the
government’s 81 percent stake in  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc , suggested a possible sale of the lender’s U.S. operations
to increase shareholder returns.  The firm wrote to RBS to raise the prospect of a sale of
Citizens Financial Group Inc., the consumer and commercial
lender acquired in 1988, UKFI Chief Executive Officer  Jim O’Neil 
told a panel of lawmakers today. The letter also detailed the
benefits of scaling back the Edinburgh-based lender’s investment
banking operations.  RBS said in January it would cut about 3,500 jobs at the
investment-banking division.  U.K. Insurers Seen Taking Risks in Face of Low Rates, FT Reports  Low U.K.  interest rates  make it difficult for insurers to
obtain investment returns high enough to meet commitments to
policyholders in the nation, according to Julian Adams, the
Financial Services Authority executive in charge of supervising
the insurance business, the Financial Times reports.  Adams says insurers, which typically hold two thirds of
assets in fixed-income securities, may turn to alternative
investments in face of weak returns, and that carries risks  Insurers plan to increase holdings of such asset classes as
private equity, property and emerging-market debt, according to
a study by Goldman Sachs Asset Management this year.  Andrew Bailey , head of FSA’s prudential business unit, says
many “with-profits” contracts, with nominal return commitments
of 7 percent or 8 percent, were written in 1980s, which spells
danger in an environment of very low interest rates over a long
period.  Courts  Swaps Exchanges Couldn’t Rival NYSE-Deutsche Boerse, EU Ruled  Derivatives exchanges would have been unable to quell the
combined market power of  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX) ,
European Union regulators said in disclosing their reasons for
blocking the duo’s plans to join forces to create a global
leader.  Regulators rejected the companies’ arguments that
derivatives traded over the counter competed with those traded
on exchanges, according to the 447-page  filing  made public last
week. The two products are separate “rather than
substitutable” for exchange customers, according to the
document, which may set the tone for how the EU’s antitrust
agency will view future exchange deals.  Since the deal was blocked in February, at least five new
entrants have announced plans to enter the European derivatives
market. Both CME Group Inc., owner of the world’s biggest
futures exchange, and Nasdaq OMX plan derivatives markets in
London, setting up in competition with Eurex and Liffe, the
largest venues. EU lawmakers have also agreed on regulations
that will stir competition in derivatives and clearing.  The appeal by Frankfurt-based Deutsche Boerse attacks
regulators’ analysis of competition among trading platforms,
saying it was “not based on cogent and consistent evidence”
and that they failed to properly analyze the role of exchange
customers in over-the-counter trading, according to  court
documents  published in June. NYSE isn’t a party to the appeal
and said in March that it was focused on its strategy as a
standalone company.  Caroline Nico, a spokeswoman for NYSE Euronext, declined to
comment on last week’s EU disclosure.  SEC Sued Over ‘Conflict Minerals’ Rule by Business Groups  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce and National Association of
Manufacturers asked a federal court to modify or scrap U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission rules governing so-called
conflict minerals because compliance would be burdensome and
ineffective.  The SEC adopted a regulation in August that requires
companies using gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum in their
products to make “reasonable” efforts to determine if those
materials came from the Democratic Republic of Congo or an
adjoining country. Trade in those minerals -- used in electronic
devices -- is helping to finance conflict and contributing to a
humanitarian crisis in the central African nation,  according to 
the SEC.  The advocacy groups ask that the rules be modified or set
aside, according to a joint filing with the U.S. Court of
Appeals in Washington on Oct. 19. The first disclosure reports
are due by May 31, 2014, the agency said.  The case is National Association of Manufacturers v. U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, 12-1422, U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit (Washington).  Interviews  Buchan Says PAAMCO Doesn’t Want ‘Hedge Fund Hipsters’  Jane Buchan, co-founder and chief executive officer of
Pacific Alternative Asset Management Co., talked about
investment in hedge funds, financial regulation and the
potential impact of the U.S. presidential election on the stock
market.  She spoke with Scarlet Fu and  Stephanie Ruhle  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  EU Parliament Panel Opposes Mersch Move to ECB Executive Board  A European Parliament committee opposed the appointment of
Luxembourg’s Yves Mersch to the European Central Bank’s
Executive Board because of unhappiness about a lack of female
candidates for the job.  The non-binding opinion by the European Union assembly’s
economic and monetary affairs committee yesterday in Strasbourg,
France, is a political appeal to euro-area government leaders to
put forward women for top ECB posts. The recommendation on
Mersch, Luxembourg’s central bank governor, now goes to the full
EU Parliament for a vote on Oct. 25.  Two women, Sirkka Haemaelaeinen of Finland and Gertrude
Tumpel-Gugerell of Austria, previously sat on the ECB’s six-
member Executive Board. If the five men currently there serve
their full terms, another position won’t become available until
June 2018 when Vice President  Vitor Constancio  retires.  The ECB seat has been vacant since Jose Manuel Gonzalez-
Paramo of Spain ended his eight-year term on May 31. A
controversy has arisen over demands to have a woman fill the
position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 