-- Water Stress Hurting More Than 50% of Global Companies, CDP Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n
-- 2012-10-23T10:21:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/water-stress-hurting-more-than-50-of-global-companies-cdp-says.html
Water stress affects more than half
of the world’s largest listed companies, according to the Carbon
Disclosure Project, which urged businesses to set targets and
increase board oversight to manage a shrinking resource.  In a 185-company survey, 53 percent suffered from water
scarcity, flooding, rising compliance costs, regulatory
uncertainty or poor water quality in the past five years, up
from 38 percent last year, the CDP said today in a report.  The survey coincides with the start of a two-day Bloomberg
New Energy Finance water forum in San Diego, aimed at policy
makers and energy-industry executives as water’s role in
resources planning expands. Companies face pressure to devise
water-management strategies as global usage climbs and droughts
from  Russia  to the U.S. strain supply of a finite resource.  Only 44 percent of the energy companies contacted responded
to the CDP survey, making the industry the least transparent for
a second year, according to the report. Health care retained its
lead as the most responsive, with a 77 percent response rate.  The report is based on information submitted to the CDP by
185 of the Global 500, the largest companies by market value in
the FTSE Global Equity Index Series.   Of the 185 respondents, 68 percent said they viewed water
as a “substantial risk” to their business, compared with 59
percent a year earlier. Companies with board-level oversight of
water policies increased by 1 percentage point to 58 percent.  “While it is encouraging that their awareness of the
commercial risks and opportunities associated with water is
improving, progress in responding to them is varied and in many
cases insufficient,” CDP Chief Executive Officer Paul Simpson
wrote in the report. “We need to see greater corporate
accountability through more transparency, concrete targets and
goals, and board level oversight of water-related issues.”  The CDP is a London-based, nonprofit organization that
collects and publishes information on carbon emissions and water
use from some of the world’s largest companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brown in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  