-- Wells Fargo Boosts Stock Buyback Program by $6.9 Billion
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-10-23T20:33:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/wells-fargo-boosts-stock-buyback-program-by-6-9-billion-1-.html
Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S.
home lender, increased its stock-buyback program by 200 million
shares, valued at about $6.9 billion based on yesterday’s
closing price.  The authorization was disclosed in a statement today by the
San Francisco-based bank, which has about 5.3 billion  shares
outstanding . Wells Fargo fell as much as 2.5 percent today and
then erased some of the loss after the announcement, ending at
$33.87 at the close of regular trading in New York.  Fifteen straight quarters of profit helped make Wells Fargo
the most valuable U.S. bank by market capitalization and is
allowing Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf , 59, to boost
shareholder payouts this year as firms including Citigroup Inc.
and Bank of America Corp. refrain from increases. Wells Fargo’s
results have been buoyed by higher fees in U.S. mortgages, where
the bank accounted for 1 in 3 home loans at midyear.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest U.S. bank by assets, has
said it hopes to resume stock repurchases in the first quarter.
It suspended buybacks in May after disclosing mounting losses on
 credit derivatives  that have cost the bank $6.25 billion through
this year’s first nine months. The New York-based bank’s 30-cent
quarterly dividend wasn’t affected.  Wells Fargo also declared its regular 22-cent quarterly
dividend, unchanged from the previous period. Investors who own
stock on Nov. 9 will be paid on Dec. 1.  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) ,
controlled by billionaire  Warren Buffett , is the bank’s biggest
shareholder.  Distributing Capital  The largest U.S. banks must receive approval from the
 Federal Reserve  each year to distribute capital to shareholders
through buybacks and dividends. The Fed didn’t object to Wells
Fargo’s 2012 capital plan, which included a dividend increase
and “a higher level of common-share repurchase activity in 2012
versus 2011,” the bank said in a March 13 statement. The
statement didn’t specify how many shares may be repurchased.  Wells Fargo repurchased $2.6 billion of common shares
through the first nine months of the year, according to a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in San Francisco at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  