-- Wisconsin Public Worker Union Law Remains Blocked During Appeal
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r i e   R o h d e
-- 2012-10-23T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/wisconsin-judge-won-t-stay-ruling-on-public-worker-union-law-1-.html
Wisconsin  Attorney General J.B. Van Hollen failed to persuade a judge to delay enforcement of his
ruling that invalidated parts of Governor  Scott Walker ’s
legislation curbing public worker collective bargaining rights.  State court Judge Juan Colas in Madison, who on Sept. 14
ruled that portions of the 2011 law unduly burdened municipal
workers’ constitutional rights to free speech and free
association, yesterday rejected Van Hollen’s request for an
order staying the effect of that ruling while the state pursues
an appeal.  “Defendants have failed to show that they will suffer
irreparable harm if the stay is not granted,” Colas said in a
nine-page written ruling.  “We’ll likely be asking the Court of Appeals for a stay
soon,” Dana Brueck, a  Van Hollen  spokeswoman, said in an e-
mail.  The legislation championed by Walker, the first-term
Republican governor, required annual recertification votes for
union representation and made the payment of union dues
voluntary. Some groups of public safety officers were exempt
from its provisions.  Seeking to preserve the status quo while pursuing his
appeal, Van Hollen, also a Republican, argued that continuation
of the law, which had been in effect for more than a year before
Colas’s ruling, was the only way to afford certainty to those
governmental units affected by the decision.  ‘Rug Pulled’  “A stay would ensure that municipalities and school
districts can determine employee compensation, design workplace
policies and plan their budgets without having the rug pulled
out from under them if the court’s decision is reversed,” the
attorney general argued in Sept. 18 court filing.  The state has a high burden to meet on appeal, said Lester
Pines, a lawyer for plaintiffs in the case.  “They will have to show an ’erroneous exercise of
discretion’ on the part of Judge Colas,” Pines said in an
interview. “His decision was a thoughtful, rational review of
the issues and the application of the correct law.”  Colas was the second judge to block parts of the
legislation.  U.S. District Judge William Conley in Madison, who was
appointed by President  Barack Obama , invalidated parts of the
law in a March 30 ruling. The state has appealed that decision
as well.  The state case is Madison Teachers Inc. v. Walker, 11-
cv-3774,  Dane County , Wisconsin, Circuit Court, Branch 10
(Madison). The federal case is Wisconsin Education Association
v. Walker 12-2011,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Seventh Circuit
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  