-- Weak Tea at Unilever Persists Amid Innovation at Rivals
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-10-24T09:34:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/with-no-arnold-palmer-unilever-bogeys-in-tea.html
Unilever (UNA)  Chief Executive Officer
Paul Polman has revived ice cream, skin care, and other parts of
his company’s sprawling consumer-product business since taking
the helm in 2009, yet one category remains a sore spot. Call it
the tempest in tea.  Unilever’s tea business -- which includes Lipton, the
world’s second-biggest beverage brand behind Coca-Cola -- has
suffered from a lack of attention, investment and innovation
compared with categories like deodorants and shampoos. The
volume of sales for the business unit that includes tea has
declined in three of the past four quarters.  Despite  ads  featuring hip-hop artist Eminem, Lipton has
surrendered its top spot in the U.S. ready-to-drink tea market,
where Unilever operates a joint venture with  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  In the
U.K., Unilever’s market-leading PG brand has suffered as Britons
ditch black tea for coffeehouse lattes or green and herbal teas.  “Lipton’s almost become like a generic,” said  David
Turner , an analyst at Mintel. “Other brands have more energy
and motivation, and a better story to tell.”  Polman has  told  analysts this year that “we need to do
better” and he’s “disappointed” with the tea business, which
has annual revenue of $2.7 billion, according to Sanford C.
Bernstein research. He put ice-cream chief Kevin Havelock in
charge of tea as well, and has introduced new products in the
U.S., Britain and  Russia . Some of the new teas have hit the mark
while others have underperformed, according to Mintel.  Revenue Growth  A spokeswoman for Unilever, based in  London  and Rotterdam,
declined to comment about efforts to bolster tea sales, citing a
quiet period in advance of its Oct. 25 third-quarter results.
The world’s second-largest maker of consumer products may  report 
a 5.3 percent increase in underlying revenue in the quarter, a
slowdown from the previous two quarters, according to the median
estimate of 12  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg.  Unilever fell 0.1 percent to 27.52 euros at 11:08 a.m. in
Amsterdam trading today. The stock has  risen  3.5 percent this
year, compared with an 11 percent jump in Zurich for  Nestle SA (NESN) ,
the world’s biggest food maker. Investors are now  buying 
Unilever’s shares at a 2 percent premium over the STOXX Europe
600 Index. In December, the premium was 54 percent.  Unilever’s struggles contrast with growth throughout the
$50 billion market for tea, the world’s most consumed beverage
after water. Sales of  Starbucks Corp.’s (SBUX)  Tazo tea at U.S.
retailers rose 43 percent last year, according to researcher
Symphony IRI. Atlanta-based tea retailer  Teavana Holdings Inc. (TEA) 
has more than 280 stores and will soon open in  Kuwait . Retail
tea sales in China and  India  have grown at double-digit clips
over the past five years.  Spate of Deals  That expansion has spurred a spate of deals.  Coca-Cola (KO)  Co.
last year bought the remaining portion of Honest Tea, which
makes low-calorie bottled teas. Nestle grabbed Sweet Leaf Tea
Co. This year, smoothie chain Jamba Juice Co. and Sara Lee
spinoff D.E Master Blenders 1753 NV have both acquired premium
tea makers. Unilever hasn’t made a big tea acquisition since its
1996  purchase  of Ireland’s Lyons brand.  In the U.S., Unilever is getting squeezed from all sides.
 McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  chose little-known S&D Coffee to supply its
restaurants with sweet tea, which some fans purchase three times
a day, McDonald’s U.S. president Jan Fields told analysts last
year. And higher-end brands such as Honest Tea and Sweet Leaf
have each seen growth in excess of 25 percent, according to
Symphony IRI data.  New Competition  Arizona  bottled tea -- known for its opaque glass bottles -
- surpassed Lipton last year thanks to new flavors like  Arnold Palmer , a blend of iced tea and lemonade named after the golfer.
Arizona, made by closely held Ferolito Vultaggio & Sons, has
benefited from cash-strapped consumers seeking cheap
refreshment, as its average price per bottle is almost 50 cents
lower than Lipton’s, according to Symphony IRI.  “There’s been a clear trade down and the beneficiary has
been Arizona,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein
in  New York , said in an e-mail.  Lipton is facing new competition from beverages like
PepsiCo’s Tropicana,  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB) ’s V8, and Coca-Cola’s
Glaceau Vitaminwater, all of which have ventured onto Lipton’s
turf with tea-infused varieties. Unilever’s response, an all-
natural tea called  Pure Leaf , is notable for the absence of the
Lipton brand; it’s hidden at the bottom of the back of the
bottle.  ‘Britain’s Favorite Tea’  Unilever’s lead in the U.S. bagged and loose tea category,
which is about one-third the size of the $2.5 billion bottled
tea segment, is also coming under attack as Lipton cedes market
share to pricier brands such as Tazo and Twinings, from
 Associated British Foods (ABF)  Plc. Twinings, whose founder opened
London’s first tea room in 1706, sells blends like cherry with
Madagascar cinnamon and also generates $25 million in annual
sales from single-serve tea pods delivered through  Green
Mountain Coffee Roasters Inc.’s (GMCR)  Keurig beverage machines.  Unilever has tried to stanch the bleeding by bringing its
PG brand to the U.S. and pitching it as “Britain’s Favorite
Tea.”  “That’s great, but so what?” said Turner, the Mintel
analyst. “Asian-Americans drink the most tea in the U.S., and
PG doesn’t appeal to them.” Almost half of Asian households
drink loose tea, versus an average of 14 percent of all U.S.
households, according to Mintel.  In tea-loving Britain, where nearly six in ten people drink
“a cuppa” daily, tea sales have declined over the past year,
Turner said, as flavored waters, carbonated drinks and coffee
gain adherents. Black tea, the most processed of all types of
tea and the most consumed in Britain, is also losing ground to
healthier green, herbal and fruit teas, especially among younger
consumers and women.  Earl Grey  Unilever has responded with a range of higher-end offerings
such as a black tea infused with a “subtle hint” of Earl Grey.
They’re made by pressing tea leaves at different stages after
picking. Polman has said they have “great promise,” yet a
Mintel analysis showed that after a strong start, both sales and
distribution of the Earl Grey blend are now below other new tea
products.  One way to generate some buzz for Unilever’s tea could be a
chain of tea cafes. The company last year  opened  a coffee shop
in  Mumbai  under its Bru brand, and pop-up Magnum shops have
helped build awareness of its high-end ice cream, sales of which
will surpass 1 billion euros this year.  In August, Marketing Week  reported  that Unilever was
preparing to create a tea café concept, citing a job listing for
a manager to lead the operation. Unilever declined to comment on
its plans, and Starbucks has already beaten it to the punch,
opening a Tazo tea bar near its Seattle headquarters this month.  ‘Cool’ Concept  “The idea of a tea shop makes you think of elderly matrons
and seaside towns,” Jon Cox, an analyst at Kepler Capital
Markets, said in an e-mail. Still, a “cool” concept linked to
tea’s health benefits “could work in some cities and get what
is a bit of a dowdy category going again.”  Whether it’s a café, new products or an acquisition,
Unilever needs to inject more life into Lipton. Earlier this
month, the Anglo-Dutch company put its Skippy peanut butter
brand up for sale, proof that Polman is willing to jettison
units that don’t measure up.  “Lipton is a great brand and has conquered the world with
its teas,” said Carl-Olof Skeppstedt, creative director of
London tea and coffee consultancy Tatler & Brown Ltd. “But it
does not have a clear identity. New brands, new flavors and a
demand for something other than Lipton is growing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  