-- World Trade Center Antenna Delivery to Proceed After Pact
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-10-23T17:13:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/world-trade-center-antenna-delivery-to-proceed-after-pact.html
ADF Group Inc. (DRX)  said it reached an
agreement with the  Port Authority  of  New York  &  New Jersey  to
end a dispute over the antenna that is to top 1 World Trade
Center, allowing delivery and erection of the structure to
proceed.  The Port Authority sued the Terrebonne, Quebec-based
company’s ADF Steel Corp. unit in New York state Supreme Court
on Oct. 13 for holding “hostage” the antenna that is to top
the skyscraper, which is under construction at the site of the
twin towers destroyed during the Sept. 11 terror attacks.  ADF and the Port Authority said in separate statements
today that the two sides have reached an agreement to resolve
their dispute that includes a resolution of the lawsuit. Terms
of the pact are confidential, Port Authority spokesman Steve Coleman said in an e-mail.  The erection of structural steel at the skyscraper is done
and the only remaining steel needed is for the 400-foot antenna,
the Port Authority said in the complaint. The antenna, designed
in collaboration with artist  Kenneth Snelson , is part of the
tower’s “crown” and will allow the building to reach a
symbolic height of 1,776 feet, according to a  website  for the
project.  The skyscraper will be the Western Hemisphere’s tallest
building and serve as a “symbol of recovery” after the
original towers collapsed in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks,
according to the complaint.  Contract Dispute  The Port Authority in its lawsuit said that ADF was
refusing to ship materials for the $10 million antenna unless it
received $6 million owed under a separate contract dispute, and
had asked the court to order requiring the company to deliver
the steel.  Delivery of the steel for the antenna could come as soon as
next month and the skyscraper is scheduled for completion before
the end of March 2014, Coleman said in an e-mail.  The case is WTC Tower 1 LLC v. ADF Steel Corp.,
653580-2012,  Supreme Court  of New York, County of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  