-- WTO Judges to Investigate Chinese Tariffs on U.S. Autos
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-10-23T10:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/wto-judges-to-investigate-chinese-tariffs-on-u-s-autos.html
The  World Trade Organization  said
judges will decide whether Chinese duties on more than $3
billion of U.S. car exports violate global trade rules.  The anti-subsidy and anti-dumping levies cover more than 80
percent of U.S. vehicle shipments, the Obama administration said
when it lodged its complaint at the Geneva-based WTO on July 5.
The vehicles include  General Motors Co. (GM) ’s Buick Enclave and
Cadillac CTS and Jeep’s Wrangler and Grand Cherokee, both made
by Chrysler Group LLC.  The U.S. complaint added to a growing list of trade
grievances between the world’s two largest economies that
include disputes over rare-earth minerals, solar panels and wind
turbines. U.S. companies doing business in China are less
optimistic than three years ago as Beijing favors domestic
competitors in a market valued at $250 billion, according to an
industry-group survey released on Oct. 10.  China , the world’s biggest car market, said on Dec. 14 it
planned to impose anti-dumping duties as high as 12.9 percent on
GM autos and 8.8 percent for Chrysler vehicles. China said U.S.
taxpayer support of the two carmakers amounted to a government
subsidy that was illegal under WTO rules, an allegation the
Obama administration rejects.  The U.S., which provided aid to the companies in 2008 in
return for stock, holds a 32 percent stake in GM. It sold its
Chrysler holdings to Italy’s  Fiat SpA (F)  a year ago.  The Chinese levies, which cover 92,000 vehicles, also were
applied to vehicles produced by the U.S. units of  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) , which pay 2 percent and 2.7
percent, respectively.  Boosting Obama  The U.S. complaint was designed to remind voters of
President  Barack Obama ’s efforts after taking office in 2009 to
rescue GM and Chrysler and to counteract criticism from
Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  that he’s been too
soft on China.  When China imposed the duties, its car sales were rising at
the slowest pace in 13 years, putting pressure on domestic
producers to consolidate as Detroit-based GM and other foreign
carmakers posted gains.  The WTO ruled on June 17 that China unfairly imposed anti-
dumping and anti-subsidy duties on more than $200 million of
U.S. steel products. The U.S. has also complained over access
for products including poultry, tires and music, while China has
filed WTO disputes against the U.S. over goods such as shrimp,
wind towers, diamond sawblades and steel wire.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  