-- Xerox Third-Quarter Profit Falls 12% on Printing Decline
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-10-23T20:06:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/xerox-third-quarter-profit-falls-12-on-printing-decline.html
Xerox Corp. (XRX) , the provider of
printers and business services, said third-quarter profit fell
12 percent as demand for its equipment and supplies declined.  Net income dropped to $282 million, or 21 cents a share,
from $320 million, or 22 cents, in the year-earlier period, the
Norwalk, Connecticut-based company said today. Earnings
excluding some items matched the 25-cent average of estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Xerox has said it faces weaker-than-expected demand in
 Europe  amid economic turmoil and competitive pricing. Investors
have been looking for increased profitability in services, where
the company is making up for declining printing revenue with
contracts such as automating payments for governments or
processing claims for insurers.  “Longer term they have the right strategy, they just have
a few execution issues,” Alban Gashi, an analyst at Credit
Suisse in  New York  who rates the shares neutral, said in an
interview before the earnings were released. “Investors need
them to draw a clearer road map for profitability.”  The shares dropped 4.8 percent to $6.69 at 4:04 p.m. in New
York. Through yesterday’s close the stock had fallen 12 percent
this year.  Xerox and competitors such  Lexmark International Inc. (LXK)  are
trying to redefine themselves as business-services companies as
consumers choose to view documents on mobile devices rather than
print them. The 2010 acquisition of Affiliated Computer Services
Inc. has helped Xerox in its transition, while Lexmark has been
laying off workers and exploring plans to sell its inkjet unit.  Third-quarter sales fell 2.9 percent to $5.4 billion, which
included a 2 percentage point negative currency impact,
according to a statement.  Services revenue advanced 4.8 percent to $2.8 billion
during the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cecile Daurat at 
 cdaurat@bloomberg.net  