-- Hynix Has First Profit in Four Quarters on FX, Cost Cuts
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-10-24T07:37:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-10-23/hynix-has-first-profit-in-four-quarters-on-fx-cost-cuts.html
SK Hynix Inc. (000660)  reported its first
profitable quarter in four as the world’s second-largest maker
of computer memory chips cut costs and a weakening dollar
reduced its debt denominated in the U.S. currency.  Net income was 2 billion won ($1.8 million) in the third
quarter, compared with a loss of 563 billion won a year earlier,
SK Hynix said today in a statement. The average of 31 analysts’
estimates was for a loss of 33 billion won, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  SK Hynix is cutting costs by shrinking the circuitry of its
chips to pack more memory in each of them as demand and prices
for dynamic random access memory used in PCs slumps. Icheon,
South Korea-based SK Hynix, a supplier to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , also
stands to benefit from a recovery in prices for NAND flash
memory for mobile devices as industry supplies decline.  “It’s much better than expected,” Song Myung Sup, a
Seoul-based analyst at HI Investment & Securities Co., said by
phone. “There must’ve been some cost cutting on the DRAM side.
The NAND side seems to have done better than expected too.”  The  operating  loss, or sales excluding the cost of goods
sold and administrative costs, was 15 billion won on sales of
2.42 trillion won, according to the statement.  SK Hynix  rose  4.1 percent, the most since Sept. 14, to
24,000 won at the close of trading in Seoul, while the benchmark
Kospi index fell 0.7 percent.  Lower Prices  South Korea’s won traded at an average 1,132.99 per dollar
during the third quarter, 1.7 percent stronger than the 1,152.37
average during the previous three months.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM averaged 84
cents in the July-September period, compared with $1.08 a year
earlier, according to data from Taipei-based DRAMeXchange,
operator of Asia’s largest spot market for semiconductors.  Global PC shipments fell 8.3 percent from a year earlier to
87.5 million last quarter, according to researcher Gartner Inc.
Framingham, Massachusetts-based data research firm IDC reported
an 8.6 percent decline.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  is the world’s largest maker of
computer memory chips.  Falling chip prices dragged Micron Technology Inc., which
agreed to buy  Japan ’s Elpida Memory Inc. to double its market
share in the computer-memory business, to a fourth-quarter loss
wider than the one a year earlier.  DRAM prices may stabilize in the fourth quarter as PC
makers are set to introduce new machines running on Microsoft
Corp.’s latest version of Windows operating system, Shin Hyun Joon, a Seoul-based analyst at Dongbu Securities Co., said in a
Sept. 28 report.  The September release of the iPhone 5 is also set to boost
sales of SK Hynix’s mobile DRAM and NAND flash chips, Shin said.  The NAND industry supply is also set to decrease with
Toshiba Corp. cutting output. The Japanese chipmaker said on
July 24 it will reduce its NAND output by 30 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  