-- A Netflix for Magazines Comes to IPad: Rich Jaroslovsky
-- B y   R i c h   J a r o s l o v s k y
-- 2012-07-18T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/a-netflix-for-magazines-comes-to-ipad-rich-jaroslovsky.html
Movie fans have  Netflix. (NFLX)  For music
lovers, there’s Spotify. So why not an all-you-can-eat service
for magazine readers?  Now there is one: Next Issue, a new iPad app offering
unlimited access to a growing number of well-known titles for a
single monthly fee. Despite its cost, and some significant
limitations, many avid readers will find it a godsend.  With their size and vivid graphics, magazines are arguably
the print medium that should be most easily adaptable to the
world of tablets. And there are already several ways to acquire
them, including  Zinio , which allows you to subscribe to
thousands of titles worldwide, and Apple’s own Newsstand.  Those services, though, generally require that you
subscribe to each title individually, either on the tablet or a
print version that also provides digital access.  By contrast, Next Issue -- which launched an early version
on Android tablets last spring while it prepped for its debut on
the big iPad stage -- gives you everything it’s got for a flat
fee. A plan that includes monthlies and bi-weeklies costs $10 a
month, while $15 gets you weeklies too.  One catch is that “everything it’s got” isn’t yet all
that much: only 39 titles so far, with archives only going back
to the start of 2012. But those 39 include a lot of the biggies:
Time, Vanity Fair, People, The New Yorker and Vogue, just to
name a few.  And Next Issue -- whose backers include  Conde Nast ,
 Meredith (MDP) , Hearst,  News Corp. (NWSA)  and  Time Warner (TWX)  -- promises to have
at least 70 titles by the fall.  Regular Reading  I certainly found more than enough to keep me occupied with
the likes of  Sports Illustrated , Wired and others on my regular-
read list.  It was also easy to dip into titles I don’t usually look at
-- Car & Driver, Esquire -- and I ended up spending considerably
more time reading magazines than I normally do, a thought that
surely warms the hearts of publishers and their advertisers.  The Next Issue app superimposes a consistent navigation
scheme on top of all its magazines, including a table of
contents and a carousel view that lets you rapidly flip through
the pages. That consistency is useful because each magazine has
its own individual navigation as well, and they’re all over the
place.  Just one example: In some titles, like Entertainment
Weekly, you page through an article by swiping side to side,
while in  Vanity Fair , you swipe up and down. Similarly, the
presence or absence of multimedia extras is entirely a function
of the individual title.  Personal Library  When you log into Next Issue, you’ll see thumbnail covers
of all the available titles. Pressing and holding one adds it to
your personal library, giving you a view of only those titles
you want to follow.  When a new issue is published, it appears in your library
with a “New” banner. You can also arrange to get an e-mail
alert, though surprisingly there’s no integration with the
iPad’s Notification Center, which would seem to be made for this
kind of thing.  Next Issue doesn’t download the actual contents of a
magazine until you select it. I could usually start reading a
story within about a minute, while the rest of the contents
continued to load in the background over Wi-Fi.  But only over Wi-Fi, which is an annoyance. Even if your
iPad is equipped with wireless data service from  Verizon (VZ)  or
 AT&T (T) , the app won’t let you download magazines over it.  By contrast, using the  Apple (AAPL)  Newsstand app, I was able to
access some of the same titles included in Next Issue over an
LTE connection without any problem.  Wherever, Whenever  The lack of wireless-service support detracts from the
wherever-whenever experience of feeling as if you’re carrying
your newsstand with you.  You can tell the app to automatically download the latest
issue of a magazine, but that only works when Wi-Fi is present
and the app is open. Next Issue says 3G/4G support will be added
in a future version of the software.  There are other issues to be addressed as well. Text
doesn’t take advantage of the newest iPad’s Retina Display, and
you can’t pinch and zoom to resize it for easier reading.  Nor is there personalization of the app, nor ability to
search across titles. (Next Issue says it’s working on those.)
And the app’s controls sometimes appear at inappropriate
moments, as when I was scrolling through a  New Yorker  “Talk of
the Town" piece.  Sure, you can get a lot of print subscriptions for $180 a
year. On the other hand, you can put the app on up to five
devices, meaning that a family can share a single account.  And just think of how many trees you’d be saving, to say
nothing of the convenience of always having something handy to
browse through. Next Issue is like having a doctor’s waiting
room on your iPad -- without having to worry about an injection
at the end.  (Rich Jaroslovsky is a Bloomberg News columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  car  and  television  reviews.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rich Jaroslovsky  in  San Francisco  at 
 rjaroslovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 