-- Billionaires Notify BP of Interest in Buying Stake in TNK-BP
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   T o r r e y   C l a r k
-- 2012-07-18T16:48:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/aar-billionaires-notify-bp-of-interest-in-buying-stake-in-tnk-bp.html
  BP Plc (BP/) ’s billionaire partners said
they will exercise their right to negotiate to buy shares in
Russian venture TNK-BP from the U.K. oil producer.  The group representing the billionaires now has 90 days to
negotiate with BP, the company said in an e-mailed statement.
While BP may talk with other parties during this period, it
cannot agree to any potential deal, AAR said.  AAR is seeking half of BP’s 50 percent holding in TNK-BP
after the London-based company said in June it was considering
exiting the venture after receiving unsolicited proposals to buy
its shareholding. That would take AAR’s holdings to 75 percent
of the venture. A quarter of TNK-BP has a market value of about
$9.4 billion, based on today’s closing of the venture’s listed
unit.  “AAR and BP both realize that a fundamental realignment in
the ownership of TNK-BP is necessary in order to allow each of
the shareholders to achieve its strategic objectives,” AAR
Chief Executive Officer  Stan Polovets  said in the statement.
“We hope that BP will now engage with us constructively.”  Today’s notice contained no specific proposal to BP, which
will follow later, Polovets said in a separate e-mail.  There’s no guarantee a transaction will take place and a
further announcement will be made when appropriate, BP said in a
separate statement.  Blocked Alliance  TNK-BP has paid BP $19 billion in dividends since 2003 and
accounts for a quarter of the company’s global output. BP Chief
Executive Officer Bob Dudley decided to look for a sale after
fighting repeatedly with the Russian partners, who last year
blocked an alliance between the British company and  Russia ’s OAO
Rosneft.  The existing 50-50 partnership no longer serves the
shareholders’ interests, billionaire  Mikhail Fridman  said May 31
after stepping down as TNK-BP chief executive officer earlier
that week.  Fridman traveled to  New York  and  Boston  last week to canvas
support from BP investors for a deal.  “AAR wanted to provide major BP shareholders with our view
of how the current impasse could be resolved,” AAR spokesman
Mikhail Luskutov said.  “Two scenarios discussed involved AAR
buying 25% of TNK-BP from BP and a transaction whereby AAR would
swap its stake in TNK-BP for cash and BP shares. Fridman also
explained why the status quo can’t continue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net ;
Torrey Clark in Moscow at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  