-- Abbott Profit Tops Estimates as Humira Drug Sales Climb
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e
-- 2012-07-18T20:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/abbott-profit-tops-estimates-as-humira-drug-sales-climb.html
Abbott Laboratories (ABT) , in the process
of splitting into two companies, reported second-quarter
earnings that beat analysts’ estimates as sales increased for
the company’s top-selling drug, the arthritis medicine Humira.  Earnings excluding one-time items of $1.23 a share beat by
1 cent the average of 19 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 2 percent to $9.8 billion, helped by
$2.3 billion in Humira sales, the  Abbott Park , Illinois-based
company said in a statement today.  Abbott said that the breakup into one company focused on
new drugs and the other on medical devices, generic medicines
and nutritional drinks is still set for the end of the year.
Bond investors are looking for Abbott to provide details on what
will happen with its credit ratings at that point, said  Joel Levington , managing director of corporate credit at Brookfield
Investment in  New York .  “A solid performance for Abbott,” Levington said in an e-
mail today. “However, for bondholders the cloud over the credit
profile remains.”  Abbott declined less than 1 percent to $65.93 at the close
in New York. The shares have gained 25 percent in the last 12
months.  Net income declined 11 percent to $1.73 billion, or $1.08 a
share, from $1.94 billion, or $1.23, Abbott said. Costs relating
to the split-up reduced results by 4 cents a share, while
expenses from asset acquisitions cut 5 cents a share.  Excluding the foreign currency impact, global sales would
have risen 6.7 percent, the company said. Abbott reiterated its
forecast of full-year earnings, excluding one-time items, of $5
to $5.10 a share.  The pharmaceutical side of Abbott has experimental
therapies for the treatment of hepatitis C, and is in a race
with drugmakers including  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and  Gilead
Sciences Inc. (GILD)  to develop new methods of treatment for the virus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shannon Pettypiece in New York at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  