-- Madoff Sons’ Greenwich and Manhattan Homes Targeted by Trustee
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-07-18T18:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/madoff-sons-greenwich-and-manhattan-homes-targeted-by-trustee.html
The trustee liquidating Bernard L.
Madoff Investment Securities Inc. is laying claim to four homes
owned by  Bernard Madoff ’s two sons and their spouses as he seeks
to recoup money lost in the  Ponzi scheme .  Irving Picard  filed so-called lis pendens notices last week
on two homes in Greenwich,  Connecticut , and two luxury
condominiums in Manhattan purchased by Mark and Andrew Madoff
and their wives, according to public records. The documents
alert potential buyers and lenders that Picard may have a legal
claim to the real estate after a lawsuit seeking to recover
about $255 million from the Madoff family is resolved.  Madoff’s firm “was operated as if it were the family piggy
bank,” according to a revised lawsuit filed May 4 with the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan , which adds Stephanie Mack, Mark
Madoff’s widow, and Andrew Madoff’s wife, Deborah, as
defendants. “Each of the family and spouse defendants received
directly or indirectly huge sums of customer property from BLMIS
to fund personal business ventures and personal expenses such as
homes, cars and boats.”  The homes in Picard’s notices filed July 10 include a
condominium at 583 Broadway in Manhattan’s SoHo neighborhood,
according to real estate data website PropertyShark.com. Mark
and Stephanie Madoff  purchased  the apartment in 2005 for $6.08
million, records filed with the  New York  City Department of
Finance show.  Mother’s Loan  Mark’s mother, Ruth Madoff, lent him about $5.6 million
from the family business in connection with the purchase and it
was never repaid, according to the trustee’s lawsuit.  The second Manhattan property,  Andrew Madoff ’s apartment at
 433 E. 74th St. , was purchased in 2008 with a loan of about
$4.49 million from his father, according to the lawsuit. The
money was wired directly to Andrew’s real estate agents and
lawyers, Picard’s complaint says.  The five-bedroom condo with limestone bathrooms and “Air-
Spa tubs” was bought for $4.38 million, 1.8 percent more than
the asking price at the time, according to StreetEasy.com, a
property-listings website. Madoff put the 3,200-square-foot
(297-square-meter) unit on the  market  for $4.5 million in March
but removed it after seven days, StreetEasy shows.  The trustee is also laying claim to two homes in Greenwich
-- 57 Tomac Ave., which Andrew and Deborah Madoff purchased in
1996 for $400,000; and 21 Cherry Valley Road, bought by Mark
Madoff in March 2000 for $2.23 million, according to the  town
assessor’s office .  Account Transfers  Funds for Andrew’s deal came from a $100,000 transfer from
his investment account at Bernard L Madoff Investment Securities
and a $300,000 transfer from the firm described as a loan from
 Ruth Madoff , according to Picard’s lawsuit. Mark’s purchase was
funded in part through transfers from an operating account at
his father’s company, the complaint says.  “The Trustee has found no evidence that such a loan was
ever serviced or the amounts repaid,” according to the suit.  Amanda Remus, a spokeswoman for Picard, declined to
comment. Stephen Shimshak, an attorney for Andrew Madoff and
executor of Mark Madoff’s estate, didn’t return a voice mail.  The Madoff firm began liquidating in December 2008, with
Picard’s appointment under the U.S. Securities Investor
Protection Act. Bernard Madoff is serving a 150-year prison
sentence following a guilty plea. Mark Madoff committed suicide
in December 2010.  The family lawsuit is Picard v. Estate of Mark Madoff,
09-01503,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The Madoff liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities
Inc., 08-01789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in New York at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  