-- Thai Beverage to Pay S$2.78 Billion for OCBC’s F&N Stake
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-07-19T10:23:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/thai-beverage-to-pay-s-2-78-billion-for-ocbc-s-f-n-stake.html
Thai Beverage Pcl (THBEV) ,  Thailand ’s
biggest beer maker, agreed to pay S$2.78 billion ($2.2 billion)
for  Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN) ’s shares held by Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. and its partners.  The Thai company will buy 313 million Fraser & Neave shares
at S$8.88 each, or about 22 percent of  Singapore ’s biggest
beverage maker from OCBC, its unit Great  Eastern Holdings Ltd. (EH) 
and Lee Rubber Co., according to an e-mailed statement yesterday.
The price is a 12 percent premium to yesterday’s close of S$7.96
in Singapore.  Brewers including  Asahi Group Holdings Ltd. (2502)  and Kirin
Holdings Co. have said they’re targeting takeovers in Southeast
Asia, where young populations and growing economies are spurring
beer sales. Fraser & Neave is one of two key investors in  Asia
Pacific Breweries (APB)  Ltd. in Singapore, a stake DMG & Partners
Securities said is its “crown jewel.”  “APB is by far the largest brewery player in the Asia-
Pacific region, with an extensive presence across 14
countries,” Goh Han Peng, an analyst at DMG, said in a report
today. “Given the small public float in APB, of less than 11
percent, brewery players that are keen to take a stake in APB
has been doing so indirectly by investing in F&N.”  OCBC, Singapore’s second-biggest bank, and Great Eastern
hold 18.2 percent of Fraser & Neave and 7.92 percent of Asia
Pacific Breweries, according to their filing. Lee Rubber, a
closely held company, owns 3 percent of OCBC, according to the
lender’s website.  Club Cozily  Thai Beverage is controlled by Thai billionaire Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi’s TCC Group. Charoen also owns companies in
industries ranging from insurance to property development. His
son-in-law, Chotiphat Bijananda, will buy shares of Asia Pacific
Breweries, Thai Beverage said.  “We are waiting to see what happens next, whether the main
shareholders will club cozily together or club one another over
the head,” said  Hugh Young , Singapore-based managing director
at Aberdeen Asset Management Asia Ltd., which owns 7 percent of
OCBC, less than 1 percent of Fraser & Neave and less than 0.1
percent of Asia Pacific Breweries. “For OCBC, it did absolutely
right with the deal, while time will tell for Thai Beverage.”  Fraser & Neave, Singapore’s biggest beverage maker, climbed
to a record high on July 17 after OCBC said it was in talks to
sell the shares. The stock slumped 4.5 percent to S$7.60 at the
close in Singapore, the largest drop in more than seven months.  Disappointed Shareholders  “Shareholders are disappointed that the offer was made to
OCBC and not to the rest of the shareholders,” said Lim Jit Soon, head of  Southeast Asia  research at Nomura Securities in
Singapore. “People have been buying the stock in anticipation
of a general offer.”  Asia Pacific Breweries surged 10 percent to S$42, a record.
OCBC and Great Eastern advanced more than 1.3 percent, and Thai
Beverage were unchanged in Singapore trading.  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  said today
Thai Beverage’s stock purchase could hurt its credit profile as
it may elevate its debt level. Annalisa Di Chiara, Moody’s
senior analyst, said the deal represented a “material change”
in Thai Beverage’s financial risk and acquisition appetite,
while Xavier Jean, an S&P analyst, said the “commercial
synergies of the acquisition could take time to materialize,
particularly given Thai Bev’s minority stake.”  Financial Business  OCBC said in its statement it will sell S$389.3 million of
Asia Pacific Breweries shares to Kindest Place Groups Ltd., a
company controlled by Bijananda. Great Eastern will divest its
stake in the Singapore beermaker for S$530.9 million, according
to the statement. The offer price for both stakes was S$45 a
share, or an 18 percent premium to yesterday’s close of S$38.10.  The bank said in a statement the sale was in line with its
strategy of focusing on its financial business.  Kirin (2503) ,  Japan ’s largest brewer by market value, bought 14.7
percent of Fraser & Neave two years ago for S$1.34 billion,
paying S$6.50 per share.  Heineken NV (HEIA) , the world’s third-largest brewer, owns a 42
percent stake in Asia Pacific Breweries, the maker of Tiger beer.
Fraser & Neave owns 40 percent.  Heineken said in a July 17 statement that it has noted the
announcement on Fraser & Neave and Asia Pacific Breweries and is
“actively considering” its options. The company didn’t say
whether it plans to make an offer for Asia Pacific Breweries.  Integrated Strategy  “We are aware of the announcement,” Kan Yamamoto, Kirin’s
spokesman, said by phone. “We won’t change our stance to focus
on our integrated beverage’s group strategy in Southeast Asia.”  Charoen was born and raised in Bangkok’s Chinatown district
after his parents moved from Shantau in  China , according to
TCC’s  website .  He started a trading business that supplied distilleries,
and became a distiller after being awarded concessions to
produce liquor in Thailand. Charoen bid for the rights to
operate distilleries under the Sang Som Group during the
liberalization of the nation’s liquor industry, and later
expanded into beer, alcohol, sugar, and packaging businesses,
according to the company.  Thai Beverage sold shares in Singapore in 2006 after anti-
alcohol protesters blocked an offering in its home market. The
company offered to buy  Serm Suk Pcl (SSC) , the bottler of  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) 
beverages in the Southeast Asian nation, for as much as 15.4
billion baht ($488 million) last September, saying the purchase
will allow it to expand its “non-alcoholic product portfolio.”  “The proposed investment immediately diversifies the
company geographically and is highly complementary to the
company’s existing single-market focus,” Thai Beverage said.
The investment “will enable exposure to high-growth Southeast
Asian markets with attractive demographics and consumer spending
trends.”  Morgan Stanley and HSBC Holdings Plc advised the buyer,
according to four people with knowledge of the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  