-- AIDS Deaths Drop as Global Access to HIV Drugs Expand
-- B y   S h a n n o n   P e t t y p i e c e   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-07-18T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/aids-deaths-drop-as-global-access-to-hiv-drugs-expand.html
Deaths from AIDS continued to
decline last year as the number of people on HIV drugs worldwide
surged 21 percent from 2010, according to a report that found
poor and middle income countries spent more on treatment.  Deaths dropped 5.6 percent to 1.7 million in 2011 from the
previous year as 8 million people in developing regions gained
access to medicines that fight the infection, according to a 
 report  today from UNAIDS, the United Nations’ program to treat
and prevent the illness. In Sub-Sahara  Africa , where 69 percent 
of people with HIV live, the number on therapy jumped to 6.2 
million from 100,000 in 2003.  “There is still a huge gap from where we should be, but
the world is doing better,” said  Mitchell Warren , executive
director of  AVAC:  Global Advocacy for HIV Prevention, in a 
telephone interview. “The big story is no longer about the 
science; it is about the money and politics. The two biggest 
questions now are where is the money coming from and where is 
it going to go.”  About 7 million people infected with HIV in low income
countries still need drugs and don’t get them, the report said.
Global health experts are now talking about getting millions
more people on medications based on  recent data  showing that
early treatment can prevent transmission of the AIDS virus. One
concern is how to pay for it as the U.S. and some European
nations tighten foreign aid.  AIDS Meeting  More than 20,000 AIDS researchers and activists will meet
in  Washington  next week at the  International AIDS Conference ,
the first time the gathering has been held in the U.S. in 22
years. Much of the focus of the weeklong conference will be on
how to get more people on treatment and prevent new infections,
which occurred in 2.5 million people last year, down from 3.2
million in 2001. The total number of people living with HIV is
34.2 million, the report said.  “It is definitely going in the right direction,” said
 Gottfried Hirnschall , director of the department of HIV/AIDS at
the  World Health Organization , in a telephone interview. “We
have a very decisive moment in front of us to say we need to do
more.”  AIDS deaths peaked in 2005 and 2006 at 2.3 million and have
been going down since then, according to the report.  Last year, governments and non-profits spent $16.8 billion
on HIV treatment and prevention, an 11 percent increase from
2010. Still, that’s at least $5 billion short of the $22 billion
to $24 billion needed to reach the  United Nations ’ goal of
getting treatment to all 15 million people who need it. The
recommendations call for treatment once infection-fighting cells
decline below a particular level.  Increased Costs  It will cost billions of dollars more to expand treatment
to a broader swath of patients with earlier stage disease in
order to prevent transmission of the AIDS virus. Last May, a
study of 1,763 couples in which one partner was infected found
that starting drug treatment right away in the infected person
greatly slashed the odds that the unaffected partner would get
the virus. The findings were the first proof that treating a
person with HIV can reduce the chance they will infect others.  In that study, a single infection occurred among 886
couples where treatment began immediately with a mix of drugs
from companies including  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)  and  Bristol-Myers
Squibb (BMY)  Co. Twenty-seven other infections occurred among 877
couples where treatment was delayed.  Treating all such couples with AIDS drugs would expand the
treatment pool by another 5 million people, said Hirnschall.
Treating pregnant woman living with the HIV virus and certain
other high-risk groups would add another 3 million people, he
said.  “The major challenge we face is to make paying for
treatment sustainable over the long term,” Michel Sidibe,
executive director of UNAIDS, said in the report.  Western Aid  While total funding from big Western aid donors has been
largely flat since 2008, countries in Africa and  Asia  that are
most affected by AIDS are spending more, the report said.
Spending on AIDS by affected low and middle income countries
increased 15 percent to $8.6 billion last year.  Some countries in Africa, including Rwanda and  Uganda , are
taxing mobile phone calls to help pay for AIDS treatment, the
report said, while  South Africa  has increased its AIDS funding
five-fold over the last five years.  “Countries that have been hit hard are doing more to
address their own epidemic and that is critical,” said  Chris
Collins , director of public policy at  amfAR , The Foundation for
AIDS Research, in a telephone interview. “It is a good sign.”  International Funding  Big international funders for HIV treatment include the
 United States , various European countries, and the Global Fund
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. Since 2004, the U.S.
government has almost tripled its funding of global AIDS
treatment and prevention to  $6.64 billion  through the U.S.
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, or PEPFAR. That
program provides drugs to 3.9 million people.  At the same time, the price of treatment has fallen to $100
a year per person from $10,000 in 2000 for the least expensive
regimens in the poorest countries, the report said. Gilead, the
world’s biggest maker of AIDS drugs, sells its drugs for no
profit in the poorest countries and has given permission to
Indian generic-drug makers to sell copies of some of its
medicines.  President Obama’s fiscal 2013 budget would cut AIDS funding
from the U.S. by $220 million, a 3 percent reduction from 2012
and a 7 percent cut from 2010 levels.  “This conference is about the huge potential we have to
begin to end the aids epidemic,” said Collins. “It would be a
tragedy if rich country donors failed to seize this
opportunity.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Shannon Pettypiece at 
 spettypiece@bloomberg.net .  Robert Langreth at   rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 