-- Alcohol Harms Thinking in Older Adults, Researchers Say
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-07-18T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/alcohol-harms-thinking-in-older-adults-researchers-say.html
Certain types of alcohol use after
age 65 may affect memory and thinking, according to two studies
that raise new questions about earlier research that suggested
drinking may stymie cognitive decline.  People 65 and older who regularly consumed four or more
alcoholic beverages at a time, a situation described in the
study as binge-drinking, were more likely to have the highest
drop-off in brain function and the most memory decline, 
according to one result. A second study reported that women 
who indulged heavily early in life or were moderate drinkers 
after 65 were more likely to have cognitive impairment.  Drinking alcohol had been thought to reduce the risk of
cognitive decline in some older people, the  Alzheimer’s
Association  said in a statement. Today’s reports, presented at
the  Alzheimer’s Association International Conference  in
 Vancouver , suggest more research is needed.  “It’s clear that the pattern of drinking is important,
that increasing alcohol consumption even to moderate levels may
not be a good idea, and that there is a lot we don’t know about
this topic,” said  Iain Lang , lead author of the binge-drinking
study and a senior lecturer in public health at the University
of Exeter’s Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry in the
U.K. “Older adults should be cautious.”  New research should be done to look at the effects of
alcohol consumption, including how binge drinking at younger
ages may affect people later in life, Lang wrote in an e-mail.  Alzheimer’s Victims  About 5.4 million Americans have Alzheimer’s, the most
common type of dementia, and by 2050 that number is expected to
grow to as many as 16 million, according to the  Alzheimer’s
Association . The number of people worldwide with the condition
is expected to swell to  115 million  by 2050.  Lang and other researchers analyzed data from 5,075 people
ages 65 and older who were part of the U.S.  Health and
Retirement Study . Data was collected in 2002 and participants
were followed for eight years.  In the study, 167 men and 47 women reported  binge drinking 
once a month and 86 men and 15 women said they engaged in binge
drinking on average twice a month.  The research found that those who reported binge drinking
once a month were 62 percent more likely than those who didn’t
to be in the group with the greatest decline in cognitive
function and 27 percent more likely to be in the group with the
greatest memory drop-off. For those who engaged in the heavy
drinking twice a month, they were 147 percent more likely to be
in the group with the greatest cognitive decline and 149 percent
more likely to be in the group with the greatest  memory loss ,
the study showed.  Binge Drinking  Today’s study is the first to look at binge drinking in
older adults, Lang said.  “Binge drinking, in particular, may pose risks to health
later in life that have not previously been identified,” he
said. “Physicians or others who advise patients about their
levels of alcohol consumption should be aware that it’s not only
how much people drink but how they drink that may be important
in relation to health.”  In the other study, researchers looked at 1,306 women at
least 65 years old who were followed for 20 years. At the start
of the study, 41 percent didn’t drink, 50 percent were
considered light drinkers having zero to seven drinks per week
and 9 percent were considered moderate drinkers, having seven to
14 drinks a week.  Drinking Habits  They found that those who drank more when they were younger
then at the start of the study were at a 30 percent increased
risk of developing cognitive impairment, while women who started
drinking during the trial had a 200 percent increased risk of
cognitive impairment. The study also showed that women who
consumed seven to 14 drinks a week toward the end of the study
were about 60 percent more likely to develop cognitive
impairment.  “These findings suggest that alcohol use in late-life may
not be beneficial for cognitive function in older women,” said
 Tina Hoang , the lead study author and clinical research
coordinator at the San Francisco Veterans Administration Medical
Center, in a statement. “It may be that the brains of oldest
old adults are more vulnerable to the effects of alcohol, but it
is also possible that factors associated with changing alcohol
use related to coping or loss could be involved. Clinicians
should carefully assess their older patients for both how much
they drink and any changes in patterns of alcohol use.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  