-- AmEx Profit Beats Estimates as Card Spending Increases
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-07-18T22:57:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/amex-profit-beats-estimates-as-consumer-card-spending-increases.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, reported a second-quarter
profit that beat analysts’ estimates as customer spending rose
and the lender posted the industry’s lowest default rates.  Net income  from continuing operations increased 3.4 percent
to $1.34 billion, or $1.15 a share, from $1.3 billion, or $1.10,
a year earlier, the New York-based company said yesterday in a
statement. That beat the $1.10 estimate of 24 analysts  surveyed 
by Bloomberg.  AmEx, led by Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault,
has relied on its base of affluent customers and drove more
spending to its global payments network to boost profit even as
U.S. retail sales cooled. The company also increased the
 dividend  and repurchased shares after Federal Reserve stress
tests showed the lender was among the best-equipped of 19 banks
examined to withstand a severe recession.  “Consumer, small-business and corporate cardmember
spending, along with the business volumes generated by our
network of bank partners, remained healthy despite a very uneven
economy,” Chenault said in the statement.  Worldwide card spending, or billed business, rose 6.7
percent to $221.6 billion, American Express said in a financial
supplement. Customer purchases averaged $3,948 per card, an
increase of 4.8 percent from a year earlier, when AmEx had fewer
cards outstanding. Total revenue advanced 4.6 percent to a $7.97
billion, according to the statement.  Share Performance  American Express slid 0.5 percent to $57.99 at 6:39 p.m. in
extended trading in New York and had gained 24 percent this year
through the close of regular trading yesterday, the third-best
 performance  in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  after Bank of
America Corp. and Walt Disney Co.  Retail sales in the U.S., where AmEx gets about two-thirds
of its revenue, fell for a third month in June as limited
 employment gains  took a toll on consumers. The 0.5 percent drop
followed a 0.2 percent decrease in May, according to Commerce
Department figures released this week. The decline exceeded the
most pessimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News survey that called
for a median 0.2 percent gain in sales.  The growth in card spending at AmEx is “slower than the
increases we’ve seen in the recent quarters,” Chenault said in
the statement. “Given the uncertain economic outlook, we
remained vigilant in managing discretionary expenses.”  Stock Repurchases  The company repurchased 30 million shares at an average of
$58.27 apiece in the second quarter and has spent $2 billion to
buy back stock this year, half the amount in its capital plan
for 2012, AmEx said. There were 1.14 billion shares outstanding
as of June 30, a 4.5 percent decline from a year earlier.  Expenses rose 2.3 percent to $5.63 billion from a year
earlier as the company reduced rewards program and marketing
costs and pared compensation, AmEx said.  The July 16 retail-sales report prompted economists at
Morgan Stanley, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group
AG to cut forecasts for economic growth in the second quarter. A
cooling job market is sapping the household spending that makes
up about 70 percent of the economy, curbing sales at retailers
such as Target Corp. and Macy’s Inc.  AmEx set aside $461 million for future losses, 29 percent
more than the same period in 2011, the company said.  The lender accounted for 25 percent of $2.05 trillion in
U.S. credit-card spending last year and almost a third of the
industry’s $179.9 billion increase from 2010, according to the
Nilson Report, an industry newsletter based in Carpinteria,
 California . New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co. had the second-
biggest share of spending with 18 percent.  Write-offs for loans AmEx deems uncollectible fell to 2
percent in June from 2.2 percent in May, the company said in a
July 16 regulatory filing. Loans at least 30 days overdue, a
signal of future defaults, held steady at 1.2 percent, the
lowest of the six-biggest U.S. credit-card issuers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  