-- Manchester Utd. Fails With $47 Million Moura Bid: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-07-18T08:18:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/manchester-utd-fails-with-47-million-moura-bid-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Bid Rejected  Manchester United  had a bid of 29.8 million pounds ($47
million) for  Sao Paulo  midfielder Lucas Moura rejected by the
Brazilian club, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Sao Paulo, which also turned down United’s opening bid of
25.9 million pounds, is currently without a sponsor and wants to
keep hold of the 19-year-old attacking midfielder to attract
outside investment, the newspaper added.  Oscar’s Medical  Oscar, another Brazilian midfielder, had a medical in
 London  yesterday ahead of his 25 million-pound transfer to
Chelsea, the  Daily Mail reported .  The 20-year-old will join the European champion from
Internacional after playing for Brazil’s Olympic squad at the
London Games, the Mail added.  Carroll Can Go  Liverpool striker Andy Carroll has been told he can leave,
with his former club Newcastle preparing a new bid of 16 million
pounds, the  Sun reported .  Carroll’s advisers spoke with Liverpool manager Brendan Rodgers yesterday, who told them the  England  forward is not part
of his plans, the newspaper added.  Dempsey Deal  Rodgers has agreed to spend 10 million pounds to sign U.S.
forward  Clint Dempsey  from Fulham, the  Mail reported .  Dempsey, 29, is due on Merseyside in the next few days and
Rodgers expects the deal to be concluded before the end of the
week, the newspaper added.  Walcott’s Contract  Arsenal is yet to open contract talks with Theo Walcott
even though the England winger could leave as a free agent next
year, the  Guardian reported .  Walcott’s deal expires June 30, 2013, and were he to leave
on a free transfer Arsenal wouldn’t be entitled to receive
anything in development costs because he would be too old, the
Guardian said. Manager  Arsene Wenger  will try to talk to Walcott
on the club’s pre-season tour to Asia, it added.  Formal Talks  Arsenal captain  Robin van Persie  is set for formal talks
with Wenger as he considers his options away from the Gunners,
the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The Netherlands striker, whose participation in the Asia
tour is still undecided, is interested in joining Juventus or
Manchester United, the Telegraph said, adding that  Manchester
City  is preparing a 20 million-pound bid for the player.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  