-- Land Securities Vacancy Rate Rises on U.K. Economic Woes
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-07-18T10:11:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/land-securities-retail-vacancy-rate-rises-on-u-k-economic-woes.html
Land Securities Group Plc (LAND) , the
U.K.’s largest real estate investment trust by value, said
property vacancies rose in the first quarter as the number of
visitors to its shopping malls declined by 2.8 percent.  The vacancy rate rose to 3.2 percent at the end of June
from 3 percent at the end of March, the London-based company
said in a statement today.  “We will continue to be risk aware, but not risk averse,”
Chief Executive Officer Rob Noel said on a conference call.
“While the market is challenging, we remain confident in our
position.”  Share price gains by U.K. real estate companies this year
are “unsustainable” because of a deteriorating retail
industry, Societe Generale SA said yesterday.  Consumer spending 
in Britain will grow 0.1 percent this year and 1.3 percent next
year, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP said July 12. The U.K. economy
entered its second recession in three years in the first
quarter.  Land Securities was down 0.6 percent at 776 pence as of
11:04 a.m. The stock has risen 22 percent this year, giving the
company a market value of 6.05 billion pounds ($9.43 billion).  The amount of empty retail space owned by Land Securities’
outside  London  was unchanged at 3.6 percent through March. In
the U.K. capital, where the company holds offices and shopping
malls, vacancies increased to 2.9 percent from 2.5 percent at
the end of March.  Not Pretty  “It’s not a pretty sight for retailers out there,” Noel
said on the call. “They’re trading against all elements at the
moment. The key is to have the right locations.”  Land Securities will try to attract more mid-market
retailers to its One New Change mall in the  City of London 
financial district rather than luxury brands, he said.  The first dividend payment for the current financial year
will be 7.4 pence a share compared with 7.2 pence in the same
period in 2011, Land Securities said.  The Walkie-Talkie skyscraper, which Land Securities is
building in a joint venture with Canary Wharf Group Plc, is
close to being 19 percent rented out in advance of its April
2014 opening, Noel said. Businesses signing contracts for office
space with the company are usually getting a 12-month rent free
period in return for signing a five-year lease, he said.  Land Securities plans to complete an office and retail
building in the Victoria district near  Buckingham Palace  next
month. More than 40 percent of the 178,000 square feet (16,540
square meter) of  office space  and all of the shops at 123
Victoria Street have been leased in advance, according to
today’s statement.  Office Pipeline  “Management might just call the cycle right on its office
development pipeline,”  Alan Carter , a real estate analyst at
Investec Ltd., said in a note to investors today. He has a hold
recommendation on the stock.  Noel said potential tenants continue to show interest in
office space amid negative economic news.  “While transactions are taking longer, occupier interest
and intent remains firm as businesses seek out efficient space
for their future needs,” the CEO said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 