-- Apollo Approaches $2.5 Billion Close for Europe Debt Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-07-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/apollo-approaches-2-5-billion-close-for-europe-debt-fund.html
Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) , the
private-equity firm run by  Leon Black , expects to raise about 2
billion euros ($2.5 billion) by next week for a fund that will
buy loans from European banks.  Apollo European Principal Finance Fund II secured 1.6
billion euros as of June 21 and anticipated 400 million more in
commitments by the July 24 closing, according to an update to
clients, a copy of which was obtained by Bloomberg News. The
fund is seeking 1.5 billion to 2 billion euros with a limit of
2.5 billion euros.  Private-equity firms are positioning themselves to take
advantage of banks’ efforts to offload nonperforming loans,
repay government bailouts and meet new regulatory requirements.
Avenue Capital Group LLC, the distressed-debt firm co-founded by
billionaire  Marc Lasry , recently raised a $2.78 billion fund
that will buy distressed debt in  Europe .  Carolyn Sargent , a spokeswoman for Apollo at Rubenstein
Associates Inc. in New York, declined to comment.  Apollo’s new fund will focus on purchasing European
nonperforming loans in the residential, commercial, consumer and
corporate areas from stressed and distressed financial
institutions. Apollo’s servicing business, Lapithus Group, will
help collect on the loans.  The firm gathered 1.3 billion euros in 2009 for the
predecessor fund, Apollo European Principal Finance Fund I. That
fund produced an 8.6 percent net internal rate of return as of
March 31, according to the company.  First Investment  Fund I deployed about 1.2 billion euros in 19 loan
portfolios and made four strategic investments as of May 31,
according to the update. The fund in May bought almost half of a
101 million-euro German commercial mortgage loan that was
secured by a property in Leipzig whose sole tenant is the
federal state of Saxony, according to the update.  The same month, Fund II made its first investment, buying
660 million euros of Irish credit-card loans from Bank of
America Corp. for 465 million euros. The investment will be
split between both funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  