-- Army Strain May Block Assad Repeating Father’s Blitz Nationwide
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-07-18T20:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/army-strain-may-block-assad-repeating-father-s-blitz-nationwide.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
ability to fight back against the biggest threat to his family’s
four-decade rule is hampered by a wavering army and an enemy it
can’t pin down.  Assad’s government yesterday vowed retribution for the
Damascus blast that left Assef Shawkat, the president’s brother-
in-law and part of his inner circle of power, among the dead. It
was the most direct strike against top officials since the
revolt began in March last year, prompting speculation by
political analysts that Assad’s days are numbered.  The threat to “decisively eliminate” the opposition
recalled the military assault by Assad’s father, Hafez, on the
city of Hama in 1982 to crush a Sunni Muslim-led rebellion
against the Shiite-affiliated family’s rule. In the current
uprising, violence hasn’t been confined to a single city, with
clashes spreading to the capital in the past week. That means
Bashar would need to rely on a larger and less unified military
force to subdue it with similar tactics.  While  Syria ’s army looks powerful on paper, “the majority
of the soldiers are Sunni and there is some evidence that when
units go into battle they begin to fall apart,” said Jeremy Binnie, Middle East editor at Jane’s Defence Weekly. “The
question is, do they have enough reliable personnel to put down
the rebellion, and the answer over the last few months seems to
be no.”  Hama Assault  Hafez al-Assad sent tanks and artillery to encircle Hama,
known for its wooden waterwheels, and then bomb residential
neighborhoods where support for the revolt was concentrated. At
least 10,000 people were killed in less than a month of
fighting, according to estimates cited by groups including
 Amnesty International . That compares with a death toll of about
17,000 in the uprising of the past 17 months, which has largely
pitted majority Sunnis against a leadership class drawn from the
Alawite minority.  Desertions from Syria’s armed forces had reached about
60,000 by March, according to a Turkish Foreign Ministry
estimate, as growing numbers refused to join the crackdown.
Syria’s army had 295,000 active personnel, according to the
International Institute for Strategic Studies’ 2012 Military
Balance.  Syria’s Information Minister Omran al-Zoubi said in an
interview with state television the Syrian army hasn’t used all
its strength so far. “We can increase the army numbers to 4
million tomorrow with volunteers if we need to,” he said.  ‘Major Blow’  Yesterday’s bombing killed and wounded several senior
officials in the inner circle of government. Syrian Defense
Minister Dawoud Rajhah and Shawkat, a high-ranking government
official, died in the blast, according to state media. The
explosion also injured other government officials, including the
interior minister.  “This is a major blow,” said  Andrew Tabler , a fellow at
the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. “There is a real
risk now he will lash out and commit all his forces, and
possibly all methods to snuff this out. Assad loyalists will try
to survive by shooting their way out of it.”  Efforts by government forces and their supporters to crush
the rebellion have failed to prevent the spread of fighting
across the country. Rebel fighters, mostly armed with light
weapons, have been pushing into the capital to battle government
forces armed with tanks, artillery and attack helicopters.  The killings in the capital indicate the government may not
be able to control the outcome of escalating warfare, U.S.
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said yesterday.  ‘Out of Control’  “By ignoring those appeals by the international community
the violence there has only gotten worse and the loss of life
has only increased, which tells us that this is a situation
that’s rapidly spinning out of control,” Panetta said.  Information Minister al-Zoubi said the fight with the 
rebels is a “decisive battle, not only in Damascus, but in all of
Syria.”  About 4,300 members of the security forces have been killed
since March last year, according to Rami  Abdel Rahman , head of
the Syrian Observatory for  Human Rights , an opposition group.  “History tells us these guys are going to fight to the
last bullet,” Abdulkhaleq Abdulla, professor of political
science at the Emirates University in Al Ain, said in a
telephone interview from  London .  Officials Defect  Assad has seen several of his officials defect. Nawaf al-
Fares, Syria’s former envoy to  Iraq , joined the opposition
earlier this month, saying the government had turned the ruling
Baath party into “an instrument to kill people.” He was the
first Syrian ambassador to abandon the government. About a week
earlier, Syrian Brigadier-General Manaf Tlas, a  Sunni Muslim ,
also defected.  The bombing yesterday may even be a reflection of internal
divisions within the Syrian regime, said  Theodore Karasik ,
director of research at the Dubai-based Institute for Near East
and Gulf Military Analysis. “Assad’s inner circle is trying to
replicate his father’s success after Bashar was unable to do
so,” he said in a phone interview.  “The defections are significant but it doesn’t mean the
army is crumbling yet,” said Karasik. “We may need to start to
speculate how the regime will try to protect itself by securing
Damascus with soldiers from other countries.”  Russia has vowed to block a United Nations Security Council
resolution threatening sanctions and military action against
Syria. The latest developments prompted the UN's decision-making 
body to delay until today a vote on a Western draft seeking to
increase pressure on Assad.  Russian Support  “Adopting this resolution would mean direct support for
the revolutionary movement,” Foreign Minister  Sergei Lavrov 
told reporters in Moscow yesterday. “If we are talking about
revolution, the UN has no business here. Assad won’t quit and
our Western partners don’t know what to do.”  Syria was an ally of the  Soviet Union , receiving weapons
and financial support for the Arab standoff with  Israel  for two
decades after Hafez al-Assad took over the presidency following
a 1970 coup. Russia still sells Syria weapons and has its only
military base outside the former Soviet Union in the Syrian port
of Tartus.  “The Russians have themselves a problem,”  George Lopez , a
former UN sanctions investigator who’s now at the Kroc Institute
for International Peace Studies at the University of  Notre Dame 
in  Indiana , said in a telephone interview. “They have backed
themselves into a corner where they will be seen as having
direct responsibility if he uses chemical weapons or unleashes
more firepower from the air.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Dubai at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  