-- Artists Flee Los Angeles Museum Board, Deitch Draws Fire
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i   a n d   K a t y a   K a z a k i n a
-- 2012-07-18T19:31:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/artists-flee-los-angeles-museum-board-deitch-draws-fire.html
The departure in the past week of
four prominent artists from the board of the Museum of
Contemporary Art in Los Angeles has fueled speculation that
billionaire Eli Broad will step in and take over the 33-year-old
institution.  Four years ago, when MOCA was in financial distress, Broad
agreed to give it $30 million. A turnaround that began that
year, however, appears to have stalled under Jeffrey Deitch, the
former  New York  gallery owner who was named chief executive of
MOCA in January 2010.  The museum’s operating profits have declined, matching
funds have gone unmatched and board members have quit. Critics
have questioned whether Deitch’s knack for shows that attract
large visitor numbers can offset what they see as his
shortcomings in drawing donations.  “To be a director of a private museum today, one really
has to be good at fundraising,” said Los Angeles philanthropist
Jane Nathanson, who left MOCA’s board in March due to
disagreement with the direction the museum was taking under
Deitch’s leadership. “This is a wake-up call that MOCA will not
survive the way it’s been run.”  Broad, co-founder of Los Angeles-based  KB Home (KBH) , expressed
his support for Deitch in a July 8 editorial in the Los Angeles
Times. “MOCA will thrive and will avoid the problems that are
plaguing other institutions,” he said.  Yet Broad, 79, also has been mentioned as a likely savior
for MOCA. He has a personal interest in maintaining the health
of a museum he co-founded and for which he will soon be an
institutional neighbor. He is building a contemporary-art museum
featuring his personal collection just two blocks from MOCA’s
flagship downtown location. Known as The Broad, it is due to
open in 2014.  Norton Simon  “The phrase I’m hearing from everybody is, ‘Did you read
the Norton Simon book?’” said Hugh Davies, director of the
Museum of Contemporary Art,  San Diego , referring to a 1998
biography of the founder of Hunt Foods.  Simon took over the struggling Pasadena Museum of  Modern
Art , turning it into a California institution that now bears his
name. “This is a reprise of that,” Davies said.  Karen Denne, a spokeswoman for Broad, said the
philanthropist has “categorically said he has no interest” in
taking over MOCA. “The only relationship The Broad will have
with MOCA is to allow free admission for all MOCA members,” she
said in an e-mail.  Ono, Haring  Deitch, 59, ran Deitch Projects, a gallery with three New
York locations that produced more than  250 exhibitions ,
including ones featuring the works of  Yoko Ono  and  Keith Haring .
His first show for MOCA highlighted the artistic career of actor
 Dennis Hopper , while one this year was curated by Mike Diamond,
a member of the rap group the  Beastie Boys .  An exhibition last year of graffiti artists produced the
 highest attendance  in MOCA’s history, with 201,352 visitors,
while total guests doubled to more than 400,000 for the year,
MOCA said. Deitch has brought in other board members including
 Steven Cohen , chairman of  Stamford , Connecticut-based SAC
Capital Advisors LP and an art collector. Cohen declined to
comment through his spokesman.  Tensions at the museum escalated after MOCA announced the
 resignation  of 22-year-veteran curator Paul Schimmel June 29.
Artist board members  John Baldessari , Barbara Kruger, Catherine Opie and  Ed Ruscha  announced they were quitting, citing
disappointment with the museum’s direction.  “Can important and serious exhibitions receive funding
without a donor having a horse in the race?” Kruger and Opie
wrote in their resignation letter. “Is attendance a sustaining
revenue stream for museums?”  Operating Profits  Lyn Winter, director of communications for the museum, said
Deitch wouldn’t be available to comment. She forwarded a
statement from MOCA board co-chairmen Maria Arena Bell and David
G. Johnson, who said they “deeply regret the resignations” of
the artists and hoped “they will continue in important roles
and provide valuable counsel for MOCA.”  MOCA reported that its revenues exceeded expenses by
$316,000 for the fiscal year that ended June 30, 2011, the most
recent year for which a financial statement was available. That
compares with operating profits of $5.4 million and $6.2 million
in the previous two years.  Endowment Fund  The museum’s investment portfolio, at $20 million, is
unchanged from 2007. In addition to supplying exhibition funds,
Broad made a $15 million grant in 2008 contingent on MOCA
attracting matching contributions. The grant doesn’t expire, and
$6.25 million in matching donations have been made, according to
Denne. MOCA has $7.5 million in a  reserve fund  that could be
used to replenish the endowment, she said.  “The museum made a conservative, near-term decision in the
last fiscal year to maintain maximum flexibility in its
operations by keeping cash in reserve rather than increasing the
endowment,” Winter said in an e-mail. “MOCA has a healthy cash
balance and no debt.”  Museum employment, at 45 full-time workers, is one-third
what it was in 2008, reflecting cuts, consolidation and
attrition from curatorial, fundraising and education staffs,
according to Winter.  The cuts are too aggressive and put too much reliance on
guest curators, said Charles Young, a former  University of
California  chancellor who served as chief executive of the
museum for 19 months through June 2010.  “A museum has to be an educational, conservatory
institution,” Young said. “You can’t abandon that for the
populist approach. You can’t run a museum on what people pay to
attend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Palmeri in  Los Angeles  at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net ;
Katya Kazakina in New York at 
 kkazakina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  