-- Retton Legacy Leads U.S. Gymnasts From Medals to Riches
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-07-18T13:12:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/mary-lou-retton-legacy-leads-u-s-gymnasts-from-medals-to-riches.html
Gabrielle Douglas had won the U.S.
gymnastics trials 12 hours earlier and was getting her first
taste of the riches and responsibilities that come with one of
the most public of Olympic berths.  Along with the flowers and special leotards reserved for
the five members of the American women’s team, the 16-year-old
Douglas was assured of a six-figure salary after the London
Games and had already signed a sponsorship deal with  Procter &
Gamble Co. (PG)   Douglas is the latest in a line of tumbling teenagers who
turn into America’s sweethearts every four years. She and her
teammates will be a focus of prime-time Olympic coverage on
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, which paid $1.18 billion for the U.S.
television rights to the games. The gymnasts will share the
stage with older millionaires such as swimming’s  Michael Phelps 
and basketball’s  LeBron James , both 27.  “There’s a smile, there’s a look, every girl wants to be
Mary Lou Retton and every parent wants to have a kid like
that,” said Peter Shankman, founder of the Geek Factory
marketing firm in  New York . “On a marketing level, it’s a sense
of innocence that we’ve seemed to lose in professional sports.”  On a July morning in San Jose,  California , Douglas cradled
her new iPhone while explaining that her Twitter followers had
doubled overnight -- to more than 17,000 from about 8,000.
Though she had gotten one hour of sleep, her smile never faded.  Her mother, Natalie Hawkins from  Virginia  Beach, Virginia,
also was all smiles -- and said she felt a huge sense of relief
and satisfaction after spending more than $150,000 on Gabby’s
training and travel.  Guaranteed Income  Whether or not they succeed at the Olympics, Douglas and
her teammates will make a base salary of more than $100,000 each
for participating in the 40-city Kellogg’s Tour of Gymnastics
Champions that begins Sept. 8 in  San Jose , California, and ends
Nov. 18 in  Brooklyn , New York.  Joining Douglas on the Olympic team are McKayla Maroney,
Aly Raisman, Kyla Ross and reigning all-around world champion
Jordyn Wieber. The five members of the men’s team also will be
on the Kellogg’s tour after the London Games.  If they win team or individual medals at the London Games
that begin July 27, the Olympians could earn as much as $500,000
each on the tour, according to Steve Penny, president of USA
Gymnastics. For a U.S. gymnast such as 2008 Olympic all-around
champion Nastia Liukin, personal endorsements can push that
figure well over $1 million, Penny said.  Metal Detector  Liukin, 22, won five Olympic medals in 2008, which got her
stopped at a Beijing airport metal detector when she forgot to
take them out of her purse. She came home to a hero’s welcome,
the Kellogg’s tour and endorsements with products ranging from
Subway sandwiches to P&G’s Cover Girl makeup.  The Russian emigre, the daughter of two former Soviet
gymnastics champions, has been in the gym since she was a
toddler.  “I never thought in a million years that something I loved
would give me this incredible career,” Liukin said in a
telephone interview. “There’s no amount of money, no number of
sponsorships that can make you train for seven hours a day,
seven days a week, but it’s definitely a nice reward for all the
time you put into it.”  Evan Morgenstein, Liukin’s agent and president of Cary,
North Carolina-based Premier Management Group, said some of her
sponsorships were signed before the Olympics and more came
later. Some were guaranteed, while others offered bonuses for
gold medals. He didn’t provide details on the contracts.  Extended Deals  The key to financial success for Olympic athletes is
extending deals beyond their window of fame, Morgenstein said.
Liukin joined with  Warner Bros . on a line of Supergirl by Nastia
clothing sold exclusively by  JCPenney Co. (JCP)   Retton turned a gold medal into national fame by becoming
the first American woman to win the all-around Olympic title at
the 1984 Los Angeles Games and the first woman featured on a
Wheaties cereal box. She said this year’s gymnasts should be
themselves and get good managers.  “I would tell them to deal with the sponsors as the people
they are,” Retton, 44, said in an e-mail. “These girls
are grounded and they are like I was. I didn’t seek fame or
riches, just success. If they approach business after the
games in this manner, things will work out just fine.”  Kerri Strug overcame a sprained ankle to help the U.S.
women’s team win at the 1996 Atlanta Olympics. Carly Patterson
won the all-around gold in 2004, and Liukin beat U.S. teammate
Shawn Johnson for the all-around in 2008.  “They become rock stars overnight,” Penny said in an
interview at the gymnastics trials in San Jose. “Our athletes
become the equivalent of American idols.”  Athlete’s Transition  Johnson, 20, retired in June because of a left knee injury.
She’ll work for P&G at the Olympics, the continuation of a
relationship she nurtured while winning four medals in Beijing.  “The transition from the Olympics into the marketing world
is nothing that you can really prepare yourself for,” Johnson
said in an interview at the trials. “The older I get, the more
it becomes a career and a job. And it becomes something that
ultimately will give me a future I want and that I worked for.”  NBC plans to show all of the women’s gymnastics at the
London Games in primetime, including the team finals on July 31.  At the 2008 Olympics, the night that featured the women’s
all-around gymnastics final drew 29.7 million viewers -- about 2
million more than the average primetime audience throughout the
games, said Adam Freifeld, a spokesman for NBC Sports Group. It
was the fourth-most watched night of competition in Beijing,
trailing only nights that featured Phelps, who won a record
eight gold medals.  ‘Hugely Popular’  “It’s a hugely popular event, it’s going to generate a lot
of programming for us in primetime,” Mark Lazarus, chairman of
NBC Sports Group, said in a June 27 conference call. “The drama
of that event is very important to us.”  NBC Universal  will offer live online coverage of every
Olympic event for the first time this year, though only pay-TV
subscribers will be able to access most of the 3,500 hours of
coverage at NBCOlympics.com.  Hawkins, a senior collections specialist for  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA) , was on disability when she took a two-year leave of absence
because of her youngest daughter’s gymnastics obligations.
Gabby’s victory at the Olympic trials was the culmination of
years of financial sacrifice for the family, the mother said.  “I have allowed myself to officially say, when I saw her
on that floor crying, that all the hard work and sacrifice paid
off,” Hawkins said. “To send my daughter away and spend all
that money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  