-- U.S. Stocks Gain With Treasuries, Commodities; Euro Falls
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-07-18T21:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/asian-stocks-gain-dollar-falls-as-bernanke-keeps-stimulus-open.html
U.S. stocks rose for a second day
amid better-than-estimated earnings and a jump in housing
starts. Treasuries climbed while the dollar fell against most
peers and natural gas led commodities to a sixth straight gain.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index added 0.7 percent to
1,372.78 at 4 p.m. in  New York  and the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index
closed up 1.1 percent. Ten-year Treasury yields dropped one
basis point to 1.49 percent. German two-year notes rose after
the nation sold 4.17 billion euros ($5.1 billion) of the
securities with a negative yield for the first time, and the
government’s five-year rate declined to the lowest ever. The
euro halted a three-day advance to trade 0.1 percent lower.  Intel Corp. climbed 3.3 percent to pace the advance in
 technology companies  and  Honeywell International Inc. (HON)  surged 6.7
percent to help lead  industrial shares  up after profits topped
analyst estimates. U.S. housing starts jumped 6.9 percent to the
highest level since 2008. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  testified to Congress for a second day on the state of
the economy, telling lawmakers in the House that monetary policy
has helped growth and the job market.  “Earnings have been a mixed bag so far but given the
healthy state of corporate America with cash on the balance
sheets and valuations undemanding, we can weather this
environment in terms of share prices,” Mark Luschini, chief
investment strategist for Philadelphia-based Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC, which manages about $54 billion, said in a telephone
interview. “Looking at the markets, all I can see in them is
the Bernanke bid.”  Bernanke Watch  Stocks rallied yesterday, sending the S&P 500 up 0.7
percent, after Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee that
policy makers are studying options for further easing that may
include additional asset purchases. Bernanke today said central
bankers are capable of removing record stimulus from the
financial system and raising  interest rates  when needed to avoid
triggering inflation.  “It will be a similar pattern to what we’ve seen in
previous episodes where the Fed cut rates, provided support for
the recovery, and when the recovery reached a point of takeoff
where it could support itself on its own, then the Fed pulled
back, took away the punch bowl,” Bernanke told the House
Financial Service Committee as part of his semi-annual testimony
to Congress.  The Fed said the economy expanded at a “modest to
moderate” pace in June and early July, as retail sales and
manufacturing cooled in some regions, according to the central
bank’s  Beige Book  business survey today, which is based on
reports from its 12 district banks.  Market Leaders  Technology shares surged 1.9 percent as a group and
industrial companies added 1.7 percent to lead gains among the
10 main industries in the S&P 500. Intel’s earnings of 54 cents
a share topped the average analyst estimate of 52 cents. The
company said revenue will increase 3 percent to 5 percent in
2012, lower than an earlier prediction for growth in the high
single-digit percentages.  Intel had the biggest gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , followed by gains of more than 2 percent in Cisco
Systems Inc., Microsoft Corp., International Business Machines
Corp. and Hewlett-Packard Co.  ‘Not Disastrous’  “Intel lowered guidance but it was not unexpected and not
disastrous,”  Michael James , a managing director of equity
trading at Wedbush Securities Inc. in  Los Angeles , said in an e-
mail. “ Pessimism (INTC)  was pretty high and we’re now seeing people
both covering and getting long some names. Intel’s leading the
the technology group higher.”  EMC Corp. surged 9.4 percent after the  software company 
said Pat Gelsinger will succeed Paul Maritz as chief executive
officer of VMware Inc. Maritz will return to EMC, which owns 79
percent of VMware, as chief strategist. VMWare jumped 12
percent.  Honeywell rallied 6.7 percent after the  maker of flight
controls  and thermostats reported better-than-estimated results
driven by sales in its aerospace unit. Amphenol Corp., a maker
of fiber-optic cables, and W.W. Grainger Inc., a distributor of
building maintenance supplies, surged more than 11 percent for
the biggest gains in the  S&P 500  after releasing improved
earnings forecasts.  Earnings Season  The S&P 500 has climbed for two straight days after
slumping in seven of the previous eight sessions. The index is
down more than 3 percent from a four-year high in April amid
concern the economic recovery was slowing while investors braced
for what is projected to be the first drop in quarterly earnings
in almost three years.  Earnings have exceeded analyst estimates at 72 percent of
the 68 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported results so
far, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Profits have
slumped 3.3 percent for the group and the entire index is
projected to report a 2.1 percent decrease in earnings.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  cut its year-end forecast for the
S&P 500 to 1,425 from 1,440, citing the potential of a U.S.
recession induced by so-called fiscal cliff.  Andrew Garthwaite ,
global equity strategist, said he sees a 10 percent chance of
the economy contracting should lawmakers do nothing to prevent
about $607 billion of tax increases and spending cuts from
kicking in at the end of the year.  The dollar weakened against 10 of 16 major peers, losing
more than 0.3 percent versus the Japanese yen, Swedish krona and
Australian dollar. The U.S. currency was little changed at
$1.2284 per euro.  Commodities Gain  Natural gas surged as much as 8 percent, leading gains in
22 of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI Index, amid
predictions of a smaller-than-normal increase in stockpiles.
Cattle futures and hogs gained more than 2 percent on
speculation that the declining U.S. herd size caused by rising
feed costs will lead to a shortage of supplies.  Wheat rose for a sixth straight session on forecasts that
dry weather will persist for the next week, further cutting the
condition of U.S. crops.  Among European stocks, Credit Suisse jumped 4.5 percent
after it announced measures to cut costs and boost capital by
8.7 billion Swiss francs ($8.9 billion). Puma SE tumbled 4.8
percent after Europe’s second-largest sporting-goods maker cut
forecasts for sales and profit in 2012.  Analysts are cutting European profit forecasts at the
fastest rate since 2009 as the region heads for a recession and
growth in  China  slows for a sixth quarter.  European Yields  U.K. five-year note yields fell six basis points to 0.49
percent after  Bank of England  minutes indicated policy makers
may reconsider the case for an interest-rate cut.  Germany’s two-year note yield dropped one basis points to
minus 0.06 percent, while Finnish two-year yields fell below
zero for the first time. Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose 14
basis points to 6.96 percent as the securities dropped for a
fifth day.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index declined 0.2 percent,
halting a three-day gain. China’s Shanghai Composite Index rose
0.4 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese
companies listed in  Hong Kong  dropped 0.9 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi index slid 1.5 percent while Taiwan’s Taiex Index and the
Philippine Stock Exchange Index lost more than 1 percent.  Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the nation’s labor
situation will become more “severe,” stoking bets he’ll
announce measures to spur growth as the State Council meets.  “There are expectations for more measures to boost the
economy at the State Council meeting so investors are using that
as a reason to buy,” said Wu Kan, a Shanghai-based  fund manager 
at Dazhong Insurance Co., which oversees $285 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  