-- Asia Stocks Fall as China Growth Concern Tempers Bernanke
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2012-07-18T09:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/asian-stocks-rise-as-bernanke-keeps-stimulus-option-open.html
Asian  stocks  declined after Chinese
Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned of a “severe” jobs outlook and amid
concern Asian companies’ profits are falling. Exporters to the
U.S. gained as Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the
central bank is prepared to act to spur growth.  Huaneng Renewables Corp Ltd., an alternative energy
company, slumped 14 percent in  Hong Kong  after saying profit may
fall more than 50 percent. Japanese utilities extended losses
for a second day after a report that a fault line is active
beneath a nuclear plant.  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which gets a third of
its revenue from  North America , rose 1.9 percent in  Tokyo .  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  dropped 0.5 percent to 115.55
as of 6:44 p.m. in Tokyo, after rising as much as 0.4 percent.
Shares advanced in the past three sessions amid optimism China’s
policy makers will take more steps to support growth in the
world’s second-largest economy.  “China’s authorities are showing they will respond with
further policy easing as they are required, but that’s an overly
positive outlook because the economy needs to deteriorate to get
the central bank to do stimulus,” said  Stephen Halmarick ,
Sydney-based head of investment market research at Colonial
First State Global Asset Management, which oversees about $150
billion. Bernanke “continued to indicate that the Fed would
ease policy further if they thought that was necessary.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 10 percent from this
year’s high on Feb. 29 through yesterday as Chinese companies
issued profit warnings as the nation’s economic growth slows,
and amid concerns about Europe’s debt crisis.  Relative Value  The Asian benchmark, which contains some companies from
emerging market, trades for 11.8 times estimated earnings on
average, compared with 13.1 times for the  Standard & Poor’s 500
Index (SPXL1)  and 10.8 times for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average fell 0.3 percent,
reversing earlier gains. South Korea’s  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  slid 1.5
percent after the Korean Central News Agency said North Korea
officially made leader Kim Jong Un the nation’s Marshal.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index lost 1.1 percent as Chinese
developers fell after a report showing rising new  home prices  in
some mainland cities spurred speculation the government has less
scope for further easing.  China’s Shanghai Composite gained 0.4 percent.  Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  dropped 0.4 percent.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index climbed 0.1 percent for its
14th advance in 16 days. The gauge is the second-best performing
developed market index after Denmark’s this year.  China Jobs  China’s labor situation will become more “severe” and the
government will continue to implement a more “proactive” labor
policy, Premier Wen said yesterday, according to a statement
posted on the central government’s website. The comments build
on the premier’s warning published three days ago that the
nation’s economic rebound lacks momentum and difficulties may
persist for a while.  Australian miners BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group,
which get more than a quarter of their sales from China, slid 2
percent to A$30.18 and 3.1 percent to A$52.78 respectively.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest Hong
Kong-listed mainland developer by value, slumped 4 percent to
HK$17.80 while China Resources Land Ltd. declined 5.9 percent to
HK$14.92.  China’s home-price rebound makes it more difficult for the
government to loosen policies aimed at restricting gains in the
property sector, said Nomura Holdings Inc. economist Zhang
Zhiwei. Prices climbed in 25 cities out of the 70 the government
looks at and fell in 21 from a month earlier, according to data
released by the statistics bureau today.  Profit Warning  Huaneng Renewables retreated 14 percent to HK$1 in Hong
Kong. The company said it expects profit for the six months
ended June to drop by more than 50 percent from a year earlier
on intensified electricity output constraints and a decrease in
wind speed.  Hyundai Development Co. (012630) , an apartment and housing
constructor, slumped 3.6 percent to 21,400 won in Seoul after
Kyobo Securities Co. cut its target price by 42 percent to
26,000 won, citing a weaker earnings outlook.  Japanese nuclear power generator  Hokuriku Electric Power
Co. (9505)  plunged 21 percent to 877 yen. Kansai Electric Power Co.
slumped 6.3 percent to 758 yen, extending yesterday’s losses.
Regulators will ask the utilities to conduct studies after a re-
examination of surveys showed that a fault line under a Hokuriku
Electric nuclear plant is probably active, Nikkei reported,
without attribution.  S&P Futures  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slid 0.1 percent
today. The index climbed 0.7 percent in New York yesterday after
a report showed the cost of living in the U.S. was little
changed in June.  Bernanke told the Senate Banking Committee in Washington
yesterday that easing tools include further purchases of assets,
cutting the interest rate the Fed pays on reserves banks keep
with the central bank, and altering its communications on the
outlook for  interest rates .  Nissan Motor  rose 1.9 percent to 713 yen in Tokyo. James
Hardie Industries SE, a building-products maker that receives
about two-thirds of its sales from the U.S., rose 1.9 percent to
A$8.20 in Sydney.  Techtronic Industries Co. (669) , the maker of Ryobi
power tools that gets 72 percent of revenue from the U.S., added
4.9 percent to HK$9.90.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  