-- Asian Currencies Gain After Bernanke Remarks on Further Easing
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-07-18T09:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/asian-currencies-gain-on-bernanke-easing-remarks-china-hopes.html
Asian currencies advanced after
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said U.S. policy makers
are studying further monetary easing, which previously has
increased the flow of funds seeking higher-yielding assets.  Malaysia’s ringgit headed for its longest winning streak
since April and  China ’s  yuan  advanced for a third day. Bernanke
said yesterday possible Fed stimulus measures may include adding
to two rounds of asset purchases since the global financial
crisis. South Korea’s won pared its biggest gain in two weeks
after  North Korea  announced Kim Jong Un’s appointment to the
nation’s top military post.  “There will probably be a third round of quantitative
easing which will probably de-base the  U.S. dollar  and support
Asian currencies,” said Chua Hak Bin, a Singapore-based
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  The ringgit strengthened 0.3 percent to 3.1575 per dollar
as of 4:40 p.m. in  Kuala Lumpur , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The won gained 0.1 percent to 1,141.55 after rising
as much as 0.5 percent. The Philippine peso rose 0.1 percent to
41.670 and the yuan climbed 0.04 percent to 6.3702.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the
region’s currencies, was steady following a three-day advance.
Its 60-day historical volatility dropped to 3.69 percent from
3.71 percent.  China Meeting  “We haven’t really come to a specific choice at this
point, but we are looking for ways to address the weakness in
the economy should more action be needed to promote a sustained
recovery in the labor market,” Bernanke said in his testimony
to Senate Banking Commission in Washington yesterday.  The Fed chairman resumes his semi-annual testimony before
the House Financial Services Committee today.  South Korea’s currency trimmed gains and the Kospi Index
fell 1.4 percent. Kim assumed the title of marshal, the North’s
state-run Korean Central News Agency said in a statement today,
seven months after he took over the totalitarian state following
the death of his father,  Kim Jong Il .  China’s yuan rose after the People’s Bank of China set the
currency’s daily reference rate at 6.3140, or 0.04 percent
stronger than yesterday.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said yesterday that China’s labor
situation will become more “severe,” underscoring concern that
the weakest economic growth since 2009 will lead to more job
losses. The government will continue to implement a more
“proactive” labor policy, he said.  China Stimulus  “Wen’s remarks on employment policy triggered expectations
of fresh pro-growth measures in China,” according to a research
note from Credit Agricole CIB today. The State Council could
meet as early as today that may be followed with policy-easing
measures, the China Securities Journal reported on July 16.  Thailand’s baht slid 0.4 percent to 31.68 per dollar from
near a two-week high, while India’s rupee weakened 0.2 percent
to 55.221 on speculation local importers boosted dollar
purchases to benefit from a more favorable  exchange rate .  “Importers, including gold companies, may want to buy the
dollar as the baht strengthened lately,” said Norawit
Suparinayok, a foreign-exchange trader at  Bangkok Bank Pcl. (BBL) 
“Risk sentiment is quite stable and some investors may think
gold prices will go up.”  Oil importers in India bought dollars before Bernanke
resumes his testimony, according to Vikas Babu, a trader at
state-run  Andhra Bank (ANDB)  in Mumbai.  Elsewhere, Indonesia’s rupiah fell 0.2 percent to 9,482,
Taiwan’s dollar dropped 0.1 percent to NT$30.002 and the
Vietnamese dong was little changed at 20,850.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  