-- ASML Gains on Forecast of Higher Profitability After Orders Rise
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-07-18T16:07:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/asml-second-quarter-orders-top-estimates-slower-sales-forecast.html
ASML Holding NV (ASML) ,  Europe ’s biggest
semiconductor equipment maker, reported orders that beat analyst
estimates and said technological advances will boost business in
the longer term. The shares rose 6.8 percent.  Second-quarter net bookings climbed 9.8 percent from the
first quarter to 949 million euros ($1.16 billion) excluding
second-generation extreme ultraviolet lithography systems, the
Veldhoven, Netherlands-based company said in a statement today.
That exceeded analysts’ average estimate of 898 million euros in
a Bloomberg survey.  The rise of products such as tablet computers and Internet-
surfing phones is helping fuel demand for ASML’s machines, which
make the chips needed to run such devices. The company said it
plans to ship its first EUV production system, which enables the
production of smaller and more powerful chips, “by the end of
this year or early next year.”  ASML has “solid growth prospects from EUV technology in
2013 and beyond,” James Crawshaw, an analyst at  Standard &
Poor’s , said in a note today. The company also has a “strong
competitive position in the lithography market as evidenced by
the recent investment made by Intel,” said Crawshaw, who
maintained a hold recommendation for the stock.  ASML shares climbed 2.81 euros to 44.23 euros at the close
of Amsterdam trading. The stock has gained 36 percent this year.  Rising profitability  Profitability will grow “steadily,” Chief Executive
Officer Eric Meurice said on a conference call today. “We are
anchored by the short-term 2012, and by the mid- to long-term
lithography market,” which is driven by a huge “technology
transition appetite” in the industry.  Intel Corp. (INTC) , the world’s largest chipmaker, last week
agreed to invest as much as $4.1 billion in the Dutch company to
speed up development of new production techniques and take a
stake of as much as 15 percent. ASML said it’s discussing
similar investments with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330)   ASML supplies machines to chipmakers including TSMC and
Intel, which yesterday scaled back its revenue forecast amid
slower personal-computer demand in the U.S. and Europe.  Applied
Materials Inc. (AMAT) , ASML’s U.S. rival, on July 10 cited weaker
demand in Europe and  China  as a reason why it won’t reach
earlier revenue and profit projections.  Memory Chips  ASML’s second-half net sales will be in a range of 2.2
billion euros to 2.4 billion euros, the company said today. That
compares with an average 2.45 billion-euro estimate of analysts
in a  Bloomberg survey  and the 2.67 billion euros in revenue
reported a year earlier.  Second-half sales will reflect demand for NAND memory
chips, which in turn hinges on the success of new ultrabook
computers and smartphone deliveries, Meurice said in the
statement.  ASML scheduled an extraordinary shareholder meeting for
Sept. 7 to discuss the agreement with Intel.  The company said it expects to maintain sales minus
production costs at about 43 percent of revenue in the third
quarter. Net income in the three months through June rose to 292
million euros from 282 million euros in the previous quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  