-- Aussie Dollar Touches Two-Week High on Fed Stimulus Bets
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-07-18T05:12:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/aussie-dollar-touches-two-week-high-on-fed-stimulus-bets.html
Australia’s currency touched an
almost two-week high against the dollar amid speculation the
 Federal Reserve  will take additional steps to boost growth.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , who will testify before
Congress for a second day today, reiterated yesterday that the
U.S. central bank is prepared to act to stimulate the economy.
The Australian dollar held a three-day advance after the
country’s leading economic indicator rose to the highest level
since August. Demand for New Zealand’s currency was limited
after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd. said whole-milk prices
fell for a second-straight auction.  “The market continues to speculate on the chances of
QE3,” said  Mike Jones , a Wellington-based currency strategist
at Bank of New Zealand Ltd., referring to a potential third
round of asset purchases by the Fed, also known as quantitative
easing. The bias for the Australian and New Zealand dollars “is
higher in the short term,” he said.  Australia ’s dollar touched $1.0326, the strongest since
July 5, before trading at $1.0308 as of 3:11 p.m. in Sydney. The
so-called Aussie climbed 0.7 percent to $1.0316 yesterday. New
Zealand’s dollar slid 0.2 percent to 79.67 U.S. cents, following
a 1.1 percent advance over the past three days.  Responding to questions yesterday from the Senate Banking
Committee in  Washington , Bernanke said possible Fed stimulus
measures could include further purchases of assets, such as
mortgage-backed securities, reducing the interest rate paid on
reserves kept with the Fed, and altering the central bank’s
communications on the outlook for  interest rates . He is
scheduled to testify before a House of Representatives committee
today.  Australian Growth  An Australian  index  of leading economic indicators rose to
the highest level since August, according to a report today from
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and the Melbourne Institute. The index, a
gauge of future economic growth, advanced 0.8 percent in May
from a month earlier to 282.5.  “Growth in the second half of 2012 and into 2013 will
adopt an improving tempo,”  Bill Evans , Westpac’s chief
economist, said in a statement today. “The current disposition
of the monetary authorities appears to be to sit tight for the
next few months in the wake of the surprising strong surge in
growth in the first quarter.”  Westpac yesterday pushed back the timing of its forecast
for the next  Reserve Bank  of Australia rate cut to the fourth
quarter from a previous prediction of August.  Interest-rate
swaps  indicate a 56 percent chance the RBA will lower its
interest rate by 25 basis points at its next meeting on Aug. 7,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an
81 percent chance indicated on July 13.  Milk Powder  Australia’s government bonds  declined , pushing the yield on
the 10-year note up by two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 2.95 percent.  A decline in milk-powder prices weighed on New Zealand’s
currency. Milk powder for September delivery fell 6.4 percent
after dropping a similar amount in the previous auction,
according to a trade-weighted index on Fonterra’s
GlobalDairyTrade website. The near-term contract declined to
$2,538 a metric ton, the lowest since $2,488 on May 15,
according to Auckland-based Fonterra, which accounts for about
40 percent of the global trade in dairy products.  “The milk-price auction was a little disappointing,
especially given the context of surging prices in soft
commodities,” said Bank of New Zealand’s Jones. “It’s taken
some of the gloss off” the  New Zealand dollar .  The S&P GSCI Agriculture Index has advanced 16 percent this
year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  