-- Avianca Slows Growth Pace as Global Outlook Dims, Villegas Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-07-19T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/avianca-slows-growth-pace-as-global-outlook-dims-villegas-says.html
Avianca Taca Holding SA (PFAVTA) , the owner
of  Colombia ’s biggest airline, is slowing its expansion this
year as a precaution as global growth falters, company President
Fabio Villegas said.  Avianca Taca will expand available seat kilometers, a
measure of passenger capacity, 14 percent this year, after about
18 percent growth in 2011, Villegas said in an interview in his
Bogota office yesterday.  “We are being a bit more conservative in the face of
market volatility,” Villegas said. “We are not feeling it yet,
but we are anticipating impacts that could happen.”  Avianca Taca shares have gained 23 percent this year, the
second-best performer in Colombia’s IGBC  index , as passenger
numbers rose 14 percent in the first five months of 2012 from
the same period in 2011. In April, the company also paid its
first dividend since the stock started trading in May 2011.  The company expects “good” second-quarter results even
though crude prices were above $100 a barrel for much of the
quarter and the Colombian economy slowed, Villegas said.  Colombia’s gross domestic product expanded 4.7 percent in
the first quarter from a year earlier, its slowest pace since
2010. Retail sales fell 2.8 percent in April from a year
earlier, the first year-on-year decline since September 2009.  Revenue Diversification  The company hopes to diversify its sources of revenue and
take advantage of Colombia’s free-trade agreement with the U.S.,
which took effect in May, by boosting its cargo capacity with
the four Airbus A330-200 freighter planes it ordered last year,
Villegas said.  The company could make acquisitions in  Latin America  in the
next two to three years, Villegas said.  “This is an option that you can never rule out, but to be
big just for the sake of being big isn’t sufficient in this
business,” Villegas said. “Size and profitability aren’t
proportional.”  While Avianca Taca may sell American depository receipts
“down the road,” there is no immediate plan to do so, Villegas
said.  Brazilian investor German Efromovich paid $64 million to
buy control of Avianca from the late billionaire Julio Mario Santo Domingo and save it from bankruptcy in 2004. He then
created a joint venture with San Salvador-based Taca and brought
on Villegas, a former interior minister who helped lead the
U.S.-backed manhunt for drug lord  Pablo Escobar  in the 1990s.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Bogota at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  