-- Bank of Canada July Monetary Policy Report Summary (Text)
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-18T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bank-of-canada-july-monetary-policy-report-summary-text-.html
Following is the text of the summary
of the Bank of  Canada ’s Monetary Policy Report, released today in
Ottawa.  Global growth prospects have weakened since April. While the
economic expansion in the  United States  continues at a gradual
but somewhat slower pace, developments in Europe point to a
renewed contraction. In  China  and other emerging economies, the
deceleration in growth has been greater than anticipated,
reflecting past policy tightening and weaker external demand.
This slowdown in global activity has led to a sizable reduction
in commodity prices, although they remain elevated. The
combination of increasing global excess capacity over the
projection horizon and reduced commodity prices is expected to
moderate global inflationary pressures. Global financial
conditions have also deteriorated since April, with periods of
considerable volatility. The Bank’s base-case projection assumes
that the European crisis will continue to be contained, although
this assumption is subject to downside risks.  While global headwinds are restraining Canadian economic
activity, domestic factors are expected to support moderate
growth in Canada. The Bank expects the economy to grow at a pace
roughly in line with its production potential in the near term,
before picking up through 2013. Consumption and business
investment are expected to be the primary drivers of growth,
reflecting very stimulative domestic financial conditions.
However, their pace will be influenced by external headwinds,
notably the effects of lower commodity prices on Canadian incomes
and wealth, as well as by record-high  household debt . Housing
activity is expected to slow from record levels.  Government
spending  is not projected to contribute to growth in 2012 and to
contribute only modestly thereafter, in line with plans to
consolidate spending by federal and provincial governments.
Canadian exports are projected to remain below their pre-
recession peak until the beginning of 2014, reflecting the
dynamics of foreign demand and ongoing competitiveness
challenges, including the persistent strength of the Canadian
dollar.  The Bank projects that the economy will grow by 2.1 per cent
in 2012, 2.3 per cent in 2013 and 2.5 per cent in 2014. The
economy is expected to reach full capacity in the second half of
2013, thus operating with a small amount of slack for somewhat
longer than previously anticipated.  Core inflation  is forecast to remain around 2 per cent over
the projection horizon as the economy operates near its
production potential, growth in labour compensation stays
moderate and inflation expectations remain well anchored. Given
the recent drop in gasoline prices and with futures prices
suggesting persistently lower  oil prices , the Bank expects total
CPI inflation to remain noticeably below the 2 per cent target
over the coming year before returning to target around mid-2013.  The inflation outlook in Canada is subject to significant
risks.  The three main upside risks to inflation in Canada relate to
the possibility of higher global inflationary pressures, stronger
Canadian exports and stronger momentum in Canadian household
spending.  The three main downside risks to inflation in Canada relate
to the European crisis, weaker global momentum and the
possibility that growth in Canadian household spending could be
weaker.  Overall, the Bank judges that the risks to the inflation
outlook in Canada are roughly balanced over the projection
period.  Reflecting all of these factors, on 17 July, the Bank
decided to maintain the target for the overnight rate at 1 per
cent. To the extent that the economic expansion continues and the
current excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed, some
modest withdrawal of the present considerable monetary policy
stimulus may become appropriate, consistent with achieving the 2
per cent inflation target over the medium term. The timing and
degree of any such withdrawal will be weighed carefully against
domestic and global economic developments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Greg Quinn  in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  