-- BOJ Scraps Yield Floor to Bolster Bond-Buying Operations
-- B y   Y u m i   I k e d a   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-07-18T04:55:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bank-of-japan-scraps-yield-floor-to-bolster-funding-correct-.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  scrapped its 0.1
percent yield floor for its purchases of  government bonds  as it
sought to bolster flagging demand in its funding operations.  The central bank removed the limit on purchases of
securities with maturities of one year or less in its so-called
rinban operation, or outright buying of  Japan’s debt , BOJ
spokesman Tsuyoshi Nakamura confirmed today. The change was
implemented at the BOJ’s meeting on July 12 and communicated to
banks and securities companies while not included in its policy
decision release. Scrapping the yield floor means the BOJ can
now buy debt at negative yields.  The revision is intended to attract enough sell offers when
the BOJ conducts funding operations and highlights the central
bank’s difficulty in executing its existing stimulus efforts. It
failed to attract enough bids in its rinban purchases on July 6
for a second time since May, as banks chose to hang on to the
bonds rather than take cash. A six-month funding operation also
didn’t reach its bid goal for a 14th straight time on July 10.  “There is a high chance that the BOJ will scrap the floor
rate for bonds with a remaining maturity of more than a year,”
according to a report today by Naka Matsuzawa, chief strategist
at Nomura Securities Co. Such an extension would “depend on
whether their yields remain 0.1 percent and BOJ operations
continue to fail to reach targets.”  The BOJ on July 12 bolstered its asset purchase fund by 5
trillion yen ($63 billion) to 45 trillion yen while cutting the
size of credit-loan facility by the same amount. It left its
overnight rate target between zero and 0.1 percent, the level it
has been since October 2010.  EFSF Auction  Yields on  Japan ’s benchmark 10-year and 5-year government
securities last week reached the lowest since 2003 amid bond-
purchase operations by the central bank and as investors sought
a haven from the global economic slowdown.  The European Financial Stability Facility, the region’s
temporary rescue fund, yesterday auctioned 1.49 billion euros
($1.8 billion) of six-month bills at a yield of minus 0.0113
percent. The EFSF joined  Belgium ,  Denmark ,  France , Germany, the
Netherlands and  Switzerland  in being able to attract investors
to pay for the safety of holding their debt.  Borrowing costs of Europe’s higher-rated nations have
plunged since the  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to 0.75 percent and lowered its deposit rate to
zero on July 5.  Japan’s 10-year yield slid half a basis point to 0.765
percent as of 1:52 p.m. in  Tokyo , according to Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. It
reached 0.755 on July 13, the least since June 2003 when the
all-time low of 0.43 percent was set.  The five-year rate was at 0.185 percent today from as low
as 0.175 last week. Twenty-year yields slid to as low as 1.555
percent least since August 2010.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Ikeda in Tokyo at 
 yikeda4@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  