-- Bank of America, UBS, Wells Fargo Top Wealth Manager Rank
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m
-- 2012-07-18T07:57:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bank-of-america-ubs-wells-fargo-lead-wealth-manager-ranking.html
Bank of America Corp.  kept its lead
in a ranking of the world’s 20 biggest wealth managers in 2011,
while  UBS AG (UBSN)  climbed one place into second position, according
to Scorpio Partnership.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , another of the eight U.S.-based private
banks on the list, was third, followed by  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the
London-based research firm said in a survey of 201 companies
published today. Assets under management declined at 15 of the
top 20 biggest firms in 2011, amid volatile financial markets,
the report said.  Business expansion in new regions, particularly  Asia ,
helped firms on the list with at least $20 billion of managed
assets increase funds by an average 0.9 percent last year,
according to the survey.  “These markets present a significant opportunity to
attract new client business,” Scorpio said in an e-mailed
statement. “The financial services in these markets are often
commission-based and therefore generate higher margins.”  The larger firms boosted net new money by 16 percent on
average compared with a 137 percent decline in net flows among
smaller banks beneath the $20 billion threshold, according to
the survey.  The average cost-to-income ratio across Swiss wealth
managers worsened to 83 percent from 81 percent, compared with
an industry average of 80 percent. Switzerland has five firms in
the top 20.  France  and the U.K. each have two.  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s private bank jumped to 13 from 20 in the
ranking after the firm changed its reporting method to include
fee-based accounts greater than $1 million as assets under
management.  Scorpio  also included data for Morgan Stanley that
relate to accounts greater than $1 million, helping to explain
its decline in the ranking.  The following is a table of the world’s biggest wealth
managers based on end-2011 data from the Scorpio survey. The
ranking may not be directly comparable with previous Scorpio
reports as data may be adjusted each year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at 
 gbroom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  