-- Bank of Canada Says Consumers for Growth as Exports Lag
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-18T17:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bank-of-canada-says-consumers-for-growth-as-exports-lag.html
The  Bank of Canada  said consumers
and business investment will lead modest economic growth through
2014 while weaker global demand curbs exports that are having
the weakest recovery since World War II.  Consumption will provide 1.1 percentage points of growth
this year and spending on housing 0.4 points, accounting for
almost three-quarters of a 2.1 percent expansion, the Ottawa-
based central bank said today in its monetary policy report.  Governor  Mark Carney  kept his key  interest rate  at 1
percent yesterday and reiterated his next move may be an
increase, even while trimming his economic forecast and as
central banks in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia  add stimulus. Some
investors are betting Carney will cut rates as the world’s 10th
largest economy is dragged down by Europe’s fiscal crisis and a
prolonged U.S. recovery.  Asked about  Canada  running counter to other countries,
Carney said “global monetary policy isn’t a cut-and-paste,”
adding “there is a very small amount of excess capacity in the
economy, rates are at 1 percent, they are very low.”  The bank’s outlook “includes a gradual reduction in
 monetary stimulus  over the projection horizon, consistent with
achieving the inflation target,” policy makers said in the
report, repeating language from its last report in April.  Housing Market  Canada’s housing market is showing “signs of
overbuilding” and Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s moves last
month to tighten mortgage rules should make the market “more
sustainable,” today’s report said. Housing investment will not
add to growth in 2013 and 2014, the central bank forecast.  Business investment will add 0.8 percentage points to the
economic growth rate in 2013 and 2014, the bank said.  The central bank cut its growth outlook for this year to
2.1 percent from April’s 2.4 percent projection, and for 2013 to
2.3 percent from 2.4 percent. Part of that stems from a drop in
the price of crude oil, one of Canada’s biggest exports, Carney
said today. Crude oil has declined 9.4 percent this year based
on  New York  Mercantile Exchange prices.  “This is the story of the Bank of Canada over the last few
years,” said Thanos Bardas, a managing director in  Chicago  at
Neuberger Berman LLC, which oversees about $89 billion in fixed-
income assets. “Every time they would like to raise rates
because they think the economy is nearing full potential there
are external events that get in the way.”  Inflation Target  On a  quarterly basis , the bank said Canada’s economy
expanded at a 1.8 percent annual pace in the April-June period,
and forecast 2 percent growth in the current quarter. The
expansion will accelerate to a peak of 2.7 percent in the fourth
quarter of next year, it projected.  “The Canadian growth profile is now arguably worse than it
was even in last January’s MPR when there was no tightening
bias,” said  Krishen Rangasamy , senior economist with National
Bank in  Montreal , in a note to clients. The central bank “may
have decided to keep the tightening bias in July to counter
expectations of rate cuts by markets.”  The Bank of Canada sets interest rates to meet a 2 percent
inflation target. It said today  inflation  will slow to an
average of 1.2 percent in the third quarter because of lower  oil
prices  before returning to 2 percent one year later.  The economy was operating about half a percentage point
below full capacity in the second quarter, the bank said,
unchanged from its first quarter estimate.  ‘Modest Withdrawal’  “To the extent that the economic expansion continues and
the current excess supply in the economy is gradually absorbed,
some modest withdrawal of the present considerable monetary
policy stimulus may become appropriate,” the central bank said.  Net exports will contribute 0.1 percentage point to growth
next year and 0.2 point in 2014, the report said. Shipments
abroad are being held back by the Canadian dollar’s persistent
strength, a loss of competitiveness and weaker growth in the
U.S., Europe and  emerging markets , the bank said. Exports are in
the slowest recovery since after World War II and won’t return
to levels seen before the last recession until the start of
2014, the bank said.  Europe’s economy will probably contract in the last three
quarters of this year with weakness seen in countries such as
 Greece  spreading to so-called core countries, the Bank of Canada
said. The bank reduced its growth profile for the U.S. economy,
saying the recovery will be limited by a weak labor market and
the need for governments to curb deficits.  Bond Yields  Canada’s benchmark 10-year bond yield dropped to a record
low this week on demand for the safest assets amid speculation
the  U.S. economy  is slowing. The Canadian dollar gained 0.1
percent to 1.0109 per  U.S. dollar  at 1:47 p.m. in Toronto, while
Canadian  stocks  gained for a fourth day.  The bank’s forecast assumes the Canadian dollar will trade
at about 98 U.S. cents through 2014, compared with an April
assumption of 101 U.S. cents. The central bank also said it’s
assuming U.S. politicians will avoid a sudden mix of tax
increases and spending cuts -- dubbed a “fiscal cliff” --after
elections later this year, while Europe’s debt crisis will be
contained.  Carney also spoke today about reports of possible
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor,
calling them “deeply troubling.”  There is “a possibility” Libor can’t be “fixed” and any
solution may be on a currency-by-currency basis, he said. In
Canada, Carney said he hasn’t seen any evidence of manipulation,
adding that the central bank’s role has been limited to
providing “technical assistance” to the Commissioner of
Competition’s investigation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  