-- Barclays Sees Grain Surge Sparking High Food-Costs Wave
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-07-18T16:50:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/barclays-sees-grain-surge-sparking-high-food-costs-wave.html
The recent surge in grain and
soybeans may spur a “third wave” of food inflation, following
global price shocks that incited civil unrest in  developing
countries  in 2008 and 2011,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  said.  Dry weather in the U.S. and the  Black Sea region , a poor
start to the Indian monsoon and the possibility of emerging El
Nino conditions suggest there is “significant price upside
ahead” for agricultural products, especially for wheat, corn
and soybeans, Barclays analysts  Kevin Norrish  and Sudakshina Unnikrishnan said in a report e-mailed today. Corn has surged
more than 50 percent since mid-June on the Chicago Board of
Trade, while wheat is up 40 percent and soybeans rose 21
percent.  Countries such as  Russia , Ukraine or Kazakhstan may
introduce trade restrictions to ensure domestic supplies,
Norrish and Unnikrishnan wrote. In the 2010-11 season, Russia
banned grain exports for about 10 months and Ukraine limited
shipments following drought, sending Chicago wheat prices up 47
percent.  “Watch out for the reintroduction of trade restrictions
and/or a surge in import demand,” Norrish and Unnikrishnan
wrote. “Export bans exacerbated each of the past two waves of
food price inflation, though no such actions have been taken
yet.”  Extreme Drought  Global  food prices  tracked by the  United Nations  have
dropped 15 percent since reaching a record in February 2011, and
are 10 percent below a high set in June 2008. Wheat, soybeans
and corn are best performing commodities this year on the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 raw materials. The GSCI’s
agriculture index is up 16 percent this year, while the MSCI
All- Country World (ACWV)  Index of equities gained 4.5 percent.  Moderate-to-extreme drought covered 55 percent of the
contiguous U.S. at the end of June, the largest area since 1956,
the National Climatic Data Center said yesterday. The country is
the world’s biggest exporter of corn, wheat and soybeans. The
U.S Department of Agriculture slashed its corn harvest outlook
by 12 percent on July 11 to 12.97 billion bushels.  Government downgrades to yield estimates “are not over
yet,” Norrish and Unnikrishnan wrote today. Soybeans also may
be “much more vulnerable to further supply shortfalls” because
drought hurt production in the past season in  South America ,
while  China ’s demand remains robust, they said.  Food Riots  Inflation in food costs triggered more than 60 riots
worldwide from 2007 to 2009, according to the U.S. State
Department. In 2011, high food prices in part led to unrest that
toppled governments in Tunisia and Egypt, the world’s biggest
wheat importer.  This year, corn importers in some Asian countries and large
wheat users in the  Middle East  and North Africa “may soon be
forced to buy” after holding off purchases recently in hopes
prices would fall, Norrish and Unnikrishnan said. Still, global
grain stockpiles are more ample than they were in the 2007-08
season, which may ease some pressure on prices, they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  