-- Barclays’s Absa Goes From First to Worst Under Ramos
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-07-19T12:38:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/barclays-absa-goes-from-first-to-worst-after-exodus-under-ramos.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ’s  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  has
gone from being South Africa’s best-performing bank stock to its
worst after an exodus of executives, slowing income and lower
profit this year under Chief Executive Officer  Maria Ramos .  Absa, based in Johannesburg, posted the lowest returns on
the six-member  FTSE/JSE Africa Banks Index (JBNKS)  between March 2009,
when Ramos was appointed, and the end of the second quarter this
year, according to Bloomberg data. In the prior five years, Absa
ranked top among the four largest banks, returning 78 percent.  While rivals  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK)  and  FirstRand Ltd. (FSR) 
are boosting lending, Absa’s market share in South Africa fell
to 23 percent in the year through May, from 25 percent a year
earlier. Net interest income growth, the difference between the
revenue generated from assets and expenses, was the  lowest  among
its peers in 2011. Since the appointment of Ramos, a former CEO
of state-owned railway and ports operator Transnet SOC Ltd., at
least 12 senior executives have resigned, including chairwoman
 Gill Marcus  and deputy CEO Louis von Zeuner.  “On the trend so far, she hasn’t done well,” Kokkie Kooyman, head of Sanlam Investment Management Global, Absa’s
sixth-largest shareholder, said in a telephone interview. “It
generally is very short-sighted to get rid of experience.”  Absa surprised investors on June 26 after saying first-half
earnings before one-time items fell as much as 10 percent in the
six months through June because of rising bad loans, causing the
stock to post its biggest fall in a decade. The bank also said
asset and revenue growth this year would be “muted.”  Not ‘Dependent’  “No organization is dependent on one or two people and
Absa is no different,” Ramos, who is married to former South
African finance minister  Trevor Manuel , said yesterday in a
telephone interview from Johannesburg. “No one focuses on the
people who have joined us and who are strong and competent and
able and who have been part of the succession planning.”  The bank’s revenue increased 5 percent last year, less than
its three largest rivals, to 24.43 billion rand. Absa competes
with Standard, FirstRand and  Old Mutual Plc (OML) ’s  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)   “Absa’s revenue growth has been non-existent and its lack
of any risk appetite is concerning,” Johann Scholtz, head of
research at Johannesburg-based Afrifocus Securities, said in an
July 16 interview. “I don’t know why Absa hasn’t exploited its
primary bank client base.”  First Recession  Still, when Ramos, 53, took over at Absa in 2009,  South
Africa  was in its first recession in 17 years and the global
economy was in a slump. She has been named by Forbes and Fortune
magazines as one of the top 100 most powerful women in business
and said in February that profit last year increased 19 percent
to 9.67 billion rand. She also boosted its final  dividend ,
increasing last year’s total payout 50 percent to 6.84 rand (84
cents) a share.  Ramos needs to experience a full boom and a bust cycle at
the bank and until that happens “she should be given the
benefit of the doubt,” Faizal Moolla, an analyst at Avior
Research in  Cape Town , said. “Maria needs to adjust the cost
base more rapidly and aggressively which might involve more
retrenchments. She also needs to address advances growth which
is lagging behind peers and negatively impacting the top line.”  Ramos joined Transnet in 2003 and oversaw a reorganization
that included a return to profitability and the disposal of
units outside rail, port and pipeline operations. Born in
Lisbon,  Portugal , Ramos holds a masters degree in economics from
the University of  London  and spent 10 years working for a unit
of FirstRand before helping to formulate the ANC’s economic
policies in the run up to South Africa’s first all-race
elections in 1994.  Absa Purchase  Barclays, the U.K.’s No. 2 bank, bought 54 percent of Absa
in July 2005 for 32.8 billion rand ($4 billion). At the time,
Barclays planned to sell its African operations in more than 10
countries to Absa to make the merged entity the continent’s
leading bank. Since then, Absa declined to buy Barclays’s
African businesses and sold two African assets. Absa now
operates only in Mozambique and  Tanzania  outside South Africa.  Absa’s origins can be traced to 1933 when a banking group
was created to give Afrikaners access to capital in an economy
dominated by English-speaking whites.  Barclays CEO  Robert Diamond , who resigned on July 3 after
regulators fined the U.K. bank 290 million pounds for attempting
to manipulate the London interbank offered rate, sought to boost
the lender’s profitability by combining Absa and Barclays’s
products and customer bases across 14 African countries under
the bank’s so-called “One Africa” strategy.  ‘Strategy Reiterated’  “The Africa strategy has again been reiterated and
supported by both the Barclays executive committee and the
board,” Ramos said. “The ‘One Africa’ strategy remains very
much top of the agenda.”  “The closer integration of Absa with Barclays was
something  Bob Diamond  was pushing so now the uncertainty is a
concern,” Afrifocus’s Scholtz said. Barclays is unlikely to
reconsider its investment in Absa “but the possibility will
continue to feed into Absa’s share price,” he said.  Absa is the only South African bank stock to have declined
in the year to date. The share price plunged 8.3 percent to
143.50 rand after the June 26 trading statement which had
prompted investors to question why the bank had underestimated
bad debt levels. It gained 0.4 percent to 139.45 rand as of 2:30
p.m. in Johannesburg trading, having lost more than 12 billion
rand of its market value in the past three weeks.  ‘Rerate Substantially’  “If management realizes the value of the assets, Absa can
rerate substantially,” Scholtz said. “Versus the other banks
it’s trading at the widest discount in years.”  Absa, on a historical  price earnings  basis, is trading at
the cheapest in five years relative to South  Africa ’s banks
index. Forecasts show analysts expect it to get cheaper still.  “Management credibility is now at the forefront of most
people’s minds,” Greg Saffy, banks analyst at RMB Morgan
Stanley in Johannesburg, said in a July 16 interview. “We need
to see a clear strategy and an execution of that strategy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  