-- Bernanke Outlines Range of Options for Additional Easing
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-07-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bernanke-outlines-range-of-options-for-additional-easing.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  outlined options to ease policy further in case the
flagging economic recovery fails to lower unemployment.  Easing tools include further purchases of Treasuries and
mortgage-backed securities, and altering the Fed’s language on
the outlook for  interest rates , Bernanke told the Senate Banking
Committee in  Washington  yesterday. Another option is to use the
so-called discount window for direct lending to banks.  “That’s a range of things that we could do,” Bernanke
said. “Each one of them has costs and benefits, and that’s an
important part of the calculation.”  Bernanke and his colleagues on the  Federal Open Market
Committee  meet in two weeks to continue debating whether further
action is needed to reduce  joblessness  stuck above 8 percent
since February 2009. Recent economic data shows the recovery is
cooling, with consumer retail sales in June falling for a third
consecutive month when economists had forecast an increase.  “We haven’t really come to a specific choice at this
point, but we are looking for ways to address the weakness in
the economy should more action be needed to promote a sustained
recovery in the labor market,” Bernanke said. He resumes his
semi-annual testimony before the House Financial Services
Committee at 10 a.m. today.  Stocks rallied, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index adding
0.7 percent to 1,363.67 at the close of trading in  New York .
Equities initially fell as Bernanke’s prepared testimony
provided no specific plans for boosting growth, then recovered
as he signaled in answering questions that he’s concerned about
the economic recovery. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
rose to 1.5 percent from 1.47 percent late on July 16.  Action Triggers  Policy makers are “concerned about the economy, but
haven’t yet reached a decisive conclusion as to whether the
weakness we’re seeing now will persist,” said  Michael Feroli ,
chief economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York and a former
Fed economist. “Everything Bernanke said made it seem like
either a failure in the  unemployment rate  to decline or an
increase in deflation risk is going to be what triggers
action.”  Bernanke’s remarks yesterday were his first since the Labor
Department reported on July 6 that employers added 80,000 jobs
to payrolls in June, fewer than economists forecast, while the
jobless rate was unchanged at 8.2 percent.  “It’s very important that we see sustained progress in the
labor market and avoid deflation risk,” Bernanke said. “Those
are the things we’ll be looking at as the committee meets later
this month and later this summer.”  Bernanke came under pressure from Senators of both parties,
with Republican  Jim DeMint  of  South Carolina  saying the Fed’s
low-rate policies had deprived savers and retirees of $1
trillion in interest income, and New York Democrat  Charles Schumer  urging him to do more to reduce unemployment.  Budget Deficits  Schumer said there’s little prospect of a further fiscal
boost for the economy as lawmakers seek to reduce budget
deficits.  “I’m afraid the Fed is the only game in town,” he said.
“And I would urge you to take whatever actions you think would
be most helpful in supporting a stronger economic recovery.”  “We will act in an apolitical, nonpartisan manner to do
what’s necessary for the economy,” Bernanke said. “We have
said we’re prepared to take further action. The complication, of
course, is that we are dealing with less conventional tools and
we have to make assessments about their efficacy and whatever
costs and risks may be associated with them.”  One risk is that Fed policy makers may open themselves to
charges that they are making decisions normally reserved for
fiscal policy with purchases of housing debt, a step that could
be seen as favoring one sector of the economy over others.  Credit Programs  “When the Fed engages in targeted credit programs that
seek to alter the allocation of credit across markets, I believe
it is engaging in fiscal policy and has breached the traditional
boundaries established between the fiscal authorities and the
central bank,” Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said
in a Feb. 24 speech.  The Fed lowered  interest rates  to zero in December of 2008
and initiated two rounds of large-scale asset purchases totaling
$2.3 trillion. In the first round the central bank purchased
Treasuries and housing debt, while it limited purchases to
Treasuries in the second round.  Bernanke’s reference yesterday to the discount window may
show he is considering a plan to finance new  mortgage loans  with
direct credits from the Fed, said Roberto Perli, managing
director in charge of policy research at International Strategy
& Investment Group Inc. in Washington and a former senior staff
economist in the Fed’s Division of Monetary Affairs.  Stirring Opposition  Such a move would also stir opposition, said  Sarah Binder ,
a senior fellow at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington.  “My sense is that Republicans will be highly critical of
the Fed if it pursues additional stimulus in any form,” she
said. “Venturing into mortgage markets beyond buying mortgage-
backed securities seems to be a step too far into fiscal policy
for Fed critics.”  Last month, the FOMC decided to extend to the end of the
year its program, known as Operation Twist, to lengthen
maturities of Treasury assets on the Fed’s balance sheet.  The Fed’s actions have helped keep the yield on 10-year
Treasuries near record lows. The rate on a 30-year fixed
mortgage fell to a record 3.56 percent on July 12.  “It is a very slow track of recovery with therefore slow
growth in employment,” former Fed chairman  Paul Volcker  said in
an interview on Bloomberg Television. The Fed “hasn’t got any
magic bullets to solve all of these real problems.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  