-- Bernanke Says Fed Can Remove ‘Punch Bowl,’ Curb Inflation
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2012-07-18T21:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bernanke-says-fed-will-take-away-the-punch-bowl-when-needed.html
Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  sought to assure lawmakers the Fed can limit inflation
while providing record stimulus and won’t allow consumer prices
to rise in return for faster economic growth.  “It will be a similar pattern to what we’ve seen in
previous episodes where the Fed cut  rates , provided support for
the recovery, and when the recovery reached a point of takeoff
where it could support itself on its own, then the Fed pulled
back, took away the punch bowl,” Bernanke told the House
Financial Services Committee today in Washington.  Bernanke, on his second day of testimony to Congress,
responded to lawmakers who questioned his ability to control
inflation after cutting the Fed’s key interest rate almost to
zero and expanding its balance sheet to a record $2.87 trillion
in a bid to boost growth.  “There is so much money out there that this thing is going
to really go and inflation is going to be a huge problem,” said
Representative Stephen Fincher, a Republican from  Tennessee .  Republican Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas 
questioned why the “greatest monetary and fiscal stimulus
thrown at an economy in our history” has failed to reduce
unemployment and boost growth, and whether the economy suffered
a “profound failure of monetary policy” because of the Fed’s
unprecedented actions.  Bernanke disagreed that “there has been no progress”
since the near “collapse” of the economy in 2008 and 2009.  “It’s true that the recovery has been slower than we would
have liked, but clearly we have made progress in unemployment
and in  job creation ,” Bernanke said. “Financial crises lead to
recessions that are slower to mend.”  Inflation Outlook  Bernanke, in prepared remarks, said economic growth is
slowing and inflation will probably remain at or below the Fed’s
2 percent objective after energy prices reversed their gains
from earlier this year.  “Inflation seems to be well in check,” Bernanke said.  Representative  Patrick McHenry , a republican from North
Carolina, asked whether it would be “desirable” to tolerate
inflation of 3 percent in order to spur the economy.  The Federal Open Market Committee couldn’t boost its 2
percent target for price increases “without losing control of
the inflation process,” Bernanke said. “I’m very skeptical that
it would increase confidence among businesses and households and
increase economic activity.”  Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago President  Charles Evans  has
called on the Fed to commit to low  interest rates  until the
 unemployment rate  falls below 7 percent or inflation rises above
3 percent.  Financial Markets  Bernanke, without referring to Evans, said a higher
inflation goal “would create a lot of problems in financial
markets.” He added, “I don’t think that’s a strategy that has
a lot of support on the  Federal Open Market Committee .”  The gauge watched by the Fed, the personal-consumption-
expenditures price index, climbed 1.5 percent for the 12 months
through May and has averaged a 1.8 percent annual increase since
the recession ended in June 2009.  The Fed said today the economy expanded at a “modest to
moderate” pace in June and early July, as retail sales and
manufacturing cooled in some regions. Manufacturing “continued
to expand slowly in most districts,” employment “improved at a
tepid pace” and “inflation was modest across most areas,” the
central bank said, citing reports from its 12 district banks in
its Beige Book survey.  ‘Sharp Drop’  “The sharp drop in crude  oil prices  in the past few months
has brought inflation down,” Bernanke said, repeating written
remarks to a Senate panel yesterday.  Fed officials forecast that inflation will range from 1.2
percent to 1.7 percent in 2012. Crude oil futures have declined
more than 9 percent this year after posting a gain of as much as
11 percent in February.  Oil rose for a sixth day and touched the highest intraday
level since May 30 as U.S. housing starts increased more than
forecast and gasoline inventories fell. Crude for August
delivery rose 0.7 percent to settle at $89.87 a barrel on the
 New York Mercantile Exchange .  The Beige Book survey said “price pressures were described
as easing in  New York , Philadelphia, Atlanta, and  San Francisco 
as energy costs declined” while “wage pressures remained
modest.”  “The  U.S. economy  has continued to recover, but economic
activity appears to have decelerated somewhat during the first
half of this year,” Bernanke said. He said the Fed is
“prepared to take further action as appropriate to promote a
stronger economic recovery.”  More Action  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.7 percent to
1,372.78 as of 4:14 p.m. in New York amid better-than-estimated
earnings.  The yield  on the 10-year Treasury note remained near a
record low, declining two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 1.49 percent.  New U.S. home construction rose in June to the highest
level in almost four years, indicating the residential real
estate market is strengthening even as other parts of the
economy cool.  Housing starts  rose 6.9 percent to a 760,000 annual pace
after a revised 711,000 rate in May that was faster than
initially estimated, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 745,000 rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  