-- Big East Conference Drops Lawsuit Over Texas Christian
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-07-19T16:54:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/big-east-conference-drops-lawsuit-over-texas-christian.html
The  Big East  Conference ended its
lawsuit accusing Texas Christian University of reneging on an
agreement to join the college sports organization when it
instead signed on with the Big 12.  The organization, whose 16 members include  Rutgers
University , Georgetown University and Villanova University,
dismissed the case with prejudice, meaning it can’t bring a new
lawsuit on the same subject, according to a filing yesterday in
federal court in Washington.  Benjamin Block, Big East’s attorney, didn’t give a reason
for the dismissal in the filing. He declined to comment in an e-
mail.  “The university is pleased with the amicable resolution of
this matter,” Lisa Albert, a spokeswoman for Texas Christian,
said in an e-mail yesterday.  Big East said in a complaint filed in federal court in
Washington in June that Texas Christian committed to pay
$5 million if it failed to follow through with the membership
agreement reached on Nov. 29, 2010. Texas Christian said at that
time the lawsuit was premature and it hoped for an amicable
resolution.  The school, based in Fort Worth, Texas, was slated to join
the conference this July and compete in 20 sports starting with
the 2012-2013 season. In October, Texas Christian announced that
it had changed its mind about the Big East and was accepting an
invitation from the Big 12 effective July 1.  The Big 12 includes the  University of Texas , University of
Oklahoma, Baylor University, Oklahoma State University and Texas
Tech University.  The case is The Big East Conference v.  Texas Christian
University , 21-cv-00953, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia (Washington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  