-- Health Law Birth-Control Mandate Survives States’ Suit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-07-18T16:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/birth-control-mandate-survives-states-suit.html
Seven U.S. states lost their federal
court bid to block a government mandate requiring religious
organizations to offer their employees insurance coverage for
 birth control .  U.S. District Judge Warren K. Urbom in Lincoln, Nebraska,
ruled yesterday that Catholic schools, organizations and
individuals cited by the states lack standing to challenge the
rule.  Even if they did, the judge said, the contraceptive
requirements are “not being forced against non-exempted
religious organizations, and the rule is currently undergoing a
process of amendment to accommodate these organizations,” Urbom
wrote. The states that sued “face no direct and immediate harm,
and one can only speculate whether the plaintiffs will ever feel
any effects from the rule,” he said.  Nebraska Attorney General Jon Bruning filed the complaint
in February, claiming that the requirement violates free
exercise of religion and freedom of speech rights. Florida,
 Michigan ,  Ohio , Oklahoma,  South Carolina  and Texas joined the
case.  ‘Shell Game’  “Yesterday’s decision completely disregards the federal
government’s continued shell game when it comes to this rule,”
Bruning said today in an e-mailed statement. “Essentially, this
decision asks millions of Americans to watch and wait for their
religious liberties to be violated.”  He said he will consult with the other plaintiffs to
determine their next move.  The mandate is part of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act, which President  Barack Obama  signed into
law in 2010 and the core of which was upheld in a U.S. Supreme
Court ruling last month. The justices, voting 5-4, said Congress
has the power to make Americans carry insurance or pay a
penalty.  The seven states that sued the  U.S. Department of Health 
and Human Services over the birth-control mandate claimed the
regulation would coerce religious organizations and social
service agencies among other groups to “subsidize” different
forms of contraception against their religious beliefs.  The case is Nebraska v. U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, 12-cv-03035, U.S. District Court, District of Nebraska
(Lincoln).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  