-- BlackRock ETF Dominance Slips as Vanguard Attracts Money
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-07-18T22:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/blackrock-second-quarter-net-income-falls-11-on-assets.html
For years,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  has
struggled to profit from an investor preference for actively
managed bond funds that has largely eluded the world’s largest
asset manager. Now Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink is
facing a new headache.  BlackRock, the world’s biggest provider of exchange-traded
funds, is losing market share in the ETF business to Vanguard
Group Inc., the company best known for its low-cost  index funds .
BlackRock’s U.S. market share declined by 1.4 percent this year
to about 41 percent as of June 30, according to a report by
 State Street Global Advisors . Vanguard, the third largest ETF
manager after No. 2  State Street Corp. (STT) , had a market share
increase of 1.7 percent to 18 percent.  “We are not happy with our market share in the second
quarter in U.S. equity ETFs,” Fink said in a telephone
interview today. “You saw risk off, even in ETFs, you had many
flows into what I would call the commoditized ETFs, the large,
index products, and Vanguard has taken a lot of the share of
those flows in those products.”  BlackRock has failed to benefit from almost $750 billion in
industrywide deposits into actively managed bond funds since
2009 as investors put money with top-performing rivals such as
 Bill Gross ’s Pacific Investment Management Co. and more recently
with  Jeffrey Gundlach ’s DoubleLine Capital LP. On the ETF side,
Vanguard had attracted almost twice as much in investor deposits
as BlackRock this year as of June 30, according to data from
State Street.  Active Bonds  The firm didn’t benefit like some of its competitors from
deposits into active bond funds following weak performance in
2008, Fink said during a conference call with analysts and
investors in January 2011. Investors have pulled about $20
billion from active bond funds since 2011, according to
quarterly earnings reports.  Fink said today in a conference call with analysts that
BlackRock’s performance at fixed-income funds has rebounded and
that the firm has hired managers to help expand into global
bonds. He also said the firm has a plan to address iShares’
strategy in coming months, without elaborating. BlackRock’s
active taxable fixed-income products are beating 71 percent of
peers over the past year and 81 percent over the past three
years, Fink said.  BlackRock acquired iShares when it bought  Barclays Global
Investors  in December 2009. In the three months ended June 30,
investors withdrew about $5.5 billion from BlackRock’s iShares
stock ETFs and deposited $11.7 billion into its iShares bond
ETFs. That’s the lowest combined level of deposits since the
fourth quarter of 2010, when the company started reporting the
numbers separately for iShares.  Profit Fell  The company’s fixed-income ETF deposits for the second
quarter as well as year-to-date through June 30 represent more
than 50 percent of the industry’s flows, said Mark Lake, a
spokesman for BlackRock.  BlackRock said today that second-quarter profit fell 11
percent as slumping markets worldwide eroded fees for overseeing
client assets. Net income decreased to $554 million, or $3.08 a
share, from $619 million, or $3.21, a year earlier. BlackRock’s
net income compared with the $3 a share average  estimate  of
seven analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The firm’s assets fell 3 percent to $3.56 trillion, as
market losses totaled $76.2 billion and client redemptions were
$29.4 billion during the quarter.  Shares Decline  “Active equity will continue to be a challenge for them
and others,” Robert Lee, an analyst with Keefe, Bruyette &
Woods Inc. in  New York , said in an interview before the earnings
were announced. ETFs “will be a growing source of assets,”
said Lee, who rates BlackRock shares outperform.  BlackRock fell 0.6 percent to close at $175.05 in New York.
The  shares  are down 1.8 percent for this year, compared with the
9.4 percent gain in the 20-member S&P index of asset managers
and custody banks.  Clients pulled a combined $6.5 billion from BlackRock’s
active stock and bond funds in the quarter. Excluding the impact
of the planned disposition of advisory portfolios, which reduced
assets by $31.6 billion, the firm said long-term net deposits
were $3.7 billion.  BlackRock’s investment advisory fees fell 5.2 percent to $2
billion compared with a year earlier. Performance fees, earned
by funds for beating certain benchmarks, decreased 18 percent to
$41 million. BlackRock’s revenue fell 5 percent from a year
earlier to $2.2 billion.  Maiden Lane  Revenue for BlackRock Solutions, the unit that advises
financial institutions and governments on hard-to-value assets,
increased 13 percent from a year earlier as the unit added new
assignments and clients who use the Aladdin investment-
management system increased assets.  BlackRock, which was selected by the U.S. in 2008 to
oversee tainted holdings at the peak of the financial crisis,
disposed of advisory assets for investors, mainly related to
liquidations of former portfolios held by Bear Stearns Cos. and
 American International Group Inc. (AIG) , known as Maiden Lane I and
Maiden Lane III, the firm said.  “On the one hand BlackRock’s strategic positioning is
strong,” Citigroup Inc.’s  William Katz , who’s based in New
York, wrote in a July 9 note to clients. “On the other hand,
flow prospects are mixed and investors continue to question
margins and business continuity given seemingly elevated
employee turnover.”  ‘Robust’ Bench  Fink, who has built the firm through purchases of rivals,
is seeking to expand by attracting investor deposits as the
firm’s acquisition spree comes to an end. That’s gotten harder
as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis and slowing economic growth
worldwide have prompted investors to pull money out of actively
managed equity funds.  Susan L. Wagner, who led BlackRock’s growth by overseeing
purchases including the fund units of Merrill Lynch & Co. and
Barclays Plc, retired last month, signaling that BlackRock will
rely on internal growth for future expansion. Wagner will join
BlackRock’s board of directors in October and will continue to
serve as a director of DSP BlackRock Investment Managers, the
firm’s joint venture in  India .  Fink said on the conference call today that BlackRock has a
“robust” bench of executives and that the firm is committed to
change as it tries to improve its business. He said the turnover
rate is less than 1 percent for managing directors and about 4
percent firmwide, compared with the industry average of about 10
percent.  Wagner’s departure was announced the same month that  Robert
Doll , former chief equity strategist, said he was leaving and
Daniel Rice, who helped manage five energy and natural resource
mutual funds, stepped down to avoid the appearance of a conflict
of interest. Philipp Hildebrand, the former head of the Swiss
central bank, will join BlackRock in October to help expand
relationships with institutional clients overseas, the firm said
in June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in New York 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  