-- BMW’s Mexican Landlord Favoring Equity to Bank Loans: Mortgages
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-07-18T15:06:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bmw-s-mexican-landlord-favoring-equity-to-bank-loans-mortgages.html
Mexican real-estate developers are
turning to stock markets and private equity investors for
funding as commercial lending fails to keep up with demand, and
property companies expand to serve cross-border manufacturers.  Corp. Inmobiliaria Vesta SAB, whose tenants include BMW,
the world’s largest luxury carmaker, and chocolate-maker Nestle
AG, is set to become Mexico’s first publicly traded industrial
park operator with an initial public offering tomorrow,
following last year’s IPO of shopping center developer  Fibra Uno
Administracion SA (FUNO11) , Mexico’s first real-estate investment trust.
Vesta aims to raise as much as 4.1 billion pesos ($310 million),
according to a prospectus on the stock exchange website.  Mexican real estate companies are benefiting as businesses
pour across the 1,800-mile border with the U.S. to take
advantage of a four-year slide in the peso that has driven down
labor costs. Foreign companies pledged $5.3 billion of
investment in the first four months of the year, the most since
at least 2007, the  Economy Ministry  said.  While bank lending has grown by about 14 percent this year,
“banks haven’t fully developed credit products that start from
the ground up” for businesses, said Eduardo Torres, an
economist tracking the industry for Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA’s Mexico unit, speaking by phone from Mexico City.
“Housing growth got way ahead of our urban infrastructure
needs. That opened a gap that has to be closed.”  Development, Acquisitions  Vesta (VESTA*) , based in Mexico City, said it plans to use the cash
raised from the IPO to develop industrial parks and distribution
centers as well as purchase real estate.  The shares will be priced in a range of 19 pesos to 21
pesos, the prospectus said. The median price suggests a
capitalization rate of 9 percent, based on projected net
operating income for 2013, according to a person familiar with
the transaction, who declined to be named because the company
forecasts aren’t public.  Industrial sector real-estate investments in the U.S. have
average cap rates of 7.7 percent as of May, according to Real
Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-base real-estate research
firm. Cap rates are a measure of investment return that falls as
prices rise.  Credit Suisse Group AG and Banco Santander SA are managing
the sale.  Mexican developers and infrastructure companies have also
boosted financing through so-called development capital
certificates, which allow investors to participate in private
equity-type projects similar to special purpose acquisition
companies in the U.S.  Six IPOs  The Vesta IPO would be the first in Mexico since
petrochemical producer  Alpek SAB (ALPEKA)  sold shares in April. While
considered an IPO, Alpek was carved out from Alfa SAB, which
already traded on the Mexican bourse. Before that, the last
company to sell shares in Mexico was lender Banregio Grupo
Financiero SAB in July 2011.  Mexico has had six IPOs in the past two years, compared
with 18 in  Brazil , which has an economy only about twice the
size of Mexico’s. Half the Mexican offerings have subsequently
lost value, compared with less than a quarter of the Brazilian
companies that went public.  Among the Mexican IPOs in the past 24 months, REIT Fibra
Uno Administracion, whose properties include shopping centers
near the Mayan Riviera beaches of southern  Mexico , has posted
the best returns to date, climbing 41 percent in the period.  Equity Options  Stock sales are “an option that a lot of real-estate
developers are going to start exploring,” said Ramon Ortiz, an
analyst at Corp. Actinver SAB in Mexico City, who has a buy
recommendation on Fibra Uno. “We could see more of this. It’s
just getting started.”  Vesta is a “high risk” investment because it’s entering a
developing sector on the bourse and listing shares after a drop
in profit, said Aldo Miranda, a trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa
SA in Mexico City.  Vesta’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization -- a measure of profit known as Ebitda -- fell 4.2
percent in 2011 to $40.4 million.  “They still have a lot to prove,” Miranda said in a July
17 telephone interview. “What’s the rush? You should go public
in your company’s best moment.”  Vesta plans to prioritize development of its “made-to-
order” industrial park business. Its aerospace-focused property
in the central state of Queretaro counts among its tenants
Bombardier Inc., the world’s largest maker of  business jets , and
Meggitt Plc, a maker of engine sensors, wheels and brakes.  Foreign Investment  Foreign direct investment in Mexico will total about $22.8
billion in 2012, the most since 2008, according to forecasts by
HSBC Holdings Plc.  German automaker  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  runs a
training center for dealers out of a Vesta property in Mexico
state, which borders the capital Mexico City.  Vesta said 89 percent of its contracts, equivalent to 72
percent of its income from rent, are denominated in dollars,
saddling the company with exchange-rate exposure while
protecting its foreign customers. While it has pared losses this
year, the  Mexican peso  is down 11 percent in the past 12 months
against the dollar, the worst performance in  Latin America  after
the Brazilian real. The peso is down 22 percent in the past four
years.  Vesta operated 85 industrial parks and distribution centers
as of the end of last year, representing more than a million
square meters in rental space. Its parks span central Mexico to
the U.S. border in the state of Chihuahua.  BBVA’s Torres said the growing availability of equity
financing for developers is a sign of maturation in the market.
He said average commercial bank mortgage rates should decline
because of increasing competition.  “A lot of the development in the mortgage market in the
last few years has taken place thanks to greater competition,”
Torres said. “At the end of the day, that means better
conditions for those seeking financing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
Rob Urban at 
 robprag@bloomberg.net  