-- BNY Mellon Profit Declines 37% as Low Rates Hurt Revenue
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-07-18T20:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bny-mellon-profit-declines-37-as-low-rates-hurt-revenue.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the
world’s largest custody bank, said second-quarter earnings fell
37 percent as low interest rates and declining stock markets cut
into revenue and the bank settled a lawsuit.  Net income declined to $466 million, or 39 cents a share,
from $735 million, or 59 cents, a year earlier, the New York-
based bank said today in a statement. Earnings were reduced by
$212 million, or 18 cents a share, for a previously announced
settlement of a lawsuit over losses tied to Sigma Finance Inc.,
the operator of a structured investment vehicle that collapsed
in 2008.  “The macro environment for all the custody banks is
challenging,”  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets  in Portland, Maine, said in a telephone interview.
“That said, Bank of New York put up better numbers than its
competitors.”  BNY Mellon, led by Chief Executive Officer  Gerald Hassell ,
has cut jobs and set a target to save as much as $700 million by
2015 through operational improvements, as the  Federal Reserve ’s
decision to keep rates exceptionally low through at least late
2014 hurts revenue at custody banks.  State Street Corp. (STT) , the
third-largest custody bank, yesterday agreed to buy the hedge-
fund administration unit of Goldman Sachs Group Inc. for $550
million to boost growth as revenue and assets fell.  Low Rates  Low rates force custody banks to waive fees on money-market
funds, erode yields on its portfolio and reduce revenue from
 securities lending .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  said this month that the Fed won’t move on its benchmark
 interest rate  until the middle of 2015 as the economy slows.  Declining stock prices also cut into revenue because
custody banks earn a fee based on the assets they oversee and
manage. The  MSCI ACWI Index (MXWD)  of global stocks fell 8.7 percent in
the 12 months ended June 30.  BNY Mellon fell 0.1 percent to close at $21.69 in New York.
It has gained 8.9 percent this year, compared with a 9.4 percent
increase for the 20-member Standard & Poor’s index of custody
banks and asset managers.  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-largest U.S. independent
custody bank, today announced an 18 percent increase in second-
quarter profit, to $179.6 million, helped by new business and a
reduction in compensation expenses. The Chicago-based firm fell
1.8 percent to $46.24, after earnings missed estimates. It has
climbed 17 percent this year.  State Street  At State Street, second-quarter profit on an operating
basis rose 2.3 percent to $494 million, or $1.01 a share, after
the firm sold investment securities for a gain. Revenue declined
1.9 percent to $2.43 billion on lower assets and fees, sending
the shares down by the most in seven months yesterday.  BNY Mellon’s assets under custody rose 1.9 percent from the
previous quarter to a record $27.1 trillion, while assets under
management decreased 0.7 percent to $1.3 trillion.  Custody banks including BNY Mellon have talked about
offsetting the profit squeeze by raising the prices they charge
clients, said  Richard Bove , an analyst with Rochdale Securities
LLC in Lutz, Florida. Those efforts may not come to pass.  “The price competition in this business continues to be
intense,” Bove said in a telephone interview. Banks such as New
York-based  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  are trying to expand in the custody field, he said.  Service Fees  Investment service fees dropped 5.4 percent from a year
earlier, the result of higher money market fee waivers and the
sale in the fourth quarter of the Shareowner Services business.
Investment-management fees rose 2.3 percent, driven by higher
performance fees and $26 billion in long-term deposits. Foreign
exchange revenue dropped 15 percent on lower trading volumes.  BNY Mellon  said in November it plans to save as much as
$700 million before taxes by 2015 through operational
improvements such as consolidating applications, insourcing
software development and combining locations.  The bank said at the time it expected its fee revenue to
grow 3 percent to 5 percent per year from 2012 to 2014,
outpacing a projected 2 percent to 3 percent annual increase in
expenses.  In August, BNY Mellon said it planned to cut 1,500 jobs, or
3 percent of its workforce. State Street and Chicago-based
Northern Trust Corp. have taken similar steps.  BNY Mellon has been sued by several states and the U.S.
Attorney in Manhattan over pricing of foreign-currency trades on
behalf of clients.  Foreign Exchange  The cases center on the pricing of small foreign-exchange
transactions handled automatically on behalf of pension funds, a
service known as standing instruction. The plaintiffs say the
bank misled and overcharged them on standing instruction trades.
BNY Mellon said it acted properly and offered clients
competitive foreign-exchange services.  The bank doesn’t have to face a Virginia lawsuit over the
issue, a state judge ruled in May. Brian Gottstein, a spokesman
for Virginia Attorney General  Ken Cuccinelli , said the court
ruling didn’t absolve the bank of wrongdoing.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors. BNY Mellon also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  