-- BNY Mellon Considering European Deposit Fees After ECB Cut
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n
-- 2012-07-18T15:37:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bny-mellon-considering-european-deposit-fees-after-ecb-cut-1-.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , the
world’s largest custody bank, is considering imposing a charge
for holding client cash in  Europe , after the  European Central
Bank  cut its deposit rate to zero.  The reduction in the ECB’s rate will cost BNY Mellon $20
million to $25 million in the second half, Todd Gibbons, the New
York-based bank’s chief financial officer, said in a telephone
interview. BNY Mellon hasn’t yet decided whether to impose the
charge.  BNY Mellon, along with other money fund managers, this
month restricted deposits into its European money funds, after
the ECB decision left them unable to park cash with the central
bank at a profit. Last year, BNY Mellon said it would impose a
temporary fee for “excess” deposits in the U.S., after the
debate over an extension of the country’s debt ceiling prompted
clients to move assets into cash. The fee was never levied on
clients, Gibbons said.  “Europe is an absolute mess, I can’t describe it any other
way,” BNY Mellon Chief Executive Officer  Gerald Hassell  said
today on a conference call with investors after the bank
released its second-quarter earnings.  Profit Falls  BNY Mellon today reported a 37 percent decline in second-
quarter profit as low  interest rates  and declining stock markets
cut into revenue and the bank settled a lawsuit. The  net
interest margin , the difference between what a bank pays on
deposits and receives on loans and investments, was 1.25 percent
in the quarter, an all-time low, according to Gibbons.  The bank, which earned 39 cents a share in the quarter,
said waiving fees on money funds reduced profits by 4 to 5 cents
a share.  More than half of Europe’s money market funds by assets
have closed because securities they invest in pay negative
returns after the ECB cut interest rates,  Standard & Poor’s  said
earlier this month. Funds with assets totalling 79 billion euros
($97 billion) have closed, out of a pool of 133 billion euros
rated by the New York-based firm, S&P said in a report.  The $2.5 trillion U.S. money fund industry has seen
revenues fall from $12.5 billion in 2008 to $4.7 billion in
2011, according to Crane Data LLC, a research firm based in
Westborough, Massachusetts. Yields that reached 5 percent in
2007 now average about 0.06 percent, President  Peter Crane  said
in a telephone interview today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  