-- BOE Policy Makers Say They May Reassess Rate-Cut Case: Economy
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-07-18T13:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/boe-voted-7-2-as-mpc-signals-rate-cut-case-may-be-reviewed-1-.html
Bank of England  policy makers may
reconsider the case for an interest-rate cut after assessing the
impact of new lending and liquidity measures as  Europe ’s debt
crisis keeps pressure on them to do more to stoke growth.  The Monetary Policy Committee said while the arguments for
and against cutting the  benchmark rate  from the current record
low of 0.5 percent hadn’t changed since June, they may be
reviewed in the coming months, according to the minutes of its
July 4-5 meeting. The MPC voted 7-2 to increase quantitative
easing by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds
at the meeting.  The Bank of England has joined counterparts around the
world in expanding measures to support growth as the threat from
the euro-area turmoil increases. The Bank of  Japan  has opened
the door to buying debt with negative returns, and Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the Fed may take
further action to boost the recovery.  “Central banks are looking to add to their options for
further easing and reevaluate all the tools at their disposal,”
said Chris Scicluna, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets
Europe in  London . “With the exception of Japan, the outlook has
deteriorated markedly across the major economies, and there may
be further weakness in the euro area going into the end of the
year.”  The pound extended its decline against the dollar after the
minutes were published. It fell 0.3 percent to $1.5600 as of
2:02 p.m. in London. Money-market traders added to bets on lower
Bank of England interest rates, pricing in a 25 basis-point cut
as soon as April, according to so-called Sonia rates.  ‘Compelling’  The Bank of England’s decision to expand QE in July came
two months after officials stopped expanding stimulus.  Most U.K. central bank officials felt that the case for
more stimulus was “compelling and stronger than at the previous
meeting,” the minutes said. “There were increasing signs that
the threat of a disorderly resolution of the financial tensions
in the euro area was affecting growth at home.”  In addition to QE, the Bank of England has started a
“Funding for Lending Scheme” to boost credit and recommended
that banks be allowed to tap liquidity buffers to ease credit
strains. It said in the minutes that the impact of these
measures was “potentially significant, but hard to calibrate.”  Rate Assessment  At the July 4-5 meeting, the MPC was unanimous in a
decision to leave its  benchmark rate  unchanged. While it said
cutting the rate had “drawbacks” compared with more QE and the
arguments for and against such a move were the same as in June,
this assessment could change.  “The impact of the FLS and other policy initiatives might,
in time, alter the committee’s assessment of the effectiveness
of such a rate reduction,” the minutes said. “The committee
could review this option again when the impact of the FLS and
other policy initiatives was more readily apparent; that was
unlikely to be for several months.”  Data today showed U.K. unemployment fell to a nine-month
low in the quarter through May as the London Olympics helped to
create jobs. The jobless rate based on International Labor
Organization methods fell to 8.1 percent from 8.2 percent in the
period through April.  Jobless-benefit claims  rose 6,100 in June.
The increase, though larger than the 5,000 median forecast in a
Bloomberg News Survey, was inflated by a benefit-rule change
that took effect May 21.  BOJ Purchases  Separately today, the  Bank of Japan (8301)  scrapped a 0.1 percent
yield floor for government bond purchases and removed the limit
on purchases of securities with maturities of one year or less
in its so-called rinban operation.  The central bank is struggling to buy enough bonds to
execute a stimulus program to strengthen the economy as Europe’s
crisis and a global economic slowdown boost demand for the
government’s debt. It tweaked its stimulus program on July 12
without adding extra money and said that it would buy more
treasury bills. The  overnight rate target  stayed at between zero
and 0.1 percent, unchanged since October 2010.  The BOJ failed to attract enough bids in its rinban
purchases on July 6 for a second time since May, as banks chose
to hang on to the bonds rather than take cash. A six-month
funding operation also didn’t reach its bid goal for a 14th
straight time on July 10.  “It didn’t look good for the BOJ to have a series of
failures in their operations given they have been saying they
are pursuing powerful monetary easing,” said  Mari Iwashita , a
bond strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in  Tokyo .
“Negative yields is an indication of their determination.”  China House Prices  Elsewhere in  Asia  today,  China  reported that new  home
prices  rose in 25 of 70 major cities in June from May,
indicating that economic growth may be supported by a rebound in
the real-estate market.  In the U.S., Bernanke will testify before Congress for a
second day. Policy makers “are looking for ways to address the
weakness in the economy should more action be needed to promote
a sustained recovery in the labor market,” he said yesterday.  The Fed’s Beige Book assessment of economic conditions is
also due today. The residential  property market  may be one of
the bright spots, with a Commerce Department report likely to
show that builders began work on more houses in June than at any
time since October 2008, according to a Bloomberg News survey.  At the Bank of England, policy makers  Spencer Dale  and Ben Broadbent dissented from the majority this month in favor of no
change to the bond-purchase target, saying bank-credit measures
may offset the need for more stimulus via QE.  The central bank said 2012 growth would be “roughly flat”
and it was also “less likely” inflation expectations would
become ingrained in the economy. Data yesterday showed U.K.
inflation unexpectedly slowed to 2.4 percent in June, moving
closer to the central bank’s 2 percent target.  The minutes “suggest a range of future policy
possibilities, although all of them in an easier direction,”
said  David Tinsley , an economist at BNP Paribas in London. In
November, the MPC “could decide to boost plain vanilla QE by
another 50 billion pounds. But if there are signs the funding
for lending scheme is gaining some traction they could instead
lean more in the direction of a cut in  bank rate .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  