-- BofA to Cut Another $3 Billion in Expenses
-- B y   H u g h   S o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-07-18T16:42:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bofa-to-cut-another-3-billion-in-expenses.html
Bank of America Corp. , the second-
biggest U.S. lender, plans to trim $3 billion in annual expenses
from  investment banking , trading and wealth-management units.  The cuts, which are expected to be completed by the middle
of 2015, represent 11 percent of expenses in the targeted areas,
the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank said today in a
 presentation  on its website. The initiatives have already begun,
the lender said, without specifying the number of job cuts,
which are part of a larger effort to reduce costs by $8 billion.  Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, is relying
on expense cuts to improve profit as mortgage losses and
regulation squeeze revenue. The earlier phase of his efficiency
plan, called Project New BAC, targeted $5 billion in costs and
30,000 jobs from retail and back-office operations. Moynihan has
said that the firm won’t achieve his pretax profit goal of $35
billion to $40 billion until  interest rates  rise, the  U.S.
economy  accelerates and costs are brought down.  “We can’t carry these costs in the revenue environment
we’re in,” Moynihan said in a March conference. “Even in an
improved revenue environment, we’re still going to have to be
hard on costs.”  Second-quarter revenue fell to $22 billion, down about 1.4
percent from the first three months of the year, the bank said
today. The stock  dropped  2.2 percent at 12:13 p.m. in  New York 
as the company’s profit report, with net income of $2.46
billion, was marred by record demands for refunds on faulty
mortgages.  Job Reductions  The lender had 275,460  employees  at June 30, compared with
278,688 on March 31 and about 288,000 at the end of last year’s
second quarter. The number of banking centers in the U.S. fell
by 148 in the 12 months ended June 30 to 5,594.  The firm will hire where there are opportunities for
growth, Moynihan said today on a conference call, citing small-
business banking, wealth management and mortgage lending.
Additions in the  international markets  business were scaled back
“because the fees available and the trading processes available
are down,” he said.  The new round of cost cuts will come at a faster rate than
the first phase, Chief Financial Officer  Bruce Thompson  said
today on the call. The $3 billion in savings will probably be
realized at about $1 billion per year, he said.  Moynihan told employees in January that he expected Project
New BAC to eliminate a total of $6 billion to $8 billion a year
in expenses, Bloomberg News reported. The bank said today it’s
on track to realize $1 billion of the cost savings from the
first phase by the end of this year.  Goldman Sachs  Wall Street firms are cutting costs as concern over the
European debt crisis and slower growth in the U.S. and China
crimp revenue from trading and investment banking.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  said this week it plans to cut $500 million of
expenses this year after trimming $1.4 billion since last year.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank  by assets, said
second-quarter profit at its investment bank fell 7 percent from
a year earlier even as it reduced costs 12 percent.  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , the third-biggest U.S. bank, reported a 12 percent drop in
second-quarter earnings and said it lowered total operating
expenses 6 percent.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the biggest U.S. mortgage lender, said
it wouldn’t get quarterly expenses below $11.25 billion as
planned because of greater revenue opportunities. The firm
posted a 17 percent second-quarter profit increase to $4.62
billion as mortgage banking earnings surged almost 80 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  