-- BofA Profit Rebound Marred by $22.7 Billion in Mortgage Claims
-- B y   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-07-18T21:09:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/bofa-posts-quarterly-profit-as-moynihan-takes-aim-at-expenses.html
Bank of America Corp. ’s second-
quarter results were marred by record claims for refunds on
faulty mortgages, casting doubt on whether improvements in the
lender’s real estate operations will last.  A cut in reserves for bad loans helped the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based company swing to a $2.46 billion  profit  from a
record $8.83 billion loss a year earlier as the bank reported
today that fewer borrowers fell behind on payments. At the same
time, the bank said demands for buybacks from mortgage-bond
investors and insurers surged more than $6 billion in three
months to $22.7 billion.  “We don’t think this is done,” said  Paul Miller , an
analyst at FBR Capital Markets and a former  Federal Reserve Bank
of Philadelphia  examiner with a  hold rating  on Bank of America.
“Can they defend themselves and pay only a fraction of that,”
Miller asked, or will claims “continue to come in and just
overwhelm the company?”  Analysts repeatedly questioned top managers including Chief
Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan  during a conference call
today about the demands, including the extent of future losses
and why claims continue to rise on loans made as long as six
years ago during the housing bubble. Moynihan, 52, has already
committed more than $40 billion to resolve disputes on faulty
loans and foreclosures.  Shares Slip  Bank of America, ranked second by assets among U.S. banks,
gave up gains during early  trading , falling 4.9 percent to $7.53
at 4 p.m. in  New York  for the day’s worst showing in the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average . It’s still leading the 30-company
benchmark for the year with a 35 percent advance.  Lenders typically have sold mortgages to investors with a
promise to buy them back if underwriting flaws were found.
Insurance companies that backed mortgages got similar
assurances, and some have won settlements. The bank agreed to
resolve a dispute with Syncora Holdings Ltd. for $375 million,
the Bermuda-based insurer said yesterday.  While the quarter’s newest claims totaled in the billions,
the firm added just $395 million to reserves that cover any
payments that may result.  Shareholders (BAC)  have pressured Bank of
America to stop the bleeding as private investors and U.S.-
backed firms such as Fannie Mae comb through holdings for flaws
that merit a refund.  Sue or Settle  “We clearly have a disagreement, and the way that it gets
resolved is obviously through one of two ways,” Chief Financial
Officer Bruce R. Thompson said during the conference call.
“Either they would look to bring an action, or alternatively
there would be a settlement.”  Outstanding claims from private investors jumped 77 percent
to $8.6 billion, mostly from trustees of mortgage-bond pools
that weren’t included in an $8.5 billion  settlement  announced
last year, Bank of America said. The $22.7 billion of pending
claims doesn’t include $3.1 billion from investors who Bank of
America said don’t have legal standing to force investigations.  Bank of America had anticipated a rise in claims from
private investors and built repurchase reserves a year earlier,
Thompson said. Ultimate losses from that group will be “well
below $1 billion,” he said.  Requests from  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac , the so-called
government-sponsored enterprises, rose 35 percent to almost $11
billion. Bank of America said that most of the new claims are on
loans in which borrowers have made at least two years of
payments, indicating the lender wasn’t at fault.  More Pressure  Fannie Mae is stepping up pressure on Bank of America and
other lenders as it seeks to defray costs for taxpayers who
bailed out the Washington-based company in 2008. PNC Financial
Services Group Inc. said today the GSEs are “aggressively”
boosting demands and that it’s possible the Pittsburgh-based
firm could see another $350 million in buyback requests.  Bank of America’s total $1.77 billion provision for credit
losses declined from $3.26 billion a year earlier and was the
smallest since 2007. Companywide revenue fell 1.4 percent to
$22 billion from the first quarter, reflecting lower
contributions across most of the firm’s  operations . The tally
jumped from $13.2 billion a year earlier, when it was depressed
by one-time costs of cleaning up defective mortgages.  Excluding one-time items, earnings per share for the
quarter would have been close to break-even, according to an
analysis by Ed Najarian at International Strategy and Investment
Group LLC. Najarian has a hold rating on the shares.  Countrywide’s Role  Under Moynihan’s predecessor Kenneth D. Lewis, the company
ballooned to become the biggest  U.S. bank  through more than $130
billion in  takeovers . One of them was Countrywide Financial
Corp., the mortgage lender that was careening toward collapse in
2008. Regulators and lawmakers have cited Countrywide for lax
standards that contributed to record U.S. defaults, and claims
tied to its loans fueled Bank of America’s record loss in last
year’s second quarter. The real estate unit’s quarterly loss
narrowed to $768 million from $14.5 billion.  Bank of America ranked as the biggest U.S. home lender
after buying Countrywide, with almost a quarter of the market.
It’s now No. 4 with a 4.2 percent share as of March 31,
according to trade journal Inside Mortgage Finance, leaving
Wells Fargo & Co. and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  to benefit from a
refinancing boom amid record-low  interest rates . Bank of America
said today it had reclaimed some of the lost market share.  Moynihan has vowed to bring down expenses, and in March he
promised “demonstrable progress” every quarter, with more than
30,000 retail and support jobs targeted for elimination. The CEO
today announced $3 billion of cuts at the investment bank,
trading and wealth-management units.  Expenses excluding interest dropped to $17 billion from
$19.1 billion in the first quarter and $22.9 billion in the
second quarter of 2011, with the  staff shrinking  by 3,228 from
the end of March to 275,460 full-time workers, according to the
statement.  The lender also reduced long-term debt by $53 billion to
$302 billion in the quarter, helping reduce interest costs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  