-- BOJ Opens Door to Negative Rates by Ending Yield Floor: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-07-18T07:36:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/boj-opens-door-to-negative-rates-by-ending-yield-floor-economy.html
The  Bank of Japan (8301)  scrapped a 0.1
percent yield floor for government bond purchases, opening the
door to the possibility of buying debt with negative returns.  The central bank removed the limit on purchases of
securities with maturities of one year or less in its so-called
rinban operation, BOJ spokesman Tsuyoshi Nakamura said in  Tokyo .  The central bank is struggling to buy enough bonds to
execute a stimulus program to strengthen the world’s third-
biggest economy as Europe’s crisis and a global economic
slowdown boost demand for the government’s debt. UBS AG said
that the latest move indicated the central bank’s determination
to press on with asset purchases and gave policy makers an extra
tool if ever needed.  “I don’t think negative interest rates are going to happen
any time soon in  Japan , but this is probably a message from the
BOJ that it’s ready to cope with any market turmoil stemming
from the European crisis,” said Atsushi Ito, a senior rate
strategist in Tokyo at UBS. “This shows their determination to
fulfill their asset purchases as they’ve pledged.”  Japan’s benchmark 10-year yield fell to 0.755 percent as of
4:04 p.m. in Tokyo, matching the lowest level since 2003 reached
last week.  The central bank tweaked its stimulus program on July 12
without adding extra money and said that it would buy more
treasury bills. The overnight rate target stayed at between zero
and 0.1 percent, unchanged since October 2010.  Purchase Failures  The BOJ failed to attract enough bids in its rinban
purchases on July 6 for a second time since May, as banks chose
to hang on to the bonds rather than take cash. A six-month
funding operation also didn’t reach its bid goal for a 14th
straight time on July 10.  “It didn’t look good for the BOJ to have a series of
failures in their operations given they have been saying they
are pursuing powerful monetary easing,” said  Mari Iwashita , a
bond strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo.
“Allowing negative yields is an indication of their
determination to fulfill the terms of the purchase program no
matter what.”  Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co. said today that a “more
active” monetary policy may emerge after new members join the
Bank of Japan’s board, probably in August.  Yields on 5-year  government securities  also last week
reached the lowest since 2003 as the central bank bought bonds
and investors sought a haven from Europe’s debt crisis and a
global slowdown.  Negative Yield  The European Financial Stability Facility, the region’s
temporary rescue fund, yesterday auctioned 1.49 billion euros
($1.8 billion) of six-month bills at a yield of minus 0.0113
percent. The EFSF joined  Belgium ,  Denmark , France, Germany, the
Netherlands and Switzerland in requiring investors to pay for
the safety of holding their debt. Japan bought 3 percent of the
debt sold, a Finance Ministry official said on condition of
anonymity because of the ministry’s policy.  Borrowing costs of Europe’s higher-rated nations have
plunged since the  European Central Bank  cut its benchmark
 interest rate  to 0.75 percent and lowered its deposit rate to
zero on July 5. More than half of Europe’s money market funds by
assets have closed because securities they invest in pay
negative returns after the ECB move, according to  Standard &
Poor’s .  Elsewhere in Asia today, China reported that new  home
prices  rose in 25 of 70 major cities in June from May,
indicating that economic growth may be supported by a rebound in
the real-estate market.  Bernanke Testimony  In the U.S., Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will
testify before Congress for a second day today as part of the
central bank’s semi-annual monetary policy report. His policy
makers “are looking for ways to address the weakness in the
economy should more action be needed to promote a sustained
recovery in the labor market,” Bernanke said yesterday.  The Fed’s Beige Book assessment of U.S. economic conditions
is also due today. The residential  property market  may be one of
the bright spots, with a Commerce Department report likely to
show that builders began work on more houses in June than at any
time since October 2008, according to the  median forecast  in a
Bloomberg News survey.  The  Bank of Canada  is scheduled to give a monetary policy
report today, while the U.K. gives jobless figures and the  Bank
of England  will release minutes of its July meeting.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  