-- Borrowings Up 73% as Low Rates Let Anyone Sell Debt: Muni Credit
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/borrowings-up-73-as-low-rates-let-anyone-sell-debt-muni-credit.html
Municipal-debt issuance is on a pace
for a record annual increase as yields close to the lowest in a
generation spur even the worst-rated states and cities to
refinance borrowings.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s policy of
keeping the benchmark overnight  interest rate  close to zero is
helping pad the coffers of issuers whose budgets are rebounding
from the recession that ended in 2009. It’s also aiding
borrowers such as the Puerto Rico Public Buildings Authority and
 Detroit ’s water and sewage agency. Both are rated near junk by
Moody’s Investors Service and refunded higher-cost debt in June.  Municipalities have sold  $195 billion  of long-term, fixed-
rate debt this year, 73 percent more than the same period in
2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Refinancing is helping
depress yields by contributing to a historic $142 billion
flowing to bondholders in the three months through July, which
they can funnel back into munis, according to Citigroup Inc.  “Rates are very benign and that makes them attractive to
issuers and causes a little pain for investors,” said John Hallacy, head of municipal research at Bank of America Merrill
Lynch in  New York . “So investors are more willing to
participate earlier on if they think rates are going to drop.”  Banks Boosting  Bank of America, Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, Morgan
Stanley and RBC Capital Markets LLC boosted issuance projections
in the past month. At $390 billion, Bank of America’s 2012
forecast is the biggest and is up 18 percent from December. It
would represent a 51 percent annual leap, the steepest since at
least 2003, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  About 64 percent of this year’s sales have been for
refunding, the most since 1993, according to Bank of America.  Mutual funds that invest in munis have added $16.3 billion
this year, the biggest influx since 2009, according to Lipper US
Fund Flows data. Demand has held up even as three California
municipalities in as many weeks decided to file for bankruptcy.  “The market still doesn’t see California’s problem and
some of the struggling credit situations as typical of the
overall muni market,” said  Richard Ciccarone , chief research
officer at McDonnell Investment Management LLC in  Oak Brook ,
 Illinois , in an interview.  Yields on benchmark tax-exempt bonds approached record
lows yesterday. The interest rate on 10-year munis rated AAA
touched about 1.75 percent, within about 0.01 percentage point
of its least ever, according to a Bloomberg Valuation  index 
starting in January 2009. A weekly Bond Buyer  gauge  of 20-year
yields is close to the lowest since the 1960s.  Capital Savings  The refinancings are a boon to local governments, which saw
a decrease in property taxes in the first three months of 2012
following two quarters of growth, according to the Nelson A.
 Rockefeller Institute  of Government in  Albany , New York.  Last month, the Puerto Rico agency sold about $589 million
of refunding bonds, while Detroit’s independently run water and
sewerage department offered about $660 million. Moody’s rated
the securities from the U.S. commonwealth agency Baa1, three
steps above junk. The Detroit issuer received Baa2, one level
lower.  Issuers with better credit are taking advantage too.
Albany, New York’s capital, generated about $927,000 in net-
present-value savings from a $12.6 million refunding sale last
month, according to City Treasurer Kathy Sheehan. The offer was
rated AA- by  Standard & Poor’s , the fourth-highest grade.  “If I were to take that total amount over a six-year
period, we’re talking about being able to put more police or
firefighters on the street,” she said in an interview.  Following is a pending sale:  PENNSYLVANIA plans to sell $364 million of general-
obligation debt as soon as next week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Proceeds will refund debt. (Updated July 18)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gillian White in New York at 
 gwhite46@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at   smerelman@bloomberg.net  