-- Brazil’s Petrobras Raising Prices as Rivals’ Sales Drop
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-07-18T21:38:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/brazil-s-petrobras-raising-prices-as-rivals-sales-drop.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA, the worst-
performing major oil stock this year, is raising fuel prices
even as a recession in  Europe  and slowdown in  China  reduces
revenue at global energy providers.  Petrobras (PETR4)  said July 12 it would boost diesel prices by 6
percent, three weeks after it increased gasoline and diesel
prices for the first time in seven months. The government, which
controls Petrobras with a majority of voting shares, had
resisted higher prices to avoid fanning inflation in the world’s
second-largest emerging market. Petrobras has sold fuel below
international prices since the start of 2011.  The price increases may help Petrobras improve its earnings
outlook compared with global peers, whose margins are being
pared by a 10 percent drop in  oil prices  this year, according to
Oliver Leyland at Mirae Asset Global Investments. Petrobras’s
net income fell 16 percent in the first quarter of this year,
more than all other major  oil companies  except for BP Plc,
according to Bloomberg Industries data.  “They’re delivering what needs to be done to avoid a
balance sheet blowout in the next 24 months,” Leyland, who
helps manage about 1 billion reais ($494 million) in stocks,
including Petrobras, said in a telephone interview from  Sao
Paulo . “Inflation has slowed substantially, so that opens the
room to more price increases.”  Petrobras shares have lost 16 percent for investors this
year in U.S. dollar terms, the worst performance among the
world’s 10 biggest oil companies by market value. The Brazilian
company is expected to post a 14 percent drop in 2012  net
income , the biggest decline among major producers for at a
second year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Price Gap  Petrobras rose 0.4 percent to 19.33 reais in Sao Paulo. The
stock fetches eight times reported profit, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Petrobras plans to invest $236.5 billion in the five years
through 2016 as it accelerates production of oil trapped under
as much of 3,000 meters (9,800 feet) of salt and rocks below the
Atlantic seabed. The company plans to borrow $80 billion to
finance the plan and service its debt.  “If the company’s finances continue to be stretched, the
government will continue to give ground on price increases,”
 Christopher Garman , an analyst who covers  Latin America  at
Eurasia Group, said in a telephone interview from  Washington .
“That’s much less costly to the government’s industrial policy
priorities than Petrobras rolling back its capex plans.”  Create Jobs  Petrobras’s budget includes local procurement requirements
of as much as 65 percent to guarantee it will finance a local
shipbuilding and oil services industry to help  create jobs .
Brazilian shipyards are expanding to build drillships and
platforms to help develop the biggest discoveries since
Kazakhstan found the Kashagan field in 2000.  The world’s biggest producer in waters deeper than 1,000
feet cut its output targets last month to 5.7 million barrels a
day in 2020, an 11 percent drop from the previous plan, as it
struggles to acquire the equipment and platforms needed to tap
the so-called pre-salt oil reserves. The local content
requirements have delayed projects, Petrobras said in its
business plan.  The most recent adjustment reduced the diesel price gap to
13 percent compared with Gulf of Mexico prices, Banco Itau BBA
SA analyst Paula Kovarsky said in a July 12 note. Import costs
expand the discount to 27 percent, she said.  “The downside looks limited,” Kovarsky said in a
telephone interview from Sao Paulo. “It was a reality check.”  ‘Way Out’  Petrobras’s revenue in the past 12 months was lower than
any other  oil company  worth more than $100 billion except for
 Colombia ’s Ecopetrol SA, which produces a third of Petrobras’s
output, Bloomberg Industries data show.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the oil
company with the closest output levels to Petrobras, had 57
percent more revenue during the period, the data show.  Brazil ’s slowing economy and weakening Chinese demand for
its minerals and agricultural exports has turned investors sour
on Brazil in general, Ricardo Correa, an analyst at Ativa SA in
Rio de Janeiro, said in a telephone interview. As Brazil’s
 largest publicly traded company , Petrobras stands to lose from a
general Brazil pullback, he said.  “Foreign investors are leaving Brazil and Petrobras is a
way out,” he said. “Narrowing down the gap is good, but it’s
not the end of the problem.”  Shale Shift  Petrobras is also suffering from a shift in the oil
industry to shale fields on land where advanced drilling
techniques such as horizontal wells and hydraulic fracking have
boosted production in the U.S.  Investors are more interested in companies tapping these
new fields than deep water producers including Petrobras,
Robbert Van Batenburg, head of research at Louis Capital Markets
LP in  New York , said in a telephone interview.  “There was a time when deep water fields were the flavor
of the day,” he said. “We’ve moved on from that. It may scream
attractive on some metrics, but it’s elusive.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net ;
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  