-- Brazil Said to Plan Tax, Rate Cuts to Lower Energy Cost 20%
-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i
-- 2012-07-18T21:10:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/brazil-said-to-plan-tax-and-rate-cuts-to-lower-energy-cost-20-.html
Brazil ’s government may cut fees
levied on power companies and will demand tariffs reductions
when renewing concessions that expire in 2015 to reduce energy
costs by about 20 percent, two government officials familiar
with the discussions said.  The moves are part of an effort to stimulate private
investment in Brazil that will include a new set of rules to
sell roads, port, airport and railroad concessions, said the
officials, who asked not to be named because the measures are
still being drafted. President  Dilma Rousseff  may announce the
new measures next month, they said.  Manufacturers in  China  and the U.S., Brazil’s two main
trading partners, pay less than half for energy than their
Brazilian rivals, according to an August 2011 report by the Rio
de Janeiro Industrial Federation. A lack of adequate
infrastructure and high energy bills are two of the obstacles
Brazil must overcome to increase competitiveness, said Marcio Loureiro, senior equity analyst at Votorantim Ctvm Ltda.  “Industrial plants that have idle capacity because their
products are not competitive due to costs related to energy and
logistics may be stimulated to increase output,” Loureiro said
in a phone interview from  Sao Paulo .  Fees charged by the Brazilian energy regulator account for
10.8 percent of the total revenue accrued by distributors in
Brazil, according to data compiled by the Mines and Energy
Ministry. Federal taxes account for another 5.1 percent of the
revenue.  Loureiro estimates that prices charged by energy generators
with concessions expiring in 2015 could be cut by as much as 30
percent if regulators determine that companies have already
repaid the costs of building hydroelectric dams. State-
controlled Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA, Cia Energetica de
Minas Gerais and Cia Paranaense de Energia are among the
generators that will need to renew concessions starting in 2015,
Loureiro said.  The Mines and Energy Ministry declined to comment in an e-
mailed statement. The Presidential Press Office didn’t respond
to a Bloomberg e-mail and phone calls requesting comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 