-- Brevan Howard Starts U.S. Investment Firm With $300 Million
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-07-18T17:33:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/brevan-howard-starts-u-s-investment-firm-with-300-million-1-.html
Brevan Howard  Asset Management LLP,
Europe’s second-largest hedge fund, has opened a U.S. investment
firm that will start trading in August with an estimated $300
million.  Brevan Howard U.S. Investment Management LP was set up in
 New York  last month and is registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the hedge fund said in a statement today.
It will start investing money provided by Brevan Howard’s Master
Fund in August, the company said.  Brevan Howard is expanding after it outperformed the hedge-
fund industry last year and assets under management increased by
$2.5 billion to $36.7 billion in the first six months of 2011.
Brevan Howard, in documents filed last month with the SEC, said
it expects the “initial” assets overseen by the new U.S.
investment firm will be about $300 million.  Alan Howard , 48, founded Brevan Howard in 2002 with four
other fixed-income traders from Credit Suisse Group AG. The
firm’s Master Fund, with more than $25 billion, gained 12
percent last year.  Macro hedge funds , which trade currencies,
bonds, commodities and  interest rates  based on global economic
trends, fell 7.4 percent last year on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The Master Fund declined 2.2 percent in June and was down
3.6 percent for the first six months of 2012. It hasn’t posted
an annual loss since its inception in April 2003. Brevan Howard
also has  hedge funds  focused on commodities,  emerging markets 
and bonds. Officials at the firm declined to comment.  Brevan Howard disclosed the creation of the U.S. investment
firm in a monthly note sent to investors of BH Macro Ltd., a
publicly traded company that raises money for the Master Fund.  The hedge fund also said it started trading from a Sao
Paulo office in May, according to the letter. Brevan Howard
announced plans to open an office in the country in September
2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  