-- British Open Golfers Face Precision Test From Opening Shot
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-07-19T09:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/british-open-golfers-face-test-of-precision-from-opening-shot.html
British Open golfers will need to be
on the mark with their very first swing at the sport’s oldest
major championship, which began today.  The Royal Lytham and St. Annes course in northern  England 
opens with a 205-yard, par-3 hole that forces players to make an
immediate pinpoint shot or face dropping an early stroke. Six
bunkers front the green, with a seventh on the back left side.  “It is different, there’s no doubt, because we have to be
precise out of the gate,” 14-time major winner  Tiger Woods  said
at a news conference two days ago. “Normally it’s an iron,
hybrid, whatever, off the first tee. You can get it any distance
you want and you’re setting yourself up for the second shot.”  Woods made a birdie putt from about 12 feet to open his
round.  Scotland ’s  Paul Lawrie , the 1999 champion, is 3 under par
after birdies at the third through fifth holes to lead England’s
 Lee Westwood  and  India ’s Jeev Milkhs Singh by one shot.  The first hole isn’t the only challenge facing the 156-
player field. The 7,086-yard, par-70 course near the seaside
resort town of Blackpool is also dotted with more than 200
bunkers and lined by a heavy, thick rough caused by the U.K.’s
wettest summer on record.  Play began at the year’s third major began at 6:30 a.m.
under a light drizzle, which has stopped. A clear sky is
forecast for the remainder of the day, according to the U.K.’s
 Met Office .  No. 1 Ranking  Woods, the bookmakers’ favorite to win a fourth Claret Jug
following victories in 2000, 2005 and 2006, will tee off at 9:42
a.m. with Englishman  Justin Rose  and  Sergio Garcia  of  Spain .
Woods, 36, has won three times this season, though he hasn’t won
a major since the 2008  U.S. Open .  Woods has climbed to No. 4 in the world rankings and will
take over the top spot for the first time since October 2010 if
he wins and Donald fails to finish in the top three.  Donald and Westwood sandwich Northern Ireland’s Rory McIlroy at the top of the rankings and join Woods among the
favorites. Woods is rated the 10-1 top chance by  William Hill
Plc (WMH) , ahead of Westwood at 12-1. Donald and McIlroy are 20-1
shots, meaning a successful $1 bet returns $21.  Donald and Westwood are seeking their first major titles.
Westwood finished in a tie for third at the  Masters Tournament 
in April and tied for 10th at last month’s U.S. Open.  McIlroy entered last year’s British Open following a
record-setting U.S. Open victory. He faltered at Royal St.
George’s in Sandwich, England, finishing 12 shots behind
countryman  Darren Clarke , the surprise winner.  Hype, History  “The hype and everything was so big last year that it
maybe had a little bit to do with it,” McIlroy told reporters.
“But at the end of the day, I just didn’t play well enough to
figure in the tournament.”  If recent history at the majors is any indication, another
unexpected champion may be crowned. The past 15 majors have been
won by 15 different players, with first-timers taking nine
straight titles since  Phil Mickelson  captured his third Masters
victory in 2010.  “You can’t guess who’s going to win,” said Bubba Watson,
who won his first major title at Augusta in April. “There’s
more and more talent out there. Every week everybody in the
field has a chance to win the  golf tournament , no matter how old
or young you are.”  Whoever wins will have to put a premium on precision around
Royal Lytham and its 206 bunkers. Those who are able to hit the
ball at specific target areas and avoid the sand will have the
advantage over the more aggressive players, according to golfers
including Donald and McIlroy.  The thick rough and soft fairways caused by the weather,
and the changing winds of a links golf course, may also make it
a tournament for shot-makers rather than long-hitters.  “You’re just going to have to really do a good job of
trying to keep it out of the fairway bunkers and keeping it out
of the rough,” McIlroy said. “That’s going to be the main
thing this week.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch at Royal Lytham & St. Annes through the London sports
desk at   bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  