-- Buyers Bet Wen Can’t Keep Prices Down as Home Sales Gain
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-19T09:03:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/buyers-bet-wen-can-t-keep-prices-down-as-home-sales-gain.html
Sales at Sunac West Chateau, a
residential project in Beijing, surged almost 50 percent in June
as the developer opened new buildings to attract buyers betting
on a recovery even as the government pledges to keep a lid on
the housing market.  “In the first half of the year, it was like gazing at
flowers in a fog,” said Lou Yanqing, deputy sales manager of
the project, using a Chinese expression to describe the
uncertainty over the government’s policies to curb house price
gains. “We’re seeing some sunshine now, and going forward
there’s a big chance that the clouds will clear,” she said.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said July 7 that citizens are worried
prices will rise again, reiterating a pledge that his government
will “unswervingly” continue property controls. Recent data
suggest buyers aren’t listening: property sales and prices have
rebounded as local governments relaxed some housing restrictions
and the central bank cut interest rates.  “The possibility that history will repeat remains,”
Credit Suisse Group AG analyst Vincent Chan said in a phone
interview from  Hong Kong , referring to past property surges that
followed sales increases.  A 20 percent to 30 percent rebound is possible if the
government, similar to past cycles, “mildly drops its
tightening policy,” Chan wrote in a July 4 report. Existing
 home prices  in Beijing,  Shanghai , Guangzhou and Shenzhen surged
42 percent, 58 percent, 79 percent and 69 percent respectively
in the 24 months from February 2009 as  China  loosened property
curbs, according to Credit Suisse.  Sales Surge  A  gauge  tracking property shares in Shanghai fell by 0.3
percent to the lowest in two months, the only declining group
among the five on the  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  benchmark.  At Sunac West Chateau, developed by  Sunac China Holdings
Ltd. (1918) , sales jumped to about 650 million  yuan  ($102 million) last
month, from more than 400 million yuan a month since March, Lou
said in a July 10 interview. Buyers paid deposits for 80 percent
of apartments on June 9, when Tianjin-based Sunac, part-owned by
U.S. private-equity firm Bain Capital LLC, opened for orders
three buildings in the project’s third phase. The average price
per apartment in the third phase is 15 million yuan.  The project’s average selling price has climbed between 15
percent and 25 percent this year, with prices and sales rising
“month by month” since February, Lou said. The company is
keeping increases “stable and within a reasonable range” to
avoid driving clients away, she added.  Prompting Buyers  Home prices in June rose in the most cities tracked by the
government in 11 months, the bureau of statistics said
yesterday. Prices climbed from the previous month in 25 cities
out of the 70 the government looks at, the most since July last
year.  “Stable or slightly rising home prices would prompt those
waiting on the sideline for further home price decline to enter
the market,” Deutsche Bank AG analysts, led by  Tony Tsang ,
wrote in a report today. Home sales in most Chinese cities will
“remain robust” in the second half of the year, they said.  Sales of homes rose for a second month in June, by 41
percent from May, to 531.3 billion yuan, the National Bureau of
Statistics reported last week.  China Vanke Co. (000002) , the country’s biggest developer by market
value, said its contracted sales were 13.3 billion yuan last
month, a 24 percent jump from May.  Longfor Properties Co. (960) ,
controlled by the country’s richest woman, Wu Yajun, reported on
July 5 that June sales rose 36 percent from May.  Cheaper Mortgages  “Transaction volumes have been picking up, that’s
primarily from first-time home buyers,” said  Michael Klibaner ,
Shanghai-based head of China research at broker Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. “Now, with the two interest rate cuts in the last
month, the pricing of mortgages has come down too.”  Gao Yang, a 32-year-old employee at a company that makes
bathroom fixtures, is among buyers leading the turnaround. In
May, he spent 1.2 million yuan on a 52-square-meter (560-square-
foot) apartment outside Beijing’s fourth ring road, one of the
capital’s six highway loops.  “Home prices in big cities such as Beijing and Shanghai,
will never go down,” Gao said. “I had already missed some good
deals, and I was afraid home prices would rise again.”  Even before the central bank cut  interest rates , lenders
had lowered  mortgage rates  for first-home buyers, with some
banks in Beijing offering a 15 percent discount to the central
bank’s benchmark as compared with premiums of as much as 10
percent last year, according to Bacic & 5i5j Group, the
capital’s second-biggest real estate broker.  Wen’s Pledge  The People’s Bank of China cut its benchmark interest rates
on July 5 for the second time in a month. Expectations for
further policy easing rose after China’s consumer price index
declined in June and the economy expanded 7.6 percent in the
second quarter from a year ago, the slowest pace in three years.  “The rate cut will shake people’s expectations on the
continuity of property curbs,” Zhou Binglin and Cui Rong,
analysts at Guosen Securities Co., wrote in a July 6 report.
“Combined with the real benefits from lowered interest rates,
the risk of home prices running astray again is rising.”  The economic slowdown is testing Wen’s pledge to sustain
controls aimed at reining in the housing market as he tries to
boost growth. China’s State Council is organizing several
research groups to look into the reason for rebounding home
prices and give advice on policy measures to counter further
increases, the official Shanghai Securities News reported July
16, citing unidentified people.  ‘Critical Period’  During the July 7 visit to eastern Jiangsu province, the
Premier was cited by the official Xinhua News Agency as saying
property controls are at a “critical period” and the task
remains “arduous.”  China’s new home prices rose for the first time in 10
months in June, SouFun Holdings Ltd., the nation’s biggest real
estate website owner, said. Home prices have fallen 2.2 percent
from the peak in August, according to SouFun.  Thirty-two percent of respondents to a SouFun survey said
home prices have come to a turning point, with 15 percent of
them expecting “prices will surge,” according to the results
on the website as of July 18. About 45 percent of them said
they’re planning to buy in the second half of the year. The
survey started July 3 and runs through Aug. 2.  Some developers have called off discounts or raised prices
after sales picked up following the monetary policy easing,
SouFun said. That’s abating financial difficulties for
developers that had prompted price cuts, it said.  ‘No Pressure’  Yeland Group Co. (000616) , a Beijing-based developer, is facing “no
pressure” to boost sales by cutting prices, President Ma Yin
said in a phone interview, adding the company has just cleared
all inventory at a 43,069-square-meter residential project in
Beijing. The company’s first-half profit surged from 80 percent
to 120 percent from a year earlier to as much as 225 million
yuan on stronger sales, according to a July 11 filing to the
Shenzhen stock exchange.  A sharp rebound in prices is unlikely given the central
government’s “steadfast” stance on property curbs, Wang
Juelin, deputy head of the housing ministry’s policy research
center, said in an interview in Beijing on June 27. The rebound
in housing sales is mainly a result of improved access to bank
lending as inflation pressures eased, he said.  Speculators Deterred  “Nobody, be it investors nor speculators, now dare to
engage in large-scale property speculation, because they don’t
know when the market or policy stance may change,” Wang said.
“Should the market heat up again, you can just add to the curbs
a little bit and it will cool down right away.”  China’s two-year effort to curb the  property market 
included raising down-payment and mortgage requirements,
imposing a property tax for the first time in Shanghai and
Beijing, increasing building of low-cost social housing, and
placing home purchase restrictions in about 40 cities.  Those measures have helped deter speculators. About 92
percent of buyers in the market purchased homes for self-use in
May, according to CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets. Such “real
demand” will drive sales up 12 percent this year, said the
brokerage’s Hong Kong-based analyst  Nicole Wong .  Homebuyer Gao said the latest interest rate cut will lower
mortgage repayments and push up the value of his new home.  “That’s exactly what I’d been hoping for,” Gao said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net ;
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  