-- California Foie Gras Ban to Remain in Force, Judge Says
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-07-18T20:29:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/california-foie-gras-ban-stays-in-force-for-now-judge-says-1-.html
A  California  ban on sales of foie
gras that went into effect on July 1 will remain in place for
now while a lawsuit over the law’s constitutionality proceeds, a
federal judge said.  U.S. District Judge Stephen Wilson issued the ruling at a
hearing today in federal court in Los Angeles. The foie gras
producers fighting the law hadn’t met their burden of showing
that they were likely to succeed on the merits of their claims
or that they were likely to suffer irreparable harm absent a
temporary restraining order, the judge said.  Wilson asked Michael Tenenbaum, the plaintiffs’ lawyer, why
his clients hadn’t moved to block the ban a few months before it
took effect rather than wait until July 2 to sue.  “Your position on that question is weak,” the judge said.
“You haven’t provided a satisfactory explanation why you need a
temporary restraining order.”  Wilson set a hearing for Aug. 29 for arguments on a request
by the foie gras producers for a preliminary injunction against
the ban while the case is pending, at which both sides can more
thoroughly present their position.  The plaintiffs, two foie gras producers and a restaurant
that until recently served the delicacy, claim they are losing
$11,000 a day “in the name of California’s attempt to impose
dietary guidelines for ducks far beyond its borders.”  Arnold Schwarzenegger  The ban on foie gras, French for “fat liver,” was signed
into law in 2004 by then-Governor  Arnold Schwarzenegger .
Enforcement was postponed for almost eight years to let
producers find an alternative to force-feeding. No substitute
method has come to light.  The law bans force-feeding ducks or geese to make foie gras
and forbids selling foie gras produced that way. Violators can
be fined as much as $1,000 a day.  The plaintiffs include a Canadian association of producers
who supply 100 percent of  Canada ’s imports of foie gras to the
U.S., and Hudson Valley, the largest U.S. producer of foie gras.  They claim the California law violates the U.S.
Constitution because, among other reasons, it is “impermissibly
vague,” seeks to impose a boycott of “USDA-inspected, lawful,
wholesome goods in interstate and foreign commerce,” and seeks
to regulate farmers outside of California.  The case is Association des Eleveurs de Canards et d’Oies
du Quebec v. Harris, 12-5735, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California ( Los Angeles ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  