-- Madoff Trustee, California’s Harris to Hold Talks on Suit
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-18T15:46:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/california-s-madoff-investor-suit-gets-n-y-court-review.html
California  Attorney General  Kamala Harris  and the liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s defunct firm will
hold talks seeking to end a deadlock over Harris’s $270 million
lawsuit against an alleged beneficiary of the Ponzi scheme.  The two sides will use mediation to pursue a settlement,
U.S. Bankruptcy Judge  Burton Lifland  said today at a hearing in
 Manhattan . Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  had asked Lifland to
stop Harris’s suit against  Stanley Chais ’s estate, saying only
the trustee can collect money for Madoff’s Ponzi victims. Harris
contends her suit can proceed because she’s using her state
policing power to protect consumers from fraud.  “One thing is clear: There are limited funds and multiple
claimants,” Lifland said in court.  The combatants portray their fight in court filings as a
clash between federal bankruptcy law, which describes a
trustee’s powers in fraud cases, and state law, governing a
state’s top law enforcer. In  New York , Picard’s home state, he
didn’t publicly protest in June when Attorney General Eric Schneiderman struck a $410 million settlement with Madoff feeder
fund operator  Ezra Merkin .  “Going to war with the attorney general in New York, who
is a large influential figure in his own circles, is much more
difficult than fighting someone in another state,” said
bankruptcy lawyer Chip Bowles of Bingham Greenebaum Doll LLP in
Louisville,  Kentucky . “That’s just reality. Given his business
dealings, the trustee may need Schneiderman more than he would
ever need Harris.”  ‘Investment Wizard’  Picard declined to explain why he sued Harris and not
Schneiderman. “We don’t talk publicly about our strategy,” he
said in an interview.  Shum Preston, a spokesman for Harris, said he couldn’t
immediately comment.  Harris, a Democrat, has sought to press a 2009 complaint in
state court in  Los Angeles  that alleges Chais passed himself off
as an “investment wizard” and earned $270 million in fees from
1995 to 2008 for “doing nothing more than funneling all of his
investors’ capital into an epic  Ponzi scheme ” without their
knowledge or authorization. She is seeking to recover illegal
profits and other penalties.  Picard’s 2009 suit against Chais and related entities
demanded $1 billion allegedly withdrawn fraudulently from the
Ponzi scheme. The Beverly Hills, California-based money manager
died in 2010. Picard sued Harris in January, alleging her
lawsuit interferes with the collection of assets needed to help
compensate Madoff victims.  ‘Select Group’  Earlier this month, Picard said if Harris is allowed to
recoup illegal profits from the Madoff Ponzi scheme, any funds
recovered would go either to California’s coffers or to “a
select group” of investors who are residents of the most
populous state. Yet Schneiderman’s Merkin deal, settling a
lawsuit alleging the investor secretly placed client money with
the con man, calls for using $405 million to compensate
investors.  While Picard acknowledges that state policing powers are
exempt from bankruptcy rules, he said last month in a court
filing that Harris’s suit isn’t exempt because she’s suing
someone who is dead and can’t be deterred from wrongdoing.  Harris’s suit is meant to deter all “bad actors,” she
said, in answer to Picard.  ‘Bad Actors’  “Law enforcement actions are concerned with not only
stopping or deterring the illegal conduct of a particular
defendant, but of all other possible future bad actors,” Harris
said in a filing. “By punishing violations of the law and
making them ‘unprofitable,’ enforcement actions affect
deterrence broadly.”  Picard so far has managed to stop most suits in the Madoff
case filed by private investors to recover money they lost. The
trustee contends that only he has a right to take back allegedly
illegal profits from the Ponzi scheme and distribute them to
investors whose claims he has decided are valid.  Last month, Lifland blocked a Florida class-action lawsuit
against the estate of Jeffry Picower, one of Madoff’s largest
former investors, saying it violated the law.  “This court has sole jurisdiction over the administration
and distribution of estate assets to customers,” he said. The
investors appealed his ruling.  Picard settled a lawsuit against the Picower estate for
$7.2 billion in 2010 after alleging the investor knew of, and
profited from, the fraud. Madoff customers who have little
prospect of getting paid by Picard say he is interfering with
their rights.  150-Year Sentence  Madoff is serving a 150-year sentence after pleading guilty
to a fraud that wiped out $17 billion of customers’ principal.
Picard and his  law firm , Baker & Hostetler LLP, have charged
$273 million for liquidating the estate since Madoff’s 2008
arrest, while returning $330 million to customers.  The Harris case is Picard v. Hall, 12-01001,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The
brokerage liquidation case is Securities Investor Protection
Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-
ap-1789, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  