-- Cameron Is Said to Plan Cabinet Reorganization After Summer
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-19T09:22:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/cameron-said-to-plan-cabinet-reorganization-after-summer-break.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  is
planning to reorganize his ministerial team after his summer
break, seeking to get his coalition on track after months of U-
turns and mutinies, said a person familiar with the matter.  Cameron sees the move as an opportunity to regain the
initiative before the party conference season that begins in
late September, according to the person, who asked not to be
identified because the plans are private.  Reshuffles are a piece of political theater in the U.K.,
with ministers walking up Downing Street to the prime minister’s
 London  residence to be told of promotion or demotion. They’re
complicated because most ministers have to be appointed from
among the lawmakers in the House of Commons. Cameron’s task is
trickier still, as his agreement with his Liberal Democrat
coalition partners states they get a share of posts.  “At the moment, there’s a sense that the government has
lost its narrative,”  Peter Allen , a researcher into ministerial
careers at the University of London’s Birkbeck College, said in
an interview. “A reshuffle is a chance for a prime minister to
stamp his identity on the government.”  The Mail on Sunday newspaper reported July 15 that
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  could be moved from
his post if the U.K.’s credit rating is cut, swapping roles with
Foreign Secretary  William Hague .  Austerity Program  In an interview published in the Daily Telegraph newspaper
today, Cameron said he expects the government’s austerity
program to narrow the  budget deficit  to extend through 2020.  “This is a period for all countries, not just in  Europe 
but I think you will see it in America too, where we have to
deal with our deficits and we have to have sustainable debts,”
Cameron said. “I don’t see a time when difficult spending
choices are going to go away.”  The coalition originally said its spending cuts would run
through March 2015. Osborne extended the program for another two
years in late 2011.  Once the Olympics are out of the way, the prime minister
may move Culture Secretary  Jeremy Hunt , who faced calls to
resign earlier this year after e-mails from an aide to a  News
Corp. (NWSA)  lobbyist were released to a media-ethics inquiry. If
Cameron wants to expand London’s Heathrow airport, he would need
to replace Transport Secretary Justine Greening, who represents
a district in the airport’s flight path and opposes such a move.  Lords Fallout  After almost a third of Conservative lawmakers rebelled
last week over a proposed House of Lords revamp, Patrick McLoughlin, who as chief whip is responsible for party
discipline, may be moved. Andrew Lansley, whose changes to the
structure of the  National Health Service , an institution that
Cameron promised in opposition he wouldn’t restructure, have
been opposed by doctors, could also be moved.  Since this year’s budget was presented in March, Cameron
has backed down over plans to tax hot food and caravans, to cap
tax relief on charitable donations, and to increase fuel duties.
The political reversals were capped last week when Tory
lawmakers refused to fast-track his bid to introduce elections
to the Lords.  Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg , the leader of the Liberal
Democrats, has to agree to moves involving his party.  Laws Comeback  David Laws , who was chief secretary to the Treasury for
less than a month in 2010 before he became the coalition’s first
resignation over his expenses, may be due the comeback that
Cameron promised him when he quit.  Cameron, 45, has gone 1 1/2 years without a wholesale
reorganization of ministers, longer than his two immediate
predecessors.  During the 13 years Labour was in power under  Tony Blair 
and then  Gordon Brown , the government went through six defense
secretaries. In one four-year period, three different people
were home secretary, overseeing policing and security. Under
Blair, John Reid held seven Cabinet-level posts in eight years,
including Health, Defense and the  Home Office .  The reshuffle is an opportunity for Cameron to punish the
disloyal and reward the faithful among the lower ranks in his
party. According to  Philip Cowley , professor of politics at
Nottingham University and an expert on parliamentary discipline,
this needs to be finely judged.  “The first problem is simply that so many of them have
rebelled now that if you say you’re only going to promote loyal
people, you’re looking at a fairly small pool,” Cowley said.
“The second problem is that if you exclude everyone who’s
rebelled, you send a signal that there’s no hope. It’s very
important that he sends a signal that redemption is possible, so
long as you don’t go nuts.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  