-- Cameron Pledges ‘Whatever It Takes’ for Olympics Security
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-18T14:12:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/cameron-pledges-whatever-it-takes-for-olympics-security-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said that the government will do “whatever it takes” to ensure
security at the London Olympics after  G4S Plc (GFS) ’s failure to
supply enough staff to protect games venues and accommodation.  Cameron, visiting British troops at Camp Bastion, the base
in southern  Afghanistan  from which most of the U.K.’s 9,500
troops in the country operate, praised the “excellent job” the
military has done to plug the shortfall left by G4S’s failure to
provide enough security personnel.  “If there are further steps we have to take, of course we
will take them, but I think the responsibility should be for G4S
to make sure that their people are there to provide enough
security,” Cameron said today. “But the army are playing a
vital role. Be in no doubt whatever it takes to provide a safe
and secure Olympic Games, we will do it,” he said, adding that
“when it comes to the Olympics, we have to be ready for any
contingency.”  Lawmakers on the House of Commons Home Affairs Committee
said yesterday that they have no confidence in the ability of
G4S, the world’s largest security company, after Chief Executive
Officer Nick Buckles agreed that the staffing shortfall that
forced the government to deploy thousands more soldiers and
police was a “humiliating shambles.”  Stability Sought  Asked if Buckles should resign, Olympics Minister Hugh Robertson told reporters in  London  today he wants to see
“stability at that firm. I don’t want resignations and chaos.”  “At the moment the important thing is we deliver a safe
and secure games and G4S is an important partner in that,”
Robertson said. “I have absolute confidence the company will
deliver.”  The games begin on July 27.  G4S rose after four days of declines. Shares of the
Crawley, England-based company advanced 2.4 percent to 245.8
pence as of 2:51 p.m. in London after dropping by as much as
17.9 percent from July 11 to a low of 238.80 on July 17.  Robertson said government lawyers are working on activating
all of the penalty clauses in the G4S contracts, including the
57 million-pound management fee, which Ian Horseman-Sewell,
G4S’s global events specialist, said the company expects to
retain.  Safe, Secure  “All the penalty clauses in the contract will be
activated,” Robertson said. “What happens to Mr. Buckles
afterwards is a matter for others in the post-games period. What
matters now is that he and his company concentrate on delivering
a safe and secure Olympics.”  The company’s performance was “unacceptable, incompetent
and amateurish,” Home Affairs Committee Chairman Keith Vaz told
Buckles yesterday.  The deployment of extra troops at the Olympics comes after
the government announced earlier this month that the U.K. will
cut its army to 82,000 personnel by 2020 from 102,000, around
half its size at the height of the  Cold War  in 1978.  “Yes, we do ask them to do a lot on our behalf but I think
it’s in everybody’s interest to have a  defense budget  that
really adds up,” Cameron said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in Camp Bastion, Afghanistan, at
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  