-- Canadian Currency Advances on Growth Outlook as Crude Oil Climbs
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-07-18T21:10:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/canadian-currency-depreciates-as-equities-and-crude-oil-decline.html
Canada ’s dollar appreciated against
its U.S. counterpart and the euro as oil rose to the highest
since May and stocks advanced, burnishing the outlook for
currencies that benefit from global demand.  The currency erased losses after the  Bank of Canada  said in
its monetary policy report that consumers and business
investment will lead modest economic growth through 2014, while
weaker global demand curbs exports. Canada derives about half
its export revenue from raw materials. The central bank
reiterated the next move in interest rates may be upward.  “We do have  oil prices  that are back near $90 a barrel,”
said  David Watt , chief economist in Toronto at HSBC Holdings
Plc’s HSBC Bank Canada unit, in a telephone interview. “That’s
certainly helping commodity currencies. There was a bit too much
overall bearishness priced in.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie, rose 0.2 to
C$1.0102 per U.S. dollar at 5:07 p.m. in Toronto after dropping
as much as 0.3 percent. It advanced 0.3 percent to C$1.2410
versus the euro. One Canadian dollar buys 98.97 U.S. cents.  Canada’s legal tender is up 2.4 percent this year, the
third-best performance in Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. It trails gains by its commodity-linked peers of
 Australia , 2.9 percent higher, and  New Zealand , 4.5 percent
stronger, on speculation higher-risk assets will benefit as
central banks increase stimulus to spur growth.  Diversification Trade  “For commodity currencies, it’s not just a simple risk-on,
risk-off trade you saw after the 2008 crisis,” said Jane Foley,
a senior currency strategist at Rabobank International, by phone
from  London . “You have this diversification trade going on
alongside that, which can complicate the picture.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.7 percent. Crude
oil futures added as much as 0.9 percent to $90.04 a barrel in
 New York . Copper for September delivery rose as much as 0.5
percent.  Government bonds  rose, sending the benchmark 10-year yields
lower by two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 1.62
percent. The yield touched 1.598 percent two days ago, the
lowest since 1950. The price of the 2.75 percent security due in
June 2022 rose 20 cents to C$110.28.  Enbridge Pipelines Inc. sold the first century bonds in
Canadian dollars since 1997, taking advantage of surging demand
for higher returning debt with benchmark yields at record lows
to finance the expansion of crude shipments across the
continent.  Century Bonds  The C$100 million ($99 million) of bonds, with a maturity
of 2112, were sold yesterday by the unit of Calgary-based
 Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  to a single investment fund with long-term
liabilities, said a person with direct knowledge of the
transaction who isn’t authorized to comment on the sale. Colin Gruending, Enbridge’s treasurer, declined to name the buyer in
an interview.  Declining  interest rates  around the world are draining
income for insurers and pension funds that often aim for minimum
annual returns of around 8 percent on investments. Canada’s 30-
year benchmark  bond  yielded 2.25 percent, close to the lowest in
two decades.  Canada’s central bank yesterday kept its target overnight
rate at 1 percent and trimmed growth forecasts for this year and
next, while reiterating the interest-rate increases are
possible.  The bank’s outlook “includes a gradual reduction in
monetary stimulus over the projection horizon, consistent with
achieving the inflation target,” policy makers said in the
report, repeating language from its last report in April.  “ You’re seeing a slight strengthening in risk currencies
across the board,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president in
Toronto at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange
dealer, in a telephone interview. “Even though the Bank of
Canada lowered growth forecasts, they did retain the tightening
bias. That should lend a hand to Canadian dollar strength.”  Curran said a drop below C$1.01 was a “green light” to
buy U.S. dollars.  The loonie will end the year at C$1.02 per U.S. dollar,
according to median estimate of 45 forecasters surveyed by
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  