-- Canaccord Suffers From Bank Deals Spiral: Corporate Canada
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-07-18T20:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/canaccord-suffers-from-bank-deals-spiral-corporate-canada.html
Canaccord Financial Inc. (CF)  and  GMP
Capital Inc. (GMP) ,  Canada ’s two largest non-bank brokerages, are
plunging to three-year lows on the Toronto Stock Exchange as
Europe’s debt crisis saps demand for mergers and financings.  The Toronto-based companies, which rely on trading and fees
from mergers and stock sales for more than half of their
revenue, are suffering as Canadian equity financings drop to the
lowest in two years.  “The problem is, there’s no underwriting, and underwriting
is the most lucrative side of the business,” Laura Wallace, who
helps manage C$12 billion ($11.9 billion) in stocks and bonds
for Scotia Private Client Group, said in an interview at
Bloomberg’s Toronto office. “If you’re a retail broker, you
need clients who trade. It becomes a bit of a spiral.”  Canadian equity financings, including preferred shares and
convertible bonds, fell 9.2 percent this year to $20.9 billion
from the same period a year ago, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Initial public offerings are down 46 percent from a
year ago to $993 million, the slowest since 2008. Mergers and
trading volume are also down.  “A lack of activity means a lack of revenue when it comes
to the brokerage space,” Sumit Malhotra, a financial services
analyst with Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto, said in an
interview. Malhotra rates Canaccord neutral, and GMP
underperform. “For Canaccord and GMP, the downturn has been
particularly severe as it has been centered in the commodity
sector, which has been the dominant source of their revenue
stream for the past decade.”  Stock Plunge  Canaccord  plunged  62 percent in the past 12 months while
GMP has fallen 59 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, underperforming Canada’s banks and insurance
companies. The S&P/TSX  Financials Index (STFINL)  fell 3.3 percent during
the period. Canaccord fell 2.3 percent to C$4.75 and GMP was
unchanged at C$4.81 at 4 p.m. in Toronto. GMP shares  sank  on
July 10 to the lowest since December 2008, while Canaccord
reached its lowest since March 2009 on July 12.  “Our share price has fallen, in line with many other
 investment-banking  stocks in recent months,”  Paul Reynolds ,
Canaccord’s chief executive officer, said at the annual meeting
in Toronto on July 12. “Overall  market sentiment  and global
economic concerns have played an unfavorable role in our stock
performance.”  In comparison,  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , the New York-based
firm that opened its first Canadian office in Toronto last
month, has fallen 37 percent in the past 12 months. Greenhill &
Co., the advisory firm founded by Robert Greenhill, has dropped
19 percent in the same period.  Mergers Decline  Mergers have also slowed. Canadian companies have been
involved in $131.8 billion of takeovers announced or completed
this year, down 17 percent from a year ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The amount of trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange is down
18 percent in the first half of this year compared with the
first six months of 2011, according to TMX Group Inc.
statistics. Trading on the junior  TSX Venture Exchange  has
fallen 42 percent.  “The effects of the continued global economic uncertainty
continue to play a significant role in shaping our operating
environment,” Reynolds said at the meeting. “The volatile
market conditions could persist for at least another 24 months,
and that will not be resolved until there’s absolute clarity as
to how the  European debt crisis  is addressed.”  Canaccord relied on its Canaccord Genuity investment
banking unit for 62 percent of revenue in its fiscal year ended
March 31. Canaccord plans to report first-quarter results on
Aug. 8.  Dividend Cut  GMP earned 55 percent of its revenue in 2011 from
investment banking, about half of which came from mining and
almost a quarter was from the oil-and-gas industry, according to
financial statements.  GMP, which is scheduled to report second-quarter results
Aug. 3, may cut its  dividend  for the second time this year
unless capital markets activity picks up, Atul Shah, an analyst
with BMO Capital Markets, said in a July 12 note.  “The company, like the rest of the industry, continues to
face a fragile capital markets environment,” Shah said. “We
believe the pace of M&A, equity underwriting and trading
activity are unlikely to pick up until the markets, especially
the small/mid cap resources space upon which the company
focuses, stabilize.”  Shah upgraded GMP to market perform, meaning the stock will
perform roughly in line with the market, from underperform, on
improved valuation and expectations of continued buying by
minority owner James Richardson & Sons Ltd. to support the
stock.  Buying Stock  The Winnipeg, Manitoba-based  money manager  has been buying
GMP stock, raising its ownership to 24 percent after including
warrants, according to a July 10 statement. Richardson & Sons
can hold a maximum 27.4 percent of GMP under a November 2009
agreement, when the firm and GMP agreed to combine wealth
management businesses.  Rocco Colella, spokesman for GMP, declined to comment.
Scott Davidson, a Canaccord spokesman, declined further comment.  GMP and Canaccord have bounced back from crises before. GMP
plunged as low as C$3.03 in December 2008 amid the financial
crisis, before soaring as high C$16.20 in March 2011. Canaccord
rallied as high as C$16.41 in February 2011, from a low of
C$2.85 in December 2008.  Canaccord is preparing for a “difficult operating
environment” by paring jobs and cutting costs, Reynolds said.
The company earlier this month cut 16 positions in  Montreal ,
including eight advisers, following 234 job cuts earlier in the
year that were connected with its takeover of British brokerage
Collins Stewart Hawkpoint Plc.  Difficult Period  Still, Reynolds said he sees improvements in the firm’s
second quarter after a “difficult” first period due to the
benefits of cost-cutting and fees from large takeovers expected
to close by then. Those deals include advising Viterra Inc. on
its takeover by Glencore International Plc, and advising Extorre
Gold Mines Ltd. on its takeover by Yamana Gold Inc., Reynolds
said.  “Our M&A business has been relatively strong and we’re
advising on some very large transactions,” Reynolds said in an
interview. The firm is gaining market share in equity financings
and underwriting in the U.S. and U.K., though the total amount
is “down significantly” in those markets.  “We think as you get a resolution in  Europe , you’ll see
those equity underwriting commissions come back,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  