-- Capital One to Pay $210 Million in First CFPB Enforcement
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-18T19:01:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/capital-one-to-pay-210-million-in-first-cfpb-enforcement-case.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  will pay
a total of $210 million to settle charges of deceptive marketing
of credit card “add-on” products such as payment protection
and credit monitoring.  It was the first public enforcement case brought by the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, established by the Dodd-
Frank Act to increase oversight of consumer financial products.
The bureau and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
the bank’s primary regulator, said Capitol One agreed to provide
between $140 million and $150 million in restitution to 2
million customers and pay an additional $60 million in penalties
-- $25 million to the CFPB and $35 million to the OCC.  The McLean, Virginia-based company didn’t admit or deny
wrongdoing. Its shares fell 1.4 percent to $55.01 in  New York  at
3:00 p.m., cutting their gain for the year to 30.1 percent.  “Today’s action puts $140 million back in the pockets of
two million Capital One customers who were pressured or misled
into buying credit card products they didn’t understand, didn’t
want, or in some cases, couldn’t even use,” said CFPB Director
 Richard Cordray , referring to the refund amount in the consumer
bureau’s settlement. “We are putting companies on notice that
these deceptive practices are against the law and will not be
tolerated.”  In a conference call with reporters, Cordray said that
other card issuers who market similar products face CFPB
enforcement actions as well.  ‘Deceptive’ Tactics  “We know these deceptive marketing tactics for credit card
add-on products are not unique to a single institution,”
Cordray said. “We expect announcements about other institutions
as our ongoing work continues to unfold.”  Cordray said the first public enforcement action by the
agency would not focus on smaller issues that are in a legal
“gray area.” The agency is looking out for “violation of law
and substantial consumer harm,” he said.  The bureau began operations on July 21, 2011.  He also said the CFPB would seek restitution in future
enforcement actions. “We will insist on refunds for injured
consumers,” Cordray said. “That’s a priority.”  As part of the settlement, Capital One agreed not to market
the add-on products until the CFPB approves its plan for
complying with the settlement, the bureau’s assistant director
for enforcement, Kent Markus, told reporters. This is one reason
why the bureau wasn’t concerned that Capital One didn’t admit
wrongdoing, Cordray said.  Third-Party Vendors  “Capital One is agreeing to a compliance regime that is
quite careful about ensuring that this does not happen again,”
Cordray said.  The CFPB said its examiners discovered that Capital One’s
third-party vendors engaged in deceptive tactics to sell
ancillary products to the company’s credit cards. The products
included “payment protection” that allows customers to cancel
as many as 12 months of minimum payments if they face
unemployment or temporary disability.  The vendors also sold credit-monitoring services, which
promised identity-theft protection and access to “credit
education specialists,” the CFPB said.  Cordray said that customers were wrongly led to believe
they needed to buy the services to activate their cards or that
debt protection or credit monitoring was free, while others were
left with the impression that the purchase would improve their
credit scores. Some customers were simply not eligible, but got
billed anyway.  ‘We Apologize’  Capital One said in a statement that it became aware of its
vendors’ practices in late 2011.  “We are accountable for the actions that vendors take on
our behalf,” Ryan Schneider, president of Capital One’s card
business, said in the statement. “These marketing calls were
inconsistent with the explicit instructions we provided to
agents for how these products should be sold. We apologize to
those customers who were impacted and we are committed to making
it right.”  More cases against credit-card companies may be in the
works. The CFPB and Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. have
subpoenaed  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  amid a probe into that
lender’s marketing of fee-based products, including debt-
protection, the company said in a June filing.  Inadequate Monitoring  “Capital One’s third-party vendors did not always adhere
to company sales scripts and sales policies for payment
protection and credit-monitoring products, and the bank did not
adequately monitor their activities,” the bank said in today’s
statement. Capital One had set aside $75 million to refund
customers, Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank said in
April.  “It’s very important that we make sure that all of our
customers have bought the products in the context that we
exactly intended,” Fairbank said at the time.  Markus said the agreement’s requirement that Capital One
submit future scripts to CFPB for approval before use suggests
“there is sufficient concern that the scripts themselves do not
permit this kind of activity in the future.”  Debt-protection products, also known as credit insurance,
are lucrative mainly because of limited competition. Customers
can’t get a card from one company and credit insurance from
another, according to consumer advocates including Birny
Birnbaum, executive director of the Austin, Texas-based  Center
for Economic Justice  and a former state insurance official.  Fees Pocketed  Card-issuing banks kept about 55 percent of the fees in
pretax earnings, according to a March 2011 Government
Accountability Office  report . Issuers reaped $2.4 billion in
fees from the products in 2009, according to the GAO, Congress’s
investigative arm.  In January, Capital One agreed to provide $13.5 million to
 West Virginia  and consumers there to settle claims tied to the
sale of payment-protection and other products between 2001 and
2005, state Attorney General Darrell McGraw said in a Jan. 17
statement. The company denied liability, according to the
statement.  Discover said that same month that the CFPB and FDIC had
told the company they plan to take a joint enforcement action
over the marketing of fee-based products, including payment
protection. The Riverwoods, Illinois-based firm said the
exposure could exceed $100 million.  The CFPB said it will consider whether new rules are needed
for debt-protection products, which have been among the CFPB’s
priorities since before the agency officially started work a
year ago. Bureau examiners are responsible for assuring
compliance with federal consumer laws at banks with assets of
more than $10 billion.  Catherine West, the CFPB’s former chief operating officer,
and Raj Date, the agency’s deputy director and former head of
its research, markets and regulation division, both worked at
Capital One.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  