-- Capital One Profit Plummets on One-Time Reserve Build
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-07-18T21:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/capital-one-profit-plummets-on-one-time-reserve-build.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) , the
lender that gets more than half of  revenue  from credit cards,
said second-quarter profit fell 90 percent as an acquisition
forced it to set aside loan-loss reserves.  Net income fell to $92 million, or 16 cents a share, from
$911 million, or $1.97, a year earlier, the McLean, Virginia-
based company said today in a statement. Income from continuing
operations was 33 cents a share. The average adjusted profit
 estimate  of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $1.46.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Fairbank, 61, has spent
more than $28 billion on acquisitions since 2005 to expand
beyond the credit-card business. The deals, including the 2012
purchase of ING Direct USA and HSBC Holdings Plc’s U.S. card
business, made Capital One the sixth-biggest U.S. commercial
bank by deposits. The company set aside the reserves to cover
losses on the acquired HSBC loans.  “While second-quarter results reflect significant purchase
accounting impacts and other items, the strong underlying
performance of our businesses continues to demonstrate that
we’re well positioned to deliver sustained  shareholder value ,”
Fairbank said in the statement. “We’re focused on delivering
that value, including distributing capital to shareholders
through a meaningful dividend and opportunistic share
buybacks.”  Capital One fell 1.7 percent to $54.89 in  New York  trading.
The shares have advanced 30 percent this year, compared with the
17 percent gain for the 24-company  KBW Bank Index. (BKX)   Expense Allowance  “We will build an allowance for these non-impaired loans
in Q2 and this will go through the provision expense line,”
Capital One Chief Financial Officer Gary Perlin said at an
investor conference June 13. “This expense should consume most
or all of one quarter’s normal income.”  Capital One’s provision for credit losses was $1.7 billion,
including $1.2 billion for the HSBC loans. The company released
$259 million in reserves based on “strong” credit performance
in its legacy businesses, according to the statement.  Revenue at Capital One, which primarily lends to U.S.
consumers through its credit-card unit and an auto-loan
business, is threatened by new regulatory regimes intended to
protect shoppers. The company also has a commercial-banking
business, and offers home loans.  The lender said second-quarter revenue climbed to $5.06
billion, a 27 percent increase from a year earlier.  Marketing Settlement  Capital One said earlier today it had agreed to pay a total
of $210 million to settle charges that third-party vendors
engaged in deceptive marketing of credit card “add-on”
products such as payment protection and credit monitoring. The
newly created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency said the lender agreed
to refund between $140 million and $150 million to 2 million
customers and pay an additional $60 million in penalties -- $25
million to the CFPB and $35 million to the OCC.  Capital One set aside $41 million in reserves to cover the
costs on top of the $75 million it marked last quarter. The
lender said it won’t recognize revenue for the products, $24
million of which was billed in the second quarter, according to
the statement.  Capital One said in a statement that it became aware of its
vendors’ practices in late 2011.  “We are accountable for the actions that vendors take on
our behalf,” Ryan Schneider, president of the card business,
said in the statement. “These marketing calls were inconsistent
with the explicit instructions we provided to agents for how
these products should be sold. We apologize to those customers
who were impacted and we are committed to making it right.”  Swipe Fees  The lender faces other threats. Capital One joined firms
including Visa Inc. and MasterCard Inc. in a settlement last
week of a seven-year price-fixing case brought by retailers over
credit-card swipe fees. The agreement provides for a temporary
reduction in interchange rates, which banks collect, and allows
merchants to impose surcharges on customer purchases, which may
push them into lower-cost options.  The surcharge rules and interchange could cut annual
earnings-per-share at Capital One by about 8 percent, Morgan
Stanley analysts led by Glenn Fodor wrote in a July 12 note.  Capital One took $27.6 billion in HSBC credit-card loans
onto its balance sheet in the quarter, and didn’t show any other
growth in its U.S. card business compared with the first
quarter. Auto loans climbed 7 percent over the first quarter,
while loans in the commercial-banking segment rose 3 percent.
Total deposits fell $2.6 billion from the first quarter.  Net interest margin, the difference between what the
company makes on loans and securities and what it pays for
funds, declined 0.16 percentage points to 6.04 percent.  Retail sales in the U.S. unexpectedly fell for a third
month in June, prompting economists at Morgan Stanley, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. and Credit Suisse Group AG to lower their
forecasts for economic growth in the second quarter. A cooling
job market is sapping the household spending that makes up 70
percent of the economy, curbing sales at retailers such as
Target Corp. and Macy’s Inc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 