-- Carney Holding Out Against Investors Betting on Canada Rate Cuts
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/carney-holding-out-against-investors-betting-on-canada-rate-cuts.html
Bank of  Canada  Governor  Mark Carney 
will offer a rationale today for why his next move may be a rate
increase even as he reduces Canada’s growth forecast and
investors bet on a cut.  Carney signaled the chance of tighter policy for a third
straight time yesterday, while he kept his  key lending rate  at 1
percent and pared his 2012 and 2013 forecasts for Canadian
growth. He will elaborate on that outlook in a Monetary Policy
Report at 10:30 a.m., followed by a press conference at 11:15
a.m., in Ottawa.  Just talking about a rate increase sets Canada apart from
central banks that are easing monetary policy, such as the U.S.
Federal Reserve, the  European Central Bank  and the People’s Bank
of  China . Investors have priced in a 25 percent change that
Carney will cut rates by the end of the year as the world’s 10th
largest economy is hampered by  Europe ’s fiscal crisis and a slow
U.S. recovery, according to trading in overnight index swaps.  “This is the story of the Bank of Canada over the last
few years,” said Thanos Bardas, a managing director in  Chicago 
at Neuberger Berman LLC, which oversees about $89 billion in
fixed-income assets. “Every time they would like to raise rates
because they think the economy is nearing full potential there
are external events that get in the way.”  The central bank trimmed its economic growth forecasts to
2.1 percent this year from 2.4 percent, and to 2.3 percent in
2013 from 2.4 percent. It also said the U.S. recovery is slowing
while Europe’s economy may contract again. Today’s report will
give new quarterly projections for economic growth and inflation
and details on the bank’s view that consumption and investment
will lead Canada’s  expansion .  ‘Big Cloud’  Avery Shenfeld , chief economist at  CIBC World Markets  in
Toronto, said he wants to see more on the central bank’s global
and U.S. forecasts today.  “They understand there is big cloud of uncertainty on any
forecast for 2013,” Shenfeld said.  Canada’s  benchmark  10-year bond yield dropped to a record
low Monday on demand for the safest assets, amid speculation the
 U.S. economy  is slowing. Yesterday the 2.75 percent security
maturing in June 2022 fell 23 cents to C$110.08, with the yield
rising 2 basis points to 1.64 percent.  The Canadian dollar appreciated against its U.S.
counterpart yesterday after the bank reiterated interest-rate
increases remain possible, while Canadian  stocks  gained for a
third day.  The  Bank of Canada  is “not seeing nearly enough of a
threat to growth to even think about the prospect of cutting
rates any time soon,” Shenfeld said.  Further Weakness  Carney probably needs to see signs of further economic
weakness from Europe or Canada before he would consider
abandoning the plan to raise rates, said  Sal Guatieri , senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto.  Another trigger would be a large shift in Canada’s
 inflation  outlook, Guatieri said. He pointed to the central bank
stable forecast for  core inflation , which is used as a guide to
future trends.  While economists say rate reductions are unlikely,
investors are equally skeptical Carney will follow through with
higher rates this year. With Europe’s turmoil continuing and Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  projecting slow progress in reducing
U.S. unemployment, swaps trading shows no chance of a Bank of
Canada increase by the end of the year.  However Carney’s statements are interpreted by investors,
the central bank’s hands aren’t tied, said Derek Burleton,
deputy chief economist at Toronto-Dominion Bank in Toronto.  “The bank’s entitled to change its view if things change
dramatically,” he said by telephone, adding a policy rate at
“one percent is still an emergency rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  