-- Central Bankers to Discuss Libor’s Future in September
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-07-19T02:16:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/central-bankers-to-discuss-libor-s-future-canada-says.html
Central bankers will join Bank of
England Governor  Mervyn King  in September for a meeting on the
possible future of the London interbank offered rate, with talks
to be followed the next week by discussion among policy makers
at the Financial Stability Board.  King suggested the meeting in a letter to his colleagues on
the Economic Consultative Committee, an informal body that
includes governors from the  Bank for International Settlements ,
the BIS general manager and central bankers from India and
Brazil.  “Discussions will begin amongst governors when they next
meet on September 9th (as suggested in Governor King’s
letter),” said  Jeremy Harrison , spokesman for Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney , who is also chairman of the FSB. The talks
will “continue with supervisors, regulators, central banks and
treasuries at the FSB when its Steering Committee meets the
following week,” he said.  At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide for potentially rigging the benchmark rates for at
least $500 trillion of securities.  The FSB will consider alternatives to Libor, Carney said
yesterday, adding he hasn’t done a broad consultation with the
group’s members. Central bankers have already discussed “a
coordinated global initiative to quickly and effectively restore
the integrity of this vital process,” Harrison said.  A spokeswoman for the Basel-based BIS declined to comment.
A spokesman for the  Bank of England  in London said that he
wouldn’t comment on private correspondence. Spokesmen for the
 European Central Bank  and Bundesbank in  Frankfurt  and the Bank
of France in Paris declined to comment.  ‘What Next’  Carney told reporters the allegations about Libor are
“deeply troubling,” adding that “public authorities have to
play the leading role in determining what next with Libor, and
if not Libor, what else to manage that transition.”  Carney added it’s possible the current Libor system, where
banks report their estimate of the cost to borrow from each
other over varying periods and in differing currencies, may not
be fixable. “There is an attraction to moving toward obviously
market based rates if possible,” he said.  Also speaking yesterday, U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said there “still are problems with the current
Libor system.”  “One strategy would be to switch to a market-based
indicator,” he said during testimony to the House Financial
Services Committee. Bernanke declined to endorse a specific rate,
though he said possibilities include “repo rates, the OIS index,
even potentially Treasury bill rates.” He was referring to the
overnight indexed swap rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  