-- Chesapeake’s Biggest Holder Backs CEO Amid Outstanding Probe
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-07-18T20:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/chesapeake-s-largest-investor-fought-ceo-well-perk-behind-scenes.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) ’s largest
shareholder expressed support for Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  as an internal probe of potential conflicts between
the CEO’s personal investments and corporate duties entered its
13th week.  McClendon was stripped of the chairman’s post he held for
23 years last month and more than half of Chesapeake’s directors
were replaced as Southeastern Asset Management Inc. and
billionaire Carl Icahn pushed for governance changes after
revelations that the CEO used private stakes in company wells to
obtain loans.  Chesapeake hasn’t said when the board will finish an
investigation that began on April 26 of McClendon’s personal
borrowings from some of the company’s biggest financiers.
Southeastern, whose 13.9 percent  stake  makes it Chesapeake’s
largest investor, said McClendon “has done an excellent job”
and satisfied the firm’s “good people” criteria.  “All of the leadership controversy is now moot,”
Southeastern CEO O. Mason Hawkins and Chief Investment Officer
G. Staley Cates said in a letter to shareholders posted on
Southeastern’s website today.  Chesapeake has dropped 14 percent this year as the impact
of tumbling natural-gas prices was compounded by disclosures
that McClendon borrowed more than $800 million last year to
finance his stakes in thousands of company-owned oil and gas
wells.  ‘Significant Changes’  “The board will finish its investigation when the work is
done,” Michael Kehs, a spokesman for Chesapeake, said in a
telephone interview today. He declined to speculate on a time
frame.  The combination of a plunging stock price and pressure from
Southeastern and  Carl Icahn  “brought the most significant
governance changes that we have ever witnessed at a company,”
Hawkins and Cates wrote.  McClendon, 53, co-founded Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake in
1989 with 10 employees and $50,000 in cash, building the company
into the largest U.S. gas producer by embracing new, intensive
drilling techniques overlooked by major international energy
explorers. Chesapeake remained the top U.S. gas supplier until
June 2010, when Exxon Mobil Corp. acquired XTO Energy.  ‘Different Conclusion’  Southeastern performed “even more due diligence than
normal” on McClendon before making its initial investment in
Chesapeake, Hawkins and Cates wrote.  “Through our multiple industry, client, professional, and
personal contacts, we gained insight about McClendon and arrived
at a different conclusion than the image currently portrayed”
by short sellers and the media, Hawkins and Staley wrote.  Southeastern’s opposition to the executive perk that
allowed McClendon to amass stakes in almost every well
Chesapeake drilled pre-dated the March and April media
revelations of McClendon’s personal borrowings. The perk, which
the company and McClendon have agreed to terminate in 2014, was
known as the Founders Well Participation Program, or FWPP.  “We fought against the FWPP behind the scenes well before
it dominated headlines,” Hawkins and Staley wrote.  McClendon apologized to shareholders twice in the past 3
months for the bad publicity surrounding his private
investments. The company said in a May 22 presentation prepared
for a UBS AG conference that it had withstood an “unprecedented
negative media campaign” that failed to reduce the value of its
assets.  Chesapeake fell 4 cents to $19.20 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  