-- China Money Rate Rises Most in a Month on Maturing Reverse Repos
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-07-18T09:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/china-money-rate-rises-most-in-a-month-on-maturing-reverse-repos.html
China’s overnight money-market rate
climbed the most in almost a month on concern cash supplies will
be reduced by reverse-repurchase contract redemptions.  A total of 50 billion  yuan  ($7.8 billion) in the agreements
will mature tomorrow after 155 billion yuan came due yesterday,
said Kumar Rachapudi, an interest-rate strategist at Barclays
Plc in  Singapore . The People’s Bank of China is set to auction
50 billion yuan of three-month treasury deposits on behalf of
the Ministry of Finance on July 24, according to a statement on
the ministry’s website.  “Maturing reverse repos this week are taking cash out of
the banking system,” Rachapudi said. “There are also corporate
dividend payments happening and, given the trend in foreign-
exchange flows, we should see money-market rates staying
elevated at these levels unless the PBOC injects further
liquidity.”  The overnight  repurchase rate , which measures interbank
funding availability, surged 32 basis points, or 0.32 percentage
point, to 2.96 percent as of 4:46 p.m. in  Shanghai , the biggest
gain since June 20, according to a weighted average compiled by
the National Interbank Funding Center. The  seven-day  repurchase
rate, which measures interbank funding availability, rose 19
basis points to 3.47 percent.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, increased five
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.55 percent, a
fourth day of advance, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the 3.51 percent government bonds due February
2022 slipped one basis point to 3.27 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  Foreign direct investment in the world’s second-largest
economy dropped 6.9 percent in June from a year earlier, the
government said yesterday, as  China ’s economic expansion cooled
to the slowest pace in three years in the second quarter. The
economy grew 7.6 percent from a year earlier, official data
showed on July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 