-- China Auto Financing Tripling by 2017 Spurs Vehicle Sales: Cars
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-18T23:40:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/china-auto-financing-tripling-by-2017-spurs-vehicle-sales-cars.html
Mia Zhao says her parents, part of
the generation that came of age in the 1970s, before  China 
introduced free-market reforms, would never spend beyond their
savings. Zhao, by contrast, has no problem with  debt  if it helps
her get the things she wants -- like an $88,000 BMW 530Li.  “Life would be unimaginable without credit,” said the
27-year-old dance instructor in Beijing, who bought the car in
January. “I don’t see why I can’t spend future money if I can
make the monthly payments.”  Zhao’s casual attitude toward borrowing -- in a country
with the world’s highest  savings  rate -- is a harbinger of a
generational shift that could spur a new wave of automobile
sales in China.  Companies such as market leaders  General Motors Co. (GM)  and
 Volkswagen AG (VOW) , and domestic producers like Chery Automobile Co.
have all formed auto-financing divisions. They stand to gain
since only 10 percent of vehicle purchases are financed by loans
in China, a ratio that China Minzu Securities Co. estimates will
triple by 2017 as more of the nation’s youths buy their first
cars.  “The next five years will be the golden era for China’s
auto financing business,” said Cao He, an analyst with Minzu in
Beijing.  Auto financing companies provided about 200 billion yuan
($31 billion) of loans last year, according to carmaker
 Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. (GNZUF)  The China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers projects the market for vehicle loans
will expand to 525 billion  yuan  by 2025.  Auto Loans  Those prospects bode well for GM’s local auto-financing
venture, GMAC-SAIC Automotive Finance Co., which in 2004 began
providing loans for Buick, Chevrolet and Cadillac cars. It now
manages 35 billion yuan in assets.  “We have recently seen a strong increase in young
customers,” Rick Livingood, general manager of GMAC-SAIC, said
in an e-mail. “The post-80s generation, which tends to be more
open to credit consumption and has a certain auto purchasing
power, has gradually entered employment.”  To cater to growing ranks of those buyers, GMAC-SAIC offers
loans with low initial monthly installments that increase over
time. The plan, at first available only for Chevys, was offered
to Buick customers last year.  Young Buyers  Volkswagen, the No. 2 foreign manufacturer in China after
GM, plans to invest 2 billion yuan to expand auto-financing in
China this year, said Cai Xue, a VW spokeswoman in Beijing. The
company’s auto loan business rose 56 percent in 2011, and the
finance unit now offers loans targeted at customers looking to
upgrade to more expensive models. Buyers 25 to 45 years of age
accounted for almost 80 percent of the loans as of last year,
the company said.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  says its China loans portfolio
has risen to more than 10 billion yuan, a six-fold increase over
2010. BMW forecasts that a quarter of all auto purchases in
China will be funded by loans in three years and that half will
be financed by 2025.  “Young Chinese are very comfortable with the idea of
credit to buy big-ticket items,” said  Shaun Rein , managing
director of China Market Research in Shanghai. “It doesn’t make
sense for them to have to work for 5 to 10 years to save up for
it.”  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , the biggest Japanese automaker by sales
in China, sees credit going down-market. Currently, buyers of
expensive cars seek financing while those who want more modest
vehicles typically pay cash, said Kimiyasu Nakamura, president
of Nissan’s joint venture, Dongfeng Motor Co.  Financing Risks  “We think there will be more and more young people using
our loan products when they buy cheaper cars,” Nakamura said
last month at a Nissan event in the northern port city of
Dalian, where the automaker is building a new plant.  The surge in demand for financing has some risks. One
problem is that checking the credit-worthiness of every buyer
can be labor intensive, said Yale Zhang, managing director at
Autoforesight  Shanghai  Co.  “If you want to make the process fast, the only way is to
loosen it up,” Zhang said. ’’That’s the danger.’’  Non-performing auto loans surged in the 1990s, owing to a
lack of risk controls such as credit scoring. That led the
central bank to suspend new auto loans from 1996 to 1998,
according to He Liming, head of the China Automobile Dealers
Association.  Loan Restrictions  The banking regulator again tightened lending rules in 2008
after an explosion of bad loans in the late 1990s. Today, the
China Banking Regulatory Commission requires that auto loans not
exceed five years for new cars and three years for second-hand
purchases. Buyers can borrow as much as 80 percent of the price
of a new car, and 50 percent for pre-owned passenger vehicles.  That’s not hindering the credit culture that’s taking root
in China. The China Banking Association estimates credit card
transactions rose 48 percent in 2011 to 7.6 trillion yuan,
according to the official Xinhua News Agency. Credit card
balances overdue for more than six months rose 9.1 percent from
the previous quarter to 12 billion yuan as of the end of March,
the  People’s Bank of China  reports.  Still, Li Xincheng, chairman of dealership chain Guangcheng
Auto Group, is confident history won’t repeat itself. About 0.5
percent of loans at his dealerships go sour, far below the worst
days two decades ago, he said.  “Things are different now from the 90s,” said Li, whose
dealerships sell cars from GM,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda
Motor Co. (7267)  “The level of affluence is higher, the credit
checking system is more robust. People can forget about getting
credit in the future if they default on their auto loans.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  