-- China City Officials Must Reveal Assets for Promotions
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-18T09:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/china-s-huai-an-officials-needs-to-disclose-assets-to-each-other.html
(Corrects spelling of Huai’an in second paragraph.)  A Chinese city seeking to clamp down
on corruption ordered officials to disclose all their family
assets on an internal website as a requirement for promotion.  Officials with the position of section head and higher in
the eastern city of Huai’an must disclose all their property,
their investment portfolios and the timing and price of vehicle
purchases, according to a statement posted on a city government
 website  today. There was no provision in the rules for the
assets to be revealed publicly.  The move comes after efforts by top Chinese leaders to
prohibit lavish banquets and luxury expenses. The ruling
Communist Party is seeking to bolster its image ahead of a
leadership transition later this year and after scandals
including the ouster of Chongqing Party Secretary  Bo Xilai .  Asset disclosure “is considered widely to be a sunshine
act and anti-graft tool,” the city government said in the
statement. It cited comments by Premier  Wen Jiabao  last year in
which he said an open system is fundamental in preventing
corruption.  The government of Wenzhou, a Chinese city where slowing
growth has spurred dozens of suicides, bankruptcies and
disappearances by local businessmen, imposed a limit of 60  yuan 
a person for work-related meals and barred officials from
expensing abalone, shark fin, and sea cucumber, the Wenzhou city
Commission for Discipline Inspection said on July 5.  Spouses and children living in the same household as city
officials must disclose equity investments and companies
registered under their names, the commission said. Assets must
be disclosed on an internal website, according to the Huai’an
rules, which take effect Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yidi Zhao in Beijing at 
 yzhao7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at 
 jliu42@bloomberg.net  