-- China’s Chen Awarded for Efforts Curbing 300 Million Smokers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-07-18T06:54:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/china-s-chen-awarded-for-efforts-curbing-300-million-smokers-1-.html
Chen Zhu,  China ’s Health Minister,
was recognized by the  World Health Organization  for his efforts
fighting tobacco in a country of 300 million smokers.  WHO Director-General Margaret Chan praised Chen’s
contribution to tobacco control in China, which introduced
smoke-free hospitals and cities in recent years, and promoted
smoking cessation with a telephone helpline in four cities.  About 1 million people in China die annually from heart
attack, cancer and other tobacco-related diseases, the Geneva-
based WHO said in a statement today. Chen, 59, the first and
sole minister-level Chinese official who doesn’t belong to any
political party, is trying to improve the way  tobacco companies 
are regulated, he said in an interview in March, adding that
commercial activities of the companies “should be totally
separate from administrative supervision.”  “Your work is not easy, with a powerful state-owned
tobacco industry,” Chan said of Chen at an award ceremony in
Beijing today. “Much of your excellent work was hampered by
interference from the tobacco industry. We need to hit the
tobacco industry with a big hammer. Let’s do it together.”  Tobacco presents a dilemma in China, the world’s biggest
producer and consumer of the aromatic leaves, as the industry
regulator the State Tobacco Monopoly Administration also runs
the world’s biggest cigarette maker, China National Tobacco
Corp. The state-owned industry had net income of more than $18
billion and generated more than $95 billion of  tax revenue  last
year.  More Laws  Legislators are “actively preparing” to introduce more
tobacco-control laws and have sent research teams overseas to
conduct surveys and acquire knowledge, Xinhua reported last
week.  China’s tobacco deaths may continue to increase until as
late as 2030, the official Xinhua News Agency said on July 12,
citing Liang Xiaofeng, deputy director of the Chinese Center for
Disease Control and Prevention.  The volume of cigarettes sold in China is expected to
expand 14 percent annually during the five years through 2015,
researcher Euromonitor International said in a July 2011 report.  Rules banning smoking in public places from May 2011 were
criticized for being ineffective in tackling smoking due to the
lack of laws to enforce the restrictions.  Every year, WHO recognizes individuals or organizations in
each of its six regional areas for their accomplishments in
tobacco control. The Prime Minister of  Kazakhstan  and an
official from  Brazil  also received Director General Special
Awards this year for tobacco control.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  