-- Chinese Subsidies Led to Abound’s Failure, Chief Tells Congress
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-07-18T17:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/chinese-subsidies-led-to-abound-s-failure-chief-tells-congress.html
Abound Solar Inc., a solar-panel
maker that shut after borrowing $70 million from the U.S.,
couldn’t compete with Chinese companies selling items below
production costs, the company’s ex-chief executive said.  As panel  prices  fell 50 percent in a year amid “aggressive
price-cutting from Chinese competitors,” the U.S. Energy
Department in August stopped lending to Abound, adding to the
financial strain, Craig Witsoe, Abound’s chief executive officer
when it closed, told a House Oversight and Government Reform
Committee stimulus oversight panel hearing today.  Abound was awarded a $400 million loan guarantee and drew
down about $70 million before the payments were suspended. The
company attracted about $300 million from investors.  House Republicans  have held several hearings this year to
criticize the Energy Department’s $16 billion clean-energy loan
guarantee program after companies such as Abound, solar-panel
maker Solyndra LLC and  Beacon Power Corp. (BCONQ) , an energy-storage
company, sought  bankruptcy protection .  Republicans led by subcommittee chairman  Jim Jordan  of Ohio
said Abound’s bankruptcy was proof that the department put tax
dollars at risk.  Supporters said the program’s financial losses were less
than anticipated and noted Democrats and Republicans supported
the program before Solyndra’s bankruptcy in September, two years
after it won a $535 million loan guarantee.  Representative Dennis Kucinich, an Ohio Democrat, said
Republicans hadn’t offered evidence backing up allegations of a
“broad scandal” or “cronyism” in the program.  Attacking Businesses  “We’re attacking our own business people, and meanwhile,
the Chinese are eating our lunch in this market,” Kucinich
said.  Most of the lawmaker’s questions were directed at  Jonathan
Silver , former director of the Energy Department loan office,
and not Witsoe or Tom Tiller, the company’s former chairman who
was also called to testify.  Republicans led by panel Chairman  Darrell Issa  of
California suggested Silver’s use of his personal e-mail account
to discuss the loan-guarantee program may have violated federal
records laws.  Silver, now a senior visiting fellow of the Third Way, a
Washington-based group that describes itself as supporting
“centrist” political policies, gave the committee about 2,000
e-mails from his personal account.  He said he used his personal e-mail because accessing the
Energy Department e-mail account remotely was cumbersome and
reading attached documents with a department-issued Blackberry
device was difficult.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  