-- Civil Rights Groups Seek to Stop Arizona Immigration Law
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/civil-rights-groups-seek-to-stop-arizona-immigration-law.html
Civil rights groups asked a federal
judge to block a provision of  Arizona ’s immigration law left
standing by the U.S. Supreme Court, saying the provision they
termed “show me your papers” provision is unconstitutional.  Lawyers for the  American Civil Liberties Union , the
National Immigration Law Center and the Mexican American Legal
Defense and Educational Fund said in a filing yesterday in
federal court in Phoenix that the provision, which requires
officers conducting a stop or detention to verify a person’s
immigration status, violates the U.S. Constitution.  The groups asked for a court order blocking the provision
from going into effect, which they said in a statement could
happen in a “few days” without court action.  “In a state that’s more than 30 percent Latino, requiring
police to act as immigration agents is an invitation to racial
profiling on a massive scale,” Omar Jadwat, a lawyer with the
ACLU Immigrants’ Rights Project, said in the statement.  The Obama administration sued to challenge S.B. 1070, as
the Arizona law is known, saying it encroached on the exclusive
federal right to set immigration policy.  The  Supreme Court  in June struck down much of Arizona’s
2010 immigration law on grounds that states must defer to the
federal government on immigration policy. The Supreme Court said
the requirement on police checks of immigration status could
take effect, while leaving open the possibility of new legal
challenges to the provision.  Five States  Arizona’s law was the first of its kind when enacted in
2010. Since then,  Alabama , South Carolina,  Georgia ,  Utah  and
 Indiana  have all passed their own measures aimed at illegal
immigration. All are facing court fights.  Arizona has argued it has the right to act because the U.S.
government hasn’t done enough and it doesn’t have to defer to
federal priorities. The state’s 370-mile border with  Mexico  is
the crossing point for half the nation’s illegal immigrants,
Arizona said.  Amy Rezzonico , a spokeswoman for Arizona Attorney General
Tom Horne, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail after regular
business hours seeking comment on the case.  In yesterday’s filings, the groups said they are submitting
additional evidence that the provision will be implemented in a
way that the Supreme Court said in its June 25 decision would
raise constitutional concerns, namely that state officers will
extend detentions to verify immigration status.  Detentions Extended  “Nothing in the state’s newly reissued training materials
on S.B. 1070 indicates that section 2(B) cannot be used to
extend detentions solely for immigration purposes, nor do these
materials set any limit on the length of time an individual can
be held pending the results of immigration verification
requests,” the civil rights groups said in the filing,
referring to the so-called show-me-your-papers provision.  “Moreover, in the short amount of time since the Supreme
Court ruled, multiple Arizona law enforcement officials have
publicly stated that implementation of section 2(B) will in fact
cause officers to detain individuals for immigration status
verification when they would not otherwise have been detained,”
the groups said.  The case is Valle del Sol v. Whiting, 10-01061, U.S.
District Court, District of Arizona (Phoenix.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  