-- CME Seen Needing CBOE as Profit Woes Spur Speculation
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g ,   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g   a n d   W i l l   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-07-18T20:25:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/cme-seen-needing-cboe-as-profit-woes-spur-speculation.html
For  CME (CME)  Group Inc. to improve the
exchange industry’s worst profit outlook, the owner of the
Chicago Mercantile Exchange needs only to look across the street
to  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE) , home of the biggest U.S. options market.  CME’s net income will decline 19 percent in the next three
years, according to analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.
CBOE, a $2.47 billion company forecast to boost profit 26
percent in the same period, has  rallied  more than every
developed-market peer of similar size during the past two months
and reached the  richest  price-earnings ratio versus the industry
since September, the data show. That may be a sign of takeover
speculation, according to Caldwell Securities Ltd.  Macquarie Group Ltd. and Sandler O’Neill & Partners LP say
CME would be the most logical suitor because it owns a quarter
of S&P Dow Jones Indices, which has given CBOE exclusive rights
to one of its biggest moneymakers: trading Standard & Poor’s 500
Index options. Expanding into equity options would provide new
revenue for the largest U.S. derivatives exchange owner in a
market that set a ninth straight annual volume record in 2011.  CBOE’s “stock is telling you something is happening,”
 Thomas Caldwell , who oversees about $1 billion as chairman and
chief executive officer of Toronto-based Caldwell Securities and
owns CBOE shares, said in a phone interview. “It’s one of the
few bright spots in the exchange space worldwide, so that in
itself should command a premium,” Caldwell said. “CME’s
position would be unassailable” with a purchase of CBOE.  Corn, Crude  Carol Kennedy, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based CBOE,
declined to comment on the company’s prospects for being bought.
Michael Shore of CME also declined to comment.  Founded in the 19th century, CME’s business spans
agricultural, energy, metal and financial futures tracking
products such as corn, crude oil, gold and  interest rates . The
Chicago-based company that’s valued at $17.5 billion has
expanded in the past decade with deals, buying the Chicago Board
of Trade and New York Mercantile Exchange owner Nymex Holdings
Inc. The purchases cemented CME’s dominance in futures, giving
it a U.S. market share of about 98 percent.  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange , started in 1973 as the
first U.S. equity derivatives market, became the last major
American bourse to convert to shareholder ownership with its
2010 initial public offering. Former members of the Chicago
Board of Trade, now owned by CME, helped found the options
market. Their fight over ownership rights delayed CBOE’s IPO.  Fed’s Decision  Net income at CME will fall to $1.46 billion in 2014 from
$1.81 billion last year, according to analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. The  Federal Reserve ’s decision to hold
borrowing costs near record lows since December 2008 has helped
slow CME’s volume for interest-rate futures, its most-traded
product. In January, the central bank said it plans to keep
holding down rates through at least late 2014, meaning investors
have less need to hedge the risk that rates will rise.  At the same time, more than  4.6 billion  contracts changed
hands last year, continuing a streak of annual records that
began in 2003, data compiled by OCC show. Transactions are now
spread out across 10 venues, including those run by  NYSE
Euronext (NYX) ,  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and  Deutsche Boerse AG. (DB1)  CBOE
captured the most total market share in June with 30 percent of
U.S. trading on its two bourses.  S&P Dow Jones Indices, owned 24.4 percent by CME, 73
percent by McGraw-Hill Cos. and the rest by  News Corp ., has
granted exclusive licenses to CME for futures based on the  S&P
500  and to CBOE for options on the benchmark measure of U.S.
stocks. That shared connection would probably make it easier for
CME to buy CBOE, said  Richard Repetto , an analyst at Sandler
O’Neill in New York. CBOE’s license expires in 2018.  Valuation Premium  Repetto estimates CBOE gets at least 30 percent of net
income from S&P 500 options. Shares of the exchange have rallied
15 percent since their 2012 low on May 17, beating every
developed-market peer valued at $2 billion or more, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. The gain drove its price-earnings
ratio to 17.4, 19 percent more than the valuation for the
Bloomberg World Exchanges Index of companies with an average
market capitalization of about $4.2 billion. The ratio was 20
percent higher on June 18, the most since September.  “CBOE is attractive as an acquisition to large
exchanges,” said  Ed Ditmire , a New York-based analyst at
Macquarie. “After all, it’s somewhat bite-sized relative to
other public exchanges,” he said. With S&P Dow Jones Indices,
“CME would have the best chance of finding comfort with the
continuation of that contract, in addition to the obvious
Chicago advantage that they’d have,” Ditmire added.  Today, CBOE shares added 0.7 percent to $28.40, the highest
level since March 30.  Electronic Trading  CBOE’s profit increased 40 percent to $139.4 million last
year. Analysts  project  net income will rise to $176 million in
2014, according to the average estimate.  The company has introduced new products as a way to
diversify revenue before the exclusive license with S&P Dow
Jones Indices expires. It started electronic trading of options
on the S&P 500, known as SPXpm, last year. In 2012, the company
began a new pricing structure, called the volume incentive
program, which aims to increase business by giving discounts to
bigger trades.  While Repetto and Ditmire say a deal is possible, neither
see one as imminent.  During a June presentation in New York, Phupinder Gill, who
became CME’s CEO this year when  Craig Donohue  retired, didn’t
mention acquisitions as a driver of future growth. Instead, he
focused on the partnerships and regulatory changes requiring
most over-the-counter swaps to be guaranteed with clearinghouses
such as the one owned by CME.  More Innovation  “Our focus will continue, over the next five to 10 years,
being on internationalization and globalizing the client base
that we have now,” Gill told the prospective investors in the
audience. “OTC trades are now going to be deemed mandatory to
be cleared. That’s going to lead to innovation, the next set of
innovation, which up to this point in time has been difficult
for the exchanges to actually crack.”  More than $32 billion in global exchange takeover attempts
announced since October 2010 have failed to close, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Regulators blocked  Singapore
Exchange Ltd. (SGX) ’s offer for Sydney-based ASX Ltd. and two bids for
New York-based NYSE Euronext -- one from  Deutsche Boerse  of
Frankfurt and a combined attempt from New York-based Nasdaq OMX
and IntercontinentalExchange Inc. of Atlanta.  Competition Risk  The Nasdaq-ICE hostile merger offer proposed breaking up
NYSE Euronext, with Nasdaq OMX combining the firm’s stock-
trading operations with its own. That would have given Nasdaq
OMX about half of total U.S. equities volume. The U.S.
Department of Justice said the union would have curbed
competition. European officials blocked Deutsche Boerse’s deal
for NYSE Euronext because it would have given the combined
entity more than 90 percent of the region’s exchange-traded
derivatives market.  CBOE’s 30 percent market share in options last month
compared with NYSE Euronext’s 23 percent, Nasdaq OMX’s 23
percent and Deutsche Boerse’s 16 percent through its stake in
the  International Securities Exchange , according to data
compiled by Chicago-based OCC, which clears all exchange-traded
contracts in the U.S.  The odds that regulators would block CME from buying CBOE
are lower because the company doesn’t already offer equity
options, said Jeffrey Spigel, head of the antitrust practice at
King & Spalding in Washington.  “Certainly it removes an issue the others have had in the
past,” he said. A bid by the other companies “would be a lot
more difficult,” he said.  $3 Billion  Rich Adamonis , a spokesman for NYSE Euronext, Nasdaq OMX’s
Robert Madden and Deutsche Boerse’s  Frank Herkenhoff  declined to
comment on whether their companies are interested in CBOE.  A takeover of CBOE would probably cost $3 billion, or 22
percent more than yesterday’s market value, and CME is the most
likely acquirer, according to  Keith Wirtz , who oversees $15
billion as chief investment officer at Fifth Third Asset
Management in Cincinnati.  “The idea of the globalization of these exchanges is the
business concept that’s been attempted, but it’s hard to do
these cross-border mergers with the exchanges,” he said in a
phone interview. With CBOE and CME, both are “headquartered in
Chicago. There are some obvious consolidations that could
benefit the income statement.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net ;
Will Robinson in New York at 
 wrobinson11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  