-- Cogeco Cable Buying Atlantic Broadband to Expand in U.S.
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-07-18T21:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/cogeco-cable-buying-atlantic-broadband-to-expand-in-u-s-.html
Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA) , a Montreal-based
cable-television company, agreed to buy Atlantic Broadband for
$1.36 billion, letting it expand into the U.S. after a failed
attempt to gain a foothold in Europe.  Cogeco is purchasing the company from private-equity firms
Abry Partners and Oak Hill  Capital Partners  in a deal that’s
expected to be completed by year-end, the Canadian company said
today in a statement. Quincy, Massachusetts-based Atlantic
Broadband operates cable systems in  Pennsylvania , Florida,
 Maryland ,  Delaware  and  South Carolina .  For Cogeco, today’s deal raises investor concerns that the
company is making another risky international gamble, sending
the shares down as much as 17 percent. Cogeco is pushing into
the U.S. after abandoning the struggling European market, where
it wrote off the value of its Portuguese acquisition Cabovisao-
Televisao por Cabo SA and lost $248 million last year.  “The company has announced another surprise acquisition in
a new operating territory,” Andrew Calder, an analyst at  RBC
Capital Markets  in Toronto, said in a note to clients.
“Investors will be hoping that the competitive conditions and
execution prove to be more favorable this time around.”  Cogeco shares  tumbled  15 percent to C$37.90 at the close in
Toronto, the biggest decline in six years. The shares had fallen
13 percent this year through yesterday.  Charter Origins  The transaction is Cogeco’s biggest acquisition as a public
company, more than double the size of its 2006 purchase of
Cabovisao-Televisao for about $600 million.  Atlantic Broadband was formed in 2003 after it purchased
cable systems from St. Louis-based Charter Communications Inc.
It currently ranks as the 14th-largest U.S. cable operator,
according to the company’s  website .  Atlantic Broadband serves about 252,000 basic video
customers, and provides cable, phone and Internet to rural
communities. That suits Cogeco’s experience of offering service
in less-populated areas of Quebec and Ontario, Chief Executive
Officer Louis Audet said.  “There is room as you can see for further U.S. growth, in
contrast to  Canada ,” he said on a conference call today.  The purchase helps reduce Cogeco’s dependence on its
market, where it competes with larger cable operators  Rogers
Communications Inc. (RCI/B) , BCE Inc., Telus Corp. and Shaw
Communications Inc.  “This is an attractive entry point into the  United
States ,” Audet said. The deal also positions Cogeco to make
further “tuck-in” acquisitions, he said.  Falling Margins  Cable consolidation allows companies to avoid paying
duplicate programming fees while combining their sales forces
and paring infrastructure costs. Smaller operators are under
pressure to merge because programming fees are climbing about 7
percent to 10 percent a year, eating into their profit margins.  The Cogeco transaction follows several strategic cable
acquisitions, including  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) ’s $3 billion
takeover of Insight Communications Co. in February and
WideOpenWest LLC’s deal completed yesterday to buy Knology for
about $1.5 billion including debt.  Cogeco is paying 8.3 times Atlantic Broadband’s estimated
annual earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, the company said in the statement. Time Warner
Cable paid 8.6 times Ebitda, while WOW paid 7.7 times, according
to Bloomberg Industries.  Cogeco is paying about $5,400 on a per subscriber basis.
That compares with $4,418 in the Time Warner deal, and $5,486 in
the WOW transaction, the Bloomberg Industries data show.  Bloomberg reported in May that Atlantic was seeking a sale
at a price of about $1.4 billion. Gleacher & Co. was the
financial adviser on the transaction, Cogeco said. Bank of
America Merrill Lynch served as sole lead arranger and providing
debt financing at Atlantic Broadband.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  