-- Congress Needs to Lose Its Too-Big-to-Fail Status
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-07-18T22:30:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/congress-needs-to-lose-its-too-big-to-fail-status.html
Last August, as part of an agreement
to raise the U.S. debt ceiling, Congress created the Joint
Select Committee on  Deficit Reduction  to come up with a minimum
of $1.2 trillion of cuts over the next 10 years.  Failure of the so-called supercommittee to produce a bill
with at least that much in savings would trigger automatic
spending cuts of an equal amount, divided equally between
defense and nondefense spending, starting in 2013.  “The sequester wasn’t meant to be implemented,” Jeffrey Zients, the acting director of the Office of Management and
Budget, said in a  July 10 op-ed  on Politico.com. “It was
designed to cause cuts so deep that just threatening them would
force members of Congress to agree on a big, balanced package of
deficit reduction.”  The stick was about as terrifying as the carrot was
tempting. The supercommittee failed to reach an agreement on
spending cuts, or, more correctly, cuts in the growth of
 government spending . Now lawmakers insist that the sequester
can’t happen, with Republicans warning of the risks from gutting
the military, and Democrats whining about slashing domestic
programs. Zients agrees, saying the cuts “would be terrible for
our country” and “don’t have to happen.”  In other words, Congress isn’t accountable for its actions.  Bailed Out  Sound familiar? An institution makes decisions or takes
actions, the consequences of which are so dire -- think
“systemic risk” -- that they necessitate an intervention or a
bailout. The big banks? Try the  U.S. Congress . The same too-big-
to-fail principle applies. Maybe the same break-them-up  solution 
does, too.  The banks failed to perform due diligence when they made
loans to unqualified homebuyers. They sold the mortgages before
the ink was dry to investment banks that packaged, sliced and
diced the loans and sold pieces to investors. When the pile of
bad debt threatened to sink the financial system, the  Federal
Reserve  and U.S. government stepped in to rescue the banks in
order to save the economy from collapse.  The same holds true for Congress, which acted irresponsibly
(again) by focusing on short-term fixes instead of long-term
solutions to the  deficit . Now, with the expiration of an array
of tax cuts and spending measures threatening to send the
economy into recession, according to  budget experts , lawmakers
get a second chance.  Senator  Patty Murray , Democrat of  Washington , said earlier
this week that her party was ready to let the economy drive over
the  fiscal cliff  if Republicans didn’t agree to raise taxes on
top earners. This seems more like a negotiating ploy than a real
threat. If businesses really are holding off on new  investments 
until they see how things play out, then doing nothing runs the
risk of weakening the economy further and angering voters in
November.  At the last minute, our elected representatives will
probably patch something together to avert the fiscal cliff. In
other words, like the banks, they will live to die another day.  Perhaps we should think about breaking up the legislative
body, or the equivalent: shortening the lifespan of any class of
lawmakers.  There’s only one problem: It would take a constitutional
amendment, as dictated by a 1995  Supreme Court decision . The
president’s term is already limited to two by the 22nd
Amendment. It would be much more difficult to get two-thirds of
both houses of Congress to effectively vote themselves out of
office.  That said, 185 members of the House and Senate have signed
the  U.S. Term Limits Constitutional Amendment Pledge , which
would limit terms to three in the House and two in the Senate. A
handful of lawmakers, including Senator  Tom Coburn , Republican
of  Oklahoma , have imposed  term limits  on themselves.  Opinion
polls  suggest that 70 percent or more of the public favors
limited terms in office for members of Congress. (Voters seem to
make an exception for their own representative.)  Ruling Class  The nation’s Founding Fathers were afraid of creating a
permanent ruling class, like the English aristocracy, and
believed in rotation in office -- an idea that dates back to
ancient  Greece . One of the founders,  George Mason , saw value in
legislators returning to live among constituents in order to
“participate in their burdens.”  James Madison  worried that
legislators seeking re-election would serve their narrow self-
interest at the expense of the country’s.  He was right to worry. The U.S. has created something akin
to a permanent political class, with the  incumbency rate  for the
House averaging 93 percent over the last 24 elections.  “Few things in life are more predictable than the chances
of an incumbent member of the U.S. House of Representatives
winning re-election,” the Center for Responsive Politics wryly
notes in a comment on its website.  It makes you wonder what all the fuss over “ wave
elections ” is about if incumbency confers such a powerful
advantage.  Wouldn’t we be better off if the U.S. enacted  term limits 
to force frequent rotation in office? Something automatic -- at
least more automatic than next year’s spending cuts, which are
unlikely to happen.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a pricey new weapon for
 fighting AIDS  and on the Pentagon’s upcoming  budget war ;  Michael
Kinsley  on why  Mitt Romney’s faith  is his best asset;  Ezra Klein 
on the  Romney who could’ve been ; Amir Sufi on  eminent domain as
an answer  to housing debt;  Nell Minow  on the  zombies  hanging
around corporate boardrooms.  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  