-- Could New Anti-HIV Pill Reshape AIDS Strategy in Africa?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-07-18T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/could-new-anti-hiv-pill-reshape-aids-strategy-in-africa-.html
Public health experts gained another
weapon in their battle against AIDS on Monday, when the U.S.
 Food and Drug Administration   approved  an HIV drug for preventive
use. This will help pave the way for its authorization in
 developing countries .  The drug, called Truvada, is expensive, but if deployed
smartly could do considerable good in Africa.  Made by California-based  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , Truvada has
been used to treat HIV since 2004, and now will be available by
prescription in the U.S. to use as a prophylactic against
infection. In three trials, the drug prescribed daily reduced
the chances of acquiring HIV by  44  percent,  63  percent and  73 
percent; in one trial, it failed to show efficacy.  Using HIV medication for prevention, a strategy called pre-
exposure prophylaxis or PrEP, entails risks. The FDA required
Gilead to  include warnings  that the new use of Truvada is only
for people who are confirmed to be HIV-negative and who are
tested every three months during use. The tests are needed
because a person on the regimen who is unknowingly HIV positive
could develop a drug-resistant strain of the virus, which could
then be passed along to others.  Also, the strategy is expensive compared with the
alternative, condoms. In  Africa , where manufacturers offer HIV
drugs at discounts, Truvada costs far less than the  $24.67  per
200 mg tablet it sells for in the U.S. Still, by one estimate,
the total annual cost there to use the drug preventively would
be about  $150 . That’s a considerable sum in the poorest
countries, though it’s a fraction of the roughly $600 a year
cost of treating an HIV infection.  A PrEP regimen will require a significant shift in the way
the fight against AIDS is waged in Africa. In the past, public
health professionals have leaned on broad-based campaigns such
as mass condom giveaways or roadside billboards. The costs and
risks associated with the medication render this approach
unsuitable. It makes sense to promote it only in the high-risk
pool for which the FDA approved it in the U.S.: gay men,
individuals in a sexual relationship with someone who is HIV
positive, prostitutes and sexually active residents of high-
incidence communities.  This will be a challenge for health workers in the
developing world. They will need to learn more about often-
ostracized populations, earn their trust, track the virus and
get Truvada into the right hands. Those using the medicine will
have to be regularly tested for HIV; they will also have to be
counseled to reduce the chances that, once on Truvada, they
become sexually reckless.  This will cost money. But mathematical  models  indicate that
HIV drugs used for prevention can save money in the long run, if
they are targeted to people in the greatest danger.  With AIDS assistance to the developing world hard-hit by
the economic meltdown,  falling 10 percent  from 2009 to 2010 to
$6.9 billion, it has become especially important to invest
wisely. Truvada passes the test. Although still alarmingly high,
the estimated number of people infected with HIV in 2010 (2.7
million) was  21 percent  lower than the peak in 1997. This new
option has the potential to hasten the trend.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the Pentagon’s upcoming
 budget war ;  Caroline Baum  on  term limits  for Congress;  Michael
Kinsley  on why  Mitt Romney’s faith  is his best asset;  Ezra Klein 
on the  Romney who could’ve been ; Amir Sufi on  eminent domain as
an answer  to housing debt;  Nell Minow  on the  zombies  hanging
around corporate boardrooms.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 