-- Credit Suisse Plans $15.6 Billion Capital Increase
-- B y   G i l e s   B r o o m   a n d   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-07-18T13:47:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/credit-suisse-boosts-capital-plans-additional-cost-cuts.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  Chief
Executive Officer Brady Dougan succumbed to pressure from the
central bank and senior executives within his firm to increase
capital by 15.3 billion francs ($15.6 billion).  The lender will also cut an additional 1 billion francs in
costs by the end of 2013, the Zurich-based bank said in a
 statement  today. Second-quarter net income rose 2.6 percent to
788 million francs from a year earlier, the company said. Credit
Suisse shares rose as much as 6.8 percent.  Dougan, 52, said the measures will almost double the bank’s
capital ratio from levels at the end of March, which the  Swiss
National Bank  said required a “marked increase.” While Dougan
led Credit Suisse through the 2008 financial crisis without
state aid, he faced mounting public criticism and internal
dissent after the shares of  Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank
slumped to a 20-year low following the SNB’s June 14 comments.  “Brady has bitten the bullet today and these capital
measures are welcome, but they’re rather late,” said
 Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at Mediobanca SpA,
who has a neutral rating on the stock. “He was the CEO of a
bank at the end of the second quarter 2009 that was seen as a
crisis winner. And yet profitability and capital weren’t dealt
with promptly enough.”  Removing Doubts  Credit Suisse rose 4.4 percent to 17.89 francs by 3:21 p.m.
in Zurich trading, paring gains from earlier today, which were
the highest in six months. The stock, which is down 19 percent
so far this year, slumped more than 10 percent on June 14 follow
the central bank’s comments in its annual financial stability
report. The 38-company Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial
Services Index is down 3.1 percent this year.  Dougan said today’s actions should remove any doubts raised
by the SNB’s report.  “This is a robust and balanced set of capital initiatives,
close to 80 percent of which are non-dilutive,” he said in a
statement. “Over the past five years and prior to these
measures, we have maintained one of the strongest capital levels
in the industry with minimal dilution to our shareholders.”  The bank expects a Basel III capital ratio of 10.8 percent
by the end of the year, compared with 5.9 percent the SNB cited
in its financial stability report in June, it said. The capital
ratio includes common equity, contingent convertible bonds and
the partial use of participation securities, called Claudius
notes, Credit Suisse said. The capital ratio for UBS AG, the
biggest Swiss bank, was 7.5 percent at the end of March,
according to the SNB report.  Regulatory Pressure  “The problem of the two large Swiss banks is that the
regulatory pressure is enormously high,” said  Dirk Becker , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets who has a
“reduce” rating on Credit Suisse. “They will be forced to hold
enormous amounts of capital, which will make it impossible for
them to achieve reasonable returns.”  The measures announced today may lead to dilution of about
15 percent based on “back-of-the-envelope calculations,”
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts Kian Abouhossein and Amit Ranjan
said in a note.  Dougan, who said after the SNB report that he didn’t plan
to increase capital, was urged by some employees to reconsider
and put an end to questions about the firm’s capital strength,
four senior managers said in interviews last month.  Positive View  “Concerns in the market about Credit Suisse’s capital
position should take the back seat” now, Andreas Venditti, an
analyst at Zuercher Kantonalbank AG with a market perform rating
on the stock, wrote in a note. “It’s positive in our view.”  The bank will increase capital by 8.7 billion francs
immediately, partly by selling notes that convert into 234
million shares in March at the price of 16.29 francs a share.
The notes may convert earlier if the bank’s core capital ratio
falls below 7 percent.  Half of the notes, carrying a 4 percent coupon, will be
bought by the strategic investors, including Qatar Holding LLC,
Olayan Group, Norges Bank Investment Management, BlackRock
Investment Management, Capital Research Global Investors and
Temasek Holdings Pte Ltd., and the remainder will be offered to
Credit Suisse shareholders. Strategic investors will buy any
notes not taken up by other shareholders.  Credit Suisse also reached an agreement with Olayan Group
to accelerate the issuance of 1.7 billion francs of contingent
convertible notes, which was planned for October 2013, to the
end of this month. The remaining 4.1 billion francs of the notes
will be sold to Qatar Investment Authority as planned next year.
The bank would have been “happy” to accelerate issuance of the
notes to Qatar, though the “very supportive” investor had
other considerations, Dougan said on a conference call.  Sustained Value  “The Olayan Group strongly believes that in this
challenging environment the Credit Suisse model is capable of
creating sustained value,” the Saudi Arabian group said in a
statement distributed by the bank.  Credit Suisse plans to boost capital by an additional 6.6
billion francs by the end of the year, including raising 1.6
billion francs from selling real estate and parts of its asset
management business.  It will offer employees the chance to buy shares in
exchange for so-called Adjustable Performance Plan Awards, known
as APPAs, which are tied to the bank’s return on equity and were
issued as compensation in prior years. This may boost capital by
750 million francs, Credit Suisse said.  The capital-raising plans will strengthen Credit Suisse’s
ability to absorb losses and “substantially increase” the
bank’s resilience, the Swiss central bank said today.  Cost Reductions  The bank is also further reducing costs after last year
announcing plans to cut 3,500 jobs and lower expenses by 2
billion francs. Dougan declined to provide details on whether
new cost-cutting measures would result in job losses.  Credit Suisse aims to cut costs at the investment bank by
about 550 million francs, and by about 450 million francs at the
private bank. About half of those savings will come from more
efficient use of shared services such as  information technology ,
the bank said.  The bank plans to “rationalize” the securities unit’s
advisory and underwriting businesses to bring them “in line
with market environment,” get rid of duplications between
country, product and industry teams, and consolidate execution
into hubs in the U.K. and  Hong Kong . The investment bank in Asia
Pacific will focus on the largest markets with a “distinct
competitive advantage,” it said. In private banking, Credit
Suisse will streamline support functions.  Bulge Bracket  “ Brady Dougan  still thinks he can remain one of the bulge
bracket firms in  investment banking . This is very, very
difficult,” said Becker of Kepler, citing the need to give up
capital-intensive products. “The investment bank will look much
smaller for UBS and Credit Suisse than both banks currently
believe.”  The investment bank reported pretax profit of 383 million
francs for the second quarter compared with 208 million francs
in the year-earlier period. The result is “better than
consensus on higher revenues,” JPMorgan analysts said in the
note. Earnings in private banking and asset management fell 7
percent to 775 million francs and 37 percent to 133 million
francs, respectively.  Dougan said the bank is committed to dividends for
shareholders. Credit Suisse is accruing for an unchanged payout
for 2012 of 75 centimes per share, which will be fully
distributed in new stock, the bank said.  Credit Suisse reiterated its return-on-equity target of 15
percent, which compares with the 9.2 percent reported for the
second quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Giles Broom in Geneva at   gbroom@bloomberg.net 
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 