-- Credit Suisse Offers Staff to Convert Cash Bonuses to Stock
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2012-07-18T19:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/credit-suisse-offers-bankers-to-exchange-cash-bonuses-for-stock.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Switzerland ’s second-biggest bank, will allow bankers to swap
future payments from a bonus plan for shares in the lender to
help bolster capital.  Employees can choose to convert so-called Adjustable
Performance Plan Awards, given as part of bonuses for 2009 and
2010, from today and until July 27, the Zurich-based bank said.
Conversion would happen at 16.29 francs a share, the same price
shareholders will get in the 3.8 billion-franc ($3.9 billion)
mandatory convertible notes offer, the bank said. Credit Suisse
rose 4.5 percent to 17.91 francs in Zurich trading.  Credit Suisse said earlier today it plans to increase
capital by about 15.3 billion francs after the Swiss central
bank last month called for a “marked increase.” The proposal
follows the award earlier this year of bonuses tied to the
bank’s efforts to cut risk-weighted assets and the creation of a
staff investment fund in 2008 made up of junk-grade loans and
illiquid bonds.  The Adjustable Performance Plan Awards were a cash-based
deferred compensation plan, with payouts linked to the financial
performance of the employees’ business areas and the company’s
return on equity. All other terms of the awards, including
clawback features, would remain unchanged if staff choose to get
shares instead of cash, the bank said.  Capital Boost  Credit Suisse is targeting a capital boost of about 750
million francs, assuming the awards are valued at 1.3 billion
francs at the end of this year and implying a 58 percent
acceptance level, the bank said. The increase will depend on the
bank’s return on equity in the second half of the year and on
the acceptance level.  A capital boost of 750 million francs would mean the
issuance of about 46 million shares to employees in three
tranches in 2013, 2014 and 2015, Chief Financial Officer  David Mathers  said on a conference call.  Credit Suisse Chief Executive Officer  Brady Dougan  said the
bank’s executive board will participate in the exchange with all
of its awards. The company hopes that the rest of employees
would be “bullish” on the exchange and on the possible upside
in the stock, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ; 