-- Crumb’s Buxom Bimbos, Shy Nerds Set Loose in Paris Show
-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 2012-07-18T08:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/crumb-s-buxom-bimbos-shy-nerds-set-loose-in-paris-show-review.html
From the drug dens of Haight-Ashbury
to the temple of modern art in Paris’s posh 16th arrondissement,
Robert Crumb has made it.  The  Musee d’Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris  has mounted a
monster exhibition for the U.S. comic artist, who became famous
-- some people say notorious -- as the epitome of  California ’s
counterculture in the late 1960s.  Crumb’s cultural consecration doesn’t lack irony: He has
always refused to be part of the official art scene and has
never hidden his contempt for the avant-garde.  “When you look at something like  Joseph Beuys , it’s so
thin,” Crumb is quoted as saying by the French magazine Art
Press. “It’s just an abstract idea. It’s not about any skill.
There’s a kind of suspicion about skill in the fine arts
world.”  His drawings are neither thin nor abstract. Delineated with
forceful strokes, they look like etchings. In etchings, though,
you would hardly find speech bubbles with exclamations such as
“Gotcha!” “Whoop!” or “Aaaarghh!”  Crumb was born in 1943 in Philadelphia and has been living
since the early 1990s in the south of  France . He made his name
with Fritz the Cat, Whiteman, Devil Girl, Mr. Natural and other
raucously irreverent characters.  Because his books, unlike mainstream comics, didn’t shy
away from depicting drug use, unorthodox sex and violence, Crumb
called them “comix,” the X indicating that they were strictly
for adults.  X Rating  Ralph Bakshi’s 1972 film adaptation of “Fritz the Cat”
got an X rating in the U.S., the first for an animated movie.  Hollywood’s prigs weren’t the only ones to have qualms
about Crumb’s work. Many women objected to being portrayed as
curvaceous bimbos, evil gossip mongers or pigtailed vixens with
small heads and oversized breasts and buttocks.  Men chiefly appear as muscular toughies, often in uniform,
or as bespectacled nerds.  Yet Crumb also published “Kafka for Beginners” and an
illustrated version of the Book of Genesis with personal
annotations, a work that kept him busy for four years. The
museum presents it complete in a separate room -- an odd
contrast to the defiantly low-brow rest.  The show also includes album covers: Crumb has always been
interested in jazz and popular music. Since the 1970s, he has
been the front man of “R. Crumb & His Cheap Suit Serenaders,”
an old-timey string band.  His disdainful attitude toward modern art notwithstanding,
the show has had respectful reviews in French newspapers. “La
bande dessinee” is regarded as a serious art form in France,
there’s a major comic-strip  museum  in Angouleme.  Some critics, however, said that 700 works by Crumb were
too much of a good thing.  “Crumb: From the Underground to Genesis” runs through
Aug. 19. Information:  http://www.mam.paris.fr . The exhibition is
supported by Credit Municipal de Paris and  Sony Corp. (6758)   (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include Warwick Thompson on music.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann, in Paris, at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 