-- Czech Premier Necas Survives His Fourth Confidence Vote
-- B y   L e n k a   P o n i k e l s k a
-- 2012-07-18T20:49:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/czech-premier-will-probably-survive-his-fourth-confidence-vote.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas
survived a no-confidence vote today, his fourth since taking
power in 2010, as his coalition held together amid corruption
allegations surrounding Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek.  The opposition Social Democrats failed in their attempt to
topple the Cabinet with 89 deputies voting in favor of the
motion, short of the 101 ballots needed to oust the
administration, unofficial results from a live broadcast of the
proceedings in Prague on state television showed.  Necas asked for the support of lawmakers “who don’t want
political instability and want to continue with reforms.”
Measures to narrow the fiscal gap, including an overhaul of the
pension system, have helped curb funding costs. The yield on the
Czech Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell to a record-low 2.592
percent today. The koruna fell 0.12 percent against the euro,
closing at 25.275.  Governments are crumbling across  Europe  as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  pushes for austerity to prevent the
euro area from breaking up. Necas’s three-party coalition fell
apart in April following clashes over spending cuts, personnel
issues and corruption allegations as the administration prepares
legislation to cut the  budget deficit  to less than the European
Union’s limit of 3 percent of economic output in 2013.  Necas’s coalition, which has 93 of the lower house’s 200
seats, has held on to power with backing from deputies who split
from the former governing partner Public Affairs party, which
splintered in April.  The Social Democrats, who lead in all opinion polls with
elections scheduled for 2014, called for the no-confidence vote
amid allegations Kalousek tried to pressure the police in an
investigation of an army procurement tender. Kalousek has denied
any wrongdoing.  While the economy returned to a recession in the second
half of last year, Necas’s 20-month-old administration is
pushing through tax increases and savings on pensions totaling
57 billion koruna ($3 billion) to meet the goal of reducing the
 gap  to 2.9 percent of economic output next year from 3.1 percent
last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lenka Ponikelska in  Prague  at 
 lponikelska1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  