-- Dawn Murder Shows Barriers to $312 Billion Mindanao Trove
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-07-19T08:55:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/dawn-murder-shows-barriers-to-mindanao-riches-southeast-asia.html
Cris Bual’s work for mining giant
 Xstrata Plc (XTA)  made him a target for Maoist rebels, armed bandits,
or just about anyone with a gun for hire. When traveling from
the relative safety of Davao City into the badlands of the
Philippine island of Mindanao, Bual kept his schedule and route
secret. That wasn’t enough to save him.  While two gunmen blocked off the street where Bual and his
wife were jogging near their Davao home around 5:50 a.m. one
Friday in September, a third walked up to the 53-year-old and
shot him dead. The gang escaped on a black Honda Wave motorbike
with no plates, according to police reports. On June 20, one of
Xstrata’s security personnel and a policeman were shot dead near
the company’s mine site.  Mindanao is no stranger to murder, with a four-decade
insurgency in which as many as  200,000  people have died,
frustrating efforts by companies including Xstrata and  Sumitomo
Metal Mining Co. (5713)  to tap an  estimated  $312 billion in mineral
deposits.  Death squads  that human-rights groups have linked to
police and the military, contract killings over land disputes,
and al-Qaeda-affiliated terrorists add to the mix of violence.  While Philippine economic growth is accelerating,  stocks 
are close to a record high and the country pursues its first
investment-grade  credit rating , failure to resolve the unrest
and murders in Mindanao damages President  Benigno Aquino ’s
efforts to further boost foreign investment, surveys show.  “There is no evidence of a strategic solution to the
security problems in Mindanao,” said Steve Vickers, chief
executive officer of Hong Kong-based Steve Vickers & Associates,
a corporate-intelligence and security-consulting company. “Some
of the activities are truly well-organized terrorism, but much
of it is feudalism or out-and-out criminality, which needs to be
stamped on hard.”  Business Cost  The  Philippines  ranked 130th of 142 countries in the  World
Economic Forum ’s latest survey on the cost to business of
terrorism; and 112th in terms of crime and violence -- the worst
in  Southeast Asia . Fifty-four percent of mining companies said
issues such as attacks by terrorists, criminals and guerrilla
groups are a strong deterrent for investors in the Philippines,
the second highest among 93 jurisdictions in a Fraser Institute
 poll  released in February.  The violence also exacerbates poverty, a  Jan. 26 report  by
the foreign chambers of commerce in the country said. Sixty-five
percent of respondents in Mindanao, home to about a quarter of
the Philippines’ 100 million people, described themselves as
poor, according to a May survey by Manila-based polling company
 Social Weather Stations . That was the highest among the three
main regions in the country, and up from 39 percent in March
2010, before Aquino was elected.  Too Slow  Philippine  gross domestic product  expanded 6.4 percent in
the first three months of this year, the fastest pace since the
third quarter of 2010. Standard & Poor’s this month raised the
country’s debt rating to BB+, one level below investment grade,
citing improved prospects for economic growth.  Aquino needs expansion of more than 8 percent to spread the
benefits more evenly, said John Forbes, an adviser to the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce in the Philippines. That’s a feat achieved
in only two quarters since 1999 -- those immediately before
Aquino took power at the end of June 2010.  Xstrata’s  planned $5.9 billion investment  in the Tampakan
copper and gold deposit, about 100 kilometers (63 miles)
southwest of Davao, includes a power station, port and refinery.
The Zug, Switzerland-based company, the world’s fourth-biggest
copper miner,  aims to produce  375,000 metric tons of the metal
in concentrate from Tampakan each year from 2016, according to
its local Sagittarius Mines Inc. unit.  Gold Too  The lode also holds an estimated 17.6 million ounces of
gold recoverable over the project’s 17-year lifespan. At current
market rates, Tampakan may yield about $60 billion, Justin
Hillier, finance manager at Sagittarius, said in May.  Sumitomo Metal, Japan’s biggest nickel producer, said
repairs and beefed-up security after an attack by guerrillas
from the communist  New People’s Army  on its mine in Mindanao in
October would cost about 10 billion yen ($127 million).  Dole
Food Co. (DOLE) , the world’s largest supplier of fresh fruit and
vegetables, and other agricultural businesses have also been
targeted.  Westlake Village , California-based Dole said it is
committed to the Philippines, where it has been operating since
at least 1963.  “Every region in which Dole operates comes with its own
factors,” Marty Ordman, a spokesman for Dole, wrote in a July
12 e-mail. “Dole’s Mindanao operations are no different.”  Attacks Increase  In the 15 months from January 2011, the NPA launched about
600 attacks on mining companies, loggers and plantations, as
well as landlords and other targets,  including the “Sumitomo
nickel plant, SMI-Xstrata, Toronto Ventures, Russel Mining,
Dole-Stanfilco, Sumifru, Del Monte plantations, and others,”
according to a March 29  statement  from the group. In 2010, there
were 250 raids, it said.  The NPA has denied any involvement in Bual’s killing.  Mindanao became a U.S. concern in 2001 after al-Qaeda
attacks on  New York  and  Washington  that killed almost 3,000
people.  Abu Sayyaf  and Jemaah Islamiyah, both linked to al-
Qaeda, operate on Mindanao and its neighboring islands, which
are located near to oil and gas fields in the  South China Sea 
contested by China.  The U.S. set up a military base in Zamboanga on the west
coast of Mindanao and has had about 600 troops stationed there
for the past decade to combat terrorists. At least 13 U.S.
special-forces personnel  have died  in Mindanao, according to the
military, though both governments deny American forces engage in
combat.  Catholic Settlers  Waves of migration by Catholic settlers have overwhelmed
the island’s Muslim population, which had resisted Spanish
conquest. Now outnumbered about five-to-one, they are
concentrated in many of Mindanao’s poorest areas.  As the island furthest from  Manila , the region hasn’t been
at the top of government spending priorities, keeping many of
its provinces underdeveloped and breeding the sense of
resentment that has fueled rebellion,  Ramon Casiple ,  executive
director  at the Manila-based Institute for Political and
Economic Reform, said July 17.  After more than a decade of U.S. military assistance, the
islamist rebel groups have been depleted by the deaths of almost
all their top leaders, the U.S.  Congressional Research Service
 said in an April 5 report. The military’s mandate doesn’t extend
to the NPA -- which the U.S. government views as a domestic
issue -- or to criminals.  ‘Under-equipped, Under-trained’  “The police forces are under-equipped, under-trained and
under-manned to fight determined criminals,” said the American
Chamber’s Forbes, who has lived in the Philippines for 40 years.
Still, the country is safer now than in the 1970s, when
“politicians had pistols under their barongs and machine guns
in their cars,” he said, referring to the traditional business
attire.  “The biggest tragedy of Mindanao is the image that the
dangers of the conflict has brought, even though the conflict is
really localized,” said Cielito Habito, an economic adviser for
the  Australian Agency for International Development , who is
tasked with attracting investors to the island. “It has so much
to offer in terms of natural resources.”  Habito estimates only 10 percent of Mindanao is dangerous
to overseas investors because most of the violence isn’t
directed at outsiders.  The U.S. government on June 14 renewed its  advisory  against
traveling to Mindanao. “As long as bombs explode in the
Zamboanga airport, as long as kidnap for ransoms dominate the
headlines, as long as bus owners are extorted through violence,
as long as political feuds are resolved through bombs and
assassination, we will not be able to change our travel
warning,” Harry Thomas, ambassador to the Philippines,  said 
Sept. 8.  Feeling Unsafe  In central Mindanao, more than half of respondents in a
World Bank  survey  released in April said they felt unsafe just
going to their nearest market. Only for the most serious crimes
of rape and murder did a significant number say they would
contact police -- 24 percent and 27 percent, respectively,
according to the study.  A witness to the Bual murder declined to give a statement
and has gone into hiding, fearful the killers may go after him
and his family, according to a Jan. 16 police report. Police
said Bual may have been murdered in a dispute over a business
transaction -- he negotiated the purchase of land needed for the
mine.  Latest Deaths  Sagittarius suspended all work on the project following the
assassination. Only six months earlier, the company had been
forced to do the same following the murder of three contractors.  In the most recent fatal attack, Villamindo Hectin, a
retired police officer working as a security consultant for
Sagittarius, was shot by a bandit group near the exploration
site, police said June 22. A police officer also died.  “We recognize the challenges to security and we continue
to engage with our stakeholders towards enhancing peace and
order,” Sagittarius spokesman John Arnaldo said in a July 13 e-
mail. “We remain committed to developing the Tampakan
project.”  From Sagittarius’s offices in the coastal city of General
Santos, about 65 kilometers south of the Tampakan area, the two-
lane national highway snakes past plantations of corn, coconut,
banana and pineapple. Dense jungle clads the sides of volcanic
mountains. Turning off near Crossing Rubber hamlet, a dirt track
not wide enough for two cars to pass leads to Liberty village,
home to the B’laan tribal group that owns land at the center of
the Tampakan deposit.  Difficult Lives  “We can’t afford to lose this project,” Linsay Sanuhay,
48, a member of the B’laan, said in an interview during a May
trip arranged by Xstrata. “People who oppose mining and are
blocking this project don’t know how difficult our lives were.”  Before Sagittarius built the access road that passes
through Liberty on its way to the mine site, the grandmother of
18 said she had to walk all day to get to the nearest market 17
kilometers away.  Xstrata plans to hire 2,000 workers from the municipality
of Kiblawan to build infrastructure for the mine, Mayor  Marivic
Diamante  said in an interview on the same trip. About 68 percent
of the 50,000 people in Kiblawan live on $1.25 or less a day,
she said.  The biggest threat to the mine comes from the NPA, said
Lieutenant Colonel Alex Bravo, the army commander of the
district where Sagittarius, also known as SMI, plans to operate.  “There’s a pronouncement by the NPA -- not just a
perceived threat -- that SMI needs to leave,” Bravo said in a
phone interview before the latest killings. “If we cannot
protect our investors, if they get harassed by threat groups, of
course we will lose face. I cannot let that happen.”  Murders Unpunished  Other opponents of mining on environmental and indigenous-
rights grounds include Catholic missionaries from an Italian
group,  Pontificio Istituto Missioni Estere , or PIME. Three
members of the order have been assassinated in Mindanao. The
latest,  Fausto “Pops” Tentorio , was shot dead in October in
front of witnesses inside the church compound where he lived.  Since 2008, the government has successfully prosecuted only
four cases of extra-judicial killings, all under the previous
administration of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo, according
to  Human Rights Watch . The monitoring agency documented at least
10 killings and disappearances attributed to the security forces
during the first year of Aquino’s administration. No suspects
have been successfully prosecuted in any of these cases, it
said.  Bogged Down  Following Tentorio’s murder, Aquino, who won power pledging
to end rights abuses, corruption and bring security, set up a
 task force  to investigate the slaying. After filing charges
against four suspects, the case has been bogged down in
conflicting testimony that PIME says was given under duress. The
missionary group called on the government to investigate the
role of the military in the murder, and for the withdrawal of
Philippine special forces from the area because of “documented
reports of threats and human-rights violations.”  Twenty-seven witnesses and their family members are in
hiding because of fear of retribution, PIME said in a May 7
 statement  on its website.  “There are parts of Mindanao where those who have
political connections, those who have arms and plenty of money,
can even use the poor to be instruments of violence,” Father
 Peter Geremia , who has been living in the southern Philippines
since 1977, said in a phone interview from Kidapawan City. “So
many killings have happened with no judicial solution.”  Ten months after Bual’s murder, the suspects remain free
because police are still waiting for a judge to be assigned to
the case and for arrest warrants to be issued, Albert Ferro, the
officer leading the investigation, said by phone on July 13.  Death Squads  “The ball is now with the judicial branch of government,”
Aquino spokesman Edwin Lacierda said in a briefing in Manila
yesterday. “We can ask them to hasten the proceedings” but it
might “sacrifice due process,” he said. “We continue to go
after the perpetrators.”  The dawn murder in Davao was surprising because the city is
one of the safest in Mindanao. The leadership has a very strong
will to “maximize the coercive power of the state to deter
crime,” Rommel Banlaoi, executive director of the Philippine
Institute for Peace, Violence, and Terrorism Research, said in a
phone interview from Manila.  According to Human Rights Watch, Vice-Mayor Rodrigo Duterte
has made it clear that criminals are targets for assassination.
There were more than 800  death-squad killings  in Davao City in
the decade to 2009, it said.  “I take care of my city,” the then-mayor said in a 2009
 interview  with Al Jazeera television. “It’s very dangerous for
you to do crime here.” Duterte didn’t respond to requests for
an interview.  Reward Doubled  Duterte, whose daughter stood for mayor when the limit on
terms in office forced him to step down, doubled the reward for
capturing Bual’s killer to 1 million pesos ($23,975) in May,
saying the death threatened much-needed investment, according to
the  Mindanao Times .  “If you’re an ordinary citizen who couldn’t care less
whether the city is killing criminals as long as you can roam
around unmolested, I’m sure you will praise Duterte,” said
Carlos Conde, a researcher at Human Rights Watch. “From the
perspective of human rights, this is really an anomaly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Ben Richardson  at 
 brichardson8@bloomberg.net  