-- Defense Contractors Say Hiring Slows Before Budget Cuts
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-07-18T21:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/defense-contractors-say-hiring-slows-before-budget-cuts.html
The top executives of defense
contractors led by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  told Congress they’re
already slowing hiring as they anticipate across-the-board
defense cuts set to begin on Jan. 2.  Robert Stevens, the chairman and chief executive officer of
Lockheed, told members of the House Armed Services Committee
today that the world’s largest defense contractor is holding
back on recruiting as many employees as it would otherwise. His
comments were echoed by officials of EADS  North America  and
 United Technology Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit.  “We’ve slowed down on, I think, the very simple and
logical premise that if we’re going to engage in significant
reductions in the workforce in January it’s imprudent to bring
people on for six months,” Stevens said at a hearing called by
the Republican-led panel whose members want Congress and
President  Barack Obama  to avert the cuts.  The defense reductions are part of $1.2 trillion in
automatic, across-the-board reductions imposed for the next
decade after talks failed last year on a bipartisan plan to curb
the nation’s debt. The defense portion of the cuts amounts to
$500 billion, and the reductions in 2013 will reach $55 billion
once interest is included.  Stevens told the panel that the company’s recruiters are
encountering skepticism from college students weighing a job at
the Bethesda, Maryland-based company. They are questioning
whether they will have a job next year if they come on board, he
said.  Guidance on Cuts  Sean O’Keefe , chairman and CEO of EADS, said contractors
need guidance about how the cuts, known as sequestration, will
work.  “We’ve slowed down hiring as a consequence, indirectly, of
sequestration,” he said. “What’s occurring now is requests for
proposals, a range of different contractual activities, are all
shifting to the right in the federal activity. It’s all been
delayed.”  Companies have little choice but to start retrenching, said
David Hess, president of Pratt & Whitney.  “Clearly, the threat of sequestration is tempering our
decisions today with respect to hiring and capital
investments,” Hess said. “And, quite honestly, we’ve seen
companies in the past that have made decisions to invest and are
suffering the consequences today.”  WARN Act  The three executives said the federal WARN Act requires
them to send notices to workers whose jobs may be eliminated 60
days before the Jan. 2 start of the cuts unless they’re reduced
or eliminated. That would mean the notices would be received
days before the Nov. 6 election.  Stevens said his “back of the envelope” estimate is that
Lockheed would have to cut 10,000 jobs if the spending
reductions go forward.  “The question is, which employees would be terminated?”
he said. “We don’t really know. We’d have to broaden the
notification under WARN appropriately. We are very hungry for
more guidance, very hungry for more information so we can narrow
this and behave responsibly.”  O’Keefe and Hess offered no estimates of how many of their
workers may be dismissed. Hess said it’s possible his company
may be able to reassign enough employees to other duties to
avoid mass staffing reductions because much of  Pratt & Whitney ’s
work is for civilian customers.  “It’s not clear to us today that we would trip the
thresholds involving implementation of the WARN Act,” Hess
said.  Presidential Copter  Stevens said his company wants to be cautious and inform
any worker who might be affected based on a past experience with
termination of its VH-71 helicopter, which would have been used
to transport the president.  Faced with the prospect of firing workers in Owego,  New
York , the company waited 45 days before sending out WARN Act
notices while efforts were made to reassign some of the
employees. He said the  Defense Contract Audit Agency  issued an
opinion that contract costs in the 45 days “may well not be
allowable” because Lockheed waited too long to decide.  The experience gives the company reason to think it
shouldn’t delay notifying workers they may be fired when there
is “ambiguity,” Stevens said.  Aerospace Association  Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  is scheduled to meet July 23
with leaders of the Aerospace Industries Association,
Professional Services Council and National Defense Industrial
Association, spokesman Carl Woog said today in an e-mail
statement.  Outside the committee room, partisan tensions were growing.  The Republican-led House voted 414-2 to require Obama’s
administration to describe within 30 days plans to implement the
defense and other domestic spending cuts.  In a floor speech, Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell ,
a Kentucky Republican, said Obama should “put a plan on the
table for all to see now, rather than waiting until after the
November elections.”  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, took to the floor to say McConnell and other
members of the Senate leadership voted for the spending cuts.  ”The message is clear,” Durbin said. “You voted for this
so don’t keep coming to the floor and criticizing it.”  Domestic Spending  House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a Wisconsin
Republican, told reporters the Democratic-controlled Senate
hasn’t acted on a House-passed measure to replace the defense
spending reductions with cuts in domestic programs including
 food stamps  and federal workers’ benefits.  “The keys to the lock are in the hands of our Republican
colleagues” who refuse to eliminate “special interest tax
breaks” to help finance a postponement of the spending
reductions, responded the top Democrat on Ryan’s committee,
Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen .  Michigan Senator  Carl Levin , the Democratic chairman of the
Senate Armed Services Committee, said senators in both parties
are searching for ways to avert the cuts because they post “a
real prospect of damaging our economy long before” they take
effect.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  