-- Detroit’s Core Thrives as Criminals Prey on Neighborhoods
-- B y   C h r i s   C h r i s t o f f   a n d   H a s a n   D u d a r
-- 2012-07-18T15:49:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/detroit-s-core-thrives-as-criminals-prey-on-neighborhoods.html
After three years in a suburban
house, Nathaniel Wallace bought a loft in  Detroit ’s midtown,
where major crime has dropped 38 percent in three years.  The 32-year-old computer contractor paid less than $200,000
for the restored three-level building with stainless-steel
appliances and a rooftop view of the Comerica Park baseball
stadium.  “People see Detroit as the cool place to be,” he said.  Six miles north, state Representative Jimmy Womack, 58, was
robbed at gunpoint July 8 near his Detroit home. He said three
men stole $300 from his pocket after he refused to give them his
2011 Cadillac SRX, then laughed as they walked away.  “We’re falling apart as a community,” said Womack.  As small, safe enclaves attract residents -- midtown’s
population grew 33 percent in 10 years as Detroit as a whole
lost 25 percent -- cuts in police protection threaten to unleash
more crime in outer neighborhoods that already lead the nation
in violence. Spreading the core’s vitality may decide the fate
of the near-bankrupt city.  Last year, Detroit’s 2,137 violent crimes per 100,000
people, including 344 homicides, led U.S. cities with
populations of 300,000 or more, according to an FBI report.  St.
Louis  was second, with 1,857 crimes per 100,000.  Organic Veggies  It’s a different tale in Detroit’s midtown, a hotspot for
art and socializing. Midtown’s population grew to 14,550 from
10,900 from 2000 to 2010, according to the Southeast Michigan
Council of Governments.  The area’s 5,884 housing units in 127 buildings are 95
percent occupied, and more are being built, according to Midtown
Detroit Inc., a nonprofit planning and economic development
organization.  The city’s first  Whole Foods Market Inc. (WFM)  supermarket is
being built in midtown. Vacant land is being prepared for
redevelopment and old buildings have been restored for housing,
such as Wallace’s loft. The district includes the Detroit
Institute of Arts, Detroit Symphony Orchestra, Detroit Medical
Center and Detroit Public Library.  Nearby Wayne State University’s 54 officers share patrols
and investigations in midtown with Detroit police. The result
has been a 38 percent decline in major crime from 2008 to 2011,
said Captain Emery Burk.  It’s not the only livable and lively place.  Corktown Reverie  Nine large employers -- including two hospitals and closely
held Quicken Loans Inc. -- pledged $2 million a year for four
years to pay employees to move in and around downtown. About 380
have done so, according to Midtown Detroit.  Young inhabitants enliven Corktown, a square mile near
downtown named for immigrants from Ireland in the 1800s.  “I feel very safe,” said resident Liz Alvarez, 32, as she
pushed a stroller with her 2-month-old son, Call, on the street
where she and her husband, Joe Klecha, 33, moved nine months ago
from Novi, eight miles west of Detroit. They paid $132,000 for a
3,100-square-foot, renovated 1890s-era house and cut their
commute downtown to five minutes from 45.  “It’s a great neighborhood with wonderful neighbors and
everybody’s on the lookout,” Alvarez said.  Wallace said that when it comes to crime, “there are two
Detroits.”  “The feeling in downtown Detroit is that we’ve gotten to
the other side, we’ve gotten past a lot of the stuff that
plagued us for a long time,” Wallace said.  ‘State of War’  When Michigan intervened in April to fix Detroit’s
finances, Republican Governor Rick Snyder said its salvation
lies with attracting tax-paying residents and businesses. While
security is essential, it remains an elusive vision in much of
the city.  “There is a climate of violence where people believe that
you can get away with stuff because you don’t have enough police
officers to respond,” said Wayne County Sheriff Benny Napoleon
at a July 9 meeting with gas station and store owners. Napoleon
has begun city patrols to help the understaffed Detroit police
force.  Station owner Frank Dabaja said Detroit is in “a state of
war.”  He told of 15 homicides in the past six months nearby,
including a triple murder in which one victim ran into his gas
station and died.  Terror Town  Crime makes it difficult to insure Detroit retailers, said
Auday Arabo, president of the Associated Food and Petroleum
Dealers, which represents 4,000 gas stations, independent
supermarkets and  convenience stores .  In 2011, Detroit ranked sixth in property crime among U.S.
cities with 300,000 or more residents, according to FBI data -
-6,144 per 100,000 people. Detroit’s 184 homicides as of July 15
compare with 189 at the same time in 2011, according to the
city’s police department.  “It’s not only crime, but it’s the perception and fear
that goes along with it,” said Detroit Police Chief Ralph
Godbee in an interview at the forum. “Statistically we’re
holding ground, but those statistics don’t mean anything to that
individual business owner who had had an armed robbery or a gun
shoved in their face.”  Godbee said he must trim 100 officers to bring his force to
2,533, already down from 4,000 in 2005. Mayor Dave Bing today
imposed a 10 percent pay cut on most city unions, including the
police’s. Top pay of $53,237 would be cut to $47,913, said Joe
Duncan, president of the officers’ union.  Metal Strippers  Early news of the pay cut was dispiriting for officers Carl
Mack and Everett Richardson as they patrolled the east side one
recent afternoon.  “You want me to stay upbeat and deal with the most violent
crimes here?” said Mack, 48, shaking his head.  Mack, a 13-year veteran, said break-ins, shootings and
domestic assaults increased as the economy worsened. Thieves
strip homes of copper pipes, furnaces, hot-water heaters and
aluminum siding to sell for scrap, Mack said.  Police and neighborhood-watch groups say empty homes are
havens for drug trafficking and other crimes. Detroit in 2009
had 125,015 vacant residential lots or vacant houses -- about
one-quarter of all residential parcels, according to Data Driven
Detroit, a nonprofit regional data-analysis firm.  Three miles west of midtown, on a street where no street
lights function, Shellee Brooks, 34, is working to revive the
neighborhood where she grew up. Brooks has overseen a $1.6
million rehab of three homes for multifamily use, using federal
funds.  She’d like to live in a house she owns on her childhood
street -- she spent a day planting flowers there -- but said she
fears she’ll be targeted for robbery or worse, adding,“I can’t
live here and not have a gun.”  Brooks lives in a downtown loft instead.  “My friends tell me I’m crazy,” Brooks said. “I believe
God watches over me. I refuse to walk around in fear every
day.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Christoff in Detroit at 
 cchristoff@bloomberg.net ;
Hasan Dudar in Detroit at 
 hdudar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  