-- Deutsche Bank Pressured to Bolster Capital After Credit Suisse
-- B y   A n n e t t e   W e i s b a c h
-- 2012-07-18T17:51:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/deutsche-bank-pressured-to-bolster-capital-after-credit-suisse.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  Germany ’s largest
lender, may have to bolster capital after  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
bowed to pressure from regulators and announced plans to raise
15.3 billion francs ($15.6 billion).  Credit Suisse’s move today leaves Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank and France’s Credit Agricole SA as the two European banks
with the weakest capital position, said  Christopher Wheeler , an
analyst at Mediobanca SpA with an underperform rating on the
German lender. Deutsche Bank may use a September strategy day to
update investors on its capital plans, he said.  “After the capital measures by Credit Suisse, Deutsche
Bank is among the two weakest banks in Europe,” Wheeler said by
telephone from  London . “The pressure is on Deutsche Bank now.”  Global regulators are pushing lenders to raise capital and
cut risk to prevent a repeat of the taxpayer-funded bank
bailouts in the financial crisis of 2008. Under the latest round
of rules from the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision , the
largest banks will have to more than triple the core capital to
at least 9.5 percent of assets, weighted for risk, by 2019.  Deutsche Bank estimates its core Tier 1 capital ratio will
fall to 7.2 percent by the start of 2013 under the full Basel
III rules, according to a company presentation on April 26.  “If earnings disappoint, Deutsche Bank may have to raise
capital as well,” said Guido Hoymann, an analyst at Bankhaus
Metzler with a buy rating on the bank. “The market may well
have priced in a capital boost as the share price is very
depressed.”  Deutsche Bank  stock  has fallen almost 13 percent this year,
compared with the 2.4 percent decline in the Bloomberg  Europe 
Banks and Financial Services Index. The shares rose 1.9 percent
to 25.66 euros in Frankfurt today.  Co-chief executive officers Anshu Jain and Juergen Fitschen
said in an interview with die Welt on June 2 that the bank will
be able to bolster capital on its own.  Armin Niedermeier, a Deutsche Bank spokesman, declined to
comment on analyst reports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Annette Weisbach in Frankfurt at 
 aweisbach1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  