-- Diageo Settles Australian Thalidomide Suit, Law Firm Says
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-07-18T03:11:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/diageo-settles-australian-thalidomide-suit-law-firm-says.html
Diageo Plc agreed to pay more than
A$1 million ($1 million) to an Australian victim of a drug that
can cause  birth defects , opening the way for settlement talks
with more than 100 other affected people, a  law firm  said.  Lynette Rowe sued Diageo, which in 1997 acquired Distillers
Co. (Biochemicals), the Australian and New Zealand distributor
of the thalidomide drug, Slater & Gordon, a class-action law
firm, said in a statement today. Rowe was born without arms and
legs. Diageo, the maker of Smirnoff vodka and Johnnie Walker
Scotch whisky, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mailed request
for comment sent to its media department.  “The amount of settlement will remain private but I can
say it is a multimillion-dollar amount,” Peter Gordon, Rowe’s
lawyer, said in the statement. “Diageo has done the right
thing.”  The settlement will form the basis of negotiations between
London-based Diageo and more than 100 other people claiming to
have been harmed by thalidomide who have contacted  Slater &
Gordon (SGH) , the lawyer said. A trial scheduled to begin in state
court in  Melbourne  on Oct. 8 will be delayed until at least the
middle of next year to allow for the negotiations, Gordon said.  A single dose of thalidomide taken during pregnancy can
cause severe birth defects or the death of an unborn baby,
 according to  the U.S. National Institutes of Health.  Thalidomide Maker  Grunenthal GmbH  introduced the drug in  West Germany  in
1957. It was  prescribed  to women to treat morning sickness,
according to research published on the University of New South
Wales’  website .  Rowe also sued Grunenthal, which claimed to have done
nothing wrong and isn’t part of the settlement, according to
Slater & Gordon.  “The facts about Grunenthal and thalidomide need to come
out,” Michael Magazanik, a second lawyer who represented Rowe,
said in the statement. The thalidomide in pills taken by
pregnant Australian women in the 1950s and 1960s was made by
Grunenthal, he said.  “It is a matter of moral importance to Grunenthal to be
actively involved in charitable efforts to improve the situation
of thalidomide victims on a sustainable basis,” according to a
 website  of the German company. “We seek to work together with
thalidomide victims to devise projects for the provision of
specific needs-based support.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  