-- Duke Energy’s Request to Delay Testimony of Directors Denied
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k   a n d   J i m   P o l s o n
-- 2012-07-18T20:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/duke-energy-s-request-to-delay-testimony-of-directors-denied-1-.html
The North Carolina Utilities
Commission rejected a request by  Duke Energy Corp. (DUK) , the largest
U.S. utility owner, to delay testimony by two directors about
the surprise ouster of Chief Executive Officer  Bill Johnson .  Directors Ann Gray and Michael Browning have had “ample
time” to prepare for testimony scheduled July 20, the NCUC said
today in an  order . Duke yesterday asked to delay their
appearance until the company had filed documents requested by
the commission.  Johnson, contracted to succeed Duke CEO  Jim Rogers  upon his
company’s $17.8 billion purchase of Progress Energy Inc., was
replaced within hours of the deal’s July 2 close. The shares
have fallen 4.5 percent since Duke announced the departure of
Johnson, who was CEO of Progress prior to the companies’ merger.  Johnson is scheduled to testify before the commission
tomorrow along with two former Progress directors.  Duke said Gray and Browning will appear at the hearing as
requested, Dave Scanzoni, a company spokesman, said in a
telephone interview.  Rogers told the commission on July 10 he’d learned June 23
from Gray and another director that Duke’s board “had doubts
about Mr. Johnson’s ability to lead the combined company” and
asked if he’d “step back in as CEO.”  Best Option  “Growing friction between the two companies’ leadership”
on how to resolve federal anti-competition concerns led Duke’s
board, except Rogers, to meet with outside lawyers on May 3 to
discuss whether Johnson should be CEO, Gray said in a statement
filed July 18 with the commission.  Duke’s board decided June 23 the “least bad” option was
to close the deal and act on Johnson’s status “immediately
thereafter,” according to her statement. The board of the
combined company voted 10-5 on a July 2 conference call to
request Johnson’s resignation, she said.  North Carolina Attorney General Roy Cooper is also
investigating the abrupt CEO switch. Florida regulators have
asked Rogers to testify at an Aug. 13 hearing. Shareholders sued
the Duke directors July 17, alleging that they misled investors
and damaged the company’s reputation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Polson in  New York  at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  