-- The Contender Mitt Romney Could’ve Been
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-07-18T22:30:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/the-contender-mitt-romney-could-ve-been.html
Last week, a friend put the U.S.
presidential race in depressingly clear terms: This election is
a choice between a Democratic president who voters don’t think
is able to solve our economic problems and a Republican
candidate who voters think is committed to the same doctrines
and institutions that helped produce them.  So who do you want, America? The guy who can’t seem to get
us out of this mess, or the party that helped get us into it?
But there’s a candidate out there who could have made this
election something very different -- a candidate perfectly
suited to this unusual moment in American politics. That
candidate?  Mitt Romney .  I don’t mean, of course, Romney the purveyor of Republican
boilerplate and one-percenter obliviousness who actually won the
Republican primaries. That Romney is, if anything, uniquely ill-
suited to the demands of the moment, which combines a need for
fresh thinking with a profound mistrust of the existing power
structure. I’m referring to the Romney who could have been.  Romney entered this race with three striking credentials
for a presidential candidate: He was one of the most successful
private equity executives of all time. He was the first governor
to pass and implement a near-universal health-care program. And
he was a moderate Republican who had, at various points in his
career, spoken out against his party’s more extreme orthodoxies.
For various reasons, the real Romney abandoned each of those
qualifications.  Privatizing Profits  From the beginning of his campaign, Romney spun his tenure
at Bain Capital LLC. He told voters that Bain was all about  job
creation . That’s manifestly untrue. Bain’s prospectus never
mentions the words “jobs” or “employment.” Bain is -- and was --
organized to maximize wealth for shareholders. Sometimes it
maximized their wealth in ways that hurt the rest of us, as when
Bain executives loaded companies with tax-deductible debt, used
it to pay themselves and investors huge dividends, and then fled
the scene as the company fell into bankruptcy. As Anthony
Luzzatto Gardner wrote, that was, in effect, privatizing profits
while socializing losses. But that’s not all Bain did.  A better, alternate Romney would tell a very different
story. He would explain that one reason the  U.S. economy  is
stronger than those of other developed nations is that Americans
are unsentimental; we keep our labor markets flexible, force our
business leaders to fear takeovers and buyouts, and let
struggling companies die. He would say that Bain was an engine
of corporate restructuring and, at times, destruction, and that
when Bain closed down a plant because it wasn’t sufficiently
competitive and moved that capital to more productive purposes,
it performed a worthwhile service for the entire economy.  He would say the lesson he took from Bain is that countries
aren’t all that different from companies: If we decide it’s just
too hard and painful to make the changes need to remain
competitive, we too will wake up one day to find the global
economy has passed us by.  A Romney who said all that could present himself as the
unsentimental turnaround artist our ailing economy needs.
However, he would also need to tell a more honest story about
the human costs. Rather than denying that Bain’s activities
sometimes hurt workers, he would admit it. Rather than offering
paeans to free enterprise and risk taking, he would acknowledge
that the modern economy isn’t fair and is sometimes downright
cruel. Workers lose their jobs, their health insurance and their
self respect because management is insufficiently farsighted, or
because advances in shipping technology make it cheaper to move
a factory to  China . The solution, he would say, isn’t to make
our companies less competitive. Rather, the answer is to make
our government more compassionate and more effective in helping
those left behind.  Universal Care  Our alternate Romney could point to his work in
 Massachusetts  as evidence that his words are more than just a
script. When Romney left Bain to lead the Bay State, he passed
and implemented the first statewide universal health-care
system. He made sure that no one who lost a job would also lose
health insurance.  The alternate Romney would say that his health-care plan
wasn’t a perfect end but a powerful first step. He would
describe the problems in the health-care market that he realized
only the federal government can fix, including the system’s
emphasis on employer-based coverage. And he would propose
reforms to free workers and employers alike from that system.
That is to say, rather than trying to repeal the national
version of Romneycare, he would make it Romneycare Plus.  Because the alternate Romney is still a Republican, he
would also back Representative  Paul Ryan ’s latest proposal for
Medicare reforms and propose integrating Medicare exchanges with
the Affordable Care Act’s insurance exchanges, enabling people
to retain the same insurance throughout their lives, a change
that would improve insurance markets and health outcomes by
encouraging insurers to care about the long-term health of their
customers.  Moreover, this Romney wouldn’t stop with health care. Our
analytical alternate would say that although there’s much we
don’t know about preparing our children to compete in tomorrow’s
economy, data suggest that early childhood education offers more
bang-for-the-buck than virtually any other investment, and so we
should focus on it.  This Romney would propose a raft of specific spending cuts
-- including cuts to defense -- to help pay for his new programs
and to cut the  deficit . He would also point out that the rich
have done pretty darn well in recent years (if you don’t believe
him, just have a look at his tax returns). This Romney would
argue that if capitalists are to credibly ask for continued
sacrifice from workers, they will need to show they’re
sacrificing, too.  So alternate Romney would propose raising taxes on the
rich.  Long View  When, in response, he was flayed by his fellow Republicans,
as he no doubt would be, rather than buckle to pressure he would
make his case: If we don’t raise taxes and secure the social
safety net, then the viciousness of the global economy, the
sense of unfairness driven by inequality, and the pain of a slow
recovery will lead future politicians to embrace excessive labor
market regulations and protectionism, both of which will hurt
the economy in the long run.  Alternate Romney would remind Republicans that they need to
be for capitalism first and capitalists second, and that as long
as our economy remains free, and the political consensus that
supports it remains stable, the capitalists will do just fine.  Of course, this Romney would probably have finished last in
the Republican primaries. And that’s why he doesn’t exist -- and
why Republicans may well fail to win back the White House
despite persistent high unemployment.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a pricey new weapon for
 fighting AIDS  and on the Pentagon’s upcoming  budget war ;
 Caroline Baum  on  term limits  for Congress;  Michael Kinsley  on
why  Mitt Romney’s faith  is his best asset; Amir Sufi on  eminent
domain as an answer  to housing debt; Nell Minow on the  zombies 
hanging around corporate boardrooms.  To contact the writer on this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 