-- EBay Revenue Beats Estimates After Increase in U.S. Sales
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-07-19T14:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/ebay-templates.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY) , the world’s largest
Internet marketplace, gained the most in three months after
reporting sales and profit that beat analysts’ estimates as more
U.S. consumers shopped for new items on the site.  EBay  rose  7.9 percent to $43.65 at 10:01 a.m. in  New York ,
for the biggest increase since April 19. Second-quarter revenue
climbed 23 percent to $3.4 billion, the company said yesterday.
That exceeded the $3.36 billion average analyst estimate
compiled by Bloomberg. Profit excluding some items was 56 cents
a share, topping the 55-cent prediction.  Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe  has increased spending
on advertising and new technology to expand beyond EBay’s
auction roots and let shoppers buy more items in instant sales,
similar to those on  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s site. Those efforts led to
gains in EBay’s Marketplaces unit as total U.S. online sales
jumped 15 percent in the quarter, according to ComScore Inc.  “The biggest surprise was that the upside was driven by
the marketplace,” said  Colin Sebastian , an analyst at Robert W.
Baird & Co. in  San Francisco . “Typically we see a little more
sizzle coming from PayPal. That gives credence to the view that
EBay has stabilized the marketplace.”  Fixed-price sales -- items not sold through auctions --grew
13 percent in the second quarter, and made up 65 percent of
global merchandise transactions, the company said.  Revenue at PayPal, EBay’s electronic-payment unit, surged
26 percent to $1.36 billion in the period, while the total value
of transactions processed climbed 20 percent to $34.5 billion.
PayPal had 113.2 million active accounts at the end of the
three-month period, up 13 percent from a year earlier.  ‘Sweet Spot’  The stock rose as high as $42.96 after the report. It had
increased 3.6 percent to $40.46 at yesterday’s close in New
York. Shares of the  San Jose , California-based company have
gained 33 percent this year.  While EBay is investing more to promote sales of unused
items -- about 70 percent of items sold on the site are new --
the company is trying to set itself apart from Amazon and other
online retailers, Donahoe said.  “Our sweet spot is last season’s new items,” he said in
an interview. “In consumer electronics, people are coming out
with a new model every quarter. In clothing, the entire
inventory turns over every quarter. In another month, Nordstrom
doesn’t want bathing suits in their stores. EBay’s a great place
to get rid of summer inventory.”  Marketing expenses increased by 22 percent in the first
half of 2012 from a year earlier, and the company bolstered
investments in technology development by 34 percent.  Mobile Technology  The online retailer has added to its mobile technology and
is pushing users to sign in over their phones more often.
Downloads of mobile applications have surpassed 90 million
worldwide since they were introduced in 2008. Shoppers who
browse using their phones are three to four times more valuable
than ones who exclusively shop on EBay’s website, Donahoe said.  EBay and PayPal mobile will each garner $10 billion in
transaction volume this year, Donahoe said on a conference call
yesterday. That’s up from a projection of $8 billion for EBay
and $7 billion for PayPal.  Net income in the second quarter more than doubled to $692
million, or 53 cents a share, from $283 million, or 22 cents, a
year earlier, the company said.  In the third quarter, revenue will be $3.3 billion to $3.4
billion, the company said, compared with an average analyst
 projection  of $3.41 billion. EBay forecast profit excluding some
items of 53 cents to 55 cents a share, versus a 55-cent
estimate.  New Products  Over the past year, PayPal developed a card reader that
plugs into a smartphone headphone jack, a bid to attract more
small merchants and compete with Square Inc. It also added
software to existing payment terminals at larger retail partners
such as  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , allowing in-store purchases with
PayPal.  The company acquired a startup called Card.io, which
develops technology that captures credit-card information
through a phone’s camera, EBay said in a  statement  earlier this
week. The technology will enable customers to more easily slot
cards into the PayPal digital wallet, which lets users keep
credit card information from multiple providers -- including
 Visa Inc. (V)  and  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  -- in one spot.  “It’s going to be a hard road for them to travel to get
traction” in offline payments, said  Colin Gillis , an analyst at
BCG Partners in New York. “But you don’t need that to work to
own EBay.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  