-- Ecuador to Buy Iranian Fuel in Defiance of Western Sanctions
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-07-18T18:44:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/ecuador-to-buy-iranian-fuel-in-defiance-of-western-sanctions-1-.html
Ecuador is in talks with Iran to buy
$400 million of fuel amid growing efforts by the U.S. and
European Union to crack down on the Islamic republic’s crude
sales.  Ecuador’s central bank President Pedro Delgado said
negotiations are still underway though insisted his government
is free to trade with whomever it wishes.  “Ecuador is a sovereign nation and can have relations with
any country in the world,” Delgado told reporters in  Quito 
today.  Ecuador’s President  Rafael Correa  is among a number of
allies of Venezuela’s  Hugo Chavez  that have courted closer
economic and diplomatic ties with Iran in the face of Western-
led sanctions. Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  visited
Quito on a four-nation tour of  Latin America  in January, and the
two countries have pledged to build a refinery together in South
America’s fifth-biggest oil producer.  Ecuador, a member of the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, is trying to guarantee gas supplies as the
country’s biggest refinery is scheduled to go offline in October
for about a year of maintenance work.  The U.S., which accuses Iran of seeking to develop a
nuclear weapon, sanctioned the National Iranian Tanker Co. and
four alleged front companies for Iran’s oil trade on July 12 in
its latest bid to curtail the country’s petroleum sales until it
abandons illicit aspects of its disputed nuclear program.  The U.S. action doesn’t impose penalties on non-U.S.
companies that continue to do business with NITC.  The EU, building on sanction by the U.S. and  United
Nations , embargoed the nation’s oil and banned EU companies from
insuring its crude shipments this month.  Iran says its nuclear program is for peaceful energy and
medical purposes.  Iran’s crude exports fell to 1.88 million barrels a day in
May from 1.905 million barrels in April, according to data
posted on the website of the Joint Organization Data Initiative.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  