-- Egg-White Powder May Help Quell Egg Allergies in Children
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/egg-white-powder-may-help-quell-egg-allergies-in-children.html
Egg allergies in children may be
tempered by eating small amounts of powdered egg white over
time, researchers said in the first major study that suggests a
way to overcome food allergies.  Of the 40 children who were given egg-white powder, 11 were
no longer allergic to eggs by the end of the trial and many of
the rest ate larger portions of eggs with mild to no allergic
symptoms, according to the study released yesterday by the  New
England Journal of Medicine  found.  The only current treatment for egg allergies is to avoid
eggs and products that contain the food. Once the food is eaten,
reactions range from hives and diarrhea to asthma-like symptoms
and throat closings, the researchers said. The ban on eggs for
patients differs from treatments for other allergies like dust
mites and pollen, where small to increasing amounts of the
allergen can be injected into the body to desensitize it.  “We really do not have a treatment for food allergy right
now,”  Wesley Burks , the lead study author and chairman of the
Department of Pediatrics at the University of North Carolina
School of Medicine in Chapel Hill, said in a July 16 telephone
interview. “What we do when we take care of patients, we try to
identify what food they are allergic to and help them avoid that
food.”  The new study shows that for kids with  egg allergy ,
“there’s promise for development of a future treatment,” he
said. More research is needed to replicate the findings and to
help identify who would most likely benefit from the therapy
before doctors recommend children with egg allergies try this at
home, Burks said.  By age 2 1/2, about 3 percent of children will have
allergies to eggs, the researchers said.  Study Results  The study included 55 children from ages 5 to 18 with egg
allergies. Fifteen kids were given a placebo while the rest were
given small amounts of powdered egg whites to be mixed into
their food. An increasing amount of the powder was given  to
build up to about one-third of an egg daily.  After 10 months, the kids were given a food challenge to
see if they could eat the equivalent of about one egg and 55
percent of those who were taking the powder passed without
significant allergy symptoms while none of the children given
placebo passed, the study showed. After 22 months, researchers
gave another food challenge asking the children to eat the
equivalent of about two whole eggs in powdered form and 75
percent of the children passed. Those who passed then stopped
consuming the powder.  Beating Allergies  About two months later, those who passed were asked to
consume the same amount of egg powder as they did in the 22-
month challenge plus a whole cooked egg. Eleven kids, or 28
percent, passed and were able to eat eggs in their daily diet.  “More than a quarter of the children in our study lost
their egg allergies altogether, but we also saw dramatic
improvements in those who didn’t, which in and of itself is an
important therapeutic achievement,”  Robert Wood , a study author
and director of allergy and immunology at Johns Hopkins
Children’s Center in Baltimore, said in a statement. “These
children went from having serious allergic reactions after a
single bite of an egg-containing cookie to consuming eggs with
minimal or no symptoms.”  The study was sponsored by the U.S.  National Institutes of
Health .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in  New York  at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  