-- TeliaSonera Cuts Forecast on Falling Mobile Services Sales
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-07-18T08:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/teliasonera-cuts-forecast-on-falling-mobile-services-sales-2-.html
TeliaSonera AB (TLSN) ,  Sweden ’s biggest
phone company, lowered its 2012 margin forecast after sales fell
in its mobile phone services and broadband units amid mounting
competition, sending its shares down the most in three months.  TeliaSonera now sees the margin on earnings before
interest, tax, depreciation and amortization at around 35
percent, excluding non-recurring items, below last year’s 35.4
percent. This compares with the previous guidance for an Ebitda
margin in line with last year’s, Stockholm-based TeliaSonera
said in a statement today.  “Operators including TeliaSonera, need to change their
business models, address their structural cost base and review
their way of working to secure future profitability,” Chief
Executive Officer Lars Nyberg said.  The Swedish former monopoly is counting on higher-priced
Nordic mobile broadband services and growth of Eurasia
subscribers to make up for the decline in traditional telephone
services. Sales growth in local currencies excluding
acquisitions now is expected at 0 to 1 percent, the company
said, compared with a previous range of 1 to 2 percent.  “Given the slowdown in organic growth and cut to guidance
we expect the shares to be weak on these results,”  Espirito
Santo  said in a note to clients. “One should note however that
consensus expectations for the full year are already in line
with the lower margin guidance, which implies that consensus
Ebitda estimates may only have to fall by around 1 percent.”  Espirito Santo has a neutral rating on the stock.
The share was down 3.1 percent to 43.98 kronor at 9:50 a.m. in
the Swedish capital, the biggest intraday drop since April 23.  Norway Charge  TeliaSonera said July 12 it would take an impairment charge
of 2.75 billion kronor ($395 million) on its NetCom division,
after the acquisition of  Norway ’s second-largest operator in
2000. In  Lithuania , the company wrote down the value of its
business by 318 million kronor amid rising competition. Net
income in the quarter also includes a capital gain of 3.1
billion kronor from dividends in OAO MegaFon,  Russia ’s second-
largest mobile-phone operator.  “While trends within broadband services and Eurasia have
been broadly stable, mobility services experienced a slower
growth in service revenues and equipment sales,” Nyberg said.  Ebitda, excluding non-recurring items, fell 2 percent to 9
billion kronor in the quarter and compared with the average in a
 Bloomberg survey  of 9.17 billion kronor. The Ebitda margin was
34.3 percent in the quarter, compared with 35.3 percent a year
earlier.  Eurasian Growth  Profit in the second quarter increased 10 percent to 4.25
billion kronor from 3.86 billion kronor a year earlier, the
company said. The average estimate in a SME Direkt survey of 12
analysts was for profit of 3.89 billion kronor. Revenue rose 1
percent to 26.3 billion kronor, compared with an estimate of
26.5 billion kronor in a Bloomberg survey of 17 analysts.  In its Eurasian business, which includes operations in
countries such as Kazakhstan and  Azerbaijan , sales grew by 19
percent to 4.93 billion kronor. The company’s mobile services
unit saw revenue fall 2.3 percent to 12.6 billion kronor and the
broadband unit reported sales 0.8 percent lower at 9.09 billion
kronor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  