-- Mellanox Drops on Tech Concerns Ahead of Results: Tel Aviv Mover
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2012-07-18T14:07:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/mellanox-declines-to-month-low-after-u-s-traded-shares-tumble.html
Mellanox Technologies Ltd. (MLNX) , an
Israeli developer of technology used to transfer and store data,
dropped to the lowest in more than a month after its U.S.-traded
shares tumbled and ahead of quarterly results today.  The  shares  declined 4 percent to 253.5 shekels, or the
equivalent of $63.25, the lowest since June 14, at the 4:30 p.m.
close in Tel Aviv. The New York-traded stock dropped 5.5 percent
to $62.24 yesterday.  “Mellanox serves areas such as cloud computing which are
recording strong growth and we expect strong results today,”
Jonathan Kreizman, an analyst at Clal Finance Batucha Brokerage
Ltd. said by phone today. “The recent weak performance of the
shares reflects weakness in the technology sector overall and
concern about earnings tonight versus analyst expectations.”  Mellanox has  fallen 14 percent  in Tel Aviv since July 10,
when  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , the number-two maker of
processors for personal computers, reported a drop in second-
quarter sales, generating concerns technology companies will
report slower growth.  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest
semiconductor maker, scaled back its annual sales forecast today
as personal-computer demand fails to rebound among consumers in
the U.S. and  Europe . Intel is estimated to account for 2 percent
of Mellanox’s 2012 sales, according to  data  compiled by
Bloomberg.  The cloud market, where companies can pay pennies an hour
to have their websites and applications hosted rather than
buying and managing their own servers, is expected to climb to
$10.5 billion in 2014 from $3.7 billion last year, according to
Gartner Inc.  Mellanox will probably say second-quarter sales doubled to
$128 million when it announces its results later today,
according to the median  estimate  of 12 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Net income is expected to rise to $24.5 million,
according to the mean forecast of four analysts on Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  