-- Helm Bank Gains in Colombia After Report of Possible Sale
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n   a n d   P a t r i c i a   L a y a
-- 2012-07-18T20:33:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/helm-bank-gains-in-colombia-after-report-of-possible-sale-1-.html
Helm Bank SA (PFBHELMB) , whose stock is
 Colombia ’s best performer this year, rallied to a four-week high
after a newspaper reported that the Colombian lender is in talks
over a possible sale to  Chile ’s Corpbanca.  Helm rose 5.8 percent to 510 pesos in Bogota trading, its
highest level since June 20. The stock has increased 65 percent
this year, the most among the 38 companies on Colombia’s IGBC
stock index.  Helm is one of two banks with which Corpbanca is in talks
for a potential acquisition, Diario Financiero reported today,
citing people close to the discussions it didn’t identify. The
newspaper didn’t name the other potential target. Corpbanca is
also interested in buying a brokerage firm, and an announcement
may be made next month, Diario Financiero wrote.  “It makes sense that  Corpbanca (CORPBANC)  is one of the players
pushing for Helm,” David Pelaez, an analyst at Bolsa y Renta in
Medellin, said in a phone interview. “If a foreign bank comes
and tries to compete with locals, it hasn’t been successful
earning market share, so it has to do it through acquisitions.”  Corpbanca declined to answer e-mailed questions on the
Diario Financiero report. Helm Bank didn’t immediately respond
to a phone message requesting comment.  Helm Bank’s President Carmina Ferro said in a February
interview that shareholders including the Miami-based investor
William Wilde have declined approaches by prospective buyers,
including Chilean and Brazilian groups.  Corpbanca closed in June the acquisition of 95 percent of
Banco Santander Colombia SA for $1.23 billion in cash, becoming
the first Chilean financial services company to complete a
cross-border acquisition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Laya in  New York  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  