-- Emerging Stocks Fall From 1-Week High on China, Profit Concerns
-- B y   J a s o n   W e b b   a n d   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-18T21:38:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/emerging-stocks-fall-from-one-week-high-on-earnings-concerns.html
Emerging-market stocks declined from
a one-week high after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  warned of a
“severe” jobs outlook and amid concern corporate earnings
growth is slowing.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index fell 0.2 percent to 930.90
at the close of trading in New York, snapping a three-day
advance. The benchmark index pared some of its retreat after
housing starts in the U.S. approached a four-year high. Mining
company  Vale SA (VALE5) , whose biggest export market is China, was among
companies falling in Brazil.  Inotera Memories Inc. (3474)  tumbled to a
five-month low after the Taiwanese chipmaker reported a loss and
as  Intel Corp ., the world’s largest semiconductor maker, cut its
forecast.  Wen’s comments yesterday about the labor situation
underscored concern that China’s weakest economic growth since
2009 will lead to increasing job losses. Intel Chief Financial
Officer Stacy Smith said slower spending in Europe and the U.S.
as well as weaker growth in China forced the company to reduce
its sales target for the year. Beginning construction of U.S.
homes rose more than forecast in June, indicating a brighter
outlook for the residential real estate market.  “Investors are concerned that China may be facing a hard
landing as economic activity has been decelerating,” Morgan Harting, a portfolio manager at AllianceBernstein Investments
Inc., managing about $100 million in assets, said by phone.
“Economic trends in the U.S. and China are central to any view
on emerging markets.”  MSCI’s index of developing nations has gained 1.6 percent
this year. The  gauge  trades at a multiple of 10.1 times
estimated earnings, compared with 12.4 for the MSCI World Index
of developed nations, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  EM ETF Slides  The IShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, the  ETF (EEM)  tracking developing-nation shares, lost 0.3
percent to $38.81. The Chicago Board Options Exchange Emerging
Markets  ETF Volatility Index (VXEEM) , a measure of options prices on the
fund and expectations of price swings, tumbled 2.4 percent at
24.11.  Housing starts rose 6.9 percent last month to a 760,000
annual pace after a revised 711,000 rate in May that was faster
than initially estimated, the Commerce Department reported today
in Washington. The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 745,000 rate.  “When housing numbers and jobs numbers are good, that
means we are buying more goods that are made in emerging
countries, which is good for their economies,” Harting said.  Vale fell for a third day, losing 0.4 percent. The Bovespa
stock index gained 1.2 percent, advancing for a second day as
homebuilders rose on speculation that an economic recovery in
Brazil will boost earnings.  China Overseas Land & Investment Ltd. (688) , the biggest Hong
Kong-listed mainland developer by value, fell 4 percent, the
biggest drop since May 31.  Chinese Property  China’s home-price rebound makes it more difficult for the
government to loosen policies aimed at restricting gains in the
property sector, said Nomura Holdings Inc. economist Zhang Zhiwei. Prices climbed in 25 cities out of the 70 the government
looks at and fell in 21 from a month earlier, according to data
released by the statistics bureau today.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.4 percent at the close,
rebounding in the last hour of trade on speculation the
government will announce measures to boost the economy. The
gauge earlier slumped as much as 1 percent to a near three-year
low after Wen’s comments on the nation’s labor situation.  The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  climbed 1 percent in
Johannesburg.  Famous Brands Ltd. (FBR) , a South African owner of fast-
food outlets, jumped 5.7 percent from a one-month low.  Technology Stocks  A  gauge of technology stocks  fell 1.3 percent, the most
among  10 industry groups  in the  MSCI Emerging Markets Index. (MXEF)   Inotera slid 6.9 percent in Taipei after the company
reported a net loss of NT$2.98 billion in the second quarter,
its ninth consecutive quarterly loss.  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s
No. 2 computer-memory chipmaker, retreated 4.9 percent in Seoul.  Intel’s revenue will rise 3 percent to 5 percent in 2012,
the company said in a statement yesterday. That was lower than
an earlier projection for a gain at a percentage in the high
single digits.  India’s rupee weakened 0.7 percent, the most among
emerging-market currencies.  The extra yield investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 347, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
 Jason Webb  in London at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  