-- Temporary Work Demand Rises as Companies Avoid Commitments: Jobs
-- B y   A n n a - L o u i s e   J a c k s o n ,   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s   a n d   A n t h o n y   F e l d
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/temporary-work-demand-rises-as-companies-avoid-commitments-jobs.html
As orders from food makers have
picked up during the past year, Create-A-Pack Foods Inc. turned
to a staffing company,  Kelly Services Inc. (KELYA) , to add about 100
workers.  Hiring on a temporary basis saves money if an employee
doesn’t work out and expands recruiting beyond Create-A-Pack’s
Ixonia, Wisconsin, headquarters, Chief Executive Officer Glenn Cochrane said.  “You can build good crews with temp services,” he said,
noting that the company -- which packages products including
sauces and icings in pouches, bottles and jars -- is seeking to
fill another 28 positions.  Create-A-Pack is among a growing number of businesses
turning to staffing companies for temporary workers, reflecting
employer concern about the U.S. economic outlook. The number of
people on the payrolls of temp-staffing businesses grew 10.7
percent in June to 2.5 million from a year earlier, the biggest
increase since May 2011, based on data from the Labor
Department.  Demand for temporary employees is gaining momentum as
companies seek more flexible staffing arrangements, according to
Tobey Sommer, director of equity research in Nashville at
SunTrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. This has helped create a shift
within the  labor force , as a “not-easily-forgotten recession”
has made many executives cautious about hiring, he said.  Flex Supercycle  A so-called flex supercycle is driving business for  Kforce
Inc. (KFRC) , as a “historically disproportionate” share of new jobs
is coming from the temporary-staffing industry, said Michael Blackman, chief corporate development officer for the Tampa,
Florida-based company. A shortage of highly skilled candidates
in fields such as  information technology  and “extraordinary
uncertainty among employers is leading them to utilize temp
resources,” he said.  The hiring environment reflects employer apprehension about
costs associated with the health-care law upheld by the U.S.
Supreme Court last month and future tax and regulatory policies,
as well as economic risk from the federal  budget deficit  and
recessions in  Europe , Sommer said.  This is causing many customers of Kelly Services to use
temp workers instead of expanding permanent headcount, said  Carl Camden , president and chief executive officer of the Troy,
Michigan-based company.  This trend was pointed out by the  Federal Reserve , which
noted that some of its contacts have “become more cautious in
their hiring and investment decisions,” according to the
minutes of its June policy meeting released July 11.  No Foreshadowing  While hiring among temp workers has historically
foreshadowed gains in the broader job market, this time may be
different as companies rely on temporary staff for a longer
time, said Kforce’s Blackman.  Employers are “looking for the minimum amount of
expenditure on labor, the minimum amount of new hires you have
to make to meet the pretty anemic GDP growth that we have right
now,” Camden said.  U.S. gross domestic product rose 1.9 percent in the first
quarter, after expanding 3 percent in the period ended Dec. 31.
Second-quarter GDP slowed to 1.5 percent, based on the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Increasing demand may boost staffing companies’ financial
results. Total revenue from continuing operations at Kforce will
rise about 1 percent to  $276.6 million  in the period ended June
30 from a year ago, based on the consensus estimate of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Kforce is scheduled to report second-
quarter earnings on July 31, with ManpowerGroup on July 20 and
Kelly Services Aug. 10.  Lagging Index  The  Bloomberg U.S. Employment Services Index (BNUSSTFF)  -- which
includes these companies and 15 others -- has risen 3.3 percent
so far this year, compared with the Russell 2000 Index’s 7.9
percent gain.  Investor  Jack Ablin  at Harris Private Bank in  Chicago  will
be looking for “bellwethers” in the earnings reports about the
health of the labor market, he said. These data are “another
way to triangulate” information released by the government,
which shows that even though employers are opting for temporary
help, at least they aren’t downsizing, he said.  The number of hours worked by Kforce temporary staffers is
a good proxy for this type of hiring, Sommer said. The total was
up 3.4 percent to about 4.4 million hours in the three months
ended March 31 from the prior quarter, he said, adding that a
similar increase in the second quarter, after accounting for the
number of billing days, “would demonstrate robust demand.”  Demand Indicator  Robert Half International Inc.’s (RHI)  temporary-staffing
business -- comprised of its Accountemps, OfficeTeam, Robert
Half Technology and Robert Half Management Resources divisions
-- also is an indicator of demand, Sommer said. If temporary-
staff revenue were to grow more than 10 percent in the first
three weeks of July -- which the  Menlo Park , California-based
company tends to provide on its earnings conference call -- this
“would be a win, given 9 percent expected revenue growth in the
third quarter,” he said.  The portion of temporary workers relative to all employees
on nonfarm payrolls -- the so-called temp-penetration rate --
was 1.9 percent in June, the highest in five years, Labor
Department data show. That’s close to a pre-recession peak of
1.96 in November 2005, said Sommer, who forecasts the ratio will
return to this level by January 2013.  Republicans Attack  Republicans have attacked President  Barack Obama ’s handling
of the economy as part of campaigning for the November election,
with emphasis on persistently high unemployment. Employers added
80,000 jobs in June, the fourth straight month that gains
trailed the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. Payrolls in the temp-staffing industry  expanded  25,200
last month, compared with a loss of 7,700 a year ago.  If demand remains sluggish and employer concerns about the
economic and business climate worsen, companies may be forced to
curtail temporary hiring. The  unemployment rate  remained at 8.2
percent in June -- marking 41 consecutive months above 8 percent
-- as the total number of Americans on nonfarm payrolls lagged a
January 2008 peak by more than 4.9 million.  For now, companies are focused on remaining agile,
according to Jeffrey Joerres, chief executive officer of
Milwaukee-based  ManpowerGroup. (MAN)  There are “a lot of bad
consequences when you get too bold without looking at these
risks.”  Project Assignments  The same principles for other supply chains -- like just-
in-time practices -- also can be applied to talent, said Teresa
Carroll, senior vice president for Kelly Services.  “More and more work is being done on a project basis”
with an employee having a job for the duration of the
assignment, she said.  By turning to Kelly Services,  Create-A-Pack  reduced the
amount of time it takes to get people on the floor of its
facility to between one and four weeks compared with as many as
10 weeks, Cochrane said.  While temporary work isn’t always a job seekers’ first
choice, Kimberly Smith, 43, said she would take this type of
position as a bridge to a permanent post with higher pay and
benefits.  “It is a good thing because at least you get your foot in
the door and get a job,” said Smith, of Riverdale,  Georgia ,
who’s been unemployed for a year after losing a job at a check-
cashing company. “One you are there a period of time, if you
are good, they will keep you.”  Small companies aren’t the only ones using temporary labor.
 Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest maker of construction and mining
equipment, had 28,472 so-called flexible workers as of March 31,
representing about 18 percent of total employment, according to
data from the Peoria, Illinois-based company.  ManpowerGroup’s Joerres hears a familiar theme “again and
again” from customers: Until they have more information,
executives are delaying hiring, he said. Otherwise, they say,
“I’m going to be caught with too many people and it’s painful,
it’s expensive, it hurts morale.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna-Louise Jackson in  New York  at 
 ajackson36@bloomberg.net ;
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Feld in New York at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Feld at 
 afeld2@bloomberg.net  