-- EnVivo Pharmaceuticals’ Drug Helps Memory in Early Study
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-07-18T15:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/envivo-pharmaceuticals-drug-helps-memory-in-early-study.html
EnVivo Pharmaceuticals Inc.’s pill
designed to stimulate the same brain receptors as nicotine
helped improve memory in Alzheimer’s patients after 23 weeks, an
early trial showed.  Patients given the drug at the highest dose improved on two
measures of memory, according to data presented today at the
 Alzheimer’s Association International Conference  in  Vancouver .
The subjects, who had mild to moderate disease, improved whether
or not they were taking another Alzheimer’s medication.  EnVivo’s drug targets the nicotinic A7 receptors, which are
located in parts of the brain that help control learning. Like
nicotine, the medicine activates the processes that boost
learning and memory, without nicotine’s side-effects. Previous
studies have suggested  nicotine  can enhance cognitive functions.  “This is promising and has potential,” said  Laurie Ryan ,
the program director for Alzheimer’s disease clinical trials at
the National Institute on Aging in Bethesda,  Maryland . The
effect needs to be replicated in larger, later-stage trials, she
said. “We’ve been talking a lot about pre-symptomatic trials,
but we still need treatments for people with the full disease.”  Alzheimer’s may affect 16 million Americans by 2050, an
increase from 5.4 million now, according to U.S. health
officials. While efforts are under way to delay or prevent the
disease, people already diagnosed will need therapies to help
them with the activities of daily living, Ryan said.  EnVivo, based in Watertown,  Massachusetts , tested more than
400 people, in four groups: with a placebo, a 0.3-milligram
pill, a 1-milligram dose and a 2-milligram quantity. The 2-
milligram dose had significant benefits over the placebo on two
measures of thinking ability. The trial was the second of three
phases typically required for U.S. regulatory approval.  The closely held company is examining its options for Phase
3 trials, said Kees Been, chief executive officer of EnVivo.
Though EnVivo wants to commercialize the drugs, the company will
need a partner, Been said in an interview.  “The world is very large, and too big for us on our own,”
Been said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  