-- Ericsson Misses Estimates as Carriers Curb Spending
-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 2012-07-18T09:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/ericsson-misses-estimates-as-carriers-curb-spending.html
Ericsson AB, the world’s largest
maker of mobile-phone networks, reported second-quarter profit
that missed analysts’ estimates as carriers curbed spending to
cope with a slowing economy. The stock fell to a 3 1/2-year low.  Net income declined 64 percent to 1.11 billion kronor
($158 million), Stockholm-based Ericsson said today. Analysts
predicted 1.64 billion kronor, the average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Gross margin, the percentage of sales left after
costs of goods sold, narrowed to 32 percent from 37.8 percent.  Phone operators are cutting back on network investments as
 Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on global economic growth and
 consumer spending . Alcatel-Lucent SA, France’s largest phone-
gear supplier, predicted yesterday it will miss a 2012 profit
target. Demand slowed in  China  and Russia, Ericsson Chief
Executive Officer  Hans Vestberg  said in a statement.  “I’m broadly disappointed with the report,”  Andy Perkins ,
an analyst at  Societe Generale  in  London , said in an interview.
“It’s not a great set of numbers as their core business is still
shrinking. This is a big problem. The pickup in network spending
just isn’t happening.”  Ericsson  slumped  as much as 5.1 percent to 55.90 kronor,
its lowest level since January 2009, and traded at 56.70 kronor
at 11:37 a.m. Stockholm time.  The company cited less-lucrative network modernization
projects for the gross-margin pressure. Analysts estimated a
margin of 33.2 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales climbed 0.9 percent to 55.3 billion kronor, compared
with the average 54.9 billion-krona estimate.  China Slowdown  Business activity in China declined, Ericsson said, joining
companies including  Intel Corp . in citing a slowdown in the
world’s most populous country. The world’s largest chipmaker
said yesterday growth in the country has moderated.  China’s
economy  grew in the second quarter at the slowest pace since the
depths of the global financial crisis in 2009.  Carriers in general are spending less than a year earlier,
and Ericsson is affected by less-profitable network-upgrade
projects accounting for more of its business, Vestberg said
today in an interview.  “We just need to muddle through this and execute on our
strategy, while also lowering our costs as we come out of this,”
Vestberg said.  Slower Growth  Modernization contracts in Europe, which require labor-
intensive equipment replacement and are often less profitable,
could depress margins for several years, the company told
investors in November. The margin effect of such projects will
start to gradually decline at the end of this year, Ericsson
said today. That prediction is “encouraging,” said  Alexander Peterc , an analyst at Exane BNP Paribas in London.  Ericsson’s network revenue fell 17 percent as sales of
CDMA, or code-division multiple access, equipment declined. That
standard is used in markets including China and the U.S.
Services sales rose 26 percent and support solutions revenue
increased 47 percent.  In March, Ericsson lowered its sales-growth target for the
years ahead, projecting compound growth of 2 percent to 8
percent through 2014.  Ericsson said yesterday second-quarter loss at ST-Ericsson,
the chipmaking joint venture with STMicroelectronics SA, widened
to $318 million from $221 million a year earlier. Revenue fell
11 percent to $344 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Ewing in Stockholm at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  