-- German Lawmakers Back European Bailout of Spanish Banks
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-07-19T15:53:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/merkel-coalition-set-to-back-spain-bank-aid-in-parliament-vote.html
German lawmakers backed a euro-area
bailout of Spanish banks after Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  gave assurances that Spain will remain liable for the
aid and parliament will be consulted on each step of the rescue.  Lower-house lawmakers were forced to interrupt their summer
break as they were recalled to Berlin for a special session on
bank recapitalizations for Spain of as much as 100 billion euros
($123 billion). They voted 473 to 97 in favor of the bill after
the main opposition parties were persuaded to back Chancellor
 Angela Merkel ’s government and most coalition dissent quelled.  Spain faces “an emergency situation” and  Germany  has “a
strong interest” to support the country’s economic overhaul by
helping shore up Spanish banks, Schaeuble told lawmakers today
as he opened the debate. “Spain is making the application,
Spain is getting the money for bank recapitalization and the
Spanish state must guarantee the funds.”  Spain has moved center-stage in the debt crisis now in its
third year. Lawmakers in Berlin were reminded of the challenges
Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s government faces as borrowing
costs surged at an auction of five-year notes, pushing Spain’s
10-year benchmark bond yields past the 7 percent threshold that
prompted sovereign bailouts in  Greece , Ireland and  Portugal .
Germany pays about 1.23 percent to borrow for 10 years.  Market ‘Doubt’  “There’s doubt in the markets that the Spanish state can
solve the problems in its banking sector without putting its own
solvency at risk,” Schaeuble said. “That makes the problems in
the Spanish banking sector a problem of the euro zone’s
financial stability.”  While there was broad support to help Spain within Merkel’s
coalition and the main opposition Social Democrats and Greens,
lawmakers demanded reassurances that German taxpayer money will
be channeled via the Spanish government and not go directly to
banks themselves. They raised concerns that loopholes may enable
such a route when the program shifts from the current rescue
fund to the permanent European Stability Mechanism.  “Schaeuble reassured us today that there will be no
possibility to sidestep the liability issue in the process of
transferring Spanish bank rescue aid,”  Michael Fuchs , deputy
parliamentary leader of Merkel’s Christian Democratic Union
party, said in an interview in Berlin. “We want to make sure
there are no tricks,” that there is no “circumventing state
liability,” he said. “The German parliament will be involved
all the way.”  Chancellor’s Majority  Merkel’s coalition controls 330 of the 620 seats in the
lower house of parliament, the Bundestag. She needed 311 of
those votes for the so-called chancellor’s majority that she
failed to secure twice this year, when parliament backed the
second aid program for Greece and when it approved the ESM. Both
measures passed with support from the opposition. A breakdown of
the vote will be published later today.  A test vote among Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  and their
Bavarian sister party, the  Christian Social Union , yielded 12
dissenters,  Volker Kauder , the bloc’s floor leader, told
reporters. Another four members of Merkel’s Free Democratic
coalition partner had indicated they would oppose the bill.  For all the speculation over the Spanish vote, Merkel saw
her approval rating for managing the crisis in general rise to
63 percent from 60 percent two months ago, ZDF public television
said July 13, citing a poll it commissioned from FG Wahlen.
Merkel hinted the same day that she will seek a third term at
national elections due in the fall of 2013, saying that the euro
crisis will be a dominant theme.  Latest Polls  Her CDU/CSU bloc leads the Social Democrats by 36 percent
to 26 percent, a weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine showed
yesterday. That compares with the 33.8 percent her bloc won at
the last election in 2009, when the SPD took 23 percent. Even
so, neither her alliance with the Free Democrats nor the SPD and
Greens would win enough votes for a majority if elections were
held now, the poll showed.  Schaeuble briefed members of the all-party Budget Committee
on  Spain  late yesterday, giving him an opportunity to reiterate
his stance that there will be no direct help for banks from the
ESM without changes to its rules and to German law.  Parliament will in the meantime have a right to veto any
rule changes to the temporary rescue fund that would allow
direct bank aid, said Hans Michelbach, a senior CSU lawmaker.
That means parliament will have to vote again on the details at
the time of the changeover to the permanent fund, he said.  “Critics say these are the first steps toward a
mutualization of European bank rescues,” Michelbach told
reporters before the vote. “I don’t see it that way.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  