-- Merkel Says More Work Is Needed to Make European Project Succeed
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-07-18T12:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/merkel-says-more-work-is-needed-to-make-european-project-succeed.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  called on
fellow leaders to work harder to make  Europe  succeed without
waiting for unconditional German help, suggesting the euro will
be in jeopardy unless policy makers do more to defend it.  “We haven’t yet shaped the European project in a way that
we can be sure that everything will work, will turn out well,”
Merkel said in an interview posted on her Christian Democratic
Union party’s website today. “That means we have to keep
working. Still, I’m optimistic that we will succeed.”  One day before German lawmakers vote on a European bank
bailout for  Spain , Merkel indicated that she won’t take on
additional burdens to stem the euro area’s debt crisis without
stronger checks on countries’ budgets. The principle of “no
liability unless we can really exercise control” is shared by
“a large part” of the German population, she said.  Merkel is fending off pressure from Italian Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  and French President  Francois Hollande  to underwrite
euro-area debt as the European Union considers joint steps to
shield banks from the crisis as part of moves toward deeper EU
integration. She remains the most popular politician in Europe’s
largest economy with national elections due in the fall of 2013.  The chancellor’s Christian Democratic bloc led the main
opposition  Social Democrats  by 36 percent to 26 percent, a
weekly Forsa poll for Stern magazine showed today. That compares
with the 33.8 percent Merkel’s bloc won at the last election in
2009, when the SPD took 23 percent.  IMF Outlook  The economy, while showing signs of slowing, is still
faring better than its counterparts. Unemployment rose in June
for the fourth month this year, yet remains at a two-decade low
of 6.8 percent. The  International Monetary Fund  on July 16
raised its forecast for German economic growth this year to 1
percent, while predicting the 17-nation euro area will contract
0.3 percent.  Germany  “only does well if our European neighbors are
doing well,” Merkel said in the interview. Even so, that euro
countries can’t expect “solidarity” unless they make an effort
of their own in return remains one of her “basic principles,”
she said.  Speaking to reporters later after talks with Thai Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra, Merkel said that she was
“optimistic” lower-house lawmakers will approve Spain’s rescue
aid in tomorrow’s vote. The chancellor said that she saw “no
indications” of any need for further special sessions of
parliament this summer.  In the interview, Merkel, who grew up in former East
Germany and turned 58 yesterday, said the collapse of Communism
still shapes her view of Europe and the world.  “I’m inspired by the experience of freedom,” she said.
“I lived for many years in East Germany and I know what it
means when you can’t travel and when you can’t speak your mind
freely. It’s great that we have overcome the  Cold War  and that
we don’t have to fear war today in Europe.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  