-- EU Abandons Plan to End Liquids Curbs in Air Travel in 2013
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-07-18T10:40:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/eu-abandons-plan-to-end-liquids-curbs-in-air-travel-in-2013.html
The European Union abandoned a plan
to force its airports to install equipment for screening liquids
in carry-on bags as of next year, delaying the end of anti-
terrorism curbs on drinks that travelers can take on board.  The European Commission had said it would propose to scrap
a provision in EU law under which the bloc’s airports must start
using such scanning technology, made by companies including
 Smiths Group Plc (SMIN) , by April 2013. The commission, the 27-nation
EU’s regulatory arm, recommended an indefinite delay because of
the need for improvements in the equipment.  “The removal of the restrictions in April 2013, as
currently envisaged in EU law, could present a considerable
operational risk mainly due to the scale of the change,” the
commission said in a statement today in Brussels. It will seek
to amend the legislation by November, a process that requires
the backing of EU governments and the European Parliament, with
which the commission has already consulted.  The EU is trying to find ways to limit security hassles for
airline travelers without weakening anti-terrorism protections.
The bloc restricted the amount of liquid that passengers can
take on board in 2006 after the U.K. uncovered an Islamic-
terrorist plot to blow up U.S.-bound flights using liquid
explosives carried in soft-drink bottles.  Under the EU rules, the maximum size of bottles allowed in
carry-on bags is 100 milliliters (3.4 fluid ounces), and each
passenger’s liquid containers must fit in one transparent
sealable bag with a volume of no more than 1 liter (1.1 quarts).
The curbs cover liquids, aerosols and gels.  The EU set the April 2013 deadline in 2010, seeking to give
sufficient time for more advanced screening technologies and to
provide an incentive for their development. Currently, X-rays
used for hand luggage have a more limited ability to detect
explosives than the bigger screening equipment used for checked
bags.  The EU first backtracked on the existing legislation last
year, when it abandoned a plan to ease conditions for transfer
passengers who have made purchases at duty-free shops in
airports outside the bloc or on foreign carriers. Those
travelers were supposed to have been allowed to carry on
screened liquids, aerosols and gels by April 2011.  The commission said today it would seek to reintroduce the
provision for transfer passengers in January 2014 while stopping
short of proposing a precise date for the full removal of the
limits on liquids in hand luggage.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  