-- EU Regulators Seek Green Light for Japan Free-Trade Talks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-07-18T16:39:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/eu-regulators-seek-green-light-for-free-trade-talks-with-japan.html
European Union regulators asked EU
nations for approval to start talks with  Japan  on a free-trade
agreement, seeking to expand economic ties with  Asia  after an
accord with  South Korea .  The European Commission, the EU’s regulatory arm, presented
its proposal for negotiations with Japan on removing commercial
barriers such as tariffs. The commission also aims to scale back
non-tariff barriers in the Japanese market for financial
services and for goods such as cars and pharmaceuticals.  “Trade liberalization remains the cheapest way we have to
stimulate our economy,” European Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht told reporters today in Brussels. “The ball is now in the
member states’ court. I would ask them to seize this opportunity
and to give the commission a mandate to start negotiations
soon.”  The EU is sidestepping stalled World Trade Organization
efforts to open markets by seeking commerce pacts with
individual countries or groups of nations.  The 27-nation bloc struck a trade accord with  Korea  that
took effect last year and is close to ratifying a pact with
Colombia and  Peru  that will strengthen European ties with  Latin
America  after earlier agreements with Mexico and  Chile . The EU
is also nearing completion of free-trade negotiations with
Canada and considering seeking a similar deal with the U.S.  Extra Jobs  De Gucht said  Europe , battling the third year of the euro-
area debt crisis, can’t afford to forego the chance for a trade
pact with Japan. He said a “huge number” of European
industries including pharmaceuticals, chemicals, food and drink,
and express delivery supports the initiative and a deal could
create 400,000 extra jobs in the EU.  “We need these jobs,”  De Gucht  said. “Overlooking Japan
would be a serious mistake in our trade strategy.”  EU governments may assess the commission proposal in the
coming months and any talks with Japan could last for years.
Some EU governments and industries are sensitive about deepening
commercial ties with Asia.  The accord with Korea was opposed by European carmakers
that are also concerned about the stiffer competition from a
possible free-trade pact with Japan. De Gucht said the EU would
target the removal of car-market regulatory obstacles in Japan
to ensure a level playing field.  “Europe will not reduce any tariffs before Japan delivers
concrete results on regulatory barriers, and this includes the
car sector,” he said. “We will walk to the negotiation table
with a very strong starting position.”  De Gucht also pledged to cut off talks with Japan after 12
months should the government fail to follow a “roadmap”
already outlined for dismantling non-tariff barriers.  “If the implementation has not been satisfactory, I will
stop the negotiations,” De Gucht said. “I don’t think we can
be any clearer than that in our ambitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  