-- Dollar Falls Versus Commodity Currencies as Investors Seek Yield
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-07-18T21:21:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/euro-falls-as-merkel-says-european-project-at-risk-pound-drops.html
The dollar weakened against
currencies of commodity-exporting nations including Australia
and  Canada  as investors sought higher-yielding assets and
equities advanced.  The euro fell to its lowest since 2000 versus Sweden’s
krona after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the “European
project” is at risk unless policy makers work harder. Sterling
declined against the greenback after the Bank of England said
 interest-rate  cuts may be appropriate. Federal Reserve Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  repeated to Congress the central bank is ready
to take more steps to boost the economy if necessary.  “Stocks are marching higher even in the face of what looks
to be a slowdown in the  U.S. economy ; that is helping risk
currencies such as  Mexico ,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on
the corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in  New
York . “Currencies are definitely following stocks today, and
with all the central banks easing, all the money is looking for
a home.”  Australia ’s currency rallied against all of its 16 most-
traded peers, gaining 0.5 percent to $1.0363 at 5 p.m. New York
time. The Aussie touched $1.0374, the strongest since May 1.  New
Zealand ’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to 80.04 U.S. cents, and the
Canadian dollar added 0.2 percent to C$1.0102.  The euro weakened 0.1 percent to $1.2284, after dropping as
much as 0.6 percent, and slid 0.4 percent to 96.80 yen. The
dollar fell 0.3 percent versus the Japanese currency to 78.80.  ‘Modest’ Growth  The dollar remained lower versus the Aussie and higher
against the euro after the Fed released its Beige Book business
survey. It said the economy expanded at a “modest to moderate”
pace last month as retail sales and manufacturing cooled in some
regions. The report gives central bankers anecdotal evidence on
the economy two weeks before they open a two-day policy meeting
on July 31.  U.S. stocks advanced after companies from Honeywell
International Inc. to  Intel Corp . reported profit that beat
analysts’ estimates. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  increased
0.7 percent.  “We’ve been relying on U.S. corporate strength for some
time,” said  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency sales at
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. in New York. “All through the
recession the earnings have not been terrible. If you started to
see the reverse, that companies are not doing well, that would
definitely spook the market.”  Volatility Drops         Implied volatility  on three-month options for Group-of-
Seven currencies touched 8.67 percent, the lowest level since
November 2007, according to the JPMorgan G7  Volatility Index .
Lower volatility makes investments in currencies of nations with
higher benchmark  interest rates  more attractive because the risk
in such trades is that market moves will erase profits. The
average over the past five years is 12.4 percent.  Key rates in New Zealand and Australia are 2.5 percent and
3.5 percent, versus zero to 0.25 percent in the U.S.  The dollar rose against the euro for the first time in four
days as U.S.  Treasury 10-year note yields  fell to within four
basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, of a record low 1.4387
percent reached on June 1.  An auction of German two-year notes drew a negative yield
for the first time as investors sought the safety of  Europe ’s
benchmark government debt as a haven from the financial turmoil
in the 17-nation currency bloc.  ‘Relative Support’  “There are sharply negative rates in places like
Switzerland, Denmark and  Germany ,” said  Alan Ruskin , global
head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG in New York. “The Fed, from a currency standpoint, is
actually for once looking like it’s behind other central banks.
Two-year interest rates of 0.3 percent are looking attractive
compared to some other places in the world, which is giving the
dollar a level of relative support.”  The  European Central Bank   cut  its benchmark interest rate
to a record low 0.75 percent on July 5, and the Bank of England
raised its asset-purchase target. China reduced interest rates
that day for the second time in a month.  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion  of bonds from 2008 to 2011 in
two rounds of a tactic called quantitative easing to spur
growth. It’s “prepared to take further action as appropriate,”
Bernanke told the House Financial Services Committee today,
reiterating earlier statements.  U.K. Rate  The  Bank of England ’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee
was unanimous in a decision to keep its  benchmark interest rate 
at a record low 0.5 percent this month, minutes of the July 4-5
meeting released today showed. While it said cutting the rate
had “drawbacks” compared with more asset purchases and the
arguments for and against such a move were the same as in June,
this assessment could change in light of new credit measures.  Sterling depreciated as much as 0.5 percent to $1.5582
before trading little changed at $1.5653. It advanced 0.1
percent to 78.46 pence per euro and touched 78.30 pence, the
strongest since October 2008.  Europe’s shared currency fell against the majority of its
16 most-traded counterparts tracked by Bloomberg.  “We haven’t yet shaped the European project in a way that
we can be sure that everything will work, will turn out well,”
Merkel said in an interview with her Christian Democratic Union
party’s website posted today. “That means we have to keep
working. Still, I’m optimistic that we will succeed.”  Sweden ’s currency climbed amid speculation the nation’s
central bank won’t act to halt gains in the currency of the
largest Nordic economy.  The Swedish krona gained as much as 0.9 percent to 8.4781
per euro, its strongest since December 2000, before trading at
8.5182, up 0.5 percent. It appreciated 0.4 percent to 6.9345 per
dollar.  The yen reversed yesterday’s losses against the dollar,
trading below 79 to the dollar for a third straight day.  The greenback fell through its 200-day moving average of
79.06 and may now find support at its June 15 low of 78.61 yen,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  