-- Ex-Penn State President Spanier Drops Lawsuit Against School
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-18T18:04:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/ex-penn-state-president-spanier-drops-lawsuit-against-school-1-.html
Ex-Pennsylvania State University
President  Graham Spanier  dropped his lawsuit against the school
over access to e-mails, according to a court filing.  Spanier, who was fired in November, sued  Penn State  in May
over the school’s refusal to grant him access to e-mails from
1998 through 2004 that he claims were relevant to an internal
probe into sex abuse allegations against former coach Jerry Sandusky.  Lawyers for Spanier today asked a court clerk to mark the
case “discontinued and ended without prejudice,” according to
papers filed in state court in Bellefonte, Pennsylvania.  Sandusky, 68, a former Penn State assistant football coach,
was convicted last month on 45 criminal counts tied to abuse of
boys over a 15-year period. A special investigation by  Louis Freeh , the former Federal Bureau of Investigation director,
concluded that Spanier, former head coach  Joe Paterno  and other
senior school officials covered up critical facts surrounding
Sandusky’s abuse.  Spanier’s lawyers denied the claims in a statement last
week. The former president was never told of any incident
involving Sandusky that described child abuse or sexual
misconduct in his 16 years on the job, according to the
statement. Spanier hasn’t been charged with any wrongdoing.  His attorneys, Peter Vaira and John Riley, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the dropped
complaint. A hearing scheduled for Aug. 17 in the case was
canceled, according to a notice on the court’s website.  The case is Spanier v. The  Pennsylvania State University ,
2012-2065, Court of Common Pleas of Centre County Pennsylvania
(Bellefonte).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  