-- Facebook Shares Under Pressure Amid Growth-Slowdown Concerns
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-07-18T20:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/facebook-shares-under-pressure-amid-growth-slowdown-concerns.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  shares are under
pressure in the run-up to an earnings report, due next week,
that will probably indicate growth slowed in the second quarter.  The shares pared losses today, rising 3.6 percent to $29.11
at the close in  New York . Including today’s gain, the stock has
 dropped  23 percent since its May 17 initial public offering.  The largest social-networking service is struggling to add
users in some markets, including the U.S., that make up  most  of
its sales, according to Capstone Investments research. A
predicted sales slowdown led analysts to slice second-quarter
revenue projections 4 percent to $1.16 billion in the past
month,  data  compiled by Bloomberg show. The prediction for per-
share profit, excluding some items, fell 10 percent to 11 cents.  “People are concerned about the growth profile,” said
 Benjamin Schachter , an analyst at Macquarie Securities USA Inc.
“More risk is being reflected in the lower stock price.”  U.S. users on  Facebook ’s site slipped 1.1 percent, Rory Maher, an analyst at Capstone, wrote in a note yesterday, citing
analysis of Facebook users in more than 200 countries.  “Perhaps penetration in the U.S. is reaching maturity,
which has implications for revenue growth and user growth,”
Maher said in an interview. “It’s reason to be concerned.”  ‘Lockup’ Ending  Shares will probably be weighed down further as Facebook
nears the end of its “lockup” -- a post-IPO period during
which Securities and Exchange Commission regulations bar
insiders from unloading shares. Some employees will be able to
freely sell stock next month, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Another concern for investors is the company’s ability to
make money from advertisers vying to reach social-network users
on mobile devices. Facebook Chief Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  is focused on adapting his service to mobile devices,
where growth in usage is outpacing sales from mobile ads.
Bringing Facebook’s features to handheld gadgets is difficult
because the user experience is so different than on desktop
computers, he said in an interview at the Allen & Co. conference
in  Sun Valley ,  Idaho .  Ads shown on mobile phones are smaller and may be less
appealing to advertisers and less lucrative than marketing
messages on bigger computers. This concern prompted Facebook,
just days before the IPO, to advise analysts to lower their
estimates for second-quarter sales.  Mobile Growth  “Growth in use of Facebook through our mobile products,
where our ability to monetize is unproven, as a substitute for
use on personal computers may negatively affect our revenue and
financial results,” Facebook said in an  SEC filing  at the time.  If second-quarter sales meet  projections , Facebook would
see an increase of 30 percent from a year earlier. Revenue rose
45 percent in the first quarter, compared with 55 percent in the
fourth quarter. Sales more than doubled in each of the three
periods before that.  Average analyst estimates dropped in late June, when at
least 17 securities firms began coverage of the company. Morgan
Stanley gave Facebook the equivalent of a buy rating, as did
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and five other
firms. Among  analysts  who cover Facebook, there are 19 buy
ratings, 16 holds and 3 sells.  Competitive concerns were also raised this week, as Google
Inc.’s social network debuted at the top spot on the American
Customer Satisfaction Index E-Business Report, which ranks
companies on a 100-point scale. Facebook, criticized for changes
to its interface, had a lower score than in previous years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in  San Francisco  at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  