-- Fed Beige Book Says Growth Was ‘Modest to Moderate’ in June
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-07-18T18:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/fed-beige-book-says-growth-was-modest-to-moderate-in-june-1-.html
The  Federal Reserve  said the economy
expanded at a “modest to moderate” pace in June and early
July, as retail sales and manufacturing cooled in some regions.  “Manufacturing activity continued to expand slowly in most
districts,” the Fed said today in its  Beige Book  business
survey, which is based on reports from its 12 district banks.
“Employment levels improved at a tepid pace.”  The  New York , Philadelphia, and Cleveland districts “noted
that activity continued to expand, but at a slower pace since
the last report, while Richmond cited mixed activity.”  The report, which gives central bankers anecdotal evidence
on the economy two weeks before they meet in Washington,
supports Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s view that the U.S. lost
momentum in the first half of 2012. Bernanke, in a second day of
congressional testimony today, repeated that progress on
unemployment may be “frustratingly slow” and the Fed is ready
to take further action to boost the recovery if necessary.  “Overall, the report is tepid,”  Diane Swonk , chief
economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in  Chicago , said in an
interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with
 Kathleen Hays . “It really echoes what the chairman has been
telling us for the last two days, and that is that economic
outlook is not looking too great. The economy has slowed.”  The Atlanta,  St. Louis , and San Francisco districts were
described as having “modest growth,” while Boston, Chicago,
Minneapolis,  Kansas City , and Dallas were “advancing
moderately.” By comparison, in the June 6 report, seven
districts were growing “moderately” and just one was reported
to have slowed.  Shares Rise  Stocks held gains after the report. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index advanced 0.7 percent to 1,372.47 at 2:37 p.m. in New
York after housing starts increased at the fastest rate in
almost four years and companies from  Intel Corp. (INTC)  to Honeywell
International Inc. reported profit that beat estimates. The
benchmark 10-year Treasury yield declined three basis points, or
0.03 percentage point, to 1.48 percent.  Today’s Beige Book reflects information collected on or
before July 9 and summarized by the Atlanta Fed.  “Retail sales increased slightly in all reporting
Districts except Boston and Cleveland, where sales were
categorized as flat, and New York, where sales softened,” the
report said.  FOMC Meeting  The policy-making  Federal Open Market Committee  meets for
two days starting July 31. The group voted last month to extend
Operation Twist, a program intended to push down long-term
borrowing costs by extending the maturities of assets on the
Fed’s balance sheet. As many as four policy makers were “quite
receptive at this time” to more asset purchases, Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart  said July 13, citing minutes of the
June meeting.  Retail sales unexpectedly declined in June for a third
straight month, a sign that limited progress in  job creation  is
holding back the biggest part of the economy, Commerce
Department figures showed July 16.  The U.S. added 80,000 jobs in June, and the  unemployment
rate  remained at 8.2 percent, the Labor Department reported July
6. Growth in private payrolls was the weakest in 10 months. The
figures underscore Bernanke’s concern that growth may not be
fast enough to lower unemployment stuck above 8 percent since
February 2009.  “Consumers across the globe continue to feel the effects
and impacts of prolonged uncertainty in Europe, the further
cooling of the economy in China, and a protracted recovery here
in the United States,”  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  Chief Executive Officer
Muhtar Kent said in a conference call yesterday. The Atlanta-
based company is the world’s biggest soft-drink maker.  Housing, Construction  The Beige Book said housing reports were “largely positive
as sales and construction levels increased and home inventories
declined.” In addition, “Rental markets continued to
strengthen.”  “We have seen modest signs of improvement in housing,”
Bernanke said in his testimony to Congress. “In part because of
historically low  mortgage rates , both new and existing home
sales have been gradually trending upward since last summer.”  At the same time, he said, tight lending standards are
making it difficult for would-be home-buyers to get financing,
and an overhang of vacant homes is diverting demand from new
construction.  Housing Starts  Housing  starts  rose 6.9 percent to a 760,000 annual pace
after a revised 711,000 rate in May that was faster than
initially estimated, the Commerce Department reported today. The
median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a 745,000 rate.  “Manufacturing activity continued to expand slowly in most
Districts, and Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City
cited slight increases in production levels,” the Fed said.
“However, several districts reported a deceleration in new
orders.”  Manufacturing in the U.S. unexpectedly shrank in June for
the first time since the economy emerged from the recession
three years ago, the  Institute for Supply Management ’s index
showed July 2.  The recovery over the past three years has been marked by
periods of solid growth followed by disappointing slowdowns, Fed
Kansas City Bank President Esther George said July 16. “It
looks like this summer’s slowdown will be no exception to that”
and annual growth will be “not much beyond 2 percent.”  The  U.S. economy  will probably expand 2.1 percent in 2012
and 2.2 percent in 2013, according to the median of 72
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News July 6 to July 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  