-- FHA to Expand Bulk Sales of Defaulted Mortgages in Program
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-07-18T21:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/fha-to-expand-bulk-sales-of-defaulted-mortgages-in-program-1-.html
The  Federal Housing Administration 
will sell more defaulted mortgages than it first anticipated in
a program to cut losses on mounting foreclosures across the
country, Carol Galante, acting FHA commissioner, said today.  The government mortgage insurer will auction approximately
9,000 discounted loans in the September start of the program,
including 3,500 earmarked for neighborhood development programs
in four major metropolitan areas. FHA estimated it would sell
5,000 delinquent loans every quarter when it announced the
program in June.  “It’s a little bit of chicken and egg,” Galante said in a
conference call with reporters. “Once we decided to do this on
a quarterly basis, on a larger scale than we had previously,
that generates interest both for the existing servicers who are
needing to cooperate with a loan-sale program, as well as
interest from buyers of these loans.”  The effort, which began with a pilot program in 2010,
offers discounts to investors of as much as 65 percent off the
unpaid balance. Buyers of the loans are encouraged to write them
down in an effort to keep borrowers in their homes.  The program may also help the FHA reduce its liability from
defaulted loans, according to Isaac Boltansky, vice president
for research at Compass Point Research & Trading LLC in
 Washington . “What we’re seeing at the FHA is a government
agency that has a precarious capital position who is taking
steps to improve that as much as possible,” he said in a phone
interview.  Investor Requirements  Investors, who can apply to qualify as an eligible bidder
beginning today, must agree not to foreclose on borrowers within
the first six months of purchase while they work to modify the
terms of the loan. No more than half the loans sold can end in
foreclosure under the terms of the auction.  Loans on properties in Chicago, Phoenix, Tampa,  Florida  and
 Newark ,  New Jersey  will be sold to investors expressly committed
to neighborhood stabilization. Those cities, in which mortgage
pools range from approximately 300 loans in Phoenix to 1,500 in
 Chicago , were chosen to represent a range of market conditions,
Galante said.  The 5,000 loans not designated for neighborhood
stabilization will be divided into smaller pools whose sizes
have not yet been determined, according to Galante.  Bidders on neighborhood stabilization loan pools must
demonstrate experience in property management and helping
borrowers, Galante said. They must commit to community
development through means such as modifying mortgages, leasing
to current homeowners, or selling or donating discounted loans
to an FHA grantee.  Program’s Emphasis  “Explicit emphasis will also be placed on state and local
governments as well as non-profit and community-based entities
as part of the bidding process,” Galante said.  The FHA sold 2,100 discounted loans through its pilot
program beginning in 2010. Most of the notes remained delinquent
a year later, according to agency data.  The agency does not yet have enough specific long-term data
from the pilot program to predict outcomes for the program,
Galante said.  The FHA calculates that the amount it will recoup from loan
sales is greater than the amount it would lose if the properties
were foreclosed on and put on the market. The agency currently
owns 40,441 foreclosed properties, which each cost an average of
$30 a day to maintain and market, according to FHA deputy press
secretary Tiffany Thomas Smith.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Fidel in Washington at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  