-- Foreign Flight School Students in U.S. Aren’t All Getting Vetted
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-07-18T16:41:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/foreign-flight-school-students-in-u-s-aren-t-all-getting-vetted.html
American officials aren’t doing
background checks on all foreigners who apply to flight schools,
more than a decade after al-Qaeda terrorists who helped carry
out the Sept. 11 attacks received flight training in the U.S.,
according to a government investigator.  An unspecified number of the 25,599 foreigners who applied
for U.S. pilot licenses between January 2006 and September 2011
weren’t vetted by the  Transportation Security Administration ,
said Stephen M. Lord, a director at the Government
Accountability Office, Congress’s auditor, in written testimony
for a U.S. House panel today.  Foreigners who weren’t vetted still received training and a
license, Lord said at a House Homeland Security subcommittee
hearing today on the security gaps. Under a TSA program, foreign
nationals seeking U.S. flight training must receive a security
threat assessment.  Mohammad Atta, the lead Sept. 11 hijacker, and some of his
accomplices received flight training at U.S. schools. Their
training raised concern with a Phoenix-based  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  agent who wrote a memo before the attacks that
wasn’t heeded by other security officials.  “It is completely unacceptable that a decade after 9-11,
GAO has uncovered weaknesses in our security controls that were
supposed to be fixed,” said Representative Mike Rogers, an
Alabama Republican who heads the subcommittee.  Illegal Immigrants  In a March 2010 case, U.S. immigration officials found that
a Boston-area flight school owned by an illegal immigrant had
trained eight people who were in the country illegally and still
passed the TSA background check, Lord said.  Six of those went on to receive some form of pilot’s
certification, he said.  The TSA vetting process is “rigorous” and includes
checking student applicants’ backgrounds for terrorist and
criminal activities and immigration violations, said Kerwin
Wilson, a branch manager with TSA’s Office of Security Policy
and Industry Engagement.  Still, “TSA concurs with the GAO recommendations on
identifying how often and why foreign nationals are not
vetted,” he said in a written statement submitted to the panel.
The TSA is part of the Homeland Security Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  