-- Franken Questions Facebook on Facial Recognition Feature
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-07-18T21:10:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/franken-questions-facebook-on-facial-recognition-feature.html
Facebook Inc. (FB)  should do more to
inform users about its use of facial recognition technology and
what it’s doing with its growing database of photos, U.S.
Senator  Al Franken  said today.  Facebook, owner of the world’s largest social network with
more than 900 million users, has facial-recognition software
that suggest the names of friends that people can label, or
“tag,” in photographs. It introduced the feature, called Tag
Suggestions, in December 2010.  “Facebook may have created the world’s largest privately
held database of face prints without the explicit knowledge of
its users,” Franken, a Minnesota Democrat, said at a Senate
Judiciary subcommittee hearing.  “Facebook could still do more to explain to its users how
it uses facial recognition and to give them better choices about
whether or not to participate in Tag Suggestions,” Franken
said. “They could make clear to their users just how much data
they have, and how they will and will not use their large and
growing database of face prints.”  Facebook has built privacy controls into Tag Suggestions,
Rob Sherman, manager of privacy and public policy for  Menlo
Park ,  California-based Facebook , said at the hearing. The
technology doesn’t let users identify people who are random
strangers, and users can opt out of the photo-tagging feature,
Sherman said.  The company also has safeguards for personal information it
stores, including the templates used to power the tag
suggestions, he said.  FBI Pilot  Franken also expressed concern about a  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  facial-recognition pilot program that lets law
enforcement officers take a photo of a person and compare it to
a database of criminal suspects. The effort was started in
 Maryland ,  Michigan  and  Hawaii  and will soon expand to three more
states, Franken said.  “The FBI pilot could be abused to not only identify
protesters at political events and rallies, but to target them
for selective jailing and prosecution, stifling their First
Amendment rights,” Franken said, saying any law-enforcement
gains from the program could come at a high cost to civil
liberties.  The FBI is deploying the system slowly to make sure there’s
appropriate training and guidance in place, Jerome Pender, a
deputy assistant director at the FBI’s criminal justice
information-services division, said at the hearing.  More than 300 million photos were  uploaded  to Facebook on
an average day during the three months ended March 31, according
to the company. Facebook last month acquired Face.com, a facial-
recognition startup and one of its technology suppliers.  “Our federal privacy laws are almost totally unprepared to
deal with this technology,” Franken said. “Unlike what we have
in place for wiretaps and other surveillance devices, there is
no law regulating law enforcement use of facial recognition
technology.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  