-- FSOC Supports Overhaul to Trim Risk of Money-Market Runs
-- B y   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-07-18T21:57:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/fsoc-supports-overhaul-to-trim-risk-of-money-market-runs.html
The  Financial Stability Oversight 
Council said it supports “the implementation of structural
reforms to mitigate the run risk” in money-market funds.  “These reforms are intended to address the structural
features” in funds that caused a freezing of short-term credit
markets after the failure of the Reserve Primary Fund in 2008,
the FSOC said in a report to Congress released today.  The FSOC said it was focused on “structural
vulnerabilities” in the tri-party repo market and cited
“potential threats from the crisis in  Europe .”  The council, which includes Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , was created by the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul act
to help prevent another financial crisis. The regulators discuss
potential threats to U.S. financial stability, including the
 European debt crisis .  The council also voted unanimously today to designate eight
financial market utilities as systemically important and thus
subject to increased regulatory scrutiny.  The Treasury Department listed the entities as: ICE Clear
Credit LLC; Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc.; and the Clearing
House Payments Co. LLC.  Also listed by the Treasury were the Options Clearing
Corp.; CLS Bank International; the Depository Trust Co.; Fixed
Income Clearing Corp.; and National Securities Clearing Corp.  Previously Disclosed  The designations were previously disclosed by the
companies.  The annual report released today also mentions that
investigations into manipulation of the London interbank offered
rate, known as Libor, “underscore the importance of effective
control processes to help ensure the integrity of funding
markets.”  At the council’s open meeting today, U.S. Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , the panel’s chairman, said risk-
management failures at firms including JPMorgan Chase & Co.
prove the importance of the Dodd-Frank financial rules overhaul.  “We still have unfinished business,” Geithner said.
“Consider the failures of MF Global and Peregrine Financial,
the risk-management failures at JPMorgan, the abuses surrounding
Libor, or the financial threats from Europe.”  The council also includes the chairmen of the Securities
and Exchange Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  