-- Garmin, Apple, Dental Brasseler: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-07-18T11:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/garmin-apple-dental-brasseler-intellectual-property.html
Garmin Ltd. (GRMN) , a maker of navigation
devices using Global Positioning System technology, must pay a
New York-based patent holder $500,000 in damages for patent
infringement.  Ambato Media LLC sued Garmin in federal court in Marshall,
 Texas , in August 2009, claiming the Garmin International unit of
the Schaffhausen, Switzerland-based company infringed patent
5,432,542. That patent, issued in July 1995, covers television
receiver location identification.  Garmin products that were able to receive and display
traffic, weather and points-of-interest identification infringed
that patent, Ambato said.  The jury agreed, finding that Garmin infringed three claims
in the patent, and awarded Ambato $500,000.  Garmin didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail seeking
comment on the verdict.  The case is Ambato Media LLC v. Clarion Co., 09-cv-00242,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  Apple’s Jobs Still Named as Inventor on New Patents  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  founder  Steve Jobs , who died in October,
continues to be listed as an inventor on newly issued patents,
according to the database of the U.S. Patent and  Trademark
Office .  The most recent Jobs patent is D662,935, which covers the
design for a keyboard. That patent was issued July 3.  Jobs is a named inventor on 42 U.S. patents issued since he
died Oct. 5 of pancreatic cancer. A total of 359 issued patents
name him as an inventor. The patents are assigned to Cupertino,
California-based Apple.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Dental Brasseler Sues Brasseler USA for Trademark Infringement  Dental Brasseler GmbH of Lemgo,  Germany , sued a competitor
for trademark infringement.  The lawsuit, filed July 16 in federal court in  Delaware ,
accuses Brasseler USA Inc. of infringing a “blue spiral”
design trademark used for specialty dental tools.  The German company said the defendant was once a unit and
continued to use the trademark without authorization after it
became a separate entity in 2008. The exclusive U.S. distributor
of Brasseler dental tools is Komet USA LLC of  Rock Hill ,  South
Carolina , according to the complaint.  Dental Brasseler said customers may think that it provides
the products with the design trademark sold by Brasseler USA.  In addition to a court order permanently barring Brasseler
USA from using the mark, Dental Brasseler asked for the
destruction of all infringing products and promotional
materials, together with money damages, attorney fees and
litigation costs.  Dental Brasseler asked that the damages comprise three
times the profits Brasseler USA derived from its alleged
infringement.  Brasseler USA, based in Savannah,  Georgia , didn’t respond
immediately to an e-mailed request for comment on the lawsuit.  Dental Brasseler is represented by  Steven L. Caponi ,
 Laurence S. Shtasel  and  Susan B. Flohr  of Philadelphia’s Blank
Rome LLP.  The case is Gebr. Brasseler GmbH v. Brasseler USA Inc., 12-
cv-00899, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Ex-Olympic Athlete Told Use of Rings to Promote Gym Is Barred  A gym owner who was a member of the U.K.’s 2004 Olympic
team discovered his use of the Olympic rings in promotions for
his business was barred, the U.K.’s Kent Online news website
 reported .  Karl Grant, who competed on the weightlifting team, said he
hadn’t seen any kind of trademark notice attached to images of
the rings, and that other local businesses are also at risk of
being accused of infringement because of a lack of information
about permitted uses, Kent Online reported.  Grant said he spent about 2,000 pounds ($3,128) on banners,
leaflets and other media in his promotion featuring the Olympic
rings, according to Kent Online.  Red Bull  Successfully Challenges Sun Mark’s ‘Bullet’ Trademark  Red Bull GmbH, maker of the energy drink of the same name,
won a trademark dispute in  London , the U.K.’s Independent
newspaper reported.  The Austrian company had challenged  Sun Mark Ltd. ’s  Bullet 
brand energy drink and its associated ad slogan, “no bull in
this can,” according to the Independent.  The dispute was heard in the  High Court  of Justice’s
Chancery division, where the judge said the name “Bullet”
infringed Red Bull’s “Bullit” mark, and that the “no bull”
slogan was an attempt to trade on the fame of the Red Bull
product, the newspaper reported.  Raminder Ranger, founder of Sun Mark’s parent company Sea
Air & Land Forwarding, had claimed Red Bull used “bully-boy”
tactics” against his product, according to the newspaper.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Romney Campaign’s Video Using  Al Green  Song Removed From YouTube  Mitt Romney ’s presidential campaign had one of its videos
removed from Google Inc.’s YouTube video-sharing site following
a copyright-infringement complaint from BMG Rights Management,
the Washington Post  reported .  The video to which BMG objected made use of Al Green’s 1972
hit song, “Let’s Stay Together,” according to the Post.  A Romney spokesman told the Post that the campaign’s use of
the song fell into copyright law’s “fair use” provision.  The video was removed because of a complaint made under the
Digital Millennium Copyright Act, and the campaign can file a
counter-notification to YouTube in an effort to get the video
put back online, according to the Post.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  