-- GE Turbines Help Greenko Drive Wind Power Cost Below Coal
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-07-18T12:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/ge-turbines-help-greenko-drive-wind-power-cost-below-coal.html
The cost of wind power has dropped
below the price of coal-fired energy in parts of  India  for the
first time as improved turbine technology and rising fossil-fuel
prices boost its competitiveness,  Greenko Group Plc (GKO)  said.  “Today we’re able to supply energy below the cost of
conventional power,” said Mahesh Kolli, president of Greenko,
which is building wind projects with  General Electric Co. (GE)  in
India. “That’s the key development for this year.”  The cost of wind has closed in on coal thanks to more
advanced turbines, which can produce more electricity from lower
wind speeds. The shift means new wind farms in India will be
able to survive without state subsidies, potentially attracting
investors to a country where 57 percent of installed capacity is
coal-based and 31 percent renewable, including hydropower.  Greenko began operating its first wind project in Ratnagiri
in Maharashtra state this year using 1.6-megawatt GE turbines
designed for low winds. That farm is “achieving efficiencies
never before seen in India,” with a 30 percent plant load
factor, Kolli said today by telephone. That’s a measure of a
site’s actual generation compared with its theoretical capacity.  The company, based on the  Isle of Man , has signed
agreements for more than 1,000 megawatts of wind capacity and a
three-year contract to buy at least 450 megawatts of GE
turbines. State power distributors in places such as Karnataka,
Rajasthan, Maharashtra and  Andhra Pradesh  have a “market
incentive to buy wind power because we’re cheaper,” Kolli said.  Generation Cost  The executive didn’t specify the cost of generation, which
varies according to state. Estimates from Bloomberg New Energy
Finance show the most efficient wind projects in India run at a
similar cost to new coal-fed plants. The best projects have a
levelized cost of energy, which allows for comparison between
different fuel sources, of 2.7 rupees (5 cents) to 4.4 rupees a
kilowatt-hour, compared with coal’s 1.9 to 4.8 rupees, Ashish Sethia, an analyst at London-based BNEF, said in a July 3 note.  The economics of Indian wind developments may lure
investors away from markets such as the U.S., where the end of a
tax break for wind-power utilities could cause a 75 percent
slump in new installations next year, according to BTM Consult,
a unit of  Navigant Consulting Inc. (NCI)  Kolli said India’s decision
to suspend a wind subsidy in April won’t affect investments.  Subsidy Loss  The generation-based incentive, which paid wind farms a
500-rupee subsidy for every megawatt-hour of electricity fed
into the grid, is only the “icing on the cake,” he said. Its
loss won’t diminish the 19 percent return on wind projects that
Greenko assumes in its 15-year power sale agreements, he said.  The current cost to build wind farms in India is about
$1.25 million a megawatt, according to Kolli. While that price
has largely held steady, the company is buying turbines that are
20 percent more efficient than in the past, he said.  Greenko already has more than 200 megawatts of operating
hydropower capacity in the country. Hydro and wind projects in
India benefit from an abundance of renewable sources of energy,
unlike coal and gas-fired generation which has been hurt by fuel
supply shortages.  Greenko reported a 6.5 percent increase in net income to
9.5 million euros ($11.6 million) for the financial year through
March. Its shares fell 0.4 percent to 107 pence as of 12:28 p.m.
in  London  today, extending their decline this year to 11
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  