-- Germany to Pass Law on Circumcision to Counter Judges’ Ruling
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-07-18T14:33:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/germany-to-pass-law-on-circumcision-to-counter-judges-ruling.html
German legislators will pass a law
this year permitting the circumcision of boys in response to
global protests by religious groups reacting to a district court
ruling that the practice amounts to bodily harm.  Social Democrat  Burkhard Lischka , who sits on
parliament’s legal-affairs committee, said his opposition party
and the environmental Greens reached agreement with the
governing coalition to seek draft legislation, probably by
October. He said a “broad majority” will approve a resolution
in the lower house, or Bundestag, tomorrow.  “You have two world religions that view the circumcision
of boys as a constitutive path to join a community of faith,”
Lischka said today in a phone interview in Berlin.  Jewish, Muslim and Christian organizations this month
decried a May 7 Cologne court decision that circumcising boys
constitutes battery even if parents consent to it, creating
legal uncertainty and the prospect that doctors could be
committing a crime by performing the procedure.  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  warned party colleagues this week that  Germany 
risks being branded a “nation of buffoons” if it becomes the
only country to prohibit the practice,   Bild  newspaper reported.  Lischka said the legal situation was “somewhat
complicated” by balancing the constitutional right of bodily
integrity with freedom of religion. The resolution language will
permit circumcision of boys by a trained professional in
situations that avoid inflicting “unnecessary pain.”  Justice Ministry spokeswoman Mareke Aden said today that a
draft law is planned by the fall and that the issue “can’t be
pushed off” amid global scrutiny.  Vacations Interrupted  Bundestag lawmakers are interrupting their vacations to
attend an emergency session tomorrow to approve as much as 100
billion euros ($123 billion) in bailout aid for  Spain . The
legislative process on circumcision will probably begin in late
September after parliament reconvenes on Sept. 10.  European rabbis held a three-day emergency meeting last
week to address the ruling, which Pinchas Goldschmidt, chief of
the Conference of European Rabbis, called “a frontal attack on
Jewish life in  Europe .” An Israeli parliamentary committee July
9 denounced the ruling after it met with Andreas Michaelis, the
German ambassador to  Israel .  The controversy began in November 2010, when a Muslim
couple in Cologne asked a doctor to circumcise their 4-year-old
son. The doctor used a local anesthetic and treated the wound
with four stitches. Two days later, the mother rushed the son to
the hospital after the wound began bleeding; the hospital
contacted the police, leading to bodily harm charges.  While the Cologne court acquitted the doctor, it ruled male
circumcision -- even when done properly by a doctor with the
permission of the parents -- should be considered bodily harm if
carried out on a boy unable to give his consent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  