-- Former-ECB Economist Stark Says Euro Area Needs to Shrink
-- B y   D a v i d   G o o d m a n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-07-18T15:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/german-two-year-note-yield-below-zero-a-ninth-day-before-auction.html
German bunds rose, with two- and
five-year yields dropping to records, after an auction of
securities due in 2014 drew a negative yield for the first time
as investors sought a haven from the region’s financial turmoil.  Two-year notes  advanced for the fifth time in six days
after  Germany  allotted 4.17 billion euros ($5.1 billion) of the
debt at an average rate of minus 0.06 percent at today’s sale.
Finland’s two-year yields fell below zero for the first time,
while rates on 10-year French and Austrian securities also
tumbled to records. Spanish bonds dropped after a report showed
bad loans at the country’s banks jumped to an 18-year-high.  “Everybody’s still looking for a safe haven and Germany is
under the spotlight,” said Christian Reicherter, an analyst at
DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “We’ve also seen increasing demand in
other core European countries as well. There’s no good news
regarding the debt crisis.”  The German two-year yield dropped one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to minus 0.061 percent at 4:46 p.m.  London 
time after reaching minus 0.074 percent, the lowest since
Bloomberg began tracking the securities in 1990. The zero
percent note due in June 2014 gained 0.025, or 25 euro cents per
1,000-euro face amount, to 100.115.  A negative yield means investors who hold the existing
notes to maturity will receive less than they paid to buy them.
They would lose about 1,150 euros per 1 million-euro face-value
if they hold the existing securities until they mature.  The  five-year rate  dropped as much as four basis points to
an all-time low of 0.254 percent, and the 10-year yield declined
three basis points to 1.2 percent.  Work Harder  German debt returned 12 percent over the past year through
yesterday as the region’s debt crisis worsened, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. French and Finnish securities both
gained 11 percent.  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said the “European
project” may be in jeopardy unless policy makers work harder.  “We haven’t yet shaped the European project in a way that
we can be sure that everything will work, will turn out well,”
Merkel said in an interview with her Christian Democratic Union
party’s website posted today.  Europe ’s leaders need to move toward a more complete
monetary union if “substantial” spillover effects for the
global economy are to be avoided, the  International Monetary
Fund  said in a staff report issued today.  Finland’s  two-year yield  fell as much as three basis points
to minus 0.008 percent. Austria’s two-year yield slipped below
zero for the first time yesterday, before climbing one basis
point today to 0.06 percent.  Deposit Rate  Investors have sought returns in some of Europe’s stronger
economies since the  European Central Bank  cut its deposit rate
to zero this month in an attempt to stimulate credit supply and
lending by discouraging banks from parking cash. The ECB lowered
its main refinancing rate to a  record  0.75 percent on July 5,
and President  Mario Draghi  signaled on July 9 that policy makers
may be open to another interest-rate cut.  “It’s just doom and gloom,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-
income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “The
ECB’s zero deposit rate is forcing people up the curve into
paper assets, and that’s feeding through everywhere at the
moment.” A yield curve is a graph that charts the rates of
bonds of a similar type with different maturities.  French Notes  French  two-year notes  dropped for a second day before the
government sells securities due in 2015 and 2016 tomorrow. The
nation is also due to auction five-year notes and inflation-
linked bonds due between 2019 and 2040.  The two-year yield rose two basis points to 0.12 percent.
Ten-year yields climbed one basis point to 2.1 percent.  Bank of  New York  Mellon Corp., the world’s largest custody
bank, is considering imposing a charge for money left by clients
in Europe after the ECB’s deposit rate cut, Todd Gibbons, the
bank’s chief financial officer, said in a telephone interview.  Spanish two-year notes fell for a third day as central bank
data showed bad debts as a percentage of total lending climbed
to 8.95 percent in May from 8.72 percent the previous month.  Lending and deposits in the banking system both declined,
the regulator said.  The Spanish two-year yield jumped 29 basis points to 5.01
percent, and 10-year rates rose 13 basis points to 6.96 percent.  Volatility in Spanish government debt was the highest in
the euro area today, followed by Belgium and Ireland, according
to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-and 10-year
securities, and credit default swaps.  Spain  is due to sell as much as 3 billion euros of debt due
in two to seven years tomorrow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Goodman  in London at 
 dgoodman28@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  