-- Glencore Debt Seen Punished Without Xstrata
-- B y   S t e p h e n   M o r r i s   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-07-18T13:38:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/glencore-debt-seen-punished-without-xstrata-corporate-finance.html
Glencore International Plc (GLEN)  faces an
expensive dilemma: increase its $27 billion merger offer for
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) , or let it fail and risk a  credit-rating  downgrade
and higher borrowing costs.  The world’s largest commodity trader must raise its all-
stock offer to appease Xstrata shareholders or potentially be
cut to the cusp of junk by rating companies. The combined
business would have a net debt-to-equity ratio of 42 percent at
year-end, compared with 96 percent for Glencore if it abandons
the deal, BMO Capital Markets estimates, a level unsustainable
for the current Baa2 rating.  Glencore, which has been adding debt after it bought
Viterra Inc. and is seeking $1.5 billion of loans to back the
proposed merger, wants to reduce its leverage by combining with
Xstrata, whose net debt-to-equity ratio was  18 percent  at the
end of 2011. Its cashless bid for the mining company was
jeopardized when Xstrata’s second-largest shareholder, Qatar
Holding LLC, asked the Swiss firm to raise its offer last month.  Moody’s Investors Service “have said Glencore may be
downgraded if the deal falls through,” said Barbora Matouskova,
a credit strategist at Societe Generale SA in  London . “If
they’re downgraded they will have to pay up. They will pay more
on their existing bonds with step-up language as well as for new
bond issues, as they will be a riskier company.”  Sweetened Terms  Glencore had to sweeten terms on about $2.47 billion of
debt securities sold this year to entice investors that were
losing confidence the deal would succeed. The company agreed to
pay an extra half percentage point on the coupon if the deal
doesn’t go ahead before the first payment, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It now faces $83 million in extra
interest on those  bonds  over the next decade.  Charles Watenphul, a spokesman for Baar, Switzerland-based
Glencore, and Alison Flynn, a spokeswoman for Xstrata in London,
declined to comment.  Glencore is seeking to gain control of Xstrata’s copper,
coal and zinc operations to establish the fourth-biggest mining
company behind  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , Vale SA and  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ,
reducing its own debt burden in the process.  Qatar’s sovereign wealth fund, which has a stake of about
11 percent in Xstrata, asked the company on June 26 to raise its
bid to 3.25 of its shares for each one in Xstrata from 2.8 in
February. Shareholders Knight Vinke Asset Management LLC,
 Standard Life Plc (SL/)  and Schroders Plc have also called for
sweetened terms, and the date shareholders will vote on the
proposed merger has been pushed back to Sept. 7 from this month.  Xstrata fell 7 pence to 835 pence at 1:47 p.m. in London,
below the value of the existing bid of 881 pence. Glencore
traded 0.7 percent down at 314.8 pence, extending its year-to-
date  decline  to 20 percent.  Blocking Vote  Only 16.48 percent of shareholders’ votes are required to
block the so-called “merger of equals” as U.K. takeover rules
prevent Glencore from voting its 34 percent stake in its target.  Glencore has a market value of $34 billion, Bloomberg data
show. It had negative free  cash flow  in 2011 of $2.6 billion.
Free cash is money that can be used to reward shareholders with
dividends and buybacks, pay down debt, and reinvest in the
company.  The company trades commodities such as coal and oil and
owns mines, factories and warehouses. Glencore, which changed
its name after management bought out former U.S. fugitive  Marc Rich  in 1994, undertook a $10 billion initial public offering in
May 2011. Rich, who fled to  Switzerland  after being indicted on
65 counts including fraud, racketeering and tax evasion, was
pardoned by President  Bill Clinton  in January 2001, hours before
he left office.  Debt Ratings  Moody’s said in March it may cut Glencore’s credit rating
by one step to Baa3 if the transaction fails. Moody’s cited
Glencore’s leverage as a reason for cutting its credit outlook
following its C$6.1 billion ($6 billion)  acquisition  of Viterra
Inc. in March.  Standard & Poor’s  estimated the same month that
this transaction would increase Glencore’s net debt by a
“significant” $4.3 billion. S&P rates the company BBB,
equivalent to the Moody’s rating.  High-yield, high-risk, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3
at Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Glencore is also spending $2.2 billion in cash to increase
its stake in Ust-Kamenogorsk, Kazakhstan-based metals producer
TOO Kazzinc to 93 percent from 50.7 percent, it said last year,
as part of a three-year $5 billion capital spending program.  ‘Negative Pressure’  “Moody’s cautions that under a scenario where the merger
with Xstrata does not progress, while the Viterra acquisition
moves forward as announced, Glencore’s ratings would be subject
to negative pressure,” the company said on March 21. “In such
a scenario, therefore, Moody’s would consider a downgrade,
likely be limited to one notch.”  The company is offering to pay an initial interest of 150
basis points more than the London interbank offered rate on the
loan to finance the Viterra purchase, people with knowledge of
the matter said in May. It is expected to close this month.  Glencore said July 16 that approval from  China ’s Ministry
of Commerce for the Viterra acquisition was no longer expected
by the end of this month. It plans to provide an update on the
expected completion date “in due course,” it said.  Glencore also said it signed a $3.1 billion loan backing
the proposed merger with Xstrata, scaling back from the $6
billion originally sought, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. It received commitments for about $11 billion in
syndication from 31 banks, the company said.  Xstrata’s Appeal  Glencore has a “unique pipeline of production growth from
low-risk, low-cost and high-grade brownfield operations,” Chief
Executive Officer Ivan Glasenberg said in a May presentation on
the company’s website. A total of 80 percent of its expansion
spending is due to take place before 2014, the company said in a
separate presentation last month.  “More important than the credit rating may be that without
Xstrata the growth profile may have to slow,”  Tony Robson , co-
head of metals and mining research at Toronto, Canada-based BMO,
said in a telephone interview. “Commodity prices are low and
not helping Glencore’s need to fund capex. Glencore needs
Xstrata more than Xstrata needs Glencore, mainly for the
strength of Xstrata’s balance sheet,” he said.  Xstrata had  long-term debt  of $8.8 billion at the end of
2011, down from $16.7 billion in 2008, and a market
capitalization of  $39 billion , Bloomberg data show. The Zug,
Switzerland-based miner had free cash flow of about $6.96
billion last year, a 7 percent increase from full-year 2010, it
said in its annual results.  Note Sale  One project Glencore would struggle to finance if the deal
collapses is a $1.5 billion expansion at its majority-owned
Mopani Copper Mines in Zambia, BMO’s Robson said. Glencore is
planning an upgrade to the smelter at Mopani and a new shaft
allowing it to access 115 million metric tons of copper ore.  Glencore most recently sold 450 million Swiss francs ($461
million) of 2.625 percent notes due 2018. Terms of the bonds,
issued on June 19, require the  interest rate  to be increased 50
basis points if the Xstrata deal is not completed before
December 2013, and by a further 125 basis points if the rating
firms strip the company of its investment-grade ranking,
Bloomberg data show. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The bonds rose to 102.15 centimes on the franc from an
issue price of 100.56 centimes, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices
show.  Headline Risk  “There’s a headline risk associated with the credit
downgrade, but in terms of the day-to-day business I could see
where potentially financing costs might go up modestly, but it
won’t be too detrimental to the business,”  Jeff Largey , a
mining analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in London, said in a
telephone interview.  The 50 basis-point step-up also applies to Glencore’s 1.25
billion euros of 4.125 percent bonds due 2018 and 300 million
pounds of 5.5 percent notes due 2022, the data show.  The merger will be “very materially accruing to Glencore,
mainly through the deleveraging of its balance sheet and the
control of Xstrata’s cash-flows once its ownership goes beyond
50 percent,” Exane BNP Paribas analysts led by Sylvain Brunet
wrote in a  July 13 report . If the deal collapses “we see some
downside risk in Glencore shares if no deleveraging happens and
a debt downgrade takes place.”  Spreads on Glencore’s bonds widened nine basis points to
238 basis points since Feb. 6, compared with a 24 basis-point
decline for all bonds in the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Euro
Basic Industry index, which ended July 17 at 149.  Swaps Converge  Credit-default swaps insuring Glencore’s debt trade at
levels implying a junk rating of Ba1, two steps below its
current ranking, according to Moody’s Analytics. The swaps have
fallen 89 basis points to 324 basis points since June 14 and are
converging with contracts on Xstrata, signaling that investors
remain confident the merger will be concluded. Xstrata swaps
have declined 35 basis points to 217 basis points, Bloomberg
prices show.  The swaps contracts typically rise as investor confidence
deteriorates and fall as it improves. Credit-default swaps pay
the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals 1,000 euros annually on a contract protecting 10 million
euros of debt.  Analysts at Exane BNP Paribas and BMO Capital Markets also
predict a one-step  rating  downgrade if Glencore abandons its
bid, echoing Moody’s concerns.  “One of the appeals of the deal is that Glencore will
benefit from absorbing Xstrata’s balance sheet,” Macquarie’s
Largey said. “Glencore has more to gain if they get this deal
done, than what they’d gain from pulling it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Morris in London at 
 smorris39@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net . 