-- Global Growth Concern Triggers Discount to S&P: Israel Overnight
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2012-07-18T14:22:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/global-growth-concern-triggers-discount-to-s-p-israel-overnight.html
Israeli stocks fell in  New York  to
trade at the biggest discount to the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
companies in a year on concern the global slowdown will cut
sales at companies from  Retalix Ltd. (RTLX)  to  Magic Software
Enterprises Ltd. (MGIC)   The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the most-traded
Israeli companies in New York dropped yesterday to the lowest
level this year. The retreat pushed valuations to 12.2 times
estimated earnings, the  least relative  to the average multiple
for the largest U.S. companies since February 2011. Magic
Software, a business software developer, slumped to a nine-month
low and Retalix, the maker of supermarket software, fell the
most in three weeks.  Israeli companies listed in the U.S. rely on Europe and
 North America  for at least 56 percent of their average revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that financial strains
have increased as  unemployment  in the U.S. rose from its April
low, while joblessness in the  euro region  has climbed to the
highest level on record. The Fed didn’t highlight specific
policy actions to boost growth.  “Israeli companies have been buffeted by the global
situation,” Stephen Schoenfeld, founder of Bluestar Global
Investors LLC, a financial information company focused on Israel
and the  Middle East , said by phone from New York. “There is
general disappointment based on unrealistic expectations of the
Fed chairman’s testimony.”  TA-25 Rises  Israel’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  slipped 0.2 percent to
1,057.42 at the close in Tel Aviv today. The gauge had retreated
2.4 percent this year through yesterday, compared with a 5.2
percent drop for the Bloomberg Israel-U.S. index.  Companies on the  S&P 500 Index , which has gained 0.1
percent in July, trade at an average valuation of 13.1 times
earnings. Israeli companies listed in the U.S. had a  higher 
price to estimated earnings ratio than the S&P 500 members until
as recently as July 5 and last traded at a larger discount in
February 2011.  Bernanke, who appeared before the Senate Banking Committee
yesterday and is scheduled to speak before the House Financial
Services Committee today, said that economic activity seems to
have decelerated in the first half of the year. Progress in
reducing unemployment is likely to be “frustratingly slow” he
said, reiterating the central bank is prepared to take further
action.  North America, Europe  Unemployment in the U.S. has increased from a three-year
low of 8.1 percent in April to 8.2 percent. Joblessness in the
 euro area  has climbed to 11.1 percent, the highest level since
the 17-nation common currency was established. The 56 percent
average revenue share of members of the Bloomberg Israel-U.S.
equity index was compiled based on data available from companies
reporting sales figures separately for North America and Europe.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China’s labor situation will become
more “severe,” underscoring concern that the weakest economic
growth since 2009 will lead to increasing job losses.  “There’s a global slowdown in several sectors,”  Jay
Srivatsa , managing director of equity research at Chardan
Capital Markets LLC said by phone from New York yesterday.
“Weakness, if it is just related to Europe, wouldn’t matter so
much but China is slowing down and U.S. has also pretty much
reached a problem point.”  Magic Software, based in Or Yehuda, Israel, fell 6.1
percent to $4.8, the lowest since Oct. 27. Its  Tel Aviv shares 
slid 4.8 percent to 19.15 shekels, or the equivalent of $4.77,
today.  Retalix, based in Ra’anana, Israel, dropped 2.1 percent to
$20.56, the least since July 2. Its Tel Aviv shares declined
0.1 percent to 81.80 shekels, or $20.38, today. The company,
which will report earnings on Aug. 2, has beaten sales estimates
in all of the last five quarters.  MS Research  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) , the world’s largest
maker of generic drugs, climbed 2.9 percent to $42.34, the
highest level since May 8. The Tel Aviv shares gained 1.9
percent to 168.2 shekels, or $41.90, today.  The most-commonly prescribed multiple sclerosis drugs,
including those made by  Biogen Idec Inc. (BIIB) ,  Bayer AG (BAYN)  and Merck
KGaA, failed to slow disability progression in a long-term study
raising new questions on whether the treatments can achieve that
goal.  Researchers compared historical outcomes for MS patients in
British Columbia to assess the use of interferon beta drugs. The
results, published yesterday after the market closed in the
Journal of the  American Medical Association , found the medicines
didn’t delay progress of the patients’ disability.  Teva’s Copaxone, another older MS therapy, wasn’t evaluated
in this study.  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to Switzerland’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
China. The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in New York at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  