-- GM’s Cadillac to Debut Ads During Olympics to Fight BMW
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/gm-s-cadillac-to-debut-ads-during-olympics-to-fight-bmw.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , which begins
selling the new Cadillac ATS compact car in August, will
introduce a television ad campaign during the Olympics next
week, marking the start of its battle against the BMW 3 Series.  The campaign, which will include more than 40 ads and
online videos and was filmed in  Monaco , Morocco,  China  and
Chile, will help GM set the tone for its new compact sedan as
the brand tries to attract entry-level luxury customers and
driving enthusiasts. GM wants to sell more than 50,000 of the
vehicle annually,  Don Butler , Cadillac vice president for
marketing, said yesterday in an interview.  “Because of what it means for the brand, it’s really,
really important,” Butler said of the ads. “We need to change
the basis of the conversation around Cadillac” to “show that
we can be vibrant and relevant to a younger audience.”  Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson wants to make Cadillac
and Chevrolet the Detroit-based automaker’s two global brands.
He’s pushing Cadillac to expand luxury sales and for the brand
to grow in the U.S. and China to help offset declining high-
margin truck sales. Cadillac sales in the U.S. slid 17 percent
in first half of the year.  Butler declined to say how much GM is spending on the
campaign for the ATS, Cadillac’s first compact car in about 25
years.  “The biggest challenge for Cadillac remains the hurdle to
convince the import buyers that they should look at the brand,”
 Jesse Toprak , an industry analyst with TrueCar.com, said in a
telephone interview.  Mercedes, BMW  Cadillac’s first-half U.S. sales totaled 62,812 cars and
trucks as deliveries declined with the phaseout of the STS and
DTS sedans to make way for the XTS large sedan during the second
quarter.  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz led sellers of  luxury vehicles 
in the market during the period with 128,595 followed by
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s BMW brand at 126,504. BMW beat
Mercedes last year by 2,715 deliveries. The results don’t
include Daimler’s Sprinter vans and Smart cars and BMW’s Mini
brand, which aren’t luxury vehicles.  “It’s an absolute challenge,” Butler said. “We are the
spirited challenger.” The executive was interviewed in
Dawsonville, Georgia, near Atlanta.  Cadillac’s advertising must establish an image for the ATS
and show how it’s different than the CTS mid-sized sedan,
 Rebecca Lindland , an industry analyst with IHS Automotive, said
in a telephone interview.  ATS Challenge  The challenge for ATS is “nobody knows what that is,” she
said. “It is an incredibly challenging segment in that you’re
talking about people who are generally making their foray into
luxury and so they’re very image conscious.”  IHS Automotive has estimated that Cadillac will sell 15,000
of the ATS this year and 60,000 next year, including a coupe
version that it expects in 2013.  The new campaign, which will debut during the Olympics’
opening ceremony on July 27 on  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC, includes
spots that showcase the car in adventures on the deserts of
 Morocco  and the streets of Monaco. The car drives through the
Guoliang Tunnel in China and deals with the high winds in
Patagonia.  While the spots begin with the Olympics, the bulk of the ad
spending will occur in September as the vehicle becomes
available for customers in dealer showrooms, Butler said.  “We have to come big,” he said of the ads. “We can’t be
passive, we can’t just hope that people find us. We’ve got to be
big and bold and make a statement -- almost to the point of
being brash but not brash, a little bit of swagger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Dawsonville,  Georgia  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  