-- Goldman Sachs’s Blankfein Says Libor Scandal Undermines Trust
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-07-18T19:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/goldman-sachs-s-blankfein-says-libor-scandal-undermines-trust.html
Allegations of interest-rate rigging
by global banks are hurting the financial system by undermining
trust, said Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive
officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)   “The biggest impact is once more undermining the integrity
of the system that has already been undermined so
substantially,” Blankfein, 57, said today at a lunch held by
the  Economic Club of Washington , where he was interviewed by
 Carlyle Group LP (CG)  co-CEO  David Rubenstein . “There was this huge
hole to dig out of in terms of getting trust back and now it’s
just that much deeper.”  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, isn’t
among the banks serving on panels that set the London interbank
offered rate, or Libor. Barclays Plc’s chairman, CEO and chief
operating officer all said they would step down after that bank
agreed to pay 290 million pounds ($454 million) for manipulating
Libor. Other banks remain under investigation.  Blankfein, whose firm reaped 58 percent of first-half
revenue from trading, said financial markets are damaged by a
lack of trust.  “Uncertainty is something that puts a burden on things --
it makes spreads wider, harder to transact,” Blankfein said.
“But also a lack of trust is certainly at least a cousin of
that.”  Goldman Sachs said yesterday it plans to cut $500 million
of expenses this year, mostly from compensation, after reporting
the lowest first-half revenue and earnings since 2005.
Blankfein, who has run the company for six years, said last
month that business is suffering a temporary slump in reaction
to the 2008 financial crisis.  Natural Optimist  “Sentiment is very bad, and for real reasons,” Blankfein
said today. “But by and large the world advances and gets
better most of the time,” he said, adding that he is optimistic
partly because it’s his personality and partly because history
shows things eventually improve.  His own firm’s business units are affected by global growth
and  market sentiment , he said, adding that “you could not find
a part of the cycle where all those activities would be at a
lower ebb” than today.  “There are certain things that are cyclical which we don’t
want to overreact to,” he said. Still, “cycles can be severe,
and last a long time.”  Blankfein, in an  opinion piece  published today on
Politico.com, called on U.S. politicians to agree on a long-term
deficit-reduction plan modeled on recommendations by former
Republican Senator  Alan Simpson  and  Erskine Bowles , chief of
staff under former President  Bill Clinton .  Folly March  “I wrote a note earlier today arguing militantly for
moderation and compromise because this is really a march of
folly to have things go to extremes,” Blankfein said at the
lunch. “I would capitulate on either side rather than have
these things go on.”  Blankfein was set to visit the White House today to meet
with Jack Lew, President  Barack Obama ’s chief of staff,
according to an administration official. Obama isn’t scheduled
to meet with him.  While Blankfein said he’s “worried” about  Europe  and sees
a “not insignificant possibility that there could be an
unraveling” of the euro currency bloc, he doesn’t expect that
to happen. He said he finds it easier to forecast  emerging
markets  10 years into the future than 10 months, as short-term
setbacks could interrupt what he perceives to be a positive
trend for those faster-growing countries.  Job Applications  Goldman Sachs had 12 percent more applicants for jobs this
year than a year earlier and more than 80 percent accepted
offers. He said that even  Harvard University , where Blankfein
attended college and law school, would be pleased to have a
yield above 80 percent.  Goldman Sachs has learned it has to make more of an effort
to help the public understand its business, Blankfein said. When
Rubenstein asked if he has any aspiration to go into government
like many of his predecessors, Blankfein quipped: “I have
aspirations to be desired.”  He said he wants his legacy at Goldman Sachs to be about
leading the firm through strong years as well as in the
aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis.  Blankfein wants to “make sure that we prove ourselves
resilient and come out as a firm stronger on the other side
financially and in terms of the contributions we make and
frankly with an enhanced reputation with the general public,”
he said.  About 460 people attended the lunch at the 25-year-old
Economic Club of  Washington , which has about 600 members.
Blankfein’s discussion today follows appearances at the St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum, the Chicago Club and on
 MSNBC  last month. His public appearances have increased since
the firm hired Richard L. “Jake” Siewert Jr., a former aide to
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , as global head of
communications in March.  In the past “we were a little mysterious and that was a
big problem,” Blankfein said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Christine Harper  in  New York  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Steve Dickson at 
 sdickson1@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  