-- Goldman CEO Blankfein Said to Meet With Obama Adviser Lew
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-18T19:55:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/goldman-ceo-blankfein-said-to-meet-with-obama-adviser-lew.html
The White House opened the doors to
Wall Street today with a visit from  Lloyd Blankfein , the chief
executive officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , who was in the
capital to speak at the Economic Club of Washington.  Blankfein was to meet with Jack Lew, President Barack Obama’s chief of staff, according to an administration official.
Obama isn’t scheduled to see the Goldman chief.  The president has had an icy relationship with Wall Street
during his time in office as he’s pushed for greater regulation
of the financial industry. He’s recently been criticized in the
financial community for what some see as a vilification of the
industry as he campaigns against Republican presidential
candidate Mitt Romney, the co-founder of Boston-based private
equity firm Bain Capital LLC.  Employees of Goldman Sachs are the biggest single source of
donations directly to the Romney presidential campaign and are
the top givers to the joint fundraising committee he has set up
with the Republican Party.  Blankfein, 57, hasn’t donated to either Romney or Obama,
according to data compiled by the Center for Responsive Politics
in Washington.  The last time Blankfein visited the White House was on Oct.
12 for a meeting with  Valerie Jarrett , a senior adviser to Obama
who is also an administration liaison to the business community.
Before today, visitor logs show he had been to 1600 Pennsylvania
Ave. 15 times, six of those times to meet with the president.  During the lunch at the Economic Club, Blankfein was
interviewed by  Carlyle Group LP (CG) ’s co-CEO David Rubenstein, who
asked him whether he had any aspiration to go into government
like many of his predecessors. Former Goldman executives  Hank Paulson  and  Robert Rubin  both served as Treasury secretaries.  “I have aspirations to be desired,” Blankfein quipped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  