-- Greece Is Still Working on Budget After Leaders’ Athens Meeting
-- B y   C h r i s t o s   Z i o t i s   a n d   E l e n i   C h r e p a
-- 2012-07-18T12:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/greece-is-still-working-on-budget-after-leaders-athens-meeting.html
Greece ’s coalition government is
still working on completing a 11.5 billion-euro ($14 billion)
package of measures for the next two years to convince
international creditors to disburse funds and avoid a halt in
payments after political leaders met in Athens.  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras and his two coalition
partners, Pasok party leader  Evangelos Venizelos  and Democratic
Left leader Fotis Kouvelis, and Finance Minister Yannis Stournaras met at Samaras’s office to decide on the cuts before
the so-called troika of creditors return next week.  While leaders decided on the “general directions” for the
measures, there is still a “road ahead” before the package is
completed, Stournaras told reporters after the meeting.  About 8 billion euros of cuts and savings have been found
so far out of the total, a finance ministry official told
reporters after the meeting. The government is trying to avoid
new budget measures for this year, due to a deeper-than-forecast
recession, said the official, who asked not to be identified.  The European Commission, the  European Central Bank  and the
 International Monetary Fund , which make up the troika, have
demanded the two-year package as a condition before any further
funds can be disbursed under the two aid packages totaling 240
billion euros that have been granted to the country.  Greece will seek a bridge loan to cover its needs until
September before beginning talks with creditors on extending the
international bailout, a Finance Ministry official said
yesterday. The official, who asked not to be identified, told
reporters in Athens that it was more important for the cuts to
be targeted and not across the board.  Two Greek bonds on the ECB’s books totaling 3.1 billion
euros mature on Aug. 20, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
troika is due back in  Athens  on July 24 to discuss how to put
Greece’s program on track as it tries to win a disbursement of
4.2 billion euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christos Ziotis in Athens at 
 cziotis@bloomberg.net ;
Eleni Chrepa in Athens at 
 echrepa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  