-- Greek Disaster Averted Points to ERF Link for All Concerned
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-07-19T10:52:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/greek-disaster-averted-points-to-erf-s-bridge-for-all-concerned.html
While debt sharing in the euro area
to stem the financial crisis has never been closer, German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  may keep it out of reach.  The European Parliament has inserted a provision into a
draft budget law that would set up a fund to pool and help repay
the debts of nations in the 17-member euro bloc. The proposal
would link a policy opposed by Merkel to deficit-control
legislation she has championed. Talks began July 11 and may last
for months.  Supporters of the plan, including former Belgian Prime
Minister  Guy Verhofstadt , say it’s time for a new approach to
save the single currency after more than 386 billion euros ($474
billion) of loan pledges to distressed euro states since 2010
failed to reduce borrowing costs for nations such as Spain and
 Italy . The bill calls for countries to transfer debt exceeding
the European Union threshold of 60 percent of gross domestic
product into a redemption fund, or ERF, and repay this money
over 25 years, while cutting budgets and taking steps to promote
economic growth.  “It’s a game-changer because what you do is create a real
firewall and not a fire extinguisher,” said Verhofstadt, who
now leads the pro-business Liberal group in the EU Parliament,
in an interview. “Finally, we shall see that it’s the only
solution for this crisis.”  Spanish Auction  Spain ’s borrowing costs rose at an auction of 2.98 billion
euros of notes today as investor demand weakened. The result
drove 10-year Spanish yields to as high as 7.04 percent, almost
six times  Germany ’s 1.23 percent.  The EU assembly, based in Strasbourg,  France , introduced
the redemption-fund amendment on June 13, four days before 
elections in  Greece  installed a pro-bailout coalition, averting 
the potential disaster of a government promising to renege on 
bailout terms.  Frustration is growing across  Europe  over a Merkel-led
initiative to impose budget cuts on euro nations already in a
recession. The austerity-first doctrine has deepened the bloc’s
economic slump as well as the divisions over how to solve the
crisis. Merkel rejected a June 26 blueprint drafted by EU
President  Herman Van Rompuy  laying out a path toward even deeper
debt mutualization through the creation of euro bonds.  In a sign that leaders are seeking to break new ground,
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has floated
imposing losses on senior bank debtholders in restructurings, an
option rejected by his predecessor,  Jean-Claude Trichet .  Fast-Track Relief  With Greece, Ireland,  Portugal , Spain and Cyprus dependent
on a European financial lifeline and Italy battling to avoid
becoming the biggest victim, the Parliament wants to offer
relief by fast-tracking a move toward debt sharing.  To bolster its leverage, the assembly added its redemption-
fund provision to a Germany-backed EU draft law to toughen
controls on spending by euro governments. The legislation is the
latest feature of a German-designed fiscal straitjacket that the
EU has fashioned over the past two years, while saying a pooling
of debt may be possible at a later stage.  “It’s enough talking,” said Elisa Ferreira, a Portuguese
member of the 754-seat Parliament and a negotiator of the new
law with national governments. “We are in an emergency
situation. It’s time to have a vision. It’s really the moment.”  Politics in Germany may dictate otherwise as Merkel gears
up for 2013 elections. Her approval rating is the highest since
2009, according to a poll for ARD public television, helped by
her handling of the European crisis. This has included a rebuff
of calls by Italy and Spain for Germany to help underwrite the
entire currency union’s debt.  Merkel’s Vow  Merkel has said that AAA rated Germany shouldn’t have to
compensate for mismanagement in other countries and urged them
to mend their spendthrift ways and revamp their economies.  “There will be no simple or liberating blow with which the
debt crisis can be overcome,” Merkel said June 27 in Berlin.
“No, if we manage to overcome the crisis in a sustainable way,
there is only the possibility to go through a process of
measures that go to the roots of the problem.”  Malcolm Barr, an economist at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  in
 London , says a European redemption fund would risk becoming a
“Trojan Horse” for the permanent issuance of euro bonds
without more integrated fiscal policy and controls in Europe.  “Germany would be much better advised to recognize at the
outset how difficult a euro-bond cat will be to put back in the
bag once it is out,” Barr wrote in a June 18 report. “A debt
redemption fund type idea would make most sense to us if
presented alongside a timeline of negotiations over governance
in the region.”  The EU Parliament’s amendment on an ERF is modelled on a
proposal by Merkel’s own economic advisers. The German leader
rejected the idea last year before agreeing to reconsider it to
win backing from the opposition in Berlin for European bailout
agreements.  ‘Last Bulwark’  Merkel wants to present herself as the “last bulwark”
against profligate southern Europeans before next year’s vote,
Lars Feld, a professor of economics at Freiburg University and a
member of Merkel’s council of economic advisers, said in an
interview yesterday.  Verhofstadt says Merkel’s rejection is paradoxical given
her concerns about the cost of taxpayer-funded bailouts and
insistence that investors contribute to a second rescue of
Greece earlier this year through the biggest debt writedown in
history. A redemption fund would mean more help from
bondholders, who would accept lower yields from the fund than
yields exceeding 6 percent in Spain and Italy, he said.  “If they agree on this solution, they could explain it
easily to the public,” Verhofstadt said. “It isn’t mainly
taxpayers but bondholders who pay the bill. I think it’s a
psychological problem.”  Fund’s Operation  A European redemption fund, to which the countries would
provide collateral, would be based on joint liability and pool
transferred debt totaling about 2.3 trillion euros in return for
national budget consolidation. It would give breathing space to
governments that face unsustainable borrowing costs by offering
lower  interest rates  on this portion of their debt.  To repay their transferred debt over 25 years, the
countries that take part would enter into payment obligations
toward the redemption fund, which would sell its own bonds to
cover the refinancing requirements of the participants.  Ten-year yields for the redemption fund would probably be
between 2.5 percent and 3 percent, the  German Council of
Economic Experts  said in late January. Germany’s refinancing
costs, which have fallen “well below” normal levels during the
region’s debt crisis, would probably rise to a comparable level,
according to the German council.  Germany now pays about 1.2 percent to borrow for 10 years.
The average for the past five years is 3.1 percent.  ‘No-Go in Germany’  “Economically, it’s not a bad idea,”  Daniel Gros ,
director of the Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels,
said in an interview. “Politically, it’s probably a no-go in
Germany.”  Gros said clues to the legality in Germany of a European
redemption fund would come from a planned Sept. 12 verdict by
the country’s Federal Constitutional Court on the euro area’s
permanent bailout facility. The facility is known as the
European Stability Mechanism.  Lawmakers, academics and political groups have filed suits
in Germany seeking an injunction against the ESM, arguing that
it transfers constitutionally mandated authority from German
parliamentarians to European authorities and undermines
democratic rule.  Verhofstadt said a European redemption fund limited in time
and in amount would be compatible with Germany’s constitution
and wouldn’t require an EU treaty change.  ‘Feasible, Effective’  “It is something that is feasible immediately, and
effective,” he said.  Cyprus, which holds the 27-nation EU’s rotating presidency
through December, will negotiate with the Parliament on behalf
of governments.  “The Cyprus presidency, at this stage, does not wish to
make any comment on the Parliament proposal,” said Nikos
Christodoulides, a spokesman for the Cypriot government.  Verhofstadt said the Parliament would block the tougher
spending-control rules unless the redemption-fund provision is
included. The legislation would let the EU screen the budgets of
governments earlier, monitor more closely countries such as
Italy where rising borrowing costs threaten financial stability
and impose tighter surveillance of nations after they exit
rescue programs.  European Treaty  The draft laws build on six pieces of 2011 legislation that
granted the EU stronger powers to sanction spendthrift euro
countries. The latest rules, known as the “two pack,” also
follow a European treaty aimed at limiting budget deficits.  “There is no two pack if there is no redemption fund,”
Verhofstadt said. “We stick to that.”  Ferreira said she and her fellow Parliament negotiators
would negotiate for “as long as it takes” with governments
over the redemption fund.  “This is a landmark proposal,” she said. “We are
prepared to fight for it. I don’t expect it to be easy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  