-- Gross’s ETF Reaches $2 Billion as Version Trumps Original
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/gross-s-etf-reaches-2-billion-as-version-trumps-original.html
Bill Gross ’s Total Return Exchange-
Traded Fund has doubled its assets in less than two months, as
performance trumped that of the world’s largest mutual fund,
whose strategy it mimics.  The Pimco Total Return ETF, which started trading on the
NYSE Arca exchange on March 1, had $2.01 billion in net assets
as of the July 16 close, according to Pacific Investment
Management Co.’s website. The fund had advanced 7.7 percent,
compared with the  4.2 percent  return for Gross’s $263 billion
Total Return mutual fund, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The new vehicle, designed to blend the trading flexibility
and accessibility of ETFs with Gross’s bond-picking ability, is
a test case for investor interest in active ETFs. In April,
Pimco began an actively managed ETF that invests in global
inflation-linked  government bonds  denominated in local
currencies, bringing the total number of actively managed ETFs
at Pimco to six. Its Enhanced Short Maturity Strategy Fund has
$1.73 billion in assets.  Pimco Total Return ETF (BOND)  reached $1 billion in net assets on
May 21. Because the ETF is still much smaller than the mutual
fund version, it can snap up notes with the biggest potential
returns.  The Pimco Total Return Fund, while trailing its ETF
version, is outperforming 98 percent of similarly managed mutual
funds this year and over five years.  Unlike the mutual fund, which uses a combination of
options, futures and swap agreements, Gross’s ETF can’t invest
in derivatives because the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has frozen approval of new ETFs that make significant
use of the instruments. Should the SEC lift the temporary ban,
the Total Return ETF would invest in derivatives, Pimco said in
its filing last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  