-- Guangdong Zhenrong Offers to Buy 51% of Titan Petrochemicals
-- B y   G u o   A i b i n g
-- 2012-07-18T08:39:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/guangdong-zhenrong-offers-to-buy-51-of-titan-petrochemicals.html
Guangdong Zhenrong Energy Co.,
backed by a Chinese state-owned company, offered as much as
HK$200 million ($25.8 million) for a controlling stake in  Titan
Petrochemicals Group Ltd. (1192)   Guangdong will pay between HK$150 million and $200 million
for a 51 percent holding via a share sale, Titan said yesterday
in a statement to the Hong Kong stock exchange. Guangdong also
offered as much as HK$1.3 billion to acquire a stake owned by
 Warburg Pincus  LLC, subject to the dismissal of winding-up
proceedings against the company.  “We hope Titan shareholders can seriously consider it,”
Li Hui, a Guangdong-based spokesman at the acquirer, said by
telephone today. “It’s too early to publicly comment on the
matter beyond Titan’s filing to the exchange.”  Saturn Petrochemical Holdings Ltd., a special-purpose
vehicle of private-equity firm Warburg Pincus, filed a winding-
up petition against Titan in the  Supreme Court  of Bermuda July
5. Titan, which provides services including oil and storage
transportation in the Asia-Pacific region, said it is in
shareholders and creditors’ interest to pursue talks on the
deal.  Shares Halted  Titan  shares , which have fallen 22 percent this year, were
suspended in  Hong Kong  on June 19 ahead of a company
announcement. The stock remains halted, it said today.  The company is still assessing the offer and a deal is not
certain, Titan said.  Guangdong Zhenrong, which trades oil products, non-ferrous
metals, coal and chemicals, will also provide short-term
financing of as much HK$320 million to Hong Kong-based Titan,
according to the filing. Guangdong is 44.3 percent owned by
state-owned Zhuhai Zhenrong Co., Titan said in the statement.  Zhuhai Zhenrong was sanctioned by the U.S. in January for
gasoline sales to  Iran  between July 2010 and July 2011, the U.S.
State Department said in a statement Jan. 13.  Warburg has invested more than $215 million in the Titan
group of companies since 2007, according to the petition filed
in  Bermuda . Titan hasn’t been profitable in any of the past five
years, and its liabilities at the end of last year exceeded its
assets by HK$1.24 billion, according to the petition.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  