-- IBM Boosts Profit Forecast After Quarter Tops Estimates
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-07-19T13:32:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/ibm-raises-annual-forecast-after-second-quarter-beats-estimates.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) ’s decadelong shift to higher-margin software sales helped
the company overcome a slowdown in technology spending last
quarter and boost its full-year earnings forecast.  Excluding some items, profit will increase to at least
$15.10 a share this year, up from a previous forecast of $15,
Armonk, New York-based IBM said yesterday in a statement.
Analysts had predicted $15.06 on average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings were $3.51 in the quarter,
topping the $3.43 average estimate, even as sales declined.  IBM, the world’s biggest computer-services provider, aims
to get half of its earnings from software by 2015 -- a move away
from less-profitable hardware and services. Chief Executive
Officer Ginni Rometty sees an opportunity for growth by selling
software in developing economies and creating programs that work
with cloud computing and business analytics.  “This quarter certainly suggests that the software play
was a good idea,” said Andrew Bartels, an analyst with
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Forrester Research Inc. “The
margins are much better than in other categories, and there are
signs that demand may start to get stronger in the second half
of the year.”  IBM rose  3.1 percent to $194.16 at 9:31 a.m. in New York.
The stock had already climbed 2.4 percent this year.  Adding Salespeople  The company plans to hire as many as 300 salespeople each
month for the rest of the year to help promote its software
products, Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said yesterday
on a conference call. The shift to software, along with other
moves such as stock buybacks and acquisitions, has helped IBM
keep earnings stable through the economic headwinds in  Europe 
and a slowdown in  China , said  Amit Daryanani , an analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets  in New York.  “They’re continuing to execute on things that have worked
for them in the past,” he said. “They have a lot of levers,
like accelerating cost savings or doing more aggressive
buybacks, to reach their numbers.”  IBM sales fell 3 percent to $25.8 billion last quarter,
dragged down by sluggish demand for hardware and currency
fluctuations. Adjusting for currency changes, the revenue
climbed 1 percent. Analysts had predicted sales of $26.3
billion, the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit Goal  Rometty has a five-year plan that targets annual operating
earnings of at least $20 a share by 2015, up from $13.44 last
year. Analytics software, which helps businesses predict trends,
is seen generating $16 billion in sales by 2015, while cloud
computing will account for $7 billion. Companies are
increasingly storing their data and programs in the cloud, which
means they access the software online via remote data centers.  IBM has used buybacks to reduce its share count by a third
since 2000 and boosted its repurchase plan by $7 billion in
April. That has helped the company lift its earnings per share
and stock price and won praise from investors such as  Warren Buffett .  Second-quarter net income increased 5.9 percent to $3.88
billion, or $3.34 a share, from $3.66 billion, or $3, a year
earlier. IBM’s sales in Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  were
worth less when converted to dollars, as the euro declined about
12 percent from a year earlier. The credit crisis in the region
also may have hurt growth.  “IBM hedges for that quite a bit, but currency got ugly,”
said  Ed Maguire , an analyst with Credit Agricole Securities in
New York.  Formerly IBM’s sales and marketing head, Rometty, 54,
succeeded  Sam Palmisano  in January. She became the first female
CEO in the company’s 100-year history. Palmisano, who had been
CEO since 2002, remains chairman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  