-- Libor Reported as Rigged in ’08 Proving 2012’s Revelation
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-07-19T13:16:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/libor-reported-as-rigged-in-08-crisis-proving-revelation-in-12.html
Barclays Plc’s admission that it
rigged the London interbank offered rate shows regulators,
central bankers and politicians weren’t paying attention when
everyone from Citigroup Inc. to the  Bank for International
Settlements  indicated that the measure was being manipulated.  The BIS signaled in March 2008 that the benchmark was being
misstated. A month later, analysts at Citigroup suggested the
same. In May of that year, one of Barclays’s own strategists
said the numbers reported by banks “were a lie.”  Barclays’s acknowledgement that it submitted false rates
during the height of the credit crisis cost Chief Executive
Officer  Robert Diamond  and other top managers their jobs and cut
the bank’s market value by about 4.4 billion pounds ($6.9
billion). In the U.K. and abroad, at least a dozen banks are
being investigated for manipulating Libor.  Mervyn King , the  Bank
of England  Governor since 2003, said this week that he only
recently became aware of wrongdoing in the rate published by the
British Bankers’ Association.  “The basic underpinning in credit is confidence and
trust,”  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets
Group in  New York , said in a July 18 telephone interview.
“There has to be this trust in other parties if credit is going
to work.”  Deficient Oversight  Five years after the onset of the worst financial crisis
since the Great Depression, there’s still a lack of oversight of
an opaque measure that has rattled markets and further eroded
confidence in the financial system. Libor is a benchmark for
$500 trillion of worldwide financial products from leveraged
derivatives to home mortgages.  At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide for potentially rigging the benchmark rate, including
Citigroup, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, UBS AG, Lloyds
Banking Group Plc and Deutsche Bank AG.  Japan’s banking lobby said this week it may review lenders’
rate submissions and South Korea regulators started a probe into
possible collusion in its money markets. Citigroup and UBS were
ordered in December by Japanese regulators to suspend some
businesses after their bankers were found to have attempted to
influence the Tokyo interbank offered rate, or Tibor.  While e-mails from the New York Federal Reserve Bank
indicate King must have known that Libor was being misstated,
officials had incentive to ignore the rigging as they sought to
manage the credit crisis, said  Richard Bove , an analyst with
Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz, Florida, with more than 40
years of Wall Street experience.  Fed Ignored  “If he was unaware, he was ignoring what the president of
the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  was asking about,” Bove
said in a July 18 telephone interview.  Libor is derived from a survey of London banks conducted
each day by  Thomson Reuters Corp. (TRI)  on behalf of the BBA.
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
 Thomson Reuters  in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  Lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow
from each other for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss
francs. After a set number of quotes are excluded, those
remaining are averaged and published for each currency by the
bankers’ association before noon. The three-month rate in
dollars was as set at 0.4531 percent today.  Subprime Collapse  Libor became a closely watched measure in 2008 as a gauge
of the health of the financial system as the world’s largest
banks were in the midst of taking more than $1 trillion in
writedowns and losses on toxic debt stemming from the collapse
of the subprime mortgage market in the U.S.  Within a matter of weeks in August 2007, the difference
between Libor and three-month Treasury bill rates, a measure
called the TED spread, jumped to 2.4 percentage points from less
than 0.5 percentage point as banks become wary of lending to
each other. In the prior 12 months the gap averaged about 0.38
percentage point. The spread remained elevated through 2008,
widening to as much as 4.64 percentage points in October
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  It was in March 2008 -- the same month the Fed brokered
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s buyout of Bear Stearns Cos. as bank
losses mounted -- that the three-month  Libor rate  in dollars
fell 40 basis points, or 0.40 percentage point, to 2.7 percent
even as yields on financial company bonds worldwide climbed
almost half a percentage point to 5.86 percent.  BIS Report  While the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS, a type of central
bank for central banks, concluded in a March 2008 report that
the system of establishing daily short-term  interest rates 
between banks generally worked as intended during the early
stages of the credit crisis, its economists said in interviews
at the time that there was concern banks were manipulating the
fixing process to prevent their borrowing costs from escalating.  Scott Peng, head of U.S. interest-rate strategy at
Citigroup’s global markets unit in New York, wrote a research
note April 10, 2008, titled “Is Libor Broken?” that brought
widespread attention to the possibility that European banks were
likely submitting lower-than-actual transacted rates to avoid
“being perceived as a weak hand in a fragile market.”  Three-month Libor, 2.71 percent at that time, was likely
too low by 20 basis points to 30 basis points, Peng wrote in a
report with co-authors Chintan Gandhi and Alexander Tyo. Peng
left the bank in 2009.  BBA Warning  Libor rates jumped after the BBA said April 16, 2008 that
any member banks found to be misquoting rates will be banned
from the survey. The cost of borrowing in dollars for  three
months  rose 18 basis points to 2.91 percent in the following two
days. The one-month rate climbed 14 basis points, the most since
November.  Tim Bond , then head of  asset allocation  at  Barclays
Capital , said in May 2008 that banks routinely misstated
borrowing costs to avoid the perception they faced difficulty
raising funds as the financial system reeled.  “The Libor numbers that banks reported to the BBA were a
lie,” Bond said. “They had been all along. The BBA has been
trying to investigate them and that’s why banks have started to
report the right numbers.”  A survey in June 2008 also suggested that the benchmark was
inaccurate. Eighty-two percent of the 106 respondents agreed
that Libor didn’t represent actual rates in money markets,
according to respondents in an ACI-The Financial Markets
Association poll in May 2008.  ‘Somewhat Flummoxed’  Of those members noting a discrepancy, 24 percent indicated
inconsistencies mainly involved U.S. dollar Libor, which varied
15 basis points to 25 basis points from actual rates.  “Whether or not Mervyn King knew about it, and when he
knew about it, is just speculation, but I’ll tell you in the
marketplace there were a lot of people aware of what was going
on and were somewhat flummoxed,”  Andrew Busch , a global
currency and public policy strategist at Bank of Montreal in
Chicago, said July 17 in a telephone interview. “It seemed
something was incorrect.”  A Bank of England spokesman, who didn’t want to be named in
line with the institution’s communication policy, referred to
the comments by the governor to the Treasury Committee this week
and declined to comment further.  King, in his testimony this week, said that a memo from
then New York Fed President  Timothy F. Geithner  in 2008
regarding Libor didn’t highlight malpractice. He told
Parliament’s Treasury Committee on July 17 in London that the e-
mail included recommendations for Libor rules rather than
allegations of manipulation.  Geithner, who is now Secretary of the U.S. Treasury
Department, wanted procedures to prevent “misreporting,” and
the bankers’ association, which was reviewing Libor at the time,
said it would take the recommendations on board.  No Evidence  “Mr. Geithner was sending that to us as a suggestion for
how these rules should be constructed and we agreed with him,
but neither of us had evidence of wrongdoing,” King said. “The
first I knew of any alleged wrongdoing was when the reports came
out two weeks ago.”  The New York Fed knew “some banks” were potentially
understating submissions for Libor as early as 2007, according
to a statement posted on its website on July 13. A Barclays
employee told a New York Fed staff member in April 2008 that the
U.K.’s second-largest lender was underreporting its rate to
avoid a “stigma,” the central bank said.  “There were a lot of rumors flying around in 2008,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia, which oversees $12 billion in fixed income
assets, said July 17 in a telephone interview. “I would also
point out that Libor and movements in Libor were a very small
piece of a much larger puzzle at the time. You put out the
largest fires first.”  Libor ‘Dislocations’  Adair Turner , chairman of the Financial Services
Authority, was first notified about the Libor investigation in
November 2009, when then FSA Chief Executive Officer  Hector Sants  told him about the case they were working on with the U.S.
Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  In testimony to U.K. lawmakers on July 16 Turner said it
hadn’t occurred to him before 2009 that the rate was something
that could be manipulated. Barclays employees told the FSA about
“dislocations” in the benchmark and didn’t say that anyone was
submitting false rates, he told the Treasury Select Committee.  The reports only reached the junior level and weren’t
escalated to senior management, Turner said. He asked the FSA’s
internal audit department to review any contact with Barclays to
determine whether the agency missed red flags on Libor.  “This was under-regulated,” George Mudie, a lawmaker from
the opposition Labour party, told Turner at the hearing in
London. “You were warned about it and warned about it.”  Bernanke’s Conclusion  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, among the
regulators that levied the $451 million fine against Barclays,
has laid out a hierarchy of transactions or instruments that
panel member banks should consider when deciding on what rate to
submit in the daily Libor fixing.  Arlene McCarthy , the lawmaker leading work in the European
Parliament on draft rules against market abuse, said today the
assembly should conduct a full hearing into the Libor scandal.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said July 17 in responding to
questions during testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in
Washington that the Fed was concerned by the underreporting of
Libor and had a “substantial response” to address the problem.  Bernanke said the Fed didn’t have information to suggest
banks were manipulating rates “for profit,” only that some
banks were “possibly submitting low rates to avoid appearing
weak” during the financial crisis, he said.  “It’s going to further erode confidence in financial
markets and financial instruments,” Bernanke said during his
second day of testimony yesterday before the House Financial
Services Committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  