-- Tanker Charters Seen at 17-Month Low as China Demand Slides
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-07-18T16:00:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/middle-east-tanker-charters-seen-falling-10-by-marex-on-china.html
The largest oil-tankers booked to
haul 2 million-barrel cargoes of crude from ports in the  Persian
Gulf  are poised to  slump  to a 17-month low as a slowdown in the
world’s second-largest economy curbs oil demand.  Charters of very large crude carriers to ship Middle East
crude will probably fall by 10 percent from June to 115
shipments this month, the lowest tally since February 2011,
Kevin Sy, a Singapore-based freight-derivatives broker at Marex
Spectron Group, said by e-mail today. A reduction in bookings to
China will be the biggest contributor to the slump, he said.  The Asian country’s  economy  slowed for a sixth quarter, the
National Bureau of Statistics said July 13. China grew 7.6
percent last quarter from a year earlier, the data showed. The
pace, a three-year low, compares with an 8.1 percent gain in the
previous period, the data showed. Concerns that embargoes on
Iranian oil cargoes could disrupt crude supplies helped boost
tanker bookings in November and December to the highest since
January 2011, according to Marex Spectron data.  “The downturn in charters to  China  is a function of
vigorous stockpiling and a slowdown in Chinese economic
growth,” said Nigel Prentis, London-based research director at
HSBC Shipping Services Ltd. “It’s maybe a reflection of
weakening final demand, certainly over the rest of this
quarter.”  Net Imports  China bought 5.28 million barrels a day more crude than it
exported last month, customs data show. That’s the least since
net imports of 5.1 million barrels a day in December and
compares with a record high of 5.98 million barrels a day in
May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The world’s second-largest oil consumer built a surplus of
about 90 million barrels in the first five months of the year,
its fastest stockpiling since the run-up to the 2008 Olympics.  China is constructing about 207 million barrels of storage
capacity in the second stage of a plan for strategic reserves to
help it manage price swings. The country finished building four
sites in 2009 under the first phase of the reserve that can hold
about 103 million barrels. About 207 million barrels of storage
capacity at eight sites will be built for the second stage,
China National Petroleum Corp. said in its February report.
Third-phase facilities are still being planned.  Highest Since 1990  U.S. crude  inventories  are near a 22-year high, curbing
demand for imports, according to data from the U.S. Department
of Energy. Total inventories were 377 million barrels on July
13, the data show. They were at 387 million barrels four weeks
earlier, the highest since July 1990.  VLCCs plying the industry’s benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan
trade route are  losing  $5,878 a day during the ships’ worst
month since October, according to data from the  Baltic Exchange 
in  London . Frontline Ltd., the largest VLCC operator, said in
June it needed daily returns of $24,100 to break even.  The exchange’s assessments don’t reflect speed cuts aimed
at reducing fuel costs, vessel owners’ largest expense. The
price of ship fuel, or bunkers, rose 0.8 percent to $609.85 a
metric ton, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Charter rates for VLCCs on the benchmark voyage slipped 0.6
percent to 33.67 industry-standard Worldscale points, exchange
data show.  The Worldscale system is a method for pricing oil cargoes
on thousands of trade routes. Each individual voyage’s flat
rate, expressed in dollars a ton, is set once a year. Today’s
level means hire costs on the benchmark route are 33.67 percent
of the nominal Worldscale rate for that voyage.  Frontline, controlled by billionaire  John Fredriksen , plans
to expand into dry-bulk and liquefied petroleum gas shipping as
it set a three-year goal of forming a “more diversified
platform,” according to a company statement in May.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  