-- Highstar Said to Be Near $1.85 Billion Deal for Veolia Unit
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S o n j a   E l m q u i s t
-- 2012-07-18T21:48:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/highstar-said-to-be-near-1-85-billion-deal-for-veolia-u-s-unit.html
Highstar Capital is nearing a deal
to acquire  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE) ’s U.S. waste-management
business for about $1.85 billion, according to people with
knowledge of the matter.  The purchase may be announced as soon as Thursday, said one
of the people, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. Highstar, the infrastructure-focused private equity
firm once affiliated with  American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
beat bids from buyout firm Madison Dearborn Partners LLC and
Brazilian conglomerate Estre Ambiental SA, the people said.  Veolia, the world’s biggest water company, is shedding the
unit as it tries to cut debt by 20 percent to 12 billion euros
($14.7 billion) by the end of next year. Antoine Frerot,
chairman and chief executive officer of the Paris-based company,
said last month he wants to focus on “promising” countries and
will pursue asset sales in the U.S. and U.K.  Veolia plans to sell 5 billion euros worth of assets this
year and next, cut operating costs by 120 million euros in 2013
and narrow its geographic reach. On June 28, Veolia sold its
U.K. regulated-water business to Infracapital Partners for 1.2
billion pounds ($1.9 billion).  Veolia ES Solid Waste Inc. has more than 300 locations that
provide hazardous and non-hazardous waste management and
industrial cleaning services, the company said on its website.  Highstar already operates U.S. waste management businesses
Advanced Disposal Services Inc. and Interstate Waste Services
Inc, according to the New York-based company’s  website .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Sonja Elmquist in New York at 
 selmquist1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  