-- Milan Swaps Prosecutor Seeks Ban and Fines for UBS, JPMorgan
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-07-18T16:53:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/milan-swaps-prosecutor-seeks-ban-on-4-banks-from-government-work.html
Milan Prosecutor Alfredo Robledo
asked a court to ban  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Depfa Bank Plc,  UBS AG (UBSN) 
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  from doing business with Italian local
governments for a year for mis-selling swaps to the city.  The prosecutor today asked a Milan court to fine the banks
1.5 million euros ($1.8 million) each and asked they return
their 72.5 million euros of illicit profit from the contracts.  The four banks that arranged the swaps have been on trial
since May 2010, accused of defrauding Milan by hiding their
fees. The companies, which have denied the charges, settled with
the city government in March and agreed to unwind the interest-
rate swaps, which adjusted payments on 1.7 billion euros of
bonds sold by the city in 2005. Opaque derivatives fashioned by
securities firms are costing Italian taxpayers more than  $1.5
billion , according to March data by the country’s central bank.  “The evidence doesn’t support the sentences and sanctions
requested by the prosecutor,” UBS said in an e-mailed statement
today. JPMorgan and Deutsche Bank said they acted properly in
their dealings with the city. Officials at Depfa didn’t have an
immediate comment.  Robledo today asked to absolve two city officials who had
been accused of colluding with the banks and two bankers because
of insufficient evidence, he said. He requested nine other
bankers serve jail terms of as long as 12 months.  Swaps used by the city of Milan may have breached rules on
how municipalities use derivatives to manage their debt, partly
because they were used to raise funds, a judicially-appointed
witness said at the trial in May. The swaps were far from being
hedges on the municipality’s interest-rate risk after being
restructured multiple times, he said.  Hidden Fees  The banks said in court that firms don’t typically disclose
the fees they charge to arrange swaps, tailored trades that lack
comparable market prices. Former Milan Mayor Gabriele Albertini
told the court in November he knew banks would charge the city
for arranging the 2005 financing package that included swaps,
though he didn’t know the amount of the commissions.  His successor, Letizia Moratti, said she had relied on the
banks as advisers on subsequent transactions. The securities
firms thus had a “clear” conflict of interest, she said.  David Dobell, a former official at Britain’s Securities and
Futures Authority, testified earlier that the banks had violated
U.K. rules by failing to tell city officials they had lost the
protection typically given to clients under rules set by the
Financial Services Authority. The banks’ advice and execution
didn’t observe FSA rules, he said.  Lawyers for the banks will make their final arguments in
September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  