-- Millennial Media Falls on Mobile-Ad Concerns: Washington Mover
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h a y k o w s k i
-- 2012-07-18T17:25:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/millennial-media-falls-on-mobile-ad-concerns-washington-mover.html
Millennial Media Inc. (MM) , a seller of
advertising space on handheld devices, declined for an eighth
straight day amid concern about the profitability of mobile ads.  The shares  fell 1.3 percent to $10.61 at 1:20 p.m. in New
York, the lowest price since the company’s March 28 initial
public offering. Millennial Media stock slid as much as 4.4
percent earlier today, and has dropped more than 18 percent
since its IPO.  “There is a lot of concern right now about what is
happening in mobile advertising,” said  Jason Helfstein , an
analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., in a telephone interview today.
“Facebook has been talking a lot about the challenges facing
mobile ads. Clearly investors are concerned about owning
Millennial Media’s stock.”  The Baltimore-based company projected 2012 revenue of $173
million to $176 million on May 14. Analysts on average project
annual sales will be $175.7 million, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Millennial Media, the second-largest U.S. mobile-
ad company after  Google Inc. (GOOG) , lets advertisers target consumers
through applications on devices such as smartphones and tablets.  Shares of Facebook Inc., owner of the world’s largest
social network, have also been under pressure amid investor
concerns about the company’s ability to make money from
advertisers vying to reach social-network users on mobile
devices. Through yesterday, Facebook had declined 26 percent
since its May 17 IPO.  Still, Helfstein said he expects the performance of mobile
ads to improve over time, and he rates Millennial Media stock
outperform, the equivalent of a buy rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Chaykowski in  New York  at 
 kchaykowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  