-- IMF Urges EU to Deliver on Bank Pledge to Aid Irish Return
-- B y   D a r a   D o y l e   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-07-18T17:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/imf-urges-eu-to-deliver-on-bank-pledge-to-aid-irish-return-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
pressed European leaders to deliver on their pledge to break the
link between governments and banks, and aid Ireland’s return to
the  bond market .  “Success in Ireland will hinge on euro-area stability and
recovery,” IMF Deputy Director Ajai Chopra told reporters in
Dublin today. The IMF expects European leaders to implement the
commitments made last month, which include setting up a pan-
euro-region banking supervisor and directly recapitalizing
banks, Chopra said.  Ireland has pledged or injected about 64 billion euros ($78
billion) to save its financial system. The government is seeking
help to refinance about 30 billion euros used to rescue the
former Anglo Irish Bank Corp. The IMF said today that the
nation’s banks may have to rely on extra liquidity from the
 European Central Bank  as debts come due.  The IMF is helping to formulate a plan for Irish banks with
the aim of improving the nation’s debt sustainability, Chopra
said. There is a new political mandate in  Europe  for severing
the link between bank and sovereign debt, he said.  ‘Durable Return’  European support for Irish banks will facilitate “a
durable return of the sovereign to market financing,” the IMF
said separately in a report today. Irish Finance Minister
 Michael Noonan  said yesterday after a meeting with ECB President
 Mario Draghi  that the country is “making progress” in easing
the terms of its international bailout.  Chopra said that the matter of a timetable for an Irish
bank accord was between Ireland and European authorities. The
yield on Ireland’s 5 percent security due in October 2020 was
little changed at 6.26 percent.  The cost to the state of bailing out its banks is about 40
percent of GDP and accounts for about half the increase in net
public debt in recent years, according the IMF. While there is
little “low hanging fruit” for additional expenditure cuts,
there is scope for broadening the tax base to generate more
revenues, the IMF said.  The prospects for Ireland’s economic recovery ultimately
will hinge on calmer euro-area financial conditions and a
revival in growth among Ireland’s trading partners, according to
IMF. The IMF forecasts the Irish economy to slow to 0.5 percent
this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net  