-- IMF Says Europe Needs Stronger Monetary Union to Stem Contagion
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-07-18T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/imf-says-europe-needs-stronger-monetary-union-to-stem-contagion.html
Europe’s leaders need to move toward
a more complete monetary union if “substantial” spillover
effects for the global economy are to be avoided, the
 International Monetary Fund  said.  The immediate priority is making progress toward a banking
union for the euro area, the IMF said in a staff report on euro-
area economic policies today. While acknowledging that leaders
have taken important steps already, the report argued that an
even stronger and more collective effort is required to staunch
financial contagion from the crisis.  “A strong commitment toward a robust and complete monetary
union would help restore faith in the viability” of the
economic and monetary union, the IMF said. “This should
encompass a credible path to a banking union and greater fiscal
integration, with better governance and more risk sharing.”  Leaders have struggled to contain a crisis of confidence in
 Europe ’s fiscal health since  Greece  became the first of five
countries so far to ask for aid from international lenders
including the IMF in 2010. Last month, a fresh push for enhanced
joint budgetary control and closer financial-sector integration
was overshadowed by the appeal of  Spain , the region’s fourth-
largest economy, for funds to recapitalize its ailing banks.  ‘Acute Stress’  “The adverse links between sovereigns, banks and the real
economy are stronger than ever,” the IMF said. “Despite major
policy actions, financial markets in parts of the region remain
under acute stress, raising questions about the viability of the
monetary union itself.”  As the crisis has deepened, the growth outlook has waned,
according to the report. While maintaining its forecast on July
16 for a 0.3 percent contraction of the euro-area economy in
2012, the IMF revised down the growth outlook for 2013 to 0.7
percent from 0.9 percent. In today’s report it cited subdued
domestic demand, imminent budget cuts, and deteriorating global
performance as drags on growth.  “With many of these headwinds significantly stronger in
the periphery, growth is expected to be much lower there than in
the core,” the IMF said. “Germany and  France  are expected to
post weak but positive growth in 2012.”  Analysts are cutting European profit forecasts at the
fastest rate since 2009 as the region heads for a recession and
growth in  China  slows for a sixth quarter.  ‘Sizable Risk’  Given the dim economic prospects, the inflation rate is
likely to fall “well below” the ECB’s target of 2 percent next
year and remain under that level during 2014, the IMF said.  “There is a sizable risk that inflation could even turn
negative in the medium run,” the IMF said, assessing the risk
of deflation as 25 percent by early 2014.  “This risk of deflation is relatively low in the faster-
growing economies, but significant in the periphery, where
administrative price and tax increases are masking more severe
downward price pressures from still substantial output gaps,”
the IMF said.  The IMF’s deflation warning contrasts with European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s remark on July 12 that there is
“no sign” of deflation in any euro country. The ECB on July 5
cut its benchmark interest rate to a record low of 0.75 percent
and its deposit rate, which has steered market rates since the
financial turmoil started, to zero.  ‘Selective Measures’  The ECB could provide a stronger bulwark against renewed
crisis pressures by cutting its main interest rate further,
implementing a program of large-scale asset purchases and
undertaking further multi-year loans to banks, the IMF said.  A more accommodative monetary policy is needed from the
ECB, and that would “likely include unconventional measures,”
IMF European Department Deputy Director Mahmood Pradhan said.  “There is some further room to reduce  interest rates , but
it is likely that they will need more measures, and this would
include some traditional measures such as quantitative easing,
or more selective measures,” such as the ECB’s securities
markets program, Pradhan said. “That may need to be scaled
up.”  U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman Ben. S Bernanke yesterday
outlined options to ease policy further in case the flagging
economic recovery fails to lower unemployment, including further
purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities.  Against a backdrop of fiscal consolidation, the fund said
the “overarching challenge” in Europe is to plan budget cuts
without unduly harming economic growth.  “A further intensification of the crisis would have
substantial impact on neighboring European countries and the
rest of the world,” according to the report. “A determined
move toward a more complete union is needed now to demonstrate
policy makers’ unequivocal commitment to sustain” the economic
and monetary union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  