-- IMF Calls on Euro Authorities to Stand Behind Deposit Insurance
-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   J i m   B r u n s d e n
-- 2012-07-18T13:29:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/imf-calls-on-euro-authorities-to-stand-behind-deposit-insurance.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
called on the  European Central Bank  and euro-area authorities to
stand behind deposit insurance within the currency area to help
a common backstop take effect and forestall bank runs.  European leaders should make banking union their immediate
priority in the efforts to fight the debt crisis, the IMF said
in staff reports today related to its annual review of the euro
area. The Washington-based lender called for a rapid
announcement of a timetable toward common deposit insurance,
initially supported by the ECB or some other joint resource
until it could eventually be funded by the banks.  Existing bank backstops are nationally based and don’t go
far enough to reassure customers that their money is safe, the
IMF staff said. Cross-border  deposit insurance , preferably
accompanied by a centralized bank resolution agency, would keep
weaker nations from running up against insolvency if their
largest lenders run into difficulties.  “The key problem in the euro area is the excessive
reliance of banks and sovereigns on each other for finance,”
said Mahmood Pradhan, deputy director of the IMF’s European
Department, in the report. “A strategy to break this link by
supporting weak banks through common resources and a complete
banking union would demonstrate a clear commitment by euro-area
policy makers to ensure the viability of the monetary union.”  Lehman Collapse  European Union nations have provided 4.5 trillion euros
($5.5 trillion) in capital injections, guarantees and other
forms of  state support  to their lenders since the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. Global regulators have called
for losses to be imposed on banks’ creditors as part of a set of
measures to prevent any repeat of these taxpayer bailouts.  Today’s IMF reports called on the EU to deepen its fiscal
integration while pursuing forms of banking union. Countries on
the EU periphery such as Spain, Greece and Ireland face a
downward spiral that encompasses banks, sovereign debt and the
real economy, the fund said.  “Concerns about bank solvency remain large where the
domestic sovereign is weak,” the reports said. “Weak
sovereigns, in turn, are unable to backstop failed banks without
jeopardizing their sovereignty.”  ECB Role  The ECB could take on the role of common bank supervisor,
IMF staff said. This would reduce the links between banks and
governments that are built into the current system of so-called
Emergency Liquidity Assistance for banks that can’t find
financing elsewhere. The IMF staff said the ECB could delegate
some tasks to balance a lender-of-last-resort role against its
need to maintain independence.  As a transitional liquidity backstop for deposit insurance
and bank resolution funds, the euro area could turn to the ECB
or another pool of public resources until industry levies have
raised enough money, the reports said. The IMF also called on
the euro area to “urgently” move ahead with plans to allow the
region’s firewall funds to lend directly to banks.  In the long run, the euro area should put in place bank-
financed funds to cover the costs of failing lenders, the IMF
says in the report. In case these prove insufficient, the funds
should be backed-up by public money that could be tapped as a
last resort source of liquidity, it says. This could come from
“government-provided resources” such as joint debt or the euro
area firewall funds, or from the ECB.  EU leaders said last month that they may let the European
Stability Mechanism, the currency region’s 500 billion-euro
rescue fund, lend directly to banks if there’s a framework for
common bank supervisor that includes an expanded role for the
ECB. Olli Rehn, the 27-nation EU’s economic and monetary affairs
chief, has said that the commission will present a draft law by
early September to create such a single supervisor.  EU nations are required by law to guarantee  bank deposits 
up to 100,000 euros.  Michel Barnier , the EU’s financial services
chief, proposed in 2010 to reinforce these plans by requiring
lenders to pay into standing national funds that would reimburse
savers if their bank fails.  Barnier’s plans have to be approved by the European
Parliament and by national governments in the bloc before they
can come into effect.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  