-- India Consumer-Price Inflation Slows While Remaining Above 10%
-- B y   T u s h a r   D h a r a
-- 2012-07-18T05:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/india-consumer-price-inflation-slows-while-remaining-above-10-.html
Indian consumer-price inflation
slowed in June while exceeding 10 percent and remaining the
fastest among major economies.  The  consumer-price index  climbed 10.02 percent from a year
earlier, compared with 10.36 percent in May, the Statistics
Ministry said in a statement in New Delhi today.  India  faces inflation risks from currency weakness and the
impact of a below average monsoon on agriculture, even with
economic growth at a nine-year low. The pace of price increases
exceeds acceptable levels, central bank Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has said, as India struggles to find scope to join a
monetary stimulus drive this month stretching from  China  to
Brazil and  Europe .  “High food prices and a weak currency are feeding into
inflation,” Upasna Bhardwaj, a Mumbai-based economist at ING
Vysya Bank Ltd., said before the report. The  Reserve Bank  of
India will probably refrain from cutting  interest rates  on July
31 for the second straight meeting, she said.  The rupee, which has slid 19.5 percent against the dollar
in the past year, weakened 0.4 percent to 55.3262 per dollar at
11:15 a.m. in Mumbai. The BSE India Sensitive Index fell 0.3
percent, while the yield on the 8.15 percent government bond due
June 2022 slipped to 8.08 percent from 8.09 percent yesterday.  Indian consumer inflation is the fastest among the Group of
20 major economies. A separate wholesale-price index held above
7 percent for a fifth month, a report showed two days ago.  Jumps in the cost of living in a nation where most people
get by on less than $2 per day prevented the central bank from
lowering  borrowing costs  in June, following a 0.5 percentage
point reduction to 8 percent in April.  Inflation in India is “way above” a threshold that may be
around 5 percent, Subbarao said earlier this week, adding he
wasn’t implying what he might decide at the July policy review.  The consumer-price gauge was created last year and the
government started giving year-on-year data beginning in 2012.
While it is too new to be used as the only headline measure of
inflation, it can’t be ignored and arguably “reflects the most
updated economic structure,” Subbarao said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tushar Dhara in  New Delhi  at 
 tdhara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 