-- Israelis Killed in Bulgaria Blast as Netanyahu Blames Iran
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-07-18T19:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/interior-ministry-confirms-three-dead-in-bulgaria-bus-explosion.html
Six people were killed and more than
30 injured in an blast on a bus carrying Israeli tourists in
 Bulgaria . Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  blamed  Iran 
for the attack.  Five people were killed in the explosion at the airport in
Burgas, on the Black Sea coast, and one person died in hospital,
the Foreign Ministry in Sofia said on its website today.
Bulgarian authorities are working on the assumption that the
attack was an act of terrorism, the ministry said.  The incident comes amid heightened tensions between  Israel 
and Iran over the Islamic Republic’s nuclear program. Netanyahu
said Israel would “respond forcefully to Iranian terror” and
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said Israel will use “all means”
to find those behind the attack.  “Hezbollah, which often acts as Iran’s proxy abroad, is
likely to have been involved in the Bulgaria attack,” Yoram Schweitzer, a senior research fellow at the Institute for
National Security Studies at  Tel Aviv  University, said by phone.  Israel will file a complaint with the  United Nations
Security Council  over the attack, Deputy Foreign Minister Danny Ayalon said on Israel Army Radio today, adding that the country
will seek to boost sanctions to include a ban on travel for all
holders of Iranian passports and a ban on Iranian airlines from
landing abroad.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  condemned the attack, saying it
was “completely outrageous,” according to a statement from the
White House. The U.S. is ready to provide “whatever assistance
is necessary,” to identify the perpetrators, according to the
statement.  Israeli Warning  Israeli secret services warned their Bulgarian counterparts
of a possible terrorist attack on Israeli tourists several weeks
ago, Bulgaria on Air television reported today, citing
unidentified intelligence officials. Netanyahu said Iran had
planned similar attacks earlier this year in India, Thailand,
 Georgia ,  Kenya , Cyprus and elsewhere.  Israeli analysts have said that such a campaign may be a
response to the killings of several Iranian nuclear scientists
in recent years that Iran’s leaders have blamed on Israel.
Netanyahu noted that today is the 18th anniversary of an attack
on a Jewish  community center  in  Argentina  that Hezbollah has
been accused of helping to carry out.  Cypriot officials this month arrested a Lebanese national
allegedly planning to carry out attacks on Israeli targets
there. Israel blamed Lebanon’s Hezbollah organization, which
receives political and military support from Iran, as being
behind the plan.  ‘Fierce Response’  “There are reports that the aim in Cyprus was to bring
down an Israeli airliner, which would represent a serious
escalation on Hezbollah’s part, and will eventually bring about
a fierce Israeli response.” Schweitzer said.  Bulgarian President Rossen Plevneliev, Deputy Prime
Minister Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Shaul Camisa Raz, Israel’s
ambassador to the Balkan country, headed to the scene of the
explosion.  The bus, on which the explosion happened, was carrying 40
tourists, Bulgarian state radio reported. The blast, which also
damaged nearby vehicles, occurred as it was preparing to leave
the terminal building about half an hour after Air Via Flight
392 arrived from Tel Aviv, the Bulgarian Foreign Ministry said.  An Israeli woman who was on the bus told Israel’s Channel 2
television by phone that the blast took place immediately after
a man who wasn’t part of the tourist group entered the bus.  ‘Terrorist Act’  “This is a typical terrorist act, judging from how it was
done in a crowded place, aiming to injure as many people as
possible,” Ivan Boyadzhiev, a former anti-terrorism officer,
said on Bulgarian National Television.  Israeli medical professionals are traveling to Bulgaria to
assist the wounded, said Eli Bin, director-general of the Magen
David Adom emergency medical services agency, in an interview
with  Army Radio .  Bulgaria stepped up security at all airports and train
stations, according to the  Interior Ministry  in Sofia. Burgas
airport was closed as authorities are investigating the causes
of the blast and worked to establish the identity of the
victims, the ministry said. Two transport airplanes carrying
police equipment and medical devices and supplies have been
dispatched to Burgas, the government said.  “Bulgaria will do everything in its power to uncover the
reasons for this horrible incident,” Foreign Minister Nikolay
Mladenov said in a statement posted on the ministry’s website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  