-- Muddy Waters Report Sinks New Oriental: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-18T21:42:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/internet-adrs-rebound-on-bets-selloff-overdone-china-overnight.html
New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  sank to a five-year low, leading declines in New
York-traded Chinese stocks, after short seller Muddy Waters LLC
said financial statements at its units are fraudulent.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese shares in  New York  slid 0.2 percent to 84.73. New
Oriental tumbled 35 percent to the lowest level since 2007 after
losing 34 percent the previous day. Online travel agency
 Ctrip.com International Ltd. (CTRP)  jumped 6.8 percent, rebounding from
a three-year low.  Youku Inc. (YOKU)  and  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  jumped the
most in two months after the video website operators said
shareholders will meet next month to approve their merger.  Beijing-based New Oriental, a provider of education
services, said on July 17 the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission is investigating its accounting practices. Muddy
Waters questioned the ownership of some of New Oriental’s
schools and the consolidation of their financial statements with
the parent company. Youku, which runs the most popular video
website in China, said yesterday shareholders will meet next
month to approve its acquisition of smaller competitor Tudou.  “Any sense that there isn’t total honesty, total
transparency sends investors fleeing,”  Timothy Ghriskey , chief
investment officer at New York-based Solaris Group, which
manages about $2 billion in assets, said by phone yesterday.
“Investors are nervous in this environment. It hurts an entire
group of stocks.”  China ETF Slumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.7 percent to
$32.97. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.7 percent to
1,372.78 after U.S. housing starts increased at the fastest rate
in almost four years.  New Oriental tumbled to $9.50, the lowest price since March
6, 2007. The American depositary receipt has lost 57 percent in
two days.  The schools are “part of a substantial fraud in EDU’s
accounts,”  Carson Block , the founder of  Muddy Waters , wrote in
a report yesterday on the short seller’s website. “We believe
that as a result of our exposure of these problems with EDU’s
reporting, EDU will restate historical results and that its
auditor will resign.”  Muddy Waters sparked a 74 percent drop in Sino-Forest Corp.
before regulators suspended trading of the shares. Sino-Forest
filed for  bankruptcy protection  in March.  Recommendations Cut  Sisi Zhao, a spokeswoman at New Oriental in Beijing, didn’t
return phone calls when contacted after hours. A call to the
Beijing press office of auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA
Ltd. wasn’t returned.  Analysts at Oppenheimer Co. cut the recommendation on New
Oriental yesterday to market perform from outperform, while
Jefferies Group Inc. downgraded the company to hold from buy,
lowering its 12-month price target to $18 from $33. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. suspended their rating on the shares.  Youku surged 7.4 percent to $17.21, the biggest rally since
May 21, after losing 11 percent on July 17. Tudou advanced 9
percent to $26.53.  The statements from Youku and Tudou “are positive for
their stocks as there were people who were doubtful about the
deal,” Andy Yeung, a New York-based analyst for Oppenheimer &
Co., said by phone yesterday. “The shareholders approval is the
final step before the merger is completed.”  The merger, which was valued at $925 million when
announced, has a current value of $653 million, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Ctrip, SouFun  Ctrip, China’s biggest online travel agency based in
 Shanghai , jumped 6.5 percent to $14.51, the steepest gain in six
months. The company  will report  second-quarter financial results
on July 24 after U.S. trading closes.  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , China’s largest real estate website,
climbed 1.7 percent to $14.05, snapping a two-day decline.  China’s new home prices in June rose in the most number of
cities tracked by the government in 11 months as buyer sentiment
improved after the central bank cut  interest rates .  Prices climbed in 25 cities out of the 70 the government
looks at, the most since July last year, and the levels fell in
21 from a month earlier, according to data released by the
statistics bureau yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  