-- Italy Seeks $18 Billion Investment Ditching Offshore Ban: Energy
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-07-19T11:35:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/italy-seeks-18-billion-investment-ditching-offshore-ban-energy.html
Mario Monti ’s government is trying
to attract as much as $18 billion in investment to  Italy  by
relaxing a ban on offshore oil and gas exploration imposed by
 Silvio Berlusconi  after the 2010 Gulf of  Mexico  spill.  The premier, who must jump-start the economy to help stem
Italy’s debt crisis, last month ruled that companies such as  Eni
SpA (ENI) ,  Edison SpA (EDN)  and  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  can resume shallow-
water projects within 12 kilometers (7 miles) of the coast they
were forced to abandon in 2010. The decree needs Parliamentary
approval and the lower house is set to debate it July 23.  Monti is brushing aside opposition from environmental
lobbyists to get more crude and gas flowing to the energy-poor
nation while helping Shell, Europe’s largest oil company, pay
off its investment. Offshore output could double within a few
years, attracting 15 billion euros ($18 billion) in spending,
Economic Development Minister  Corrado Passera  said. It also may
reduce Italy’s energy bill by 6 billion euros, he said.  “The Italian government is strongly committed to resume
the domestic oil and gas production,” said Nicolo Sartori, an
energy and defense analyst at Rome’s Institute for International
Affairs. “The resumption of exploration activities won’t
represent a game changer, but it will ease a situation of high
dependence on imports and high prices.”  Spokesmen for Eni, Italy’s largest oil company, and Edison
SpA declined to comment before the legislation is decided. A
Shell spokesman wasn’t immediately available.  Import Demand  Italy imports about 90 percent of its domestic oil and
natural gas demand and is fighting to regain investor confidence
as the financial crisis threatens to cut off market funding to
the euro area’s third-biggest economy.  The Cabinet approved this month 2.7 billion euros of cuts
in funding to regional governments over the next two-and-a-half
years, including staff reductions of 10 percent. The measures
are part of Monti’s plan to reduce total government expenditure
by 26 billion euros in three years.  Monti yesterday met Italian President Giorgio Napolitano to
discuss Sicily’s financial position after expressing concern
that the region might be insolvent. The prime minister approved
an emergency loan of 400 million euros for the struggling
region.  Italian consumers burned 71.3 billion cubic meters of gas
in 2011, ranking ahead of all European nations by that measure
except for the U.K. and  Germany , according to a  BP Plc (BP/)  survey.  New Projects Disallowed  The decree would allow existing offshore projects to start
again, without allowing new ones. It’s enmeshed in the Monti
government’s broader legislation to spark economic growth,
making it more difficult to be shot down by the chamber of
deputies next week or later in the Senate, which must approve
the decree by Aug. 25 or it will expire.  “It’s perfectly achievable,” said Brian O’Cathain, Chief
Executive Officer of  Petroceltic International Plc (PCI) , which drills
for hydrocarbons in Italy. “There’s an enormous gas and oil
potential in Italy, and the current government is quite keen on
developing its indigenous resources.”  The Mediterranean country’s 2010 oil output reached 5.7
million metric tons, the third-largest among European Union
nations after the U.K. and  Denmark , according to the
 International Energy Agency .  The ban was imposed by ex-Prime Minister Berlusconi’s
center-right coalition in the summer of 2010. Removing some of
its restrictions could bring in as many as 25,000 jobs to the
country with a 10.1 percent unemployment rate, Passera has said.  The decree has been criticized by analysts for not going
far enough in attracting investors because it doesn’t fix
Italy’s complicated and sometimes arbitrary regulatory
environment. It can take several years to get approval from
local authorities before exploration can resume, said Roberto Ranieri, energy analyst at Caboto Sim SpA in Milan.  Environmental Opposition  The government is up against Italy’s environmental groups
including Legambiente, which claims that the country’s offshore
oil and gas supplies are too small to exploit and risk a
disaster like when the Macondo well exploded in the Gulf,
causing the largest U.S. offshore oil spill.  “The government is just doing a favor to individual  oil
companies ,” Stefano Ciafani, Legambiente’s vice chairman, said
in a phone interview. “The country doesn’t need it.”  Italy’s reaction to the spill at BP Macondo well was
“totally disproportionate,” Petroceltic’s O’Cathain said. “Up
until June 2010 the Italian state was encouraging direct foreign
investment in oil and gas. It wasn’t reasonable to suddenly
cancel all the ongoing projects and have those investors incur
serious losses.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Prague at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  