-- Mitt Romney’s Campaign Should Have Faith in His Faith
-- B y   M i c h a e l   K i n s l e y
-- 2012-07-18T22:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/mitt-romney-s-campaign-should-have-faith-in-his-faith.html
Mitt Romney  planned to run for U.S.
president as a successful businessman who would bring some hard-
headed business common sense and smarts to the job of running
the badly dysfunctional federal government.  Like Senator  John Kerry  in 2004, Romney must now be puzzled
about how what he thought was his strongest asset (in Kerry’s
case, his honorable service in the  Vietnam War ; in Romney’s, his
successful career at Bain Capital LLC) could have molted into a
liability. The answer is in part skilled demagoguery from the
other side (yes, I mean you, Mr. President) and in part deserved
punishment for overplaying your hand (military experience in
Kerry’s case, transferable business skills in Romney’s).  If he can’t run exclusively as a business genius, Romney
will have another problem that otherwise might have gone away:
People just don’t like him. If he was going to restore the
economy and America’s place in the world, they wouldn’t care. If
he can’t guarantee delivery, his apparent inability to connect
with people on an emotional level becomes much more important.  People close to Romney swear that he’s both a good person
and a great guy, and that ought to be easy enough to believe. So
what’s his problem? Is he too handsome? Does he look too much
 like a president  ever to be elected president? Has he spent too
many years in the high-finance cocoon to know how to talk with
people outside it? I don’t know. Whatever the cause, I have the
solution. Romney had it in his hands, and threw it away.  Kennedy’s Path  In 2007, trying to clear away the underbrush for his 2008
presidential bid, Romney gave a closely watched speech he called
“ Faith in America ,” about being a Mormon and running for
president. He consciously followed the lead of  John F. Kennedy 
in his  famous 1960 speech  to the ministers of Houston about
being a Catholic aspiring to the highest office.  Like Kennedy, Romney argued that politics and religion were
separate spheres. He pledged to be president of all the people,
not just his co-religionists. He said, with Kennedy, that if an
irreconcilable conflict arose between his core religious beliefs
and his obligations as president, he would resign before
betraying either. And he said that for a presidential candidate
to go into any details about his faith -- to “describe and
explain his church’s distinctive doctrines” to the press and
public -- would violate the spirit of the constitutional
separation of church and state. In other words: My  Mormonism  is
private, and has no relevance to the presidential campaign or
the presidency.  That may have been good enough for 1960, but not for 2012,
when the deepest reaches of any candidate’s psyche are
considered fair game for commentary and analysis. Mormons
believe some  pretty wacky things  (as do other Christians, Jews
and Muslims -- but they have different odd beliefs, ones that
have been pre-approved). Furthermore, Romney is a much more
devout Mormon than Kennedy was a Catholic.  The important point is that Romney may be a fool even to
want to bottle up his faith and pack it away for the duration,
because it could be the best thing about him. It certainly
humanizes him -- which he needs. This occurred to me while
reading Walter Kirn’s wonderful essay in the current New
Republic about  growing up Mormon .  Even though he has long since left the church, and never
came close to observing all its precepts, Kirn admires Mormonism
as “our country’s longest experiment with communitarian
idealism, promoting an ethic of frontier-era burden-sharing that
has been lost in contemporary America, with increasingly dire
social consequences.” Kirn offers several dramatic examples of
extraordinary kindnesses the Mormon church and its members have
done, in the spirit of community, for his own family and
himself.  Best Attribute  The article certainly opened my eyes, and Romney is not
just a member but  a leader  of this organization. Romney
shouldn’t be pushing his Mormonism into a corner and hoping
people will forget about it. He should be making it a central
part of his campaign. It’s far and away the best thing I know
about him.  At the moment, all that most people know about Romney the
man is that once in  high school  he led  a gang  that bullied a gay
student, and that his wife has  multiple sclerosis . And they’re
turned off by his apparent lack of any inner life. But maybe he
does have an inner life after all. Why in the world would he try
to hide it?  (Michael Kinsley is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a pricey new weapon for
 fighting AIDS  and on the Pentagon’s upcoming  budget war ;
 Caroline Baum  on  term limits  for Congress;  Ezra Klein  on the
 Romney who could’ve been ; Amir Sufi on  eminent domain as an
answer  to housing debt; Nell Minow on the  zombies  hanging around
corporate boardrooms.  To contact the writer of this article:
 Michael Kinsley  at  mkinsley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net . 