-- Mizuho to Pay $128 Million in U.S. Case Over CDO ‘Dummy’ Assets
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-07-19T00:37:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/mizuho-to-pay-128-million-in-sec-case-over-cdo-dummy-assets.html
Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  agreed
to pay $128 million to settle U.S. regulatory claims that it
used “dummy assets” to inflate the credit ratings of a
financial product tied to subprime mortgages as the housing
market deteriorated in 2007.  The U.S. brokerage unit of  Japan ’s third-biggest bank by
market value gave  Standard & Poor’s  inaccurate information about
the assets backing a $1.6 billion collateralized debt obligation
that it was structuring, the Securities and Exchange Commission
said in a statement yesterday. Once the inaccurate portfolio was
rated, Mizuho used the misleading ratings to sell the CDO, known
as Delphinus CDO 2007-1, which defaulted in 2008.  Delaware Asset Advisers, which managed the Delphinus
collateral, agreed to pay about $4.8 million to settle related
claims, the SEC said.  The settlement is the latest of several SEC cases involving
complex investments tied to souring mortgages that helped
exacerbate losses during financial-market turmoil in 2008. The
agency has brought similar actions against banks including
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)   “This case demonstrates once again that bankers and market
participants who embrace a ‘get-the-deal-done-at-all-costs’
strategy will be identified, charged, and punished,” SEC
Enforcement Director  Robert Khuzami  said in a statement. “This
is a constant theme throughout the many SEC enforcement actions
arising out of the financial crisis, and is one that everyone
involved in securities transactions and our financial markets
would be well-advised to respect.”  Conduct ‘Isolated’  Mizuho cooperated with the SEC’s investigation and the
conduct in question “was isolated to a few persons,” the
Tokyo-based bank said in a statement.  Shares of Mizuho rose 2 yen, or 1.6 percent, to 130 yen as
of 9:31 a.m. on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The  Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK) 
climbed 1.3 percent.  Alexander Rekeda, who headed the group that structured the
deal, and Xavier Capdepon, who modeled the transaction for the
rating companies, each agreed to pay $125,000 and to be
suspended from the securities industry for 12 months, the SEC
said. Gwen Snorteland, who was responsible for structuring
Delphinus, also agreed to a one-year suspension from the
industry. In settling the claims, they didn’t admit or deny the
SEC’s allegations.  Steven Kobre, an attorney for Rekeda, said in a statement
that the agreement allows his client to close the matter
“without protracted litigation that could take years to
resolve.”  Snorteland “is pleased with the settlement,”  Evan Barr ,
her attorney at Steptoe & Johnson LLP, said in a statement.  Daniel Horwitz, an attorney for Capdepon, declined to
comment and a phone call to Delaware Asset Advisers wasn’t
immediately returned.  S&P, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos., wasn’t accused of
wrongdoing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  