-- J.C. Penney’s Johnson Vows to Stick to ‘Everyday Low Prices’
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-07-18T20:24:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/j-c-penney-s-johnson-vows-to-stick-to-everyday-low-prices-1-.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  Chief Executive
Officer  Ron Johnson , reiterating that his turnaround of the
department store chain will take four years, said he’s sticking
with his strategy for “everyday low prices.”  “We do not believe in marking up goods beyond a fair
profit, we will not mark things off 10, 15, 20 percent off, we
do not do that type of business,” Johnson said today at the
Fortune Brainstorm Tech conference in Aspen, Colorado. He cited
the effectiveness of the strategy for Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and
 Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and for goods such as gasoline.  Johnson, the former retailing chief of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , has
worked to transform J.C. Penney stores into collections of
branded shops and instituted a three-tiered pricing system to
wean customers off discounts. The strategy has met with
resistance from shoppers who crave coupons or are unfamiliar
with the new look, contributing to a 20 percent decline in
first-quarter  sales .  J.C. Penney, based in Plano, Texas,  rose  2.4 percent to
$19.71 at the close in New York. The shares have declined 44
percent this year.  Johnson today recalled that  Mickey Drexler , the CEO of J.
Crew Group Inc., who engineered a turnaround at Gap Inc. earlier
in his career, advised him to ignore criticism and to “put your
head down and do what you know how to do.”  “It’s been interesting for me, watching all these
analysts, they think it’s going to change overnight,” Johnson
said. “We all forget these things but transformation takes
time, it’s not a sprint.”  Martha Stewart  The chain’s plans to open more stores within its stores hit
a snag last week, when a New York state Supreme Court judge
granted  Macy’s Inc. (M)  a preliminary injunction that will block
 Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc. (MSO)  from working toward making,
marketing and selling Martha Stewart-branded products in J.C.
Penney stores.  Johnson, who was  originally  slated to conduct the
presentation with  Martha Stewart  today, spoke alone.  J.C. Penney’s second-quarter sales trends may have softened
from the first quarter because of an “an inconsistent marketing
message,” Deborah Weinswig, an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in New
York, said in a note to investors yesterday. While Weinswig
retained her “buy” rating on the stock, she removed J.C.
Penney from the bank’s top picks list, saying that near-term
challenges have been greater than expected.  Johnson told the audience today that they’ll be hearing
“really soon” about a more simplified pricing strategy.  “Our pricing’s been kind of confusing, our marketing
overreached, so we’re going to bring that back,” said Johnson,
who has been CEO since Nov. 1. “We’ll really honor the everyday
price in a different way.”  J.C. Penney, with more than 1,000 locations and $17.3
billion in sales last year, is expected to report second-quarter
earnings on Aug. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in  New York  at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  