-- Japan Bank Lobby to Consider Review of Tibor Reference Banks
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-07-18T04:10:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/japan-banking-lobby-to-consider-review-of-tibor-reference-banks.html
The Japanese Bankers Association is
considering a review of as many as 16 banks to confirm that they
are following the lobbying group’s guidelines for submitting
yen-denominated  Tokyo  interbank offered rates.  As many as 15 reference banks may be reviewed for how they
submit their euro-yen Tibor rates, said Hisanao Aoki, a
spokesman for the association.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month was fined 290 million pounds ($453
million) for rigging London interbank rates, prompting
authorities in Europe, Asia and the U.S. to broaden inquiries
into manipulation of benchmark gauges for borrowing costs.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  in December were ordered by Japanese
regulators to suspend some operations after the banks’ staff
were found to have attempted to influence Tibor rates.  “There’s growing pressure from Japanese lawmakers on the
banking industry to determine and confirm that Tibor has been
properly submitted and set without any wrongdoing,” Shinichi Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc.
“If any bank is found to have attempted manipulation of the
rate, it would be a huge problem.”  The Asahi newspaper reported the Japanese association’s
plan earlier today.  Rate Setters  The reference banks, including the lending units of
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Deutsche Bank AG, are responsible for submitting interbank
offered rates to the association, which compiles them and sets
the benchmark, according to the lobbying group’s  website .  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan tomorrow plans to call
on the banking lobby to explain how Tibor is set, lawmaker
Tsutomu Okubo said yesterday. The former Morgan Stanley banker
is heading a panel examining financial firms.  Former association chairman Katsunori Nagayasu said in
February that the group may take measures to improve the way it
compiles the nation’s interbank lending rate following the
Financial Services Agency’s penalties for Citigroup and UBS. Any
changes would be based on guidance from investigators, he said
at the time.  Yasuhiro Sato, who became president of the association in
April, is scheduled to meet with reporters tomorrow afternoon in
Tokyo for a monthly press conference. Sato is also president of
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s third-largest lender by
market value.  Global Investigations  In South Korea antitrust regulators are investigating some
brokerages for allegedly colluding to keep a key money-market
rate artificially high, press officials at three brokerages with
knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  South Korea’s 91-day certificate-of-deposit rate is a
benchmark for banks’ variable rate for lending and borrowing as
well as for interest swaps and floating yields for bonds.  In the U.S.,  attorneys general  in at least five states have
begun investigations related to alleged manipulation of the
Libor rate, adding to probes by U.S. and U.K. authorities.  The investigations are being conducted by New York,
Connecticut, Massachusetts, Florida and  Maryland .  Barclays traders who allegedly manipulated rates from 2005
to 2007 may be charged by U.S. prosecutors before Sept. 3,
according to a person familiar with the U.S. Justice
Department’s investigation. The scandal led to the resignation
of  Robert Diamond  as the bank’s chief executive officer.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, UBS AG, and Lloyds
Banking Group Plc are among lenders facing inquiries over
alleged rigging of Libor, the benchmark  interest rate  for
financial products valued at $360 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  