-- Japan’s Sumitomo Said in Talks With Turkey to Expand Bank
-- B y   E r c a n   E r s o y   a n d   T a k a k o   T a n i g u c h i
-- 2012-07-18T09:43:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/japan-s-sumitomo-said-in-talks-with-turkey-to-expand-bank-1-.html
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group
Inc. (8316) , Japan’s second-largest bank by market value, is in talks
to expand in  Turkey  as an accelerating economy stokes demand for
bank services, two people familiar with the situation said.  Sumitomo Mitsui and the Ankara-based Investment Support &
Promotion  Agency  are working on an accord for the Tokyo-based
lender to expand from a representative office of its unit
Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp. in Istanbul, said the people,
declining to be identified because the process is confidential.  Japan’s biggest lenders are looking abroad for growth as
low  interest rates  and a shrinking population hamper domestic
loan profitability.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306)  said
yesterday it will apply for a bank license next month, joining
rivals such as  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in seeking to take
advantage of Turkish economic growth of 8.5 percent in 2011.  Sumitomo plans to help finance Japanese companies’
investments in Turkey, according to the people. The bank may
also seek a license to set up a unit in the country, one of the
people said. Mizuho Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd., a unit of
Japan’s third-largest lender by market value, also wants to get
a license in Turkey or acquire a stake in a Turkish lender,
Mizuho Chief Executive Officer  Yasuhiro Sato  said June 4.  Takashi Morita, a spokesman for SMBC in  Tokyo , said nothing
has been decided. Telephone calls to the Turkish investment
agency, known as Ispat, weren’t immediately answered.  Capital Threshold  Turkey’s banking regulator doesn’t plan to cut a minimum
threshold of $300 million  capital investment  to apply for a
banking license, Mukim Oztekin, head of the regulator, told
reporters in Ankara today. “We want a healthy growth in the
banking industry and will continue to give licenses to
institutions with capital power,” he said.  The banking industry, which had an  asset size  of 1.27
trillion liras ($702 billion) at the end of May, increased at an
annual average of 10.5 percent in the past decade, he said.  Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi  will apply next month for a
banking license with an $300 million investment plan and aims to
finance as much as 85 percent of Japanese firms in Turkey as the
number of the nation’s companies there “is expected to triple
in five to seven years from 140,” Shoji Nakano, the lender’s
head for Europe,  Middle East  and  Africa , said July 16 in
Istanbul.  The lender may also offer credit to “non-Japanese blue-
chip companies,” he said.  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group fell 1.2 percent to 2,494
yen today in Tokyo trade, in a four-day falling streak. Mizuho
Financial Group was unchanged at 128 yen and Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group fell 1 percent to 373 yen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul at 
 eersoy@bloomberg.net ; Takako Taniguchi in Tokyo at 
3048 or  ttaniguchi4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net ;
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  