-- Japan Crude Tanker Signals Iran After International Absence
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-07-18T15:55:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/japan-crude-tanker-signals-iran-after-international-absence-1-.html
Iran ’s largest crude-export terminal
is poised to receive its first internationally owned tanker in a
month, ending an absence caused by European Union curbs on
insuring ships that extended to almost all the fleet.  The Ryuho Maru, now insured by the Japanese state, will
arrive at Kharg Island tomorrow, according to ship-tracking data
compiled by Bloomberg. The signals are entered by vessels’
captains. A non-Iranian tanker last called on June 19. All
tankers calling since then have been operated by Tehran-based
NITC. It was the first such four-week period since at least the
start of the year, when the only vessels to go to Kharg Island
were controlled by NITC.  The ban by the 27-nation EU extends to insuring vessels
carrying Iranian oil, and the concentration of the maritime-
 insurance industry  in  London  means the curbs apply to almost all
tankers. NITC has too few carriers to haul all of Iran’s
exports, according to Dahlman Rose & Co., an investment bank in
 New York . Shipments by OPEC’s second-biggest producer are at 1
million barrels a day or less, more than 50 percent below last
year’s average, Barclays Plc estimates.  “This is a good indicator of how effective the European
embargo has been in impacting Iranian crude exports, especially
on the shipping-insurance front,” Miswin Mahesh, a London-based
commodities analyst at Barclays who has been tracking Iranian
oil flows since the ban began, said by e-mail today. “It also
suggests Iran’s own fleet is now close to full utilization.”  NITC Blocked  Twenty-six of 39 NITC tankers tracked by Bloomberg signaled
destinations in the past week, compared with 25 that did so in
the same period to July 11, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Fourteen of the 26 are bound for Iranian ports, three
for  China , two for  Egypt  and two more for  India .  The U.S. Treasury Department said July 12 it would block
transactions through the country’s financial system involving
NITC and 27 affiliated entities. Government-linked NITC is
trying to evade sanctions by repainting or reflagging its ships
and disabling tracking gear, the Treasury said in a statement.  India, Iran’s third-largest buyer, asked the Persian Gulf
country to arrange to transport and insure its cargoes. Iran
offered to do the same for  South Korea  after the Asian nation
said it would have to halt shipments because of Western
sanctions. China’s largest ship owner said it lacks government
guarantees to ship Iranian oil, Lloyd’s List reported today.  Insurance Terminations  The Ryuho Maru, owned by Tokyo-based  Iino Kaiun Kaisha
Ltd. (9119) , will load about 1.7 million barrels of crude, three
officials from refiners and  Japan ’s trade ministry said last
week. A person who answered a call to the company’s investor-
relations department outside normal office hours said no one was
available to comment.  Oil tankers are losing insurance because of EU sanctions
against Iran, according to Andrew Bardot, secretary and
executive officer of the International Group of P&I Clubs, whose
members cover 95 percent of the global fleet of the ships.  Some vessels had their coverage “terminated” as a result
of the EU embargo that took effect July 1, Bardot said by e-mail
today, declining to elaborate. The group’s 13 members, who
follow EU law, covered all but 5 percent of the world’s tankers
against risks such as spills and collisions before the sanctions
began.  International Group  members stopped covering shipments from
Iran after the EU banned the purchase, transportation, financing
and insuring of the nation’s crude. Burning ship fuel made from
Iranian oil could also infringe the ban.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  