-- Japanese, Korean Banks Face Scrutiny Over Interest Rates
-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-07-18T11:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/japanese-korean-banks-face-scrutiny-over-interest-rates.html
Japan’s banking lobby said it may
review lenders’  interest-rate  submissions and South Korean
regulators started a probe into possible collusion in money
markets, amid widening global scrutiny of key lending rates
following the Libor scandal in the U.K.  The Japanese Bankers Association said it’s considering
looking at as many as 16 banks to confirm that they follow
guidelines for submitting yen-denominated  Tokyo  interbank
offered rates. In  South Korea , the antitrust agency expanded an
investigation today into whether local brokerages kept
certificate of deposit rates artificially high.  Regulators globally are trying to restore investor
confidence in benchmark borrowing costs after U.S. and U.K.
authorities found that  Barclays Plc (BARC)  employees rigged London
interbank lending rates, leading to a record fine of 290 million
pounds ($453 million) levied against the British bank last
month.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  in December were ordered by
Japanese regulators to suspend some operations after the banks’
staff were found to have attempted to influence the Tokyo
interbank offered rate, or Tibor.  “There’s growing pressure from Japanese lawmakers on the
banking industry to determine and confirm that Tibor has been
properly submitted and set without any wrongdoing,” said
Shinichiro Nakamura, a Tokyo-based analyst at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “If any bank is found to have attempted
manipulation of the rate, it would be a huge problem.”  Korea Probe  The Monetary Authority of Singapore said today it will also
look into how banks are setting “key market interest rate
benchmarks” amid similar reviews by regulators in several
international financial centers.  South Korea’s  Fair Trade Commission  inspected 10 brokerages
yesterday and nine banks today to see if there was collusion on
certificate of deposit rates, the agency said in an e-mailed
statement. The FTC will closely review the inspection results,
it said without identifying firms under investigation.  Commission officials, who visited some local brokerages
yesterday amid a probe into the money-market rates, met today
with executives at the banking units of  Hana Financial Group
Inc. (086790) ,  KB Financial Group Inc. (105560) ,  Shinhan Financial Group Co. (055550)  and
Woori Finance Holdings Co. at their headquarters, four bank
officials briefed on the matter said.  South Korea’s 91-day  certificate of deposit  rate is a
benchmark for banks’ variable rate for lending and borrowing as
well as for interest swaps or floating yields for bonds. Quotes
are collected twice a day by the Korea Financial Investment
Association, or KOFIA, from 10 brokerages. The highest and
lowest two are eliminated and the remaining are averaged.  Artificially High  Some brokerages are under investigation by the commission
on whether they collaborated to keep the certificate of deposit
rates artificially high, press officials at three brokerages
with knowledge of the matter said yesterday. The 91-day
certificate of deposit rate had remained unchanged at 3.54
percent from April 9 to July 12, when it fell by 27 basis points
to 3.27 percent after the central bank unexpectedly reduced
borrowing costs, according to data compiled by KOFIA.  In Japan, along with a check of yen-denominated Tibor
submissions, as many as 15 reference banks may be reviewed for
how they submit their euro-yen Tibor rates, said Hisanao Aoki, a
spokesman for the banking group. The Asahi newspaper reported
the association’s plan earlier today.  The reference banks, including the lending units of
 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
Deutsche Bank AG, are responsible for submitting interbank
offered rates to the Japanese Bankers Association, which
compiles them and sets the benchmark, according to the lobbying
group’s  website .  Explaining Tibor  The ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan plans to call on the
banking lobby tomorrow to explain how Tibor is set, lawmaker
Tsutomu Okubo said yesterday. The former Morgan Stanley banker
is heading a panel examining financial firms.  Former association chairman Katsunori Nagayasu said in
February that the group may take measures to improve the way it
compiles the nation’s interbank lending rate following the
Financial Services Agency’s penalties for Citigroup and UBS. Any
changes would be based on guidance from investigators, he said
at the time.  Global Investigations  Yasuhiro Sato, who became president of the association in
April, is scheduled to meet with reporters tomorrow afternoon in
Tokyo for a monthly press conference. Sato is also president of
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411) , Japan’s third-largest lender by
market value.  In the U.S.,  attorneys general  in at least five states have
begun probes related to alleged manipulation of the Libor rate,
adding to probes by federal authorities. The investigations are
being conducted by New York,  Connecticut ,  Massachusetts , Florida
and  Maryland .  Barclays traders who allegedly manipulated rates from 2005
to 2007 may be charged by U.S. prosecutors before Sept. 3,
according to a person familiar with the U.S. Justice
Department’s investigation. The scandal led to the resignation
of  Robert Diamond  as the bank’s chief executive officer.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, UBS and Lloyds Banking
Group Plc are among lenders facing inquiries over alleged
rigging of Libor, the benchmark interest rate for financial
products valued at $360 trillion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  