-- Jenner & Block, Ropes & Gray, Crowell: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-07-18T11:23:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/jenner-block-ropes-gray-crowell-business-of-law.html
Robert Byman, the Jenner & Block LLP
partner who represented Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s
bankruptcy examiner Anton Valukas, is conducting the National
Futures Association’s internal review of its auditing procedures
and its oversight of bankrupt Peregrine Financial Group Inc.  “I’ll be heading up our team but it’s an internal matter
and I can’t comment further,” Byman said in a telephone
interview yesterday.  The NFA on July 9 announced at least $200 million in client
funds were unaccounted for at Cedar Falls, Iowa-based Peregrine.  Russell Wasendorf Sr., the firm’s chairman and chief
executive officer, attempted suicide that day and was later
arrested. Wasendorf had written a signed statement that he
committed fraud for two decades, according to a criminal
complaint filed in federal court in Cedar Rapids,  Iowa .  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission sued
Peregrine in federal court in Chicago on July 10, accusing
Wasendorf and his firm of misappropriating client funds.  Peregrine filed for Chapter 7 court protection in  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court  in Chicago on July 10.  Larry Dyekman, a spokesman for the NFA, declined to comment
on the review of Peregrine. In a statement yesterday, the
association said it would implement any necessary changes that
would improve fraud detection.  The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-131, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids). The
bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group Inc.,
12-27488, U.S.  Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of Illinois
(Chicago).  Deals  State Street Buys Goldman Sachs Unit as Revenue Declines  Ropes & Gray LLP advised  State Street Corp. (STT) , the third-
largest custody bank, which agreed to buy the hedge-fund
administration unit of  Goldman Sachs (GS)  Group Inc. to boost growth
as second-quarter revenue fell amid declining global markets and
record-low  interest rates . Sullivan & Cromwell LLP advised
Goldman Sachs.  State Street agreed to pay $550 million in cash for the
Goldman Sachs unit to become the world’s largest servicer of
alternative assets such as  hedge funds , the Boston-based company
said yesterday. State Street fell as much as 5.9 percent in New
York, the most in seven months, as declining assets and fees
spurred a 1.9 percent drop in revenue to $2.43 billion.  The attorneys from Ropes & Gray were: Christopher Henry,
Brian McCabe, Eric Elfman, William Jewett, Mark Bellomy and
Michael McFalls.  The S&C New York-based team includes financial institutions
M&A partner Mitchell Eitel, mergers and acquisitions partner
Brian Hamilton, executive compensation and benefits partner
Matthew Friestedt and tax partner  Andrew Mason .  Custody banks have struggled to increase profits as the
 Federal Reserve  has held interest rates near zero since December
2008 and falling stock markets worldwide have cut the assets
that the firms oversee for clients. State Street Chief Executive
Officer Joseph Hooley has cut more than 2,200 jobs in the past
two years to contain expenses, raised the company’s dividend in
April to boost shareholder returns and searched for acquisitions
such as the Goldman Sachs unit to increase assets.  “We’re all grinding through this difficult environment,”
Hooley said yesterday in a telephone interview. “We’ve
positioned ourselves in this cycle so that a combination of a
less risky business model and higher capacity give us the
opportunity to pounce on acquisitions when they make sense.”  The acquisition of the Goldman Sachs hedge-fund servicing
unit adds $200 billion in assets under custody, and gives State
Street $877 billion in alternative funds under administration.  The company added $133 billion in custody assets through
new client deals in the quarter. That’s down from an average of
$327 billion in the previous five quarters.  For more, click here.  Ardagh to Buy Anchor Glass for Total Cash of $880 Million  Shearman & Sterling LLP acted as legal counsel to Ardagh
Group SA, the packaging company, which agreed to buy U.S.-based
peer Anchor Glass Container Corp. from Wayzata Investment
Partners LLC funds for $880 million in cash. Akin Gump Strauss
Hauer & Feld LLP acted as legal counsel for Anchor.  Shearman lawyers included New York mergers and acquisitions
partner Christa D’Alimonte; London capital markets partner
Apostolos Gkoutzinis; London finance partner  Peter Hayes ; New
York executive compensation and employee benefits partner Doreen Lilienfeld; Washington tax partner Michael Shulman; and New York
real estate partner Malcolm Montgomery.  The Akin Gump deal team was led by Kerry Berchem, a partner
and co-head of the firm’s corporate practice. Additional
partners include Joseph Ginsberg, real estate; Ron Grabov-
Nardini, tax; Alice Hsu, securities; David Quigley
environmental; Anthony Swisher, antitrust; Mark Volow, finance;
Richard Rabin, labor; and Rolf Zaiss, executive compensation.  Ardagh plans to raise $920 million equivalent to fund the
purchase and refinance almost all of Anchor’s existing debt, the
Luxembourg-based company said in an e-mail statement. Ardagh is
“committed to raising equity as soon as is practicable” after
the transaction is completed and intends to seek a public
listing.  The acquisition, which is subject to U.S. regulatory
approval, will give Ardagh a 23 percent market share in the
U.S., it said. Anchor is the third-largest glass container maker
in the U.S.  Citigroup Inc. acted as financial adviser to Ardagh and
provided “committed financing” for the acquisition, Ardagh
said. Jefferies & Co. is financial adviser to Anchor.  Thermo Fisher Agrees to Purchase One Lambda for $925 Million  Thermo Fisher  Scientific Inc., the world’s second-largest
maker of health-care equipment, agreed to acquire closely held
One Lambda Inc. for about $925 million to expand in specialty
diagnostics.  Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale & Dorr LLP is serving as legal
counsel to Thermo Fisher. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton
LLP is serving as legal counsel to One Lambda.  JP Morgan Securities LLC is acting as financial adviser to
Thermo Fisher. Perella Weinberg Partners is acting as financial
adviser to One Lambda.  Partner Hal Leibowitz, vice chairman of WilmerHale’s
corporate and transactional department, led the team advising
Thermo Fisher on the acquisition. Other members of the
WilmerHale team included partners Keith Barnett, real estate;
Robert Burke, tax; Nan Giner, private client; Jeffrey Hermanson,
corporate; Belinda Juran, IP and licensing; and Amy Null,
benefits.  The partners on the Sheppard Mullin deal team included Jon Newby, corporate; John Bonn, tax; and Robert L. Magielnicki Sr.,
antitrust.  Latham & Watkins LLP represents Perella Weinberg Partners
with a corporate team led from the firm’s Orange County,
California, office by partners Charles Ruck and Scott Shean.  Thermo Fisher will acquire Canoga Park, California-based
One Lambda’s technology for determining what human leukocyte
antigens are present in tissues, a process needed for successful
transplants and determining paternity. Thermo Fisher, based in
Waltham, Massachusetts, beat out other bidders, said people
familiar with the transaction who asked not to be identified as
the process is private.  For more, click here.  Moves  Justice Department  Lawyer Joins  Baker & McKenzie  in Washington  Former U.S. Justice Department attorney Jonathan C. Poling
joined Baker & McKenzie LLP’s Washington office as a partner in
the trade-compliance practice.  A trial attorney with the Justice Department’s National
Security Division, Counterespionage Section, Poling has
prosecuted dozens of export control, counter proliferation and
trade-related cases involving violations of the Arms Export
Control Act, International Emergency Economic Powers Act, and
fraud and  money laundering  statutes, the firm said. He also
worked with the Justice Department’s National Export Coordinator
and interacted with licensing agencies and civil enforcement
authorities on numerous trade matters.  “At a time of increasing focus on trade compliance,
Jonathan offers unique insight into government enforcement
proceedings,” Miguel Noyola, chairman of the firm’s North
American international commercial practice, said in a statement.  Baker & McKenzie has more than 3,800 lawyers and more than
5,800 professional staff in 70 offices in 43 countries.  Crowell Hire Two Tax Controversy and Litigation Partners  Crowell & Moring LLP added two tax controversy and
litigation partners to the firm’s tax group in Washington. David
B. Blair, who joins from Miller & Chevalier, and David J.
Fischer, from Cooley LLP, advise domestic and international
clients in the areas of federal tax litigation and controversy,
with a specific focus on  transfer pricing  and international tax
issues, the firm said.  “Their work involving the application of the economic
substance doctrine, partnership-level litigation, and
alternative dispute resolution with the IRS, as well as managing
the overall tax needs of multi-national corporations, makes them
an excellent fit for our group and clients,” Harold J. Heltzer,
chairman of Crowell & Moring’s tax group, said in a statement.  A former trial attorney for the Tax Division of the U.S.
Justice Department, Blair’s experience includes representing
companies in the petroleum, retail, timber, pharmaceutical,
cosmetics, government contracting and chemical industries, the
firm said.  Fischer represents companies and individuals in tax
matters. His clients include companies in the semiconductor,
software, petroleum, mining, automotive, and banking and finance
industries.  Crowell & Moring has about 500 lawyers representing clients
in litigation and arbitration, regulatory and transactional
matters. The firm has six U.S. offices, as well as offices in
London and Brussels.  Dechert Expands Tbilisi Corporate Practice  Dechert LLP said Archil Giorgadze joined the firm’s
corporate and securities practice as a national partner in its
Tbilisi office. Giorgadze previously was chief executive officer
at JSC Nenskra, a unit of the state-owned JSC Partnership Fund
established to develop a hydropower plant project in Georgia,
the firm said.  Before that, he held several positions within the Ministry
of Justice of Georgia, according to the firm. Giorgadze has
expertise in advising energy-sector clients on  project
financing , mergers and acquisitions and regulatory matters.  “Since opening our office in Tbilisi, we have been
determined to continue expanding our practice in Georgia, a
growing and increasingly important emerging market, especially
in the energy, project finance and inward investment sectors
where Archil has special know-how,” Louise Roman Bernstein,
managing partner of the Tbilisi office, said in a statement.  Dechert has lawyers at 26 offices in the U.S., Europe and
Asia.  Litigation  Rajaratnam Is Silent in Tax-Shelter Deposition, Lawyer Says  Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam declined to
answer any questions during a deposition at the federal prison
where he’s serving an 11-year sentence for  securities fraud  and
conspiracy, said Howard Kleinhendler, an attorney representing
plaintiffs in a lawsuit.  Rajaratnam, convicted last year of directing the largest
hedge fund insider-trading scheme in U.S. history, was
interviewed June 16 for about an hour and 45 minutes at the
Federal Medical Center Devens in Ayers, Massachusetts. The
deposition stems from a case involving a  tax shelter  Rajaratnam
had invested in. He isn’t a defendant in the lawsuit.  He refused to answer any of the more than 100 questions he
was asked, invoking his right against self-incrimination under
the U.S. Constitution’s Fifth Amendment, according to
Kleinhendler, of Wachtel Masyr & Missry LLP in New York.  “He looked good,” Kleinhendler said yesterday in a phone
interview, adding that Rajaratnam appeared to have lost weight
since the last time he saw him, in 2007. Rajaratnam, 55, has
said in court papers that he has health problems including
diabetes and will probably need dialysis and a kidney
transplant.  New York state Supreme Court Justice Eileen Bransten in
March ordered Rajaratnam to answer questions from Diversified
Group, a tax-shelter promoter, as part of the 2010 lawsuit.
Samidh Guha, a lawyer representing Rajaratnam, had opposed the
request, saying his client would invoke his right against self-
incrimination.  Guha, of Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP in New York,
declined to comment on the deposition.  Rajaratnam and his wife, Asha, along with Galleon Group co-
founder Gary Rosenbach and his wife, Susan, sued Diversified in
2005, saying they were tricked into investing in an illegal tax
shelter. They sought to recover at least $15 million in
interest, penalties and fees that Rajaratnam and Rosenbach paid
to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service. They didn’t seek to
recover the taxes.  Rajaratnam and Rosenbach won a 2009 arbitrator’s decision
against Diversified and its president for $5.8 million,
according to court records. Diversified and its founder were
found to have committed fraud in the marketing, promotion and
implementation of the tax shelter.  In 2010, Diversified sued a tax attorney and three
consulting firms over the structuring of the shelter, the case
for which Rajaratnam was deposed.  Bransten also granted an unopposed request from
Diversified’s lawyers to question Rosenbach, who lives in Vail,
Colorado. Rosenbach will be deposed next month in New York,
Kleinhendler said.  The case is Diversified Group Inc. v. Marcum & Kleigman
LLP, 450286/2010, New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan).  News  JPMorgan Can’t Justify Withholding Probe E-Mails, FERC Says  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  can’t show that 25 e-mails sought in
an investigation of possible energy-market manipulation contain
advice from lawyers and should remain out of reach of
regulators, the U.S.  Federal Energy Regulatory Commission  told a
federal magistrate.  The agency, in a filing yesterday in U.S. District Court in
Washington, said that JPMorgan made identical attorney-client
privilege claims for 28 other e-mails that were later turned
over to regulators. Some of the earlier e-mails that JPMorgan
claimed contained legal advice were messages that said “Great
job compliance,” “Are you being sarcastic?” and “Plse call
ASAP,” according to the filing.  “JPMorgan’s current privilege claims are the same as those
it improperly made about unprivileged documents,” Thomas Olson
and Vivian Chum, lawyers for the agency, wrote in the filing.  FERC sued JPMorgan on July 2 to release the e-mails in an
investigation of possible manipulation of power markets in
California and the Midwest by J.P. Morgan Ventures Energy Corp.
U.S. District Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly directed JPMorgan to
explain why the e-mails shouldn’t be turned over to
investigators.  JPMorgan, based in New York, submitted copies of the e-
mails to the court on July 13 so they can be examined by U.S.
Magistrate Deborah Robinson, who is handling the dispute.  “Each of the e-mails relates to the advice of counsel with
respect to the investigation -- not the adoption of the bidding
practices under investigation,” Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP partner Michele Roberts, a lawyer for JPMorgan, wrote
in the bank’s filing. “The only possible use the commission
could make of the e-mails would be to peer into the details of
respondent’s legal strategy.”  FERC opened the probe in August after complaints from
California and Midwest grid operators that JPMorgan’s bidding
practices were abusive, according to the agency’s initial court
filing.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately comment on yesterday’s filing because she hadn’t
seen it yet. Mary O’Driscoll, a FERC spokeswoman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment on the
filing.  The case is Federal Energy Regulatory Commission v. J.P.
Morgan Ventures Energy Corp., 12-mc-352, U.S. District Court,
 District of Columbia  (Washington).  Spencer Dreier, Convicted Lawyer’s Son, Drops Dorm Suit  Spencer Dreier, whose father,  Marc Dreier , is serving a 20-
year sentence for cheating hedge funds out of $400 million,
agreed with an ex-roommate to drop mutual claims of assault and
defamation tied to a dorm-room fight.  Dreier sued Ben Clorite, his former roommate, in May 2009
for defamation, battery and emotional distress. After a fight in
their room, Clorite posted a libelous online allegation that
Dreier was obstructing the investigation into his father’s
crimes and trying to destroy evidence, Spencer Dreier claimed.  After jury selection and a week of a trial in federal court
in Manhattan that included testimony by both men, they agreed to
drop the case July 16, Clorite’s lawyer,  Jerome Coleman , said
yesterday in a phone interview.  “The parties have amicably reached a confidential
settlement agreement that they find has resolved the claims
underlying this lawsuit favorably,” Coleman read from a joint
statement by the two men. He declined to comment further.
Dreier, who represented himself, declined to comment.  The elder Dreier pleaded guilty in May 2009 in Manhattan
federal court to money laundering, conspiracy, securities fraud
and  wire fraud . He defrauded hedge funds in an effort to prop up
his now-defunct 250-lawyer New York firm, Dreier LLP.  The case is Dreier v. Clorite, 09-07553, U.S. District
Court for the Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  