-- Jeremy Lin’s Departure to Houston Already Costing Knicks Money
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-07-18T15:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/jeremy-lin-s-departure-to-houston-already-costing-knicks-money.html
The  New York Knicks  decision to let
guard Jeremy Lin sign a free-agent contract with the  Houston
Rockets  is already costing them money.  The Knicks didn’t match Houston’s three-year, $25 million
offer by yesterday’s deadline for Lin, a Harvard University
graduate and the first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in
the  National Basketball Association .  One-year sponsorships with Taiwan-based  Maxxis
International , a tire manufacturer, and  Acer Inc.  the fourth-
largest computer maker, ended after a season in which Lin
averaged 14.6 points and 6.2 assists in 35 NBA games with the
Knicks. His clutch shooting and passing made him an
international sensation and inspired the catchphrase
“Linsanity.”  “We are definitely interested in a sponsorship with the
 Houston Rockets ,” said Matt Clark, marketing manager for Maxxis
International, USA. “We are a Taiwanese-based company and not
only are we excited about Jeremy Lin and the exposure he is
getting throughout the U.S., but he is huge over in  Asia .”  Lin had provided “big exposure for us over there,” Clark
said in a telephone interview today.  “We’re proud of what he’s done, and we’re looking for
opportunities through the Rockets now,” he said.  Maxxis’s sponsorship with the Knicks included courtside
signs, an electronic advertising wrap on the sidelines,
courtside, the back cover of the Knicks’ yearbook and a poster
give-away night. The company is interested in a similar package
with the Rockets, Clark said without revealing a dollar figure.  Nelson Luis, the Rockets’ spokesman, was in Las Vegas for
the NBA’s summer league and unavailable to comment. A telephone
message left for his assistant, Tracey Hughes, wasn’t
immediately returned.  Calls left before the start of business with Acer in  San
Jose , California, weren’t immediately returned.  Coke Ads  The  Coca-Cola Co. (COKE)  placed advertisements in Chinese at
courtside of Madison Square Garden last season once Lin grabbed
international attention. Coke has a large sponsorship package
with the arena that won’t be affected by Lin’s departure, said
Stacey Escudero, a Madison Square Garden spokeswoman.  Lin increased the Knicks’ television ratings, merchandise,
tickets sales and sponsorships after joining the team’s lineup
Feb. 6. Now, he is returning to the team that signed him as an
undrafted rookie and cut him before he signed with the Knicks.  The 23-year-old guard, who had surgery in April to repair a
torn meniscus in his left knee, will become Houston’s starting
point guard after the Rockets traded Kyle Lowry to the  Toronto
Raptors .  The Knicks recently acquired two veteran point guards,
 Jason Kidd  and  Raymond Felton , and decided against matching the
Rockets’ offer for Lin. The deal is a back-loaded contract that,
under the NBA’s new collective bargaining agreement, would have
cost New York $25 million to $35 million more in the final
season because of the league’s luxury tax.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Wilmington,  Delaware  at   ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  