-- Jeremy Lin’s Joining Rockets Offers Best Shot at Winning China
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-07-18T04:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/jeremy-lin-s-joining-rockets-offers-best-shot-at-winning-china.html
Jeremy Lin’s marketing potential is
best cultivated by the  Houston Rockets , whose experience with
Chinese center  Yao Ming  has them better positioned and prepared
than any other National Basketball Association team to reap a
financial windfall from Asia.  Lin became a member of the Rockets when the  New York Knicks 
declined to match Houston’s three-year, $25 million offer -- a
back-loaded contract that, under the new collective bargaining
agreement, would have cost his old team $25 million to $35
million more in the final season.  Because of their work with Yao, a six-time All-Star, the
Rockets and Lin, the first Taiwanese- or Chinese-American to
play in the NBA, have the underpinnings and understanding to
seize marketing dollars from the world’s most populous nation,
George Postolos, who served as Houston’s chief executive officer
from 1998 to 2006, said in a telephone interview.  “It takes a consistent effort over time to figure China
out,” said Postolos, who, like Lin, graduated from  Harvard
University . “You need to know the market and the key players,
the companies that are most interested in developing a
relationship with a sports team. The Rockets have been at it a
very long time.”  The 7-foot-6 Yao played in Houston from 2002 to 2011. Asia-
based companies, including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , which put its
name on the team’s arena, sought affiliations with the Rockets.
Yao endorsement agreements also included deals with Apple Inc.
and  Visa Inc. (V)   China Connection  “Building meaningful business relationships in China takes
years,” says  Paul Swangard , managing director of the Warsaw
Sports Marketing Center at the University of Oregon. “Houston’s
history with Yao puts them well ahead of any other NBA team’s
ability to leverage another athlete with appeal in that
market.”  Yao this week formed a partnership with the NBA’s
subsidiary in China, where 300 million people say they’re
basketball fans.  The change of teams comes at a pivotal marketing time for
Lin, 23, who wasn’t drafted by an NBA team and was released by
the Golden State Warriors and Rockets before joining the Knicks
last season.  Houston General Manager Daryl Morey said on Twitter in
February, when Lin was starting to grab attention, that he
failed to recognize how good the guard could become.  “We should have kept (Lin),” Morey wrote on the social
media site. “Did not know he was this good. Anyone who says
they knew misleading U. Just accept the mistake. Finally,
really, happy for (Lin). Very hard working, nice & humble. He
has a great, great future.”  Knicks’ Decision  The decision to pass on Lin, a restricted free agent, ended
a period during which his return to New York changed from
seemingly inevitable to fiscally unreasonable due to the
structure of the Rockets’ offer.  On July 11, Knicks coach  Mike Woodson  said that the team
would match any offer for Lin, who emerged as a star on and off
the court in his one abbreviated season in New York. His return
became much less probable after the Knicks signed 39-year-
old point guard  Jason Kidd  and re-acquired point guard  Raymond Felton  in a trade with Portland.  Not long ago, sports marketers said, it would’ve been
inconceivable that Lin’s future would be in Houston instead of
New York.  Lin shot to stardom after joining the Knicks’ starting
lineup and leading them to six consecutive wins. That streak was
the launching pad for Linsanity, the label for the global
hysteria that the player himself has moved to trademark.  Lin was both a basketball and business catalyst for the
Knicks. His popularity fueled a rise in ticket prices,
merchandise sales and television ratings. Media analysts
credited the hysteria surrounding Lin with helping the MSG
Network, like the Knicks owned by the  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) ,
to settle its pricing dispute with Time Warner Cable Inc.  Network Effect  Analysts have said Lin’s most important financial
contribution to the Knicks was his effect on the network, which
last season charged up to $25,000 for a regular-season
commercial and $40,000 for playoff spots, two to three times the
previous amount. The Knicks also signed sponsorship agreements
with Taiwan-based Maxxis International, a tire manufacturer, and
 Acer Inc. (2353) , the fourth-largest computer maker whose deal expired
at the end of the season.  Lin finished the year averaging 14.6 points and 6.2
assists. He had surgery in April to repair a torn meniscus in
his left knee and missed New York’s opening-round postseason
loss to the  Miami Heat . Lin endorses  Nike Inc. (NKE)  products and in
March signed a two-year contract to promote Volvo in the U.S.
and China.  Brett Schissler, an executive vice president with Steiner
Sports, which focuses on memorabilia, says Lin had better play
well or “his value in the United States goes from being
somebody to a nobody.”  New Agent  Lin last month hired agent Jim Tanner of the Washington law
firm Williams & Connolly LLP, which represents NBA stars  Tim Duncan ,  Grant Hill  and  Shane Battier , to handle contract
negotiations and endorsements.  The ability of Houston -- and Lin -- to gain endorsement
and sponsorship riches hinges on how he plays and whether the
team wins, said Terry Rhoads, who left as Nike’s China sports
marketing director in 2002 to form Shanghai-based Zou Marketing
Inc.  “A lot of Chinese companies are waiting to see how he does
on the court in 2012-13, and then they will decide whether to do
courtside stadium advertising or enter into bigger and more
comprehensive sponsorship partnerships,” Rhoads said via e-
mail.  Brand Equity  Lin might get help in the form of three-time Defensive
Player of the Year  Dwight Howard , who has demanded a trade from
the Magic. The Rockets have made roster moves designed to enable
them to make an offer that would be attractive to  Orlando . The
 Los Angeles Lakers  also are interested in Howard, perhaps the
best big man in the NBA.  “Getting Jeremy is all about winning basketball games,
being the best team on the floor,” Postolos said. “But, they
will be able to take full advantage because they have brand
equity in Asia. It will make sense to people that one icon is
followed by another.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  