-- Jeremy Lin’s Exit Has Jilted Fans Bemoaning Knicks’ Management
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-07-18T17:39:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/jeremy-lin-s-exit-has-jilted-fans-bemoaning-knicks-management.html
Jeremy Lin’s exit from  New York 
didn’t pass quietly today, with Knicks fans stunned at how
quickly the team’s most popular player got away.  “This is a classic example of Knicks’ mismanagement,”
Mike Kurylo, a Manhattan resident who has written the
 Knickerblogger.net  blog for the past eight years, said in a
telephone interview.  Lin officially became a Houston Rocket last night after New
York opted not to match a back-loaded, three-year, $25 million
offer for the restricted free-agent guard.  In two weeks last season, Lin doubled Knicks’ television
ratings, expanded the franchise’s reach to  China , helped end a
cable-television carriage dispute and reinvigorated a
floundering team that eventually made the playoffs.  He took even less time to go from New York’s entrenched
starting point guard to wearing another team’s uniform.  Among the callers to ESPN Radio 98.7 FM/1050 AM in New
York, the Knicks’ flagship station, were some who felt Lin
wasn’t worth the financial burden his contract would have placed
on the team, host Ryan Ruocco said.  “There’s also a huge a faction of louder, more passionate
people that cannot believe that the greatest thing they’ve seen
on the floor in a Knicks’ uniform in the past 12 years is now
gone for nothing,” Ruocco said in a telephone interview.  Lin’s return had seemed to be such a forgone conclusion
that Ruocco’s show last week decided not to use daily promotions
to mention the possibility that the Rockets might actually get
him.  ‘Things Changed’  “We can’t really use that to create drama or urgency
because everybody knows that the Knicks are going to match,”
Ruocco said today about his colleagues’ earlier thinking. “How
much have things changed?”  Today’s New York Times sports section headline captured
Lin’s short stay as one of New York’s biggest celebrities, as
well as yesterday’s 11:59 p.m. deadline the team had to decide
whether to match Houston’s offer:  “Clock Strikes 12. Fairy Tale Ends.”  Six days earlier, Knicks’ coach  Mike Woodson  said the team
would “absolutely” match any offer for Lin, a 23-year-old
Harvard University graduate who was cut by two clubs including
the Rockets before signing with New York. He would start ahead
of newly signed 18-year veteran  Jason Kidd , Woodson said.  Lin said in an interview with  Sports Illustrated  that he
wanted to stay with the Knicks but was glad the wait was over.  “I love the New York fans to death,” Lin said. “That’s
the biggest reason why I wanted to return to New York. The way
they embraced me, the way they supported us this past season,
was better than anything I’ve ever seen or experienced. I’ll go
to my grave saying that. What New York did for me was
unbelievable. I wanted to play in front of those fans for the
rest of my career.”  ‘Linsanity’ Begins  Lin’s unexpected rise, which spawned the catch-phrase
“Linsanity,” began when he posted a 25-point, seven-assist
performance in a Feb. 4 win over the  New Jersey Nets  at Madison
Square Garden, playing extended minutes for the first time with
the Knicks. He moved into the starting lineup and became the
first player in NBA history to score at least 20 points and
collect seven assists in his first four starts, according to the
Elias Sports Bureau.  Lin’s final game for New York came March 24, when a chronic
meniscal tear in his left knee flared up, requiring season-
ending surgery. In 35 games, Lin averaged 14.6 points and 6.2
assists. New York, which was 8-15 on Feb. 3, finished the
lockout-shortened season at 36-30 before falling to the Miami
Heat 4-1 in the first round of the playoffs.  The Rockets offered Lin $5 million in the first season,
$5.225 in the second and $14.8 million in the third, ESPN said,
citing unidentified team officials.  Expensive Lineup  With All-Stars Carmelo Anthony, Amar’e Stoudemire and  Tyson Chandler  already under contract for 2014-15, the third year of
Lin’s contract would have put New York over the  National
Basketball Association ’s luxury-tax threshold, leading to $25
million to $35 million more in tax obligations.  “They could have kept him and traded him or Amar’e or
’Melo or Chandler before 2015,” said Kurylo, 38. “They could
have planned ahead. They didn’t do any of that and they got
nothing for it.”  By this morning, 14,679 people had signed a Change.org
 petition  asking the Knicks to match Houston’s offer for Lin, the
first Chinese- or Taiwanese-American to play in the NBA.  “I placed a vote,” said Michael Zhao, the managing editor
of the Asia Society’s Center on  U.S.-China Relations  in New
York. “I guess it didn’t help.”  Zhao, who didn’t follow the Knicks until Lin’s emergence
last season, said in a telephone interview that he’ll likely
start following the Rockets.  ‘Quite Sad’  “His emergence on the court for a few weeks with the
Knicks really helped boost a lot of confidence from the Asian
population, and not just basketball fans,” Zhao said. “I guess
they have their reasons, but for the Asian community here it’s
quite sad.”  The Knicks, owned by  James Dolan , chairman of the  Madison
Square Garden Co. (MSG) , will get more competition in New York City
next season, with the Nets moving to the new Barclays Center in
Brooklyn from  Newark ,  New Jersey .  The most popular post on the Change.org petition, which
continued to receive votes this morning, came three days ago
from a person identifying him or herself as R.J. O’Connell. It
included a mention of the Nets.  “Every time my NY cynicism crept through the cracks, he
surprised me by doing something amazing the next night,”
O’Connell said of Lin. “Dolan and Co., if you don’t sign him,
consider me and a ton of other people across the  Brooklyn  Bridge
to Barclays.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 