-- Jindal to Invest $6.3 Billion as Bolivia Fails: Corporate India
-- B y   R a j e s h   K u m a r   S i n g h
-- 2012-07-19T11:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/jindal-to-invest-6-3-billion-as-bolivia-fails-corporate-india.html
Jindal Steel & Power Ltd. (JSP) , India’s
second-biggest steelmaker by value, will spend 350 billion
rupees ($6.3 billion) to expand production at home and in Oman
after scrapping a deal to develop a Bolivian iron ore mine.  Factory capacity will more than quadruple to 13 million
metric tons by 2015, V.R. Sharma, chief executive officer of the
steel business, said yesterday in a phone interview. The company,
which runs a 3 million ton-a-year mill in India’s central state
of Chhattisgarh, is building a 5 million ton plant in the
eastern state of Orissa, a 3 million ton mill in Jharkhand and a
2 million ton facility in Oman, he said.  Jindal, run by billionaire lawmaker Naveen Jindal, said
June 17 it terminated a contract to build the $2.1 billion El
Mutun mine, joining  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA)  and  Steel Authority of India
Ltd. (SAIL)  in failing to develop projects overseas. Indian steelmakers
have sought resources in  Africa ,  Canada , the U.S. and  Australia 
and explored markets in  Europe , the  Middle East  and Southeast
Asia to set up new capacity.  “The termination of the Bolivian project is positive for
the company as it will help divert investments to more fruitful
projects,” said  Niraj Shah , an analyst at Mumbai-based Fortune
Equity Brokers India. “It was surprising how Jindal got such a
big deposit without any competition from mining heavyweights  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group. It always looked fraught with
risk.”  Shah, who has a  buy  recommendation on the stock, said he
did not count the Bolivian project in its valuation.  The  shares  of New Delhi-based Jindal fell 0.2 percent to
425.55 rupees at the close of trading in Mumbai. The stock has
declined 6.1 percent this year, compared with a 12 percent gain
in the benchmark  Sensitive Index. (SENSEX)   ‘Not Smooth’  “There are challenges in India, but things are not smooth
elsewhere either,” Sharma, 59, said. “The growth markets for
steel are India and Southeast Asia and our projects are well
placed to feed this market.”  Jindal signed an accord in 2007 with the Bolivian
government to develop  20 billion tons of iron ore reserves  at El
Mutun, build a 1.7 million ton steel mill, a sponge iron plant
and an iron pellet factory. India’s iron ore reserves total
about 8 billion tons.  Jindal, which has already spent about 150 billion rupees on
the new projects, will buy iron ore fines from miners in India,
including  NMDC Ltd. (NMDC) , and convert it into pellets for use in the
furnaces, Sharma said. Unlike most of its rivals, Jindal
operates a pellet plant and is building two more to expand its
capacity for turning fines into pellets.  Tax, Freight  Iron ore fines, dust that currently does not find a market
in India, comprise more than 90 percent of the nation’s iron ore
exports. An increase in export duty and railway freight and a
drop in prices of iron ore are hampering overseas sales, said
R.K. Sharma, secretary general at the  Federation of Indian
Mineral Industries , a lobby group for the  mining industry .  “Miners will be seeking more and more customers within the
country,” Sharma said in an interview.  Iron ore  with 62 percent content delivered to the Chinese
port of Tianjin fell 0.9 percent to $128.30 a ton yesterday, the
lowest price since Nov. 8, according to data from The Steel
Index Ltd. Prices are down 7.4 percent this year.  Iron ore  will
average $143 a ton this year, with the short-term outlook
dependent on economic stimulus from  China , the world’s largest
importer, researcher Wood Mackenzie Ltd. said.  Price Volatility  Jindal’s strategy to buy its entire iron ore requirement
from external suppliers will expose the company to price
volatility and uncertain shipments, said Giriraj Daga, an
analyst with Nirmal Bang Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. The  stock 
has suffered also because of the company’s failure to secure
coal supplies for its steel and power businesses, he said.  “You don’t think of making money from a steel plant which
is totally dependent on the market for iron ore,” Daga said.  While demand for cars, houses and appliances is stoking
steel consumption in  India , work on new capacity has slowed
because of farmer opposition to land acquisition and delays in
environmental and mining approvals. Local projects by producers
such as Steel Authority of India, Tata Steel and Essar Steel Ltd.
have been delayed and face cost overruns, said A.S. Firoz, chief
economist at the steel ministry.  “The constraints are numerous and there’s no change except
for further deepening of some of the problems over the past few
months,” Firoz said in a telephone interview. “Companies are
facing difficulties in getting land, capital, raw material and
skilled labor.”  Power Delay  The Bolivian setback also comes at a time when Jindal’s
plan to expand its power business is facing delays because of
the slow pace of government clearances and inadequate fuel
supplies.  A lack of coal and gas has prompted Indian power-generation
companies, including Adani Power Ltd., GVK Power &
Infrastructure Ltd. and  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR) , to defer projects
with a total capacity of 42 gigawatts.  NTPC Ltd. (NTPC) , the nation’s
biggest generator, has scaled back plans to add coal-fired
capacity by 42 percent in the five years ending 2017.  Jindal is racing to add 1,200 megawatts of generation
capacity at Chhattisgarh, half of the planned expansion at the
site, to avail tax breaks valid until March 2013, according to
Nirmal Bang Securities’ Daga.  Operating income  from Jindal’s
power business was lower than from the steel operations in the
year ended March 31, the first time in four years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajesh Kumar Singh in  New Delhi  at 
 rsingh133@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  