-- JPMorgan Hires Neimann for Insurance Asset Management
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-07-18T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/jpmorgan-hires-neimann-for-insurance-asset-management.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the largest
U.S. bank by assets, hired Douglas Niemann to be a managing
director as it builds a group to oversee about $39.5 billion in
general account assets for insurance clients.  Niemann, who previously worked at  American International
Group Inc. (AIG) , joined JPMorgan this month to lead the unit’s
strategy and analytics, according to Matt Malloy, head of global
insurance solutions at the New York-based bank’s asset-
management arm. Malloy has made at least four other senior hires
since the beginning of the year, bringing his team to more than
30 people globally.  “We continue to see a lot of opportunity to partner with
insurance companies,” Malloy said in a phone interview
yesterday. “We’ve invested in people, and a lot of that has
culminated over the last several months.”  JPMorgan,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  are
among firms vying to manage money for insurers facing pressure
from low  interest rates  and new regulations. General-account
assets overseen by the largest fund managers surged by about 20
percent annually from 2001 to 2009, to more than $1 trillion,
according to a  report  by Swiss Re Ltd.  That trend will probably continue, said Malloy. Mandates
from insurers in the U.S. and developed parts of Asia have been
driving growth while outsourcing from European insurers will
increase, he said. JPMorgan has boosted its number of insurance
asset-management clients by about 40 percent since the end of
2010.  Investment Income  Plunging  bond yields  have put pressure on insurers’ income
as they’re forced to reinvest proceeds from maturing securities
at lower rates. That’s made it more difficult for life insurers
to meet returns they’ve guaranteed customers on retirement
products and for property-casualty insurers to post a profit
when they lose money on underwriting.  Part of Niemann’s job will be to advise insurance clients
on investments, said Malloy. Niemann has worked at Zurich
Insurance Group AG, where he managed the market risk for
investment portfolios worldwide. He holds an MBA from the
University of Wisconsin-Madison School of Business and a
bachelor’s degree from  Northwestern University .  Other recent hires in the group include managing directors
Greg Tell, who joined this month from  MetLife Inc. (MET)  to oversee
fixed-income investments in New York, and Pat Tuttle in Chicago.
Neil Moge was hired as an  executive director  in London in
January, while Jeffrey Xia joined the group as a vice president
in the first quarter. JPMorgan has also been investing in its
technology to support its insurance clients, Malloy said.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and BlackRock had the most insurer general
account assets under management at the end of last year, with
more than $200 billion apiece, according to a preliminary  survey 
by Insurance Asset Manager, a trade publication. Conning was the
third-largest with $86 billion.  Goldman Sachs, with $59.5 billion in general account assets
under management, has boosted investment in its business that
oversees insurer funds, Chief Executive Officer  Lloyd Blankfein 
and President  Gary Cohn  wrote in the bank’s most recent annual
 report . Outsourcing has been accelerated by “new capital
regimes, greater demand as a result of the financial crisis and
a sustained low interest rate environment,” they wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  