-- Kinder Morgan Second-Quarter Profit Falls on Writedowns
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-07-18T22:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/kinder-morgan-second-quarter-profit-falls-on-write-downs.html
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ,
the biggest U.S. pipeline operator since its parent company
bought El Paso Corp. in May, said second-quarter profit fell as
it reduced the value of some pipeline assets that it agreed to
sell to obtain approval for the acquisition.  Net income fell to $153 million from $230 million a year
earlier, Houston-based  Kinder Morgan  said in a statement today.
The company had $308 million in one-time costs during the
quarter, mostly related to non-cash writedowns of pipelines and
gas-processing plants it’s selling as part of the El Paso deal.  After payments to  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI) , its parent company,
Kinder Morgan’s loss widened to 53 cents per partnership unit,
from 19 cents a year earlier.  The company increased its distribution to holders of its
partnership units by 7 percent to $1.23. Distributable  cash
flow , a measure of the company’s ability to pay distributions,
rose to $366 million from $324 million.  Revenue fell to $1.85 billion from $1.94 billion a year
earlier, according to the statement.  Much of the drop in revenue was due to declines in natural-
gas liquids prices, said  Darren Horowitz , an analyst with
Raymond James & Associates Inc. in Houston. Kinder tends to
process and transport “heavier” gas liquids such as butane and
isobutane, whose price is more closely linked to crude oil, he
said.  Economic Microcosm  “As crude  oil prices  fell, the heavier end of the NGL
barrel followed suit,” Horowitz said in an interview. He rates
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners a market perform and doesn’t own
any of its units.  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Richard Kinder  said
demand was lower for gasoline and other fuels.  “We’re kind of a microcosm of the economy,” he said
during a call with analysts.  Kinder Morgan Inc. bought El Paso May 24 for $22.8 billion,
creating a company with about 75,000 miles (121,000 kilometers)
of oil, gas and refined-product pipelines.  Kinder Morgan Energy agreed to sell about 7,200 miles of
pipelines to gain approval from the U.S. Federal Trade
Commission. The sale price of those transactions will determine
how Kinder proceeds with other proposals, including its plan to
purchase some of El Paso’s pipelines from its parent, Horowitz
said.  “If they don’t get the proceeds they hoped to get, they’re
going to have to find another lever,” such as issuing more
equity or taking on more debt, Horowitz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  