-- Kiwi May Beat Its Euro Record, JPMorgan Says: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-07-18T18:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/kiwi-may-beat-its-euro-record-jpmorgan-says-technical-analysis.html
New Zealand ’s dollar may strengthen
against the euro beyond the record it reached on July 16,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The kiwi, as the currency is nicknamed, has traded between
NZ$1.5507 and NZ$1.5324 against the euro for most of July as the
17-nation currency’s bearish momentum slowed,  Niall O’Connor , a
technical analyst at JPMorgan in  New York , wrote today in a
client note. Concern the euro bloc’s debt crisis is worsening
still could push the kiwi to NZ$1.51, beating the NZ$1.5324
record it set two days ago, he said.  “The euro-kiwi still looks like it could go lower because
the euro is likely to go lower,” O’Connor said in a telephone
interview. “There is further downside for the cross, since it
hasn’t done anything bullish yet.”  New Zealand’s currency gained 0.5 percent to NZ$1.5349 per
euro today in New York. It rose 0.2 percent to 79.93 U.S. cents.  A drop by the  New Zealand dollar  against its American
counterpart below the support range of 78.40 to 78.70 U.S. cents
may confirm a “deeper corrective phase” and cause the kiwi to
weaken further, according to O’Connor. The pair is forming a
“head-and-shoulders” pattern on its price chart, a bearish
signal, O’Connor said.  A head-and-shoulders pattern comprises three consecutive
peaks on a chart, with the middle being the highest. A breach of
a neckline, drawn across the base of the three peaks, is seen to
indicate a trend is about to reverse.  “There’s a potential pattern developing suggesting a
weaker tone developing,” O’Connor said. “If it breaks the
support level, that would suggest that there is further
downside.”  A support level is an area on a chart where buy orders may
be clustered.  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in a security,
currency or index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  