-- KKR Seeks to Invest at Least $500 Million in Europe Deals
-- B y   D e v i n   B a n e r j e e   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/kkr-seeks-to-invest-at-least-500-million-in-europe-deals.html
KKR & Co. (KKR)  intends to invest at least
$500 million in European deals over the next six months by
acting as a bank for struggling companies and taking advantage
of trillions of dollars of bad loans, said the firm’s head of
asset management.  European banks are unwilling to unload large portfolios of
assets worth as much as 3 trillion euros at prices attractive
for investors because the lenders want to avoid writedowns,
William Sonneborn said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Cristina Alesci being broadcast today. KKR is
seeking to help the banks deleverage while lending to the
companies that previously borrowed from them.  “We don’t know when  Europe  is going to get better, but we
know we’re going to get paid double-digit rates while we wait
for that day to come,” Sonneborn said. “The greatest
opportunity is being a solutions provider to the bank and to the
underlying borrower that has historically had the relationship
with the bank.”  KKR, the New York-based alternative-asset manager run by
 Henry Kravis  and  George Roberts , and private-equity competitors
are diversifying beyond traditional leveraged buyouts to find
new sources of revenue.  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO)  co-founder
Marc Rowan said in March that his firm wants to “be the new
bank” by filling the holes created by the financial crises in
the U.S. and Europe.  The estimate of assets that banks need to sell was raised
after economists projected higher unemployment and an increased
need for capital.  No Breakup  KKR is bullish on Europe in the long term because the
continent’s large population and wealth can overcome its
sovereign-debt crisis, Sonneborn said. He said he doesn’t
anticipate a breakup in the euro currency zone.  “Crises either drive people apart, which creates world
wars, or they bring people together,” he said. “My best bet is
the European crisis will result in a tighter union.”  Sonneborn, 42, joined KKR in 2008, four years after KKR
Asset Management was formed. The  business  has more than 60 deal-
makers who oversaw $16.3 billion as of March 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Devin Banerjee in  New York  at 
 dbanerjee2@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  