-- Nazarian’s SBE to Open Luxury Hotel as First NYC Property
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-07-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/nazarian-s-sbe-to-open-luxury-hotel-as-first-nyc-property.html
Sam Nazarian, the Los Angeles
restaurant and nightclub owner, plans to open an $85 million SLS
Hotel in  New York , the first in the city for the luxury brand.  His company, SBE Entertainment Group LLC, is teaming with
New York-based  Moin Development Corp.  on the 190-room project at
444 Park Ave. South, at 30th Street. They will gut and add on to
an existing office building to construct a 20-story hotel with a
rooftop bar, according to Nazarian, chairman and chief executive
officer of SBE. It would be the third SLS Hotel in the U.S. and
is slated to open by mid-2013, SBE said today in a statement.  SBE , which also owns Hyde nightclubs and the Katsuya and
Cleo restaurant brands, has said it wants to build SLS into a
chain of boutique hotels that would attract high-end leisure and
business travelers. New York City hotels had an occupancy rate
of 76 percent this year through April, the third-best among the
top 25 U.S. markets, behind Miami and Oahu,  Hawaii , according to
 Smith Travel Research Inc. , based in Hendersonville,  Tennessee .  “New York is a high-risk, high-reward market,”  Patrick Scholes , a hospitality-industry analyst at research firm
Suntrust Robinson Humphrey Inc. in New York, said in a telephone
interview last week. “It is higher risk, based on the cost of
entry but it tends to have strong demand for high-end boutique-
type hotels.”  ‘Sought After’  SBE took six years to find a suitable deal in New York,
Nazarian said. It competed against such companies as  Hyatt
Hotels Corp. (H)  and Kimpton Hotel & Restaurant Group LLC for the
Park Avenue property, he said. Nazarian agreed in March to the
joint venture in which Moin will own 90 percent and SBE will
have the rest.  “The Park Avenue South corridor is really sought after,”
Nazarian said yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s a great
place for boutique hotels. It reminds me of the Meatpacking
District 10 years ago.”  The project’s $85 million cost includes construction
expenses and Moin’s acquisition of the real estate, according to
Nazarian, whose company contributed $4 million in cash. Moin
paid $45 million for the property in August, the company’s
president, David Moinian, said in an e-mail.  The hotel will be designed by Philippe Starck, who also
worked on the SLS Hotel  South Beach  in  Florida , SBE said in the
statement.  Soho, Uptown  Nazarian envisions adding SLS properties in uptown
 Manhattan  and the Soho neighborhood and is scouting New York
locations for  Redbury , his new high-end, extended-stay brand.  SBE, which also operates an SLS Hotel in Beverly Hills,
 California , expects to make a deal this year for an SLS in
Seattle, he said.  In May, SBE and Stockbridge Real Estate Funds of  San
Francisco  obtained $300 million in funding to redevelop the
landmark Sahara Hotel & Casino in Las Vegas. It is scheduled to
open in 2014 as the SLS Las Vegas, Nazarian said at the time.  Expanding may prove challenging for a new brand like SLS,
according to Scholes, the industry analyst.  “The hotel business is a very competitive industry where
having a well-known name typically means you have a higher
chance to be able to stay in business,” he said. “If you’re a
new brand without name recognition, you’ll have to spend a lot
of money to be successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  