-- New Oriental Hits 5-Year Low on Muddy Waters Accusations
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-07-19T03:41:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/new-oriental-tumbles-to-low-on-muddy-waters-fraud-report.html
New Oriental Education & Technology
Group Inc. (EDU)  fell to the lowest in five years in U.S. trading
yesterday after short-seller  Muddy Waters  LLC said the financial
statements for the Chinese company’s units are fraudulent.  The education company’s  American depositary receipts  fell
35 percent to the lowest level since 2007, a day after losing 34
percent on July 17, when New Oriental said it was being
investigated by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  New Oriental, which prepares individuals for exams
including the Graduate Management Admission Test, is the latest
Chinese company accused of improper accounting practices. Muddy
Waters in June 2011 accused Sino-Forest Corp. of overstating its
assets, sparking a 74 percent drop in its shares before
regulators suspended trading of the stock. Sino-Forest filed for
 bankruptcy protection  in March.  “Any sense that there isn’t total honesty, total
transparency sends investors fleeing,”  Timothy Ghriskey , chief
investment officer at New York-based Solaris Group, which
manages about $2 billion in assets, said by phone yesterday.
“Investors are nervous in this environment. It hurts an entire
group of stocks.”  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund, the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., retreated 0.7 percent to
$32.97 yesterday. The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  added 0.7
percent to 1,372.78 after U.S. housing starts increased at the
fastest rate in almost four years.  New Oriental’s ADRs have fallen in nine consecutive trading
days, the longest stretch of declines since the Beijing-based
company’s initial public offering in 2006.  Units’ Financials  Muddy Waters questioned the ownership of some of New
Oriental’s schools and the consolidation of their financial
statements with the parent company.  Carson Block , the founder of
Muddy Waters, wrote in a  report  that his firm believed New
Oriental would be forced to restate historical results and that
its auditor would resign.  Three phone calls to the press office of New Oriental in
Beijing went unanswered. A call to the Beijing press office of
Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu CPA Ltd. wasn’t returned.  New Oriental said on July 17 that it was informed July 13
that the SEC issued an order of investigation. The regulator may
review the consolidated earnings of its subsidiaries, the
company said in a statement.  Analysts at Oppenheimer Co. cut their  recommendation  on New
Oriental yesterday to market perform from outperform, while
Jefferies Group Inc. downgraded the company to hold from buy,
lowering its 12-month price target to $18 from $33. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. suspended its rating on the shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  