-- News Corp. Failed to Disclose Executive’s Hacking E-Mail
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n   a n d   S o f i a   H o r t a   e   C o s t a
-- 2012-07-18T16:15:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/news-corp-failed-to-disclose-executive-s-phone-hacking-e-mail.html
News Corp. (NWSA) ’s British publishing unit
failed for months to disclose in civil litigation an
executive’s e-mail with instructions on hacking the mobile-phone
voice mail of a “well-known person.”  The e-mail was found by the company in March during a
required search for evidence and was only shared with victims
yesterday, after police alerted them to its existence,  David
Sherborne , a lawyer for dozens of people who had their messages
intercepted, said at a London hearing today.  “We had to be told about it by police, even though News
International knew about it,” Sherborne said, referring to the
unit. “We have a real concern about the way this disclosure is
being conducted” because the e-mail is of “enormous
significance” in the overall case, he said.  News Corp., the New York-based company controlled by
Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , is trying to move on from the scandal
after the victims’ civil case and a parallel media-ethics probe
that began last year revealed damaging e-mails and text messages
about hacking and other wrongdoing. Judge Geoffrey Vos, who is
overseeing the civil cases, said in January the company
destroyed evidence to hide the extent of the problem.  Lawyers with Linklaters LLP, which represents News
International, said they discovered the e-mail in the context of
a separate phone-hacking search requested by police and that
they forgot to give it to victims in the civil case.  Firm Apologized  Vos said the London-based  law firm  apologized for the
oversight and that he believed its explanation of what happened.
The identities of the executive who wrote the e-mail and the
person it was about should remain secret, he said, to prevent
the information from affecting related criminal cases.  While Sherborne didn’t challenge the explanation, he said
the oversight raised concerns the company’s process of carrying
out court-ordered searches for e-mail evidence may be
inadequate, and that e-mails of equal importance may not yet
have been discovered.  The hacking scandal at News Corp.’s News of the World
newspaper led to the title’s closure a year ago and triggered a
related bribery probe into the company’s Sun tabloid. About 60
people have been arrested, including former News International
Chief Executive Officer Rebekah Brooks, who was charged in May
with conspiring to cover up the hacking scandal.  The company seeks to settle about 50 combined civil
lawsuits before a trial scheduled for February, with lawyers
saying the number of victims in the case may rise to about 100
by then. A trial scheduled for earlier this year was canceled
after an initial group of test lawsuits were settled.  79 Settlements  News International’s lawyer Michael Silverleaf said today
about 250 alleged victims have sought out-of-court settlements
with the company, using a procedure it created that’s overseen
by a former judge. He said about 79 deals have been reached and
they aren’t part of the current case.  Vos ordered News International in January to search a
former employee’s laptops for new evidence. The company is also
examining iPhones used by four unidentified executives after
victims said they may contain evidence.  Testifying today at the media-ethics inquiry,  Max Mosley ,
the former president of Formula One, proposed the creation of an
independent press tribunal which could levy fines of as much as
10 percent of a publication’s revenue.  “We need a statutory body that can stop the press from
going too far,” he said. “A decent journalist will recognize
if he got it wrong.”  Mosley, who won a 60,000 pound ($93,800) award against News
of the World in 2008 for publishing a story that said he took
part in a Nazi-themed “orgy,” said the enforcement process
should be completely independent from the government and the
media.  “With privacy, money can do nothing to repair the damage
to the victim,” according to a document Mosley submitted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net 
Sofia Horta e Costa in London at 
 shortaecosta@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  