-- No Courts-Martial for 9 in Colombia Prostitution Episode
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-07-18T19:43:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/no-courts-martial-for-9-in-colombia-prostitution-episode.html
Nine U.S. military service members
will receive non-judicial punishments instead of facing court-
martial proceedings for their involvement in a prostitution
incident in Columbia in April.  The cases of two other service members remain under legal
review, Lieutenant Colonel D.L. Wright, a spokesman for U.S.
Southern Command in Miami, said today in an interview. The 12th
military member involved in the incident was reprimanded, while
cleared of violations under the Uniform Code of Military
Justice, Wright said.  The service members, who represent all branches of the
military, accompanied 11 Secret Service agents to the resort
city of Cartagena, Columbia, to prepare for President  Barack
Obama ’s arrival at the Summit of the Americas.  The summit was overshadowed by allegations of misconduct
among the U.S. personnel. The incident was sparked when a
Cartagena prostitute refused to leave the hotel room occupied by
the Secret Service until she was paid, according to
Representative  Peter King , a  New York  Republican who was briefed
on the incident in April.  The names of the service members involved and their
specific punishments haven’t been released, Wright said.
Examples of typical non-judicial punishments include a reduction
in rank and a forfeiture of pay.  “If it turns out that some of the allegations that have
been made in the press are confirmed, then of course I’ll be
angry,” Obama said in April when news of the allegations first
broke. “We’re representing the people of the  United States . And
when we travel to another country, I expect us to observe the
highest standards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  