-- N. Korea Names Kim Jong Un Marshal in Consolidation of Power
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-07-18T07:25:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/north-korea-makes-kim-jong-un-marshal-of-the-nation.html
Kim Jong Un consolidated his hold on
 North Korea , taking the top military rank of marshal days after
the army chief was removed.  The leadership of the government and the military made the
decision yesterday, the state-run Korean  Central News Agency 
said today in a statement.  Kim’s new post cements his place at the top of North
 Korea ’s 1.2 million-strong military seven months after
succeeding his late father Kim Jong Il as dictator. Having
ousted army chief Ri Yong Ho on July 15, Kim is now free to
pursue his own policies, such as using military resources to
improve the country’s isolated and impoverished economy.  “Kim could have created a lot of instability and
opposition by suddenly firing Ri Yong Ho, one of the most
influential figures in the military,” said Cheong Seong Chang,
a senior research fellow at the Sejong Institute in  Seoul . “By
raising Kim’s authority over the army, the regime is able to
wield more control over the military leadership.”  South Korea  has no comment on Kim’s promotion as it is a
domestic matter, Unification Ministry spokesman Kim Hyung Suk
said by telephone. South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  held a
national security meeting this morning to discuss developments
in North Korea, according to a statement on the presidential
website. The two countries technically remain at war after their
1950-53 conflict ended without a peace treaty.  The South Korea won extended gains while stocks fell after
North Korea’s announcement. The benchmark Kospi  index  dropped
1.5 percent, halting a three-day gain.  Smooth Transition  “This is actually a positive for Seoul,” said Wai Ho Leong, a senior regional economist at  Barclays Capital  in
 Singapore . “Pundit speculation of a power struggle or coup by
hardliners have not materialized. The transition has been
smoother and faster than expected and I think this points us to
more stability in North Korea and  capital markets .”  North Korea yesterday named General Hyon Yong Chol vice
marshal of the army two days after KCNA said Ri was relieved of
his posts on July 15 due to illness. Ri, 69, was an advocate of
 Kim Jong Il ’s military-first policy and may have lost a power
struggle as Kim Jong Un deployed troops to work on construction
projects, analysts including Park Young Ho said.  Ri’s departure “is a definite message from Kim that anyone
who tries to challenge the regime will, without a doubt, be
taken out,” said Park, senior research fellow at the state-run
Korea Institute of National Unification in Seoul.  ‘Fundamental Change’  The U.S., which has led the international push to force
North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons program, called for
reform beyond organizational changes. The Obama administration
in April canceled a food aid plan after Kim’s regime fired a
long-range rocket in defiance of United Nations sanctions.  “Changes in personnel, absent a fundamental change in
direction, mean little,” State Department spokesman Patrick Ventrell told reporters on July 17.  Thought to be under 30, Kim has worked to bolster his
public image while rebuffing western appeals to abandon the
country’s nuclear weapons development. He has taken a more
dynamic leadership style than either his father or grandfather,
state founder  Kim Il Sung .  The younger Kim has already made two live-broadcast
speeches unlike his father who has never delivered a public
address. Kim Jong Un attended a performance this month featuring
Mickey and Minnie Mouse, Winnie the Pooh and other  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS)  characters that was unauthorized by the U.S. media company.
He made a publicized visit to an amusement park in May where he
scolded the management for chipped paint and broken pavement.  Isolated Economy  North Korea’s economy, isolated from most of the world’s
markets over its nuclear weapons program, contracted in four of
the past six years, according to South Korea’s central bank.
Gross domestic product in the communist nation increased 0.8
percent in 2011 after a 0.5 percent decline in 2010, according
to an estimate published by the  Bank of Korea  in Seoul.  North Korea’s per capita income was 1.33 million won
($1,160) while South Korea’s was 25 million won, according to
its estimates. North Korea relies on  China , its biggest trade
partner, for energy and food assistance.  South Korean President Lee Myung Bak urged the North last
month to follow the example of the political opening of Myanmar.
The Southeast Asian nation’s efforts to reengage with the global
economy were rewarded last week by President  Barack Obama 
authorizing U.S. companies to invest in Myanmar for the first
time in about 15 years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  