-- Nuclear Resurgence Seen Luring Paladin Offers: Real M&A
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-07-19T08:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/nuclear-resurgence-seen-luring-paladin-offers-real-m-a.html
Australian uranium producer  Paladin
Energy Ltd. (PDN)  is tempting acquirers from  Canada  to  China  with a
stock price that’s less than the value of its net assets as
 Japan  restarts idled nuclear reactors.  Paladin, which lost almost  80 percent  of its value after
Japan suffered the worst atomic crisis in a quarter century, is
now trading at a 22 percent discount to  book value , according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. While uranium prices have tumbled 26
percent since the meltdowns at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant in
March 2011, the Perth-based company is projected this fiscal
year to post its first profit since beginning production of the
nuclear fuel, analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  With Japan’s decision to turn two reactors back on this
month signaling a possible bottom for uranium prices, Paladin,
which operates mines in  Africa  and explores for the fuel in
Australia and Canada, may attract interest from Saskatoon,
Saskatchewan-based  Cameco Corp. (CCO) , Resource Capital Research said.
Chinese companies seeking uranium as the country builds 26 new
reactors are also potential bidders for the $917 million
company, according to Octa Phillip Securities Ltd.  “Paladin is a target,” Andrew Shearer, a Melbourne-based
analyst for Octa Phillip, said in a telephone interview. “It
could be an opportunistic purchase at a time when the uranium
market is potentially at its bottom.”  Paladin, which rose as much as  11 percent  today, ended at
A$1.165 a share in Sydney. The company, which is also traded in
Toronto and Windhoek,  Namibia , was the day’s  best-performing 
member of Australia’s benchmark  S&P/ASX 200 Index. (AS51)   Strategic Options  Paladin Chief Executive Officer John Borshoff didn’t return
two messages seeking comment. Borshoff owns about 22 million
shares, or 2.6 percent of Paladin, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  The company, which told investors last year it may sell
stakes in some of its exploration projects, reiterated last week
it is considering “joint venture and strategic options offered
by participants in the nuclear industry.”  “The high level of interest from these parties has
confirmed both the global demand for high-quality uranium assets
and the desire to partner with Paladin,” according to a July 13
 stock exchange filing . Paladin said in the statement it is
evaluating three potential deals and plans to announce the
results of the discussions between August and October.  Founded in 1993, Paladin began acquiring uranium assets
five years later during a downturn in the uranium market, its
 website  shows. The company’s Langer Heinrich mine in Namibia was
officially opened in 2007, while the Kayelekera project in
Malawi began production in 2009. Paladin plans to boost output
to 8 million to 8.5 million pounds of uranium in the year ending
in June 2013, from 6.9 million pounds in the previous year.  ‘There’s Light’  “Now they are actually delivering in terms of
production,” Troy Irvin, a Perth-based analyst at Argonaut
Securities Pty Ltd., said in a telephone interview. “Paladin’s
long journey highlights how difficult it is to get mines up and
running, how difficult it is to get new supply. They’ve done
that, and it appears there’s light at the end of the tunnel.”  With production rising, Paladin’s revenue is expected to
reach  $488 million  in the year that ends June 2013, more than
double what was reported in 2010, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Analysts project the company will report net income
of $34 million this year, the first profit since Paladin started
producing uranium at the Langer Heinrich mine at the end of
2006, the data show.  ‘Integral Part’  The nuclear fuel traded at $67.50 a pound before the
earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan crippled  Tokyo Electric
Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima nuclear power plant and triggered the
worst atomic disaster since Chernobyl in 1986. The accident
spurred countries such as  Germany  and  Taiwan  to announce their
withdrawals from nuclear power, while China put new plant
approvals on hold because of safety concerns.  After falling to a post-Fukushima low of $49 last August,
uranium traded at $50.15 on July 16, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Uranium, which peaked at $136 in 2007, declined in
2008 and 2009 before surging 40 percent in 2010.  Japan’s decision to restart two nuclear  power plants ,
ending a two-month period when all the country’s 50 reactors
were offline for safety checks, may help improve the outlook for
uranium. A  Kansai Electric Power Co. (9503)  reactor at the Ohi plant
started generating electricity earlier this month, and a second
Ohi reactor is also set to resume.  “Sentiment has improved,” Haris Khaliqi, a Sydney-based
analyst at Foster Stockbroking Pty, said by phone. “With Japan
taking the first steps to restart their fleet of reactors,
that’s a positive step and should provide some support for the
uranium price. It highlights that uranium will be an integral
part of Japan’s power mix going forward.”  ‘More Uranium’  A rise in Chinese imports will also help spur a rebound in
prices beginning this year, JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts
project. Spot uranium prices may rise from $55 later this year
to $85 in 2014, they wrote in a July 10 report.  “China will likely continue to import more uranium than
its existing reactors require with the expectation of a
significant roll-out of capacity,” Mark Busuttil, a Sydney-
based analyst at the New York-based bank, wrote.  Still, negative sentiment toward uranium, along with
nuclear safety concerns after the crisis in Japan, has weighed
on  Paladin’s shares , JPMorgan said in the report.  A 78 percent drop since Japan’s earthquake and tsunami
pushed the shares to a seven-year low of A$1.065 as of
yesterday’s close. At that level, Paladin was trading at 0.78
times the value of its net assets and 43 percent below the
A$1.88  price target  of 17 analysts compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with an average premium to book value of 31 percent for
the  26 members  of the  ISE-CCM Global Uranium (YC)  index.  ‘Stable Floor’  The valuations are helping make Paladin a target for
companies betting on an eventual recovery in the uranium market,
according to  John Wilson , Sydney-based managing director at
Resource Capital.  “The uranium price does seem to have found a fairly stable
floor above $50 a pound,” he said. “They’ve got an attractive
growth profile and exploration pipeline.”  Paladin may fetch more than A$1.5 billion ($1.6 billion), a
69 percent premium to yesterday’s value, if a buyer offered the
same price per pound of uranium paid in takeovers of Hathor
Exploration Ltd., Extract Resources Ltd. and Mantra Resources
Ltd., Octa Phillip’s Shearer said. London-based Rio Tinto Group
bought Hathor last year for C$654 million ($646 million).  “We’ve seen that the prices paid by strategic investors
for long-term uranium supply are certainly a lot more than
equity market values for uranium stocks,” Shearer said.  China Demand  China has 14 reactors operating and 26 under construction,
accounting for more than 40 percent of the plants being built
globally, according to the  World Nuclear Association . China, the
world’s biggest energy user, approved a five-year nuclear safety
plan at the end of May that may lead the nation to end a
temporary halt on new plant approvals. China hasn’t said when it
will start approving more reactors.  “The country has to rely on nuclear power to replace some
fossil fuels in the next 20 to 30 years,” said Patrick Dai, an
analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “It’s not a
question about whether China will restart nuclear programs. It
is a question of how quickly China will resume the expansion.”  Two of the three state backed companies charged with
building China’s nuclear power plants -- China National Nuclear
Corp., and China Guangdong Nuclear Power Group Co. -- have
already begun to acquire overseas suppliers of uranium.  Cameco  China National Nuclear, which said in March that it was in
talks with France’s  Areva SA (AREVA)  to buy a stake in uranium mines, is
the parent of Hong Kong-listed  CNNC International Ltd. (2302) , which
owns a mine in  Niger  and bought Canada’s Western Prospector
Group Ltd., which explores for uranium in Mongolia, in 2009.  “Chinese nuclear power players will definitely be
interested in Paladin, especially while the asset remains cheap,
as they need to stock up uranium for long-term capacity
expansions,” Dai said. “China’s current uranium reserves may
only be enough for 10 to 15 years consumption, so they would
rather acquire uranium assets now rather than later.”  Spokesmen for CNNC in Beijing and China Guangdong in
Shenzhen could not be reached to comment.  Cameco, the world’s largest uranium producer, may also have
an interest in Paladin, especially its Michelin project in
eastern Canada, Resource Capital’s Wilson said. Paladin added
Michelin when it completed the purchase of uranium assets from
Fronteer Gold Inc. for C$260.9 million in early 2011.  Cameco agreed in May to buy trader Nukem Energy GmbH for
105 million euros ($129 million) after acquiring Areva’s 30
percent stake in a uranium project in Saskatchewan for C$150
million. Cameco terminated an offer to buy Hathor after being
outbid by Rio.  ‘Acquisition Path’  A Cameco filing in May to raise as much as C$1 billion by
selling stock, bonds or other securities, stoked speculation it
is considering further acquisitions, according to Foster
Stockbroking’s Khaliqi. Cameco said in the filing that it has no
immediate plans to raise the funds.  “Cameco has made it clear they’re on an acquisition
path,” Khaliqi said. “Paladin would give them scale and quite
a diverse exploration portfolio.”  “As one of the world’s leading uranium producers, we are
often associated with speculation about various business
deals,” Rob Gereghty, a spokesman for Cameco, said in an e-
mailed statement in response to being asked whether the company
is considering a takeover of Paladin. “Any material agreement
we complete would be broadly communicated to investors and other
stakeholders by a news release.”  Paladin, trading at the lowest level since 2005, and facing
the repayment of $134 million in convertible bonds next March,
may be vulnerable to a takeover, said Edward Sterck, an analyst
at BMO Capital Markets in  London . Sterck expects uranium prices
to rise as much as 30 percent to $65 next year.  “Until relatively recently I never really considered
Paladin to be much of a takeover candidate,” he said in a
telephone interview. “Potentially now does represent a good
time to look at acquisitions, especially given shares generally
are a fair amount lower than they have been in the past.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at 
 srabil@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  