-- NYSE Retail Order Pilot Draws Competing Plans from Bats, Nasdaq
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a
-- 2012-07-18T20:17:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/nyse-retail-order-pilot-draws-competing-plans-from-bats-nasdaq.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ) , Bats Global
Markets Inc. and Direct Edge Holdings LLC are working on plans
to compete with the  New York  Stock Exchange’s initiative to
attract individual investors through superior prices.  The exchange operators are developing strategies to deliver
lower prices to retail investors who want to buy and higher
prices to those selling. The Securities and Exchange Commission
approved a pilot project to be started by NYSE on Aug. 1 to
furnish individuals with prices at least one-tenth of a cent
better than those available to mutual funds, high-frequency
traders, brokers and other market participants.  The program is aimed at helping NYSE to compete with so-
called equity wholesalers, a category of market makers that
executes orders for individuals sent to them by retail brokers
such as  TD Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD)  and Charles Schwab Corp.
Knight Capital Group Inc. and Citigroup Inc. are among the
largest wholesalers trading orders away from exchanges at prices
that match or improve on the levels offered publicly.  NYSE’s program “highlights a fundamental shift in the way
the SEC views exchanges and the way exchanges may ultimately
wind up operating,” Joe Ratterman, chief executive officer of
Bats, said in a phone interview. “This is a major, major
fundamental shift or step in the direction of segmenting your
customer base. While Bats would prefer that we hold to the old
doctrine, clearly the SEC has paved the way for a change to that
doctrine and we absolutely will respond.”  Open Access  Exchanges historically provided “fair and open access” on
the same terms to all participants, Ratterman said. Now they’re
being allowed to offer “disproportionate economics and
disproportionate access based on participant type,” he said.
While the SEC is permitting NYSE to give retail investors better
prices, “it’s a slippery slope” that could allow exchanges to
further differentiate between users, Ratterman said.  He didn’t provide specifics about the program that Bats,
based in Lenexa,  Kansas , would propose for retail investors.  About 10 percent of U.S.  volume  comes from retail clients,
according to Joseph Mecane, co-head of U.S. listing and cash
execution at  NYSE Euronext. (NYX)  The SEC authorized the 12-month
pilot on the New York-based NYSE and NYSE MKT, a separate venue
owned by the parent, on July 3.  NYSE is combating a “tiered market” in which retail
orders that can be traded at prevailing prices never make it to
public exchanges that aggregate buy and sell interest from asset
managers, brokers and other participants to determine stock
prices for investors, Mecane said. Allowing exchanges to deliver
better prices benefits individuals and lets the venues compete
for orders that are attractive to market makers, he said.  ‘Competitive Process’  “This is not increasing the tiering that already exists in
the market,” Mecane said in a telephone interview. “It tries
to create a more open, efficient, competitive process around the
segmentation that already occurs with retail orders, but in an
exchange environment.”  William O’Brien , CEO of Direct Edge, called NYSE’s plan a
“milestone” and said his company would offer a program to
provide better prices and more shares to retail customers. Like
Bats, Direct Edge in  Jersey City ,  New Jersey , operates two
exchanges. NYSE Euronext and  Nasdaq  OMX each have three. A total
of 13 U.S. exchanges exist to trade stocks.  “Price is not the only aspect of execution quality,”
O’Brien said in a phone interview. “What the average investor
really wants when they want to buy or sell is to get their
entire order immediately filled at that price. Price and size
are both elements that matter to retail investors so I think
you’ll see elements of both in our program.”  Broker Dealers  Direct Edge’s biggest broker-dealer owners include  Knight (KCG) 
and Citadel LLC, both large wholesalers. UBS AG and Citigroup
round out the four main firms that trade with retail clients.  What’s most significant about the SEC’s approval of NYSE’s
program is the “ability of exchanges to provide targeted
outcomes” for some users, O’Brien said. “The notion of fair
access was that if you’re not doing it for everybody, you can’t
do it for anybody. At least with retail investors, that’s
clearly allowed now.”  The CEO of Knight, which has criticized NYSE’s plans to the
SEC, said today that exchanges’ interest in bidding for retail
orders is a “rush to the bottom” because it allows bid and
offer quotes at increments less than 1 cent. That’s currently
not permitted by the SEC since the disadvantages are seen as
outweighing the benefits of minimally better prices. The SEC
exempted NYSE’s and NYSE MKT’s programs from the ban.  Market Share  NYSE’s effort is an “instrument crafted by our friends at
11  Wall Street  in an attempt to garner more retail market
share,” Thomas M. Joyce, chairman and CEO of Knight, said today
on a conference call. “Let the games begin.”  Market makers that internalize orders as wholesalers can
provide better prices and payments to retail brokers, Joyce
said. While competition may hurt Knight by shrinking the volume
of retail orders it gets, the company’s market-making business
at NYSE would offset part of the loss, he said. Knight can
“defend our place in the market quite ably,” he added.  NYSE’s program would  create  two new categories of brokers:
retail member organizations and retail liquidity providers.
Orders from a firm in the first group including a broker acting
on its behalf could trade against hidden orders at the exchange
intended only for retail clients. While both the price and
number of available shares won’t be displayed, the exchange will
indicate in a public data feed whether there are buy or sell
orders for a specific stock intended for retail customers.  Order Flow  Orders submitted to the exchange for individual investors
could come from market makers at NYSE, automated traders, asset
managers and others. So-called  designated market makers  and
supplemental liquidity providers authorized by NYSE will get
better pricing than others supplying orders for retail clients.  “Ultimately it benefits retail, because when market makers
have a sense of who the other side of the trade is, they’re
generally willing to give better prices to that customer,”
Mecane said. “If you’re just trading and have no idea who
you’re trading against, you’ll be less willing to make
aggressive prices than you would be if you knew the other side
wasn’t a proprietary trading firm.”  Most retail orders in the program will probably initially
come from wholesalers who don’t trade with all the buy and sell
requests they get, Mecane said. Those orders may get better
prices than they’d otherwise receive because a wider range of
participants will be competing for them, he said.  Visible Quotes  Firms submitting retail orders to NYSE can also allow them
to trade with public buy and sell requests at the exchange or on
other venues, Mecane said. NYSE hopes that will increase retail
trading with “visible quotes” and encourage liquidity
providers to supply bids and offers for other types of investors
at the exchange, he said.  Thomas Peterffy, chairman and CEO of  Interactive Brokers
Group Inc. (IBKR) , a Greenwich, Connecticut-based securities firm that
operates a market-making unit, said NYSE’s program could
backfire on retail investors by alienating market makers.  Such traders may be less willing to quote aggressively on
exchanges if others are getting slightly better, hidden prices,
Peterffy said in a conference call yesterday. That could cause
the bid-ask spread, or difference between the price at which
traders are willing to buy and sell shares, to widen, yielding
worse prices for investors, he said.  Institutional investors such as mutual funds also won’t get
the benefits of the retail programs that exchanges offer,
according to Ratterman of Bats. While it’s important to give
individuals the best trades possible, many people invest for
their retirement through pension or mutual funds, which won’t
have access to the better prices, he said.  Liquidity Providers  About half a dozen firms currently plan to be retail
liquidity providers when the pilot program begins next month,
Mecane said. A few others may also register as supplemental
liquidity providers in order to join the program, he said. He
said he hopes NYSE will increase its share of trading in stocks
it lists by “low single digits” within a year.  Nasdaq OMX also intends to compete with NYSE’s retail
liquidity program. The New York-based company’s effort will take
the form of automated auctions for orders from individual
investors,  Eric Noll , executive vice president for transaction
services, said at the exchange operator’s analyst-day conference
on May 10.  A  written presentation  said the auctions will be similar to
those run on options exchanges, in which market makers vie to
win the retail investor’s order by providing the best price. The
auctions last less than a second.  Dark Pools  The program will “re-segment the market, attract flow from
the dark pools for retail investors, give them a live auction
process for them to get price improvement” through market
makers competing with each other, Noll said. Nasdaq hasn’t yet
submitted a proposal for its equities auction system to the SEC.  NYSE plans to forego revenue from transaction fees and will
lose money from trades in its retail program as it tries to
build customer interest, according to Mecane. Bats was first to
adopt the pricing  tactic  as a way to get new customers and grab
trading from rival markets in early 2007.  Instead of employing what’s called maker-taker pricing that
pays the suppliers of bids and offers and charges those trading
against them, NYSE will initially pay 5 cents per 100 shares to
retail firms taking liquidity from the exchange, Mecane said.
That won’t match the 20 cents for every 100 shares that TD
Ameritrade gets from wholesalers, according to an estimate from
Raymond James Financial Inc. in a report on July 9.  Volume Tier  Retail liquidity providers who offer quotes to individuals
through NYSE will pay no fee while firms such as asset managers
that supply orders will pay 3 cents per 100 shares unless they
meet a volume tier that allows them to trade for free, Mecane
said. The exchange will therefore lose 5 cents for every 100
shares bought or sold when individuals trade with market makers.
The fees are subject to SEC approval.  Whether NYSE’s retail project prompts the SEC to reassess
issues such as allowing quotes at increments of less than 1 cent
for all investors may depend on how much traction the program
and others like it get, Mecane said. Another topic exchanges
have pushed is a rule intended to make it harder for brokers to
trade away from exchanges unless they provide better prices.  “I don’t think it answers or changes most of the major
market-structure questions that are out there,” Mecane said
about the retail program. “But to the extent it does become
very pervasive, it could put the discussion on the table.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nina Mehta in New York at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson in New York at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net . 