-- Obama Campaign Detectives Hunt for Foreclosed Florida Voters
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-07-18T13:29:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/obama-camp-plays-detective-in-hunt-for-foreclosed-florida-voters.html
By day, Lynnette Acosta, a 34-year-
old mother of two, is an information-technology manager in
 Orlando ,  Florida . By night, she’s a sleuth for President  Barack Obama ’s re-election campaign, scouring for potential voters.  In central Florida, that means knocking on doors in
Hispanic neighborhoods with  foreclosure  rates as high as 30
percent, where once-registered Democrats have been evicted,
their homes now  owned  by the bank. Volunteers walk house-to-
house to determine the number of empty homes per precinct, then
look for contact information for voters who once lived in them.  “It’s almost like playing detective, asking questions,”
said Acosta, who is Puerto Rican and one of five campaign
volunteers selected to join governors, senators and other
officials serving as national co-chairs of the Obama campaign.
“We take one door at a time, one person at a time.”  As Obama confronts a housing crisis that he’s acknowledged
underestimating, his campaign is facing a different kind of
foreclosure problem on the streets of Florida and other
battleground states, where evictions have left holes in its
voter lists. Volunteers like Acosta are central to the
campaign’s effort to populate its databases with current
addresses and working phone numbers to get out the vote.  Recreating Dynamic  A mix of strong support, demographic trends and record
turnout among Hispanics in the Orlando area was pivotal to
Obama’s 50.9 percent to 48.4 percent victory over Republican
 John McCain  four years ago in Florida, say Obama allies. He’ll
need to recreate that dynamic now to win the state’s 29
electoral votes, the biggest prize of the nine states Obama
flipped from Republican red to Democratic blue four years ago.  “At least in central Florida, he’s got to be at least 66,
67, 68 percent,” among non-Cuban Hispanics, said Darren Soto, a
Democratic state representative whose district includes parts of
Osceola County, where the Puerto Rican population increased 138
percent in the last 10 years, according to U.S. Census data.
“He is going to need to crush it in order to make sure to get
to the levels he is going to need to take the state.”  In the 2008 presidential contest, Obama’s 204,577-vote
victory margin in Florida can be partially explained by his
performance in the Orlando area, where he won 80,464 more
ballots than McCain. In the four surrounding counties -- Lake,
Osceola, Orange and Seminole -- Obama picked up 138,075 more
votes than Senator  John Kerry  did in 2004, when Kerry lost the
state to President  George W. Bush  52.1 percent to 47.1 percent.  Triple the Support  The challenge for Obama in winning Florida again, Soto
said, can be seen in neighborhoods like Buenaventura Lakes,
where he tripled the number of Democratic votes that were cast
for Kerry in 2004.  Today, 9,763 of the 15,207 registered voters identify
themselves as Hispanic, according to the Osceola supervisor of
elections. One in every 131 housing units in the Buenaventura
Lakes zip code was in foreclosure in May, five times higher than
the national average and more than twice as high as the Florida
rate, according to RealtyTrac Inc., an  Irvine , California-based
provider of foreclosure data. Over the last three years, 3,414
properties have had foreclosure filings in Buenaventura Lakes,
almost 30 percent of the 12,033 housing units, according to
RealtyTrac. Obama won the neighborhood 77 percent to 23 percent.  Hispanics were hurt more by foreclosures than other ethnic
groups, at 11.9 percent for loans originated from 2004 to 2008,
more than twice the rate of non-Hispanic whites, according to a
report by the Center for Responsible Lending in Durham,  North
Carolina .  Tracking Voters  Obama is “going to have to be better than good at keeping
track of folks,” said Soto, who also represents many of his
constituents in foreclosure proceedings against banks.  While Obama’s campaign works to find voters who have been
forced from their homes, his administration has struggled to
help homeowners who remain in theirs. A year ago, he said that
his administration has “had to revamp our housing program
several times.”  When Obama unveiled his first plan for the housing crisis
at the outset of his presidency, about one in five borrowers
owed more on their mortgages than their homes were worth. That
number is essentially unchanged, with 24 percent of borrowers
underwater in the first quarter of 2012, according to the real
estate data firm CoreLogic Inc.  Home Construction  Beginning construction of U.S. homes rose more than
forecast in June to the fastest rate in almost four years,
indicating a brighter outlook for the residential real estate
market, the Commerce Department reported today in  Washington .  Addressing a Hispanic group in Orlando last month, Obama
promoted his latest plan, which he unveiled in February, to ease
refinancing requirements by levying a tax on financial companies
that have more than $50 billion in assets. Congress hasn’t acted
on the proposal.  “We need to give families in hard-hit housing markets like
Florida and  Nevada  the chance to refinance,” he told the
National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials
on June 22.  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who said
during his party’s primaries that illegal immigrants should
“self-deport,” has softened his appeal to Hispanic voters and
focused his general election message on how Latinos have fared
in the economy under Obama.  Hispanic Unemployment  “Hispanics have been hit disproportionately hard,” Romney
said in his June 21 address to the National Association of
Latino Elected and Appointed Officials in Orlando.  “While the national  unemployment  is still above 8 percent,
and has been for 40 straight months, Hispanic unemployment is at
11 percent.”  Convincing Hispanics in central Florida that his housing
prescriptions are working is a “daunting task,” said Soto, who
campaigned with Obama in 2008. “He’s not quite yet there.”  That puts more pressure on Obama’s ground game.  To track voters who have moved away, campaign volunteers
divide counties into neighborhoods, instead of precincts, and
report voter contacts back to paid field organizers, who then
update the campaign’s national database. Detective work can only
carry the campaigns so far, said Jim Swan, the independent mayor
of Kissimmee, the incorporated town that includes Buenaventura
Lakes.  Obama Supporters  “If they don’t sign up to vote with the supervisor of
elections, I don’t know where they are,” he said, as he
motioned toward a house with an eviction notice on the front
door. “About 20 percent of housing stock was tied up in
foreclosure, somehow, someway.”  After they have found likely Obama supporters, the task for
the campaign is to make sure they show up on Election Day, which
presents yet another obstacle.  “We’re not in the business in turning the minds of the
Republicans,” Acosta said. “It’s really kind of getting people
who likely to support the president off the couch.”  On Trotters Circle in Kissimmee, a block with boarded-up
homes at each end, Obama needs the ballots of renters like Loida
Montalvo to replace the Democrats who have lost their homes. Ten
houses down from her four-bedroom, $1,000-a-month rambler, Bank
of America has initiated foreclosure proceedings on a house that
was registered to a Democratic primary voter, according to
county records.  First, Obama organizers have to knock on her door. Then
register her.  “My papers to vote haven’t come yet,” said the Cuba-born
Montalvo, a 25-year-old student who became a citizen last July
and said she’s unfamiliar with American voting procedures. “We
are still waiting.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Hans Nichols  in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  