-- Obama Plans National Teachers Corps to Promote Math, Science
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-18T13:38:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/obama-plans-national-teachers-corps-to-promote-math-science.html
President  Barack Obama  today will
propose a national “teachers corps” to reward the nation’s
best educators in science, technology, engineering and math.  In the first year, as many as 2,500 teachers in those
subjects would get $20,000 stipends on top of their base
salaries in exchange for a multiyear commitment to the corps,
White House spokeswoman Sandra Abrevaya said.  The White House plans to expand the group to 10,000
teachers nationwide over four years. The program would be funded
initially with $1 billion from the administration’s fiscal year
2013 budget request, which is subject to approval by Congress.  “If America is going to compete for the jobs and
industries of tomorrow, we need to make sure our children are
getting the best education possible,” Obama said in the
statement. “Teachers matter, and great teachers deserve our
support.”  As part of his campaign for a second term, Obama is vowing
to maintain funding for programs in education and accusing
Republicans of supporting a tax and spending agenda that would
mean cuts.  Incentive Fund  The administration also is designating about $100 million
from an existing teacher incentive fund to help school districts
identify and develop teachers of the sciences. More than 30
school districts have signaled their interest in the program.
The application deadline is July 27.  The goal is to better compensate “highly effective
teachers who can model and mentor” science, technology,
engineering and math instruction, and also better equip students
with the knowledge and skills “necessary for jobs in the high-
growth fields that fuel American innovation,” according to the
statement.  The initiatives were part of a package of recommendations
from the president’s Council of Advisors on Science and
Technology, which urged the government to establish a teacher
corps and retain the most talented instructors to strengthen
that branch of education in U.S. public schools.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  