-- Obesity Fight May Lead to Market-Beating Gains: Chart of the Day
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2012-07-18T04:00:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/obesity-fight-may-lead-to-market-beating-gains-chart-of-the-day.html
Growing obesity worldwide may give
investors a way to fatten their wallets, according to Sarbjit Nahal, a Bank of America Corp. analyst.  Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) ,  Orexigen Therapeutics Inc. (OREX) ,  Stryker Corp. (SYK) ,
 Weight Watchers International Inc. (WTW) ,  Vivus Inc. (VVUS)  and  Zimmer
Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  are among U.S. companies most affected by the
trend, Nahal wrote in a report. All of them have buy ratings
from his colleagues except Weight Watchers, which was cut to
neutral on July 6.  As the CHART OF THE DAY illustrates, an index of these
shares has climbed more than the benchmark Russell 3000 Index
since last year. Each stock’s percentage of the anti-obesity
index is based on closing prices at the end of 2011.  “The global obesity epidemic may be the most pressing
health challenge facing the world today,” Nahal wrote in the
report, published June 21 and made public by Bank of America’s
securities unit two days ago. Excessive weight is one of the top
five causes of death and contributes to disease, he wrote.  Investors seeking to profit ought to focus on companies in
health care, food, weight control and sporting goods, according
to the London-based analyst. His report cited 57 companies
worldwide that stand to benefit.  The index’s six stocks are among 11 that Nahal viewed as
having the most at stake. Only one of the others, Denmark’s  Novo
Nordisk A/S (NOVOB) , has a buy rating. France’s  Danone (BN)  SA and three U.S.
companies,  Arena Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ARNA) , Dole Food Co. and  Seneca
Foods Corp. (SENEB) , are all rated underperform. Buy-rated stocks are
defined as the top picks in their industry, and shares with
underperform ratings are the least attractive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wilson in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  