-- Oil Declines From Seven-Week High on Outlook for China, Europe
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-07-18T12:23:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/oil-declines-from-seven-week-high-on-outlook-for-china-europe.html
Oil fell from a seven-week high in
 New York  on concern that fuel demand may falter after  China 
signaled risks to its economy and as analysts cut profit
forecasts for European companies at the fastest rate since 2009.  Futures slid as much as 0.7 percent after advancing a fifth
day yesterday, the longest run of gains since April. The risk of
job losses in China, the world’s second-biggest crude user, will
become more “severe,” Premier  Wen Jiabao  said, according to a
statement on the government’s website. Profits for companies
included in the Euro Stoxx 50 Index will rise 6.8 percent in
2012, compared with a 19 percent gain predicted at the start of
the year, more than 12,000 estimates compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s not looking strong in China or  Europe ,” said
Torbjoern Kjus, an oil analyst at DnB NOR ASA in Oslo, who
predicts that prices will rebound in the second half as global
demand recovers. “The U.S. has been improving since around
March or April. There have been a couple of drawdowns in crude
inventories and I expect the same later today, though it’s going
to take a long time to get inventories down to last year’s
levels.”  Oil for August delivery dropped as much as 63 cents to
$88.59 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $89.13 at 1:03 p.m. London time. The
contract gained 0.9 percent yesterday to $89.22, the highest
close since May 29. Prices are down 10 percent this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement on the London-based
ICE Futures Europe exchange declined as much as 78 cents, or 0.8
percent, to $103.22 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a $14.60 premium to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade, up from $14.46 yesterday.  OPEC Basket  The price of OPEC’s basket of crudes rose above $100 a
barrel yesterday for the first time since May 31, data from the
organization showed. The Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries’ daily basket price was at $101.29 a barrel, compared
with $99.93 the previous day, according to the data.  Oil in New York climbed too quickly for further gains to be
sustainable, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-day
stochastic oscillators are above 70 for the first time since
March, a level that signals price gains are exaggerated. Sell
orders may be clustered near technical resistance along the
upper Bollinger Band, around $90 a barrel today.  “If $90 can’t be breached then I think we’ll come in for a
bit of a correction lower,”  Jonathan Barratt , the chief
executive officer of Barratt’s Bulletin, a commodity-markets
newsletter in Sydney, said in a telephone interview. “You can
possibly see a pretty ugly scenario from Europe developing.”  Europe Earnings  Euro Stoxx 50 Index companies will earn 240 euros a share
in 2012, 6.8 percent more than in 2011, according to more than
12,000 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from a gain
of 19 percent predicted at the start of the year. The reduction
is the biggest since 2009, when analysts trimmed by 42
percentage points.  Crude has declined this year on concern that Europe’s debt
crisis may derail global economic growth. The European Union
accounted for 16 percent of the world’s oil consumption last
year, according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s annual Statistical Review of World
Energy. The U.S. accounted for 21 percent and China for 11
percent.  Prices rose yesterday after an American Petroleum Institute
report showed U.S. crude inventories fell and Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank is prepared to
act to boost growth if the labor market doesn’t improve.  U.S. Stockpiles  Stockpiles dropped 2 million barrels last week, the
industry-funded API said. An Energy Department report today will
probably show supplies decreased 1.3 million barrels, according
to the median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  Gasoline inventories slid 116,000 barrels, the API said.
They are forecast to increase  1.2 million barrels  in the
government report, according to the survey. Distillate supplies,
a category that includes diesel and heating oil, climbed 3.4
million barrels, compared with a projected 1.3 million-barrel
gain.  The API collects stockpile information on a voluntary basis
from operators of refineries, bulk terminals and pipelines. The
government requires that reports be filed with the Energy
Department for its weekly survey.  Bernanke said tools available for policy-easing include
further asset purchases, cuts in the  interest rate  on bank
reserves kept at the Fed, and changes in its communications on
the outlook for rates. He made the remarks responding to
questions during testimony to the Senate Banking Committee in
 Washington .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  