-- Oil Rises a Seventh Day on Gasoline Stockpiles, Housing
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-07-19T07:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/oil-trades-near-seven-week-high-on-gasoline-stockpiles-housing.html
Oil rose a seventh day in  New York ,
the longest run of gains since February, after U.S. gasoline
supplies unexpectedly shrank and housing starts climbed,
signaling fuel demand may increase amid an economic recovery.  Futures advanced as much as 1 percent to the highest level
in seven weeks. Gasoline stockpiles decreased 1.8 million
barrels last week, the Energy Department said in a report. They
were forecast to climb by 1.2 million, according to a Bloomberg
News survey. Crude inventories also fell and a measure of
petroleum consumption rose for the third week. New U.S. home
construction increased in June to the highest level in almost
four years, figures from the Commerce Department showed.  “Market sentiment has turned more optimistic across the
board,” said  Victor Shum , the managing director of IHS
Consulting in  Singapore . “The U.S. oil inventory report showed
draws in both crude oil and gasoline inventories. That is
supportive for prices.”  Oil for August delivery gained as much as 85 cents to
$90.72 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $90.58 at 3:03 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract expires tomorrow, and the more active September future
was up 70 cents at $90.87. Front-month prices gained 65 cents to
$89.87 yesterday, the highest close since May 29, and are 8.4
percent lower this year.  Brent crude  for September settlement was at $106.17 a
barrel, up 1 percent, on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The European benchmark contract was at a premium to
West Texas Intermediate of $15.30, from $14.99 yesterday.  Oil Stockpiles  U.S. oil  demand  averaged almost 19 million barrels a day in
the past four weeks, up 0.4 percent, for a third consecutive
year-on-year increase, the Energy Department report showed
yesterday. Consumption in the past seven days rose 0.3 percent
week-on-week to 18.6 million barrels a day.  Crude stockpiles dropped  809,000 barrels , according to the
report. They were forecast to slip 1.3 million barrels, the
median estimate of 10 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News
showed. Distillate inventories, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, increased  2.6 million barrels , compared with a
projected gain of 1.3 million.  Housing starts  climbed 6.9 percent to a 760,000 annual pace
after a revised 711,000 rate in May that was faster than
initially estimated, the Commerce Department reported in
 Washington  yesterday. The median forecast of 79 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News called for 745,000.  Technical Resistance  “U.S. inventory figures are doing the right thing,” said
Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in Sydney.
“Housing is an area of the  U.S. economy  where we have seen what
looks to be quite a step-up in growth in recent months, so
that’s a mild positive.”  Oil in New York has technical resistance along its upper
Bollinger Band, about $90.67 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Sell orders tend to be clustered near
chart-resistance levels. Crude’s 30-day stochastic oscillators
have risen above 70, a level that signals gains in futures are
exaggerated. Today’s reading is 81.1, the highest since March 6.  Crude’s decline this year has slowed a record expansion of
U.S. oil drilling. The nation’s rig count rose 7.8 percent in
the three months ended June 30, down from 18 percent a year
earlier and the third-lowest quarterly increase since March
2009, according to  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , a Houston oil-services
company. Horizontal rigs dropped last week for the first time
since May, said Smith Bits, a unit of Huston-based  Schlumberger
Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield-services provider.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  