-- Olympics $14 Billion Turns Junkyard Into Meadow, Studios
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-07-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/olympics-14-billion-turns-junkyard-into-meadow-artist-studios.html
I can see a bit of the  London 
Olympic Stadium as traffic roars next to me along the busy
Stratford High Street.  I’m in a neighborhood that is supposed to benefit from
London’s 9.3-billion pound ($14.5 billion) investment in the
games, which open on July 27. It has a way to go.  London hasn’t built a showy assortment of stadiums and
arenas. It has created “a piece of city,” on the 600-acre (80
hectare) main games site, according to Richard Burdett, a former
adviser to the Olympic Delivery Authority who directs the  London
School  of Economics’ Cities program.  For a slideshow of the development area, click  here .  Organizers targeted London’s games investment to unleash a
wave of growth in largely poor, isolated east London
neighborhoods. The  London Legacy  Development Corporation takes
charge when the games end.  For all the cash, success is hardly assured.  I learn that on my walk along the busy street with Jamie
Hodge, the communications manager of the  Stratford Renaissance
Partnership .  Amid worn social-housing towers and empty storefronts, you
can already see new residential developments that offer views to
what will become the lush meadows and waterways of the Queen
Elizabeth Olympic Park.  Developers are also drawn by transportation investments
that now bring nine tube and regional-rail lines to the Olympic
park’s main entrance at Stratford. Trains whisk people from
central London’s St. Pancras station in less than 10 minutes.  Mall Fortress  Unfortunately, spectators will first encounter the
needlessly fortresslike  Westfield Stratford City  mall. It won’t
be easy to get them to venture into the neighborhood.  A nearby 26-acre site covered with derelict industrial
buildings has greater revitalizing potential.  LandProp, an investment arm of the Ikea home-furnishings
chain, has begun renovating historic buildings for housing and
commercial space designed to attract tech firms and designers.
The Copenhagen urban designer Jan Gehl, known for helping to
make  New York  City streets friendly to pedestrians, is a
consultant.  Hodge guides me along winding streets to a 1776 mill driven
by the tidal waters of Bow Creek and a restored peaked-roof
early 19th-century distillery. This part of London cradled the
industrial revolution and industry has shaped the area ever
since.  Unexploded Bomb  To prepare the site, organizers dismantled an enormous rail
yard, removed piles of spare tires, and cleaned polluted soils
(where an unexploded bomb from World War II was found).  A portion of the future park has been prepared for the
games. It could be as alluring as any in London’s impressive
portfolio.  Landscape architect  George Hargreaves  has brought meadows,
lines of low forest, and water-loving shrubs right to the edge
of the Lea River and tributary waterways that lace the park.  After the games, the permanent venues will remain as
landmarks amid greenery while bands of new commercial and
residential development will extend like fingers into the park
from surrounding neighborhoods.  I don’t see the drooping tubular-steel ArcelorMittal Orbit
by  Anish Kapoor  becoming the hoped-for visitor magnet.  The  Olympic Delivery Authority  estimates that 75 percent of
its  capital investment  will serve subsequent uses.  Future Clubs  A walk through Fish Island and  Hackney Wick , neighborhoods
just to the west of the games site, offer a glimmer of the
future. Brick industrial buildings are getting makeovers for
clubs and artist studios.  Trees gracefully overhang a peaceful biking and walking
trail along a canal that edges the games site. It had long been
an industrial sewer. The  Olympics makeover  will extend the
publicly accessible waterways to six kilometers.  The canals and railway lines will be spanned by some 30 new
bike and vehicular bridges. They will link the neighborhoods to
development sites, one of which is the massive Olympics
broadcast center. It may house studios or tech startups.  The organizers prepared 200 acres for private development,
which makes me wonder if it will become a chic realm unto itself
(like the massive mall), rather than spurring growth beyond the
site.  I visit a commercial street in Leyton, historically short
on good jobs, where storefront signs hawk goods in a dizzying
variety of scripts and languages. A couple of cross streets lead
toward the 2,800 apartments of the athletes’ village.  Mediocre Design  The development is supposed to link Leyton to the luscious
parklands, but the mediocre apartment-building design and ennui-
inducing streetscape is not the way to lure locals, nor draw a
projected total of 9 million annual visitors.  While Hodge spoke of promised additional investments in
education and social services, those may be hard to maintain
with Britain’s economy still strapped. Success can’t fairly be
measured for years, Burdett told me.  Many will be watching. Urban revitalization at this scale
and with this cash is all but unknown.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and  Rich
Jaroslovsky  on technology.  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in London at  jamesrussell@earthlink.net .
 http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at   mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 