-- London Hotel Surge Seen Slowing Price Growth After Games
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-07-18T12:51:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/london-hotel-surge-seen-slowing-price-growth-after-games.html
London  hoteliers will probably have
slower revenue growth next year as a surge of new rooms combines
with a decline in rates and visitors after the  Olympic Games .  About 7,000 rooms will be added this year, a 6.7 percent
gain, bringing London’s total to 114,000 by the end of 2012,
Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels said in a report. An additional 5,400
rooms, a 4.8 percent increase, are expected in 2013. That
compares to average annual supply growth of 2.4 percent from
2003 to 2011, according to the company, part of Chicago-based
broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc.  London ranks among Europe’s most resilient hotel markets as
many of its neighbors struggle with the effects of financial-
market turmoil and the sovereign-debt crisis. While the city
will continue to be a top destination, gains in revenue per
available room, a measure of occupancy and rate, will probably
shrink as the high demand from the Olympics is unlikely to be
sustained, a Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels survey showed in May.  “You will see a bit of a softening of prices and a
slowdown in rate growth,” Jon Hubbard, chief executive officer
for Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels’s  Europe ,  Middle East  and Africa
region, said in a telephone interview. “But with market demand
as low as it has been in the past few years, and the restraint
in lending, London has been somewhat undersupplied and is in a
position to absorb this new supply over the coming years.”  Rates Soar  For the Olympic Games, which run from July 27 to Aug. 12,
average room rates across London have soared 69 percent from a
year earlier to 189 pounds ($295), research and consulting
company  TravelClick Inc.  said in a report this week.  London had a 78 percent hotel occupancy rate this year
through May, the highest among the top 31 European cities,
according to lodging-data provider  STR Global . It ranked fifth
in average nightly rates behind Geneva, Paris, Zurich and  Tel
Aviv , STR Global said.  London occupancy during July and August usually ranges
between 80 percent and 90 percent, according to the Jones Lang
report, which didn’t give a specific forecast for occupancy
during the Olympic Games.  The  Lanesborough , a luxury hotel near  Buckingham Palace , is
fully booked for the games, Malin Lund, a spokeswoman, said
yesterday. That includes a suite for 14,000 pounds a night, the
most expensive in London, that comes with a complimentary
chauffeur-driven Rolls-Royce Phantom.  Olympic Visitors  About 320,000 visitors will converge on the U.K. capital
for the games, many of them competing with invitees of Britain
and the  International Olympic Committee  for hotel rooms,
according to April estimates by the government’s  VisitBritain 
office.  New properties this year include  Marriott International
Inc. (MAR) ’s Bulgari Hotel & Residences, which opened in the second
quarter in the city’s Knightsbridge neighborhood.  Travelodge Ltd., London’s biggest hotelier, opened its
500th U.K. property in Stratford, home of the Olympic Stadium,
on March 4 and planned to start service at another six in the
city before the event begins. Travelodge last month advertised
discounted prices ranging from 25.50 pounds to 95 pounds for
stays from July 26 to Sept. 9, according to an e-mail promotion.  Intercontinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) , the official hotel
provider for the Olympics, is scheduled to open the 245-room
InterContinental London Westminster in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  