-- London Cabs’ VIP-Lane Protest to Snarl Roads for Olympic Opening
-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e   a n d   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-07-18T14:32:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/london-cabs-vip-lane-protest-to-snarl-roads-for-olympic-opening.html
London ’s black-cab drivers plan to
block traffic on the day of next week’s Olympic opening ceremony
if their taxis remain barred from highway lanes set aside for
athletes, officials and media attending the Games.  Drivers will stage a protest in  Parliament Square , central
London, on July 23, with about 400 vehicles likely to take part,
double the total involved in a first rally yesterday, according
to Cabbies Against Boris, which takes its name from London Mayor
 Boris Johnson . A third demonstration will be staged on July 27,
the day of the Opening ceremony, spokesman Dave Davies said.  Campaigners say black cabs should at least have access to
so-called Games Lanes if they’re carrying the disabled,
elderly or families with small children. Under Transport for
London rules, designated lanes will close to traffic unconnected
with the Games at various times between 6 a.m. and midnight.  “TfL, in an arrogant and belligerent manner, is excluding
us from doing our job,” Davies said by telephone. “Both the
mayor of London and the Olympic committee used black cabs to
promote the city when London entered the bid for the Games.”  Cabbies will continue their action during the Games unless
the government intervenes to grant taxis the same access as
buses that have been hired to carry participants, he said.  Bus companies responsible for taking athletes from  Heathrow
airport  to the stadium and Olympic village in Stratford, east
London, are “becoming familiar” with routes after lengthy delays
as drivers became lost, Olympic organizers said yesterday.  The first Games Lane is already operating on the M4
motorway near Heathrow, with the full system linking various
Olympic sites due to become operational on July 25. Most of the 
wider Olympic Route Network, designed to speed traffic during 
the event, will remain open to all vehicles.  London organizing committee Locog declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at   dlytle@bloomberg.net ;
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  