-- Morgans Puts Miami Beach’s Luxury Delano Hotel on Market
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2012-07-18T17:25:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/morgans-puts-miami-beach-s-luxury-delano-hotel-on-market.html
Morgans Hotel Group Co. (MHGC) , which
operates the Royalton and Mondrian boutique brands, put its 195-
room Delano South Beach property in Miami Beach, Florida, on the
market, according to the broker with the listing.  The New York-based hotelier hired Jones Lang LaSalle Hotels
to market the property,  Jeffrey Davis , a managing director at
the brokerage, said in an e-mail today. Morgans in March
completed a $10.8 million renovation of the property, including
work on public areas and the makeover of its Bianca restaurant.  “Our focus is on building out our management business, and
part of this strategy is to monetize our investments in real
estate,” Morgans Chief Executive Officer  Michael Gross  said in
an e-mail today. He declined to comment on the listing of Delano
South Beach.  Morgans has been selling some properties and using the
proceeds to expand its management operations. The company last
year sold the Mondrian Los Angeles to  Pebblebrook Hotel Trust (PEB) 
for $137 million. The hotel was developed by  Ian Schrager , the
Morgans founder who left the company in 2005.  The Delano South Beach listing was reported earlier today
by Real Estate Alert. The property has an estimated value of
$200 million, or about $1 million a room, the newsletter said,
without citing a source for the figure.  Another luxury hotel in the city, the 1,504-room
Fontainebleau Miami Beach, was appraised at $1.1 billion, or
about $731,000 a room, as part of an April refinancing,
according to data from New York-based research company Real
Capital Analytics Inc.  Occupancies at hotels in Florida were the third-highest in
the U.S., at 71 percent this year through April, behind only
Hawaii and Washington, D.C., according to  Smith Travel Research
Inc.  Luxury hotels, a category that includes Delano South Beach,
had the highest occupancies, at 72 percent, among the seven
segments tracked by the Hendersonville, Tennessee-based data
company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  