-- Home Starts in U.S. Rise to Highest Level Since 2008
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-18T23:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/housing-starts-in-u-s-rose-in-june-to-highest-level-since-2008.html
New U.S. home construction rose in
June to the highest level in almost four years, indicating the
residential real estate market is strengthening even as other
parts of the economy cool.  Housing starts  rose 6.9 percent to a 760,000 annual pace
after a revised 711,000 rate in May that was faster than
initially estimated, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 745,000 rate.  Record-low mortgage rates and cheaper properties are luring
buyers, prompting builders such as  Ryland Group Inc. (RYL)  to boost
construction. The gain underscores comments by Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  that the industry is on the mend, three
years since the start of the expansion.  “Low borrowing costs certainly help at the margin, but the
biggest thing is affordability in terms of the pricing,” said
 Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont Securities LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , who correctly forecast June starts.
Housing is “making a very modest contribution to growth.
Unfortunately, it feels like everything around it is
crumbling.”  The June pace was the fastest since October 2008, and
estimates in the Bloomberg survey ranged from 710,000 to
800,000. Ground-breaking on new homes in May was revised from a
previously reported 708,000.  Building permits  fell in June, reflecting a drop in
applications for apartment construction.  Stocks Rise  Stocks climbed on the report and as technology and
industrial companies gained. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
increased 0.7 percent to 1,372.78 at the close of trading in  New
York .  Elsewhere, the  Bank of England  has joined counterparts
around the world in expanding measures to support growth as the
threat from the euro-area turmoil increases.  The Monetary Policy Committee said while the arguments for
and against cutting the benchmark rate from the current record
low of 0.5 percent hadn’t changed since June, they may be
reviewed in the coming months, according to the minutes of its
July 4-5 meeting. The MPC voted 7-2 to increase quantitative
easing by 50 billion pounds ($78 billion) to 375 billion pounds
at the meeting.  Bernanke, in his semi-annual testimony to Congress on
monetary policy, said the U.S. also has tools at its disposal in
case the economic recovery fails to stoke job gains. He said
yesterday that housing is improving.  Fed’s Bernanke  Growth in construction and “historically low  mortgage
rates ” are among “modest signs” of a housing recovery, even
as buyers show concern about personal finances and the broader
economy and have difficulty meeting lending standards, Bernanke
told the Senate Banking Committee.  Residential investment  added  0.42 percentage point to
economic growth in the first three months of the year, the most
since the second quarter of 2010, according to Commerce
Department figures.  Figures earlier this week showed retail sales dropped in
June for a third month, a sign slower job creation is taking a
toll on the biggest part of the economy.  Construction of  single-family houses  increased 4.7 percent
to a 539,000 rate, the fastest since April 2010, from 515,000 a
month earlier, today’s figures showed. Work on apartment
buildings and other  multifamily  units climbed 12.8 percent to an
annual rate of 221,000 in June from 196,000 a month earlier.  By Region  Two of four regions had an increase in overall starts in
June, including a 36.9 percent jump in the West to a 219,000
annual rate, the fastest since April 2008. Starts climbed 22.2
percent in the Northeast.  “We are seeing different improvements in different parts
of the country, but we’re seeing improvement everywhere,” Larry Nicholson, president and chief executive officer at West Lake
Village, California-based builder Ryland Group, said on a June
13 conference call. “So that’s the key there.”  A report yesterday showed confidence among U.S.
 homebuilders  climbed in July by the most since September 2002.
An index of builder sentiment from the  National Association of
Home Builders /Wells Fargo increased by 6 points in July to 35.  One reason for optimism is falling  interest rates  have
helped make homes more affordable. The average 30-year, fixed
 mortgage rate  declined to 3.56 percent last week, the lowest in
data going back to 1972, according to McLean, Virginia-based
 Freddie Mac .  ‘Steady Recovery’  “Evidence from the field suggests that the ‘for sale’
housing market has, in fact, bottomed and that we have commenced
a slow and steady recovery process,”  Stuart Miller , chief
executive officer at  Lennar Corp. (LEN) , the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, said in a June 27 statement.  Home prices  are stabilizing and starting to increase. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of  property values  adjusted for seasonal
variations rose 0.7 percent in April, the third straight gain.
Stronger home sales will bolster producers of building
materials.  At the same time, limited employment opportunities and
competition from distressed properties are challenges for a
housing market that’s struggled to gain momentum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  