-- Housing Starts in U.S. Probably Climbed in June as Rates Fell
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/housing-starts-in-u-s-probably-climbed-in-june-as-rates-fell.html
Builders probably broke ground on
U.S. homes in June at the fastest pace in almost four years,
indicating the outlook for residential real estate is
brightening, economists said before a report today.  Housing starts  rose 5.2 percent last month to a 745,000
annual pace, the strongest since October 2008, according to the
median estimate of 79 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Building permits, a proxy for future construction, dropped 2.4
percent to a 765,000 rate, the survey showed.  Record-low  mortgage rates  and cheaper properties are
attracting buyers, encouraging builders faced with lean
inventories to boost construction. At the same time, limited
employment opportunities and competition from distressed
properties are hurdles for the industry.  “The long-awaited housing market recovery is definitely
under way as demand is improving,” said  Stuart Hoffman , chief
economist at PNC Financial Services Group in Pittsburgh.
“Continued growth in the number of households, pent-up demand,
very low prices and  mortgage rates  that have resulted in record-
high affordability” are underpinning demand, he said.  The housing starts figures are due from the Commerce
Department at 8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the
Bloomberg survey for June ranged from 710,000 to 800,000.  A report yesterday showed confidence among U.S.
 homebuilders  climbed in July by the most since September 2002.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index of
sentiment increased by 6 points to 35 this month as sales and
buyer traffic improvement.  Fed’s Bernanke  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke , in testimony
yesterday to Congress, indicated the industry was on the mend.  Growth in construction and “historically low mortgage
rates” are among “modest signs” of a housing recovery, even
as buyers show concern about personal finances and the broader
economy and have difficulty meeting lending standards, Bernanke
said.  The average 30-year, fixed mortgage rate declined to 3.56
percent last week, the lowest in data going back to 1972,
according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .  “Evidence from the field suggests that the ‘for sale’
housing market has, in fact, bottomed and that we have commenced
a slow and steady recovery process,”  Stuart Miller , chief
executive officer at Lennar Corp., the third-largest U.S.
homebuilder by revenue, said in a June 27 statement.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Homebuilding Index,
which includes D.R. Horton Inc. and PulteGroup Inc., has climbed
52 percent this year, outpacing an 8.4 percent gain in the
broader  S&P 500 Index .  ‘Improvement Everywhere’  “We are seeing different improvements in different parts
of the country, but we’re seeing improvement everywhere,” Larry
Nicholson, president and chief executive officer at West Lake
Village, California-based builder Ryland Group Inc., said on a
June 13 conference call. “So that’s the key there.”  Home prices  are stabilizing and starting to increase. The
S&P/Case-Shiller index of  property values  adjusted for seasonal
variations rose 0.7 percent in April, the third straight gain. A
pickup in home sales may help spur gains in building materials.  “As we start to move prices up, it starts to draw people
off the sidelines who are potential homebuyers, people that are
at the age they should be buying a house, but they’ve been
concerned about a further decline in prices,” Daniel Fulton,
chairman and chief executive officer of forest-products company
 Weyerhaeuser Co. (WY) , said at a June 13 conference. “So we’re
starting to see some increase in activity.”  At the same time, foreclosures are hindering the housing
rebound. Initial notices, the start of the process, jumped 6
percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the first
annual increase since 2009, according to RealtyTrac Inc., a real
estate data provider in  Irvine ,  California .  The increase may reflect February’s $25 billion settlement
among 49 state attorneys general and the five major mortgage
servicers for improper and fraudulent paperwork related to
foreclosures, according to a Bloomberg Government study. The
pace of foreclosures had slowed for at least a year while the
settlement was being resolved.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Jamrisko in  Washington  at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  