-- P&G Board Says It Supports CEO McDonald Amid Turnaround Plan
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-07-18T20:23:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/p-g-board-says-it-supports-ceo-mcdonald-amid-turnaround-plan.html
Procter & Gamble Co. (PG) ’s board,
responding to reports that it discussed whether to replace Chief
Executive Officer  Robert McDonald , said it unanimously supports
him and his plan to improve the company’s results.  The board also is monitoring the plan’s effectiveness, the
Cincinnati-based company said today in a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  P&G directors have been dissatisfied with McDonald’s
performance and had discussed a possible leadership change,
people familiar with the situation have told Bloomberg News.
Activist investor  Bill Ackman , whose plan to take a stake in P&G
was approved by regulators last week, intends to press for
management changes and is seeking more investors to join his
push, the people said.  McDonald has “about another year’s grace period,”
Victoria Collin, an analyst at Atlantic Equities in  London  who
rates P&G neutral, the equivalent of a hold, said today in a
telephone interview. “It’s difficult to implement such a change
on a company the scale of P&G.”  McDonald, 59, has been CEO for about three years and came
under fire from analysts earlier this year when P&G lost market
share to competitors. The maker of Tide laundry detergent and
Duracell batteries has cut its profit forecast three times this
year even as competitors reaffirmed their projections. P&G’s
most recent reduction in its outlook came last month, with the
company citing currency fluctuations and rising commodity costs.  $10 Billion  McDonald in February announced a plan to reduce $10 billion
in expenses through 2016 by cutting headcount and streamlining
operations.  Ali Dibadj , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., has said the planned savings would be closer to $4 billion.  The shares fell 0.8 percent to $64.82 at the close in New
York. They have slid 2.8 percent this year.  Ackman, who said his P&G stake is his largest initial
investment ever, this year won an effort to remove  Canadian
Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP)  CEO  Fred Green  and replace him with Hunter Harrison. Ackman also pushed Fortune Brands Inc. to break up,
and the company last year split into spirits maker  Beam Inc. (BEAM)  and
a company that sells home products such as faucets and locks.  Ackman’s P&G stake was valued at about $2 billion, a person
familiar with the matter has said. Ackman didn’t immediately
respond to e-mail and telephone messages seeking comment today.  “There was a sense of urgency around the headquarters in
Cincinnati, but clearly that sense of urgency has gone way up
with the news” of Ackman’s stake,  Jack Russo , an analyst at
Edward Jones & Co., said today in a telephone interview.
Management is “going to have to respond a little bit more
specifically to all this” when it reports earnings next month.  Berkshire Hathaway  P&G’s other shareholders include  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/B) ,
led by billionaire  Warren Buffett . The firm held a stake of
about 73.3 million shares, or 2.7 percent, as of March 31,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s down from 76.8
million at the end of 2011.  McDonald took over P&G’s top job in July 2009 after serving
as chief operating officer. A West Point graduate, McDonald rose
to lead the company’s Northeast Asia operations in 1999 after
stints in the Philippines and Japan. In 2001, he became
president of the global fabric and home-care business. Three
years later, he was made vice chairman for global operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  