-- Pakistan Targets $2.5 Billion of Overseas Investment in Energy
-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-07-18T11:52:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/pakistan-targets-2-5-billion-of-overseas-investment-in-energy.html
Pakistan  may receive the most
overseas investment in four years as companies set up wind and
coal generation plants, helping curb the nation’s record energy
shortage, a government agency official said.  “Pakistan serves as the gateway to Iran, central  Asia  and
even  India  so we have a lot of potential to attract foreign
investment,” Mohammad Zubair Motiwala, chairman, Sindh Board of
Investment, said in an interview in Karachi today. “Energy is a
field where an investor can come and really make money.”  Pakistan needs to increase overseas investment to help meet
an economic growth target of 4.3 percent in the year that began
July 1. Power outages lasting as long as 18 hours a day have led
to factory shutdowns and riots across the nation.  Foreign direct investment may rise to $2.5 billion in the
year that began July 1, mostly in energy, said Motiwala, 56.
That would be the highest since the 12 months ended June 30,
2009, when overseas companies invested $3.7 billion. Overseas
investment declined 50 percent to $813 million in the year ended
June 30, according to the central bank.  Norway’s NBT AS and Malaysia’s Malakoff Corp. Bhd signed an
agreement with Pakistan yesterday to build a $600 million wind
power plant in the southern province of Sindh that will generate
500 megawatts a day within 18 months, Motiwala said.  South Korea ,  China  and India are among the countries “most
interested” to invest in Pakistan, he said.  Pakistan’s $200 billion economy faces the fastest inflation
in Asia, an insurgency on the Afghan border and reduced aid
flows. Political tension has increased after a dispute between
civilian leaders and the judiciary led to Yousuf Raza Gilani’s
ouster as prime minister last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Merritt  at 
 dmerritt1@bloomberg.net  