-- Palo Alto Networks Seeking Twice Price of Peers in IPO
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-07-18T21:02:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/palo-alto-networks-seeking-twice-price-of-peers-in-ipo.html
Palo Alto  Networks Inc. is betting
its growth prospects will justify a valuation that’s almost
double the multiple for its rivals as it leads the busiest week
for U.S. initial public offerings since April.  The provider of Internet-firewall technology plans to raise
as much as $248 million in a share sale scheduled for July 19.
The midpoint of the  price range  values  Santa Clara , California-
based Palo Alto at about 12 times sales in the 12 months through
April, compared with an average of 6.2 times for competitors,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Revenue at Palo Alto, led by Chief Executive Officer Mark McLaughlin, has surged at least 57-fold since 2008 as more
businesses invest to shield their networks from outside threats.
That pace may make the company more attractive to growth-focused
investors than larger competitors such as  Intel Corp . and Cisco
Systems Inc., said  Greenwood Capital ’s  Walter Todd .  “People are actively seeking out the next big thing in
technology,” said Todd, who oversees about $940 million as
chief investment officer at the Greenwood, South Carolina-based
firm. “People are willing to pay a premium for growth when it’s
scarce.”  Online-travel company  Kayak Software Corp. (KYAK) , Fender Musical
Instruments Corp., teen retailer  Five Below Inc. (FIVE)  and Durata
Therapeutics Inc. also are going public this week, adding up to
the most U.S. IPOs since the week of April 30. The sales, which
may raise more than $700 million, will test whether the U.S.
market can sustain a recovery following a monthlong drought in
the wake of Facebook Inc.’s disappointing IPO in May.  Continued Pickup  At least eight U.S. IPOs are scheduled for next week, from
companies including eatery operators Chuy’s Holdings Inc. and
Del Frisco’s Restaurant Group Inc., bolstering the pickup. The
week’s offerings seek to raise more than $923 million combined,
Bloomberg data show.  Palo Alto’s similar-sized peers such as Juniper Networks
Inc. and Check Point Software Technologies Ltd. trade at an
average of about 6.2 times last year’s sales, Bloomberg data
show. Cisco trades at a multiple of 2 and Intel at 2.4.  While Palo Alto is asking investors to value it more richly
than peers, its sales multiple is still less than half the 26
times revenue at which  Menlo Park , California-based Facebook
went public. Facebook sank as much as 32 percent within a month
of its IPO.  Underwriters ‘Reset’  That may have swayed technology companies to temper lofty
ambitions. Cloud-based software maker  ServiceNow Inc. (NOW) , which
originally sought to sell shares at a valuation of 13 times
sales in its June 28 IPO, surged 37 percent on its first day of
trading. Morgan Stanley, which has the lead role on offerings
for both Palo Alto and Kayak, also managed the sales for
Facebook and San Diego-based ServiceNow.  “Underwriters are taking an opportunity now to reset after
what was a pretty rocky period right after Facebook,” said
Christopher Casey, a managing director at SuttonBrook Capital
Management LP, the New York-based hedge fund. “You’re much more
interested and willing to pay up for what you think future
revenue growth and growth in margins might be in two or three
years. You’re buying into the growth story.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index is  trading  3.3 percent
below its 2012 high amid concern corporate profits are
shrinking. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg project that earnings
at S&P 500 companies fell last quarter for the first time since
2009.  Security Growth  Palo Alto, meanwhile, has shown improvement. Net income in
the nine months ended April 30 was $5.34 million, compared with
a loss a year earlier, with sales for that period approaching
$180 million. The global market for enterprise network security
may rise to $12.5 billion by 2015 from $10 billion this year,
Palo Alto said in its filing, citing IDC.  Palo Alto and its investors are offering 6.2 million shares
at $38 to $40 each, indicating a market value of about $2.6
billion at the midpoint of the range. Founded in 2005, the
company is offering 4.69 million shares, while existing holders
are offering the rest.  Venture firms  Greylock Partners  and  Sequoia Capital  aren’t
selling shares and combined will own more than 41 percent of
Palo Alto after the sale. The stock will list on the  New York 
Stock Exchange under the symbol PANW.  Kayak Offering  Fellow technology company Kayak is scheduled to price July
19 alongside Palo Alto. Kayak, the operator of a travel website
that first filed to go public in November 2010, is seeking as
much as $87.5 million offering 3.5 million shares for $22 to $25
each.  The midpoint of the offering range would value Norwalk,
Connecticut-based Kayak at $906 million, or about 3.7 times
 sales  of $245 million in the year ended March 31, according to
Bloomberg data. That’s 27 percent more than the median multiple
of 2.9 for competitors such as Expedia Inc., TripAdvisor Inc.
and Travelzoo Inc., the data show. Kayak will list on the  Nasdaq 
Stock Market under the symbol KYAK.  Technology companies aren’t the only ones braving the
market. Fender, the largest seller of guitars in the U.S., plans
to raise as much as $160.7 million in its offering, also set for
July 19. The maker of the Stratocaster model, used by musicians
such as  Eric Clapton  and  Jimi Hendrix , is offering 10.7 million
shares at $13 to $15 each.  Selling Fender  Weston Presidio, the San Francisco-based buyout firm that
holds the biggest stake in Fender, is paring its ownership to
about 18 percent from 43 percent as part of the sale, filings
show. At the midpoint of Fender’s range, the company would be
valued at $369 million, or about 0.5 times sales of $704 million
in the 12 months through April 1, Bloomberg data show.  That’s similar to the multiple of 0.4 for  Yamaha Corp. (7951) , the
Tokyo-listed maker of guitars, electronic keyboards, golf
products and automotive interiors, according to Bloomberg data.
Other guitar makers Fender names as competitors, such as Gibson
Guitar Corp. and Taylor Guitars, are closely held. Fender will
list on the Nasdaq Stock Market under the symbol FNDR.  Five Below, which sells clothes, toys and candy to
teenagers for $5 or less, is seeking as much as $163.5 million
offering 9.62 million shares for $15 to $17 each. Five Below is
selling half of the stock in the IPO to repay debt, while
existing holders are offering the rest.  London-based private-equity owner Advent International
Corp., which is selling 2.8 million shares, will retain 52
percent of Five Below after the sale. The stock will be listed
on the Nasdaq under the symbol FIVE.  ‘Hyper-Growth’  The midpoint of the range would value Philadelphia-based
Five Below at $863 million, or about 2.7 times  sales  and 62
times net income in the 12 months through April 1, Bloomberg
data show. That’s more than triple the average price-to-sales
ratio of 0.8 and earnings multiple of 20 for retailers such as
Dollar General Corp., Dollar Tree Inc. and Big Lots Inc.,
according to Bloomberg data.  “In the case of Five Below, it’s a hyper-growth specialty
retailer,” said SuttonBrook’s Casey. “It’s not unforeseeable
that their revenue base could double over the next two and a
half to three years.”  Durata Therapeutics is scheduled to kick off the pricings
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company,
which develops treatments for skin infections, plans to raise as
much as $81.25 million selling shares at $11 to $13 apiece.  “You might expect some of these companies would wait a
little longer for a slightly better market,” said  Richard Sichel , who oversees $1.6 billion as chief investment officer at
Philadelphia Trust Co. “It’s an encouraging sign to see a
number of companies coming.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  