-- Penn State to Answer NCAA as Possible Sandusky Penalties Loom
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/penn-state-to-answer-ncaa-as-possible-sandusky-penalties-loom.html
Penn State  University soon will
respond and meet with the  National Collegiate Athletic
Association , which is considering severe penalties against the
Nittany Lions’ athletic program after a report determined school
officials covered up a child sex-abuse scandal involving former
assistant football coach Jerry Sandusky.  Penn State President Rodney Erickson told reporters
yesterday that the university will compose a response to the
NCAA’s request for information over the next several days.  Erickson said he didn’t want to “jump to any conclusions”
about whether possible sanctions from college sports’ governing
body might include the so-called death penalty, which could shut
down Penn State’s athletic program for ethics violations. NCAA
President  Mark Emmert , in a July 16 interview with the Public
Broadcasting Service, said while a decision on penalties
wouldn’t be made until charges against Penn State are
determined, no sanctions are off the table.  “Let’s not get ahead of ourselves here,” Erickson told
the Associated Press yesterday. “Let’s wait for this process to
unfold. President Emmert has said that the NCAA will take a
deliberate and deliberative process in addressing this, so I
don’t think we should jump to any conclusions at this point.”  Emmert and the NCAA are awaiting Penn State’s response to
the investigation conducted by former Federal Bureau of
Investigation Director  Louis Freeh . The report released last
week said the school’s top executives, including former
university President  Graham Spanier  and football coach  Joe Paterno , concealed Sandusky’s sexual abuse of children to
protect the school from “bad publicity.”  ‘Egregious’ Behavior  “I have never seen anything as egregious as this in terms
of just overall conduct and behavior inside a university and
hope to never see it again,” Emmert said in an interview on
PBS’s “Tavis Smiley” program.  David La Torre of La Torre Communications, an independent
public relations firm working with the school, confirmed
Erickson’s comments to reporters yesterday. La Torre said in an
e-mail that Penn State has maintained an “open dialogue” with
the NCAA, and will answer all of the association’s questions
following a thorough review of Freeh’s report.  La Torre also said yesterday that Penn State officials will
decide in the next seven to 10 days whether to remove an on-
campus statue of Paterno, who was fired in November after
charges were filed against Sandusky. The Nittany Lions’ coach
for 46 years and the winner of a Division I-record 409 games,
Paterno died of  lung cancer  in January at age 85.  Two days ago, the group that manages the pre-gameday
encampment of students at Beaver Stadium known as
“Paternoville,” in honor of the former football coach, changed
the location’s name to “Nittanyville.”  Awaiting Sentencing  The 68-year-old Sandusky, who spent 31 seasons as a
defensive assistant under Paterno, was convicted last month on
45 criminal counts tied to the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year
period and is awaiting sentencing.  “Our most saddening and sobering finding is the total
disregard for the safety and welfare of Sandusky’s child victims
by the most senior leaders at Penn State,” Freeh said at a July
12 news conference in Philadelphia. “The most powerful men at
Penn State failed to take any steps for 14 years to protect the
children who Sandusky victimized.”  Attorneys for Spanier say the Freeh report “contained
numerous inaccuracies and reached conclusions that are not
supported by the data,” without providing details. Paterno’s
family said in a statement that it also disputed some of Freeh’s
findings and was conducting its own review.  Penalties Loom  Emmert didn’t imply whether the NCAA’s penalties would be
targeted at the football program or the entire athletic
department, since then-athletic director Tim Curley was
allegedly involved in the cover-up with other school officials.  Mike McCann, director of the Sports Law Institute at
 Vermont Law School , said the NCAA likely will give more weight
to the behavior of the athletic director and university
executives than focus on Sandusky and Paterno.  “It was a departmental issue,” McCann said yesterday in a
phone interview. “If they were to stop all sports for a year or
two, they would likely say that this wasn’t just a football team
situation, it was an institutional problem.”  If the NCAA levies the death penalty against Penn State,
the financial losses would likely be debilitating, leaving non-
revenue teams without funding and saddling the program with debt
for years. In the fiscal year ending in 2010, the football
program generated $63.3 million of the department’s $106.6
million operating revenue and turned an operating profit of
$49.2 million, according to the school’s revenue and expenses
report for that year.  Southern Methodist University ’s football program received
the  death penalty  in 1987 when it was revealed that 13 players
had received a total of $61,000 from a slush fund provided by a
booster. The NCAA canceled SMU’s 1987 season and allowed it to
play just seven games -- all on the road -- in 1988.  “This is completely different than an impermissible
benefits scandal like (what) happened at SMU, or anything else
we’ve dealt with,” Emmert said. “There have been people that
said this wasn’t a football scandal. It was that, but much more.
And we’ll have to figure out exactly what the right penalties
are.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  