-- Pentagon and Contractors Need to Plan for Budget Warfare
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s ,
-- 2012-07-18T22:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/pentagon-isn-t-ready-for-budget-war.html
The House’s near-unanimous passage
yesterday of a bill requiring the White House to explain how it
will make the severe budget cuts mandated by last summer’s debt-
ceiling pact was a pleasant exhibition of bipartisan common
sense.  The White House, which has been scandalously silent on the
issue, needs to tell the public and lawmakers what it has in
mind should so-called sequestration take place after this year.
In no realm is clarity more urgent than military spending.  First, let’s be clear: The $109 billion in mandatory
spending cuts due to take place in 2013, a requirement agreed to
in last year’s debt-ceiling deal, would be a disaster. Combined
with the end of the George W. Bush-era tax cuts and expiration
of a payroll-tax reduction, the cuts would knock 3 percent off
U.S. economic growth next year, according to a  Bloomberg News
survey  of economists. And the blame for reaching this “fiscal
cliff” belongs squarely to Congress, which failed to reach a
compromise after last summer’s deal on the debt ceiling.  As the presidential campaign has intensified and
congressional Republicans and Democrats play chicken over
whether the Bush cuts should be furthered for all taxpayers or
just those earning less than a certain amount, discussion of
legislation to put off sequestration has stagnated. With the
cliff still looming, the civilian and military agencies that
would be devastated by sequestration, to the tune of $1.2
trillion over a decade, need to make contingency plans.  No Planning  Consider the Pentagon’s bind. According to an analysis by
 Bloomberg Government , military spending on operations,
procurement, research and construction must be trimmed by 12
percent, or $54.7 billion, on Jan. 2, 2013. Over 10 years, the
department must cut as much as 15 percent of non-exempt budget
items (personnel costs such as payroll will apparently be spared
the knife). Oddly, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta has repeatedly
said he is “not planning” for sequestration; Jeffrey Zients, the
acting director of the Office of Management and Budget, says he
isn’t coordinating sequestration planning with other agencies.
This might be a bluff, but if they are assuming sequestration
will be put off they are betting the nation’s security on the
functionality of a Congress that has proved dysfunctional time
and again.  It was proper for the House, which is also debating the
2013 military budget this week, to demand action from the
administration. (The Senate has a similar language included in
its farm bill.) The Defense Department, however, needs more
information to do so properly. The Budget Control Act that
established sequestration is vague on whether trims must be
carried out evenly across the board or whether the military has
discretion to make deep cuts in some areas and spare others. It
would be preferable for OMB to interpret the law in a way that
gives the Pentagon maximum flexibility, and for Zients to make
this clear when he appears before the House Armed Services
Committee, scheduled for Aug. 1.  Why does the military need latitude in making cuts? Each
additional program that needs modification makes it that much
more difficult for managers and contractors involved with a
giant entity such as the Defense Department to assess effects
and prioritize spending. Eliminating or putting off fewer,
larger targets can achieve budget savings more cleanly. And
plenty of big-money projects deserve reconsideration -- even if
sequestration is put off.  Lockheed Martin Corp.’s (LMT)  F-35 fighter
plane and the Ford-class Supercarrier, built by Huntington
Ingalls Industries Inc., come to mind.  Shared Sacrifice  There will be objections to this big-ticket approach. The
military, traditionally a culture of shared sacrifice, will be
hesitant to pick winners and losers. And members of Congress
whose districts stand to lose jobs will surely balk. But in an
age of austerity, national defense needs to become leaner and
smarter. And there is plenty of fat in the military budget that
needs judicious trimming.  It’s not only the Pentagon that has to plan ahead --
military contractors face huge obstacles. As most are required
by law to give 60 days’ notice of impending layoffs, some are
warning they might send out letters to employees days before the
November election. (That may be an idle threat, but let’s hope
it spurs Congress to reach a deal putting off sequestration.) In
any case, suppliers might need to work out contingency contracts
with the Pentagon, and smaller companies will need to forge
survival plans in case the federal money spigot gets shut off.  About the only thing one can find wide bipartisan agreement
on in  Washington  these days is that sequestration is a disaster
that must be avoided. Yet nobody can agree on how to do it.
Given the uncertainties of a presidential-election year, OMB,
Congress and the Pentagon -- not to mention the civilian
agencies also facing huge mandated cuts -- need to let the
public know quickly whether they have backup plans in place.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a pricey new weapon for
 fighting AIDS  and on the Pentagon’s upcoming  budget war ;
 Caroline Baum  on  term limits  for Congress;  Michael Kinsley  on
why  Mitt Romney’s faith  is his best asset;  Ezra Klein  on the
 Romney who could’ve been ; Amir Sufi on  eminent domain as an
answer  to housing debt;  Nell Minow  on the  zombies  hanging around
corporate boardrooms.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 