-- Pentagon Resumes Arms Aid to Yemen for Counter-Terrorism
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-07-18T19:36:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/pentagon-resumes-arms-aid-to-yemen-for-counter-terrorism.html
The Pentagon is resuming the supply
of counter-terrorism weapons, ammunition, radios, aircraft and
commando raiding craft to Yemen after a year’s interruption
because of the nation’s instability.  The renewed aid totals about $112 million, according to
Pentagon data. The equipment is being purchased under so-called
Section 1206 funding, which lets the Pentagon spend on counter-
terrorism training and equipment for allies.  The equipment “will help build the capacity of Yemen’s
military forces to conduct counter-terrorism operations” and
enhance their survivability and “tactical proficiency,”
Defense Secretary Leon Panetta wrote congressional defense
committees July 5 in a letter obtained today by Bloomberg News.  “Yemen’s special forces’ and other forces’ inability to
project” beyond the capital of Sana’a “allows al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula to destabilize the region and both indirectly
and directly harm U.S. interests,” Panetta said.  Yemen, bordering  Saudi Arabia , Oman and the mouth of the
 Red Sea  at the southern tip of the Arabian Peninsula, is
struggling to recover from protests that weakened the central
government’s authority and forced Ali Abdullah Saleh, who ruled
the country for more than three decades, to cede power last
year. Abdurabuh Mansur Hadi was elected president in February.  Yemen has received the most Section 1206 funds, getting
$252.6 million through the middle of fiscal 2010, according to
the nonpartisan  Congressional Research Service . Pakistan was
second.  Al-Qaeda Affiliate  Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula operates in Yemen and is
“the most active and dangerous affiliate” of the al-Qaeda
terrorist network, the Obama administration said in a June 15
report to Congress.  The U.S. military has been “working closely with the
Yemeni government to operationally dismantle and ultimately
eliminate the terrorist threat posed” by al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula, according to the report. The Central
Intelligence Agency also has been launching drone strikes on
terrorist targets in Yemen.  John Brennan , the White House adviser on counter-terrorism,
visited Yemen in May to underscore U.S. support for operations
against al-Qaeda and other insurgents.  Of the $112 million in renewed aid, $75 million is for
training, night- vision goggles, small Raven drones made by
 Aerovironment Inc. (AVAV) , radios and vehicles. An additional $23.4
million is for “fixed-wing aircraft,” while $14 million is for
a “special operations force enhancement program.”  Aircraft, Pistols  The planned aid includes: two additional CASA CN-235 short-
takeoff and landing turbo-prop aircraft for special operations;
50 Barrett .50-caliber sniper rifles used by U.S. commandos; 200
M-4 carbines and AN/PEQ-15 advanced target laser aiming devices;
200 9mm Glock pistols and more than 1 million rounds of 9mm,
7.62 mm, 5.56mm and .50 caliber ammunition. The money also will
buy 50  Harris Corp. (HRS)  vehicle radios and 50 GPS devices.  For naval operations, the Pentagon wants to provide Yemen
with five Zodiac rubber raiding craft and two Rigid Hull
Inflatable boats used by U.S. Navy SEALs.  All the items will be on contract by September 30 with
deliveries to “commence as soon as possible”  to be completed
within 18 months, the Pentagon letter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  