-- Peregrine Trustee Says 11 Clients Have Returnable Assets
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-07-18T16:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/peregrine-trustee-says-11-clients-have-returnable-assets.html
The trustee liquidating Peregrine
Financial Group Inc. said only about 11 of 24,000 futures
customers have “specifically identifiable property” eligible
to be returned to them.  Peregrine founder Russell R. Wasendorf Sr., 64, admitted
stealing at least $100 million from the Cedar Falls, Iowa-based
firm, according to an FBI affidavit accompanying a criminal
complaint unsealed upon his July 13 arrest. The  National Futures
Association  reported July 9 that Peregrine appeared to be
missing at least $200 million in client funds. Wasendorf
attempted suicide outside the firm’s headquarters that day.  The trustee, Ira Bodenstein, said the assets he is seeking
to return are defined as securities, warehouse receipts, cash
and other assets that are registered in customers’ names and
aren’t transferable. The 11 eligible customers mostly hold
warehouse receipts for precious metals, he said in a court
filing in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in  Chicago .  According to U.S. rules for liquidating a futures
brokerage, other customer property must be distributed pro rata
based on net equity claims. Commodity contracts that can’t be
traced to a particular customer will be liquidated, along with
securities and other assets held by the firm’s estate that don’t
fit the definition of specifically identifiable property.  Metals Receipts  As a result, customers of the futures brokerage who have a
right to return of property won’t necessarily get 100 percent of
their assets, Bodenstein said.  Bodenstein didn’t immediately return a call seeking comment
on the outlook for Peregrine’s remaining customers. An e-mail
said he was out of the office.  Wasendorf established the firm as Wasendorf & Son Inc. in
1980, renamed it Peregrine 10 years later and opened a Chicago
office, according to its  website . The firm filed to liquidate in
Chapter 7 bankruptcy on July 10.  Customers with returnable metals warehouse receipts may
have to post a deposit to receive the receipts, he said. Notices
letting eligible customers know they must request return of
property will be sent in writing to those customers, he said.  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
 Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in  New York  at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  