-- Peregrine CEO Wasendorf’s Bail Hearing Moved to July 27
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-07-18T19:31:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/peregrine-ceo-wasendorf-s-bail-hearing-postponed-to-july-27.html
Peregrine Financial Group Inc.
founder Russell Wasendorf Sr.’s bail hearing was postponed to
July 27 after he asked for more preparation time.  Wasendorf, who is accused of lying to federal regulators
about how much client money the commodities broker had on
deposit, noted he was assigned an attorney only yesterday,
according to an order today by U.S. Magistrate Judge Jon Stuart Scoles in  Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa .  Wasendorf, 64, admitted stealing at least $100 million from
the  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based firm, according to an FBI affidavit
accompanying a criminal complaint unsealed on his July 13
arrest. He was to appear before Scoles for consideration of his
release on bail and for a preliminary hearing. He has been in
custody since his arrest.  Frozen Assets  A federal judge in  Chicago  last week froze assets belonging
to Peregrine and Wasendorf, who was its chief executive officer,
at the request of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The CFTC has sued accusing him and his firm of misappropriating
client finds.  Scoles yesterday appointed Jane Kelly, federal public
defender, as counsel for the CEO. Kelly made the postponement
request today.  Kelly did not return a call seeking comment on the delay.
Prosecutors didn’t object, according to her court filing. Wade
Kisner, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Cedar
Rapids, didn’t return a call for comment on the ruling.  Missing $200 Million  The  National Futures Association  on July 9 reported that
Peregrine appeared to be missing at least $200 million in client
funds. Wasendorf attempted suicide outside the company’s
headquarters that day.  Wasendorf established Wasendorf & Son Inc. in 1980, renamed
it Peregrine 10 years later and opened a Chicago office,
according to  the company website . It filed for Chapter 7
bankruptcy protection in Chicago on July 10.  Before trying to asphyxiate himself on the day of the NFA
report, Wasendorf prepared a statement saying he had been
embezzling from the company for nearly two decades, according to
the affidavit of a  Federal Bureau  of Investigation agent,
William Langdon, filed with the criminal complaint.  ‘Intense Guilt’  “I have committed fraud,” Wasendorf wrote, according to
Langdon. “For this I feel constant and intense guilt,”  The NFA and CFTC say at least $200 million in client funds
are missing from the firm’s accounts at  U.S. Bank .  A client, Michael LaSalvia of Naperville,  Illinois , on July
13 sued Wasendorf; his son and chief operating officer, Russell
Wasendorf Jr.; and two other Peregrine executives, accusing them
of commingling firm and client funds in violation of the U.S.
Commodity Exchange Act.  Beau Wolinsky of Danville,  Kentucky , another client, sued
yesterday accusing those defendants and firm Vice Chairman Neil Aslin of breaching separate CEA provisions prohibiting
fraudulent dealings.  Class-Action Suits  Wolinsky and LaSalvia asked for class-action, or group,
status on behalf of all similarly situated clients from February
2010 to July 2012. They asked for unspecified money damages.  The trustee liquidating Peregrine, who is seeking to return
“specifically identifiable property” to customers, said only
about 11 of 24,000 futures clients have such property eligible
to be returned, according to a filing in  bankruptcy court .  The trustee, Ira Bodenstein, said the assets he is trying
to return are defined as securities, warehouse receipts, cash
and other assets that are registered in the name of that
customer and are not transferable. The 11 eligible customers are
mostly holding warehouse receipts for precious metals, he said.  Russell Wasendorf Jr. and Neil Aslin couldn’t be located to
ask for comment.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-00131, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Illinois (Chicago).  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  