-- Peregrine’s Wasendorf, Charged With Lying, Seeks Bail
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-07-18T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/peregrine-s-wasendorf-charged-with-lying-seeks-bail.html
Russell R. Wasendorf Sr., the
Peregrine Financial Group Inc. founder charged with lying to
regulators about how much client money his commodities brokerage
had on deposit, is set to ask a judge to release him on bail.  Wasendorf, 64, admitted stealing at least $100 million from
the  Cedar Falls , Iowa-based firm, according to an FBI affidavit
accompanying a criminal complaint unsealed upon his July 13
arrest. He’s been in U.S. custody since then and is scheduled to
appear today before a federal magistrate judge in  Cedar Rapids ,
according to the court’s electronic docket.  The  National Futures Association  reported July 9 that
Peregrine appeared to be missing at least $200 million in client
funds. Wasendorf attempted suicide outside the firm’s
headquarters that day.  “Having admitted to stealing $100 million and $200 million
missing, his chances are one in 100 million of getting
released” Steven A. Miller, a former federal prosecutor who is
now a white-collar criminal defense attorney, said in a phone
interview.  Bail in a large financial fraud case wouldn’t be
unprecedented. Bernard L. Madoff, who confessed to deceiving
investors for decades and stole an estimated $17 billion, was
freed on $10 million bail and confined to his  Manhattan 
apartment where he was monitored by guards and under electronic
surveillance before pleading guilty and being sentenced to 150
years in prison.  Probable Argument  New York  attorney Mark Dreier was also freed on $10 million
bail and confined to his home under 24-hour guard before he was
sentenced to 20 years in prison for a $400 million fraud.  With so much client cash unaccounted for, prosecutors will
probably argue Wasendorf has the financial resources to flee if
not jailed before trial, Miller and two other lawyers not
involved in the case said in separate interviews.  The founder’s assets were ordered frozen by a federal judge
in Chicago who is overseeing a civil enforcement action filed
against Wasendorf and his firm by the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission.  Wasendorf is being represented by the Cedar Rapids Federal
Public Defender’s office. Attorney Jane Kelly said the office
doesn’t discuss its cases with the press.  Assistant U.S. Attorney Peter Deegan, who is prosecuting
the case, declined to comment on whether bail terms had been
discussed.  Embezzlement  Wasendorf established the firm as Wasendorf & Son Inc. in
1980, renamed it Peregrine 10 years later and opened a Chicago
office, according to  its website . It filed for Chapter 7
bankruptcy protection in that city on July 10.  Before attempting suicide by asphyxiation, the Peregrine
chairman and chief executive officer prepared a statement saying
he had been embezzling from the firm for almost two decades,
according to the affidavit of  Federal Bureau  of Investigation
Special Agent William Langdon.  “I have committed fraud. For this I feel constant and
intense guilt,” Wasendorf said, according to Langdon.  The NFA and CFTC each say at least $200 million in client
funds are missing from the firm’s accounts at  U.S. Bank .  A receiver appointed by U.S. District Judge Rebecca Pallmeyer in the CFTC action said his preliminary investigation
revealed Wasendorf or entities he controlled owned an Italian
restaurant, two Chicago condominiums, an online bookseller,
aircraft, a construction company and property in  Romania .  ‘Fortune Somewhere’  “It is possible assets owned by the Wasendorf entities may
have been procured with funds embezzled from PFG,” receiver
Michael Eidelman and his attorney, Randall Lending, told
Pallmeyer.  “The court is likely to conclude he’s sitting on a fortune
somewhere,” said Miller, a partner in the  Chicago  office of
Pittsburg-based Reed Smith LLP.  Because criminal defendants are by law innocent until
proven guilty, courts operate under a presumption they’re
entitled to bail, said Jeffrey Cramer, another former federal
prosecutor.  Still, the amount of missing money in the Wasendorf case
and his suicide attempt render his chances of regaining freedom
“slim,” Cramer said.  “It’s a hard argument to make he is not a danger to
himself and not a flight risk,” said Cramer, now a managing
director in the Chicago office of Kroll Advisory Solutions, an
international investigative firm.  Bail Conditions  Courts will typically try to find some set of conditions --
such as some combination of home confinement, electronic
monitoring and a high bond -- to ensure a defendant’s return to
court, said Cramer.  “You don’t have that here,” he said. Confinement and
monitoring can’t ensure Wasendorf won’t attempt suicide again.
Bail would need to be set high enough to deter his
disappearance.  “If he’s sitting on $100 million, does he care about
$1 million?” Cramer asked.  Miller, too, said the suicide attempt is a complicating
factor.  “When you sign a release order, you’re agreeing to appear
in court and face the charges,” Miller said. “When you attempt
to take your life you’re going to abort the legal process in its
tracks.”  Evidence Strong  Attorney Kurt Stitcher, who served as a federal prosecutor
in Miami, worked as a Central Intelligence Agency analyst and is
now in private practice with Fagre Baker Daniels LLP in Chicago,
said he sees a way out for Wasendorf.  “The weight of the evidence, of course, is very strong but
for what crime(s)?” he said in an e-mail.  “The government can argue about the fraud, but it hasn’t
charged it yet, so the court could push back on the actual crime
charged,” which carries only a five-year maximum sentence,
Stitcher said.  Madoff and Dreier had extreme conditions imposed on their
release, he said. “That happened in Manhattan. Is  Iowa  too
down-to-earth to treat Wasendorf like that? That’s the
$200 million question.”  The criminal case is U.S. v. Wasendorf, 12-mj-00131, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Iowa (Cedar Rapids).  The regulatory case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission v. Peregrine Financial Group Inc., 12-cv-05383, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  The bankruptcy case is In re Peregrine Financial Group
Inc., 12-27488,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Northern District of
Illinois (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  