-- Permira Said to Delay Initial Close for Europe Buyout Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2012-07-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/permira-said-to-delay-initial-close-for-europe-buyout-fund.html
Permira Advisers LLP, the private-
equity firm that controls  Hugo Boss , has postponed a planned
initial close for its latest buyout fund by several months,
according to two people familiar with the situation.  The firm expects a first close in September, pushed back
from June, for Permira V, which is seeking 6.5 billion euros
($7.99 billion), these people said. London-based Permira sent
marketing materials to investors in September.  Noemie de Andia, a spokeswoman for Permira, declined to 
comment.  Permira is gathering money in a competitive fundraising
market, prompting it to join other firms in offering discounted
management fees to investors who participate in a first close.
The prior fund, Permira Europe IV, was producing a 0.5 net
internal rate of return and a one times multiple as of Dec. 31,
according to the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System .
Permira’s biggest investor,  SVG Capital Plc (SVI) , cut its commitment
to the firm by more than half after the September 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  A number of large buyout firms have waited with their first
close until they had gathered significant commitments.  Apax
Partners  held a first close for its latest buyout fund with 4.3
billion euros after 10 months of fundraising, a person familiar
with the matter said in March. Cinven Ltd. collected more than 3
billion euros for its latest fund six months after it came to
market.  As it seeks to win new investors, Permira can point to the
pending exit of Italian luxury brand Valentino Fashion Group
SpA. The firm this month agreed to sell Valentino to Mayhoola
for Investments SPC, a company backed by unidentified Qatari
investors. Another planned exit, of Iglo Foods Group Ltd., was
called off after the firm received bids that it deemed too low.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  