-- Philadelphia Voting Problems Reported in Primary Election
-- B y   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-07-19T04:22:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/philadelphia-voting-problems-reported-in-primary-election.html
Records from Philadelphia’s April
primary election show evidence of voting irregularities
involving as many as 1,000 ballots, a city commissioner said,
citing his own examination of voting data.  Issues raised by Al Schmidt, a Republican on the three-
member board that oversees city elections, ranged from
allegations of voting by seven noncitizens to one person casting
two ballots. He said a closer study is needed to determine the
exact number and nature of the irregularities.  “Some are clearly mistakes,” Schmidt told reporters
yesterday at a briefing in his Philadelphia office. “Some are
fraud.” He said he plans to work with Philadelphia District
Attorney Seth Williams about the irregularities he turned up.  A new voter-identification law may disqualify almost 25
percent of adult residents in Pennsylvania’s biggest city from
casting ballots in November, according to official estimates.
Considered a crucial swing state in this year’s presidential
contest, it is among several with Republican-dominated
governments that have recently passed voter-identification laws.  A similar measure in  Texas  is the focus of a legal dispute
and prompted U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder to call it a
“poll tax,” according to the Washington Post. Democrats have
objected to identification laws as attempts to prevent poor,
immigrant and minority voters from casting ballots.  “Nowhere in the report is there conclusive evidence that
the new voter photo ID law will help mitigate the incidences
described,” Commissioner Stephanie Singer, a Democrat on the
election panel, said in a statement regarding Schmidt’s study.  ID Required  The Pennsylvania law requires a state driver’s license or
an acceptable alternative, such as a military ID, in order to
cast a ballot. About 9 percent of adult residents may be denied
a chance to vote in November, the secretary of the commonwealth
said this month, including almost 187,000 in Philadelphia.  President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, won 83 percent of the
city’s vote in 2008. He carried the state by 620,478 votes,
fewer than the number who may be barred from the polls Nov. 6.  Requirements needed to obtain official photo identification
can prevent participation by lower-income Americans,
particularly those who don’t have access to transportation and
who live more than 10 miles (16 kilometers) from an ID-issuing
office, according to a report yesterday from   New York 
University’s Brennan Center for Justice.  “Voter ID laws will make it harder for hundreds of
thousands of poor Americans to vote,” according to the report.
“They place a serious burden on a core constitutional right
that should be universally available to every American.”  Access Issues  In  Pennsylvania , 14 percent of voting-age residents live
more than 10 miles from the nearest state office that issues
identification and don’t have access to a vehicle, according to
the Brennan report. The state issues the IDs free of charge.  Schmidt said the voter ID law will address some of the
irregularities he says he uncovered, which included more votes
cast than those who participated in a district, one person
voting in place of another, 23 people who cast ballots and
weren’t registered, and six who didn’t sign poll books as
required.  To determine whether there were irregularities, Schmidt
said he examined voting-machine totals and compared them with a
state voter-participation database. In some districts, he looked
at books used to keep track of voters and others that list which
ones cast ballots.  Evidence that noncitizens cast ballots stemmed from
telephone calls from U.S. immigration officials who inquired
about whether certain individuals had registered to vote,
Schmidt said. He didn’t name the officials. He said he didn’t
have more detailed evidence and called for a comprehensive
review of the voting after each city election.  No one in District Attorney Williams’s office responded
immediately to a telephone call after normal business hours
seeking comment on Schmidt’s report.  “You have one group of people who are saying there is no
voter fraud in Philadelphia, and another group of people who are
saying there are hundreds of thousands of cases,” Schmidt said.
“The truth is somewhere in between.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  