-- PNC Shares Fall on Profit Miss, Mortgage-Putback Costs
-- B y   L a u r a   J .   K e l l e r
-- 2012-07-18T20:16:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/pnc-shares-fall-on-profit-miss-mortgage-putback-costs.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
the seventh-largest  U.S. bank  by deposits, declined in New York
trading after second-quarter profit missed analysts’ estimates
and mortgage-repurchase demands intensified.  Shares of the bank dropped 0.9 percent to $61.01 in New
York trading at 4 p.m., after Pittsburgh-based PNC said net
income fell 40 percent. Per-share earnings excluding one-time
items other than the mortgage costs were $1.20, two cents less
than the average estimate of 22 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  PNC, led by Chief Executive Officer Jim Rohr, said earnings
were reduced by a $438 million pretax provision related to
demands by  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac  that the bank buy back
faulty mortgages sold during the housing boom. The company said
the two government-sponsored enterprises had stepped up demands
for so-called putbacks, especially in the past three months.  “We believe we are appropriately reserved,” Chief
Financial Officer Richard Johnson said on a conference call with
analysts. “However, we also believe it is reasonably possible
that we could see an additional $350 million, over time, should
investor behavior and our assumptions change.”  The new provision brings expected losses on the loan
portfolio to $1.7 billion, Johnson said.  The higher claims, which apply mostly to loans sold in 2006
through 2008, were tied to National City Corp., which PNC
acquired in 2009.  Left Field  “It’s been an industry issue that just kind of pops out of
left field,”Scott Siefers, an analyst at Sandler O’Niell &
Partners LP in  New York , said in an interview. “It’s not a
problem, and then it is a problem. And it’s a problem that costs
hundreds of millions of dollars in a lot of cases.”  PNC said last month it would boost reserves by $350 million
to cover what the GSEs demanded at that time. Talks with the two
companies resulted in the higher amount announced today, the
bank said.  Net income dropped to $546 million, or 98 cents a share,
from $912 million, or $1.67, a year earlier, the bank said today
in a statement.  “While we experienced a few items that reduced our
earnings in the short term, we were very pleased with our
success in continuing to grow customer relationships and loans
resulting in strong revenue,” Rohr, 63, said in the statement.  Revenue increased 1 percent to $3.62 billion, including a
17 percent climb in net interest income to $2.53 billion.  Revenue Forecast  The company maintained its previous forecast that revenue
percentage gains this year will be in the “high single
digits,” assuming no significant future putback demands,
according to a presentation on the bank’s website.  PNC’s residential-mortgage business posted a loss of $213
million on provisions for the repurchase demands.  In addition to the mortgage provision, the company also had
a non-cash charge of $85 million, or 16 cents a share, from the
redemption of trust-preferred securities.  Integration costs were 6 cents a share, the company said.  PNC paid about $3.47 billion for Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC
Bank USA and its related credit-card assets, a transaction that
was completed in March. The purchase is expected to add 40 cents
to earnings per share for the full year, excluding integration
costs, Johnson said in April.  Provisions for credit losses rose to $256 million from $185
million in the first quarter and compared with $280 million a
year earlier.  Total loans jumped 20 percent to $180.4 billion, led by
commercial lending.  The net interest margin, the difference between what PNC
pays on deposits and makes on loans, widened to 4.08 percent
from 3.90 percent in the first quarter and 3.93 percent a year
earlier. Johnson said on the call that the margin will probably
hold steady for the rest of the year and come under pressure in
future quarters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura J. Keller in New York at 
 lkeller12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  