-- Port Authority Accelerates Project to Raise Bayonne Bridge
-- B y   M a r t i n   Z .   B r a u n
-- 2012-07-18T20:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/port-authority-accelerates-bayonne-bridge-raising-by-six-months.html
The  Port Authority  of  New York  and
New Jersey will finish a key part of a $1 billion project to
raise the Bayonne Bridge by the fourth quarter of 2015, six
months earlier than planned, officials said.  The new timetable will ensure that the project will be
completed before a widened Panama Canal opens in 2016, allowing
bigger  container ships  to reach New York City-area ports from
the  Pacific Ocean . The project will create an estimated 6,300
construction jobs, the agency said. Work will start in mid-2013.  “We said we’d be ready for the opening of the Panama Canal
and we will be ready,” Port Authority Chairman David Samson
said today on a conference call with reporters. “Competition is
fierce among all the ports on the East Coast.”  The 80-year-old  Bayonne Bridge , which connects the  New
Jersey  city with New York’s  Staten Island , is the fourth-largest
steel arch bridge in the world. The Port Authority is raising
the span’s roadway to 215 feet (66 meters) from 151 feet above
the Kill Van Kull waterway to accommodate larger, more efficient
vessels.  The agency, which also operates the region’s three major
airports, said its seven shipping terminals handled 3.2 million
containers in 2011. The ports support about 280,000 jobs and $11
billion in personal income, Samson said. The terminals handled
30 percent of all goods shipped to the East Coast, more than its
three closest competitors combined -- Savannah,  Georgia ;
Norfolk, Virginia; and Baltimore, the Port Authority said.  Miami, South Carolina  Other ports on the Eastern Seaboard are investing in
infrastructure to boost competitiveness, the Port Authority
said. The Port of Miami is building a $450 million tunnel
connecting it to interstate highways.  South Carolina  is spending
$300 million to deepen the Port of Charleston.  The Panama Canal Authority is expected to complete the
widening of the waterway in April 2015. Eight months of testing
will follow construction, Samson said.  Port Authority officials attributed the expedited timeline
in part to accelerated design and compressed permitting
processes. The agency has prequalified five construction joint
ventures to bid on the work. Agency officials and the four U.S.
senators representing New York and New Jersey have asked for
expedited federal reviews.  “There is no project more important to the Port Authority
than this,” Samson said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Martin Z. Braun in New York at 
 mbraun6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  