-- Primark Seeks Europe Conquest With Recession-Chic Styles: Retail
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-07-18T23:00:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/primark-seeks-europe-conquest-with-recession-chic-styles-retail.html
Primark’s newest store in Berlin has
been open for less than an hour and already a mannequin’s right
hand dangles by a cord, knocked loose in a shopper’s vain
struggle to remove its 7-euro ($8.58) denim shorts.  The battered, half-naked figure illustrates a clamor for
budget fashion that has helped the retailer’s recession-chic
apparel gain more than a fifth of the 11.4 billion-pound ($17.8
billion) U.K. discount clothing market in three decades. Buoyed
by that success, Primark is taking on  Europe  by exploiting a gap
between deep discounters and pricier, fashion-led chains, such
as Spain’s  Inditex SA (ITX)  and  Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  of  Sweden .  “It’s difficult to find any European retailer that has the
same clout and impact as Primark,” said Maureen Hinton, U.K.
retail practice leader at  Verdict Research  in London. “You can
say they’re in a class of their own.”  Founded in Dublin as Penneys in 1969, Primark generates
more than 3 billion pounds in annual sales from 238 stores,
employing about 40,000 people in seven countries. The business
is crucial to parent  Associated British Foods Plc, (ABF)  accounting
for almost 40 percent of profit at the London-based maker of
Twinings tea. AB Foods  shares  have risen 19 percent in the past
year, while the U.K.  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  has fallen 1.2 percent.  The 59,100 square-foot (5,491 square-meter) Berlin store,
which tallied the highest first-day sales in company history and
drew busloads of shoppers from as far away as Poland when it
opened on July 11, is Primark’s eighth in Germany, a nation of
81 million that Investec Securities analyst Martin Deboo
estimates could house as many as 100 locations.  Venturing Overseas  “Primark is really an addition to the German market, as
there are few economy clothing retailers which offer fashionable
clothing,” Isabel Cavill, an analyst at  Planet Retail , said in
an interview, referring to competitors such as department store
Karstadt, the Tengelmann Group’s Kik, and Takko, owned by
London-based private-equity firm Apax Partners LLP.  Primark, based in Reading,  England  and the Irish capital
Dublin, first ventured away from home in 2006 with the opening
of a store in  Madrid . It now has 27 Spanish outlets and is also
present in  Portugal , the Netherlands, Germany and  Belgium , with
two Austrian stores opening later this year.  In 10 years, almost half of the retailer’s store space will
be in continental Europe, up from 21 percent today, according to
 Graham Jones , an analyst at Panmure Gordon. Morgan Stanley
analyst Toby McCullagh estimates that Primark will almost triple
its presence in the region by 2017, helped by stores twice the
size of its old ones in cities such as Madrid, Berlin and Vienna
and a new warehouse opening next month in northwest Germany.  Competitive Edge  Primark’s European expansion may weigh on sales at C&A, the
discount chain owned by Switzerland’s Cofra Holding AG, which
has 450 stores in Germany, and H&M, the biggest specialty
apparel retailer in the country, according to Euromonitor.  In the U.K., shoppers are deserting more traditional
clothing retailers such as  Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  in favor of
Primark. Last week, AB Foods reported a 2 percent third-quarter
gain in sales at Primark stores open at least a year, a key
retail metric that’s been positive every year since at least
2000. Marks & Spencer said general merchandise sales, which are
mostly apparel, fell 6.8 percent in the 13 weeks ended June 30.  Primark may plow future profit into an acquisition to
expand in Germany or beyond, according to Jones, the Panmure
analyst. France and Poland are the leading candidates for the
chain’s next entry, he said, and beyond Europe, Primark could
one day land in  Australia  or  South Africa .  Dubai Counterfeit  Then there’s Dubai, where counterfeiters opened a fake
Primark store in the Bur Dubai district this year. AB Foods
spokesman Chris Barrie said the store will close soon or remove
the Primark brand. Its presence illustrates Primark’s widening
global appeal, according to Verdict’s Hinton.  To draw shoppers, Primark’s Chief Executive Officer Paul Marchant relies on a formula of low prices and on-trend fashion.
The 44-year-old executive, who took the reins three years ago
from founder Arthur Ryan, has also spruced up Primark’s once-
dreary stores with eye-catching merchandise displays on the
walls and on video screens spread throughout the store.  Menswear, which once consisted largely of black socks and
10-packs of underwear, now includes a range of 10 suits for 40
pounds each in some larger stores and accounts for about 20
percent of sales, Marchant said in an interview in Berlin.  “Our shoppers’ boyfriends used to shop for clothes
elsewhere,” the CEO said. “Now they shop here.”  Chiffon Dresses  Marchant, a native of Kent, England, has also introduced
higher-quality women’s lines like “Limited Edition,” where
blouses and skirts sell for as much as 25 percent more than
Primark’s usual range, and have appeared on pages of British
fashion magazines.  “He’s got a great eye for fashion,” Phil Wrigley,
Marchant’s former boss at British retailer New Look Group Ltd.
and now chairman of  Majestic Wine Plc, (MJW)  said in an interview.  Primark’s low prices, such as 13-pound belted chiffon
dresses, come in part from avoiding big marketing campaigns,
keeping labor costs low, and forgoing a London headquarters.  Those prices have also drawn criticism. A 2008 British
Broadcasting Corp. television program accused Primark suppliers
of using child labor in  India . A later investigation by  BBC 
Trustees found that video footage featured on the broadcast was
doctored, prompting the BBC to apologize in 2011.  What has also kept prices in check was a decision by AB
Foods to absorb cotton prices that surged at the end of 2010
rather than raise the prices of its frocks. Primark’s operating
profit  margin  narrowed from 12.5 percent of sales in 2010 to 9.7
percent in the second half of fiscal 2011, and should widen to
10.6 percent in the second half of 2012 now that cotton has
declined, Irish brokerage Davy estimated in a July 10 note.  ‘Good Strategy’  “It was a very good strategy because it stopped their
customers from going elsewhere,” Hinton said.  Primark’s profit has risen sixfold since 2000, making the
chain a growth vehicle that AB Foods will continue to invest in
rather than look to spin off, according toDeboo.  “Nothing in ABF’s track record says they are sellers of
growth businesses,” Deboo said in an interview.  Back at the Berlin store, Sophie, a 22-year-old university
student, is shoving a 19-euro denim jacket in her shopping bag.  “It’s cheap and it’s trendy,” she said, before heading
off into a scrum of mostly female shoppers to find shoes.
“There’s nothing like this.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in  London  at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  