-- Private Space Exploration a Long and Thriving Tradition
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u r g a n
-- 2012-07-18T21:16:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/private-space-exploration-a-long-and-thriving-tradition.html
With the U.S. space-shuttle
program over, companies and governments are rushing to
privatize travel into the cosmos. This spring, Space
Exploration Technologies Corp., known as SpaceX, launched a
capsule that docked with the International Space Station --
the first commercial space vehicle to do so.  In the desert of  New Mexico , Virgin Galactic is
preparing for the first suborbital space flights for paying
customers, with actor  Ashton Kutcher  one of the latest to
sign up for the privilege. In Huntsville,  Alabama ,
Stratolaunch Systems Inc. is busy dismantling Boeing 747s,
hoping to use their engines and other systems to build the
world’s largest plane, which will help propel a new
spacecraft into flight.  All three projects have wealthy entrepreneurs backing
them: PayPal Inc. co-founder Elon Musk is the head of
SpaceX, U.K. billionaire  Richard Branson  is the founder and
chairman of Virgin Group Ltd., and Paul G. Allen, the co-
founder of Microsoft Corp., started Stratolaunch last year.  The three men might not know it, but they’re following
in a grand tradition of private wealth furthering advances
in rocketry and space exploration.  Baron’s Bounty  In the 19th and early 20th centuries, private citizens
raised money to promote Earth-based exploration of the
stars. Charles Tyson Yerkes, a robber baron who transformed
urban transportation, gave $300,000 to  University of
Chicago  to establish an observatory. James Lick,
 California ’s richest man, left much of his  considerable
fortune  to the  University of California  in 1876 to build an
observatory with the world’s most powerful telescope.
Philanthropists from  Andrew Carnegie  to  John D. Rockefeller 
helped fund ever more elaborate technology for scanning the
cosmos.  But when it came to actually putting a vehicle into
space, Daniel Guggenheim stood alone. He and his family
earned their millions in copper mining and other extractive
endeavors. Taking over from their father, Guggenheim and
his brothers expanded the family business, sometimes
seeking new technologies to reduce costs.  In 1924, Guggenheim and his wife, Florence, started a
foundation, hoping to use their fortune to promote “the
well-being of mankind throughout the world.”  Seeing the effects of engineering breakthroughs and
experimentation in business, Guggenheim also wanted to
support science -- in particular, heavier-than-air flight.
In 1925, he donated $250,000 to  New York  University to
start the first U.S. school of aeronautics. The next year,
he spent $2.5 million to start the Daniel Guggenheim Fund
for the Promotion of Aeronautics.  Guggenheim’s son Harry, a former Navy pilot, became
the fund’s first president. Harry had previously tried to
get President  Calvin Coolidge  interested in supporting his
father’s efforts. Coolidge, not uncharacteristically,
replied, “What’s the use of getting there quicker if you
haven’t got something better to say when you’ve arrived?”  But Harry had a breakthrough when he met  Charles Lindbergh . The fund had provided support to Lindbergh, and
the two men became good friends. Lindbergh knew of
pioneering work being done by the physicist Robert Goddard
at  Clark University  in Worcester,  Massachusetts .  Rocket Man  In 1926, Goddard had tested the world’s first liquid-
fueled rocket. Using his aunt’s farm as a launch site,
Goddard sent the rocket to a less-than-dizzying altitude of
41 feet. Goddard was sure he could do better and was soon
talking publicly about the potential for space travel with
rockets. By 1929, his work had caught Lindbergh’s
attention.  The next year, Harry introduced Lindbergh to his
father and the pilot stirred the elder Guggenheim’s
interest in funding Goddard’s work. In 1930, Daniel told
the  New York Times (NYT) , “I am convinced the experiments deserve
support.” He backed that up with $100,000, and over the
years more than double that amount followed.  With Guggenheim’s money (and some from other sources,
including the Smithsonian Institution), Goddard carried out
extensive research in Roswell, New Mexico -- about 200
miles, as the rocket flies, from where Virgin Galactic will
launch its spacecraft. Through the 1930s, in a series of
successful launches, he broke the sound barrier and
increased the rockets’ altitude to almost two miles.
Goddard also earned dozens of patents for his work.  There were failures too, of course, including rockets
that exploded on the launch pad. Still, with private money
backing him, Goddard helped start the Rocket Age. As
Goddard biographer David A. Clary noted, the Guggenheim
family’s contribution continued even after the scientist’s
death, as it helped his wife, Esther, transcribe his
research notes and diaries.  Daniel and Harry Guggenheim were philanthropists who
saw the potential value in speeding the mail, or people,
around the world on rockets. Yet years after Goddard died,
their support of rocketry also led to a financial payback.
In 1960, the U.S. government agreed to pay the Guggenheim
Foundation $1 million for infringing on patents Goddard had
won years before.  Today, Musk, Allen, Branson and others spending their
way into space see their ventures as potential moneymakers
-- why else do it? But at some level, they must share what
Guggenheim family biographer John H. Davis wrote Daniel
(and surely Harry) had as well: “faith in the wonders of
technology.”  (Michael Burgan is a freelance writer and the editor
of “The Biographer’s Craft,” the official publication of
Biographers International Organization. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Michael Burgan at
 mburgan@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  