-- Puma to Reorganize After Cutting Forecasts on Slowdown in Europe
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-07-18T10:22:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/puma-cuts-sales-and-profit-forecasts-after-first-half-slowdown.html
Puma SE (PUM) ,  Europe ’s second-largest
sporting-goods maker, cut its 2012 sales and profit forecasts
and said it will close some stores and may also eliminate jobs
after business slowed in the first half of the year.  The shares fell as much as 7.3 percent in Frankfurt
trading, the  steepest intraday drop  since July 29, 2010, after
Puma said revenue this year will rise at a “mid single-digit
rate,” revising the target from “high single-digit.” The
slowdown has been particularly noticeable in Europe, it said.  Puma, based in Herzogenaurach,  Germany , joins larger
competitor  Nike Inc. (NKE)  in reporting a slowdown in business in
Europe, where consumers are reeling from the sovereign-debt
crisis. Net income will fall “significantly” from last year’s
230.1 million euros ($283 million) because of a 100 million-euro
charge for speeding up and expanding the scope of a program to
reduce costs and boost efficiency, said the company, which had
previously forecast a mid single-digit percentage increase.  “Puma’s guidance for the year was resting on hope, and now
that hope has dematerialized,” said  Joerg Frey , an analyst at
M.M. Warburg in Hamburg. The extent to which the company’s
performance is trailing that of Adidas AG, Europe’s largest
sporting-goods maker, hadn’t been fully recognized, he said.  Puma was down 5 percent at 214.25 euros as of 11:50 a.m. in
Frankfurt. Adidas fell 0.3 percent to 58.04 euros, after
initially sliding as much 2.3 percent.  Adidas, which last updated investors at the time of May’s
first-quarter statement, has nothing new to say about its
forecasts, a company spokeswoman said. Nike, based in Beaverton,
 Oregon , said June 29 that profit declined for the first time
since 2009 in the fourth quarter of the financial year.  Earnings Drop  Puma’s first-half earnings before interest and tax fell by
11 percent from a year earlier, while net income was about 13
percent lower, the company reported today. Sales in the period
rose 8.8 percent in euro terms, it also said.  Profit was affected by weaker sales in France, Italy and
the U.K., which are some of its most profitable countries, Jean- Francois Palus, deputy chief executive officer of Puma-owner  PPR (PP) 
SA, said in a phone interview. The company still had “a very
good performance” in Germany, while sales increased by at least
10 percent in China during the second quarter, he said.  The streamlining of Puma’s European operations will include
redistributing  office space  and reviewing selling costs,
excluding those tied to advertising and promotion, Palus said.  “We are going to simplify Puma’s organization,” he said.
How the reorganization affects jobs is being defined and will be
presented to Puma’s workers council, Palus said.  The profit revision “doesn’t change anything” regarding
Puma’s revenue target of 4 billion euros by 2015, he said.  Palus declined to comment on the size of PPR’s stake in
Puma. PPR holds about 80 percent of Puma, he said in February.  Puma said it will release more details of its business
performance when it reports second-quarter earnings July 26,
when PPR, which also owns Gucci, reports first-half profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in London at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net ;
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  