-- Qualcomm Climbs as Emerging Markets Speed Smartphone Shift
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-07-19T13:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/qualcomm-forecast-misses-analysts-predictions-amid-shortages.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the largest seller of
mobile-phone semiconductors, rose after quarterly results showed
consumers in  emerging markets  are trading up to next-generation
handsets, lifting profitability.  Consumers outside  Europe  and  North America  are shifting to
more advanced devices, Chief Executive Officer  Paul Jacobs  said
in an interview. That’s adding to the company’s licensing
revenue, and increasing the likelihood that phone makers will
opt for chips from Qualcomm. The average price that Qualcomm
will use to calculate licensing revenue will be $216 to $222 for
fiscal 2012, from an earlier estimate of $207 to $217.  “In the U.S. and Europe demand has been muted, but we
continue to see strength in  China ,” said  Bill Kreher , a St.
Louis-based analyst at Edward Jones & Co. “The mix continues to
go to higher-end phones.”  The  shares  climbed 3.4 percent to $57.94 at 9:58 a.m. in
 New York . Through yesterday, they increased 2.5 percent this
year.  Even as the company benefited from gains in developing
economies -- and it predicted that demand will pick up in the
final three months of the year -- Qualcomm’s forecasts for sales
and profit this quarter missed analysts’ predictions. Fiscal
fourth-quarter profit will be 62 cents to 68 cents a share on
sales of $4.45 billion to $4.85 billion, San Diego-based
Qualcomm said in a statement yesterday. Analysts were projecting
profit of 76 cents a share and sales of $4.89 billion, the
averages of estimates  compiled  by Bloomberg.  Snapdragon Demand  Qualcomm is the largest of companies that concentrate on
designing chips and have them manufactured at so-called
foundries located in  Asia . The company said in April that demand
for its Snapdragon processors was outstripping supply and that
it would have to increase spending to bring on new manufacturing
partners.  “Smartphones displacing feature phones continues,” said
Ian Ing, an analyst at Lazard Capital Markets in  San Francisco .
He recommends buying Qualcomm shares. “Wireless is one of the
better end-markets right now.”  The company relies on outside suppliers, such as  Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co. (2330) , to build its chips. Qualcomm’s
inability to get enough chips made with the latest manufacturing
technology is forcing some of its phone maker customers to
postpone the introduction of handsets, and it’s limiting sales
of models already on the market.  Net income in the third quarter, which ended in June, was
$1.21 billion, or 69 cents a share, compared with $1.04 billion,
or 61 cents a share, a year earlier. Sales rose 28 percent to
$4.63 billion. Analysts on average had predicted profit of 73
cents a share and sales of $4.67 billion.  Strong Holiday?  “It’s a near-term issue that we’re going through,” said
Qualcomm’s Jacobs. He predicted that the last three months of
2012 will be “strong.”  As much as 30 percent of the annual total of smartphones
will be shipped in the last three months of the year as
companies begin selling new models aimed at firing up year-end
holiday-season sales, Chief Operating Officer Bill Keitel said
in interview.  Qualcomm sells baseband chips, which connect phones to
cellular networks, to wireless device makers, including Samsung
Electronics Co., Apple Inc. and  HTC Corp. (2498)  Those companies
account for more than a quarter of Qualcomm’s sales, according
to a Bloomberg  supply-chain  analysis.  The company is also expanding into the market for
application processors, the chips that run programs in phones
and tablet computers, and will be supplying its Snapdragon
processors to computer makers using the new version of Microsoft
Corp.’s Windows software.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  