-- Deutsche Bank, HSBC Traders Investigated in Libor Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-07-19T13:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/traders-at-deutsche-bank-and-hsbc-investigated-in-libor-probe.html
Traders at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  are
under investigation for interest-rate manipulation in a global
probe that led to a record fine for  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last month, a
person with knowledge of the matter said.  Regulators are examining the possible roles of Michael Zrihen at  Credit Agricole , Didier Sander at HSBC and Christian Bittar at Deutsche Bank, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the probe is continuing. Investigators are
focusing on their links to Philippe Moryoussef, an ex-trader at
Barclays, which was fined $451 million for rigging the euro and
London interbank offered rates, the person said.  Barclays employees tried to manipulate Euribor and Libor
for profit, while managers instructed rate-setters to make
artificially low submissions to avoid the perception the lender
was under stress amid turmoil in credit markets in 2007 and
2008. At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide for rigging the rate, and regulators from  Stockholm  to
Seoul are re-examining how benchmark rates are set amid concern
they are just as vulnerable to manipulation as Libor.  “We are starting to see a whole heap of ‘me too’ style
investigations and possible reappraisals of how indexes of all
sorts are set,” said Bob Penn, partner at law firm Allen &
Overy LLP in  London . “Wherever there’s a market that’s not
sufficiently liquid and not sufficiently transparent for daily
pricing to be observable, you have this problem.”  Barclays Departures  At least 34 traders have been caught up in the scandal,
either being fired or suspended by their employers or put under
investigation by U.K. or U.S. authorities. That includes
employees from Lloyds Banking Group Plc, Mitsubishi UFJ
Financial Group Inc., Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, UBS AG,
Citigroup Inc., Barclays and JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Libor scandal has also ensnared officials from the  Bank
of England , who have been accused of encouraging banks to
communicate about their rates. Three top Barclays executives --
Chairman Marcus Agius, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond 
and Chief Operating Officer Jerry Del Missier -- have resigned
following pressure from regulators and Parliament.  Stibor, Sweden’s main interbank rate, and Tibor in  Japan 
are among rates facing renewed scrutiny because, like Libor,
they are based on banks’ estimated borrowing costs rather than
real trades. The Japanese Bankers Association yesterday asked
the 16 banks that contribute to the rate answer questions on how
they make their submissions.  CFTC Probe  Central bankers will join Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  in September to review the future of Libor in September.
The Financial Stability Board will consider alternatives to
Libor, the benchmark for at least $500 trillion of securities
from derivatives to mortgages.  The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission, in its
settlement with Barclays last month, said one of the London-
based bank’s traders tried to align strategies with at least
four other banks’ traders to profit from positions in certain
futures contracts. The Financial Times reported names of the
banks and traders earlier.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said regulators,
including the CFTC and U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
are investigating.  “There’s any number of enforcement agencies, including the
 Department of Justice , CFTC, SEC and foreign and state
regulators, looking at this,” Bernanke told a House panel
yesterday as part of his semi-annual testimony to Congress.
“I’m sure that they will apply the law appropriately.”  Daily Survey  Traders involved in the alleged manipulation may be charged
by U.S. prosecutors before the Labor Day holiday on Sept. 3,
said a person with knowledge of the Justice Department
investigation in  Washington .  Libor is determined by a daily poll carried out on behalf
of the British Bankers’ Association that asks banks to estimate
how much it would cost to borrow from each other for different
periods and in different currencies. Similarly, Euribor, the
euro equivalent, is overseen by the European Banking Federation
in Brussels.  Swiss fund manager Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch & Cie.,
where Zrihen now works, said in an e-mailed statement that he is
no longer trading as the company investigates his role in the
alleged rigging. Zrihen joined Lombard in December 2010. The
firm has no involvement in the setting of Euribor or Libor.  HSBC Shares  Bittar, who now works at Bluecrest Capital Management LLP,
 Europe ’s third-biggest hedge fund with $30 billion under
management, didn’t respond to a phone call and e-mails seeking
comment. A spokesman for the firm declined to comment.  Zrihen didn’t reply to e-mails, and Sander didn’t answer a
message sent to a Facebook account under that name.  Michael Golden , a spokesman for Deutsche Bank, confirmed
that Bittar left the bank last year and declined to comment on
the investigation. Deutsche Bank has disclosed that it is
cooperating with regulators in the U.S. and Europe in the probe.  Credit Agricole said in a statement today it hasn’t been
accused of any wrongdoing and has responded to requests from the
authorities. The lender said it didn’t contribute rates to Libor
from 2005 to 2009. The bank does contribute to Euribor.  Barclays spokesman Giles Croot and HSBC spokeswoman Juanita Gutierrez declined to comment.  Societe Generale  is “fully”
cooperating with regulators, spokeswoman Helene Mazier said.  HSBC rose 0.2 percent to 546.9 pence as of 2:25 p.m. in
London trading. Credit-default swaps insuring HSBC Bank Plc’s
five-year bonds have fallen about 11 basis points to 131.065
from the beginning of the year in New York, according to prices
compiled by data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill
Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  