-- Rajesh Khanna, Who Started Bollywood’s Star Craze, Dies at 69
-- B y   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-07-18T13:16:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/rajesh-khanna-who-started-bollywood-s-star-craze-dies-at-69.html
Rajesh Khanna, the first superstar
of the Indian  film industry  whose romantic turns in Bollywood
movies during the late 1960s and early 1970s drew love letters
written in blood from swooning fans, has died. He was 69.  The actor, who looked frail and gaunt in recent TV and
public appearances, died at his home in a Mumbai suburb today,
the Press Trust of  India  reported, citing family members it
didn’t identify. The NDTV 24x7 channel said the actor was
suffering from cancer.  “Rajesh Khanna was a celebrated artiste who entertained
millions of Indians with his performance in a variety of
films,” Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said in a condolence
message. “He was called the first superstar of Indian cinema
and his popularity as a romantic hero in the 1960s and 1970s is
a part of our film folklore.”  Khanna started his career, spanning about four decades and
150 films, with “Aakhri Khat,” or “Last Letter,” in 1966
after winning a nationwide talent contest the previous year. In
1969, “Aradhana,” or “Worship,” in which he played an air
force pilot, made him the heartthrob of millions of female fans,
some of whom were known to leave the imprint of their lipstick
on his car to make up for being unable to get close to their
idol.  Dimple Kapadia, a fan mesmerized by Khanna’s on-screen
persona, married him in 1973, the year she began her Bollywood
acting career. The couple had two children, Twinkle and Rinkie,
before separating in 1984.  Popular Songs  While Khanna’s acting skills conveyed a vulnerability and
sentimentality that burnished his urbane good looks, he owed at
least some of his success to music composed by R.D. Burman and
songs sung by Kishore Kumar. Indian films feature songs in the
story, which often gain greater popularity and longevity than
the original movie.  The tune “Roop Tera Mastana,” or “Intoxicating Beauty,”
from “Aradhana” passed into Indian popular culture as Kumar
provided the lilt and Khanna lent his charisma to its erotically
charged lyrics.  Khanna’s most-famous role was in 1971’s “Anand,” where he
played a terminally ill man who strives to bring joy to those
around him. Anand was the name of the character.  “Anand” was significant for another actor’s career.
Amitabh Bachchan, who played Khanna’s doctor in the movie, went
on to succeed the latter and become Bollywood’s biggest star.
Khanna entered politics after his career waned and was elected
as a member of parliament for the Congress party from  New Delhi 
in 1992.  The actor was born on Dec. 29, 1942, as Jatin Khanna, and
was raised by foster parents, according to the  Press Trust of
India . His uncle changed Khanna’s name to Rajesh when he decided
to try his luck in Bollywood, according to the  news agency .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  