-- Treasuries Rise as Bernanke Says Situation Unsustainable
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-07-18T21:25:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/treasuries-stay-lower-on-speculation-housing-starts-rose.html
Treasuries rose as Federal Reserve
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  reiterated during his second day of
testimony to Congress that the U.S. fiscal situation is
“unsustainable,” supporting demand for the safest assets.  Yields on benchmark 10-year notes traded within five basis
points of an all-time low as Bernanke said economic activity
“decelerated” during the first half of the year, adding that
the central bank is “prepared to take further action as
appropriate.” The economy expanded at a “modest to moderate”
pace with “tepid” job growth in June and early July, the Fed
said in its  Beige Book  business survey. The Treasury will sell
$15 billion of 10-year inflation-indexed debt tomorrow.  “He seems to be a little more negative on the economy than
most people thought, so that’s why you have a very good bid for
Treasuries,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed-income in  New York  at
Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., one of 21 primary dealers
that trade directly with the Fed. “It’s been somewhat market
friendly.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  declined one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 1.49 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.75 percent note
due in May 2022 rose 1/8, or $1.25 per $1,000 face amount, to
102 10/32. The yield reached a record low of 1.4387 percent on
June 1.  The 30-year  yield  fell one basis point to 2.6 percent,
after dropping to a record 2.51 percent also on June 1.  Germany ’s five-year note yield fell as much as four basis
points today to a record 0.254 percent while the rate on
similar-maturity U.K. debt touched an all-time low of 0.472
percent.  Fiscal Cliff  A year-end “fiscal cliff” would damage the recovery,
Bernanke said in response to questions before the House
Financial Services Committee in  Washington , referring to tax
cuts on wages,  capital gains , dividends and estates that are
scheduled to lapse.  Economic expansion was limited over the past two months as
retail sales and manufacturing cooled in some regions, the Fed
said in the Beige Book, which is based on reports from its 12
district banks. The report, which gives central bankers
anecdotal evidence on the economy before they open a two-day
policy meeting in Washington on July 31, supports Bernanke’s
view that the U.S. lost momentum in the first half of 2012.  The Fed purchased $4.714 billion of Treasuries maturing
from August 2020 to May 2022 today as part of its program to
jump-start the economy.  ‘Increasingly Concerned’  “You get the sense people are increasingly concerned,”
said  Jim Vogel , head of agency-debt research at FTN Financial in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee . “People looking to put money to work in the
market can’t wait for big selloffs anymore. Those who have to
put cash to work will move quicker on smaller selloffs.”  Treasury trading  volume  reported by ICAP Plc, the largest
inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , dropped to $171
billion after climbing yesterday to $213 billion, the most since
July 11. Trading averaged $242 billion this year.  Volatility dropped to 61.9 basis points, the lowest since
May 11, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index.
It dropped to a five-year low of 56.7 basis points on May 7, and
has averaged 76 basis points this year, touching a 2012 high of
95.4 basis points on June 15. It reached a record high of 264.6
basis points in October 2008 as the financial crisis
intensified. The index measures price swings based on options.  ‘Economic Headwinds’  “The Treasury market is in the process of digesting what
additional Fed action may mean for the market,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We are pricing to the notion that there
are still significant economic headwinds both domestically and
abroad.”  Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  said he sees a
“significant drag” on the recovery. Risks from  Europe ’s debt
crisis are “more severe,” and are beyond U.S. control, he said
today at the CNBC Institutional Investor Delivering Alpha
Conference in New York.  Economists estimate data will show applications for jobless
benefits increased last week to 364,000 in the week ended July
14 from 350,000 a week earlier.  “Ten-year yields in the U.S. can go lower still,” Michael Pond, co-head of interest-rate strategy in New York at primary
dealer Barclays Plc, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Sara Eisen.
“We have been at 1.50 percent for a while, despite the fact
that the news out of Europe is worse, the economic date is
worse. We think rates have another leg lower to go.”  Barclays forecasts the yield on the 10-year note will drop
to 1.25 percent this year.  TIPS Auction  The Treasury’s 10-year TIPS sale follows a $13 billion
auction of the securities on May 17 that set a record low yield
of negative 0.391 percent. The previous record yield was
negative 0.089 percent on March 22. The May sale of the
securities was the third consecutive auction where investors
paid the government to hold their money.  The bid-to-cover ratio for the notes, which gauges demand
by comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, was 3.01,
the strongest since April 2010, and higher than the average of
2.73 at the past 10 auctions of the securities.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and similar-
maturity Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was
2.08 percentage points. The average over the past decade is 2.15
percentage points.  Ten-year yields will increase to 1.93 percent by year-end,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists with the most
recent projections given the heaviest weightings.  Treasuries returned 2.8 percent in the three months ended
yesterday, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch Indexes.
The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks handed investors a 4
percent loss including reinvested dividends, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  