-- Record Heat Wave Pushes U.S. Belief in Climate Change to 70%
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-07-18T17:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/record-heat-wave-pushes-u-s-belief-in-climate-change-up-to-70-.html
A record heat wave, drought and
catastrophic wildfires are accomplishing what climate scientists
could not: convincing a wide swath of Americans that global
temperatures are rising.  In the four months since March there has been a jump in
U.S. citizens’ belief that  climate change  is taking place,
especially among independent voters and those in southern states
such as  Texas , which is now in its second year of record
drought, according to nationwide polls by the University of
Texas.  In a poll taken July 12-16, 70 percent of respondents said
they think the climate is changing, compared with 65 percent in
a similar poll in March. Those saying it’s not taking place fell
to 15 percent from 22 percent, according to data set to be
released this week by the UT Energy Poll.  Following a winter of record snowfall in 2010, the public’s
acceptance of climate change fell to a low of 52 percent,
according to the National Survey of American Public Opinion on
Climate Change, which was  published  by the  Brookings Institution 
in  Washington . After this year’s mild winter, support jumped to
65 percent, the same as that found by the  UT Energy Poll  in
March.  “There has been a rebound in belief” in global warming,
Barry Rabe, a  University of Michigan  professor who published the
research on the Brookings study. “All respondents are quite
likely to use observations of weather as a big part of their
explanation.”  Temperatures Rising  The average temperature for the U.S. during June was 71.2
degrees Fahrenheit (21.7 Celsius), which is 2 degrees higher
than the average for the 20th century, according to the  National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration . The June temperatures
made the preceding 12 months the warmest since record-keeping
began in 1895, the  government agency  said. The U.S. is also
experiencing its worst drought since 1956, with 55 percent of
the contiguous states in moderate to severe drought.  Global temperatures reached a record in 2010, with data
showing surface temperatures increased at a rate of about 0.31
degrees Fahrenheit since 1980, according to a NOAA report
released this month.  Those temperatures  fell last year because
of the effect of La Nina, a weather pattern associated with
cooler waters in the equatorial Pacific. Still, it was one of
the 15 warmest years on record, the annual  State of the Climate 
report said.  ‘No Debate’  While the survey didn’t ask about the causes of climate
change, Sheril Kirshenbaum, the poll director, said “there is
no debate” that man-made  carbon emissions  are warming the
planet. “We need to get beyond arguing if it’s occurring and
start developing policies to adapt to extreme weather events and
rising sea levels,” she said in an e-mail.  Still, the American public’s views on the issue are linked
to recent trends in the weather, Rabe said.  The jump in public opinion over the past four months took
place in southern states, including drought-ravaged Texas, where
it climbed 13 percentage points to 70 percent this month,
according to the poll. Other areas of the country showed modest
variations in levels of support.  The latest University of Texas poll also found a sharp
divide between political parties, with 87 percent of Democrats
saying climate change is taking place compared with 53 percent
of Republicans. In March 45 percent of Republican respondents
said climate change is happening.  Among independent voters, those saying temperatures are
rising jumped to 72 percent in July from 60 percent in March.  Partisan affiliation is the best predictor of someone’s
belief in climate change, Rabe said.  The  University of Texas  poll of 1,039 respondents was taken
online July 12-16; there were 2,371 respondents in March. The
surveys are conducted by the  University of Texas at Austin’s
Energy Management and Innovation Center , a research facility
within the McCombs School of Business, with assistance and
assistance from industry and environmental groups.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net ; 