-- Romania Extends Referendum Voting Hours to Boost Turnout
-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u
-- 2012-07-18T15:48:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/romania-extends-referendum-voting-hours-to-boost-turnout-1-.html
Romania extended the voting hours to
boost turnout and increase the chances of reaching a minimum
threshold to make a July 29 referendum on removing President
Traian Basescu valid.  Lawmakers voted in favor of changing a referendum law to
keep polling stations open from 7 a.m. to 11 p.m. instead of 8
a.m. to 8 p.m., Mircea Dusa, the government minister in charge
with the relations with the legislature, told reporters today.
Parliament’s two houses also voted to introduce a requirement of
a minimum turnout to meet the terms of a Constitutional Court
ruling and pledges to European Union leaders.  The ruling coalition led by Premier Victor Ponta and
interim president Crin Antonescu’s Social Liberal Union wants to
oust Basescu amid a power struggle that weakened the country’s
currency to a record low this week. The court requirement of a
turnout minimum may give the president a chance to defeat the
referendum with 9 million people required to cast ballots during
the summer holidays.  “The only other change to the referendum law, besides the
voter turnout threshold, is the extension of the voting hours to
ensure increased participation because it’s a summer day,”
Ponta said today.  The leu weakened to as low as 4.5733 per euro on July 16
and traded at 4.5679 at 6:25 p.m. in Bucharest. It has lost 2.5
percent this month, more than any currency in the world except
the Sudanese pound.  Opinion Poll  About 66 percent of Romanians who plan to attend the
referendum would vote to impeach Basescu because he announced
wage cuts and tax increases in 2010, with 34 percent in favor of
him keeping his job, according to a survey by the polling
company CURS published by the newspaper Jurnalul National today.  The ruling coalition would get 63 percent of votes in a
general election, while the opposition would garner 19 percent
of the ballots, according to  the survey  of 1,104 people taken
between July 11 and July 16. It has a margin of error of 3
percentage points.  EU Warning  Romania’s political turmoil prompted European leaders
including European Commission President  Jose Barroso  and German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to urge the governing coalition to
restore impeachment rules eased by the government and voice
“great concern” over the efforts to fire Basescu and shore up
power in response to austerity measures.  EU leaders also urged the governing coalition to abide by a
Constitutional Court ruling and restore the court’s powers to
rule on Parliament decisions.  Ponta said today the legislature will respect the verdict
to amend a decree and restore the court’s rights to rule on
decisions, with the exception of resolutions on the lower
house’s autonomy, like changes of the heads of the two houses.  The opposition challenged the replacements of the previous
heads of the two houses, who were members of the  Liberal
Democratic Party , at the court, which couldn’t give a verdict
because of its diminished powers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  