-- Romney Character Involved in Taxes, Bain: Obama Pollster
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-07-18T14:55:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/romney-character-involved-in-taxes-bain-obama-pollster.html
President  Barack Obama ’s chief
pollster, Joel Benenson, said Republican presidential candidate
 Mitt Romney ’s experience in private equity and reluctance to
disclose additional tax returns speak to issues of character and
are fair game for debate in this election.  Romney’s years as chief executive of Boston-based Bain
Capital LLC, provide insight into how he would conduct himself
as president, and the barrage of campaign advertisements zeroing
in on his tenure there have led voters to view his business
experience more negatively, Benenson said at a Bloomberg
Breakfast today with reporters in  Washington .  “It’s certainly a character dimension,” Benenson said.
“It’s certainly the way you conduct business and the way you
think about things. It translates into where Romney wants to
take the country.”  With Republicans now joining the Obama campaign in calling
for Romney to release more years of tax returns, Benenson said
voters expect more transparency from the candidates. Voters are
looking for a candidate who can relate to them, who is going to
fight for them, he said.  The former Massachusetts governor’s resistance feeds an
impression that he “doesn’t quite get my life” and voters want
to know that Romney “played by the same rules, or is there a
different set of rules there,” Benenson said.  Romney’s Response  Romney’s aides have said he’s provided more than what’s
required by law. The Republican presidential candidate released
his 2010  tax return  and promised to make his 2011 documents
public when they are ready.  Ronald Reagan  made seven years of
returns public and  George H.W. Bush  disclosed three years.
Romney’s father, George, released 12 years of returns while
running for president in 1968.  “When you’re living up to your father’s worst suspicion
about what a candidate would do in releasing one or two years of
tax returns because it might be a fluke and just for show, I
think the public greets that with skepticism,” Benenson said.  Benenson, who is founding partner and president of Benenson
Strategy Group, said the onslaught of negative advertisements
since May, zeroing in on Romney’s time at Bain and his refusal
to disclose additional financial records, has had a measurable
effect on voters -- though he declined to provide his data.
Still, he said the number of undecided or persuadable voters is
smaller than many realize.  “When we look back at this, we may say, ‘Boy there was
more money spent in this campaign, between the PACs and
everything else, to influence a smaller number of people than we
ever have before,’” Benenson said.  Suburban Voters  Among the demographic groups who will decide the election
are suburban voters, especially women with children under the
age of 18 living at home, Benenson said. They were a key group
in the last several elections and remain so today, he said.  “They’re the CEO of their household in a lot of ways,”
Benenson said. They are “very worried about the future.”  Voters remain “pretty steady” in their perceptions of the
economy, and rather than judging it based on economic reports,
they’re “processing it more close to home from a personal
perspective,” he said.  “I don’t think the election will turn on a final jobs
report in any month up or down,” Benenson said. “The contours
of this election and the shape of this election are being
defined day in and day out.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Julianna Goldman  in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  