-- Romney Goes on Offense Saying Obama Denigrates Business Success
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-07-19T04:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/romney-says-obama-hasn-t-made-job-creation-a-priority-1-.html
Presumed Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney , pressing to quiet debate over his wealth
and business practices, is charging President Barack Obama with
stressing his own re-election over  job creation  and being
hostile to economic success.  Romney has sharpened his attacks on Obama this week in an
effort to refocus the race on the president’s record, portraying
him as disconnected from the concerns of ordinary Americans and
inept at creating jobs. He told voters at a town hall meeting in
the swing of state  Ohio  yesterday that, while Obama has held 100
fundraisers in the past six months, he hasn’t convened his jobs
council even once.  “His priority is not creating jobs for you; his priority
is keeping his own job, and that’s why he’s going to lose it,”
Romney told about 800 voters at a  community center  in Bowling
Green, a town in northwestern Ohio surrounded by corn and
soybean fields. “He is simply out of touch with what’s
happening in this country.”  The last public meeting of the president’s Council on Jobs
and Competitiveness was Jan. 17. The panel is headed by General
 Electric Co. (GE)  Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt .  ’Numerous Initiatives’  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said Obama has “got
a lot on his plate” when asked yesterday why the president
hasn’t met with the council since then. Carney also said Obama
has adopted “numerous initiatives put forward by the jobs
council.”  Rick Gorka , Romney’s traveling press secretary, said he
couldn’t provide the number of fundraisers Romney has held in
the last six months.  As Obama and his campaign have spotlighted Romney’s
business record, the Republican in increasingly combative tones
is describing Obama as out of step with American views and
values, painting him as hostile to capitalism.  “It is a philosophy which has as its intent taking from
those that are building and growing enterprises to give to
others that government wants to take care of,” Romney told
donors last night at a country club near Canton in northeast
Ohio.  Romney is hammering at Obama for his comment last week that
business creators aren’t solely responsible for the success of
their enterprises, saying the president’s views are anathema to
the American way.  ‘Can’t Understand It’  “This idea of criticizing and attacking success, of
demonizing those in all walks of life who have been successful,
is so foreign to us we simply can’t understand it,” the former
Massachusetts governor and private-equity executive said at his
Bowling Green event. “ Barack Obama ’s attempt to denigrate and
diminish the achievement of the individual diminishes us all.”  He was referring to an excerpt of a speech Obama made in
Roanoke,  Virginia , on July 13 in which he said, “If you’ve got
a business, you didn’t build that.” The president had just
referred to what he called “this unbelievable American system”
that, through tax dollars, provides school teachers and roads
and bridges used in commerce.  Romney invited all the business owners at his town hall
gathering to stand and raise their hands if they built their own
enterprises. Surveying the group, he shouted, “Take that, Mr.
President!”  Bain Issue  Romney is seeking to change the subject from what Democrats
and some Republicans say is inadequate disclosure of his
personal fortune -- estimated as high as $250 million -- and his
role in job layoffs and outsourcing by companies that dealt with
Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based private-equity company he co-
founded and led.  Joel Benenson, Obama’s chief pollster, said yesterday those
topics speak to “a character dimension,” and are fair game for
debate.  “It translates into where Romney wants to take the
country,” Benenson said at a Bloomberg Breakfast with reporters
in  Washington .  Obama’s campaign is airing television advertisements
questioning whether Romney is hiding something by refusing to
release more tax returns beyond the 2010 filing he has provided
and the 2011 records he has promised to disclose when they are
available. Some prominent Republicans have added to the pressure
on Romney, suggesting he release more returns to put the issue
to rest.  Durbin Proposal  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat who is close to Obama, said yesterday he would
seek a vote on a measure requiring federal candidates to
disclose financial interests in what he called overseas  tax
havens .  Romney has said he had a Swiss bank account with Zurich-
based UBS AG -- closed in 2010 -- and his  tax return  for that
year showed he had investments offshore including in the  Cayman
Islands , a popular spot for investors who don’t want to file
disclosures with the  Internal Revenue Service .  While Benenson said the tax-return issue was resonating
with voters, Republican House Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio told
reporters in Washington that the issue was of no interest to the
public.  “The American people are asking, ‘Where are the jobs?’
They’re not asking where in the hell the tax returns are,”
Boehner said at a Capitol Hill news conference. “This is
another sideshow intended to draw the American people’s
attention away from the real issue.”  Poll Results  A  New York  Times/CBS News national poll released yesterday
shows the presidential race a statistical tie, and that voter
approval of Obama’s economic record has declined.  Romney is backed by 47 percent in the survey, Obama by 46
percent in figures including voters who said they leaned toward
one of the candidates. Excluding those voters, Romney led with
45 percent to 43 percent for Obama.  The results, while within the poll’s error margin of plus-
or-minus 3 percentage points, represent the first time Romney
has had an edge in Times/CBS surveys since he emerged as the
presumptive Republican nominee in early April.  In the latest poll, 55 percent said they disapproved of
Obama’s handling of the economy, while 39 percent expressed
approval. In April, 48 percent disapproved and 44 percent
approved.  Unemployment Rates  The U.S.  unemployment rate  was 7.8 percent in January 2009,
when Obama took office. It rose to as high as 10 percent in
October 2009, and was 8.2 percent in June, Labor Department data
show. The economy has averaged 1.5 percent, quarter-on-quarter
economic growth, during Obama’s term. Since the third quarter of
2009, the first full quarter after the recession ended, growth
has averaged 2.4 percent.  As he publicly savaged Obama for his economic record,
Romney was privately preparing to select a running mate. He told
a voter questioning him in  Bowling Green  that he hadn’t yet
chosen a vice presidential candidate, and that whomever he
picked would be “a conservative.”  “We’re not quite there yet,” Romney’s wife, Ann, told ABC
News in an interview to air today on “Good Morning America,”
according to excerpts released by the network. “We’re going to
be there soon.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Bowling
Green, Ohio at  at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 