-- Rovi Tumbles Most Since IPO After Lowering Sales Forecast
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-07-18T20:06:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/rovi-shares-tumble-after-company-lowers-annual-forecast.html
Rovi Corp. (ROVI) , a provider of digital
entertainment guides, tumbled the most since its initial public
offering in 1997 after cutting its annual sales forecast amid
delays in adding new patent licensees.  Rovi  sank  43 percent to $10.01 at the close in New York,
for the biggest drop since its IPO. Through yesterday the shares
had fallen 28 percent this year.  Rovi cited delays in adding new licensees in key growth
areas including consumer electronics manufacturers and the TV
Everywhere field of use in the U.S. The company sued three
television makers in May, claiming infringement of patents for
its technology and parental-control chips that block television
content.  “In order to ensure the long-term protection of our key
intellectual property, we did not sign certain new patent
licensing agreements during the second quarter, as some expected
licensees would not agree to acceptable terms,” Tom Carson,
chief executive officer of the  Santa Clara , California-based
company, said in a statement yesterday. “In addition, certain
other deals with first time licensees are simply taking longer
to close than anticipated.”  The company projected full-year revenue excluding certain
items of as much as $680 million, according to the statement.
That compares with a prior  forecast  of a maximum of $785
million.  Mitsubishi, Vizio  Rovi expects to report a loss from continuing operations in
the second quarter of as much as 18 cents a share, compared with
a loss of 6 cents a share a year earlier.  Earnings excluding certain items were probably as much as
38 cents a share during the period. That compared to an average
analyst estimate of 57 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Second-quarter sales probably fell 12 percent to $158
million, the company said. Analysts had estimated $182.4
million.  “The challenges and increasing volatility facing this
company extend too deeply into the core business for us to
recommend the stock,”  Michael Olson , an analyst with Piper
Jaffray Cos., wrote in an investor note today.  Of particular concern is the “challenge Rovi appears to be
facing in getting paid for patent licensing from CE
manufacturers and service providers, which will likely result in
increasing litigation,” wrote Olson, who downgraded the shares
to neutral from overweight and cut his price target to $15 from
$35.  Last month, Rovi argued that  Mitsubishi Electric Corp. (6503) ,  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  and Vizio Inc. misappropriated its on-screen
guides that allow users to browse channel listing and upcoming
shows, according to a complaint filed in federal court in
Wilmington,  Delaware .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  