-- Samsonite to Buy High Sierra Assets for $110 Million
-- B y   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-07-18T02:43:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/samsonite-to-buy-high-sierra-assets-for-110-million.html
Samsonite International SA (1910) , the
branded luggage maker, agreed to buy High Sierra Sport Co. for
$110 million to add casual, outdoor and sports bags. The company
also said it will consider more acquisitions this year.  The cash deal for Gurnee, Illinois-based High Sierra is
expected to close this month, Samsonite said in a statement to
the Hong Kong stock exchange today. The acquisition is
Samsonite’s first since its initial public offering a year ago.  The luggage maker intends to make one or two more
acquisitions this year, Tim Parker, chief executive officer of
Mansfield, Massachusetts-based Samsonite said in an interview
today. Sales will probably rise about 20 percent in  Asia  and
between 10 percent and 15 percent in the U.S. this year, he
said.  “There are still some segments of the luggage market where
our brands are not represented, and obviously, I’m looking for
something very complementary,” Parker said, referring to the
possibility of more deals. “You don’t have to wait too long on
this.”  High Sierra Sales  Closely held High Sierra had 2011 net sales of $64.1
million, an increase of 31 percent from a year earlier, with
about 90 percent of revenue coming from the U.S., according to
the Samsonite statement.  Samsonite intends to boost High Sierra’s brand in Asia,
 Europe  and  Latin America , while the acquisition gives it access
to U.S. distribution among sporting goods retailers, according
to the statement. High Sierra is the official supplier of bags
and luggage for the U.S. Ski and Snowboard Team, according to
the statement.  The deal will help the sports bag maker “reach millions of
new customers,” Hank Bernbaum, High Sierra chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  Samsonite fell 1.1 percent to HK$12.14 as of 10:32 a.m. in
Hong Kong trading. That is 15 percent lower than its IPO price
of HK$14.50 a share in June last year, when the company raised
about HK$9.73 billion ($1.25 billion).  The company gets about 37 percent of its revenue in Asia,
more than any other region, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vinicy Chan in  Hong Kong  at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anjali Cordeiro at 
 acordeiro2@bloomberg.net  