-- Sabic Misses Estimates as Second-Quarter Profit Declines 35%
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-07-18T11:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/saudi-sabic-second-quarter-profit-drops-35-misses-estimates.html
Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the
world’s biggest petrochemicals maker, posted a 35 percent
decline in second-quarter profit on lower product pricing and
higher raw materials costs, missing analysts’ estimates.  Net income  fell to 5.3 billion riyals ($1.4 billion) from
8.1 billion riyals a year earlier, the Riyadh-based company
known as Sabic said in a statement today. The  average  estimate
of seven analysts was for a profit of 6.84 billion riyals,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The continuous slowdown in global economic growth,
especially in  Europe ,  China  and  North America , which negatively
impacted the prices of petrochemical products,” was the major
reason for the earnings decline, Sabic said.  Slower economic growth has reduced demand for products from
Sabic, which is building a $3.4 billion petrochemicals project
in the kingdom in a joint venture with Exxon Mobil Corp.  Saudi
Arabian Fertilizer Co. (SAFCO)  and Yanbu National Petrochemical Co.,
both units of Sabic, posted quarterly profits that missed
analysts’ estimates, while  Saudi Kayan Petrochemical Co. (KAYAN)  said
its loss widened.  The company’s  shares  gained 0.3 percent to 86.5 riyals at
2:35 p.m. in Riyadh. The stock has dropped 10 percent this year
compared with a 2.8 percent gain for the benchmark  Tadawul All
Share Index. (SASEIDX)   Cash Dividend  Sabic said it will distribute a cash dividend of 2 riyals a
share for the first half. The planned dividend payment is also
supporting Sabic’s share price, said Turki Fadaak, head of
research at Riyadh-based Albilad.  The European economic situation “was the most pressing,”
Chief Executive Officer Mohamed Al-Mady said during a press
conference today in Riyadh. European petrochemical prices fell
the most, while demand growth in  Saudi Arabia  remained “at
healthy rates,” he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2013 global growth
forecast as Europe’s debt crisis prolongs  Spain ’s recession and
slows expansion in  emerging markets  from China to  India . Growth
worldwide will be 3.9 percent next year, less than the 4.1
percent estimate in April, the fund predicted on July 16 in an
update of its World Economic Outlook.  Sales Decline  Second-quarter sales fell 5 percent from a year earlier to
46.5 billion riyals,  Sabic Chief Financial Officer Mutlaq Al Morished  said at the press conference. He also said that Sabic
didn’t “at the moment” see a need for a Sukuk sale.  The economy of the world’s largest oil producer is forecast
to expand 4.8 percent this year, the second-fastest pace in the
Gulf Cooperation Council after Qatar, according to an April
survey of economists compiled by Bloomberg. Petrochemicals
represented 37 percent of the kingdom’s total non-oil exports in
May, according to the Central Department of Statistics and
Information in  Riyadh .  “The reasons for the year-on-year decline are mainly lower
petrochemical prices as well as a decrease in Safco
profitability due to a plant shutdown,” Faisal Potrik, an
analyst at Riyad Capital, said before the results were
announced. “Safco contributes significantly to Sabic’s
profitability as it has high margins.”  Plant Maintenance  Safco posted  a 1 percent decline in second-quarter profit
to 784 million riyals, the company said July 14.  Second-quarter profit “witnessed some of the scheduled
plant maintenance activities for some of our plants, especially
in fertilizers, metals and some petrochemical plants,” Sabic
said in today’s statement.  Sabic, which makes fertilizers, plastics and steel, has
added output capacity through units and joint ventures. The
company plans to begin producing the crop nutrient urea in the
third quarter of 2014 at a 2 billion-riyal facility being built
by its fertilizer unit. It forecast steel-production capacity
will grow 50 percent this year to 6 million metric tons after
completing work at a plant in Jubail.  Clients have reduced inventories of petrochemical products,
Sabic said today. “In the third quarter, we may see the return
of these customers to increase the volume of their
inventories,” Sabic said. “Some high-cost producers will
decrease their production levels, which helps to return back the
balance in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  