-- HSBC Probe Brings Promises Bank. OCC Will Clean Up Act
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-07-23T16:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/hsbc-probe-results-in-promises-regulator-bank-will-clean-up-act.html
(Corrects Senate panel’s erroneous reference to John
Root’s title in 13th paragraph of story published July 18.)  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  executives
apologized for opening their U.S. affiliate to a river of
Mexican drug lords’ cash, and the U.S. regulator that failed to
stem the flow vowed to prevent a repeat.  “I deeply regret we did not act sooner and more
decisively,” Comptroller of the Currency  Thomas Curry  said at a
day-long hearing yesterday of the Senate  Permanent Subcommittee 
on Investigations. He said his agency, which regulates HSBC’s
U.S. arm, is partially responsible for letting Europe’s largest
bank give terrorists, drug cartels and criminals access to the
U.S. financial system and will take “a much more aggressive
posture.”  Calling the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency a
“lapdog not a watchdog,” Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma, the
senior Republican on the panel, accused the agency of seeing
weaknesses in the bank’s money-laundering safeguards and being
“at a loss” to act. Curry, who took office in April, said the
OCC will step in when a bank accumulates deficiencies, and has
changed its policy to count repeated compliance failures against
a bank’s safety-and-soundness rating.  Six current and former executives of London-based HSBC
displayed a united front of contrition at the hearing, with
compliance chief David Bagley announcing in front of the
senators that he will step down from his post. Bagley said his
bank “has fallen short of our own expectations.”  Shares Fall  HSBC shares fell 2.4 percent to HK$66.35 at 12:18 p.m. in
Hong Kong, bringing their decline for the year to 12 percent.
Credit-default swaps on HSBC Bank Plc were little changed from
the beginning of the year at about 142 basis points in  New York ,
according to prices compiled by data provider CMA, which is
owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and compiles prices quoted by dealers
in the privately negotiated market.  “Some international banks abuse their U.S. access,” said
Senator  Carl Levin , the Michigan Democrat who heads the
subcommittee, saying these transgressions were bad enough to
warrant a reconsideration of the bank’s charter. “The end
result is that the U.S. affiliate can become a sinkhole of risk
for an entire network of bank affiliates and their clients
around the world playing fast and loose with U.S. rules.”  Senate investigators focused on New York-based HSBC Bank
USA NA as a “nexus” for U.S. dollar services and transfers.
Coburn pointed out that HSBC isn’t alone and that “similar
problems exist at other banks.”  Paul Thurston, head of HSBC’s retail banking and wealth
management unit and former chief of the  Mexico  unit, said the
company is closing the unit’s U.S. dollar accounts in the Cayman
Islands, a jurisdiction that Levin said is “known for secrecy
and  money laundering .”  Mexican Acquisition  HSBC bolstered its presence in Mexico in 2002 by buying the
nation’s fifth-largest bank, Grupo Financiero Bital SA, better
known as Bital. Senate investigators found that Bital had a
history of deficiencies in anti-money-laundering controls.
Thurston described the business side in the Mexican bank
“overriding” its compliance side.  From 2000 to 2009, HSBC gave its lowest risk rating to
Mexico despite “overwhelming information” that it posed a high
risk for drug trafficking and money laundering, investigators
wrote in a 335-page report accompanied by 529 pages of HSBC e-
mails and other documents. Mexican clients included casas de
cambio, or currency-exchange firms, which U.S. authorities say
often launder money.  Wachovia Probe  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ’s Wachovia Bank unit paid $160 million in
2010 to resolve a criminal probe that cartels were using such
exchange houses to launder cash.  HSBC’s Mexican bank shipped $7 billion in bulk cash to the
firm’s U.S. bank in 2007 and 2008, leaving U.S. and Mexican
authorities concerned cartels were the source, the report said.  In 2007, a senior manager of group compliance at HSBC sent
an e-mail to a colleague condemning the Mexican affiliate for
“rubber-stamping unacceptable risks,” according to the report.  “What is this, the School of Low Expectations Banking?”
the executive, John Root, wrote in the e-mail.  Leopoldo Barroso, a former HSBC anti-money-laundering
director, told company officials in an exit interview that he
was concerned about “allegations of 60 percent to 70 percent of
laundered proceeds in Mexico” going to affiliates,
investigators wrote.  In 2008, the Mexican unit carried a years-old backlog of
3,659 accounts meant to be closed, according to a 2008 e-mail
from Warren Leaming, who was an HSBC legal adviser. He said 675
of those accounts were suspected of money-laundering activity.  Some of HSBC’s alleged dealings with state sponsors of
terror and Mexican drug dealers were reported in July 2005 by
Bloomberg Markets magazine, which documented bank ties to Iran,
Libya,  Sudan  and Syria.  Terrorist ‘Gateway’  HSBC’s U.S. unit “offers a gateway for terrorists to gain
access to U.S. dollars and the U.S. financial system,”
according to the subcommittee’s report.  The lender ignored links to terrorist financing among its
customer banks, including  Riyadh , Saudi Arabia-based  Al Rajhi
Bank (RJHI) , which had ties to terror groups through its owners, the
report said. Mohammad Al Yami, an Al Rajhi spokesman, didn’t
respond to an e-mail requesting comment.  Iran Sanctions  The report also cited HSBC’s violations of Treasury
Department sanctions on dealings with Iran. The U.S. is seeking
to isolate Iran from the global banking system through sanctions
enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control, or OFAC.  HSBC executives discussed those sanctions in e-mails cited
in the report. Bagley wrote after the Sept. 11, 2001, terror
attacks that the bank should pay attention to proposed
legislation to extend U.S. reach over foreign banks,
“particularly if we are unfortunate enough to process a payment
which turns out to be connected to terrorism.”  He wrote: “Some of the routes traditionally used to avoid
the impact of U.S. OFAC sanctions may no longer be acceptable.”  An outside audit by Deloitte LLP showed that 25,000
transactions totaling more than $19.4 billion involved Iran,
according to the report. Of those, as many as 90 percent passed
through the bank’s U.S. accounts with no disclosure of ties to
Iran, the report shows. Senate investigators documented similar
transactions involving  North Korea , Cuba, Sudan and  Burma .  Bank documents also showed HSBC’s U.S. unit cleared
transactions through at least six Iranian banks.  Since 2009, the U.S.  Justice Department  entered deferred-
prosecution agreements with six banks over OFAC violations,
including  ING Groep NV (ING) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC) , ABN Amro Holding NV,
 Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  and  Lloyds Banking Group Plc. (LLOY)  Most
violations involved stripping information from wire-transfer
documentation to hide the role of a banned person or country.  HSBC has said that it’s cooperating with investigations by
the Justice Department and other agencies into possible Iran
sanctions violations. It’s also cooperating in unrelated probes
by the Justice Department and  Internal Revenue Service  into
whether it helped Americans evade taxes through HSBC India.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  