-- LSE Revenue Increases on Information, Technology Income
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-07-18T09:35:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/lse-revenue-increases-on-information-technology-income.html
London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  said
fiscal first-quarter sales rose 10 percent, boosted by income
from information and technology services.  Revenue for the three months ended June 30 increased to 179
million pounds ($280 million) from 162.4 million pounds in the
same period a year earlier, according a Regulatory News Service
statement today. Total income, which includes money earned from
deposits at its central counterparty, gained 10 percent to 209.5
million pounds.  “Market conditions have remained weak and the summer
period is expected to be quiet,” the exchange said in the
statement today. “Notwithstanding continuing market and
economic uncertainties, the group remains well positioned and
will continue to focus on delivering benefits from recent
transactions and its more diversified range of products and
services.”  Chief Executive Officer  Xavier Rolet  is trying to diversify
LSE’s business away from traditional equities after losing
market share to alternative trading systems. In December, LSE
agreed to buy the 50 percent of FTSE International Ltd. it
didn’t already own from  Pearson Plc (PSON)  for 450 million pounds in
cash. In March, LSE announced it would purchase a majority stake
in LCH.Clearnet Group Ltd. LSE scrapped its bid for TMX Group
Inc. last year after failing to win support from the Canadian
company’s shareholders.  “It’s going to be a tough market with a quiet summer,”
said Richard Perrott, exchange analyst at Berenberg Bank in
London. “It’s positive that LSE has repositioned away from
commoditizing cash equities and towards post-trade and info
services. I’m still cautious given the exceptional nature of
treasury income.” He has a hold recommendation on the stock.  Europe ’s oldest independent bourse said in May that fiscal
second-half profit quadrupled, boosted by money earned from
deposits at its Italian central counterparty.  Net interest income, or income LSE earns from taking margin
or deposits from traders who use its Italian central
counterparty climbed 10 percent to 28.5 million pounds. The
exchange takes the margin deposits, pays the depositors interest
and itself earns an income by investing the funds for the short
term in the Italian  interbank market .  Rolet was awarded the maximum bonus of 1.52 million pounds
last year for “excellent performance, resilient leadership and
the delivery of strong financial results.” His base salary of
675,000 pounds for the 12 months starting April 1, 2012, will
remain unchanged from last year, LSE said in its annual report.  Sales from  capital markets , where LSE makes money from
company listings and trading, fell 15 percent to 67.5 million
pounds in the first quarter. Information-services sales climbed
68 percent to 75.3 million pounds.  Revenue from technology services increased 14 percent to
12.1 million pounds and post-trade services declined 12 percent
to 22.8 million pounds.  The shares fell 1.9 percent to 994 pence at 10:34 a.m. in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  