-- Segro Falls Most in Two Months After Tenant Files Bankruptcy
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-07-18T17:02:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/segro-falls-most-in-two-months-after-tenant-files-bankruptcy-1-.html
Segro Plc (SGRO) , the U.K.’s largest
publicly traded owner of industrial properties, declined the
most in two months after the tenant of a German industrial
property filed for insolvency.  Segro fell as much as 2.3 percent in  London  trading, the
most since May 4, after the company said in a statement today it
might not be able to replace the rent from Frankfurt-based
Neckermann.de GmbH. The stock was down 1 percent at the close.  Neckermann, a mail-order business, leases 94 percent of a
309,000 square-meter (3.33 million square-foot) facility in
 Frankfurt , from the Slough, England-based company. The building
is valued at 86 million pounds ($134 million) and would be worth
half that if Neckermann leaves, Segro said, citing a valuation
by  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   “Segro is seeking to identify both alternative customers
and alternative uses for the Frankfurt site in the event that
Neckermann exits the facility,” the company said in the
statement. “There is a significant risk that, from the
beginning of 2013, Segro will be unable, at least in the short
term, to replace the rent currently being generated from
Neckermann.”  Mike Prew , a Jefferies Group Inc. analyst, cut his price
target for Segro to 232 pence from 240 pence after the
announcement. The Frankfurt building was bought for 132 million
pounds in 2007, and the new CBRE appraisal is a “worst case raw
land valuation,” he wrote in a note to investors.  The German company has paid rent through July and Segro
said it has a bank guarantee “which should cover rent and other
payments due in respect of the site over the remainder of
2012.”  Neckermann also leases a distribution building in Alzenau,
35 miles from Frankfurt from Segro. That has been sub-leased to
another company until the end of the year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 