-- Seizures May Be Cities’ Last Hope in Mortgage Crisis
-- B y   A m i r   S u f i
-- 2012-07-18T22:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/seizures-may-be-cities-last-hope-in-mortgage-crisis.html
The failure to address crippling
 household-debt  burdens is leading local governments to embrace
the radical idea of using eminent domain to seize and write down
mortgages.  Over the past month, two cities in California -- Stockton
and San Bernardino -- have made moves to file for bankruptcy.
They have a combined population of about 500,000, and Stockton
is the largest city in U.S. history to file for bankruptcy.  The bankruptcies are largely a result of the unprecedented
explosion in mortgage credit during the early 2000s. In  research 
with Atif Mian of  Princeton University , we measured exposure to
the mortgage-credit boom using the fraction of households in an
area with low credit scores as of 2000.  We showed that during the boom, these low-credit-quality
areas had an unprecedented increase in mortgage-credit
originations driven by private-label securitization, which
helped push up  house prices  to unsustainable levels. During the
bust, these areas experienced the worst outcomes, including very
high rates of default and foreclosure.  San Bernardino and Stockton fit this pattern. As of 2000,
both cities had among the highest proportions of low credit-quality borrowers in  California . From 2002 to 2005, mortgage
originations grew a stunning 155 percent as house prices climbed
80 percent. The household debt-to-income ratio rose from 2.0 to
3.5.  Housing Prices  The housing-price boom in these areas proved to be
ephemeral:  House prices  have fallen 57 percent since 2006 and
foreclosures have skyrocketed. The default rate on  household
debt  in 2009 in these cities was 33 percent; that is, $1 of
every $3 of household debt was in delinquency.  And the damage from housing quickly spread to the rest of
the local economy. In these two cities, auto sales have
plummeted 50 percent from their 2006 levels (compared with an
average 21 percent in other U.S. cities). Employment has
declined almost 7 percent (compared with an average 3.7 percent
decline in other U.S. cities), and the  unemployment rate  is 14
percent, about 6 percentage points higher than the national
average. With housing values and economic activity collapsing,
the cities couldn’t keep up with their debt payments.  Of course, other factors, such as poor city management and
big spending, amplified city budget difficulties. But there is
little doubt that the mortgage-credit boom played the starring
role.  The San Bernardino and Stockton episodes are representative
of a national crisis: Crippling household-debt burdens and
foreclosures have been dragging down the economy for the past
five years. Renegotiation of underwater mortgages by the private
sector has been almost nonexistent. Despite strong  evidence  that
frictions related to securitized mortgages are preventing the
efficient restructuring of household-debt burdens, policy makers
have largely sat on the sidelines.  With local governments feeling directly threatened, some
cities have put forth a bold  solution : Governments should use
eminent-domain powers to buy mortgages, impose losses on
bondholders, and write down principal amounts owed by the
borrower. The argument is pretty simple: Debt burdens and
foreclosures are crushing our cities; private lenders are
showing no willingness to renegotiate; and there are no
meaningful attempts at the federal level to help. San Bernardino
and Stockton are Exhibits A and B.  Using eminent domain to impose losses on bondholders is
unquestionably a radical idea. Creditors view such disregard for
private contracts as outrageous. If the proposals are
successful, it might help debt-ridden cities in the short run.
Yet the resulting legal uncertainty might also wreak havoc on
credit markets in the future.  Borrowers Pay  At the same time, it is important to recognize how we got
to this point. Debt contracts require debtors to bear almost the
entire shock when aggregate asset prices decline. The
unemployment and household-spending data coming out of places
like San Bernardino and Stockton tell us that borrowers are
indeed paying a huge price.  There comes a point, however, when it becomes impossible to
impose further losses on debtors. And when that happens,
creditors are expected to take losses on their positions. This
is exactly why restructuring debt contracts is a valuable and
important part of the financial system. In corporations and
commercial real estate, such restructuring happens every day.  But this isn’t happening in  mortgage markets . Even five
years after the housing crisis began, the latest estimates
suggest that more than 20 percent of properties with a mortgage
are underwater, and the amount of  underwater mortgage debt  is
close to $1 trillion. The vast majority of these homeowners
haven’t been able to refinance with lower rates. So the lack of
renegotiation isn’t just about principal writedowns; lenders
haven’t even been willing to allow underwater homeowners to
refinance with lower rates.  Bondholders and other creditors are understandably furious
at the violation of private contracts implied by the eminent-domain proposals. They shouldn’t be surprised, though. Everyone
has a breaking point. Proposals to write down debt will become
even more radical unless the private sector shows a greater
willingness to renegotiate mortgages.  (Amir Sufi is a professor of finance at the University of
Chicago Booth School of Business and a contributor to  Business
Class . The opinions expressed are his own.)   Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on a pricey new weapon for
 fighting AIDS  and on the Pentagon’s upcoming  budget war ;
 Caroline Baum  on  term limits  for Congress;  Michael Kinsley  on
why  Mitt Romney’s faith  is his best asset;  Ezra Klein  on the
 Romney who could’ve been ; Nell Minow on the  zombies  hanging
around corporate boardrooms.  To contact the writer of this article:
Amir Sufi at  amir.sufi@chicagobooth.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@bloomberg.net  