-- Senate Democrats Press Candidate ‘Tax Havens’ Disclosure
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-07-18T21:33:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/senate-democrats-press-candidate-tax-havens-disclosure.html
The U.S. Senate’s second-ranking
Democrat said he will seek a vote on a proposal to require
federal candidates to disclose financial interests in what he
called overseas tax havens.  Illinois Senator  Richard Durbin , the chamber’s second-
ranking Democrat, told reporters today he will use the first
opportunity to offer his proposal as an amendment to legislation
on the Senate floor. Democrats have accused Republican
presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  of hiding money in offshore
accounts, and Durbin said Romney’s candidacy showed the need for
action on his proposal.  “My research suggests that Mitt Romney is the first
presidential candidate in American history with a Swiss bank
account,” Durbin said. “He has an obligation to explain why he
and his family decided that offshore tax havens were the right
place to park their money and their wealth.”  Romney released tax returns Jan. 24 that showed he and his
wife hold investments in the  Cayman Islands  and had a Swiss bank
account.  Durbin’s bill would require congressional and presidential
candidates and officeholders to report on their annual
disclosure forms any financial interest they or their spouse has
in a country the U.S. Treasury Department deems a tax haven.  The legislation requires the Treasury Department to create
a list of tax havens, based in part on its previous assertions
in court proceedings.  Romney’s campaign didn’t respond to a request for comment.  ‘Messaging Machine’  The Senate’s top Republican,  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky ,
today accused Democrats of using the chamber as “a messaging
machine.”  “There are a vast majority of senators of both parties who
would like to become relevant, who would like to participate in
the legislative process, who would like to do the basic work of
government,” McConnell said.  The Senate this week is considering a proposal to bolster
Democrats’ criticism of Romney. The measure would give companies
a 20 percent tax credit for the cost of moving jobs and
investment to the U.S. from overseas and deny companies a
deduction for the expense of moving investment out of the U.S.
The Senate plans to hold a procedural vote tomorrow on the bill.  Democrats maintain that Romney, as co-founder and chief
executive officer of the Boston-based private equity firm Bain
Capital LLC, supported sending jobs overseas. Romney disputes
that claim.  Obama’s campaign released a television ad July 14 accusing
Romney of “outsourcing” jobs and stashing his money in
offshore accounts. The ad, set to Romney singing “America the
Beautiful,” is scheduled to air in nine battleground states.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  