-- Serbian Central Bank’s Debut Direct Repo Attracts Seven Banks
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-07-18T14:49:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/serbian-central-bank-s-debut-direct-repo-attracts-seven-banks.html
Serbia ’s central bank sold 6 billion
dinars ($62.6 million) in its inaugural direct repurchase
auction as it offers cash to banks to ease a liquidity strain
sparked by policy-tightening measures introduced in June.  Seven banks participated in today’s auction, the Belgrade-
based Narodna Banka Srbije said in a statement on its website.
It was the first time the NBS offered the one-week repurchase
transactions since it began targeting inflation six years ago.  The amount matched overnight liquidity credits on July 16
of 6 billion dinars. Serbian banks have increasingly turned to
the overnight facility since June 22, two weeks after the
central bank raised its benchmark interest rate by a half-point
to 10 percent and tightened reserve requirement rules to drain
liquidity from the market because of the government’s fiscal
expansion and depreciation pressures on the dinar.  “The lowest accepted  interest rate  was 10.56 percent”
while the average cost of its cash was 10.81 percent, Vice-
governor Bojan Markovic said today in a telephone interview. The
bank fully met liquidity demand in “a routinely conducted
auction,” he said.  The central bank raised its main rate again on July 12 to
10.25 percent. That rate served as the “marginal” rate in
today’s auction, the bank said.  The National Bank of Serbia had used reverse repo
operations to drain excess liquidity since it began targeting
inflation in August 2006. High interest rates attracted both
domestic and foreign investors to invest with the central bank.  The one-week direct repo operations will be conducted at a
multiple price, offering banks a limited amount of cash with the
benchmark two-week repurchase rate serving as the minimum price.
The central bank will take dinar-denominated Treasury bills and
bonds as collateral.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  