-- Shell Said to Be in Anadarko Talks for Mozambique Gas After Cove
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-07-18T13:44:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/shell-said-in-anadarko-talks-for-mozambique-gas-after-cove-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has started
discussions with  Anadarko Petroleum Corp. (APC)  over a bid for the
U.S. producer’s gas assets in Mozambique, where energy companies
are looking to tap the largest discoveries in a decade,
according to people familiar with the situation.  Europe’s biggest  oil company  has begun informal talks with
Anadarko about a deal for some or all of its 36.5 percent stake
in the Rovuma-1 offshore gas fields, though Anadarko is
reluctant to sell before further results of exploration in the
area are known, the people said, asking not to be identified
because the talks are private.  Anadarko hasn’t begun a formal auction process for the
stake, which could fetch about $8 billion based on the price
Thai energy company  PTT Exploration & Production Pcl (PTTEP)  offered for
the U.K.’s Cove Energy Plc, which holds 8.5 percent of the same
fields, they said. Shell this week dropped a plan to buy Cove
after its shares more than doubled in a bidding war with PTTEP.  “Big oil certainly see significant resource potential out
of East Africa, with Mozambique today offering the largest
prize,” said Theepan Jothilingan, an oil analyst at Nomura
Holdings Inc. “It will be advantageous if you have one of them
coming in on the development of the liquefied natural gas
project and from that perspective Shell fits the bill. Anadarko
will look to scale down at the right price.”  Officials at Shell and Anadarko declined to comment on any
possible discussions.  Pay Premium  Though Shell balked at Cove’s price, it may willing to pay
a premium for Anadarko’s larger stake because it would give
Shell the opportunity to take on the operatorship of the block
from the U.S. company and lead the fields’ development, the
people said.  Energy companies are racing to develop new production in
 East Africa , one of the world’s least-explored oil and gas
regions, to meet rising demand  from consumers in  China ,  India ,
and other Asian countries.  Apache Corp. (APA) , the largest independent
U.S. producer after Anadarko, will drill Kenya’s first-ever
deepwater oil well next month, which could add a $70 billion oil
find to gas discoveries elsewhere on the East African coast.  A Shell deal for Rovuma-1, where an Anadarko-led group has
found natural gas equal to as much as six times the U.K.’s
existing reserves, would bring the Anglo-Dutch company’s capital
and expertise to bear on a complex energy project.  Indian Partners  The partners in the fields, which include India’s Bharat
Petroleum Corp. and Videocon Industries Ltd., will have to meet
the cost of building a liquefied natural gas terminal to allow
exports to  Asia . Those companies’ stakes could also be
attractive to Shell as it looks to build its position, one of
the people said.  Mozambique  will need $50 billion in investment over the
next decade to develop its natural-gas industry, the mining
minister said earlier this year.  The acquisition of Cove may be the first in a string of
East African deals as exploration continues, drawing the
interest of major energy companies like  Total SA. (FP)  Eni SpA, the
largest Italian oil company, has also announced major gas finds
off Mozambique, while in Tanzania the U.K.’s BG Group Plc and
Norway’s Statoil ASA have made discoveries. The more than 100
trillion cubic feet of gas discovered so far off Tanzania and
Mozambique could meet global demand for a year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  