-- Shell-Led Arctic Push Finds U.S. Shy in Icebreakers: Energy
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f   a n d   K a s i a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-07-18T13:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/shell-led-arctic-push-finds-u-s-shy-in-icebreakers-energy-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  has spent $4.5
billion since 2005 preparing to explore for oil off Alaska’s
north coast in the Arctic. U.S. taxpayers may end up paying
almost as much to supervise future operations in the region.  Shell, which may begin drilling next month, is one of at
least six companies planning to extract oil, gas and minerals in
the Arctic as global warming melts ice and opens new sea lanes
to commerce. As the companies move in, so must the Coast Guard,
to defend U.S. interests, perform sea rescues and coordinate the
government’s response to any oil spills.  The Coast Guard is ill-equipped for the Arctic. It lacks
appropriate communications and navigation systems, and will need
at least $3 billion in additional vessels and equipment,
assessments by the  Congressional Research Service  and the Coast
Guard itself show. Without more icebreakers, the service will be
“unable to accomplish its Arctic missions,” according to a
report last year by the Homeland Security Department’s inspector
general.  “The Coast Guard has zero capability in the Arctic,”
Admiral Robert Papp, the Coast Guard commandant, said in a July
13 interview at a Bloomberg Government breakfast in  Washington .
“If we are going to have a permanent presence there, it’s going
to require some investment. We don’t have the infrastructure in
place right now.”  Laying Plans  Countries and companies are laying plans for the Arctic,
which holds about a fourth of the word’s undiscovered oil and
natural gas, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey . The U.S.
has more than 1,000 miles of Arctic shoreline. Much of its oil
is off the Alaskan North Slope, which is bordered by the
Beaufort and Chukchi seas and about 1,100 miles northwest of
Juneau, the state capital.  Russia  in 2007 dropped a capsule containing its flag on the
seabed 14,000 feet below the  North Pole , staking a claim for oil
and gas reserves there.  Canada  plans to purchase military
icebreakers to protect its interests.  China , which doesn’t have
an Arctic border, has signed energy agreements with Iceland.  The Hague-based  Shell (RDS/A) , Europe’s biggest oil company, will
be the first to resume operations in the Arctic. It was last
explored in the early 1990s, before lower  oil prices  reduced
profit prospects. Shell is awaiting final approval from the U.S.
to begin drilling.  ConocoPhillips (COP)  and  Statoil Asa (STL)  of  Norway  also have won
rights to explore fields in the Arctic.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the
biggest energy company by market value, has reached an agreement
with Russia to explore its area of Arctic. Other  companies  with
plans for the region include  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Imperial Oil Ltd. (IMO)  and
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)   Icebreakers Critical  Even as ice recedes, the Arctic remains a vast frozen area
with hurricane-strength storms, below-freezing  temperatures  and
large ice floes, making icebreakers critical.  “Even with the open sea lanes, the Arctic is immensely
dangerous,” Peter Harrison, director of the school of policy
studies at Queen’s University in Ontario, whose work focuses on
the Arctic, said at a Brookings Institution conference on the
subject last month. “If anyone thinks it’s like Lake Michigan
in July and August, they are dreaming in Technicolor.”  Papp said the Coast Guard eventually would need three
heavy-duty and three medium-duty icebreakers for the Arctic. It
now has one medium-duty icebreaker and two heavy-duty ones
dating from the 1970s, neither of which is currently operable.
The service plans to repair one of them.  That means the U.S. would need to build four icebreakers --
two heavy-duty and two medium-duty -- with an estimated total
cost of $3.2 billion, according to a Congressional Research
Service report in April.  ‘Pay Attention’  Neither Congress nor the administration of President  Barack Obama  has proposed spending that kind of money on icebreakers.
The Obama fiscal 2013 budget has called for $8 million to study
building one. The Coast Guard’s five-year plan has called for
$852 million for its actual construction in subsequent years,
although Congress has yet to address the funding. It can take as
long as 10 years to build an icebreaker.  Russia has 25 icebreakers, which are being used “to assert
sovereign control over the Arctic region and its valuable
resources,” according to the Congressional Research Service
report.  Finland and Sweden have seven icebreakers each and Canada
has six, the report says. China has one icebreaker and another
under construction.  Exercises Beginning  “This is an internationally competitive area where we must
start paying attention,” Representative  David Price , a North
Carolina Democrat and ranking member of a House Appropriations
subcommittee in charge of allocating the money, said in a
telephone interview. “The Coast Guard is going to be called on
to do a lot of things up there and we can’t limp along with our
current icebreaker capacity.”  For the Shell drilling, the Coast Guard plans to send two
helicopters and two cutters to the Arctic, including one of its
three flagship National Security Cutters.  The Coast Guard opened a temporary base in Barrow, Alaska,
on July 16. It will practice oil-spill responses as well as
other maneuvers to test equipment and personnel readiness, said
Vice Admiral Peter Neffenger, deputy commandant for operations
at the service, in a telephone interview.  “Our goal is to have a presence up there that can
adequately address the activity for this summer and then to
think about what it means for the future,” he said.  The ships and equipment will have to be pulled from Coast
Guard duties elsewhere, Commandant Papp said.  No More Resources  “The problem with that is no one is giving me any
additional resources to take on this new mission,” Papp said in
the interview. The cutter in the Arctic is “not going to be
able to do drug interdiction in the eastern Pacific on the drug
routes from  South America . We’re going to have to pull other
ships off fishery patrols in the western Pacific from a Naval
exercise in the western Pacific.”  Placing a National Security Cutter in the Arctic will help
because the ship can function as an air station and
communications center, and has three boats for rescue missions
and security operations, he said.  “It gives us immediate capabilities and infrastructure in
the summer, and when the ice starts forming we can pull it
back,” Papp said.  Shell’s Preparation  The U.S. plan to oversee the drilling is inadequate and
favors Shell at the expense of taxpayers, said Michael Conathan,
director of Ocean Policy at the Center for American Progress, a
Washington-based research firm.  “Those are not assets that were just sitting on a shelf
somewhere waiting to be deployed,” Conathan said in a telephone
interview. “Instead of doing other jobs, they will be
babysitting Shell’s operations and the American taxpayer will be
on the hook.”  Shell is bringing its own equipment for the job and
emergencies, including 33 vessels and 600 workers, said Steve
Phelps, Shell’s manager of exploration for  Alaska .  “We know the region is very remote and very dangerous,”
Phelps said at the Brookings Institution forum. “We realize if
we need it, we have to bring it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  