-- Slim's Telmex Starts Online News Service for Guadalajara
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-07-18T20:14:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/slim-s-telmex-starts-online-news-service-for-guadalajara.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s phone
company  America Movil SAB (AMXL) , pushing further into programming
content, is starting an online news service focusing on
Guadalajara,  Mexico ’s second-largest city.  The venture is a partnership with El Universal Cia.
Periodistica Nacional SA, publisher of one of Mexico’s largest
national newspapers, El Universal, according to the project’s
 website . Executives from both companies announced the project,
which also covers the surrounding state of Jalisco, today in
Guadalajara.  The project pits  America Movil  against broadcasters Grupo
Televisa SAB and TV Azteca SAB along with local newspapers. The
TV companies have complained that America Movil can’t provide
online video content in Mexico because it doesn’t have a
government license to offer video programming over its phone
network. Slim’s company says while it can’t offer cable service
it doesn’t need a permit to produce video for the Internet.  America Movil’s Telmex unit has offered a national online
news service, Uno TV Noticias, since 2008, and the new project
is the company’s first to focus on a local market. With a
population of 4.4 million, the Guadalajara area ranks only
behind Mexico City in size.  The two companies, which will offer a print and video
service, plan to expand with similar projects in other Mexican
cities, said  Arturo Elias , a Telmex vice president, at the
event.  Slim has also been expanding his investments in news media
companies, though Uno TV Noticias is the only one he controls
outright. His holdings include an 8.1 percent stake in  New York
Times Co. (NYT)  and a 2.7 percent stake in  Promotora de Informaciones
SA (PRS) , publisher of  Spain ’s El Pais newspaper, according to
Bloomberg data.  Newsgathering  Telmex and El Universal both can bring newsgathering and
video production capabilities to the project, since they produce
short clips for their own websites.  Telmex’s video service has also offered coverage of events
such as Formula One races and the Pan American Games, drawing
the ire of the broadcasters, who have also been pushing into the
markets Slim dominates.  Mexico’s Federal Telecommunications Commission is currently
studying whether Telmex can provide online content without a
government license.  Televisa controls three cable-TV carriers that compete with
America Movil for Internet and phone customers in Mexico. The
company has a 50 percent stake in Grupo Iusacell SA, the third-
largest mobile-phone carrier in Mexico behind America Movil and
 Telefonica SA. (TEF)  The other half of Iusacell is owned by  Ricardo Salinas , the billionaire who controls TV Azteca.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Guadalajara at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  