-- Solar Acquisitions Doubled to Record $10.8 Billion
-- B y   J o s e p h i n e   F o r s t e r
-- 2012-07-19T09:38:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/solar-acquisitions-doubled-to-record-10-8-billion-bnef-says.html
(Corrects transposed figures in last paragraph. Story
first moved on July 18.)  The value of acquisitions of solar
photovoltaic plants more than doubled to $10.8 billion in 2011
as developers sold projects to longer-term investors, Bloomberg
New Energy Finance said.  A record 3.9 gigawatts of projects changed hands last year,
up 122 percent from 2010, the London-based consultant said in a
report published today. Subsidy cuts across  Europe  affecting new
projects drove up demand for solar projects already under way.  The gains reflect efforts by developers to cash in on
investments in projects that reaped the highest level of
government-backed subsidies, which have been cut in the past
year across Europe. Buyers were eager to tap guaranteed returns
in many cases more than double the yields of the safest
 government bonds .  “The boom in solar PV in Spain and Italy, driven by
unsustainable feed-in tariffs, left a pool of assets generating
very attractive cash flows,” said  Michael Liebreich , chief
executive of New Energy Finance. Developers “are selling to
longer-term investors with a lower cost of capital, who are
happy with returns of between 5 percent and 15 percent.”  The most active market for acquisition was  Italy , with 540
megawatts purchased, including 242 megawatts sold by Athens-
based construction company Terna SA. The U.S. had the five
biggest deals by capacity, all for solar parks under
construction.  Worldwide, 2.8 gigawatts of the sales last year consisted
of finished or partly-completed projects, while 1.1 gigawatts
were sites with permits where work hadn’t begun.  Buyers’ valuations of photovoltaic projects have fallen by
about 44 percent from their peak in 2008. That year, global
average sales values were 6.4 million euros per megawatt ($8
million), compared with 3.6 million euros a megawatt in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Josephine Forster in London at 
 jforster13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  