-- Southeast Asia Shares Best With Top Risk-Adjusted Returns
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-07-18T08:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/southeast-asia-shares-best-with-top-risk-adjusted-returns.html
Southeast Asia (MXSO) , the heart of the
1997 currency crisis, produced the best risk-adjusted returns
for Asian stocks since global markets started to rebound three
years ago, as investors sought a haven from Europe’s debt
turmoil.  Benchmark indexes in the Philippines, Malaysia, Thailand,
Indonesia and Singapore returned the most among Asia-Pacific
markets worth more than $100 billion in the three years ended
July 17, according to the BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. All
five beat an index of developed markets by risk-adjusted
returns, and four came out on top over five years.  “Investors have been focused on and rewarded in the
smaller Asean markets because they have been more defensive and
domestic-oriented,” said Timothy Moe, a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., referring to the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations. “That’s been a better
source of growth than what we see in the other more cyclical
markets in North Asia. It probably will continue,” he said in a
Bloomberg television interview in Hong Kong on June 26.  Southeast Asian governments have bolstered spending on
infrastructure and stepped up efforts to spur domestic
consumption in a bid to reduce their economies’ reliance on
exports. That’s helping to shield the nations from Europe’s debt
crisis and a global economic slowdown, which has fueled
volatility in the northern Asian markets.  Asean countries shipped 32.9 percent of their exports to
the U.S. and European Union in 2010, down from 72.4 percent in
2000, according to data from the organization’s  website . China’s
exports to the EU and U.S. accounted for a combined 38 percent
of total overseas shipments in 2010, according to Bloomberg
calculations based on data from the customs bureau.  Volatile North  North Asia had six of the 10 most volatile stock indexes
for the three years through July 17, according to Bloomberg’s
riskless return ranking. Four of the six are China-related.
Malaysia, Singapore, the Philippines and Taiwan had below
average volatility readings.  Southeast Asia “is where we find the best quality
companies at the most attractive prices,” Alistair Thompson,
who helps manage $43 billion at First State Investments in
Singapore, said in a phone interview on June 28. “There is more
domestic momentum. We won’t change our holding in Southeast
Asia. Not until we see better value elsewhere.”  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  produced the second-
highest total return with the fifth-lowest volatility for a
risk-adjusted gain of 7.2 percent over the three-year period,
the best in the region. Thailand ranked second, helped by the
highest total return and average volatility. Singapore was
fifth, with a risk-adjusted return of 2.3 percent.  Developed Markets  All five beat the MSCI World Index of developed markets,
which returned 2 percent after adjusting for price swings, and
all but Singapore did better than the  Standard & Poor’s  500
Index, the benchmark for the U.S., which gained a risk-adjusted
2.7 percent.  Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand and the Philippines also
topped the risk-adjusted return ranking over the past five
years, with Malaysia posting the lowest volatility and the
Philippines having the fourth-lowest price swings.  The risk-adjusted return, which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price variation, giving a measure of income per unit of
risk. A lower volatility means the price of an asset does not
swing dramatically over a specified time period, reducing the
potential for unexpected losses.  Outpacing Europe  In the past three years, Southeast Asia’s economies have
seen average quarterly growth rates of between 1.8 percent in
Thailand and 6 percent in Singapore, compared with average
growth of 0.6 percent in the U.S. and a 0.3 percent contraction
in the euro region, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Five Asean economies -- Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines,
Malaysia and Vietnam -- along with China and India will outpace
the rest of the world over the next two years, according to the
 International Monetary Fund  in a July 16 report. In 2013, the
Asean-5 will grow 6.1 percent, compared with 2.3 percent in the
U.S., 0.7 percent in the euro area and 1.5 percent in Japan, it
said.  Faster economic growth has fueled stock-market gains and
valuations. The MSCI South East Asia Index has rallied 13
percent this year, including dividends, and more than doubled
since 2008. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has gained 3.8 percent
in 2012 and returned 43 percent since the end of 2008.  Dutch Lady  Companies that have benefited from Southeast Asian
governments’ efforts to bolster  consumer spending  include  Big C
Supercenter Pcl (BIGC) , Thailand’s second-biggest retailer, Robinsons
Land Corp., the second-largest Philippine mall operator, and
Malaysia’s Dutch Lady Milk Industries Bhd., which have each
surged more than 50 percent this year. PT Unilever Indonesia,
the unit of the world’s second-biggest consumer-goods company,
rose 28 percent in 2012, outperforming the  Jakarta Composite (JCI) 
Index’s 6.8 percent gain.  UMW Holdings Bhd. (UMWH) , a Malaysian
assembler of vehicles for Toyota Motor Corp., has surged 42
percent, the top gainer in the  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index. (FBMKLCI)   MSCI’s Southeast Asian measure rose 0.2 percent as of 11:14
a.m. in Singapore, poised for the highest close since May 8. The
gauge is valued at 13.9 times estimated profit and trades at an
18 percent premium to the broader Asian  index , the widest gap on
record according to Bloomberg data going back to October 2009.  Southeast Asia is unlikely to sustain its outperformance as
higher valuations and progress in resolving Europe’s debt crisis
will help revive investors’ appetites for riskier assets,  Markus Rosgen , Hong Kong-based chief Asian strategist at Citigroup
Inc., said in a phone interview on June 26. Investors should
start to favor North Asia instead of staying overweight in so-
called defensive markets like Southeast Asia, he said.  ‘Quite Defensive’  “For the moment, people are quite defensive and they like
quality companies,” Rosgen said. “We are not convinced that
what’s happening in Europe is another Lehman crisis. We’ve
actually been telling people that what they should be doing is
adding or thinking of adding to risks.”  Citigroup had underweight calls for the Philippines,
Malaysia, Thailand and Indonesia, Rosgen wrote in a report dated
June 29. He upgraded Singapore to overweight from underweight,
saying that the island state is “the cheapest way to play
Asean.” Singapore’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI)  trades for 13.9 times
estimated profit, compared with its three-year average of 14.6,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Southeast Asia “does not have debt problems like Europe,”
 Alan Richardson , a Singapore-based  fund manager  for Samsung
Asset Management Co., who helps oversee $82 billion, said by
phone on July 2. The region “hasn’t been through a strong
investment up-cycle compared to the BRIC economies, so
increasingly investors are seeing Asean has an alternative
equity class.”  Asian Crisis  The region was the epicenter of the Asian financial crisis
in 1997 when governments from Thailand to Indonesia depleted
their foreign reserves in costly attempts to defend their
currencies targeted by speculators. Thailand was forced to
devalue the baht in July of that year, forcing companies to
default on their debt. That sparked a slump in other regional
currencies, which dragged Asian economies into recession.
Thailand, Indonesia and  South Korea  were forced to seek
International Monetary Fund bailouts.  The Philippines topped Asia’s risk-adjusted returns
rankings in the three years to June 29 as government investment
programs lured investors. Philippine stocks are valued at 16.4
times estimated earnings, the most expensive among 15 Asian
markets tracked by Bloomberg. The index rallied 21 percent this
year, Asia’s best performer after Pakistan, as the government
announced a record spending program and plans to seek $16
billion of investments.  Felda Share Sale  The nation’s economy grew 6.4 percent in the first quarter,
the fastest pace in Southeast Asia. Standard & Poor’s raised the
nation’s debt rating on July 4 to BB+, one level below
investment grade and the highest since 2003.  The FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index had the fourth-highest
total return and the least price swings, making it No. 3 by
risk-adjusted return over the three years. The measure rose to a
record on July 17 and trades at 15 times estimated profit, the
second-most expensive in Southeast Asia.  Najib Razak, who took over as prime minister in 2009,
unveiled a program in 2010 that pledged $444 billion of private
sector-led investments. Investors have also been lured by
plantation owner Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd.’s $3.3
billion initial public offering, the world’s largest IPO this
year after Facebook Inc. Institutional demand for shares
exceeded supply by more than 40 times in the offering.  ‘High Premium’  Both Malaysia and the Philippines “are at a premium in
terms of valuations to the rest of emerging Asia,”  Jonathan Garner , Morgan Stanley’s chief Asia and emerging-market
strategist said by phone in Hong Kong on June 26. “The
domestically driven nature of earnings and the currency
stability mean people are much more comfortable with earnings
risk than they are in countries that are more globally
sensitive. At the moment, people are willing to pay a high
premium for that earnings stability.”  Analysts estimate companies in the MSCI Southeast Asia
Index will post sales growth of 14.2 percent this year, compared
with a 13.1 percent increase for MSCI Asia Pacific Index
companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Southeast
Asian companies generate average cash-flow of $78.79 a share,
compared with $18.72 for shares in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index,
the data show.  Record High  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  has rallied 19 percent this year as
domestic consumption, industrial production and investments
rebounded following the nation’s worst floods in almost 70 years
in 2011. The  Finance Ministry  is forecasting 2012 economic
growth of as much as 6.2 percent, compared with 0.1 percent in
2011.  Indonesia’s  economy , Southeast Asia’s biggest, expanded 6.5
percent last year, the fastest pace since before the 1997 Asian
financial crisis.  Bank Indonesia  has kept its benchmark  interest
rate  at a record low of 5.75 percent for five straight months to
help spur investment and consumption.  The Jakarta Composite index, which returned 107 percent in
the three years to June 29, rose to a record on May 3. The gauge
trades for 14 times estimated profit, compared with its three-
year average of 14.8 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Singapore’s Straits Times Index climbed 14 percent this
year as low interest rates spurred property demand even as the
government introduced real-estate curbs. New casinos and a
Formula One night race helped the city draw a record 13.2
million tourists in 2011.  “We are very bullish about Southeast Asia as the region’s
equities have impressively stayed resilient,” said Jessada Sookdhis, who helps manage about $632 million as chief
investment officer at CIMB-Principal Asset Management Co. Ltd.
in Bangkok. “We expect those markets to outperform other Asian
peers. Their domestic consumption will continue to be the
biggest drivers for economic growth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net ;
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  