-- Rand Falls First Day in Four as Lower Inflation Fuels Rate Bets
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-07-18T14:34:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/south-africa-yields-fall-to-record-on-rate-bets-rand-weakens.html
The rand declined for the first time
in four days after the inflation rate fell for a second straight
month in June, giving the central bank more scope to cut
borrowing costs to support growth in  Africa ’s biggest economy.  South Africa’s currency retreated 0.2 percent to 8.1835 per
dollar as of 10:47 a.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the nation’s
6.75 percent bonds due 2021 rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 6.81 percent. The yield dropped 37 basis
points in the previous six days to a record 6.79 percent
yesterday.  The consumer inflation rate fell to 5.5 percent from 5.7
percent in May, Pretoria-based Statistics South Africa said. The
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 18 economists was 5.6
percent. Forward-rate agreements are pricing in a 70 percent
probability of a rate cut by year-end, which would reduce
returns for investors who borrow in dollars to buy high-yielding
currencies, known as the carry trade.  “We keep a negative view on the rand, as it is vulnerable
to renewed market volatility and the bleak global economic
outlook,” Esther Law, the London-based director of emerging-
market strategy at Societe Generale SA, and colleagues wrote in
e-mailed comments. “The currency will not find support from the
 Reserve Bank .”  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee will leave its
benchmark repurchase rate unchanged at 5.5 percent tomorrow, 16
out of 18 economists in a Bloomberg survey said. Governor  Gill
Marcus  may lower forecasts for growth and inflation, setting the
stage for a cut by year-end,  Standard Bank  Group Ltd. said.  ‘Rand Negative’  “A rising discounted probability of a rate cut would be
rand negative in an international financial market environment
motivated by interest differentials,” Bruce Donald, a
Johannesburg-based currency strategist at Standard Bank, said in
e-mailed comments.  Forward-rate agreements, used to speculate on  interest
rates , have declined six basis points in the past month to 5.21
percent. The rate is 37 percentage points lower than the
Johannesburg Interbank Agreed Rate, indicating that traders are
pricing in more than a 70 percent probability of a rate cut
within the next six month.  Yields on  South Africa ’s $1.5 billion of 4.665 bonds due
2024 dropped five basis points to 3.21 percent, the lowest since
they started trading on Jan. 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  