-- South Korea Probe on Rigged Rates Widens to Banks, Officials Say
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2012-07-18T05:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/south-korea-probe-on-rigged-rates-widens-to-banks-officials-say.html
South Korea ’s four biggest banks are
being probed by the nation’s antitrust agency as it widens an
investigation into whether brokerages colluded on a key money-
market rate, according to officials at the lenders who were
briefed on the matter.  Fair Trade Commission  staff visited the headquarters of the
banking units of  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790) ,  KB Financial Group
Inc. (105560) , Shinhan Financial Group Co. and Woori Finance Holdings Co.
today to meet with employees and review documents tied to rates
including certificate of deposit charges, the four people said,
asking not to be named as they aren’t authorized to speak to the
press on the issue.  Kim Hyung Bae, a spokesman for the FTC, declined to comment
on the probe. Press officials at the four banks also declined to
comment in e-mailed replies to queries.  South Korea’s 91-day  certificate of deposit  rate is a
benchmark for banks’ variable rate for lending and borrowing as
well as for interest swaps or floating yields for bonds. Quotes
are collected twice a day by the Korea Financial Investment
Association, or KOFIA, from ten brokerages. The highest and
lowest two are eliminated and the remaining are averaged.  Some South Korean brokerages are under investigation by the
commission on whether they collaborated to keep the certificate
of deposit rates artificially high, press officials at three
brokerages with knowledge of the matter said yesterday.  MoneyToday reported earlier today that the FTC began
investigating the four banks. The Korean-language online news
provider cited unidentified financial industry officials.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  