-- Spain Sells Bonds in Market Test as Street Protests Loom
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-07-19T08:10:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/spain-sells-bonds-in-market-test-as-street-protests-loom.html
Spain  plans to sell as much as 3
billion euros ($3.7 billion) of debt today as rising borrowing
costs threaten its access to  capital markets  and Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  faces a round of street protests.  Spain will auction bonds maturing in 2014, 2017 and 2019 as
the Treasury continues to focus on shorter-dated debt to avoid
paying the 6.99 percent yields investors demand to lend for a
decade. Still, five-year benchmark yields rose to 6.41 percent
today, narrowing the gap with 10-year yields to 58 basis points
from as wide as 154 basis points in January.  Spain needs to persuade investors to finance the euro
region’s third-largest budget deficit after the nation sought a
100 billion-euro European bailout for its banks last month.
Lawmakers in Madrid’s Parliament, which was surrounded by
protective barriers, vote today on spending cuts that Rajoy
defended yesterday as necessary for his government to be seen as
a credible borrower.  “It’s clearly not sustainable in the long term for Spain
to be trying to service their debt levels at the current rate of
interest in the short end,” said Craig Veysey, head of fixed
income at Principal Investment Management in  London , part of
Sanlam Group, which manages $72 billion. “Of course that’s the
only place where they can issue debt at the moment.”  Protest Marches  Rajoy, in power since December, announced 65 billion euros
of spending cuts and tax increases on July 11 after the second
recession since 2009 and a 25 percent jobless rate made his
previous three rounds of austerity insufficient. Lawmakers of
the ruling  People’s Party , who have a majority in Parliament,
will ratify a decree on the measures in a session that started
at 9 a.m. in Madrid. Rajoy didn’t attend the debate, leaving
Budget Minister Cristobal Montoro to defend the cuts.  “We are acting out of necessity, necessity determines the
road to follow,” Montoro said. “That’s why some of our ideas
have been left by the wayside.”  Spain’s two biggest unions have called demonstrations
across the country to protest the cuts to public workers’ pay
and jobless benefits and an increase in  sales tax . Parliament
was protected by metal barriers today as police stood guard.  “There needs to be action from politicians because these
sort of yield levels certainly won’t help Spain to reduce its
budget deficit,” said  Orlando Green , a fixed-income strategist
at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “It’s
certainly not a sustainable path.”  French Auction  France , which sold bills at negative yields on July 16,
also auctions debt today at 11 a.m. and 12 p.m. in Paris. It
aims to sell notes maturing in 2015, 2016 and 2017 and
inflation-linked bonds maturing in 2019, 2022 and 2040.  Germany 
sold two-year securities at a negative yield for the first time
yesterday as investors were prepared to see their funds eroded
in exchange for security.  Spain will sell bonds maturing Oct. 31, 2014, July 30, 2017
and Oct. 31, 2019. None of the securities acts as a benchmark
and each bond already has an outstanding volume of at least 16
billion euros, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The two-
year security traded to yield 5.25 percent yesterday.  By focusing on shorter-dated bonds, the Treasury has
reduced the average  maturity  of outstanding debt to 6.36 years
in May, compared with 6.84 years in 2007, when Spain was running
a  budget surplus  funded by  tax revenue  from a real-estate boom.  Increasing Volatility  “It increases the volatility in the market as you have to
roll over at a higher frequency,” said Tobias Blattner, a
European economist at Daiwa Capital Markets. “It merely serves
to highlight the increasing lack of confidence in the Spanish
government, in particular when it comes to vital long-term
investors.”  Spanish banks, increasingly dependent on the  European
Central Bank  for funding, hold 28 percent of Spain’s outstanding
debt, compared with 17 percent at the end of last year. Non-
residents have cut their holdings to 37 percent from 50 percent
in that period, Treasury data show.  Spain has already sold 65 percent of the 86 billion euros
of bonds it planned to sell this year to finance the  budget
deficit , the  Economy Ministry  said on July 17.  The central government added to its issuance needs last
week by agreeing to help regional administrations that are
locked out of debt markets. The Treasury will fund most of the
18 billion-euro facility to help them finance deficits and meet
debt redemptions, while the state-owned lottery will provide 6
billion euros.  The government hasn’t revised its issuance forecast since
that plan was announced on July 13. Another factor which might
affect its debt-sale plans is an extension the European Union
gave Spain on its budget-deficit targets, softening the goal for
this year to 6.3 percent of gross domestic product from 5.3
percent targeted in the budget.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  