-- Spain Bad Loans Rise in May as Weak Economy Spurs Defaults
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-07-18T15:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/spanish-bad-loans-rise-in-may-as-weak-economy-spurs-defaults.html
Spanish banks’ bad loans jumped to
an 18-year high in May, stoking concern that the costs of
covering defaults will further weaken their financial strength.  Bad debts as a percentage of total lending climbed to 8.95
percent from 8.72 percent the previous month as 3.1 billion
euros ($3.8 billion) of borrowing soured, according to data
published by the Bank of  Spain  today. Lending and deposits in
Spain’s banking system declined, the regulator said.  Spain is negotiating a bailout of as much as 100 billion
euros for its banks after souring real estate and  consumer
lending  forced Bankia group in May to seek 19 billion euros of
aid. Bad debts are set to mount as Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy ’s drive to cut state spending and raise taxes pitches the
country into what the  International Monetary Fund  predicts will
be two years of economic contraction.  “The economy is into negative territory and unemployment
is still going up so in that kind of environment you can only
expect non-performing loan formation to continue to tick up,”
Inigo Lecubarri, who helps manage about $300 million at Abaco
Financials Fund in London, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today.  Spanish residents’ deposits dropped by 5.75 percent in May
from a year earlier and slipped 0.55 percent from April, the
Bank of Spain said. Lending shrank 3.82 percent in May from the
same month in 2011 and 0.59 percent from April. Spain announced
plans to take over Bankia on May 9.  Concern among investors that more bad loans will come to
light as the economy weakens has helped push up financing costs
for Spain, where the  unemployment rate  is already nearing 25
percent. The yield on Spain’s 10-year bond was 6.91 percent at
4:57 p.m. in  Madrid , up from 6.77 percent yesterday.  The bad loans ratio is closing in on its highest level on
record of 9.15 percent reached in February 1994 in the wake of
the collapse of  Banco Espanol de Credito SA , a lender later
acquired by  Banco Santander SA. (SAN)  In separate data reported today,
the Ministry of Public Works said  home prices  in Spain fell 8.3
percent in the second quarter from the same period a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  