-- Scissor Sisters, Tate Tanks, King Rylance: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-07-18T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/springsteen-braves-mud-ursula-s-bikini-london-weekend.html
Mark Rylance , who played a limping
down-and-out in the award-winning play “ Jerusalem ,” reappears
this weekend as one of the stage’s best-known hunchbacks.  Rylance is power-hungry Richard III in Shakespeare’s
Globe’s summer blockbuster. The production has an all-male cast,
as in the Bard’s day, and historically correct costumes, music
and dancing. “Richard III” ends its run Oct. 13.  The actor will resurface later this year in a different
guise: as Olivia in “Twelfth Night,” which opens Sept. 22.  Information:  http://www.shakespearesglobe.com  or
+44-20-7401-9919.  The Table is a cafe near the Globe that serves modern
European dishes such as English rose veal paillard, asparagus,
scorzone black truffle. It’s owned by a group of architects.
Chef Shaun Alpine-Crabtree previously worked for London culinary
stars Bruno Loubet and Anthony Demetre. Information:
 http://thetablecafe.com/  or +44-20-7401-2760.  Another Shakespearean figure comes back to life this
weekend, in a heavily rejiggered version.  Nobel Prize winner Toni Morrison has re-imagined the
Desdemona of “Othello” and written words for her and her
African nanny, Barbary (Rokia Traore).  The two-hour piece with musical interludes may not be to
everyone’s liking: Our Paris critic found it platitudinous when
it was staged there last year.  Directed by  Peter Sellars  and set to original songs by
Malian-born Traore, “Desdemona” is at the Barbican Friday
night. Information:  http://www.barbican.org.uk  or
+44-20-7638-8891.  The Barbican is close to a destination restaurant for
Malaysian cuisine. Family-run Sedap keeps the mother and father
in the kitchen and the daughter out front serving customers.
It’s authentic and inexpensive. Information:
 http://www.sedap.co.uk/  or +44-20-7490-0200.  Saturday  Tate Modern missed a self-imposed deadline to finish its
215-million-pound ($336 million) new wing in time for the London
 Olympic Games .  The former power station does have something to show,
though: large subterranean tanks that once contained oil for
electricity generation. The Tanks -- the arenas’ fashionable new
sobriquet -- are Tate’s new film and performance spaces, and
they’ve opened for just 15 weeks before construction resumes.  There’s live human action in one tank, including final
performances (on Friday) of Belgian choreographer Anne Teresa De
Keersmaeker’s mesmeric “Fase,” danced to a repetitious Steve Reich riff. The next-door video-art tank currently features a
more opaque installation by Korean artist Sung Hwan Kim.  The Olympic-year tank activity runs through Oct. 28.
Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk  or +44-20-7887-8888.  Saturday Night  The Scissor Sisters, Noisettes, Staff Benda Billy and Hugh
Masekela all take part in the free BT River of Music event,
which bills itself as a curtain raiser to the Olympics on the
weekend before the games opening ceremony.  The festival features artists representing Olympic and
Paralympic nations. It spans six sites along the Thames, with an
Asia stage in Battersea Park,  Europe  stages at  Somerset House 
and  Trafalgar Square , Americas at the Tower of London, Oceania
at the Old Royal Naval College in Greenwich, and  Africa  at the
London Pleasure Gardens in the Docklands.  Information:  http://www.btriverofmusic.com/   Sunday  The Spitalfields International Food Festival, opening
Saturday, celebrates this East London area’s emergence as a home
to exciting bars and brasseries.  Spitalfields has attracted immigrants since the late 17th
century, when French Huguenots settled there. These days, it’s
known for culinary diversity, from the Indian restaurants of
Brick Lane to European venues such as Galvin Cafe a Vin.
Information:  http://www.alternativearts.co.uk/SFF2012 .  (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London   at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 