-- Squalid Times Square Was Perfect Set for ‘Vanya’: DVD
-- B y   P e t e r   R a i n e r
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/squalid-timesx-square-was-perfect-set-for-vanya-dvd.html
New Yorkers  can currently see fine,
radically different approaches to Anton Chekhov’s masterwork,
“Uncle Vanya.”  Downtown, Soho Rep is offering a chamber version in its
intimate theater. At  New York  City Center, the  Lincoln Center
Festival  has brought in a comparatively sumptuous staging
starring  Cate Blanchett .  For emotional impact, not to mention sheer audacity,
they’ll have to compete with “ Vanya on 42nd Street ,”  Louis
Malle ’s incomparable film from nearly two decades ago. It’s now
out on a restored DVD and Blu-Ray from Criterion.  Malle’s adaptation of stage director Andre Gregory’s
production takes place almost entirely within a single,
dilapidated section of the orchestra in what was, at the time,
the crumbling, abandoned New Amsterdam theater.  In its magisterial heyday, this theater housed the
“Ziegfeld Follies” and the New Amsterdam Roof Garden. Shortly
after Malle finished shooting,  Disney (DIS)  began restoring the
theater for its own productions.  Dumb Question  When “Vanya on 42nd Street” came out in 1994, it was
greeted in some quarters with that tired old refrain: “But is
it a movie?”  Whatever you care to call it, it’s a treasure.  When it comes to showcasing the expressivity of its actors,
there has rarely been a movie as “cinematic” as this.  Gregory, raised in America by Russian parents, dispenses
with the usual samovar-and-sunset approach and goes straight for
the play’s emotional essence. Malle’s camera is always where you
want it to be: on the faces of the extraordinary cast members,
all of whom perform in street clothes this comic tragedy of
bourgeois woe.  They include Wallace Shawn as the ineffably dyspeptic Vanya
and  Julianne Moore  as the beautiful young Yelena, who is married
to the blowhard writer Serybryakov (George Gaynes) at least
twice her age. Brooke Smith is Sonya, Vanya’s lovesick niece and
Serybryakov’s daughter. Larry Pine all but steals the film as
the cynical, boozy Astrov, the local doctor who has unwittingly
won Sonya’s heart while lusting after Yelena.  Pulverizing Immediacy  As I was recently reminded of while watching the Broadway
revival of “Death of a Salesman” with Philip Seymour Hoffman,
one of the things I miss when I go to the movies is the
pulverizing immediacy of a great live performance. “Vanya on
42nd Street” bridges that gap: It’s a movie with all the
intensity of live theater.  That intensity was hard won. As is his method, Gregory
rehearsed the actors on and off, beginning in 1989, over a
period of four years. The intention was never to mount the play
for an audience. Gregory wanted to do it for the love of it, and
because he imagined how good his cohort Shawn, with whom he
collaborated on the 1981 Malle-directed “My Dinner With
Andre,” would be in the title role.  Using a fresh, contemporary adaptation by playwright David
Mamet, the actors began with, as Shawn explains in a documentary
extra, the notion that they would “explore a piece of writing”
for just a few weeks.  After years of rehearsals, word of the production got
around and the cast was coaxed by Gregory into appearing before
a select audience of friends and colleagues, usually no more
than about 20 at a time. Attendees included Mikhail Baryshnikov,
Robert Altman,  Mike Nichols , (who saw it twice and cried each
time) and Susan Sontag.  Lynne Cohen, who plays the elderly Maman, speaks in the
documentary about how Gregory’s process “gently let this play
invade our souls.”  Moore’s Change  Moore, who at the time of the filming was just becoming
recognized in movies (“The Fugitive,” “Short Cuts”), talks
about how the experience changed her approach to everything. She
learned that “you can have an emotion on camera. I want the
surprise of feeling like it’s actually happening to me.”  Gregory explains his approach in the documentary.  “Chekhov is not about candelabras and costumes,” he says.
“It’s not even about relationships primarily and it’s certainly
not about plot.  “What Chekhov is about fundamentally is the nature of the
quality of passing your life -- what it feels like to be here as
we travel across the ocean of life.”  Smith tearfully recounts how, when the cast walked out of
the theater for the last time, Malle (who died the year after
the film was released), stopped everyone and said, “Let’s just
take a moment. This is gone.”  That’s all very Chekhovian, but the fortunate truth is,
with “Vanya on 42nd Street,” the experience is preserved
forever.  ( Peter Rainer  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Ryan Sutton  on restaurants and  James
Pressley  on books.  To contact the writer of this column:
Peter Rainer at  Fi1L2E@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 Mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  