-- European Stocks Advance as Banks Beat Analyst Estimates
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-07-18T16:06:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/stock-futures-in-europe-rise-before-bernanke-testimony.html
European stocks  advanced for the
third time in four days after lenders including  Credit Suisse
Group AG (CSGN)  reported profits that beat estimates, while minutes
showed the  Bank of England  may reconsider the case for an
interest-rate cut.  Credit Suisse, the  second-biggest  Swiss bank, jumped 4.5
percent after announcing a higher cost cutting-target and
boosting capital.  Bankia SA (BKIA)  surged 14 percent after Economy
Minister Luis de Guindos said Spain will block banks selling
preferred stocks to retail investors.  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  was among
the main gainers on a measure of technology stocks.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  added 1.1 percent to 258.93 at
the close of trade. Shares have climbed 11 percent from this
year’s low on June 4 as the  European Central Bank  and People’s
Bank of China cut their benchmark  interest rates  and euro-area
leaders eased repayment rules for Spanish banks.  “We have a lot of monetary stimulus coming from others
like the ECB and the Bank of England and even if the Fed doesn’t
join in with QE3, the feeling is still that QE3 could be
forthcoming, should the economy weaken,”  Edmund Shing , an
equity strategist at  Barclays Capital , said, referring to a
potential third round of quantitative easing by the  Federal
Reserve . “The hope is that the economy will improve and if that
doesn’t happen there will be monetary stimulus.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  delivered the second part of
his semi-annual testimony on the economy and monetary policy to
the House Financial Services Committee today. Bernanke yesterday
outlined options to stimulate the U.S. economy should it fail to
spur more jobs growth.  Beige Book  The Fed will release its Beige Book survey of business
conditions in 12 U.S. districts today, two weeks before the
 Federal Open Market Committee  meets to set monetary policy. The
 U.S. economy  was described as growing at a “moderate pace”
pace in the Fed’s June Beige Book survey.  Beginning construction of U.S. homes rose more than
forecast in June to the fastest rate in almost four years,
indicating a brighter outlook for the residential real estate
market.  Housing starts  rose 6.9 percent last month to a 760,000
annual pace after a revised 711,000 rate in May that was faster
than initially estimated, the Commerce Department reported today
in Washington. The median forecast of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a 745,000 rate. Building permits fell,
reflecting a drop in applications for apartment construction.  U.K. Rates  In the U.K., minutes from the Bank of England’s recent July
Monetary Policy meeting showed policy makers voted 7-2 to
increase stimulus and said they may reconsider the case for an
interest-rate cut after assessing the impact of new lending and
liquidity measures on the economy.  U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  outlined
plans to encourage as much as 51 billion pounds ($80 billion) of
spending on infrastructure and exports in the latest effort pull
the economy out of recession.  The Treasury will operate a 40 billion-pound loan-guarantee
program to underwrite a share of projects that face financing
difficulties and are ready to begin in the next 12 months. It
will also provide 6 billion pounds in loans to 30 public-private
partnership projects and a further 5 billion pounds of export
guarantees for infrastructure and manufacturing companies.  U.K. unemployment fell to a nine-month low in the quarter
through May as the London Olympics helped to create jobs,
underlining the resilience of the labor market in the face of a
recession and Europe’s debt crisis. Unemployment based on
International Labour Organization methods fell to 8.1 percent of
the workforce from 8.2 percent in the period through April, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in London.  Indexes Gain  National benchmark indexes rose in all western European
markets except Finland and Iceland. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 gained 1
percent. France’s CAC 40 climbed 1.8 percent and Germany’s DAX
advanced 1.6 percent.  Credit Suisse advanced 4.5 percent to 17.91 Swiss francs.
The bank announced measures to cut costs and boost capital by
8.7 billion francs ($8.9 billion) after a central bank report
last month called for an increase in equity. The cost savings
target was increased to 3 billion francs from 2 billion francs,
the bank said.  Second-quarter net income rose to 788 million francs from
768 million a year earlier, the Zurich-based bank said.  Bankia,  the part government-controlled  Spanish lender,
jumped 14 percent to 60.5 euro cents, reversing an earlier
decline of as much as 9.3 percent. Spain will introduce
legislation to prevent banks miss-selling preferred stock to
retail investors after savers lost money on the securities.  “What we are going to do is modify the legislation to
prevent this happening again,” De Guindos said during a debate
in parliament today. “Unfortunately, the changes won’t have a
retroactive effect.”  ASML Advances  ASML paced gains among  European technology companies ,
rising 6.8 percent to 44.23 euros, as Chief Executive Officer
Eric Meurice said on a conference call that he expects a
“steady increase in profitability,” even as the producer of
machines for chipmakers joined Applied Materials Inc. and  Intel
Corp . in predicted a weaker chip market.  Second-half net sales will be in a range of 2.2 billion
euros ($2.7 billion) to 2.4 billion euros, the Veldhoven,
Netherlands-based company said today. That compared with an
average 2.45 billion-euro estimate of analysts in a Bloomberg
survey and the 2.67 billion-euro revenue reported a year
earlier. Second-quarter net bookings topped estimates.  Nordea Advances  Nordea (NDA)  rose 2.4 percent to 62.05 kronor after saying
second-quarter profit jumped 17 percent as an increase in
lending income outweighed higher loan losses. Net income rose to
820 million euros from 698 million euros a year earlier, the
Stockholm-based lender said in a statement. That beat the 722
million-euro average estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Ericsson AB rose 2.2 percent to 60.20 kronor, reversing an
earlier decline of as much as 5.1 percent. The biggest maker of
mobile network equipment reported second-quarter profit that
missed analysts’ estimates as wireless carriers curbed spending
to cope with a slowing global economy. Net income fell 64
percent to 1.11 billion kronor ($158 million), Stockholm-based
 Ericsson (ERICB)  said today in a statement. Analysts had predicted 1.64
billion kronor, according to the average of estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Puma SE (PUM)  plunged 4.8 percent to 214.65 euros after Europe’s
second-largest sporting-goods maker cut its forecasts for sales
and profit growth in 2012 as business slowed in the first half
of the year. Net income will fall “significantly” from last
year’s 230.1 million euros because of a 100 million-euro charge
for speeding up and expanding the scope of the company’
transformation program, Puma said in a statement today.  Waertsila Oyj (WRT1V) , the world’s biggest maker of ship motors and
power plants, fell 8.1 percent to 24.82 euros. The company said
customers postponed deliveries during the second quarter amid a
shaky global economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  