-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the Beige Book.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta  prepared the latest
report. Information was collected before July 9.  Boston: “Economic activity in the First District continues
to expand at a moderate pace. Residential real estate sales
increased relative to last year and commercial construction
activity continues to gain momentum. Sales in the retail sector
remain about flat, while the manufacturing and business services
sectors continue slow growth. Contacts report that their costs
and prices are increasing very moderately, if at all. Firms are
generally not laying off workers, but most are also not engaged
in substantial hiring. Many contacts cite uncertainty regarding
future macroeconomic conditions as impinging on their outlook,
and some contacts cite this as a reason for postponing
investment or other decisions.”  New York : “Growth in the Second District’s economy has
slowed since the last report, though labor market conditions
have continued to improve. Price pressures have receded further
in both manufacturing and other industry sectors, and retail
prices have been stable. Non-manufacturing contacts generally
report that conditions have held steady in recent weeks, while
manufacturers report flat to weaker activity. Retailers
generally report weaker results for May and June, but auto
dealers indicate that sales activity was fairly robust; tourism
activity has continued to be steady and strong. Home sales
markets have shown signs of improvement, while rental markets
have remained firm; however, commercial real estate markets have
slowed modestly. Finally, bankers report a leveling off in loan
demand, no change in credit standards, and further declines in
delinquency rates on commercial loans and mortgages.”  Philadelphia: “Overall, business activity in the Third
District has continued to improve since the previous  Beige Book ,
although results were mixed. Manufacturing activity slowed
somewhat. Retail sales and auto sales continued to increase, but
at paces that varied across sectors and states. Third District
banks have reported steady growth in lending and stronger credit
quality since the last Beige Book. Demand for new home
construction held steady, and brokers report improving sales of
existing homes. Commercial real estate contacts report little
change in current demand, while on average service-sector firms
report modest continued growth. Price pressures have eased
further in many sectors since the last Beige Book.”  Cleveland : “Economic activity in the Fourth District
continued to expand since our last report, but at a slower pace.
On balance, manufacturers reported a slight rise in production.
New- home construction  ticked down, while nonresidential builders
saw stronger inquiries. Retailers and auto dealers noted little
change in sales during May. Wet shale gas drilling and
production increased, though the demand for coal has slowed.
Freight transport volume moved lower. And there was some easing
in the demand for business credit.
Little hiring was reported across industry sectors. Staffing-
firm representatives indicated that the largest numbers of  job
openings  were found in healthcare and information technology.
Wage pressures are contained.”  Richmond: “Fifth District contacts provided mixed reports
on economic activity since our last assessment. Retailers
reported strengthening in consumer spending over the last month,
and non-retail firms cited increased activity, despite end-of-
June power outages caused by severe storms. Bookings remained
solid according to tourism contacts, even as vacationers
continued to hunt for bargains. Residential real estate was
described as slightly improved overall, although many areas
continued to experience weakness. Additionally, contacts at
District ports noted some improvement in both import and export
volumes in recent months. In contrast, manufacturers reported a
marked weakening in orders and shipments in June, following
strengthening earlier this year. Employment agencies cited a
slight slowdown in demand for workers, with the notable
exception of high-skill occupations.”  Atlanta: “The outlook among most firms remained cautiously
optimistic, although the majority of contacts acknowledged that
risks were weighted to the downside.
Retailers noted that sales improved slightly, but cautioned that
consumers appeared to be conservative in their purchases. Auto
dealerships reported continued strong sales. The hospitality
sector continued to experience steady growth as occupancy and
room rates continued to rise. Most brokers and homebuilders
reported modest increases in sales and prices from very low
levels of activity. Manufacturing firms indicated that
production continued to expand, but at a much more moderate pace
than earlier in the year. Bank lending activity increased
slightly for residential real estate, while auto loan activity
remained robust. Employment growth for the District was subdued
and employers remained cautious about future hiring. Lower
energy prices have eased pricing pressures for many firms and
wage pressures remained modest.”  Chicago: “Economic activity in the Seventh District
continued to expand at a moderate pace in June and early July,
although once again the pace of growth slowed from the previous
reporting period. Growth in  consumer spending  further moderated,
while business spending increased at a steady pace.
Manufacturing production increased at a slower pace, and
construction activity continued to improve. Credit conditions
improved slightly on balance. Commodity prices moved lower, and
wage increases remained moderate. The prospects for the
District’s corn and soybean crops deteriorated, and crop prices
moved higher.”  St. Louis : “The economy of the Eighth District has
continued to expand at a modest pace since the previous survey.
Residential real estate market conditions have continued to
improve moderately. Similarly, commercial real estate market
conditions have also improved. Recent reports of planned
activity from manufacturing firms have been positive. However,
reports from services contacts have been mixed. Overall lending
at a sample of small and mid-sized District banks increased
slightly from mid-March to mid-June.”  Minneapolis: “The Ninth District economy grew moderately
since the last report. Increased activity was noted in consumer
spending, tourism, professional services, construction, real
estate, and agriculture. Growth was also positive, but slightly
slower than in the previous reporting period, in the
manufacturing, energy, and mining sectors. Some tightening was
noted in labor markets, and wage increases were moderate. Price
increases were modest, and some decreases were noted.”  Kansas City : “The Tenth District economy expanded
moderately in June. Consumer spending was stronger than expected
due to stronger automobile sales and a solid start to summer
tourism. Commercial and residential real estate prices rose with
stronger sales, and District contacts were optimistic regarding
future sales and construction activity. Led by mortgage loan
activity, some District banks reported improvements in loan
demand and quality. District manufacturing activity edged up and
additional gains in production, orders, and  capital spending 
were expected in the coming months. Expanding drought conditions
hindered crop development and drove crop prices higher. District
oil and natural gas drilling activity held at peak levels but
was expected to ease with lower global demand. The price of raw
materials for manufacturing rose at a slower pace compared to
previous surveys and finished goods prices generally held
steady. Wage pressures were subdued except for positions in
transportation, high-tech and energy industries.”  Dallas : “The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate
pace over the past six weeks. Overall manufacturing activity
continued to expand. Demand for business services remained
solid, and transportation services activity increased.
Respondents said retail sales grew at a somewhat slower pace
than the last report, and automobile sales held steady. The
housing sector continued to improve, and commercial real estate
leasing activity held steady. Financial firms noted mixed loan
demand. Overall energy activity remained strong, although gas-
directed drilling continued to decline. Agricultural conditions
deteriorated slightly. Employment levels were steady to slightly
higher, and prices were mostly unchanged. Wage pressures
remained minimal. Outlooks across industries were generally
positive, but some respondents expressed concern about European
debt issues, U.S. political uncertainty, and healthcare costs.”  San Francisco : “Twelfth District economic activity
expanded at a modest pace during the reporting period of June
through the beginning of July. Upward price pressures eased
somewhat and remained quite contained overall, and upward wage
pressures were limited. Sales of retail items rose a bit, and
demand grew for most business and consumer services. District
manufacturing activity increased slightly on balance. Demand
continued to expand for agricultural producers, while activity
was largely unchanged for providers of energy resources. Sales
and construction activity edged up in District housing markets,
and demand strengthened slightly for commercial real estate.
Contacts from financial institutions reported a small increase
in overall loan demand and slight improvements in  credit quality 
and availability.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  