-- Sushi Izakaya’s $4 Skewers Revive Blue Ribbon: Review
-- B y   R y a n   S u t t o n
-- 2012-07-18T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/sushi-izakaya-s-4-skewers-revive-blue-ribbon-review.html
Until Sushi Izakaya opened at the
Thompson LES in April, it seemed that the growing Blue Ribbon
empire was becoming a diluted brand.  I recall mediocre sushi at Blue Ribbon Columbus Circle,
lousy French bread pizza at Brooklyn Bowl and bland rock shrimp
at a Park Slope outpost.  Once a small Soho spot that served fine food to cooks and
waiters in the after hours, Blue Ribbon has turned into a chain
of 10 bars, restaurants or bakeries in New York and  Las Vegas ,
with a greatest hits menu of “Blue Ribbon Classics” at a dozen
Renaissance Hotels in  North America .  That’s good news for brothers Bruce and Eric Bromberg, who
back the franchise.  But one wonders how many post-shift waiters are splurging
for $30 sweetbreads at the Soho flagship when similar dishes are
available at other late-night places for less.  One of those cheaper, better, more ambitious venues is  Blue
Ribbon Sushi Izakaya .  The popcorn shrimp are a skip here, too, and the sushi’s
not very good. But just about everything else I tried on the
100-item-plus menu is exactly what it should be: rich, salty and
strongly-flavored.  These are small plates meant to be consumed with Blue
Ribbon’s own cold, creamy sake.  Intense Garlic  Three-bite skewers come out in three minutes flat. This is
for when you need to kill hunger fast. Beefy medium-rare short
ribs get a dollop of intense garlic puree ($4).  Tiny shrimp, anointed with a sharp tomatillo ponzu,
somehow retain their delicate sea-worthiness.  Chicken-thigh kebabs ($4) pack a concentrated poultry punch
and a sting of scallion. Pork belly has enough soft, bacony meat
to balance silky, succulent fat.  Eat these with your hands, at the bar, where  service  is
more trained and efficient than in the clubby, dimly lit dining
room.  The meat section of the menu is heavy on offal: Chicken
liver, chicken feet, tongue, tripe and brontosaurus-size slabs
of bone marrow. The latter are umami bombs of gelatinous
pleasure topped with savory bonito flakes and finished,
improbably, with excellent teriyaki sauce ($18).  Rockin’ Rice  Beef tongue? Sushi Izakaya firms up the spongy meat and
finishes it with a heady black truffle sugo. This piece of
perfection costs just $15.  Rice rocks the house. One fine version comes with tongue
and sweetbreads ($28). More advanced gourmands will order the
bacon and liver version for bites of smoke and iron ($19).  Even better is squid ink rice ($29), anointed with what
looks like a giant mess of orange whipped cream. It’s custardy
sea urchin.  Those looking for G-rated fare need not apply.  Raw horse mackerel is a case-in-point. A capable chef
cross-hatches the silvery skin; all the better to soak up the
ponzu sauce with. The taste? Powerfully, headily oily.  Yes, Blue Ribbon’s industrial-grade sushi, with un-sauced
fish and cold rice, is most definitely a pass. But the expert
sashimi -- mackerel and otherwise -- is quite good.  Sunomono, which in this case means cucumber-wrapped fish,
turns expensive king crab into a California-roll like snooze.
Cost: $22 for a few bites.  Better is the eel version, as the cool cuke keeps the
intense gelatins of the sea snake in check.  Miso gives baked clams an extra slick of richness. It makes
silky black cod Nobu-worthy and even improves an intensely
lobstery lobster.  Miso also appears in a rich-as-cream dipping sauce for the
20-ounce rib-steak, a fine steak with a roast-beef flavor ($42).
Sweet onion tempura accompanies the cut; that’s your dessert.
Though green tea ice cream, as dense as kulfi, isn’t a bad
choice either.  Perhaps I’ll give the other Blue Ribbons a shot again.  Rating: **  The Bloomberg Questions  Price: Many dishes under $20; some under $10.  Sound Level: Around 75 decibels, about average.  Date Place: At the bar, where you can knock knees.  Inside Tip: Walk-ins only for four or fewer but there’s
rarely a wait.  Special Feature: If you like Blue Ribbon’s famous matzo-
crusted fried chicken (I don’t); you can get that here too.  Back on My Own Dime: Especially for skewers.  Blue Ribbon Sushi Izakaya is at 187 Orchard St.
Information: +1-212-460-5300;
 http://www.blueribbonrestaurants.com .  (Ryan Sutton writes about  New York  City restaurants for
Muse, the arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  James Pressley  on books and  Peter
Rainer  on movies.  To contact the writer of this column:
Ryan Sutton in New York at  rsutton1@bloomberg.net  or
qualityrye on  http://twitter.com/qualityrye   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 