-- Swiss Regulator Questions UBS Ability to Comply With Dodd-Frank
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l
-- 2012-07-18T21:24:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/swiss-regulator-questions-ubs-ability-to-comply-with-dodd-frank.html
Registration of  UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s swap businesses with the U.S. Commodity
Futures Trading Commission may be irreconcilable with Swiss
practices, the Swiss government’s financial regulator said in a
letter to CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler .  The  Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority  said it
has “serious doubts” about the extraterritorial effects of
registration required under the Dodd-Frank Act in a letter dated
July 5 and received by the CFTC on July 16. Reporting
requirements proposed by the CFTC may threaten Swiss privacy and
data protections, the letter said.  The Swiss regulator, known as Finma, is “particularly
concerned” about margin rules for trades that are not checked
by a third party, according to the letter.  “If such margin requirements are applied to a Swiss-based
entity, this may duplicate the requirements and may possibly
conflict with international and domestic capital adequacy
rules,” Patrick Raaflaub, Finma’s chief executive officer, and
Mark Branson, head of its banks division, said in the letter.  Banks that deal in swaps may be required to register with
the CFTC in September. Registration could be “particularly
challenging” for UBS, Switzerland’s largest bank, which carries
out swaps through a branch network rather than foreign
affiliates, according to the letter.  UBS is preparing to move its derivatives business to a
separate legal entity, UBS Limited London. The process will
probably take “several years,” the letter said.  Raaflaub and Branson said they are confident the CFTC and
Finma can find a suitable alternative to the rules, and
suggested the registration of a U.S.-based information transfer
agent as a possible solution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Fidel in  Washington  at 
 efidel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  