-- Syria’s ‘Rapidly Spinning Out of Control,’ Panetta Says
-- B y   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-07-18T14:18:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/syria-s-rapidly-spinning-out-of-control-panetta-says-1-.html
The killing of Syria’s defense
minister and President Bashar al-Assad’s brother-in-law
indicates the government may not be able to control the outcome
of escalating warfare, U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  said.  Assad has ignored repeated calls by the U.S. and its allies
to step down and make way for a peaceful transition of power,
Panetta said today in a news conference at the Pentagon after
meeting with U.K. Secretary of State for Defense Philip Hammond.  “By ignoring those appeals by the international community
the violence there has only gotten worse and the loss of life
has only increased, which tells us that this is a situation
that’s rapidly spinning out of control,” Panetta said of
fighting that has escalated in the capital, Damascus.  A bomb attack against Syria’s national security
headquarters killed Defense Minister Dawoud Rajhah and Assad’s
brother-in-law Major General Assef Shawkat, core members of the
military establishment battling insurgents.  Panetta and Hammond also said the Assad regime was
responsible for ensuring the safety of  Syria ’s chemical weapons.  “It is something that we made very clear to them -- that
they’ve a responsibility to safeguard their chemical sites, and
we’ll hold them responsible should anything happen to those
sites,” Panetta said.  The rising violence indicates that the Syrian opposition is
“emboldened” and has “access increasingly to weaponry,”
Hammond said at the news conference.  Both the Syrian regime and the opposition need to
“understand that the international community is determined to
see an orderly and peaceful transition of power, not least
because of the presence of chemical weapons stocks in the
country, which we don’t want to see a situation that’s out of
control,” Hammond said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  