-- U.K. Lawmakers Attack Lack of Transparency on Olympic Spending
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-18T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-k-lawmakers-attack-lack-of-transparency-on-olympic-spending.html
The U.K. government has frustrated
attempts to examine taxpayer funding for the  London   Olympic
Games , a cross-party panel of lawmakers said today.  The Department of Culture, Media and Sport “would win no
medals for transparency,” Public Accounts Committee Chairwoman
 Margaret Hodge  said as the panel published a report that also
questions the credibility of claims about the sporting legacy of
the games.  “Legitimate monitoring of implementation has been an
unnecessarily frustrating process, characterized by a resistance
to giving us clear and consistent information and a readiness to
depart from proper ways of conducting public business,” Hodge,
an opposition  Labour Party  lawmaker, said in an e-mailed
statement.  “The department has no intention of producing a single
auditable account for the games, drawing together both the costs
within the public-sector funding package of 9.3 billion pounds
($14.5 billion) and those outside,” she added. “Such an
analysis must be produced.”  An over-arching audit could include the 766 million-pound
cost of buying the land on which the Olympic Park is built, 57
million pounds for the government’s Olympic executive and money
spent on transport infrastructure that might have been used for
other transport projects if it wasn’t for the games, the report
said.  The promotion of participation in sport, which formed part
of the London Olympic bid in 2005, has also only encouraged an
additional 109,000 people to get involved in return for 450
million pounds spent, which “represents poor value for money,”
the report said.  ‘Chaos’  “As the world’s eyes turn to London, we wish every success
to all the many organizations involved in making the games
happen,” Hodge said. “But the chaos which has emerged over the
security contract was predictable and undermines confidence in
those responsible for managing the games.”  Lawmakers on the House of Commons Home Affairs Committee
said this week they have no confidence in the ability of
 G4S Plc (GFS)  after the security company failed to supply the staff it
promised to protect games venues and accommodation, forcing the
government to deploy thousands more soldiers and police.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  