-- U.K. Banks Scrap Black-Tie Dinner as Libor Probe Intensifies
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   J o n   M e n o n
-- 2012-07-18T15:33:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-k-bankers-scrap-black-tie-dinner-as-libor-probe-intensifies.html
The British Bankers’ Association,
the lobby group that oversees the London interbank offered rate,
postponed tonight’s annual dinner for the first time following
 Barclays (BARC)  Plc’s record fine for rigging the benchmark.  “In the current circumstances it would be wrong to
proceed,”  Brian Mairs , a BBA spokesman, said by telephone
today. “Our industry needs to think long and hard about its
collective behavior and now is not the time for such an event to
take place. We regret the short notice.”  The lobby group said it had invited more than 300 guests to
the black-tie event at London’s Mansion House. Financial
Services Authority Chairman  Adair Turner  was slated to be the
main speaker, with David Wootton, the Lord Mayor of London, set
to attend as well. The BBA described the event as “always
popular and very well attended” in its invitation.  Barclays, Britain’s second-biggest bank by assets, sparked
a political outcry after it was fined about $451 million by the
FSA, the U.S. Justice Department and the U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission on June 27 for manipulating Libor from 2005
to 2009. U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said
yesterday that Libor was “structurally flawed” and warranted a
“substantial response” from the central bank.  BBA Resignation  The BBA canceled its summer party earlier this month.
BBA Chief Executive Officer  Angela Knight , who said in April she
would step down, is being replaced by Anthony Browne, a former
government-relations executive at Morgan Stanley, in September.
BBA Chairman Marcus Agius, who is also planning to resign as
chairman of Barclays, stepped down this month.  At least a dozen banks are being probed by regulators
worldwide for potentially rigging the benchmark rate for at
least $500 trillion of securities. Citigroup Inc.,  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc , UBS AG, ICAP Plc,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) 
and Deutsche Bank AG are among firms regulators are probing.  Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  told British
lawmakers on July 9 that the Libor investigation unveiled a
“cesspit” in the City of London. A cross-party parliamentary
inquiry led by  Andrew Tyrie  is examining Libor.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the BBA in London. Lenders are asked how much it
would cost them to borrow from one another for 15 periods, from
overnight to one year, in different currencies.  A spokesman for the Mansion House wasn’t immediately
available to comment. The building is the official residence of
the  Lord Mayor , who presides over the City of London
Corporation, the U.K. capital’s main financial district.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  