-- U.K. Trade Minister Green Challenged Over Time Running HSBC
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-07-18T15:26:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-k-trade-minister-green-challenged-over-his-time-running-hsbc.html
U.K. Trade Minister  Stephen Green 
was challenged to answer questions about his time at the top of
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , after the bank apologized for opening its
U.S. affiliate to Mexican drug money.  Green, appointed to the House of Lords when Prime Minister
 David Cameron  made him trade minister in 2011, was chief
executive officer of the London-based  bank from 2003 to 2006
and then its chairman until 2010. He is also an ordained priest
in the Church of England and author of “Good Value: Reflections
on Money, Morality and an Uncertain World.”  Executives from the bank yesterday apologized to a Senate
subcommittee that told them that over the last decade they’d
offered “a gateway for terrorists to gain access to U.S.
dollars and the U.S. financial system.” Compliance chief David
Bagley announced his resignation during the hearing.  “The U.S. Senate sub-committee’s report, which suggests
that HSBC allowed  money laundering  by drug cartels and possibly
even terrorists, is so serious that the bank’s head of
compliance has already resigned,”  Chris Leslie , a Treasury
spokesman for the opposition Labour Party, said in an e-mailed
statement. He said Green “now has serious questions to answer
about what he knew and when.”  The Department for Business, where Green is a minister,
said it had no immediate comment.  Green had been floated as a possible successor to  Mervyn King , who is due to retire as governor of the Bank of England
next year. Bookmaker Paddy Power was offering odds of 6-1,
meaning a one-pound ($1.56) wager would win six pounds if Green
got the job. That ranked him fifth favourite, ahead of Bank of
Canada Governor  Mark Carney . The scandal at HSBC may dent his
chances.  HSBC has said that it’s cooperating with investigations by
the U.S.  Justice Department  and other agencies into possible
Iran sanctions violations. It’s also cooperating in unrelated
probes by the Justice Department and the Internal Revenue
Service into whether it helped Americans evade taxes through
HSBC India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  