-- U.K. Wants Stability at G4S, Not Resignations, Minister Says
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-07-18T12:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-k-wants-stability-at-g4s-not-resignations-minister-says-1-.html
U.K. Olympics Minister Hugh Robertson said he wants “stability” at  G4S Plc (GFS)  rather than
“resignations and chaos” as the company struggles to provide
enough security guards for the London  Olympic Games .  Asked if G4S Chief Executive Office Nick Buckles should
resign, Robertson told reporters in London today that the
company is still a key partner and he is confident it will
deliver on its obligations.  “I want stability at that firm, I don’t want resignations
and chaos,” Robertson said. “At the moment the important thing
is we deliver a safe and secure games and G4S is an important
partner in that. I have absolute confidence the company will
deliver.”  Lawmakers on the House of Commons Home Affairs Committee
said yesterday that they have no confidence in the company after
Buckles agreed that the staffing shortfall that forced the
government to deploy thousands more soldiers and police was a
“humiliating shambles.” The company’s performance was
“unacceptable, incompetent and amateurish,” committee chairman
Keith Vaz told Buckles.  G4S’s shares rose after four days of declines. Shares of
the Crawley, England-based company rose 3.25 percent to 247.80
as of 12:53 p.m. in  London  after dropping by as much as 17.9
percent from July 11 to a low of 238.80 on July 17.  Robertson said government lawyers are working on activating
all of the penalty clauses in the G4S contracts, including the
57 million-pound management fee, which Ian Horseman-Sewell,
G4S’s global events specialist, said the company expects to
retain.  “All the penalty clauses in the contract will be
activated,” Robertson said. “What happens to Mr. Buckles
afterwards is a matter for others in the post-games period. What
matters now is that he and his company concentrate on delivering
a safe and secure Olympics.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  