-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT--CHICAGO  Summary. Economic activity in the Seventh District continued to
expand at a moderate pace in June and early July, although once
again the pace of growth slowed from the previous reporting
period. Growth in  consumer spending  further moderated, while
business spending increased at a steady pace. Manufacturing
production increased at a slower pace, and construction activity
continued to improve. Credit conditions improved slightly on
balance. Commodity prices moved lower, and wage increases
remained moderate. The prospects for the District’s corn and
soybean crops deteriorated, and crop prices moved higher.  Consumer spending. The pace of growth in consumer spending
further moderated in June and early July. Retailers cited lower
 consumer confidence , a weaker customer response to promotions,
and extreme summer heat as the main contributors to the lower
sales pace. However, some exceptions were noted. Demand for
 luxury goods  remained stronger by comparison, and sales of
clothing, furniture, and home furnishings improved. In addition,
the hot weather sparked sales of swimming pools, fans, and air
conditioning units. Auto sales also improved, driven in large
part by fleet sales and an increase in manufacturers’ incentives
on new fuel efficient vehicles. Inventory levels were little
changed, but some auto dealers indicated that they were
adjusting their inventory mix to include more fuel efficient
vehicles in order to meet increased demand.  Business spending. Business spending continued to increase at a
steady pace in June and early July. Inventories were generally
reported to be at comfortable levels, and most contacts
indicated that  capital expenditures  were proceeding as planned.
Auto dealers reported facility upgrades and a number of
manufacturers indicated they were purchasing new equipment. That
said, many contacts had become more cautious about future
spending decisions, pointing to the heightened uncertainty
surrounding the federal fiscal environment and the upcoming
November elections. Labor market conditions were little changed
on balance. Part-time hiring increased on par with seasonal
norms in retail trade, although permanent workforces decreased
slightly. Manufacturers reported only moderate gains in
employment, but several did note increasing the hours of their
existing workforce. A staffing firm reported weaker demand from
the manufacturing, transportation, and business services
industries but an increase in the growth rate of billable hours
in the construction and financial services industries.  Construction/real estate. Construction continued to increase in
June and early July. Multi-family residential construction
remained an area of strength, particularly apartments, but
single-family construction also increased. Residential real
estate conditions continued to improve, with  home prices  and
rents both edging up. A contact noted a rise in short sales as a
side effect of lenders increasingly looking to avoid the still
drawn out foreclosure process. Demand for nonresidential
construction also rose. Contacts reported several new hotel and
office projects as well as a pick-up in warehousing, industrial,
and infrastructure building activity. Commercial real estate
conditions were little changed overall. Vacancy rates remained
elevated for retail and office properties. Contacts expected
that it would take a while for the pace of absorption to pick up
significantly despite an increase in capital available for the
purchase of commercial properties.  Manufacturing. Manufacturing production increased at a slower
pace in June and early July. The auto sector remained a source
of strength. Several auto suppliers noted an increase in
research and development activity, as automakers were shifting
responsibility for new product design and development away from
their in-house operations. Outside of the  auto industry ,
conditions were mixed. Capacity utilization in the  steel
industry  edged lower; and while metals manufacturers indicated
that orders continued to increase, they also noted that growth
had softened some from the robust pace earlier in the year.
Exports to  Canada  and  Mexico  continued to increase, but
exporters noted a decline in demand from Europe and  China .
Demand for heavy equipment was steady, but a few contacts noted
that it may soon be slowing. While freight traffic continued to
be strong, the demand for heavy trucks was expected to be flat
into next year in advance of the next round of changes in
emissions standards. The lower price of natural gas was noted to
have slowed activity in the industry, as natural gas demand
lagged available supply. Contacts indicated that orders from the
defense industry further weakened in anticipation of additional
defense spending cuts in the coming fiscal year.  Banking/finance. Credit conditions improved slightly on balance
from the previous reporting period. Demand for longer term
financing continued to increase. Credit spreads edged up, but
market interest rates declined so that net corporate funding
costs were essentially flat. There was steady growth in
refinancing and lending for capital replacement, but limited
loan demand for other purposes. Middle market firms were the
primary source of loan growth. Larger firms were said to have
been more significantly impacted by the weakening European
economy and have scaled back their borrowing accordingly.
Banking contacts also noted that uncertainty over the effects of
potential fiscal policy actions on both demand and costs was
reducing their customers’ demand for credit. In contrast,
consumer loan demand increased moderately, particularly for auto
loans and mortgage refinancing.  Prices/costs. Cost pressures decreased in June and early July.
Energy prices were noticeably lower. Other commodity prices also
decreased, with contacts pointing to steel and lumber as
examples. Lead times for some specialty metals remained
extended, however. Wholesale price pressures eased, particularly
for clothing. Wage pressures continued to be moderate.
Manufacturing contacts reiterated having difficulty filling open
positions for high-skill trades.  Agriculture. Extreme heat and drought conditions spread across
most of the District, stressing both crops and livestock.
Forecasts made in June called for possibly record crops of corn
and soybeans; now it appears the District’s harvest will likely
be below average, with little prospect for improvement and
plenty of downside risk. The corn crop is in the most danger of
further damage, as plants entered a critical stage of
development with insufficient moisture. Corn and soybean prices
moved sharply higher, and wheat prices also rose. Hog prices
were higher, cattle prices were little changed, and milk prices
moved lower. With higher costs and the outlook for a decline in
revenue, insurance coverage may provide an important safeguard
for many farmers this year. Insurance coverage is widespread for
corn and soybeans, but is less prevalent for some other
products. Furthermore, several years of higher-than-usual farm
income have left many operations in a better position to absorb
losses this year. 