-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary. Reports from Sixth District business contacts indicated
that economic activity expanded at a modest pace in June and
early July. The outlook among most firms remained cautiously
optimistic, although the majority of contacts acknowledged that
risks were weighted to the downside.  Retailers noted that sales improved slightly, but cautioned that
consumers appeared to be conservative in their purchases. Auto
dealerships reported continued strong sales. The hospitality
sector continued to experience steady growth as occupancy and
room rates continued to rise. Most brokers and homebuilders
reported modest increases in sales and prices from very low
levels of activity, while contractors stated that the apartment
sector remained strong. Manufacturing firms indicated that
production continued to expand, but at a much more moderate pace
than earlier in the year. Bank lending activity increased
slightly for residential real estate, while auto loan activity
remained robust. Employment growth for the District was subdued
and employers remained cautious about future hiring. Lower
energy prices have eased pricing pressures for many firms and
wage pressures remained modest.  Consumer Spending  and Tourism. District retail sales activity
improved slightly in June and early July, but merchants reported
that consumers remained very conservative. Several discount
retailers and auto dealers signaled strong sales, while most
department stores conveyed more modest activity. Restaurant and
food service contacts reported that demand had softened a bit,
but sales at higher-end establishments remained strong.  Tourism activity and business travel remained strong and the
outlook among contacts was positive for the rest of the year.
Occupancy and room rates were up in many parts of the District.
Recent reports on convention bookings and theme park attendance
were also solid. Concerns shared earlier in the year regarding
rising fuel costs and the potential impact on travel and
spending had abated. However, concerns were shared about the
potential impact of economic and financial stress abroad and the
effect that would have on international travel, especially to
Florida. There continued to be a drop off in cruise line
bookings compared with earlier in the year.  Real Estate and Construction. District residential brokers
indicated that home sales were flat to slightly up compared with
year-ago levels. Reports indicated strong sales at the middle
price points, while several brokers noted that declining
inventories of foreclosed homes were limiting investor-driven
sales. Brokers also reported that the decline in inventories has
helped stabilize  home prices  in many areas. Most brokers
reported that home prices were flat to slightly up compared with
a year earlier. However, contacts continued to note some
downward pressure on home prices resulting from low purchase
offers and appraisals that were coming in well-below asking and
offering prices. The sales outlook among brokers remained
positive with most anticipating continued modest year-over-year
home sales gains.  District homebuilders reported that new home sales and
construction rose modestly compared with year-ago levels. The
majority indicated that new home inventories declined further on
a monthly and an annual basis. Most builders reported that new
home prices were flat to slightly up compared with a year
earlier. Price gains were strongest among  Florida  builders.
Contacts noted that multi-family construction remained robust.
In the near-term, homebuilders expect sales and construction to
post modest gains compared with a year earlier.  Apartment sector gains drove improvements in the District’s
commercial real estate markets as occupancies rose and rental
rates increased. The region’s office and industrial sectors saw
small improvements as vacancy rates moderated somewhat; however,
reports on District retail real estate continued to be more
mixed. The majority of commercial contractors said that
construction activity was flat on a year-over-year basis. The
majority of contacts anticipate a modest increase in private
commercial construction activity through the remainder of the
year, while public works projects are expected to decelerate.  Manufacturing and Transportation. Manufacturing contacts
indicated that the pace of new orders and production growth
remained positive, but had moderated. A major European-based
aircraft manufacturer announced it will locate its first
American manufacturing facility in  Alabama . A Florida
manufacturer, closely tied to the  construction industry ,
reported improved but volatile business conditions based on
increases in construction of multi-family dwellings, healthcare
facilities, and construction at ports.  According to railroad contacts, intermodal activity continued to
strengthen. Double-digit increases in shipments of petroleum
products, motor vehicles, and equipment were reported; however,
movement of grain, metallic ores, and nonmetallic minerals
declined. A logistics contact indicated slowing activity,
particularly in the retail sector, and had lowered projections
slightly for the remainder of the year. Trucking contacts
reported softening volumes, and forecasts for the upcoming
shipping season were slightly less robust than earlier in the
year.  Banking and Finance. Banking contacts noted some improvement in
residential mortgage lending. Auto loans continued to be a
source of strength, while commercial and industrial lending
remained soft. Contacts reported significant competition among
lenders for credit-worthy customers. Bankers indicated that low
 interest rates , coupled with a limited number of qualified
borrowers, continued to squeeze bank margins.  Employment and Prices. Regional employment growth remained
positive, but muted. Employers continued to cite uncertainty
regarding future economic conditions as a reason for limiting
hiring and recent economic volatility appears to have
exacerbated these anxieties. Small stores with very low price
points reported doing well and were expanding with significant
hiring plans across the District. Contacts continued to note
difficulty in finding qualified applicants for many highly-
technical positions, and some reported problems finding
candidates for some lower-skilled positions. Many manufacturing
and trucking contacts continued to note challenges in attracting
applicants with necessary skills. The skills mismatch problem
has been especially hard on low-wage individuals, according to
community and economic development contacts.  Firms responding in June to the Atlanta Fed’s Business Inflation
Expectations survey reported a decline in unit cost expectations
for the second consecutive month. Survey respondents indicated
that, on average, they expect labor and material costs to rise
1.7 percent over the next 12 months. That number is down from
1.8 percent in May and 2.1 percent in April. Firms also reported
that their unit costs had risen 1.6 percent compared with this
time last year, which is unchanged from their assessment in May.
Business contacts reported that lower prices for natural gas and
refined oil products were reportedly providing some cost relief.
Wage pressures remained modest, although some employers noted
that they were increasing starting pay for workers with high-
demand skill sets.  Natural Resources and Agriculture. Contacts continued to report
that investment in expanding and maintaining existing
transportation infrastructure would be necessary to accommodate
increases in domestic oil and natural gas production. Contacts
have noted a steady increase in  capital expenditures  on
refineries for upgrades and expansions. Deep-water permits for
offshore drilling have increased. Varying levels of drought
conditions had expanded through much of the District resulting
in stress to some crops. However, the June tropical storm helped
some areas. Compared with last year, June’s prices paid to
farmers were down for cotton and corn while prices for oranges,
beef, and soybeans increased. 