-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT--NEW YORK  Growth in the Second District’s economy has slowed since the
last report, though labor market conditions have continued to
improve. Price pressures have receded further in both
manufacturing and other industry sectors, and retail prices have
been stable. Non-manufacturing contacts generally report that
conditions have held steady in recent weeks, while manufacturers
report flat to weaker activity. Retailers generally report
weaker results for May and June, but auto dealers indicate that
sales activity was fairly robust; tourism activity has continued
to be steady and strong. Home sales markets have shown signs of
improvement, while rental markets have remained firm; however,
commercial real estate markets have slowed modestly. Finally,
bankers report a leveling off in loan demand, no change in
credit standards, and further declines in delinquency rates on
commercial loans and mortgages.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report that sales activity has been somewhat softer
since the last report. One major retail chain indicates that
sales were down noticeably from a year earlier, with home goods
sales especially weak. Another major chain reports that sales
slowed in June and were running somewhat below plan but still up
marginally from a year earlier; however, some improvement was
noted during the first few days of July. Retail contacts in
upstate New York report that sales were mixed in May but picked
up in June, again buoyed by Canadian shoppers. Retail prices
continue to be described as steady. Inventories are generally
said to be at or slightly above desired levels.  Auto dealers in upstate New York report positive results. Sales
of new vehicles were up noticeably from a year ago in May and
are projected to be up modestly in June. Leasing activity and
business at dealers’ service departments have been robust since
the last report. Dealers also report strong sales and elevated
prices for used vehicles. Wholesale and retail credit conditions
remain favorable, though one contact reports that banks have
reined in lending for used vehicles. Tourism activity has
remained robust since the last report.  New York City  hotels
indicate that revenues per room were up 6-7 percent from a year
ago in May and that very preliminary figures for June suggest
similar gains. This gain reflects increased occupancy rates,
which have been running above 90 percent, as well as 3-4 percent
increases in average room rates. Attendance at Broadway theatres
was generally steady in May and June and up slightly from a year
earlier, while revenue was up more than 10 percent, due to
rising ticket prices.  Construction and Real Estate  Housing markets across much of the District have improved
somewhat since the last report, while rental markets have
continued to strengthen. Both the volume of Manhattan apartment
sales and selling prices were steady in the second quarter;
sales of smaller apartments have picked up and account for a
growing share of the market. Foreign buyers continue to be a
fairly big component of demand at the higher end of New York
City’s market. Housing markets in  Long Island  and Westchester
County are reported to have improved in the second quarter:
sales activity has picked up, prices have stabilized, and the
inventory of available homes, though high, has begun to decline.
Existing home sales and prices in northern  New Jersey  have been
flat, hampered by a glut of distressed properties on the market;
but there has been a modest pickup in new home sales, as well as
construction starts. Real estate contacts in Western New York
continue to report robust sales activity and rising prices,
despite “tough” mortgage conditions. New York City’s apartment
rental market continued to strengthen in the second quarter,
with inventories tight and rents increasing--most notably on
smaller and lower priced apartments.  Commercial real estate markets in and around New York City have
shown some signs of softening since the last report. Office
vacancy rates in Manhattan, though steady for the second quarter
overall, rose in June; new leasing activity slowed, as renewals
have accounted for a growing share of leases. A major brokerage
firm notes strong demand from tech firms--largely in  Manhattan ’s
Midtown South district--but sluggish demand from the financial
sector. Office vacancy rates in the areas around Manhattan--Long
Island, Westchester, and northern New Jersey--edged up in the
2nd quarter. Retail vacancy rates in New York City and northern
New Jersey rose slightly in the second quarter. Industrial
vacancy rates also edged up in most markets.  Other Business Activity  Contacts across the District indicate that business activity has
leveled off since the last report. Business contacts in both
manufacturing and other sectors indicate little change in
general conditions, but manufacturing contacts in New York State
report a pullback in both new and unfilled orders. In addition,
business contacts in manufacturing and other sectors note a
leveling off in input prices and steady to declining selling
prices.  Still, labor market conditions across the District have been
steady to slightly improved since the last report. Both
manufacturers and business contacts in other sectors say that
they are adding workers, on net. A major New York City
employment agency specializing in office jobs reports that
hiring activity remains fairly subdued and is little changed
from the spring; however, this contact also notes that the pool
of qualified workers is limited and appears to be dwindling
gradually. Similarly, a trucking industry contact notes that
firms are having a difficult time finding qualified drivers.  Financial Developments  Responses from small- to medium-sized banks in the District
suggest no change in loan demand overall. For specific loan
categories, bankers report increased demand for home mortgage
loans, but decreased demand for commercial & industrial loans.
Bankers also indicate steady to increasing demand for
refinancing. The vast majority of contacts report no change in
credit standards across all loan categories. Respondents
indicate continued decreases in spreads of loan rates over costs
of funds for all loan categories--particularly commercial &
industrial loans and commercial mortgages. Respondents also note
increasingly widespread declines in the average deposit rate.
Finally, bankers report a decrease in delinquency rates on
commercial loans and mortgages but steady rates on loans to the
household sector. 