-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Overall, business activity in the Third District has continued
to improve since the previous  Beige Book , although results were
mixed. Manufacturing activity slowed somewhat. Retail sales and
auto sales continued to increase, but at paces that varied
across sectors and states. Third District banks have reported
steady growth in lending and stronger credit quality since the
last Beige Book. Demand for new  home construction  held steady,
and brokers report improving sales of existing homes. Commercial
real estate contacts report little change in current demand,
while on average service-sector firms report modest continued
growth. Price pressures have eased further in many sectors since
the last Beige Book.  The overall outlook appears somewhat more optimistic relative to
the views expressed in the last Beige Book, due in part to the
slowdown experienced then and the subsequent positive
announcements regarding major new projects. Manufacturers’
expectations for the next six months remain positive, while
anticipated hiring and  capital spending  has increased further
since the previous Beige Book. Retailers, auto dealers, and
financial firms remain positive, but somewhat more cautious
because of ongoing consumer uncertainty. Real estate and
service-sector firms are slightly more optimistic but continue
to plan for slow growth through the remainder of 2012. In
general, business plans reflect caution, and business contacts
express perspectives based on a “new normal” of steady growth at
a slower pace than previous expansions.  Manufacturing. Since the last Beige Book, Third District
manufacturers have reported declines in shipments and new
orders. Gains - some seasonal - continued among the makers of
industrial machinery. Makers of food products, lumber and wood
products, primary metals, fabricated metals, electronic
equipment, and instruments reported a falloff in demand. A few
contacts mentioned a slowdown of Marcellus shale activity as a
factor in weaker demand.  About eight out of 10 Third District manufacturers expect
business conditions to improve or stay the same during the next
six months - reflecting a similar level of optimism as reported
in the last Beige Book. Optimism is represented in the major
sectors cited above, except lumber and fabricated metals.
Furthermore, makers of lumber products specifically cited
seasonal declines for their weaker six-month expectation. Firms
expressed greater expectations of future capital spending and
future hiring since the last Beige Book. Several contacts
mentioned the need for a new transportation authorization bill -
subsequently passed by Congress after a three-year delay. That
and recent announcements of deals to maintain and restart
District refinery operations will likely add to the general
optimism.  Retail. Third District retailers at major malls reported
stronger year-over-year sales in May than in April, while outlet
centers reported lower growth in May and June than in previous
months. At malls, high-end goods, including Apple products and
jewelry, did especially well. Sales of children’s clothing were
down year-over-year at outlet centers for the first time since
2007; typically a negative signal, this time it may reflect a
delay in deep discounting of back-to-school items that had
already been discounted by this time last year. Retail contacts
remain cautiously optimistic.  Auto sales moderated in  Pennsylvania  in June following strong
sales in April and May, which followed an unusually strong first
quarter throughout the Third District.  New Jersey  reported
stronger auto sales in June after more modest growth in April
and May. Industry contacts report that fluctuating gas prices
are delaying some purchases by elevating uncertainty among
buyers weighing their options between trucks and SUVs versus
high-efficiency automobiles. Very low borrowing costs for
inventories continue to support dealers’ profitability, while
demand for dealer services and repairs remains low. The outlook
for auto sales remains generally positive, although dealers are
concerned that increased consumer uncertainty will not support
further growth in sales through the third quarter.  Finance. Contacts from the Third District’s financial sector
report continued slow improvement since the previous Beige Book.
The very slow increase in demand is reflected in uneven reports,
with some lenders reporting increases primarily as gains in
market share, while others are shifting into and out of various
lending segments. Bank contacts report frequent requests from
business borrowers for loan modifications, while home
refinancings have slowed recently. Most contacts report strong,
improving  credit quality  as households and businesses pay down
debt early and build cash reserves. Many contacts report that
businesses have adjusted to the “new normal” and anticipate
little new growth “through the election and after.”  Real Estate and Construction. Residential builders report little
change in their level of activity since the last Beige Book.
Traffic remained relatively strong, but contract signings
remained elusive and weaker than in the first quarter. While
uncertainty remains and recent sales were disappointing, high
levels of interest continue to encourage builders on their
prospects over the next few months. Contacts report a few new
developments in select markets and limited hiring to facilitate
strategic growth objectives. Residential brokers reported
improving year-over-year home sales in May, and inventory has
fallen significantly over the past two years in most markets.
Bidding wars reported in a few markets for low-end homes signal
that prices in those markets have likely found a bottom. The
outlook among builders and brokers remains cautiously positive.  Nonresidential real estate activity has changed little since the
last Beige Book, with most contacts indicating continued slow
growth in demand for lease and new construction. Bidding for the
design and construction of new projects remains “cut-throat,”
and margins remain tight for most lease negotiations. Three
significant groups of announcements - passage of the two-year
federal transportation bill, the various District refinery
deals, and a new funding agreement for construction of an urban
development project in downtown Allentown - have raised
expectations for stronger growth of nonresidential construction
activity in the near future. The overall outlook for
nonresidential real estate has brightened somewhat since the
last Beige Book.  Services. Most Third District service-sector firms continue to
report little change from the slow but positive growth reported
in the last Beige Book. One contact captured the thoughts of
many by describing the economy as “orderly, functioning, nothing
exciting.” Staffing firms report some seasonal uptick in hiring,
but little change in overall demand or expectations. A few firms
report opportunistic investments to capture market share, enter
new markets, or take advantage of growth in emerging economies,
such as  Brazil . Election-year advertising has been a boon for
some firms. However, election-year uncertainty and the slowdown
in Europe and  China  have sidelined investment plans for many
firms for the remainder of the year. Overall, service-sector
firms retain a positive, but cautious, outlook for growth.  Prices and Wages. Price levels have eased further since the
previous Beige Book and remain generally constrained. Falling
gas prices have contributed to the recent broader price easing.
Manufacturing firms have reported lower cost factors since the
last Beige Book. Home builders continue to report rising cost
pressures for materials and limited ability to pass these costs
along. Retailers also continue to report tight margins. Nearly
all contacts report an ongoing lack of wage pressures, other
than for medical benefits.  House prices  have stabilized in many
areas for low-end homes but continue to fall for high-end homes. 