-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  Economic activity in the Fourth District continued to expand
since our last report, but at a slower pace. On balance,
manufacturers reported a slight rise in production. New-home
construction ticked down, while nonresidential builders saw
stronger inquiries. Retailers and auto dealers noted little
change in sales during May. Wet shale gas drilling and
production increased, though the demand for coal has slowed.
Freight transport volume moved lower. And there was some easing
in the demand for business credit.  Little hiring was reported across industry sectors. Staffing-
firm representatives indicated that the largest numbers of  job
openings  were found in healthcare and information technology.
Wage pressures are contained. Input prices were stable, apart
from the volatility in residential building materials.  Manufacturing. On balance, District factories reported a slight
increase in new orders and production during the past six weeks,
although we continued to hear reports about a weakening in
orders from European customers. Almost all of our respondents
said that output was above year-ago levels. The outlook by
manufacturers was mixed. Respondents who sell products to
aerospace, auto, and energy companies expect moderate growth in
the near term. Other contacts are less certain about growth
prospects than they had been a few months earlier. Shipping
volume by steel producers and service centers was flat or down
slightly, with demand being driven mainly by the transportation
and energy sectors. Because of uncertainty about market
conditions in the upcoming months, many steel producers are in
the process of lowering their inventories. District auto
production showed a moderate pick-up during May on a month-over-
month basis, while rising substantially from year-ago levels.
Increased production year-over-year was attributed mainly to the
abatement of supply chain issues.  Capacity utilization was at normal levels for most producers
after adjusting for seasonal factors. Capital budgets remain on
track, with several contacts reporting that they intend to ramp
up spending during the second half of the year. Three
manufacturers said that they are currently planning capacity
expansions. Raw material prices were stable or declined
slightly. Most steel makers lowered their prices; otherwise,
producer prices held steady. Little change in payrolls was
noted, although attracting skilled workers remains difficult.
Wage pressures are contained.  Construction. Single-family  home construction  slowed a bit
across the District relative to the March/April time frame,
although sales were higher compared to year-ago levels. The
outlook by homebuilders is less favorable than in our last
report. They believe that the domestic political climate and a
lowering in consumer sentiment may hurt sales. Contracts were in
all price-point categories, except for the high-end. Buyers are
looking to downsize and are noticeably more cost conscious. A
few reports indicated an uptick in new-home prices within the
Fourth District, though margins are still tight. Volatility in
building material prices, which began late in the first quarter,
has persisted.  Nonresidential contractors described current business conditions
as good and much better than a year ago. Inquiries were strong,
which should help bolster near-term backlogs. Projects were
broad based, driven by education, healthcare, manufacturing, and
multi-family housing. Financing has become more readily
available, except for speculative projects. The outlook is
fairly positive, but builders are concerned about the upcoming
elections and events in  Europe  and the impact they could have
going into 2013. We heard reports of a slight rise in building
material prices. Even with the pickup in volume, residential and
nonresidential builders have been reluctant to hire additional
workers. One builder commented that he is hesitant to add
workers until he has a backlog of two-to-three years.
Residential and commercial subcontractors have kept their
billing rates steady.  Consumer Spending . Retailers reported little change in sales
during May on a month-over-month basis, but sales were higher
relative to year-ago levels. Increased revenues were seen across
retail categories. Two of our contacts noted that the warm
winter weather did not negatively impact consumer spending
during the second quarter. Other respondents reported that the
rate of growth in purchases of  luxury goods  has decelerated
during the past couple of months. Retailers anticipate that
revenues during the third quarter will be above prior-year
levels, mainly in the single digits. Vendor prices were fairly
stable. Increases were attributed to higher costs for off-shore
labor. Little change was noted in store prices. Inventories
continued to rise modestly, but they were described as
manageable. Capital spending for the year remains on target. No
hiring is anticipated, except at new stores, and wage pressures
are contained.  Auto dealers described new-vehicle purchases as steady during
the past six weeks, when compared to earlier in the second
quarter. Any slowdowns were attributed to seasonal factors or a
poor inventory mix, although most dealers are satisfied with
their inventory positions. Volume was higher on a year-over-year
basis. Dealers reported that sales of fuel-efficient vehicles
and trucks are doing particularly well. Leasing continued to
grow in popularity. The outlook by dealers for the remainder of
2012 is cautiously optimistic, with many expecting that total
sales for the year will equal or be slightly above 2011 levels.
Purchases of used vehicles were fairly steady on a year-over-
year basis, although some dealers were unhappy with the quality
of their inventory. Hiring for sales and service positions was
at a very slow pace. Difficulty in finding qualified service
technicians has resulted in some wage pressure.  Banking. Bankers reported some easing in demand for business
credit.  Interest rates  remain competitive, especially for
refinancings. Loan requests were broad based, with the primary
drivers being healthcare, multifamily construction, and shale-
gas-related businesses. Little change in  consumer credit  was
noted. Products in highest demand were auto loans (direct and
indirect) and home equity lines of credit. Consumer credit
pricing trended down slightly. In the residential mortgage
market, demand was described as stable to very strong. A high
percentage of applicants were looking to refinance, although a
few contacts said that they are beginning to see a shift in
applications from refinancing to new purchase. Two bankers
reported some moderate loosening of auto lending guidelines,
otherwise no changes were made to loan application standards.
Delinquencies were steady or declined and a few of our
respondents cited a drop in credit card delinquencies. Core
deposits rose; consumers continued to transition from time-
deposit accounts to transaction accounts. One banker reported a
moderate reduction in the size of his workforce, while another
said that his bank is considering a staff reduction due to the
low interest rate environment.  Energy. Conventional oil and natural gas production was stable,
with little change expected in the upcoming weeks. Well-head
prices for natural gas remain at very low levels, while crude
prices dropped slightly. Permitting in the Utica shale region of
 Ohio  expanded. The number of Utica permits issued by the Ohio
Department of Natural Resources during the first half of 2012
equaled the number issued for all of 2011. Drilling in the Utica
shale has picked up, mainly by large, out-of-state companies.
Coal production this year is expected to fall below 2011 levels
due primarily to reduced demand from electric utilities. Spot
prices for metallurgical and steam coals declined further.
Production equipment and materials prices were flat, and capital
outlays were at projected levels. Significant layoffs were
announced by one coal producer due to the idling of some of its
mining operations. Otherwise, little change was seen in energy
payrolls.  Transportation. Freight transport volume was flat or moved
slightly lower during May on a month-over-month basis. Sectors
driving demand included energy and transportation along with
seasonal products. The outlook for the remainder of 2012 remains
positive, but most respondents do not expect that growth will be
as strong as they had predicted earlier in the year. Costs
associated with truck maintenance and diesel fuel prices
continued to stabilize.  Capital spending  for 2012 remains on
plan. Outlays are allocated for the replacement of aging units
and adding capacity. However, some slowing in spending might
occur due to concerns about economic growth and industry
consolidation. One contact noted that he is finalizing plans for
a terminal expansion in the eastern part of the District.
Companies are hiring for replacement and capacity expansion.
Wage pressure exists due to a tightening of the driver pool. 