-- U.S.-Europe Divide Reaches Widest Since February: Credit Markets
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z
-- 2012-07-18T17:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-europe-divide-reaches-widest-since-february-credit-markets.html
U.S. and European corporate bonds
are diverging by the most in five months as demand rises for
debt of American borrowers seen insulated from the sovereign
crisis.  The difference between relative yields on investment-grade
notes from the regions expanded to 30 basis points as of
yesterday from this year’s low of 9 on July 5, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch index data. Company bonds of U.S.
borrowers from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  to  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) 
are returning more than comparable European notes for the fourth
month, after underperforming from December through March.  The expanding gap underscores the difference in investors’
outlooks as the  International Monetary Fund  cuts its global
growth forecast for 2013 to 3.9 percent, with the U.S. expected
to expand at more than three times the rate of the euro area.
Bond buyers seeking a haven from global turmoil are funneling
cash toward dollar-denominated debt as yields on Treasuries
reach record lows.  “ Monetary policy  and lack of global growth are forcing the
same investors into U.S. corporates as U.S. Treasuries,”
Nicholas Pappas, Deutsche Bank AG’s co-head of flow credit
trading in  North America , wrote in an e-mail. “The rotation
into fixed income continues regardless of the rich valuations.”  Risk Avoidance  As Italian banks get downgraded and Spain considers
liquidating lenders that aren’t viable, investors are avoiding
companies they perceive as most at risk.  “During the second quarter, anything European was
tarnished with a very broad brush,” said Jonathan Fine, Goldman
Sachs Group Inc.’s head of investment-grade syndicate for the
Americas in  New York . “While this sentiment has shifted in
recent weeks, asset allocators were clearly moving out of
European credit risk during the quarter, which has driven wider
European risk premia versus similarly rated U.S. corporates.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate debt from default in the U.S. decreased for a second
day, with the Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index,
which investors use to hedge against losses or to speculate on
creditworthiness, dropping 2.3 basis points to a mid-price of
108.9 basis points as of 12:58 p.m. in New York, according to
prices compiled by Bloomberg.  The measure typically falls as investor confidence improves
and rises as it deteriorates. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Rate Swaps  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, increased 0.5 basis point to 24 basis points
as of 12:58 p.m. in New York. The gauge widens when investors
seek the perceived safety of  government securities  and narrows
when they favor assets such as corporate bonds.  Bonds of Goldman Sachs are the most actively traded dollar-
denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with 108
trades of $1 million or more as of 1 p.m. in New York, according
to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial
Industry Regulatory Authority.  The IMF projects the euro area economy will expand 0.7
percent in 2013, with economies in  Italy  and Spain contracting
for a second consecutive year. That compares with an expected
growth rate of 2.3 percent in the U.S. next year.  ‘Lagging U.S.’  “European corporate spreads are lagging U.S.-dollar
corporate spreads, and within the U.S.-dollar market, European
issuers are lagging U.S. issuers,” JPMorgan analysts led by
 Eric Beinstein  in New York wrote in a July 16 note. Debt buyers
“are investing in safer U.S. credit despite their longer term
worries,” according to the report.  Spreads on U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds have
narrowed to 203 basis points compared with 233 basis points for
comparable European debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show. The gap is the widest since Feb. 20. Yields on the
 U.S. debt  reached a record low of 3.1 percent on July 16.  “Spreads on European corporates in both categories
continue to be extremely wide versus their U.S. counterparts,”
 Martin Fridson , global credit strategist at BNP Paribas
Investment Partners in New York, wrote in a note distributed
yesterday. “The ongoing European sovereign debt crisis is still
the main factor underlying these valuations.”  Liquidate Lenders  Spain  is negotiating the terms of a 100 billion-euro ($123
billion) European bailout for its banks, which are still reeling
from the collapse of the debt-fueled real estate boom in 2008.
Bank of Spain Governor Luis Maria Linde said yesterday that the
nation may liquidate lenders that aren’t viable as part of its
European-financed overhaul of the industry.  UniCredit SpA and Intesa Sanpaolo SpA were among 13 Italian
banks that had credit ratings cut this week by Moody’s, which
cited the nation’s weakening economy and government finances.  Debt from  Europe ’s most creditworthy borrowers including
Enel SpA, Italy’s biggest utility, has returned 1.77 percent
since the end of June, after leaders of the 17 euro countries
agreed to ease repayment rules for emergency loans to Spanish
banks and relax conditions on potential help for Italy.  That compares with 1.86 percent gains on similarly rated
notes in the U.S., Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. Bonds of Hartford, Connecticut-based  United Technologies ,
the maker of Pratt & Whitney jet engines, have gained 2.93
percent and debt of Wal-Mart of Bentonville,  Arkansas , the
world’s largest retailer, has returned 3.36 percent.  Investors are turning to U.S. company debt as a refuge from
the turmoil as U.S. Treasury yields plummet to 1.5 percent.
Yields fell to a record low of 1.45 percent on June 1.  “Despite the fact that we’ve seen a more synchronized
global slowdown in the recent months, the U.S. still remains to
be the best place to be in terms of the corporate side,” said
Dorian Garay, who manages money for a global investment-grade
bond fund at ING Investment Management, which oversaw 322
billion euros as of year-end. “My expectation is that the
uncertainty will remain in Europe for some time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 