-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District-- Minneapolis.  NINTH DISTRICT--MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy grew moderately since the last
report. Increased activity was noted in  consumer spending ,
tourism, professional services, construction, real estate, and
agriculture. Growth was also positive, but slightly slower than
in the previous reporting period, in the manufacturing, energy,
and mining sectors. Some tightening was noted in labor markets,
and wage increases were moderate. Price increases were modest,
and some decreases were noted.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending grew moderately. Same-store sales at a
Minnesota-based retailer increased 2 percent in June compared
with a year ago. Sales at a North Dakota mall during June were
up over 5 percent compared with a year earlier. A number of new
retail store and restaurant openings were reported in North
Dakota. Recent new car and truck sales were up at dealerships in
 Montana , according to a representative of an auto dealers
association. However, recent same-store sales at a Minnesota-
based women’s apparel retailer were down 15 percent from a year
earlier.  Tourism activity increased from a year ago. Tourism officials in
the Upper Peninsula of  Michigan  predicted that summer activity
will surpass last year’s levels. In northwestern  Wisconsin ,
resorts were full and sales at other tourism-related businesses
posted strong increases. Visits to the  Minnesota  Zoo for the 12-
month period ended in June reached record levels, according to
officials. A Minnesota-based travel agency noted that leisure
travel was down somewhat, while corporate travel was steady;
overall revenue was up. However, restaurant and hotel owners in
the Duluth, Minn., area noted a decrease in visits following a
major flood in the region.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity increased since the last
report. The value of new commercial building permits issued in
Fargo, N.D., so far in 2012 increased compared with the same
period in 2011. Commercial permits in the Sioux Falls, S.D.,
area were up substantially in value in June from a year earlier.
Numerous new commercial building projects were in early stages
in the  Minneapolis  area, including a new headquarters for a
large utility and a major expansion at an area hospital.
Residential construction increased from a year ago. The value of
residential building permits in the Sioux Falls area in June
more than doubled from a year earlier. Residential permits
increased in value and number in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area
in June; the single-family sector saw a surprising rebound.
Several large multifamily housing projects were under way in
Fargo.  Commercial real estate markets saw continued strength. A
Minneapolis property on which a mixed-use development has been
stalled since 2003 recently sold to a new investor. Prices for
commercial property in the oil boom areas of the District
continued to increase. Residential real estate market activity
increased as well. Home sales in May were up 27 percent from the
same period a year ago in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area; the
inventory of homes for sale was down 31 percent, and the median
sales price rose by 11 percent. In the  Sioux Falls  area, May
home sales were up 32 percent, inventory was down, and the
median sales price rose nearly 3 percent relative to a year
earlier.  Services  Activity at professional business services firms grew somewhat
since the last report. According to a Minneapolis Fed ad hoc
survey, District professional business services firms noted
gains in revenue and profits over the past three months, while
the amount of space occupied held relatively steady. Respondents
were mildly optimistic about the upcoming three months regarding
revenue and profits. Some contacts noted that competition in the
sector has lowered prices and driven down margins, yet projects
were more complex and customer expectations were higher than
five to 10 years ago.  Manufacturing  Growth in the District manufacturing sector moderated slightly
from the last report. A June survey of  purchasing managers  by
Creighton University (Omaha, Neb.) found that manufacturing
activity expanded in Minnesota and the Dakotas, but at a
slightly slower pace than in recent months. A medical equipment
maker near Minneapolis announced an expansion into a previously
idle facility. A pipe producer announced plans to build a new
plant in South Dakota. Plans moved ahead for a potential $1
billion fertilizer plant in  North Dakota  that would make use of
natural gas from the state’s oil patch.  Energy and mining  Activity in the energy and mining sectors slowed slightly. Oil
and gas exploration activity decreased in North Dakota and
Montana since the last report, but oil production was at record
levels. Reports surfaced of ethanol producers idling plants in
response to sharp increases in corn prices in late June and
early July, along with declining gasoline prices. District coal-
mining operations also saw reductions in demand as electricity
generation shifted toward natural gas. A mining company
suspended its involvement in a joint project to develop a
copper, zinc, and gold mine in Michigan’s Upper Peninsula.
However, hard rock mines in Montana and iron ore producers in
northern Minnesota remained busy.  Agriculture  District farmers mostly continued to benefit from favorable
weather conditions. Drought that was threatening corn and
soybean production throughout the Midwest has not had much
effect on Minnesota and North Dakota, where most of those crops
were rated in good or excellent condition. However, crop quality
was somewhat weaker in Wisconsin and in  South Dakota , where
drought conditions were more prevalent. Prices received by
farmers in June--prior to drought damage in other parts of the
Midwest--increased from a year earlier for soybeans, hay, dry
beans, poultry, and cattle; prices decreased for corn, wheat,
hogs, and dairy products.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Some tightening in labor markets was noted since the last
report. Across the District, some health care organizations
indicated they were planning to hire more workers, a number of
retailers noted difficulty finding sales associates to fill open
positions, and manufacturers continued to struggle to find
skilled welders. According to the aforementioned ad hoc survey
of professional business services firms, 28 percent expect to
increase hiring over the next three months, while 8 percent
expect decreases in staff levels. However, in Minnesota an
electronics retailer will lay off an unspecified number of store
and technical support workers in the state, a paper company laid
off about 260 workers following an explosion at the plant, and a
cable company laid off almost 70 salespeople.  Wage increases were moderate. Some contacts noted that
compensation increases were now similar to prerecession levels
as wages and benefits generally held steady during the past few
years. Unionized grocery workers in Montana reached labor
agreements that include about a 2.5 percent pay increase and
added contributions to health and pension plans. Meanwhile, a
nearly year-long lockout continued at a sugar beet processing
plant after union workers recently voted to reject the
management’s offer for a third time. Wages for truck drivers
posted larger increases.  Overall price increases were modest, and some decreases were
noted. Early July Minnesota gasoline prices decreased more than
10 cents per gallon since the end of May. Metals prices, as well
as several other input costs, remained relatively level. One
exception was a substantial increase in the price of tires for
mining machinery. 