-- U.S. Federal Reserve July Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-july-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the Federal Reserve Board’s Summary of Commentary.  SUMMARY*  Reports from most of the twelve Federal Reserve Districts
indicated that overall economic activity continued to expand at
a modest to moderate pace in June and early July. The Atlanta,
 St. Louis , and San Francisco Districts reported modest growth,
while  Boston ,  Chicago ,  Minneapolis ,  Kansas City , and  Dallas 
described economic activity as advancing moderately. The  New
York , Philadelphia, and  Cleveland  Districts noted that activity
continued to expand, but at a slower pace since the last report,
while Richmond cited mixed activity.  Retail sales increased slightly in all reporting Districts
except Boston and Cleveland, where sales were categorized as
flat, and New York, where sales softened. Of the Districts that
saw an increase in activity, most noted strength in auto sales.
In particular, auto dealers noted that demand for fuel-efficient
vehicles continued to support sales. Tourism activity remained
strong according to contacts in the New York, Richmond, Atlanta,
Minneapolis, and San Francisco Districts.  All District housing market reports were largely positive as
sales and construction levels increased and home inventories
declined. Rental markets continued to strengthen with rising
rents being reported in Boston, New York, Atlanta, Chicago, and
Dallas. Commercial real estate leasing and construction
continued to improve as demand for multifamily units increased
in Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco. However, both New York
and Richmond noted a slowdown in commercial activity, while
Philadelphia and Dallas held steady. Manufacturing activity
continued to expand slowly in most Districts, and Cleveland,
Atlanta, Chicago, and Kansas City cited slight increases in
production levels. However, several Districts reported a
deceleration in new orders, and the Philadelphia and Richmond
Districts reported declines in shipments and orders. Demand for
nonfinancial services remained generally stable in most regions.
Richmond noted strong sales among professional, scientific, and
technical firms, while Dallas noted strength in energy, legal,
and audit-related services. Transportation reports were
generally positive, with Kansas City noting an uptick in
trucking activity, while Richmond reported increased port
activity.  Demand for loans, particularly those related to real estate,
grew modestly in most Districts. However, both Cleveland and
Richmond noted some weakness in loan activity. Credit standards
remained unchanged in New York, Richmond, and Kansas City, while
credit quality improved in Philadelphia, Kansas City, Dallas,
and San Francisco. Agricultural production and pricing reports
were mixed. While drought conditions have affected production in
some Districts, others noted favorable conditions. Chicago and
Kansas City reported a significant deterioration of corn crops,
which has pushed up prices since the end of June.  All Districts conveyed that input prices had stabilized in
recent months. Price pressures were described as easing in New
York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and San Francisco as energy costs
declined. Wage pressures remained modest, except for highly
skilled workers in  information technology , health care,
transportation, and manufacturing. Employment levels improved at
a tepid pace for most Districts. Overall, Districts reported
that their contacts remained cautiously optimistic about future
business conditions.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Most Districts reported modest increases in retail spending on a
year-over-year basis, but many reported slower growth in recent
months compared with earlier in the year; however, Boston and
Cleveland reported sales as flat, and New York cited softer
sales. There were a few reports that high summer temperatures
negatively affected sales. Sales of big-ticket household goods
were strong in the Richmond, Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas
Districts, while sales were reportedly flat for home furnishings
and major appliances in the San Francisco District. Boston
reported that sales for furniture and electronics had slowed,
and retailers in the New York District reported that home goods
sales were weak. Reports from  luxury-goods  retailers were mixed.
Firms in the Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts
reported that sales of high-end goods remained strong, while
retailers in the Kansas City and San Francisco Districts
indicated demand had softened, and those in the Cleveland
District noted that sales of luxury goods had slowed. Most
Districts reported that vehicle sales remained robust. Demand
was high for fuel-efficient vehicles in particular. Looking
forward, merchants in the Boston and Philadelphia Districts were
concerned that economic uncertainty could result in restrained
sales growth, while retailers in the Cleveland District
anticipated that the third quarter will be higher compared with
year-ago levels. Kansas City noted that merchants there expected
further strengthening in the coming months.  Travel and tourism activity was reported as strong across
several Districts. Hotel occupancy rates and revenue per room
were robust in many areas according to reports from New York,
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, and San Francisco. Attendance
numbers were solid at attractions in various Districts,
including theme parks in  Florida  and New York’s Broadway
theaters. Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco reported that
natural disasters had negatively affected bookings in some parts
of their Districts. Dallas reported that demand for
international travel was strongest for South America and Mexico
destinations. Atlanta shared their contacts’ concerns about the
potential impact of economic and financial stress abroad and the
effect it could have on international travel. That said, several
Districts reported that the outlook among the majority of
hospitality contacts for the remainder of the summer is good as
hotel and convention bookings continued to exceed last year’s
pace.  Real Estate and Construction  Reports on residential housing markets remained largely
positive. Sales were characterized as improving in Philadelphia,
New York, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and Minneapolis, while
home sales increased in Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, St. Louis,
Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco. However,
reports on sales were mixed in the New York District, and gains
in the Boston District eased from earlier in the year.  New home
sales  were described as disappointing in the Philadelphia
District. Construction increased in the New York, Atlanta, St.
Louis, Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts, while
reports from the Cleveland District said construction slowed.
Most Districts reported declines in home inventories. Homes
prices have begun to stabilize in some markets and price
increases were noted in select markets. Boston and Atlanta noted
that appraisals were coming in below market prices.  Rental markets continued to strengthen by most accounts. Rising
apartment rents were reported in the Boston, New York, Atlanta,
Chicago, and Dallas Districts. Strong demand for rental units
spurred increases in multifamily construction in the San
Francisco District. Multifamily construction was described as
strong in the Atlanta and Chicago Districts. Apartment
construction is expected to pick up over the next several months
in the Dallas District.  Recent activity in commercial real estate markets has been
mixed. Modest improvements were noted in Boston, Atlanta, and
St. Louis and demand strengthened in the San Francisco District.
Softer conditions were reported in the New York and Richmond
Districts, while demand held steady in the Philadelphia and
Dallas Districts. Nonresidential construction activity varied as
well. Construction activity increased modestly in the
Minneapolis and Kansas City Districts, while construction
continued to gain momentum in the Boston District. Demand for
commercial construction rose in Chicago, while activity was
described as much improved from a year earlier in the Cleveland
District. Construction was flat in the Atlanta District on a
year-over-year basis, while activity had softened in recent
months in the Richmond District. Overall, the outlook among
commercial real estate contacts and contractors was slightly
positive.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing continued to expand in June and early July in most
Districts, but at a more modest pace compared with earlier in
the year. Several Districts reported that new orders had
moderated since the last report, but the Philadelphia, St.
Louis, and Kansas City Districts were more optimistic that new
orders would rebound. The Philadelphia and Richmond Districts
however, reported declines in shipments and orders. The passing
of a transportation bill through Congress led contacts in the
Philadelphia District to express interest in increasing their
 capital spending . Capacity utilization rates at refineries and
petrochemical manufacturing facilities held steady in the San
Francisco District, with weaker domestic demand being offset by
growing exports. Meanwhile, manufacturers in the Dallas District
reported operating at above 90 percent utilization rates to
catch up with below-normal inventory levels.  The San Francisco District noted continued strength in
semiconductor production, while the Dallas District said sales
at high-tech manufacturing had decreased since the last report.
Expectations from high-tech manufacturers in the Dallas District
were that growth would remain flat to slightly weaker through
year’s end, a change from earlier in the year when most contacts
anticipated a pick-up in the second half. Overall, most
Districts reported a moderation of expectations among their
manufacturing contacts.  Hiring at manufacturing firms continued to vary by District.
Kansas City said that fewer plant managers were planning to
hire, while the St. Louis District reported plans for plant
expansions later in the year. The Dallas District cited
particular strength in  food production , citing contacts who said
they planned to add several new workers. However, makers of food
products in the Philadelphia District noted a falloff in demand.
Cleveland and Chicago noted that automobile production remained
a source of strength, with contacts from the Chicago District
reporting that there was an increase in research and development
activity.  Nonfinancial Services  Demand for nonfinancial services was generally stable to
slightly stronger since the previous report. Richmond noted that
revenue improvement was strong among professional, scientific,
and technical firms. Strength in energy, legal, and audit-
related services was noted in the Dallas District. Advertisers
in the Philadelphia and San Francisco Districts reported strong
revenues, and consulting and advertising contacts in the Boston
District noted steady activity. Richmond and San Francisco
reported that restaurants were busy, while food service contacts
in Atlanta reported that demand had softened a bit.  Transportation contacts reported that activity was generally
positive. In the Atlanta and Dallas Districts, rail contacts
reported strong shipments of petroleum and motor vehicles and
equipment. The Richmond District reported increases in port
activity with container volumes and tonnage at or near record
levels. Input from logistics and trucking contacts was mixed.
The Cleveland and Atlanta Districts noted softening volumes and
less-robust forecasts for the remainder of the year. Kansas
City’s report cited an uptick in trucking activity, while San
Francisco’s report cited moderating growth in trucking.  Banking and Financial Services  Overall loan demand grew modestly in most Districts. New York
indicated no change, while Richmond observed flat-to-weakening
loan demand. Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco
noted increased commercial and industrial lending, but lending
in that sector decreased somewhat in the New York District and
was characterized as soft in Cleveland and Atlanta. Most
Districts reported an increase in mortgage lending, with Dallas
noting especially strong demand and a healthy backlog of loans.
Refinancing of  mortgage loans  was steady or increasing in New
York, Cleveland, Richmond, and Chicago, but Philadelphia noted a
recent slowdown. Kansas City and Dallas noted some improvement
in lending for agriculture and commercial real estate. The
Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts observed
steady-to-increasing demand for  consumer credit , especially for
auto loans, while consumer loan demand was somewhat weaker in
Kansas City and little changed in Cleveland.  Contacts in the New York, Richmond and Kansas City Districts
reported that credit standards remained largely unchanged.
Cleveland reported some loosening of auto lending guidelines,
while San Francisco indicated credit standards were somewhat
restrictive for businesses and consumer loans. Philadelphia,
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco noted general
improvements in  credit quality . Delinquency rates held steady or
declined in the New York and Cleveland Districts. Banking
contacts in the Cleveland, Atlanta, Dallas, and San Francisco
Districts noted stiff competition for quality loan customers.
The Chicago District noted uncertainty over the effects of U.S.
fiscal policy actions was reducing their customers’ demand for
credit. Likewise, Dallas reported a slightly more pessimistic
outlook than the previous  Beige Book  due in part to European
debt issues and regulatory and political uncertainty.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Agricultural conditions were mixed since the previous report.
Several Districts noted areas of increased drought resulting in
stress to crops and livestock, while rainfall provided needed
moisture to parts of the Atlanta District. With high heat and
drought cited as the cause, the Chicago and Kansas City
Districts reported concerns for their corn and soybean crops,
while the Minneapolis District reported that favorable weather
conditions contributed to their corn and soybean crops doing
well. The Kansas City and Dallas Districts reported drought-
stressed pasture conditions, although the Dallas District noted
much better crop conditions than this time last year. The St.
Louis and Kansas City Districts reported better-than-expected
yields for the winter wheat crop nearing completion. The San
Francisco District noted further sales growth for many crop and
livestock products, attributed in part to overseas growth, but
suggested that this source of growth was decreasing. The Kansas
City District cited rising export demand as the reason some hog
producers expanded production. Agricultural price reports were
mixed. While June corn prices were reported down on a year-over-
year basis, reports of corn crop deterioration was noted by the
Chicago and Kansas City Districts as having pushed corn prices
sharply higher since the end of June.  Several Districts reported that energy exploration activity had
increased, with offshore prospects being aided by recent lease
sales. Regions where coal production is prevalent noted that
extraction had decreased over the last year with electricity
generation shifting to natural gas. Contacts in many Districts
shared expectations that natural  gas prices  will remain low in
the near future. Corn producing regions reported that ethanol
processing had decreased in response to the higher corn prices.  Employment, Wages, and Prices  Employment levels grew at a tepid pace for most Districts since
the last report. The Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Chicago, and
Dallas Districts said employment levels were flat to up
slightly, with most contacts citing U.S. fiscal policy
uncertainty or weak demand for their conservative approach to
hiring. Kansas City said employers were reluctant to increase
wages or hire full-time staff until economic uncertainty
diminishes. A Richmond District employment agency contact noted
an increase in temporary employment turning into permanent
positions since the last report. The Atlanta District noted some
smaller chain stores with low price points were expanding and
hiring at a significant pace. Several Districts noted that
employers were having difficulty filling highly skilled
positions.  Many Districts noted that wage pressures were minimal since the
last report. Wage increases were mostly concentrated in highly
skilled workers in information technology, health care,
transportation, some professional services, and highly skilled
manufacturing workers, according to reports from the Atlanta,
Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas Districts.  Price inflation was modest across most areas of the country.
Lower input prices for various commodities were mentioned across
most Districts and resulted in expectations of stable input
prices in the coming months. Retailers and manufacturers in the
Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas Districts noted a decline in
cotton prices. Manufacturers in the Cleveland, Chicago, Kansas
City, and Dallas Districts mentioned that steel and scrap metal
prices have moderated. The decline in energy prices was
mentioned in the Atlanta, Chicago, and Dallas reports as
contributing to lower cost expectations. However, contractors
and building contacts in the Philadelphia, Richmond, and Kansas
City Districts noted increases in the cost of building supply
materials. Richmond contractors said they were able to pass
these costs through, but homebuilders in Philadelphia mentioned
limited ability to do so.  * Prepared at the  Federal Reserve  Bank of Atlanta and based on
information collected before July 9, 2012. This document
summarizes comments received from businesses and other contacts
outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on the views
of Federal Reserve officials. 