-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT--DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy grew at a moderate pace over the
past six weeks. Overall manufacturing activity continued to
expand. Demand for business services remained solid, and
transportation services activity increased. Respondents said
retail sales grew at a somewhat slower pace than the last
report, and automobile sales held steady. The housing sector
continued to improve, and commercial real estate leasing
activity held steady. Financial firms noted mixed loan demand.
Overall energy activity remained strong, although gas-directed
drilling continued to decline. Agricultural conditions
deteriorated slightly. Employment levels were steady to slightly
higher, and prices were mostly unchanged. Wage pressures
remained minimal. Outlooks across industries were generally
positive, but some respondents expressed concern about European
debt issues, U.S. political uncertainty, and healthcare costs.  Prices  Most responding firms said prices were unchanged from the last
reporting period. However, accounting firms noted a modest rise
in rates, airlines reported higher fares, and some construction-
related manufacturers said they were able to raise selling
prices as a result of improved demand. Overall, input costs were
flat to down, with reports of lower prices for cotton, scrap
metal, and steel. The recent decline in fuel prices lowered
costs for airlines and freight transportation firms.  The price of WTI ranged from around $83 per barrel in early June
to near $85 in early July. Natural gas prices remained depressed
but rose 50 cents to around $2.85 per thousand cubic feet over
the same period. The price of gasoline declined about 40 cents
over the reporting period. Prices for several petrochemical
products fell sharply due in part to softening global demand.  Labor Market  Most responding firms said employment levels were flat to up
slightly. Staffing firms reported demand remained steady at very
high levels and noted rising demand for financial analysts,
steel and metal fabricators, and construction workers. Reports
of hiring came from some retailers, automobile dealers, and
primary metals, lumber, paper, and food manufacturers. Wage
pressures remained minimal, although legal contacts said raises
and bonuses had improved, and rising wages were noted for
manufacturing workers with specialized skills such as machine
operators.  Manufacturing  Overall demand for construction-related products held steady
since the last report, and respondents’ outlooks have become
slightly more guarded. Producers of stone, clay, and glass
reported improved demand and higher capacity utilization rates
compared to earlier in the year. Contacts in the lumber industry
noted a pickup in demand, while primary metals manufacturers
reported slight declines. Producers of fabricated metals
reported steady sales activity, but said they were concerned
about the continuity of some private projects.  Conditions weakened in the high-tech manufacturing sector since
the last report. Most respondents said growth in orders slowed
or remained flat largely due to a weakening global economy and
more uncertainty in outlooks. Contacts said that inventories
were close to desired levels and that employment levels were
stable. High-tech manufacturers expect growth to remain flat or
weaken slightly--a change from earlier in the year when most
contacts expected a pickup in the second half.  Demand for paper products held steady, and contacts said they
expect modest sales growth for the year. Food producers said
sales activity increased over the past six weeks and orders were
up significantly from year-ago levels. One food manufacturer
reported adding several new workers in part due to strong
demand. Automobile and aviation equipment manufacturers said
demand held steady since the last report. Expectations are for
seasonal pickup in automobile sales over the summer, but
aviation manufacturers expect sales to remain flat.  Petrochemicals producers reported a sharp decline in prices due
to softening global demand, lower feedstock prices, and capacity
coming back online following unplanned outages earlier in the
year. Still, margins have remained relatively healthy for
ethylene and polyethylene producers. Domestic demand for PVC,
tied to residential construction, strengthened, and exports
continued to be a major source of sales. Contacts noted
inventories of gasoline and distillates were below normal, and
Gulf Coast refineries were operating at rates above 90 percent
in order to catch up.  Retail Sales  Retail sales increased but the pace of growth decelerated
slightly compared to earlier in the year. Sales of apparel,
bedding, household items, and small furniture fared well.
Discount retailers said sales of food and sundries continued to
perform the strongest. Overall sales growth in the Eleventh
District continued to outpace the nation, on average, according
to three large retailers. Outlooks are cautiously optimistic and
contacts say it appears as if the environment has improved
slightly for the consumer.  Automobile sales continued to grow at a steady pace. Inventories
were at desired levels and prices remained stable. Auto dealers
expect sales growth to continue at the same pace through year
end.  Services  Demand for staffing services remained steady at very high
levels, and contacts noted an increase in orders for financial
analysts, construction workers, and steel and metal fabricators.
Outlooks were mostly positive but slightly more cautious than
the last report. Accounting firms noted a seasonal slowdown in
demand. Demand for energy and audit-related services increased
modestly while advisory, transactional, and tax services
activity softened slightly. Legal firms reported a pickup in
demand, with continued strength in real estate, intellectual
property, energy, and tax-related services.  Reports from transportation service firms were positive.
Railroads noted a slight increase in shipments, with
particularly strong growth in petroleum products, motor vehicles
and equipment, crushed stone, and metals. Air cargo, container,
and small parcel shipments increased modestly during the
reporting period. Airlines reported stable passenger demand over
the past six weeks. Domestic demand remained strong buoyed by
both corporate and leisure travel. Demand for international
travel was strongest for travel to  South America  and  Mexico .
Airlines expect passenger demand to soften in the fall and ramp
back up over the holiday season.  Construction and Real Estate  Contacts in the single-family housing industry said demand
picked up over the past six weeks. Respondents noted that demand
was outstripping supply in some areas, leading to falling
inventories. Construction activity was picking up as result.
Realtors and builders remained cautiously optimistic. Apartment
market respondents continued to report solid demand. While
rental rates continued to rise, the pace slowed slightly.
Apartment construction activity is expected to pick up in coming
months.  Commercial real estate leasing activity remained steady since
the last report. Energy and technology sectors continue to drive
demand for space, particularly in Houston. Contacts were
optimistic but remained concerned about the pace of U.S.
economic activity.  Financial Services  Overall, financial firms reported mixed loan demand. National
banks said middle-market lending declined, while auto and energy
lending activity remained positive. Regional and community banks
noted improvement in C&I and commercial real estate lending.
Consumer lending appeared to be steady, with strong mortgage
demand and a healthy backlog of loans in the pipeline. Loan
pricing remained competitive at very low rates. The quality of
outstanding loans continued to improve slowly and deposit growth
was mixed. Outlooks are slightly more pessimistic than the last
report in part due to European debt issues and regulatory and
political uncertainty.  Energy  Respondents at energy-related firms said activity remained
strong, and the District rig count grew modestly over the past
six weeks. The rapid shift from dry-gas drilling to oil-directed
drilling has not reduced the overall pace of activity, and
business remains strong with long lead times and growing
backlogs. Activity in the  Gulf of Mexico  increased further, and
the success of a recent auction of offshore acreage suggests
continued interest in the region.  Agriculture  Agricultural conditions deteriorated slightly due to hot and dry
weather. Planting neared completion and crops were mostly in
fair to good shape, with conditions much better than a year ago.
Since the last report, livestock producers have seen pastures
dry out, cattle prices fall, and feed costs increase. Crop
prices generally increased over the past six weeks, particularly
for corn, although cotton prices fell sharply. 