-- U.S. Urges Sudan, South Sudan to Talk or Face Economic Turmoil
-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-07-18T09:06:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-urges-sudan-south-sudan-to-talk-or-face-economic-turmoil.html
Sudan  and South Sudan must build on
recent talks between their leaders to resolve disputes that
brought them to the brink of war this year or face a “rapid
downward economic spiral,” the U.S.’s top Africa diplomat said.  President  Salva Kiir ’s meeting with Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir on July 14 in  Addis Ababa  was a “significant” step
toward reaching an accord on outstanding issues including oil-
transit fees and disputed territory, Assistant Secretary of
State for African Affairs Johnnie Carson said in an interview in
 Ethiopia ’s capital yesterday.  “Both of these countries face extremely bleak economic
futures if they in fact do not reach political settlements on
the differences that divide them,” he said. “Time is running
out as the economic clock winds down.”  South Sudan seceded from Sudan in July 2011, taking with it
about 75 percent of Sudan’s oil production. In January, South
Sudan halted 350,000 barrels a day of crude shipments because of
a disagreement on how much it should pay for the fuel to be
transported via a pipeline to a Sudanese port on the  Red Sea .
South Sudan also accused Bashir’s government of stealing $815
million worth of crude. Sudan said it was confiscated to pay
transportation fees.  Sudan’s government has faced protests since June 16, after
it raised transportation and fuel prices, boosted taxes and
devalued its currency to cope with the loss of oil revenue.
Inflation jumped to 37.2 percent amid rising food costs.  South Sudan relies on oil for 98 percent of its government
revenue. Inflation in the East African nation surged to 79.5
percent in May.  Sanctions Threat  On May 2, the  United Nations Security Council  threatened to
impose sanctions if the two countries fail to resolve their
disputes within three months. African Union-mediated talks are
continuing in the Ethiopian city of Bahir Dar. Negotiations will
go on until the Aug. 2 deadline, Pagan Amum, the south’s chief
negotiator, said on July 14.  Negotiators from both countries were “empowered” by their
presidents’ meeting to “make progression on key issues,”
Carson said.  Both sides are determined to reach a deal, Amum said.
“Both of these countries can in fact do better, but the route
remains trough political solutions and the will and commitment
of both sides to reach political agreements,” he said.  Civil War  South Sudan  gained independence after a referendum based on
a 2005 peace accord. The agreement was intended to end a civil
war that lasted for almost 50 years, except for a cease-fire
from 1972 to 1983, between the Muslim north and the south, where
Christianity and traditional religions dominate. About 2 million
people died in the second phase of the conflict.  The countries almost resumed their conflict in April as the
talks collapsed. Sudanese fighter jets launched air strikes
inside South Sudanese territory, while the southern army
occupied and then withdrew from Heglig, a contested area that
accounts for half of Sudan’s oil output.  China National Petroleum Corp.,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam
Nasional Bhd. and  India ’s ONGC Videsh Ltd. operate most of the
 oil wells  in the two countries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  