-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   TWELFTH DISTRICT-SAN FRANCISCO  Summary  Twelfth District economic activity expanded at a modest pace
during the reporting period of June through the beginning of
July. Upward price pressures eased somewhat and remained quite
contained overall, and upward wage pressures were limited. Sales
of retail items rose a bit, and demand grew for most business
and consumer services. District manufacturing activity increased
slightly on balance. Demand continued to expand for agricultural
producers, while activity was largely unchanged for providers of
energy resources. Sales and construction activity edged up in
District housing markets, and demand strengthened slightly for
commercial real estate. Contacts from financial institutions
reported a small increase in overall loan demand and slight
improvements in  credit quality  and availability.  Wages and Prices  Upward price pressures were very modest during the reporting
period. Price declines were noted for selected raw materials and
energy inputs, especially gasoline. The declines in selected
input costs combined with robust competition among firms in most
sectors to hold down final prices for a wide range of retail
goods and services. Looking ahead, most contacts expect prices
for their products to remain largely unchanged through the
balance of the year.  Upward wage pressures were limited to a few worker groups,
although some contacts pointed to more general increases in the
costs of pension plans and other employee benefits. Wage gains
continued to be held down by high levels of unemployment and
tepid demand for new workers. The most pronounced gains were
reported for workers with specialized skills in the application
of information technologies, along with selected narrow groups
of skilled manufacturing workers.  Retail Trade and Services  Retail sales expanded a bit further overall. Modest sales gains
were reported for discount chains as well as traditional
department stores, and inventories generally were at or near
desired levels given the pace of sales. However, some contacts
reported growing concern about a softening of demand in the
high-end segment of the market. Demand remained largely flat for
retailers of home furnishings and major appliances, as declines
in television sales offset increases for flooring and
appliances. Similarly, demand stayed largely stable for grocers
as consumers remained focused on necessities. The sales pace for
new automobiles stayed high, bolstered in part by pent-up demand
for Japanese brands whose inventories have returned to normal
after being constrained by last year’s natural disaster in that
country.  Demand for most business and consumer services grew further.
Activity continued to expand at a solid pace for transportation
services such as trucking, although contacts noted that the pace
of growth has slowed somewhat in recent months. Sales grew
modestly for providers of technology services, as continued
weakness in demand from  Europe  partly offset growth elsewhere.
Advertising revenues rose for radio and television broadcasters,
with additional gains expected in the second half of the year.
By contrast, providers of professional services such as legal
and accounting reported that activity was flat. Demand picked up
a bit for restaurants and other food-service providers and
continued to trend up in the travel and tourism industry:
contacts in  Hawaii  and  Southern California  reported further
gains in visitor volumes and hotel occupancy rates and decreased
reliance on price discounting.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity rose a bit further on balance
during the reporting period of June through the beginning of
July. Manufacturers of semiconductors and other technology
products noted continued high rates of capacity utilization and
sales but also some emerging softness in demand. For makers of
commercial aircraft and parts, an extensive order backlog and
additional new orders kept production rates near capacity.
Demand for steel was mostly stable at somewhat low levels, and
activity weakened a bit for processed scrap metal as a result of
a decline in overseas demand. Conditions remained robust in the
pharmaceutical manufacturing sector. For petroleum refiners,
capacity utilization rates were largely stable, as growing
export sales offset subdued domestic demand.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Demand for agricultural products expanded further, while
extraction activity for energy resources was mostly unchanged.
Final sales and orders grew for many crop and livestock
products. This was stimulated in part by continued growth in
overseas exports, although the reports suggested that this
source of growth is on the wane. Contacts noted modest declines
for input costs, particularly for energy and other petroleum-
based products. For energy resources, contacts reported little
change in extraction activity for oil and natural gas.  Real Estate and Construction  Home demand in the District improved modestly overall, and
demand for commercial real estate ticked up on net. The sales
pace for new and existing homes grew a bit further in many
areas, although it stayed well below its historical average.
Improvements in the pace of sales helped to reduce the inventory
of available homes, prompting additional modest expansion of
home construction activity. Similarly, strong demand for rental
space spurred further increases in construction of multifamily
units. Looking ahead, most contacts expect home sales and prices
to improve a bit further during the second half of the year.
Demand for commercial real estate inched up, as reflected in
slight declines in office and industrial vacancy rates in some
parts of the District. Growth in the technology sector continued
to support improving demand for nonresidential real estate in
the San Francisco Bay Area and Seattle markets, although the
pace of improvement has slowed of late, with contacts noting a
recent decline in rental inquiries for vacant properties.  Financial Institutions  District banking contacts reported that loan demand grew a bit
during the reporting period. Although most businesses remained
highly cautious in their capital spending plans and attitudes
toward debt financing, the volume of new commercial and
industrial loans expanded further. Demand for  consumer credit 
grew on net, especially for auto loans. Reports continued to
indicate stiff competition among lenders to provide credit to
well-qualified small and medium-sized businesses, placing
downward pressure on rates and fees. Contacts also noted
additional improvements in overall credit quality and
availability, although lending standards remained somewhat
restrictive for most business and consumer loans. 