-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District--  Kansas City .  TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY  The Tenth District economy expanded moderately in June. Consumer
spending was stronger than expected due to stronger automobile
sales and a solid start to summer tourism. Commercial and
residential real estate prices rose with stronger sales, and
District contacts were optimistic regarding future sales and
construction activity. Led by mortgage loan activity, some
District banks reported improvements in loan demand and quality.
District manufacturing activity edged up and additional gains in
production, orders, and capital spending were expected in the
coming months. Expanding drought conditions hindered crop
development and drove crop prices higher. District oil and
natural gas drilling activity held at peak levels but was
expected to ease with lower global demand. The price of raw
materials for manufacturing rose at a slower pace compared to
previous surveys and finished goods prices generally held
steady. Wage pressures were subdued except for positions in
transportation, high-tech and energy industries.  Consumer Spending . Consumer spending improved with stronger than
expected sales in June and was expected to strengthen further in
the coming months. District retailers reported increased sales,
particularly for seasonal items, mid-priced appliances, apparel,
and fashion accessories. Several high-end retailers, however,
commented that economic uncertainty had slowed demand for luxury
items. Auto sales climbed sharply and were expected to remain
solid for the next few months with more dealers offering sales
incentives and discounts. Fuel-efficient cars sold well, while
demand for large, expensive cars and trucks remained weak.
Restaurant sales increased more than expected as both the number
of diners and average check amounts edged up in June. Tourism
activity ramped up with the start of the summer vacation season,
though wildfires in  Colorado  hurt traffic in the Rocky Mountain
region. District hotel owners reported a sharp rise in occupancy
at higher average room rates and expected bookings to remain
strong during the next three months.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity. Manufacturing and
transportation activity edged up in June and sales at high-tech
service firms rose modestly. Following a moderate rebound in
May, District factory activity edged higher in June and remained
well above year-ago levels, with stronger production at food
processing and aircraft manufacturers. The volume of new orders
fell in June but was expected to rebound and provide a moderate
boost to production during the next six months. A rise in the
volume of shipments reduced order backlogs and trimmed finished
goods inventories.  Capital spending  held steady, but fewer plant
managers were hiring as the average work week declined. Most
manufacturers indicated that the economic situation in  Europe 
indirectly affected business activity by increasing the
uncertainty surrounding global economic conditions and future
demand. After easing in the last survey period, transportation
activity picked up, particularly in the trucking industry. A
modest rise in sales at high-tech firms fell short of
expectations but several companies anticipated stronger sales in
the months ahead.  Real Estate and Construction. Stronger residential home sales
reduced home inventories and commercial construction activity
grew in June. A sharp increase in home sales reduced home
inventories, particularly for low- and mid-priced houses.
Stronger sales supported a moderate increase in  home prices  and
real estate contacts expected additional sales and price gains
during the next three months. Residential mortgage lenders saw
an upswing in loan applications for home purchases while home
loan refinancing activity was stable. Sales at construction
supply firms remained solid and some building materials were in
short supply. Builders, however, reported a lull in new home
starts following the spring construction rush, but building
activity was expected to pick up during the next three months.
After climbing during the last survey period, new commercial
construction edged up and was expected to rise further with more
projects in the planning stages. Commercial real estate prices
firmed with stronger sales activity, and real estate contacts
noted owners were making fewer concessions to facilitate deals.
Commercial real estate rents rose as vacancy rates fell further.
Developers reported little change in access to credit.  Banking. In the recent survey period, some District bankers
reported modest improvements in loan demand and loan quality
with little change in deposit levels. In general, loan demand
rose moderately, led by gains in residential  mortgage loans  and
slight upticks in both commercial real estate and agricultural
loan demand. Bankers reported steady commercial and industrial
loan activity at slightly lower  interest rates  and a few bankers
reported weaker consumer installment loan demand. Some bankers
noted that loan quality improved moderately over the past month
with addition quality improvements expected over the next six
months. Credit standards remained largely unchanged in all major
loan categories and bank deposits held steady.  Agriculture. Agricultural growing conditions deteriorated
substantially since the last survey period as drought spread
across the District. Extremely hot, dry weather hindered crop
development and more than half of the District’s corn and
soybean crops were rated in fair or worse condition. Crop prices
rose sharply as intensifying drought and few prospects of
precipitation cut corn and soybean yield forecasts. The winter
wheat harvest was nearly complete with better than expected
yields in some regions. To preserve drought-stressed pastures,
some cattle ranchers were considering selling feeder calves
early, especially with high feeder cattle prices. Losses mounted
for feedlot operators as feed costs soared. Rising export demand
enticed some hog producers to expand production. Strong farm and
nonfarm investor demand drove farmland prices higher.  Energy. District energy activity held at historically high
levels in June but was expected to ease in the coming months.
The number of active oil and natural gas rigs in the District
held steady with a rise in active oil rigs offsetting declines
in active natural gas rigs. Some business contacts expected
drilling activity to slow with current supplies adequate to
satisfy summer demand, especially if economic uncertainty in
Europe trims global demand and keeps  oil prices  below spring
highs. In contrast, a few District contacts expected a slight
uptick in natural  gas prices  as hot weather boosted demand for
electric power generated by natural gas.  Wyoming ’s coal
production fell further as some electricity production shifted
from coal to natural gas. District ethanol production slowed as
rising corn prices and lower gasoline prices cut profits at
ethanol firms.  Wages and Prices. Wage pressures remained subdued during the
survey period, raw materials prices edged up, and finished goods
prices generally held steady. Many firms were reluctant to
increase wages or hire new staff until economic uncertainty
diminishes. Some businesses, however, were offering higher
salaries to recruit workers with specialized skills such as
engineers, software developers, mechanics, and commercial truck
drivers. Some transportation companies charged less for freight
hauling in light of reduced fuel costs. The cost of raw
materials for manufacturing rose at a slower pace compared to
previous survey periods and most finished goods prices remained
stable. Retailers held selling prices steady and did not
anticipate raising prices during the next three months.
Restaurant owners, however, planned to increase menu prices due
to high food costs. High occupancy rates prompted hotel
operators to raise average room rates. Builders and construction
supply companies noted rising prices for some construction
materials, particularly drywall and asphalt shingles. 