-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  Eighth District - St. Louis  Summary  The economy of the Eighth District has continued to expand at a
modest pace since the previous survey. Residential real estate
market conditions have continued to improve moderately.
Similarly, commercial real estate market conditions have also
improved. Recent reports of planned activity from manufacturing
firms have been positive. However, reports from services
contacts have been mixed. Overall lending at a sample of small
and mid-sized District banks increased slightly from mid-March
to mid-June.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive
since our previous report. Several manufacturers reported plans
to open plants and expand operations in the near future, while a
smaller number of contacts reported plans to decrease operations
and lay off workers. Firms in auto, appliance, wall coverings,
stone wool insulation, food, construction machinery, factory
components, and packaging and label manufacturing reported plans
to hire new workers, expand operations, and build new plants. In
contrast, a window coverings manufacturing firm reported plans
to lay off workers.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector
have been mixed since our previous report. Firms in medical
transportation services, waste management services, and business
support services, as well as a nonprofit organization, announced
plans to expand operations and hire new workers. In contrast,
contacts in newspaper publishing, telecommunications services,
educational services, and a firm in merchant transaction
services announced plans to lay off workers. General retailers
have reported stronger sales recently, while auto dealers have
reported year-over-year increases in sales, especially in
certain foreign and luxury brands.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales increased throughout most of the Eighth District on a
year-over-year basis. Compared with the same period in 2011, May
2012 year-to-date home sales were up 15 percent in Louisville, 7
percent in  Little Rock , 21 percent in  Memphis , and 19 percent in
St. Louis. Residential construction increased in the majority of
the District over the same period. May 2012 year-to-date single-
family housing permits increased in the majority of the District
metro areas compared with the same period in 2011. Permits
increased 45 percent in Louisville, 26 percent in Little Rock,
41 percent in Memphis, and 25 percent in St. Louis.  Commercial and industrial real estate conditions continued to
improve moderately throughout most of the District. A contact in
northwest  Arkansas  reported strong commercial and industrial
real estate activity, while a contact noted weak demand for
office space in the Fayetteville area. A contact in Louisville
reported strong leasing activity for premium-quality  office
space  in Louisville’s central business district, while office
vacancy rates were mixed in other submarkets in Louisville. A
contact reported decreases in office and industrial vacancy
rates in downtown St. Louis. A contact in northeast Arkansas
reported strong office leasing activity in the Jonesboro area.
Commercial and industrial construction activity also continued
to improve moderately throughout most of the District. Contacts
in St. Louis reported some new commercial and large industrial
construction projects. Contacts in Memphis reported that a few
large commercial and industrial construction projects are under
way in Shelby County.  Banking and Finance  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and mid-sized
District banks increased 0.7 percent from mid-March to mid-June.
Real estate lending, which accounts for 73.3 percent of total
loans, increased 0.6 percent. Commercial and industrial loans,
accounting for 15.8 percent of total loans, decreased 2.0
percent. Loans to individuals, accounting for 4.7 percent of
total loans, increased 0.3 percent. All other loans, accounting
for 6.2 percent of total loans, increased 9.7 percent. During
this period, total deposits at these banks decreased 0.6
percent.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  As of the end of June, the majority of cotton, corn, soybean,
sorghum, and rice crop conditions were rated as fair or better
in all District states with the exception of sorghum crop
conditions in  Illinois . Winter wheat harvests were either
complete or close to completion, and more than 88 percent of the
crop conditions were rated as fair or better. However, the
fraction of pasture and range in good condition or better
decreased in all District states since the previous report. The
District’s year-to-date coal production for the end of June was
4.8 percent higher compared with the same period last year.
However, the District’s coal production for June 2012 was 5
percent lower than in June 2011. 