-- U.S. Public-Pension Shortfall $4.6 Trillion, Group Says
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n
-- 2012-07-18T18:50:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-public-pension-shortfall-4-6-trillion-budget-group-says.html
U.S. public pensions are $4.6
trillion short of the amount of assets needed to cover projected
liabilities, an advocacy group said. That’s more than twice what
Moody’s Investors Service estimated this month.  The average plan is 41 percent funded, State Budget
Solutions said in a report today. The Alexandria, Virginia,
group’s partners include the American Legislative Exchange
Council, which advocates “conservative public policy
solutions,” the Freedom Foundation and the State Policy
Network, which is composed of “free-market think tanks.”  State Budget Solutions said that taxpayers must make up the
difference between  investment performance  and promised benefits.
The group, using its report to advocate pension cuts, called the
gap “a hole that will overtake local and state governments.”  “Without government actions, states, counties, cities and
towns all over America will go bankrupt,” Bob Williams,
president of State Budget Solutions, said in the release.
“Failing to understand the scope of the pension crisis sets
taxpayers up for a bigger catastrophe in the future.”  Pension projections differ because of varying assumptions.
State Budget Solutions said its liability figure is higher than
others published recently because funds’ calculations depend on
“politicians’ guesses.”  Happy Thoughts  Public pensions have relied on investment return
assumptions averaging 8 percent, a level that  Fitch Ratings  said
today is “optimistic.”  The California Public Employees Retirement System’s report
this week of a 1 percent return for the fiscal year ended June
30 was “well below” the 7.5 percent return the system uses to
calculate its condition, Fitch said.  “Continued weak performance of pensions’ investment
portfolios is likely to underscore the need for additional
changes to benefits, contribution policies and assumptions
including the investment-return assumption,” Fitch said.  Moody’s, which rates debt in the $3.7 trillion municipal
market, said in a July 2 report that unfunded liabilities of
state and local pensions are $2 trillion, which it said was
three times the total reported by governments.  State Budget Solutions said its calculations, based on
“fair market value and risk-free investment returns,” were
done by  Andrew Biggs , a former principal deputy commissioner for
the  Social Security Administration , who is now a resident
scholar at the Washington-based  American Enterprise Institute ,
which advocates free enterprise.  Budget cuts in  Washington  may put added pressure on state
governments already strained by employee pensions and rising
health-care costs, a group of former government officials led by
former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  said a separate
report yesterday. That report put unfunded pension liabilities
at $3 trillion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Darrell Preston in Dallas at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  