-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 2 1 4 6 5 0 ]   A l e x   T a n z i   [ ]
-- 2012-07-18T18:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT-RICHMOND  Overview. Fifth District contacts provided mixed reports on
economic activity since our last assessment. Retailers reported
strengthening in  consumer spending  over the last month, and non-
retail firms cited increased activity, despite end-of-June power
outages caused by severe storms. Bookings remained solid
according to tourism contacts, even as vacationers continued to
hunt for bargains. Residential real estate was described as
slightly improved overall, although many areas continued to
experience weakness. Additionally, contacts at District ports
noted some improvement in both import and export volumes in
recent months. In contrast, manufacturers reported a marked
weakening in orders and shipments in June, following
strengthening earlier this year. Employment agencies cited a
slight slowdown in demand for workers, with the notable
exception of high-skill occupations. Some softening also
occurred in commercial construction in recent months, mostly
concentrated on the government side of the market, with private
demand remaining generally unchanged. Most lenders reported flat
or weakening demand for loans; however, a few bankers noted a
pickup in mortgage and small business lending. Price change was
modest, although retail prices increased somewhat more rapidly
than earlier.  Manufacturing. District manufacturing weakened in June,
following six months of moderate expansion. A manufacturer of
industrial machinery reported that business had slowed during
the last month and that major customers were withholding
payments. A producer of gas turbines said that economic problems
in  Europe  had reduced his company’s exports by fifty percent. A
textile producer noted that his company had reduced capacity at
a District plant by approximately twenty percent due to
decreased demand from domestic customers. Backlogs of orders had
gone from four weeks to day-by-day, according to a modular home
manufacturer. He added that his company was not in a position to
raise prices to keep up with costs. A producer of electrical
equipment mentioned that orders had decreased noticeably during
the last month, and that several large customers had scaled back
their order projections due to recent economic uncertainty. In
addition, several aerospace manufacturers said that airlines
were making money but were not adding capacity. Our latest
manufacturing survey indicated that prices of raw materials and
finished goods grew more slowly over the past month.  Port activity in the District has continued to improve. Several
contacts reported that both the number of containers and total
tonnage were at or near record levels. One official stated that
recent import growth, led by autos and paper products, has been
closing the gap with the solid pace of export growth at his
port. Imports of auto parts and assembled autos were also
helping push some ports to record levels. Port officials noted
that imports of machinery had increased, and exports of
agricultural equipment were showing unusual strength for this
time of year. One port official noted a slight softening in
May’s trade activity, which was not expected to continue. A
contact reported that freight carriers were having limited
success sustaining recently announced rate hikes, due to excess
shipping capacity in the industry.  Retail. Sales among District retailers strengthened since our
last report, buttressed by big-ticket purchases. Spending picked
up for construction-related items, computers, and big-ticket
items at home and garden stores. Sales of automobiles also rose,
according most dealers we contacted. However, shopper traffic
generally waned, according to our most recent survey, and
inventory accumulation picked up. Distributors of non-durable
goods and building materials merchants reported improved
revenues since our last report. Grocery wholesalers also saw
revenue gains. The store manager of a large sporting goods
establishment noted that sales were up, even with less traffic.
He commented that cotton prices had declined, although freight
shippers continued to apply gas surcharges. Large areas of the
mid-Atlantic lost power for up to a week following strong storms
at the end of June; a retailer in the Richmond area reported
having to place extra orders for generators as his stock
depleted. He noted that bottled water sold out quickly, and
sales of battery operated lights and flashlights rose sharply.
Retail prices increased at a somewhat faster pace since our last
report.  Services. Non-retail services providers reported stable to
slightly greater revenue gains in recent weeks. In our most
recent survey, revenue improvement was strongest among
professional, scientific, and technical firms. A financial
services broker in central  Virginia  cited stable demand, but
also noted a general nervousness among his clients regarding
“the European situation.” Healthcare services providers
generally reported little change in demand. Following the
 Supreme Court ’s healthcare decision, organizations continued to
prepare for upcoming changes. A restaurant owner stated that the
recent  power outage  cost him “some product,” and reservations
dropped because his phones were down for several days. Price
increases at services-providing firms slowed in recent weeks.  Finance. We received varied reports on loan demand since our
last assessment. Characteristic of many anecdotes, a Maryland
banker described his lending activity as “very slow, very flat,”
with most loans going to refinancing. A loan officer in North
Carolina indicated that, while his pipeline was slowing, real
estate loan applications for construction projects had improved
and even mortgage applications were beginning to “show some
life.” An official for a large bank noted modest growth in new
loans that were mostly from home buyers and small businesses,
while consumer installment loans were down. A banker in western
Virginia stated that loan demand for capital improvements from
local governments was increasing as federal stimulus funds run
out. Finally, an official for a midsize commercial bank reported
that his market area seemed to be “moving sideways,” with
borrowers shifting among local banks to get refinancing at lower
rates. Most bankers described their lending standards as
unchanged, although one lender noted that competitive pressures
for commercial loans had caused some easing in standards to
capture high-quality loans.  Real Estate. Residential real estate activity improved slightly
since our last report. A Realtor in the  Charlotte  area said that
homes in the mid-price range were selling quickly in her area
and that prices were rising. An agent in the D.C. area indicated
that properties in the $800,000-plus range were selling somewhat
more quickly, and added that continuing low inventory and low
 interest rates  should contribute to strong sales throughout the
summer. Moreover, a Maryland contact noted that trends in the
housing sector were generally showing some improvement, with
sales and prices rising and active inventory declining. However,
a South Carolina Realtor reported that housing in coastal areas
was not doing well, which he attributed, in part, to an
inventory overhang that was placing downward pressure on prices.
A North Carolina housing agent mentioned that the state had
proposed a cut in  unemployment benefits , which threatened to put
more stress on the slowing housing market.  Commercial construction and real estate activity softened in
recent months. While most construction contacts reported little
change in private sector activity, a solid majority noted a
decline in government demand. A Virginia developer described the
industry as “sliding into a trough” over the last few months and
expected demand to remain weak through the summer and fall.
Several contacts said that retailers who were new to the area
were most often opting to renovate existing sites rather than to
build new stores. A contractor in the D.C. area noted that both
large and small chains were expanding and, in some cases,
building new stores. Several District Realtors noted that
medical office buildings were an exception to the overall
weakness in their markets. A West Virginia Realtor noted a sharp
increase in interest in commercial buildings, but so far has had
little success closing any deals. Contractors reported that the
cost of materials had increased, but they were able to pass
through most of the increases.  Labor Markets. Fifth District labor market activity was slightly
weaker since our last report. Several contacts at employment
agencies characterized demand as somewhat slower, compared to a
year ago, with one agent noting that the “hiring surge” earlier
in the year had slowed. Other employment agents cited strong
demand for workers with high-end IT and manufacturing skills.
For example, a Hagerstown agent said that, while overall demand
for entry-level workers had tapered off, clients were still
looking for middle-management, supervisors and highly skilled
workers. Similarly, a furniture manufacturer reported difficulty
finding skilled employees through temp agencies, which he
attributed to potential workers dropping out of the work force
or signing up for unemployment. However, a contact for an
employment agency in  North Carolina  noted some improvement in
hiring activity, with an increase in temp-to-permanent status.
According to our latest survey, wage gains in both the
manufacturing and service sectors were a bit more widespread
than a month ago.  Tourism. Hoteliers reported solid summer bookings since our last
report. A contact on the outer banks of North Carolina said
tourist activity remained strong following an early “jump-start”
to the vacation season. She noted that restaurants in that
location were busy, but that tips were a bit lower than usual as
families tried to vacation on a smaller budget. Hotel managers
said vacationers continued to seek bargains, and corporate and
military travel had softened in part because of pending
government actions affecting spending decisions. A Virginia
hotel contact reported a massive increase in bookings following
severe storms at the end of June, which caused local power
outages that lasted past the July 4th holiday. 