-- UBS Lists MLP Note After JPMorgan Suspends Shares in Largest ETN
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-07-18T16:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/ubs-lists-mlp-note-after-jpmorgan-suspends-shares-in-largest-etn.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  listed an exchange-traded
note tied to the same index of master-limited partnerships as a
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  security that capped new share issuance
last month.  UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, started trading the ETRACS
 Alerian MLP Index (AMZ)  ETN today under ticker AMU. The note tracks
the Alerian MLP Index, a group of 50 publicly traded companies
that don’t pay federal income taxes and rely on assets, such as
pipelines, to generate  cash flow  for taxable payouts to holders.
The note is the second tied to the gauge.  Demand for notes tied to MLPs has surged as new
technologies such as hydraulic fracturing increase oil and gas
production, Ethan Bellamy, a Robert W. Baird & Co. equity
analyst, said in May. Investors also have flocked to them
because they can require fewer tax filings than investing
directly in partnerships, for which separate tax returns may be
needed in each state a partnership does business, Bellamy said.  “MLPs continue to be a highly-favored asset for investors
seeking attractive yields and relatively low correlation to
other asset classes,” Christopher Yeagley, UBS’s head of U.S.
equity structured products, said in a statement.  JPMorgan limited the creation of shares in its  Alerian MLP
Index ETN (AMU) , the largest U.S. ETN by market value, to 129 million
on June 14. It reached that threshold six days later, raising
concern that the note could become unhinged from its underlying
index, which happened in March with an ETN issued by Credit
Suisse AG.  Pipelines, Ships  The JPMorgan note, which makes up more than 40 percent of
the U.S. ETN market, has added 35 million shares this year, an
increase of 37 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  JPMorgan’s ETN matches the returns from the Alerian index,
which has  returned  13.6 percent the past year, before a 0.85
percent management fee. The UBS security charges 0.8 percent,
according to prospectuses filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission. Master limited partnerships, which trade
publicly, typically invest in assets ranging from pipelines to
ships transporting commodities.  Zurich-based Credit Suisse on Feb. 21 stopped issuing
shares of an ETN tied to the Chicago Board Options Exchange
Volatility Index, known as the VIX. A month later, the TVIX note
began diverging from its underlying index to trade at a premium
of as much as 89 percent. Over two days in March, it lost more
than 50 percent of its value.  The SEC is probing price gyrations in the security, a
person familiar with the matter said in March, asking not to be
identified because the inquiry isn’t public.  ETNs are unsecured bank debt backed by their issuer’s
credit, unlike exchange-traded funds, which hold assets. Banks
create and redeem shares of the notes based on the level of
demand for the securities. That demand typically doesn’t affect
the price since the ETNs track the performance of an index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ; 