-- Ukraine’s Arbuzov Contradicts IMF With Reserves Forecast
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-07-18T11:12:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/ukraine-central-bank-contradicts-imf-with-reserve-boost-forecast.html
Ukraine’s gold and foreign-currency
reserves may grow by year-end should “positive economic
tendencies persist,” the central bank said, putting it at odds
with the  International Monetary Fund , which predicts a decline.  While reserves shrank 4.7 percent to $29.3 billion in June,
the lowest level in two years, the drop was mainly because the
former Soviet republic repaid $600 million of Eurobonds and $1.1
billion loaned to it by Russia’s VTB Group, according to central
bank Governor Serhiy Arbuzov.  “The recent decline in reserves was caused by foreign-debt
repayments, not by Ukraine’s economic situation worsening,”
Arbuzov, 36, said July 17 in an e-mailed response to questions
from Bloomberg. “The central bank managed to increase reserves
at the start of the year by buying foreign currency.”  Ukraine’s  economic growth  is losing steam as demand for
exports such as steel falls amid  Europe ’s debt crisis, while the
government struggles to restart a $15.6 billion bailout program
and trim energy costs. Reserves have dropped from $31.8 billion
in December as policy makers supported the hryvnia and the IMF
forecasts the stash will contract to $24.4 billion by year-end.  Hryvnia, Swaps  The hryvnia plunged 42 percent against the dollar from
September 2008 to January 2010, the second-worst performance
globally, as the recession triggered by  Lehman Brothers Inc .’s
collapse cut export demand and investors offloaded emerging-
market assets.  The currency, which is down 0.4 percent this year, advanced
to 8.0600 as of 2:10 p.m. in the capital, Kiev, from 8.0933 at
yesterday’s close, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on
Ukraine’s government bonds due 2013 fell to 8.526 percent, the
lowest level since May 8.  The cost of insuring government debt against non-payment
for five years using credit-default swaps has surged more than
300 basis points in the last year. The swaps traded 16 points
lower today at 786.  The IMF cited dwindling reserves among “lingering
vulnerabilities” facing Ukraine.  “Gradually increasing  exchange-rate  flexibility would help
mitigate external shocks, strengthen reserves, and preserve
competitiveness,” the Washington-based fund’s executive board
wrote July 6 in a statement.  ‘Artificial’ Peg  The remarks echoed a parliamentary address by President
 Viktor Yanukovych , who said the central bank should abandon the
hryvnia’s “artificial” peg to the dollar and allow the
exchange rate to fluctuate within a corridor to help control
consumer-price growth.  Arbuzov says they are not in a hurry to change policies at
this time.  “Almost-zero inflation gives us no reason to change our
exchange-rate policy immediately,” he said. “Still, a gradual
move toward a flexible exchange rate is set out in our IMF
program, and the central bank will stick to it,” he said,
adding such a shift must be “accompanied by a recovery in
Ukraine’s financial system.”  Consumer prices  fell for a second month in June, dropping
1.2 percent from a year earlier, the state statistics office
said July 6.  Gross domestic product  advanced 2 percent in the
first quarter, slowing from 5.4 percent growth in the same
period a year earlier, according to the office.  ‘Continues Growing’  GDP, which grew 4.4 percent in 2011, advanced 2.5 percent
from a year earlier in the first half, Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  told a weekly government meeting today.  “Despite the negative effect of the global environment and
the recession in the European Union, Ukraine’s economy continues
growing,” Azarov said. “Agriculture production rose 7.4
percent and retail sales jumped by 16 percent.”  The central bank cut its benchmark discount rate by a
quarter-point to 7.5 percent on March 22, the first reduction in
two years. It also reduced reserve requirements for lenders to
spur credit growth.  “Should the inflation situation remain favorable and if
there’s no risk for the hryvnia’s stability, the central bank
will continue with monetary stimulus,” Arbuzov said. “It may
be done by cutting rates. The bank may also lower  reserve
requirements  further.”  The central bank allowed lenders to include 10 percent of
the nominal value of domestic foreign-currency bonds issued by
the government in their required reserves starting June 30,
freeing up about 2 billion hryvnia for banks to channel into
credit, according to Arbuzov.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  