-- Thunder May Signal End of East Coast Heatwave
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-18T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/thunder-may-signal-end-of-east-coast-heatwave.html
Thunder and lightning may herald the
end of the Northeast’s current heat wave today, though 90-degree
Fahrenheit temperatures may return next week and relief for the
parched Midwest doesn’t appear likely.  Temperatures along the East Coast from New Hampshire to
Virginia may be at least 3 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 degrees
Celsius) above normal and even higher in the rain-starved
Midwest from July 23 to July 27, said  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  “Today’s forecast trends hotter for the eastern third of
the U.S. for especially the middle to end of next week,” Rogers
said in a note to clients today. “Another quick spike of heat
centered on Thursday could push the mid-Atlantic into the mid-to
upper 90s briefly.”  The return of 90-degree temperatures may increase energy
demand in the eastern U.S. by 10 percent to 30 percent through
next week, said  David Salmon , owner of Weather Derivatives in
Belton,  Missouri . The forecast for higher temperatures, with a
prediction of a smaller-than-normal increase in stockpiles, has
led gas prices to increase.  Natural gas for August delivery rose 13.7 cents, or 4.9
percent, to $2.933 per million British thermal units at 10:58
a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The futures have
climbed 54 percent since April 19.  Temperatures in  New York City  may reach 96 today, 100 in
 Washington  and 97 in Philadelphia. A cold front, with the
potential of spawning severe thunderstorms, is expected to
arrive late today and bring some relief from the heat.  Severe Thunderstorms  There is a 15 percent chance severe thunderstorms will
develop from the Ohio Valley into New England later today,
including New York, Philadelphia and  Boston , according to the
 Storm Prediction Center  in Norman,  Oklahoma .  Heavy rain, high winds and hail are all possible, according
to the center.  “Thunderstorms are expected to develop by late
morning/early afternoon,” a forecast analysis said. “A tornado
threat is not expected with the primary threats being damaging
winds and hail.”  Tomorrow,  New York ’s high is expected to peak at 88 and be
down to 79 later in the week.  In the Midwest, temperatures are expected to remain at
least 5 degrees above normal through the end of the month and
little rain is expected during that time, according to Commodity
Weather Group.  Heat coupled with a lack of rain will exacerbate drought
conditions that are currently gripping at least 56 percent of
the contiguous 48 U.S. states.  Corn Crop  Corn has surged 41 percent since June 1 as Midwest crops
withered under the drought. That rise in prices has been slowed
for a second day in  Chicago  on speculation a drought-fueled
rally to a 13-month high may curb demand for supplies from the
U.S., the world’s largest grower and exporter.  U.S. output of ethanol, made from corn, fell 2.3 percent in
the week ended July 13 to the lowest level since the Energy
Department began tracking weekly production data in June 2010.
U.S. feedlots likely cut cattle purchases by 1.5 percent in June
from a year earlier amid higher corn costs, according to a
Bloomberg survey of analysts before a government report July 20.  For July 24, the normal average temperature is 78 in New
York, according to MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . It’s 74 in Boston; 80 in Washington; 85 in Houston; 74
in Chicago; 80 in Atlanta; 67 in  Seattle  and 75 in Burbank,
California, according to MDA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  