-- Thunderstorms, High Winds Sweep Northeast, Flights Delayed
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-07-18T20:21:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/thunderstorms-damaging-winds-sweep-east-coast-delaying-flights.html
Thunderstorms with winds as strong
as 60 miles (97 kilometers) per hour across the U.S. Northeast
have tied up air traffic from  Boston  to Washington and caused
hundreds of flights to be canceled.  Pounding rain and gusting winds have knocked down trees,
wires and damaged buildings from Kentucky to Connecticut,
according to the U.S. Storm Prediction Center in Norman,
Oklahoma. Tornadoes were reported near Binghamton,  New York , and
in Lynn, Massachusetts, just north of Boston.  “These are dangerous storms,” the  National Weather
Service  said in a warning issued for northern New Jersey. The
service said people in the path should be ready for “damaging
winds, destructive hail and deadly cloud-to-ground lightning.”  Last year, lightning damage caused $952.4 million in
insured losses across the U.S. and killed 26 people, according
to the  Insurance Information Institute  in New York. From 2004 to
2008, lightning caused 24,600 fires a year.  On June 29, severe thunderstorms touched off a windstorm
known as a derecho that knocked out power from North Carolina to
 New Jersey .  Air traffic at New York’s La Guardia and John F. Kennedy
airports has been delayed by more than two hours, according to
the  Federal Aviation Administration .  At least 634 flights in the U.S. were canceled today,
according to FlightAware, a Houston-based tracking service.
LaGuardia had 91 flights scrubbed, the most in the U.S.,
followed by 58 in Philadelphia.  Traffic Delays  Traffic to Newark and Boston has been delayed by more than
90 minutes, according to the FAA’s website. Aircraft are also
being held up at airports in  Detroit , Philadelphia, Baltimore
and Washington.  The heavy rains from the storms have also prompted flash-
flood warnings in many places from  Virginia  to  Massachusetts .
Storms in eastern Massachusetts were dropping rain at 1.5 inches
(3.8 centimeters) an hour.  “Residents living along streams and creeks should take
immediate precautions to protect life and property,” the
weather service said in a warning in Massachusetts. “Do not
attempt to cross swiftly flowing waters or water of unknown
depth by foot or by automobile.”  The storms should pass by 9 p.m. in most areas, the service
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  