-- Unions Gain Under Citizens United Decision They Seek to Overturn
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-07-18T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/unions-gain-under-citizens-united-decision-they-seek-to-overturn.html
U.S. labor-union leaders are taking
advantage of a  Supreme Court  ruling they are fighting to
overturn in their drive to elect Democrats this year.  The AFL-CIO, the largest U.S. labor federation, will send
more than 400,000 volunteers to campaign for President  Barack Obama , aided by a decision known as  Citizens United  that removed
limits on independent spending by corporations and unions.  Before the 2010 ruling, labor unions were able to make
donations only through regulated political action committees,
which collect voluntary donations from employees and have
reporting requirements and limits on disbursements. The decision
lets unions spend from their treasuries, taking restrictions off
using member dues in political campaigns.  “This will make us far more efficient and it is going to
make the electorate more and more informed,” AFL-CIO President
 Richard Trumka  said at a Washington news conference July 12.  The ruling means labor groups are now able to pay members
to campaign in neighborhoods among all residents -- not just
union homes -- get people to the polls and push their message.
Limits remain on donating to candidates and parties.  With many union members living in toss-up states such as
 Ohio , Michigan and  Wisconsin , labor’s increased efficiency might
make a difference.  Labor Opposition  Union leaders have said the court’s ruling went too far,
giving wealthy donors too much say in elections. Billionaires
such as  Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS)  Chief Executive Officer  Sheldon Adelson , who with his family donated more than $20 million to a
super-PAC supporting Republican  Newt Gingrich ’s failed campaign,
and Koch Industries Inc. executives Charles and  David Koch , who
have ties to Americans for Prosperity, which financed efforts to
limit unions in Wisconsin, can write multimillion dollar checks.
Such efforts drown out the contributions of the middle class,
according to the unions.  The AFL-CIO’s executive council is pressing to overturn the
decision. International Brotherhood of Teamsters President James Hoffa said the ruling is part of a “war on workers.” Leaders
of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal
Employees said the decision is an example of politicians
targeting working Americans “as never before.”  “No one hated the idea” when the unions were spending
hundreds of millions from their PACs, Fred Wszolek, a spokesman
for the Workplace Fairness Institute, a Washington-based ground
funded by companies that opposes unions, said in an interview.
“All of a sudden it is sensational outrage.”  Limits Lifted  While unions paid for television commercials and displayed
political signs in previous elections, all the cash came from
the voluntary donations sent to a political committee.  The ruling will let union campaigners expand the ground
they cover, Jamie Horwitz, a labor consultant who has worked
with AFL-CIO groups, such as the Transport Workers Union, said
in an interview. Union workers previously had to avoid homes of
non-union members, and were barred from distributing campaign
materials to people while walking between targeted houses
because union case could only be used for member-to-member
outreach.  “We will be able to out-organize and have an advantage on
the ground in terms of being able to talk to real voters
directly,” said Tim Burga, president of Ohio’s AFL-CIO. “We’ll
be in working-class neighborhoods where we want to be, where
there are opportunities to have face to face conversations with
working people.”  Labor Spending  Labor groups’ cash donations so far this year trail the so-
called super PACs set up by candidates and interest groups.
Workers’ Voice, the AFL-CIO’s super PAC that targets voter
turnout and minorities, raised $3.4 million through six months
this year. By comparison, American Crossroads, a group co-
founded by Republican adviser  Karl Rove , reported $16 million in
five months this year.  The Citizens United decision will free labor leaders to
counter anti-Obama ads from PACs that are “polluting the
airwaves,” Trumka said. Union members can visit a voter at
home, assess concerns, follow up with more information and on
election day can provide reminders to vote, all financed by
union cash. Before Citizens United, union were barred from
spending cash on such activities, he said.  Results for the unions have been mixed after the decision.
Labor groups last year helped win a referendum overturning an
Ohio law aimed at limiting collective bargaining. In June, the
unions lost an effort to recall Wisconsin Governor  Scott Walker ,
a Republican who backed reductions in the bargaining rights of
state workers.  Wisconsin, Romney  Democrats may be unable to keep up with Republican
spending. In Wisconsin, Milwaukee Mayor Tom Barrett, who ran
against Walker in the recall election, was outspent by more than
9-to-1. Additionally, presumptive Republican presidential
nominee  Mitt Romney  and party committees said they raised $106
million in June, compared with $71 million for Obama and
Democratic Party committees.  The Citizens United court decision is unlikely to vanish.
The Supreme Court last month affirmed the decision, throwing out
 Montana ’s 100-year-old ban on corporate campaign spending.  Any gains from Citizens United may not become evident for
several years, or a couple of two-year election cycles,  Gary Chaison , a professor Industrial Relations at  Clark University  in
Worcester,  Massachusetts , said in an interview. In swing states
such as Ohio and  Pennsylvania  with many union members, increased
labor participation could be pivotal, Chaison said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  