-- US Airways CEO Won’t Wait Indefinitely for American Deal
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-07-18T20:05:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/us-airways-ceo-won-t-wait-indefinitely-for-american-deal.html
Only  US Airways  Group Inc. can solve
bankrupt  American Airlines ’ network deficiencies with a merger,
Chief Executive Officer Doug Parker said, and his company’s
interest in a deal isn’t infinite.  “US Airways is here now and ready to get this done, and
there is no guarantee that will be the case forever,” Parker
said in a speech today to the  National Press Club  in Washington.
“We believe the time for action is now.”  US Airways has pressed for a merger since January with  AMR
Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American, a combination that would surpass  United
Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  as the world’s largest airline. The
Tempe, Arizona-based carrier hasn’t made a formal offer because
American still holds the exclusive right to propose a
reorganization plan.  A merger needs to occur during American’s bankruptcy to
avoid transaction expenses that would occur after emerging from
court protection and to secure a “better environment” to work
out fleet, facility and technology issues, Parker said.  US Airways, which failed in earlier bids to combine with
Delta Air Lines Inc. and  United Airlines , has lobbied American
creditors to build support for a merger since securing tentative
contract agreements with the  Fort Worth , Texas-based carrier’s
unions. US Airways said last week that it bought  AMR debt  to
become an official creditor in the bankruptcy.  Nothing Personal  “The only opposition that seems to exist to this merger is
senior management at American,” Parker said. He worked with
American CEO  Tom Horton  earlier in his career and said the two
remain friends. There is nothing personal in the takeover
battle, Parker said.  US Airways fell 4.6 percent to $13.42 at the close in  New
York . The  shares  have more than doubled this year for the
biggest gain in the 10-company Bloomberg U.S. Airlines Index.  American said on July 11 that it’s ready to consider
mergers and other restructuring options, after determining what
its potential revenue and costs would be if the airline remains
independent. Horton originally said his preference was to
evaluate combinations after leaving court protection.  “This will be a disciplined process guided by the facts
and will not be influenced by baseless rhetoric,” Mike Trevino,
an American spokesman, said today in a statement. “Our
increasing strength positions us well to evaluate the full range
of strategic options versus our reorganization plan.”  AMR today reported second-quarter profit of $95 million,
excluding $336 million in bankruptcy restructuring costs, and
record quarterly revenue of $6.45 billion.  In a meeting with AMR’s bankruptcy creditors committee
July 10, Horton named US Airways among five potential partners.
The others are JetBlue Airways Corp., Alaska Airlines,  Frontier
Airlines  and Virgin America Inc.  Backing Extension  US Airways is supporting American’s request that U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge Sean Lane extend to the end of the year the AMR
unit’s exclusive right to file a reorganization plan.  Combining with American would save “thousands” of jobs
and offer better compensation and long-term opportunities for
workers of both companies, Parker said. Because their networks
have little overlap, US Airways would maintain the current
fleets and all existing hub cities, Parker said.  American is awaiting votes by its pilots and mechanics on
contract concessions that would help cut annual  labor  costs by
$1.25 billion. Baggage handlers and other airport ground workers
already have approved agreements, and flight attendants have not
reached a labor accord.  The unions’ agreements with US Airways, first disclosed in
April, take effect only if a merger occurs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Plungis in  Washington  at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Langford at 
 jlangford2@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  