-- Biggest Iron Miner Vale Lifts Output as Brazil Rain Eases
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-07-19T20:43:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/vale-second-quarter-iron-ore-output-climbs-on-biggest-mine-1-.html
Vale SA (VALE5) ’s second-quarter  iron-ore 
production rose 0.4 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, as the
world’s biggest producer of the steel-making ingredient lost
less time to rain at its largest mine.  Output climbed to 80.5 million metric tons from 80.3
million tons a year ago, the Rio de Janeiro-based company said
in a regulatory  filing  yesterday. That beat the 80.2-million ton
average estimate of six analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BHP) ’s quarterly iron-ore output climbed 15 percent.  Brazilian iron-ore exports rose 2.1 percent in the quarter
as expanding Asian demand partially offset a slump in European
orders. Steel demand in  China , the biggest consumer of iron ore,
is performing in a “very good” way this year, Vale Chief
Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said last month. Production at
Carajas, the world’s largest iron-ore mine, grew 5.2 percent in
the second quarter as weather conditions improved, Vale said.  “We were positively impressed by the recovery in
production at Carajas, which delivers Vale’s highest quality ore
at the lowest cost,” Barclays Plc analysts led by Leonardo
Correa in  Sao Paulo  said in a note to customers yesterday.  Vale, the world’s second-largest mining company, slid 0.1
percent to 38.57 reais at the close in Sao Paulo, the lowest
since Jun 28.  Nickel Delays  Vale’s production of pellets, a processed form of iron ore
used by the  steel industry , gained 8.5 percent to a record 14.3
million tons in the quarter. Nickel output rose 8.4 percent to
61,000 tons, missing a 69,000-ton forecast by Citigroup Inc.
after delays at its Canadian operations and shutdowns at Onca
Puma and the VNC project in  New Caledonia . Copper output climbed
11 percent in the past year to 70,000 tons, Vale said.  “The longer-than-expected temporary suspension for safety
assessment of mining operations in Sudbury negatively impacted
finished nickel production,” the company said, referring to its
Canadian mine.  Vale’s Onca Puma nickel plant in northern  Brazil  stopped
producing by the end of the quarter after problems with two
furnaces and is likely to be out of operation for the next few
months, the company said. VNC, which stopped production in May
due to an incident at an acid plant, is expected to resume
operations in the fourth-quarter.  Exceeding Forecasts  Melbourne-based BHP, the world’s third-largest iron-ore
producer after Vale and Rio Tinto Group, said yesterday that
output for the steel-making raw material was 40.9 million tons
in the three months ended June 30, beating the 37.3 million ton
median estimate of five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Rio’s
quarterly iron-ore production was little changed at 48.6 million
tons from last year, meeting analyst expectations, the company
said July 17.  Vale has  gained  2 percent this year compared with a 9.6
percent decline for BHP in Sydney and Rio’s 4.6 percent drop in
 London .  The Brazilian company is scheduled to release its second-
quarter earnings report on July 25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  