-- Viacom Says DirecTV Talks Are Now at ‘Impasse’
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-07-19T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/viacom-says-contract-talks-with-directv-are-now-at-impasse-.html
Viacom Inc. (VIAB) , owner of MTV,
Nickelodeon and  Comedy Central , said program-fee talks with
DirecTV stalled, signaling a longer blackout for 20 million
subscribers who lost the pay-TV networks nine days ago.  “We’ve reached an impasse,” Denise Denson, executive vice
president of content distribution at New York-based Viacom, said
yesterday in a phone interview. “They’re not negotiating
productively. I don’t see any end to this blackout.”  DirecTV said Viacom was misrepresenting the talks. The El
Segundo, California-based satellite-TV provider said it had
agreed on major points for a new fee agreement restoring the
channels, and that an accord was close until Viacom demanded the
movie channel Epix be included.  “Viacom insists that we carry the Epix channel at an
additional cost of more than half a billion dollars,”  DirecTV (DTV) 
said in a statement. “We know our customers don’t want to pay
such an extreme price for an extra channel, they simply want the
ones they had returned to them.”  DirecTV, the second-largest pay-TV provider in the U.S.,
pulled 17 standard-definition and nine high-definition Viacom
channels on July 10 after the two companies failed to reach an
agreement on a new contract. Since then, DirecTV customers have
been without popular cable shows such as “The  Daily Show ” on
Comedy Central.  DirecTV said on July 17 it was closer to restoring Viacom’s
channels as talks continued. The company reiterated that view
yesterday, calling Viacom’s characterization  “completely
inaccurate.”  Epix Channel  Viacom “made a proposal last night for our carriage of the
17 channels they pulled from DirecTV and we accepted all
material terms for those channels, including an increase that
was more than fair,” DirecTV said in the e-mailed statement.  Epix , a movie channel that Viacom’s  Paramount Pictures 
started in 2009 with  Lions Gate Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer Studios Inc., has gained limited distribution on
pay-TV systems. The three biggest, Philadelphia-based Comcast
Corp., DirecTV and New York-based  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , don’t
offer the channel.  DirecTV has said Viacom is asking for a 30 percent rate
increase over the term of the new contract, amounting to more
than $1 billion in additional costs. DirecTV has forecast that
its total programming expenses will rise almost 10 percent this
year.  ‘Deny,’ ‘Delay,’  Viacom has countered by saying its fees account for less
than 5 percent of the satellite service’s programming expenses.  Viacom’s Denson said yesterday that DirecTV has spent
little time on contract talks.  “They spend 10 minutes a day negotiating the deal,”
Denson said. “That’s all the time they devote to this -- it’s
deny, delay, deceive.”  Meanwhile, Viacom’s audience has shrunk 20 percent since
the blackout began, estimates Todd Juenger, an analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in  New York .  Viacom Chief Executive Officer  Philippe Dauman  met with
DirecTV CEO Mike White last week during Allen & Co.’s media
conference in  Sun Valley , Idaho, according to Denson. Over the
course of a 30-minute talk, Dauman offered a compromise that
White said he would consider, she said, declining to discuss
specifics.  “Mike never called back,” Denson said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  