-- Vilsack Says Drought May Cut Farm Exports, Urges More Aid
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-07-18T18:39:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/vilsack-says-drought-may-cut-farm-exports-urges-more-farm-aid.html
Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack
said the drought gripping much of the U.S. may cause a “small
decline” in corn and soybeans exports, and he urged Congress to
provide additional aid to farmers.  The damage to crops and to grazing land for livestock
ultimately will affect food prices, Vilsack told reporters at
the White House after briefing President  Barack Obama  on the
federal response. Earlier, he widened the federal drought-
disaster declaration to 1,297 counties in 29 states from 1,016
counties in 26 states.  Describing the drought as “the most serious situation
we’ve had probably in 25 years,” Vilsack called on Congress to
give the Agriculture Department more flexibility in assisting
farmers and to bolster assistance programs. He said 61 percent
of the U.S. is affected.  The worst U.S. drought in decades is damaging or killing
crops across the nation, cutting production and driving up grain
prices that are likely to push U.S. and global food costs
higher.  Vilsack said prices for beef, poultry and pork probably
will rise later this year and increases in the cost of processed
foods will hit in 2013. Before the drought, Vilsack said the
department was estimating food prices would increase between 2.5
percent and 3.5 percent this year.  Uncertainty  “There is some degree of uncertainty about all of this,”
he said. “The spotty nature of drought, the spotty nature of
rains, can sometimes result in better yields than anticipated.
We’re just going to have to see.”  The disaster declaration, which also covered wildfires and
other disasters, makes farmers and ranchers eligible for low-
interest loans.  The USDA also said it was streamlining procedures to
process farm disaster claims more quickly and was reducing
penalties on livestock grazing on conservation land. Vilsack
said the administration will work with Congress on additional
disaster programs and greater flexibility for the Commodity
Credit Corporation, which covers  farm subsidies .  Corn may reach a record $8.50 a bushel, leading to a cut in
exports of the U.S.’s most valuable crop, accord to broker
Newedge USA LLC. Corn futures for December delivery rose 1.5
cents, or 0.2 percent, to $7.7275 a bushel at 9:33 a.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade.  USDA crop-condition ratings for corn and soybeans, as of
July 15, were the worst for that time of year since a drought in
1988.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  