-- Visa Europe Should Match MasterCard Fee Cut, Almunia Says
-- B y   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 2012-07-18T11:28:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/visa-europe-should-match-mastercard-fee-cut-eu-s-almunia-says.html
Visa  Europe  Ltd. should match
MasterCard Inc.’s lower fees for credit cards to settle a
European Union antitrust investigation, the EU’s antitrust chief
said.  EU Competition Commissioner  Joaquin Almunia  said he hoped
that Visa Europe, operator of the largest payment-card network
in the 27-nation EU, would reduce the fees it charges for cross-
border credit-card transactions to “the level we have agreed in
the past with MasterCard” to end a five-year probe.  “I think the best way to advance is, as a first step, to
agree on this 0.3 percent to be on equal terms with its main
competitor MasterCard,” Almunia told Bloomberg News in an
interview on July 16. “In this area it’s better to reach
agreements.”  Almunia said in May that total costs retailers face to
handle payments haven’t decreased since 2006. Regulators settled
earlier probes into  Visa Europe  and MasterCard concerning the
fees they charge on debit card transactions outside a user’s
home country.  Visa Inc. (V) , MasterCard and some of the biggest U.S.
banks this month agreed to a U.S. settlement of at least $6.05
billion in a price-fixing case brought by retailers over credit-
card swipe fees.  Visa Europe “is committed to continuing dialog to reach a
commercially acceptable agreement setting credit and deferred-
debit interchange” fees, said Amanda Kamin, a spokeswoman for
the company in  London .  Debit Cards  Visa Europe reduced similar fees for  debit cards  last year
to settle a 2009 EU complaint. The company split from Visa Inc.
before the U.S. card company’s initial public offering in early
2008.  Almunia will meet with Visa Europe’s Chief Executive
Officer Peter Ayliffe next week, he said. The EU is continuing
its investigation into the card fees and is still waiting for
proposals from the company on any possible settlement. He didn’t
rule out sending an antitrust complaint to Visa Europe.  “It’s a possibility during the next steps of investigation
additional objections can appear,” Almunia said.  The EU commissioner said a May court decision backing
regulators’ curb on  MasterCard (MA) ’s cross-border card fees should
encourage Visa “to follow the route of an agreement and not to
continue the confrontational” approach.  The EU’s General Court rejected MasterCard’s challenge to
the EU decision that it unfairly inflated the transaction fees
paid by retailers for processing payments. MasterCard will
appeal the case to the EU’s highest court.  Retailers have long complained about the cost they are
charged to accept card payments. Unlike for checks, banks charge
interchange fees to process debit- and credit-card payments.
Card operators set the amounts, own the payment networks and
pass the money to the lenders. The retailer’s bank pays the fees
to the customer’s card issuer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 