-- Wiggins Nears Tour de France Victory as Evans’s Defense Crumbles
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-07-18T23:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/wiggins-retains-tour-de-france-lead-as-evans-defense-seen-over.html
Bradley Wiggins moved a step closer
to becoming Britain’s first Tour de  France  winner after twice
repelling mountain attacks by Vincenzo Nibali. Defending
champion Cadel Evans all but dropped out of contention.  Europcar’s  Thomas Voeckler  was the first over four Pyrenees
mountain passes to win the 122-mile (197-kilometer) 16th stage
yesterday that ended with a descent to Bagneres de Luchon. He
finished 1 minute, 40 seconds ahead of Chris Anker Sorensen.
Euskaltel’s Gorka Izaguirre was third.  Wiggins is  2 minutes, 5 seconds ahead  of Team Sky teammate
Chris Froome before today’s final mountain stage -- the 17th of
21 days racing -- that ends with a climb to the Peyragudes ski
resort. Nibali of Liquigas is 18 seconds further back in third.  “As a team we passed the test again,” Wiggins, who took
the lead after stage seven, told reporters. “We’ve created the
ideal scenario by putting more time into  Cadel Evans  and
although we weren’t able to get rid of Nibali -- who is very
strong -- it was a great day.”  Evans, who said he began suffering from a stomach upset
before yesterday’s stage, struggled on the last two climbs and
finished almost five minutes behind Wiggins. He dropped to
seventh overall from fourth and is 8:06 behind the leader.  “There’s no way to get back that time,” Evans’s  BMC
Racing  teammate Tejay van Garderen told reporters. “It’s never
going to happen.”  On the last of the four ascents, to the Col de Peyresourde,
Nibali darted ahead of Wiggins with about 2.5 miles of climbing
left. Froome helped Wiggins close the Italian’s 100-meter (328-
foot) advantage within a few minutes.  Another Attack  Nibali attacked again nearer the summit and this time
Wiggins managed to follow his wheel on his own, with Froome just
behind. The top three in the overall standings crossed the
finishing line together.  In 30 degree Celsius (86 degree Fahrenheit) heat, riders
tackled almost 36 miles of climbing.  They doused themselves in water and rode with shirts
flapping open as they climbed the  out-of-category Col d’Aubisque 
and Col du Tourmalet before traversing the slightly smaller
Aspin and Peyresourde climbs.  “It was hot out there today, probably the hottest we’ve
had on the Tour,” Wiggins said.  A 38-rider breakaway built a lead of about five minutes on
the main pack on the first mountain, although it splintered on
Tourmalet where Voeckler and Saur-Sojasun’s Brice Feillu broke
away from the rest.  The French pair had a 40-second lead on Garmin’s Dan Martin
on the third climb, which they extended as the Irish rider
toiled.  Final Descent  Voeckler took the sole lead with about 3 miles of the final
climb remaining, leaving Feillu behind. He zipped down the final
descent and won his second stage of this month’s race for a
fourth career victory on the Tour.  He also took possession of the polka-dot jersey as the
race’s top-ranked climber.  “It was four races within a race,” Voeckler said of the
mountain ascents. “I don’t know if it was my most beautiful
stage win -- it’s difficult to classify them -- but I’m very
proud.”  Evans dropped behind Wiggins about a mile from the top of
the third mountain. He managed to fight his way back before
lagging again on the final ascent.  The 35-year-old Australian touched hands with BMC Racing
teammate George Hincapie as they crossed the line together to
thank him for his support.  “It’s pretty much  Tour de France  over for me,” Evans said.
“Obviously this year things haven’t been coming together.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in Bagneres de Luchon, France, at 
at  aduff4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  