-- Jibril’s Libyan Alliance Nabs Largest Block of Seats in Vote
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   S t e p h e n
-- 2012-07-18T08:53:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/two-women-elected-as-unaffiliated-lawmakers-in-libya-parliament.html
An alliance headed by  Libya ’s
wartime rebel premier beat the Muslim Brotherhood’s party to
secure the single largest block of seats in the country’s first
free nationwide elections in more than four decades.  Mahmoud Jibril’s National Forces Alliance won 39 of the 80
seats reserved for parties in the new 200-seat national
Congress, falling short of the majority that could have spared
it the need to seek out partners, according to results released
by the elections commission later yesterday.  The results, with the Muslim Brotherhood’s Justice and
Construction party capturing 17 seats, didn’t track elections in
neighboring  Egypt  where Islamists secured a victory following
the uprising that ousted  Hosni Mubarak . Egypt’s Mohamed Mursi
was sworn in at the end of June as the country’s first freely
elected civilian leader.  Jibril, who says he’ll rebuild a nation battered both by
the eight month conflict last year and the after-effects of
decades of neglect under  Muammar Qaddafi , has called on all
parties to hold talks on a national unity coalition.  The new Congress is charged with selecting a prime minister
and a Cabinet before full parliamentary elections next year. The
results, which are subject to a two-week appeals process before
being certified, showed the Union for Homeland winning three
seats. The party is based in Misrata, home to one of Libya’s
strongest militias, and is led by Abdel Rahman al-Suwayhili, a
long-time anti-Qaddafi dissident and university professor. The
remaining 18 parties won either one or two seats.  A total of 120 seats were set aside for individual
candidates, with women securing only one of those slots. A
second woman who had initially won in one of the districts was
edged out in the final tabulation.  Jibril’s group and the Brotherhood’s party will probably
have to broker deals with at least some of those individuals to
secure their position in the interim legislature that will take
over running the country from the National Transitional Council.
The NTC has ruled Libya since Qaddafi was pushed from power.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Tripoli, Libya, at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Stephen in Tripoli, Libya at 
 cstephen9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  