-- World Bank’s Kim Says Debt Crisis May Curb Global Growth
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-07-18T20:43:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/world-bank-s-kim-says-debt-crisis-may-curb-global-growth.html
Jim Yong Kim, the new  World Bank 
president, said the  European debt crisis  could reduce growth in
most of the world’s regions by as much as 1.5 percent even if it
is contained, pledging to boost aid to developing nations if
needed.  “What’s happening in Europe today affects the fisherman in
 Senegal  and the software programmer in India,” Kim said in a
speech at the  Brookings Institution  in Washington, his first
since taking the helm of the bank this month. “Therefore, it is
urgent that European countries take all necessary measures to
restore stability.”  The 17-country euro region’s turmoil led the  International
Monetary Fund  this week to reduce its 2013 forecasts for
emerging markets from China to India, which were already facing
slowing domestic demand. Kim said that a major crisis in Europe
could reduce gross domestic product in developing economies by 4
percent or more and “trigger a deep recession everywhere.”  Still, he said he was encouraged by an agreement by leaders
from the euro region last month that goes toward a fiscal and
banking union.  The 52-year-old Kim, the former president of Dartmouth
College, succeeded  Robert Zoellick  this month at the helm of a
poverty-fighting institution that made about $53 billion worth
of loans last year. He said that the bank has “adequate
resources” to increase lending and investment and can work with
clients to make fast disbursements.  “Fast Action”  “The World Bank needs to take fast action to protect
 developing countries  from Europe’s debt crisis” Elizabeth
Stuart, a spokeswoman for aid group Oxfam International, said in
an e-mailed statement after the speech. The International
Monetary Fund “ is bailing out Europe; the World Bank needs to
step up efforts to assist poor countries.”  Kim, who said earlier this month that he was open to
providing technical expertise to advanced economies such as
Greece, said lessons from  emerging markets ’ past financial
crises could be useful to Europe.  He vowed to improve the bank’s engagement in fragile states
shaken by conflict and instability, which he said needs the
lender to be “far more responsive than it is today, and capable
of delivering the right financial and technical support at the
right time.”  Kim, who grew up in the U.S. and was born in Korea, called
on emerging markets to take on a greater role in financing
development as they account for a growing share of global
growth.  Developed economies “have made significant contributions
through aid” and must continue that engagement, he said.
“Emerging economies must increase their contributions,
commensurate with their growing economic weight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  