-- Yankees Beat Blue Jays as Sabathia Wins in Return From Injury
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-07-18T04:07:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/yankees-beat-blue-jays-as-sabathia-wins-in-return-from-injury.html
CC Sabathia pitched six scoreless
innings in his return from the disabled list as the New York
Yankees beat the Toronto Blue Jays 6-1.  Sabathia, who had been out since June 24 because of a
strained groin, limited the Blue Jays to four hits and had six
strikeouts in improving his record to 10-3.  Sabathia was staked to an early 3-0 lead when  Andruw Jones 
hit a three-run homer in the second inning last night at Yankee
Stadium.  Derek Jeter  and Chris Stewart added run-scoring doubles
in the seventh inning as the Yankees improved their Major League
Baseball-best record to 56-34.  While the Yankees have won eight of their past 10 games,
the New York Mets lost their fifth in a row with a 5-4 defeat at
the Washington Nationals in 10 innings.  Ryan Zimmerman  scored
the winning run on a wild pitch after the Mets had taken one-run
leads in the top of both the ninth and 10th innings.  At 52-36, the Nationals have the best record in the
National League.  The Los Angeles Angels erupted for 18 hits and five homers
yesterday in a 13-0 rout of the host Detroit Tigers. Mark Trumbo
hit his sixth homer in eight games, while Mike Trout,  Albert Pujols , Alberto Callaspo and Kendrys Morales added home runs.  Kevin Youkilis  helped the Chicago White Sox to a 7-5
victory over the  Red Sox  in Boston by hitting a three-run homer
against his former team.  The Atlanta Braves had their seven-game winning streak
snapped with a 9-0 loss to the San Francisco Giants, who picked
up their 50th win of the season, improving to 50-40.  The NL Central Division-leading Cincinnati Reds boosted
their record to 51-39 by beating the Arizona Diamondbacks 4-0 as
Johnny Cueto and four relievers combined on an eight-hitter. The
Reds remain one game ahead of the Pittsburgh Pirates, who beat
the Colorado Rockies 6-2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  