-- Yen Gains Versus Euro, Dollar Before German Bailout Vote
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 2012-07-19T05:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/yen-near-seven-week-high-versus-euro-before-german-vote.html
The yen rose against all of its 16
major counterparts as concern  Europe ’s leaders will be slow to
implement measures to stem the region’s debt crisis supported
demand for  Japan ’s currency as a haven.  The yen climbed for a second day against the euro before
German lawmakers vote on a bailout for Spanish lenders.
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  called on fellow leaders to work harder
to make Europe succeed without waiting for German help. The
dollar slid to the lowest in 2 1/2 months versus its Australian
counterpart before U.S. data today that may show claims for
jobless benefits climbed, boosting prospects the  Federal Reserve 
will add to easing measures that debase the greenback.  “Nothing has been resolved on Europe’s debt crisis and it
won’t end any time soon,” said  Marito Ueda , senior managing
director in  Tokyo  at  FX Prime Corp. (8711) , a currency-margin company.
“The yen is being bought in such a negative situation because
there are few other choices.”  The yen gained 0.3 percent to 96.47 per euro as of 6:31
a.m. in  London . It touched 96.17 on July 16, the strongest level
since June 1. The 17-nation euro bought $1.2280 from $1.2284
yesterday. The dollar touched 78.47 yen, the weakest since June
5, before trading at 78.55 yen, 0.3 percent below yesterday’s
close. The U.S. currency lost 0.2 percent to $1.0387 per
Australian dollar after earlier reaching $1.0398, the weakest
since May 1.  ‘No Liability’  German lawmakers are due to vote in a special session of
the lower house today in Berlin after the  Finance Ministry  asked
parliament in a July 16 letter to support aid of as much as 100
billion euros ($122.8 billion) for Spain’s banks. The money
would come from a temporary backstop, the European Financial
Stability Facility, and then from the European Stability
Mechanism that has yet to be set up.  Merkel indicated in an interview posted on her Christian
Democratic Union party’s website yesterday that she won’t take
on additional burdens to stem the euro area’s debt crisis
without stronger checks on countries’ budgets. The principle of
“no liability unless we can really exercise control” is shared
by “a large part” of the German population, she said.  FX Prime’s Ueda said the euro may fall to $1.18 and 93 yen
by the end of September.  The Dollar Index, which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, declined to 82.851, the lowest since July 6.  Figures from the U.S. Labor Department today may show
initial  jobless claims  increased to 365,000 in the week ended
July 14 from 350,000 in the previous period, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey.  Fed Prepared  The Fed said in its Beige Book business survey yesterday
the economy expanded at a “modest to moderate” pace in June
and early July. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said in testimony
to the House Financial Services Committee yesterday in
Washington that the central bank is “prepared to take further
action as appropriate to promote a stronger economic recovery”  The euro declined 2.7 percent in the past month, the worst
performance alongside the Swiss franc among 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The dollar climbed 0.8 percent and the yen gained 1.4 percent.
The so-called Aussie posted the biggest advance in the same
period, rising 3 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares added 1.5 percent,
while a gauge of currency volatility dropped for a seventh day
to the lowest in 4 1/2 years.  Volatility Low  The  implied volatility  of three-month options on Group of
Seven currencies fell to 8.67 percent, according to a JPMorgan
Chase & Co. measure, the lowest since November 2007. Lower
volatility makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark
lending rates more attractive because the risk in such trades is
that market moves will erase profits.  The pound was little changed at $1.5656. It lost as much as
0.5 percent yesterday after minutes of the  Bank of England ’s
meeting this month showed the decision to keep its benchmark
 interest rate  at a record low 0.5 percent was unanimous.  U.K.  retail sales  including auto fuel probably climbed 0.6
percent last month after a 1.4 percent advance in June,
according to a Bloomberg News poll before today’s report.  “The stars are aligning in the direction of growing pound
pressure over coming weeks,”  Mitul Kotecha , head of global
currency strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank
in  Hong Kong , wrote in a note to today. The currency may drop to
technical support around $1.5518, he wrote. Support is an area
where buy orders may be clustered.  China ’s  yuan  was within 0.1 percent of a one-week high. The
country needs to adopt a “moderately easing” policy when
growth is below 8 percent, the Shanghai Securities News reported
today, citing Fan Jianping, chief economist at the State
Information Center.  The yuan traded at 6.3710 per dollar from 6.3702 yesterday,
when it touched 6.3681, the strongest level since July 11,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Masaki Kondo in Singapore at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  