-- Youku Plans to Increase Product Placements in Original Videos
-- B y   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-07-18T19:52:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/youku-plans-to-increase-product-placements-in-original-videos.html
Youku Inc. (YOKU) , China’s largest online
video provider, plans to expand sponsorships and product
placements in the content it produces, Chief Executive Officer
Victor Koo said.  Youku, based in Beijing, has been letting companies pay to
place products in its original programming for at least two
years, Koo said in an interview after a speech at the  Fortune
Brainstorm Tech  conference in Aspen, Colorado. Those types of
agreements now represent much less revenue than standard
advertisements, he said.  “Advertisers love them,” Koo said. “Major product
placements make the advertisers a star.”  Last night, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
approved Youku’s bid to acquire  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO) , which also
operates a Chinese video website, Koo said during an onstage
interview. The approval puts Youku closer to owning more than
half of the market share for online video in  China , Koo said.  Tudou will keep its own name and branding after the
acquisition, he said.  The merger will let Youku reduce the fees it pays to video
producers because it will eliminate costly bidding wars for
content, Koo told Bloomberg News. Youku is working with movie
studios, including those operated by  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  and  News
Corp. (NWSA) , on ways to combat piracy and perhaps allow paid video to
flourish one day in China, he said.  Youku built a business unit for producing original video
programming a few years ago, and Koo compared it to Time
Warner’s HBO channel.  “In China, the history of TV, as well as user-generated
video, is very, very short,” Koo said. He said Youku could play
a major role in shaping that experience for Chinese users.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Milian in Aspen,  Colorado , at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  