-- Yum Profit Trails Estimates as Costs Increase in China
-- B y   L e s l i e   P a t t o n   a n d   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g
-- 2012-07-18T22:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-07-18/yum-profit-trails-estimates-as-costs-increase-in-china.html
Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , owner of the KFC
and Taco Bell restaurant brands, said second-quarter profit rose
4.7 percent, falling short of analysts’ projections, as costs
increased at locations in  China .  Net income  rose to $331 million, or 69 cents a share, from
$316 million, or 65 cents, a year earlier, the Louisville,
Kentucky-based company said today in a statement. Profit
excluding certain items was 67 cents a share. Analysts  projected 
70 cents, the average of 22 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Yum, which has more than 4,600 locations in China, is
facing higher costs for workers and raw materials amid plans to
open at least 700 restaurants in the nation this year. Wage rate
inflation in China was 13 percent in the quarter and commodity
inflation was 6 percent, reducing profit margins.  “Though it’s not doing as well as it was, China is still
good,”  Jack Russo , an analyst for Edward Jones & Co., said in a
telephone interview. “Economic growth might be slowing in
China, but the company is going to forge ahead, continue to grow
its units and take market share.”  Russo, who is based in  St. Louis ,  Missouri , recommends
holding the shares.  Commodity inflation is expected to ease in the second half
of this year, and the company will leverage its pricing power to
offset these losses, Peter Saleh, an analyst for Telsey Advisory
Group, said in a telephone interview.  Yum fell 3.6 percent to $63.22 at 4:26 p.m. in New York.
The  shares  had gained 11 percent this year through the close of
regular trading today.  The company reiterated its forecast for profit excluding
certain items to increase at least 12 percent this year to about
$3.22 a share. Analysts estimate $3.31, on average.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Leslie Patton in Chicago at 
 lpatton5@bloomberg.net ;
Kelly Blessing in  New York  at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  