-- ‘Sherlock Holmes’ Sequel Is Top Movie With $40 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e   a n d   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2011-12-19T22:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/-sherlock-holmes-sequel-is-no-1-film-with-40-million-in-sales.html
“Sherlock Holmes: A Game of
Shadows” opened as the top weekend film at U.S. and Canadian
theaters, collecting $39.6 million as Hollywood looked to
sequels for a final spark to a lackluster 2011.  “Alvin and the Chipmunks: Chipwrecked,” also a sequel,
took second place with $23.2 million, researcher  Hollywood.com
Box-Office  said today in an e-mailed statement. Another follow-
on feature,  Tom Cruise ’s “Mission: Impossible - Ghost
Protocol” generated $12.8 million playing exclusively at 425
large-screen theaters, including 300 Imax locations.  The movies are among seven major pictures studios are
releasing in time for the Christmas holiday. Others scheduled
for next weekend include “The Adventures of Tintin,” “The
Girl With the Dragon Tattoo” and “War Horse.” Revenue for the
top 12 films fell from the year-earlier period, as North
American ticket sales for the year remain down 4 percent.  “In general, ticket sales have been down for the last few
weeks compared to last year because the movies aren’t as good
and exciting and there have been less 3D releases,” said Gitesh Pandya, editor of Boxofficeguru.com in New York.  U.S. cinemas generate about 20 percent of the year’s
business between mid-November and New Year’s, according to
Hollywood.com.  “ Sherlock Holmes : A Game of Shadows,” the second in the
detective series from  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  Warner Bros . studio,
was expected to generate about $52 million, said Pandya. He
forecast $32 million for “Chipmunks.”  ‘Chipwrecked’  Robert Downey Jr. reprises his role in “Holmes” as the
cerebral sleuth created by novelist Arthur Conan Doyle. This
time, Holmes and his sidekick Dr. John Watson match wits with
arch-criminal Moriarty, who plots to create an arms race among
European military powers.  Jude Law plays Watson and Jared Harris portrays Moriarty.
The first film, released in 2009, had worldwide ticket sales of
$524 million, according to Box Office Mojo, another researcher.  “Chipwrecked” is the third film in the series from  News
Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox studio about the singing chipmunks. The previous
films took in $804.5 million, according to Box Office Mojo.  In the new movie, Alvin and his pals are marooned on a
seemingly deserted tropical island. Jason Lee plays the
chipmunks’ human manager Dave. The film also features the voices
of  Justin Long  and Amy Poehler.  “Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol” is the first new
film in the series from  Viacom Inc. ’s  Paramount Pictures  since
2006. Three prior installments had $1.4 billion in global sales,
according to Box Office Mojo.  ‘New Year’s Eve’  In “Ghost Protocol,” the Impossible Mission Force is shut
down after members are accused of bombing the Kremlin. Team
leader Ethan Hunt, played by Cruise, sets out to clear the
group’s name.  The film is scheduled to play exclusively in  Imax (IMAX)  Corp. and
other large-screen venues for five days before opening more
widely on Dec. 21. Early Imax releases may help studios build
positive buzz about their film before opening widely, said Greg Foster, chairman and president of filmed entertainment at
Mississauga, Canada-based Imax.  “‘ Mission Impossible ’ opening this weekend scored a record
for the December-Christmas period,” he said. “This early Imax
opening is a first test, but based on this weekend, so far so
good.” He said the film had $11 million in sales at 300 Imax
locations.  Among returning films, Warner Bros.’ “New Year’s Eve”
dropped to fourth place from first with $7.3 million. The film
follows the lives of a group of  New Yorkers  as they celebrate
the holiday weekend. An ensemble cast includes  Robert De Niro ,
 Michelle Pfeiffer ,  Halle Berry , Jessica Biel and Zac Efron. The
director is Garry Marshall, whose similarly structured
“Valentine’s Day” took in $216 million globally last year.  Sales Down  Fox’s “The Sitter” fell to fifth place from second with
$4.6 million in receipts.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films dropped 13 percent to
$110.5 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said. Domestic
box-office receipts this year have declined 4 percent to $9.7
billion. Attendance is down 4.9 percent.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for Dec.
16 through yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Michael White  in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net ;
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  