-- Afghans Negotiating Long U.S. Presence: Karzai
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-18T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/afghans-negotiating-long-u-s-presence-karzai.html
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai  said
his government is negotiating with the U.S. to establish an
“enduring partnership” that may entail a long-term presence of
U.S. forces in the South Asian country.  Karzai, speaking in an interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria
GPS” to be aired today, said the accord “may bring about the
presence of some U.S. troops in  Afghanistan  for the duration of
the agreement.” It would also include provisions for the U.S.
to equip and train Afghan forces, he said.  The U.S. plans to withdraw most of its 98,000 combat
soldiers in Afghanistan by 2014 as it hands over operational
control in the war against the Taliban and al-Qaeda to Afghan
forces. It is pulling out the last of its remaining 5,500 troops
from  Iraq  this month, even as it will leave behind in Baghdad
the largest U.S. embassy in the world, with 15,000 employees and
5,000 private security guards.  A State Department official in  Washington  said the U.S. is
negotiating the terms of a long-term strategic partnership with
Afghanistan. President Obama hasn’t made any decisions about the
U.S. presence there after 2014 and has repeatedly said the U.S.
doesn’t seek permanent military bases, said the official, who
spoke on condition of anonymity.  The 10-year occupation by U.S.-led international coalition
forces has brought “political stability to Afghanistan,”
Karzai said, according to a transcript of the interview. Still,
he said, the U.S.-led occupation and the Afghan government have
failed to “provide the Afghan people with their individual
personal security.”  The occupation began with a U.S.-led invasion in 2001 to
oust the Taliban, which had harbored the al-Qaeda terrorist
network, in the aftermath of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in
the U.S.  Night Raids  Karzai said any agreement for U.S. forces to remain in the
country must put an end to so-called “night raids” on Afghan
homes where terror suspects are allegedly hiding.  “What we are asking for, in very specific and clear terms,
is that no foreign forces should enter Afghan homes,” Karzai
said.  The State Department official reiterated that the U.S.
goals were to turn search, arrest and detention operations over
to Afghan forces. Any post-2014 U.S. presence will only be with
the invitation of the Afghan government, the official said.  The top U.S. military commander in Afghanistan, General
John Allen, has privately recommended delaying new American
troop withdrawals planned by the Obama administration until
2014, the Wall Street Journal reported Dec. 6.  Karzai said his government would welcome the establishment
of a Taliban political office to foster peace negotiations with
the government. He said the office must be “authorized” and
represent the “ Taliban movement  as we see it.”  The assassination by a suicide bomber of Burhanuddin Rabbani, a former Afghan president and chairman of Afghanistan’s
government-appointed committee seeking peace negotiations with
the Taliban movement, “brought us in a shock to the recognition
that we were actually talking to nobody,” said Karzai. “Those
who came in the name of the  peace process  were assassins, were
killers, were terrorists rather than negotiators,” he said.  Including Pakistan  Any peace negotiation with the Taliban must include
Pakistan, he said. “We all know that the Taliban have their
places there. They operate from there,” Karzai said. “A
meaningful peace process cannot go well or end in satisfactory
results without  Pakistan ’s participation and help.”  He called the Dec. 6 bombing of a Shiite Muslim shrine in
Kabul a “terrible terrorist attack, which appears again to be
traced back to Pakistan.” The attack by a suicide bomber killed
56 people and wounded almost 150, Ghulam Sakhi Kargar, spokesman
for public health ministry, said Dec. 7.  A Pakistani extremist group known as Lashkar-e-Jhangvi
claimed responsibility for the attack. “If it is Lashkar-e-
Jhangvi, then perhaps it’s the responsibility of Pakistan, and
of all of us together, to go and stop this,” said Karzai.  U.S. and Afghan forces made progress in the past year in
eroding the “overall mobility and activity of the Taliban,”
Karzai said. “But I’ll have to wait a bit longer to confirm
that we have reversed the trend.”  Karzai said he won’t run for a third term after his
presidency expires in 2014. “It is against the Afghan
constitution,” he said.  Germany ’s Bild-Zeitung, citing a classified report by
Germany’s BND intelligence agency, reported Dec. 5 that Karzai
planned to change the country’s constitution to allow him to run
for another term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  