-- Manchester City Beats Arsenal 1-0 to Keep Two-Point Lead in Premier League
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2011-12-19T00:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/man-city-beats-arsenal-1-0-to-maintain-two-point-lead-in-premier-league.html
Manchester City defeated Arsenal 1-0
to keep its two-point lead atop soccer’s Premier League as
second-place  Manchester United  won 2-0 at Queens Park Rangers.  David Silva got the only goal yesterday to maintain his
team’s record of winning every home league game this season.
Wayne Rooney and Michael Carrick scored in United’s victory.  “The game was open at the end but I think we deserved to
beat Arsenal,” City manager  Roberto Mancini  told Sky Sports.
“I think we had a fantastic performance.”  In other matches, Tottenham climbed one spot to third with
a 1-0 victory against Sunderland, while Liverpool beat Aston
Villa 2-0.  City has 41 points, United 39, with Tottenham on 34 and
Chelsea 32. Fifth-place Arsenal and Liverpool in sixth are on 29
points. Tottenham has played one less match than its rivals.  City dominated the early stages against Arsenal yesterday
without finding a breakthrough and the visitors then had chances
from Gervinho and  Aaron Ramsey  on 17 minutes that were saved by
Joe Hart.  Mario Balotelli  forced Arsenal goalkeeper Wojciech Szczesny
into a stop midway through the half.  Eight minutes into the second half, Balotelli collected the
ball on the left side of the field, cut inside and hit a shot
which Szczesny could only parry.  Sergio Aguero  knocked the ball
across to Silva to fire in from close range.  Hart tipped over from a long-range Theo Walcott shot soon
after, then City came close as Pablo Zabaleta struck a post.  Both teams had further chances, including two for Gunners
defender  Thomas Vermaelen  late on. Firstly, Hart dived to keep
out a 20-yard shot from the Belgian, who then deep into injury
time curled the ball just wide.  “Both teams played with a positive spirit and played to
win,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told  Sky Sports .  United Wins  At Loftus Road, United maintained its unbeaten away record
to keep the pressure on City.  United’s opening goal came after only 52 seconds as England
striker Rooney scored for a 15th time this season, stooping to
head the ball past goalkeeper Radek Cerny from an Antonio Valencia cross.  QPR defender Danny Gabbidon blocked from Danny Welbeck two
minutes later, while a first half Jonny Evans header struck the
bar. Cerny saved efforts from Phil Jones and Valencia.  Carrick doubled the visitor’s lead on 56 minutes with a low
shot from the edge of the penalty area. Cerny then tipped wide
an effort from Welbeck and Jones hit a post, while QPR
substitute DJ Campbell volleyed over the bar from six yards.  QPR has now won only one of its eight home games this
season.  Quiet Game  “We could have scored a lot of goals,” United manager
 Alex Ferguson  told MUTV. “We kept them quiet for most of the
game and we played some terrific football at times.”  Tottenham recovered from its first league defeat in 12
matches with a win against Sunderland at White Hart Lane.
Substitute Roman Pavlyuchenko scored after 61 minutes.  Craig Bellamy and  Martin Skrtel  got first-half goals for
Liverpool in its victory at Villa, which failed to score for a
fourth time in five matches.  Two days ago, Chelsea tied 1-1 at Wigan, West Bromwich
Albion beat Blackburn 2-1, Fulham defeated Bolton 2-0, and Stoke
City won 2-1 at Wolverhampton Wanderers. Everton and Norwich
drew 1-1, while the game between Newcastle and Swansea was
scoreless.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Cone in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 