-- Manchester Utd. Beats QPR 2-0 to Move Atop Premier League; Tottenham Wins
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2011-12-18T17:04:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/manchester-united-defeats-qpr-2-0-to-move-atop-soccer-s-premier-league.html
Manchester United won 2-0 away at
Queens Park Rangers today to move ahead of Manchester City atop
English soccer’s Premier League.  Wayne Rooney  and  Michael Carrick  scored at Loftus Road as
United maintained its unbeaten away record in the league this
season. City can reclaim top spot later today if it avoids
defeat against Arsenal.  Elsewhere, Tottenham climbed one spot to third with a 1-0
victory against Sunderland at White Hart Lane. Roman Pavlyuchenko got the only goal. Liverpool beat Aston Villa 2-0
on goals from Craig Bellamy and Martin Skrtel.  As it stands, United has 39 points from 16 matches, City
has 38 from 15, with Tottenham on 34 from 15. Chelsea, which has
played 16 games, has 32 points.  United’s opening goal came after only 52 seconds at Loftus
Road as  England  striker Rooney scored for a 15th time this
season. Rooney stooped to head the ball past goalkeeper Radek Cerny from an Antonio Valencia cross.  QPR defender Danny Gabbidon blocked from Danny Wellbeck two
minutes later, while a first half Jonny Evans header struck the
bar. Cerny saved efforts from  Phil Jones  and Valencia.  Rooney had another chance in the opening minute of the
second half as United continued to dominate. Carrick doubled the
visitor’s lead on 56 minutes with a low shot from the edge of
the penalty area.  Cerny tipped wide a shot from Wellbeck and Jones hit a
post, while QPR substitute DJ Campbell volleyed over the bar
from six yards with 14 minutes remaining.  Yesterday, Chelsea tied 1-1 at Wigan, West Bromwich Albion
beat Blackburn 2-1, Fulham defeated Bolton 2-0, and Stoke City
won 2-1 at  Wolverhampton Wanderers . Everton and Norwich drew 1-
1, while the game between Newcastle and Swansea was scoreless.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in London at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  