-- Aussie, Kiwi Weaken Before RBA Minutes Amid Euro Concern, Kim’s Death
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2011-12-19T16:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/australian-dollar-weakens-before-rba-minutes-amid-european-debt-concern.html
The Australian dollar fell against
the majority of its most-traded counterparts before the  Reserve
Bank  of Australia releases minutes tomorrow of its December
meeting when it cut  interest rates  for the second straight
month.  The New Zealand dollar weakened amid concern euro-area
policy makers won’t be able to contain the region’s sovereign-
debt crisis as they discussed additional funding through the
 International Monetary Fund . Both South Pacific nations’
currencies extended losses after state television in North Korea
announced the death of leader  Kim Jong Il , sapping demand for
riskier assets in Asian markets.  “We’re looking for markets to remain volatile, given the
uncertainty about the euro-area outlook,” said Emma Lawson, a
currency strategist at National Australia Bank Ltd. in Sydney.
“The market will be expecting the RBA to have downgraded the
economic outlook to some degree to warrant the interest-rate
cut, so what we’ll be looking for is to what degree that was due
to the European situation.”  The Australian dollar fell 0.7 percent to 99.14 U.S. cents
at 11:16 a.m. New York time. It reached the weakest level since
Nov. 29 last week, falling to 98.61 U.S. cents. The so-called
Aussie declined 0.4 percent to 77.30 yen.  New Zealand’s currency weakened 0.2 percent to 75.86 U.S.
cents. The kiwi dropped 0.2 percent to 59.14 yen.  The MSCI World Index of  stocks (MXWO)  fell 0.8 percent while  South
Korea ’s Kospi index slumped as much as 4.9 percent after Kim’s
death was reported.  RBA Minutes  The RBA is scheduled to release tomorrow the minutes of its
most recent policy meeting on Dec. 6, when it cut the overnight
cash rate target to 4.25 percent from 4.5 percent, its first
back-to-back reduction since 2009.  “Financing conditions have become much more difficult,
especially in  Europe ,” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a
statement accompanying that decision. “This, together with
precautionary behavior by firms and households, means that the
likelihood of a further material slowing in global growth has
increased.”  A Credit Suisse Group AG  index  based on swaps shows traders
are betting  Australia ’s central bank will cut rates by 134 basis
points during the next 12 months. That compares with wagers for
112 basis points of easing indicated on Dec. 7.  Euro-area finance ministers held a conference call to
discuss 200 billion euros ($260 billion) in additional funding
through the International Monetary Fund and the mechanics of a
so-called fiscal compact that was negotiated at a Dec. 9
European Union summit, according to two people familiar with the
planning.  The Australian dollar has fallen 3.1 percent against its
U.S. counterpart this year, while the kiwi has dropped 2.8
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 