-- Baidu Sinks as Index Falls Most Since September: China Overnight
-- B y   Y e   X i e
-- 2011-12-18T16:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/baidu-sinks-as-index-falls-most-since-september-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks trading in the U.S.
posted the biggest weekly drop in three months as  Baidu (BIDU)  Inc. and
 Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. (YZC)  declined on concern the economic
slowdown in the world’s second-largest economy is worsening.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded Chinese
stocks lost 5.1 percent last week to 94.19 on Dec. 16, the
biggest five-day slump since September. Baidu, owner of the
country’s biggest search engine, has slid 12.3 percent since
Dec. 9 after Credit Suisse AG cut its earnings estimates for the
company. Yanzhou, China’s fourth largest coal producer, fell 9.6
percent last week to $20.84, representing a 3-cent premium over
the shares trading in Hong Kong.  Speculation is growing that policy makers may cut lenders’
reserve requirement ratio for a second time since November after
the money supply grew the least in a decade last month and
manufacturing contracted in December.  Fitch Ratings  put credit
ratings for European nations, including France, Spain and Italy,
under review for a downgrade, underscoring the need for China to
revive domestic demand as Europe’s debt crisis hurts exports.  “They are probably slowing down a bit too much perhaps for
their own taste, so they are easing monetary policy,”  Angel Gurria , secretary general of the Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television. “External demand around the world is dropping.
China is going to have to do more” to boost domestic demand, he
said.  Jobs, Inflation  A survey of China’s business confidence is scheduled for
release on Dec. 22. In Hong Kong, the government is slated to
release unemployment and inflation reports this week.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of domestic shares fell 3.9
percent last week and reached the lowest close since March 2009.
The index rose 2 percent on Dec. 16 amid the speculation central
bankers will lower reserve requirements.  The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI) , which tracks Chinese
companies trading in  Hong Kong , fell 2 percent last week while
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. shares lost 2.8 percent.
The  IShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., tumbled 4.9 percent to $34.53.  21Vianet Group Inc., (VNET)  an Internet data center services
provider, jumped 9.7 percent on Dec. 16 to $9.58. The company
said that it has exercised its option to acquire the remaining
49 percent equity interest in two companies that provide managed
network services.  Sina Corp (SINA) , owner of the Twitter-like Weibo service in China,
advanced 4.3 percent on Dec. 16 after earlier falling as much as
11 percent on a move by Beijing’s municipal government to
tighten regulation on microblog users.  Internet Rules  The new rules ban users from setting up accounts with
aliases and sending public messages containing state secrets or
information that could harm national security. Sina said in a
statement that it’s “evaluating the impact” the changes may
have on the Weibo operation.  Chinese officials have pressured microblog services to
strengthen supervision after a fatal rail crash in July sparked
an outburst of criticism of the government on the Internet.
 Microblogs , which are used to publish short messages on the
Internet, have at least 300 million registered users in China.
Sina’s Weibo accounted for 66 percent of the market in August,
according to a Sept. 15 report by BOCOM International.  The news isn’t the “worst case scenario” for Sina as
investors had already anticipated the tightening of government
regulations, according to  Adam Krejcik , an analyst at  Roth
Capital Partners .  Tencent, Sohu  “Following months of speculation, we believe Sina’s
management is relatively prepared and also believe the actual
reporting of this news, versus numerous rumors, is better for
the market,” Krejcik wrote in a note to clients. “We do not
believe this signals the end of Weibo in China.”  Sina’s shares lost 11 percent last week, extending its
decline this year to 20 percent.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , based in Shenzhen, is the second-
biggest operator of microblogs with a 25 percent share,
according to BOCOM International. Beijing-based  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU) ,
owner of the country’s fifth-most visited website, also offers
similar services. Tencent rose 0.9 percent on Dec. 16 to $19.33
in New York, trimming its weekly decline to 0.7 percent. Sohu
added 3.9 percent to $48.18, reducing the drop for the week to
8.1 percent.  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  rose 3.7 percent on Dec. 16
after the semiconductor company said it will buy back up to $50
million in shares.  FDI Decline  Youku.com Inc., (YOKU)  China’s biggest online-video website,
gained 5.1 percent on Dec. 16 to $18.05. The company filed a
copyright infringement lawsuit against rival Tudou Holdings Ltd.
at the People’s Court in Shanghai, Youku said in an e-mailed
statement. Tudou declined 1.2 percent to $11.12.  Baidu fell to a two-month low after Credit Suisse cut its
earnings estimates for the company on Dec. 13, citing lower
prices the company charged advertisers on search results.  China’s domestic bourse has lost 21 percent this year,
following a 14 percent decline in 2010, as policy makers raised
borrowing costs to combat inflation and took measures to curb
housing price increases. The Shanghai Composite Index is trading
at 10.7 times forecast earnings in the next 12 months, compared
with 13.4 in India, 4.8 in Russia and 10 in Brazil.  Reports last week show that the slowdown in the world’s
second-biggest economy is deepening. Foreign direct investment
dropped for the first time since 2009. The Conference Board’s
leading index for China, which captures prospects over the next
six months, fell in October.  Yuan Gains  The central bank reduced reserve requirements for lenders
on Nov. 30 for the first time since 2008 to temper the slowdown.
The central bank will cut reserve requirements once more this
year and five times in 2012,  Li Wei  and  Stephen Green ,
economists at Standard Chartered Plc., wrote in a note to
clients this week.  The Chinese  yuan  gained 0.4 percent on Dec. 16 to 6.3484
per dollar in Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange
Trade System.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  