-- Betting Window Is Open for the Republican Trifecta: Albert Hunt
-- B y   A l b e r t   R .   H u n t
-- 2011-12-18T16:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/betting-window-is-open-for-the-republican-trifecta-albert-hunt.html
It’s betting season in the
Republican presidential primaries.  Mitt Romney  has proposed a $10,000 wager and  Newt Gingrich 
has put $10 on the table. A safer bet would be to give a
combined 10-to-1 odds that no candidate other than Romney or
Gingrich will be the nominee. Yet several of these soon-to-be
also-rans will play crucial roles in shaping the contest over
the next six weeks.  The one certain to remain in the game after the early
contests is Texas Representative  Ron Paul , who has a fervent
following.  If Minnesota Congresswoman Michele Bachmann, Texas Governor
 Rick Perry  or former Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum  makes a
decent showing in the Iowa caucuses in two weeks -- say, fourth
place as Senator  John McCain  did four years ago -- they live to
fight on. Former Utah Governor  Jon Huntsman , meanwhile, is
staking everything on New Hampshire.  The outcome in both of these early states is dicey to
predict. New Hampshire has a long history of surges and
surprises in the final week.  In  Iowa , the Republican faithful -- four years ago, there
were 119,000 of them -- will turn out at 7 p.m. on Jan. 3 in
1,774 precincts at churches, schools and other public buildings.
After 45 minutes to an hour, where one supporter of each
candidate can speak, people vote in private. (Unlike Democrats,
who express their support publicly, in a more drawn-out
process.)  Paul’s Devotees  Organization -- identifying voters and getting them to the
polls on a snowy night -- may be overrated, but it’s more
important in  Iowa  than in the all-day primaries held in other
states. That explains the varying predictions about the outcome
for Paul. These range from a repeat of his 2008 fifth-place
showing, with 10 percent support, to predictions by some
analysts who, after last month’s Bloomberg Poll showing him
running neck and neck with the leaders, think he might win.  No other candidate matches the intensity factor enjoyed by
the Texas congressman who rails against the  Federal Reserve ,
 government spending  and the wars in Afghanistan and  Iraq . The
Bloomberg Poll showed he had contacted more voters than any
other Republican candidate.  Here’s the biggest uncertainty: the 76-year-old libertarian
has surprising appeal among young voters. It’s anyone’s guess
how many of them will come out on a cold night, with colleges on
winter break. In  New Hampshire , most polls show him at about 15
percent.  In Iowa, Bachmann, Perry and Santorum are vying for the
social conservative vote, and to peel some off of the support
for the front-runner, Gingrich. They bring different assets.
Bachmann has a strong backing in the evangelical Christian
churches, which are politically active in the state. Santorum
has visited all 99 counties and is counting on support from
small communities. Perry is spending the most money.  The combined share of the vote of these constituencies
could be as much as 35 percent. If most of it goes to one of
these candidates, he or she will get momentum. None of them is
likely to actively participate in New Hampshire a week later,
and instead all three will focus on the Jan. 21 primary in
conservative  South Carolina .  Huntsman isn’t even participating in Iowa, and  New
Hampshire  is the ballgame for him. He’s banking on the attention
that the first-in-the-nation primary state bestows; he has held
125 campaign events there already and is planning to spend the
final two weeks leading up to the Jan. 10 vote campaigning full
time in the Granite State.  New Hampshire Swing  The former envoy to  China  runs third or fourth in most
polls. New Hampshire, however, has frequently swung late and the
possibility that independents and Democrats will re-register as
late as Jan. 10 to vote in the Republican primary should be a
help for Huntsman.  If Romney, Gingrich, and Paul finish first, second and
third in Iowa and New Hampshire, the field will be set. If most
of the others try to go on, they will look like that chicken
that runs around for a short while even after its head has been
cut off.  While Paul has little chance of winning the nomination,
he’ll cause problems for the front-runners, especially Gingrich;
last week, the Paul campaign released one of the toughest and
most polished commercials and it was an attack on the former
House speaker as a serial hypocrite.  Another threat to Gingrich would arise if one of the other
conservatives emerged from Iowa to fight another day. Bachmann
and Santorum, in particular, relish attacking Gingrich’s
conservative credentials. If Huntsman wins, places, or probably
even shows in New Hampshire and has enough political cachet to
run a credible race in the Florida primary on Jan. 31, his
efforts likely would cost his fellow Mormon, Romney.  Each scenario would affect the prospects and the strategy
of the front-runners. Gingrich’s hubris --- he’s a stranger to
humility -- means he tends to brush aside the others as
inferior, say people who talk to him and his campaign. He will
have to respond to concerted attacks from the political right.  The Romney campaign, on the other hand, has been carefully
calculating all the possibilities. First, if Paul wins Iowa, the
Romney camp would be happy; it would be viewed, they believe, as
a loss for Gingrich. They then envision winning New Hampshire,
counting on Huntsman to be an also-ran.  Romney’s strategists believe their candidate has financial
and organizational advantages that position him for a protracted
fight. The centerpiece of their win-the-nomination scenario is a
belief that Gingrich will either self-destruct or be destroyed
by revelations about his past.  “We know that Newt will crater,” says a top Romney
lieutenant. “What worries us is whether it’ll be in January or
not until May.”  ( Albert R. Hunt  is the executive editor for  Washington  at
Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Albert Hunt in Washington at 
 ahunt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 