-- China Debts Dwarf Official Data With Too-Big-to-Finish Alarm
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-19T00:09:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/china-debts-dwarf-official-data-with-too-big-to-complete-alarms.html
A copy of  Manhattan , complete with
Rockefeller and Lincoln centers and what passes for the Hudson
River, is under construction an hour’s train ride from Beijing.
And like  New York City  in the 1970s, it may need a bailout.  Debt accumulated by companies financing local governments
such as Tianjin, home to the  New York  lookalike project, is
rising, a survey of Chinese-language bond prospectuses issued
this year indicates. It also suggests the total owed by all such
entities likely dwarfs the count by  China ’s national auditor and
figures disclosed by banks.  Bloomberg News tallied the debt disclosed by all 231 local
government financing companies that sold bonds, notes or
commercial paper through Dec. 10 this year. The total amounted
to 3.96 trillion yuan ($622 billion), mostly in bank loans, more
than the current size of the European bailout fund.  There are 6,576 of such entities across China, according to
a June count by the National Audit Office, which put their total
debt at 4.97 trillion yuan. That means the 231 borrowers studied
by Bloomberg have alone amassed more than three-quarters of the
overall debt.  The fact so few of the companies have accumulated that much
debt suggests a bigger problem, says Fraser Howie, the
Singapore-based managing director of CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets
who has written two books on China’s financial system.  “You should be more worried than you think,” he said of
Bloomberg’s findings. “Certainly more worried than the banks
will tell you.  “You know how this story ends -- badly,” he said.  Repayment Doubts  The findings suggest China is failing to curb borrowing
that one central bank official has said will slow growth in the
world’s second-largest economy if not controlled. With prices
dropping in China’s real estate market, economists warn that
local authorities won’t be able to repay their debt because of
poor  cash flow  and falling revenue from land sales they rely on
for much of their income.  Provinces and cities are going deeper into the red to
finish projects, from the Manhattan on the east coast, to
highways in northwestern Gansu and a stadium fronted by Olympic
rings in Hunan, central China. Many were started as part of
China’s stimulus program to beat the 2009 world recession. The
financing companies accounted for almost half of the 10.7
trillion yuan in all local government debt tallied by the
official audit.  The 231 borrowers whose public filings were reviewed by
Bloomberg raised a combined 354.1 billion yuan by selling
securities this year. They have credit lines from banks of at
least 2.3 trillion yuan that have yet to be drawn down, the
documents show.  Rising Lending  Bank lending continues to rise, Bloomberg found, even after
China’s banking regulator repeatedly warned banks to control
risks associated with it and speed up repayment.  Forty-seven of the 56 local financing companies that issued
prospectuses from Oct. 1 through Dec. 10 said their debt load
had increased this year. The combined debt of those issuers rose
10 percent from the end of 2010.  What’s more, adding up lending by bank also raises the
question as to whether China’s lenders are understating their
exposure to local government debt. Only 113 of the local
government borrowers disclosed such a breakdown; and yet this
small group appears to account for an outsized portion of what
the banks have said is their overall lending.  Data Disparities  For example,  China Construction Bank Corp. (939) , the world’s
second-biggest bank by market value, has lending to those 113
local government borrowers of 250 billion yuan. That’s 43
percent of the 580 billion yuan the bank said it had extended in
loans to all such borrowers at the end of June.  The bank has untapped lines of credit to the vehicles of a
further 341 billion yuan.  Disparities like this suggest lenders may have bigger risks
than they’ve disclosed publicly, says Charlene Chu, a banking
analyst at Fitch Ratings Ltd. in Beijing.  China Construction Bank said it stood by its total for
loans to local governments and that cash flow from them was
“good.” Nonperforming loans to such companies amounted to 6.5
billion yuan, or 1.11 percent of the total, and the lender had
set aside provisions of more than three times that, it added in
an e-mailed response to questions.  The prospectuses offer a rare window into borrowing by the
local government financing vehicles. The issuers disclose total
debt and often details of their loans and lines of credit from
banks and trust companies. The data are not consistent, with
some reporting total debt as of the end of 2009 and some as
recently as Sept. 30 this year.  (For an explanation of Bloomberg’s methodology click here.)  ‘Too Big to Complete’  Local authorities, who shoulder most of the infrastructure
spending in China, have to keep borrowing to complete projects
so they can generate cash flow needed to start paying debt back,
said Vincent Chan, head of China research at  Credit Suisse Group
AG (CSGN)  in  Hong Kong .  Yao Wei, an economist at  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA in Hong Kong,
says another 7 trillion yuan of debt will be needed to finish
projects in the government’s five-year plan through 2015.  “At some point the central government will realize this is
too big to complete,” said Yao. Banks will need to be
recapitalized as bad loan rates rise, she said. At least 1.4
trillion yuan of soured debt was taken off banks’ books after
China’s last lending crisis which began in 1998.  Senior Chinese banking officials themselves have been
raising alarm bells. Xie Duo, director general of financial
markets at the People’s Bank of China, told a Nov. 23 Beijing
conference that local governments depend too heavily on bank
borrowing and failure to solve the problem will hurt economic
growth. China’s banking regulator in November asked lenders to
control the risks associated with the vehicles and said that
slumping land sales mean some projects may run out of funding.  Loans Invested  Loans to local government companies aren’t a problem
because the projects will generate returns, even if not
immediately, said Huang Jifa, deputy general manager for
 investment banking  at  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.,
the country’s biggest lender.  “The money that Chinese local governments have borrowed is
not like the money people borrowed in  Europe  or  Greece ,” Huang
said in a Nov. 24 interview. “The Chinese government’s borrowed
money is all invested. Many projects will have returns.”  The bank says it had extended 931 billion yuan of such
loans as of June 30. Outstanding local government financing
vehicle-loans at the end of the third quarter declined from the
first half, an ICBC spokesman said. He wouldn’t comment further.  Construction Boom  A building boom by thousands of local governments became
the backbone of the country’s stimulus program started in
November 2008 -- on borrowed money. The financing companies were
created starting in the 1990s and enabled provinces, cities,
counties and townships to bypass rules barring most of them from
directly selling bonds.  Projects undertaken include a stadium, which resembles
Beijing’s iconic Bird’s Nest Olympic venue, in Jinan, the
capital of eastern China’s Shandong province; and a superhighway
in the country’s second-poorest province of Yunnan that
stretches into the foothills of the Himalayas, where there are
no cities of more than 1 million people.  In Tianjin, about 160 kilometers (99 miles) southeast of
Beijing, a sea of hundreds of construction cranes stretches
along both sides of the river at an oxbow that gives the Yujiapu
financial district its Manhattan-like shape, testimony to the
scale of China’s ambitions. Downriver are the ruins of
centuries-old forts stormed by British and French troops during
the Second Opium War in 1860.  Thousands Evicted  To build Yujiapu, Tianjin officials are piling onto
borrowing that is already at least almost half a trillion yuan -
-equivalent to half the annual per capita income of the city’s
13 million people. More than 5,000 people were moved out of the
area starting in 2008 to make way for the project, among the
millions nationwide evicted from homes to make way for China’s
urbanization projects.  The planned 15.2 million square meters (164 million square
feet) of office space by 2020 in Yujiapu and across the Hai
River in Xiangluo Wan, or Conch Bay, is more than one-third of
the 450 million square feet in Manhattan.  One of the companies building Yujiapu -- Tianjin Binhai New
Area Construction & Investment Group Co. -- sold 10 billion yuan
in bonds in November. It earmarked 1 billion yuan from the sale
to fund the construction of the district’s transport hub, which
includes a high-speed rail line that will cut the time to
Beijing to 45 minutes. In the first half of the year its debt,
mostly from banks, rose 11.9 percent from the end of 2010 to 71
billion yuan, according to the prospectus.  More Loans Needed  More borrowing is needed, Tianjin Vice Mayor Cui Jindu said
Sept. 16. New loans to the city’s financing vehicles may slump
by as much as 140 billion yuan in 2011 from last year’s level as
lenders curb risks and boost support to small and medium-sized
businesses, he said.  “If the banks don’t give us any new loans, there will be
problems,” Cui said, saying some projects in the city may not
get completed. Tianjin had “no problem” repaying loans this
year, having to that date paid off 33 billion yuan of the 39.5
billion yuan in principal due this year, he said. Another 60
billion yuan is due in 2012, Cui added.  Some 14 of 122 planned buildings are under construction in
Yujiapu, as are all 48 skyscrapers in Conch Bay, said Xu Fei,
vice-chairwoman of the office of the Tianjin Binhai New Area CBD
Commission, as she stood in front of a brightly lit model of the
future city.  Rockefeller Center  They include a 588 meter-high tower, taller than the 541
meter-high 1 World Trade Center currently under construction in
the real Manhattan, being built with the help of the Rockefeller
family’s Rose Rock Group. Steven Rockefeller Jr. attended a Dec.
16 groundbreaking event for the project, which includes the
skyscraper inspired by the Rockefeller Center in New York, Zhao
Jia, an outside spokeswoman for Rose Rock, said. The  Lincoln
Center  is advising on the construction of a performing arts
center.  Yujiapu’s resemblance to the Big Apple extends to its
rising debt that analysts like Howie say is unsustainable. New
York was near bankruptcy in 1975 after a succession of
overspending administrations, before then-President Gerald Ford
agreed to lend it $2.3 billion.  “In many of these projects, like the mini-Manhattan, it’s
never going to make money,” Howie said. “Maybe the government
can write a check from somewhere else. But that means education
gets affected, health gets affected. There’s a cost somewhere
else, because they’re wasting all these resources.”  Bond Sale  Tianjin Infrastructure Construction and Investment Group
Co., another state-owned builder working on Yujiapu, is the most
heavily indebted local government financing vehicle in China to
disclose its finances in bond prospectuses this year with 291
billion yuan in debt. It sold 3 billion yuan of bonds in April.  An official with Tianjin’s foreign affairs office said no
one was available to answer questions about whether the city’s
financing vehicles had sufficient cash flow to service their
debts.  The true level of local government debt nationwide is hard
to ascertain because the borrowing vehicles are mostly opaque.
There’s even disagreement over how many exist. The People’s Bank
of China, the country’s central bank, said in a June 1 report
there were more than 10,000. In a separate study, China’s
banking regulator tallied 9,828 as of the end of Nov. 2010,
according to an unpublished report cited by the 21st Century
Business Herald in March.  ‘Lending Binge’  “It’s very likely that senior government leaders have no
way of knowing which numbers provide the best picture of the
evolving lending binge China’s banks seem to be on,” said Carl Walter, who retired as chief operating officer in China for
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  earlier this year and is co-author with
Howie of “Red Capitalism,” an analysis of China’s banking
system.  The audit office said in an e-mailed response to questions
that it counted debt that local governments have responsibility
to repay, that they have guaranteed, or other debts that they
may be liable for. People’s Bank of China didn’t answer faxed
questions. An official with the China Banking Regulatory
Commission said to use the audit office’s figures.  The number of loans going bad will rise because of the
borrowers’ poor cash flow, according to a November report from
London-based HSBC Plc. Around 68 percent of 184 local financing
companies that have sold bonds analyzed by HSBC had a return on
capital lower than 5 percent, the benchmark lending rate last
year, compared with 37 percent for all 499 corporate issuers it
studied, the report said.  Loan Mismatch  “One of the problems with the local government financing
vehicle loans issued in 2009 was there was a mismatch between
the duration of the assets and the duration of the
liabilities,” said Michael Werner, a banking analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. in Hong Kong. “If you’re building a railroad
or a highway, it takes several years and you’re not going to get
direct revenues.”  Take Gansu Provincial Highway Aviation Tourism Investment
Group Co. The company builds roads across the arid province,
including a 3.4 billion-yuan, 235-kilomter stretch of high-speed
expressway along the ancient Silk Road to Jiayuguan, at the
westernmost pass of the Great Wall of China.  Its total debt surged 29 percent in the first nine months
to 15 percent of the province’s gross domestic product last year.
The company’s entire 2010 operational cash flow was 3.04 billion
yuan, while it had 55.9 billion yuan in bank borrowing reported
at the end of September. The revenue wouldn’t cover interest
payments at China’s standard lending rate of 6.56 percent, let
alone paying down principal.  Interest Rolled Over  Fortunately for Gansu Highway, it doesn’t have to. Almost
half of its outstanding loan principal and interest due this
year -- 24.1 billion yuan -- is being rolled over into its
outstanding bank debt, and the company plans to repeat that
exercise every year until at least 2019 when it is forecast to
owe lenders 148.9 billion yuan, according to a chart in the
prospectus it issued for a 2 billion-yuan bond sale last month.  Gansu Highway’s situation encapsulates the problem of local
government borrowers, which often have minimal or no plans to
repay debt aside from borrowing more money, says Fitch’s Chu.  “In the past, Chinese banks could carry borrowers like
this indefinitely,” she said. “But today they don’t have the
large cash reserves they used to to do this. I don’t see how all
of this doesn’t turn into a major problem at some point.”  Lei Wanming, the deputy Communist Party secretary for the
Lanzhou-based company, said Gansu Highway had no problem
covering interest and principal payments.  “You can’t look at look at Gansu roads just from an
economic perspective,” he said, citing the benefits they will
bring to poorer regions and its role in helping to eventually
connect China and Europe with high-speed expressways.  Municipal Bond Trial  China’s government has taken steps in the past four months
to help local governments as their debt comes due. It has urged
them to sell assets and allowed a pilot program for cities
including Shanghai and Shenzhen to issue bonds directly for the
first time under Communist rule, reducing their borrowing costs.  Standard & Poor’s  upgraded  Bank of China Ltd. (3988)  and China
Construction Bank on Nov. 30, saying there was a “very high”
likelihood of lenders getting government help in the event of
financial distress. The new ratings are higher than most of
their largest U.S. rivals including Bank of America Corp. and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Slumping Bank Shares  Even so, shares in the four biggest commercial banks in
China -- China Construction, ICBC, Bank of China and
 Agricultural Bank of China Ltd. (601288)  -- have tumbled an average 23
percent this year in Hong Kong. The banks have loans to the 113
local government borrowers that disclosed such information of
832 billion yuan, Bloomberg found. That’s almost one third of
the combined 2.57 trillion yuan in loans extended to all such
financing vehicles that they declared as of June 30.  The banks had another 1.19 trillion yuan in unused lines of
credit to those companies.  Bank of China President Xiao Gang, speaking at the Asia
Pacific Economic Cooperation summit on Nov. 12 in Honolulu, said
that most of his bank’s lines of credit to local government
financing vehicles were conditional, and only a minority of them
were irrevocable. Agricultural Bank said in an e-mailed response
to questions that its loans were mainly to cash-producing
infrastructure and qualified port and highway companies.  Property Price Risk  Local governments’ reliance on land sales for revenue means
a drop in property prices may expose weaknesses in the borrowing,
Huang of ICBC said.  “The real problem is the real estate market cannot fall,
the price can’t go down,” he said. “If the  property market 
really falls, the local government financing vehicle problems
will really come out. Not only will they have problems, but the
banks will have problems.”  There are signs the market is already declining, with
residential property prices falling in November from the
previous month in 49 cities of the 70 measured, the worst
performance this year. The cities of Guangzhou in the south and
Wuhan in central China canceled land sales in the last three
months.  Tianjin, which isn’t among the cities piloting municipal
bonds, was reliant on land sales for 41 percent of its income in
2009, according to China Index Academy, a Beijing real-estate
research firm.  That doesn’t bother Xu Hongzhi, the chief accountant for
Tianjin Binhai Construction, which is building Yujiapu’s
transport hub. He said that the company can pay its debts
because the area’s economy is growing at 10 percent a year.  “There is no risk,” he said.  --Michael Forsythe, Henry Sanderson. With assistance from
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong, Zhang Dingmin, Ying Tian and  Kevin Hamlin  in Beijing. Editors: Neil Western, Melissa Pozsgay  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net 
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Melissa Pozsgay at 
 mpozsgay@bloomberg.net .
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net 
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  