-- China Starts Police Campaign to Improve Handling of Citizens’ Complaints
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-18T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/china-tells-police-to-better-address-citizens-complaints.html
China  ordered police to begin a six-
month campaign to improve how they deal with complaints from the
public as the authorities face incidents of social unrest
including a protest last week in the village of Wukan.  Police officers will be sent to households to help settle
disputes and complaints, the state-run Xinhua News Agency
reported on Dec. 17, citing Zhou Yongkang, who is in charge of
the country’s security issues as a member of the Communist
Party’s ruling Politburo Standing Committee.  The campaign will cement ties between the police and the
people, Xinhua cited Zhou as saying. The Ministry of Public
Security began the program on Dec. 16, Xinhua reported.  China’s Communist Party leaders are seeking to maintain
stability in the world’s most-populous country, where three
decades of growth  averaging  10.1 percent a year has also led to
increasing income disparities and outbreaks of social unrest.
Protests in Wukan in southern China last week, after the death
of a butcher in police custody, led to armed officers
restricting the movements of villagers.  The butcher, Xue Jinbo, died of heart failure, according to
the local government. He was “suspected” of leading more than
400 villagers to “vent their anger” over a land dispute,
Xinhua reported previously. Wukan is about 150 kilometers (93
miles) east of  Hong Kong  in  Guangdong Province .  Wukan village representative Lin Zulian addressed a crowd
of more than 6,000 people on Dec. 17 and vowed to march on the
main administrative town if government officials and police
refuse to hand over Xue’s body within five days, according to
the U.K.’s  Telegraph  newspaper.  Positive Image  Zhou’s written instructions to police called on officers to
build a positive image during the campaign, according to Xinhua.
The desirable “positive image” will only be possible by
promptly addressing the most-attended security issues, Xinhua
reported in the Dec. 17 article, citing Meng Jianzhu, China’s
minister of public security.  Beijing, China’s capital, asked all users of Twitter-like
microblog services to verify their identities, Xinhua reported
last week, in a bid to tighten control of the world’s largest
Internet market.  Chinese officials have pressured microblog services to
strengthen supervision of users after a fatal rail crash in July
sparked an outburst of criticism of the government. The sites
should serve the Communist Party and stop the spread of “false
and harmful information,” the nation’s top Internet regulator
said in October.  Fake Accounts  Under the new rules, Beijing’s city government will ban
users from setting up fake microblog accounts and sending
messages containing state secrets and information that harms
national security, Xinhua reported.  Sina Weibo, a Twitter-like service run by U.S.-listed  Sina
Corp. , has blocked references to Wukan among other politically
sensitive words, such as the  Dalai Lama .  Microblogs have at least 300 million registered users in
China and Sina Weibo accounted for 66 percent of the market in
August, according to a Sept. 15 report by brokerage firm BOCOM
International.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Stephanie Wong in Shanghai at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  