-- China’s November Home Prices Post Worst Performance This Year Amid Curbs
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2011-12-19T08:34:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/china-s-november-home-prices-post-worse-performance-this-year-amid-curbs.html
China’s  home prices  posted their
worst performance this year with more than half of the 70
biggest cities monitored in November recording declines after
the government reiterated plans to maintain property curbs.  New home prices dropped from the previous month in 49 of
the cities monitored by the government, compared with 33 posting
decreases in October, the national statistics bureau said in a
statement on its  website  yesterday. Only five cities had gains
in home prices, according to the statement.  “Home prices will fall further as the government’s
tightening continues,” said Jinsong Du, a Hong Kong-based
property analyst for Credit Suisse Group AG. “We’ll see more
small developers file for bankruptcy or sell off their assets
next year.”  The government said last week it won’t back away from real-
estate industry curbs that are damping home sales and pulling
down prices.  China  intensified measures this year by raising
down payment and mortgage requirements and also imposed home
purchase restrictions in 40 cities.  New home prices in China’s four major cities of Shanghai,
Beijing, Shenzhen and  Guangzhou  each retreated 0.3 percent from
October, the biggest monthly falls for these metropolitan areas
this year, according to data from the statistics bureau.  The eastern port city of Ningbo and Shenyang in the north
close to the North Korean border posted the biggest month-on-
month declines of 0.6 percent, while Guiyang in the southwest
rose 0.2 percent, the most among the 70 cities.  ‘Critical Stage’  The gauge tracking property stocks on the  Shanghai
Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose 0.3 percent at the close, the only industry
group that posted a gain on the benchmark measure.  The figures came after private data also showed further
signs of cooling. China’s home prices fell for a third month in
November,  SouFun Holdings Ltd. (SFUN) , the country’s biggest real
estate website, said earlier this month based on its survey of
100 cities.  “It’s more and more clear that home prices are falling
around the country,” said Shen Jian-guang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. “It’s still the
critical stage of China’s property curbs, so the government
doesn’t want to send any signals of easing of those policies too
early as it may reverse the trend.”  Chinese developers will face challenges over the next 12 to
18 months including slowing sales, tight bank credit and
downward pressure on prices and profit margins, Moody’s
Investors Services said in a Dec. 15 report.  Vanke, Poly  November contract sales of  China Vanke Co. , the country’s
biggest developer, dropped 36 percent from last year, while
those by Poly Real Estate Group Co., the second largest, fell 28
percent. Developers typically sell homes before they are built.
Vanke shares were unchanged in Shenzhen, after falling as much
as 2.6 percent, while Poly climbed 0.9 percent, reversing a 1.5
percent decline.  Existing home prices in Beijing slid 0.7 percent from
October, while those in  Shanghai  retreated 0.5 percent,
according to the statistics bureau.  China faces slower growth in home sales and construction
next year,  Fitch Ratings  said in a report on Dec. 13, adding
that smaller builders will be “more vulnerable” as the
government maintains its property curbs.  Easing Measures?  The government may ease its measures in the second half of
next year if home prices in major cities include Beijing and
Shanghai fall 20 percent from their 2011 peaks, according to
Mizuho’s Shen. Shanghai’s new home prices gained 2.4 percent
from a year earlier in November, and those in the capital city
added 1.3 percent, according to the statistics bureau.  Residential property investments accounted for 6.1 percent
of the country’s gross domestic product last year, according to
Citigroup Inc.  Falling home prices helped drive sales last month. Housing
transactions rose 12 percent in November to 416.4 billion yuan
($65.7 billion), rebounding from a decline the previous month,
the statistics bureau said earlier this month.  China’s home prices may fall between 5 percent and 10
percent next year, Kenny Wu, a Hong Kong-based analyst at JI-
Asia Research Ltd., said before the release of yesterday’s data.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua,  Jim McDonald   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  