-- Consumer Spending Probably Rose on Autos
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2011-12-18T05:01:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/consumer-spending-in-u-s-probably-rose-as-discounts-drew-holiday-shoppers.html
Consumer spending  probably climbed
in November as Americans flocked to auto dealer showrooms and
shopped for holiday bargains, giving the  U.S. economy  a boost
heading into 2012, economists said before a report this week.  Purchases rose 0.3 percent after increasing 0.1 percent in
October, according to the median estimate of 62 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before Commerce Department figures
Dec. 23. The report may also show  incomes  grew 0.2 percent, down
from a 0.4 percent gain the prior month.  “The consumer has a little more life,” said Joe LaVorgna,
chief U.S. economist at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. in  New
York . “Spending is likely to continue to be in a modest grind
upward. The economy is improving.”  Target Corp. (TGT)   and J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  are among retailers using
discounts to draw in customers hunting for affordable gifts as
wages stagnate. Failure by Congress to extend tax breaks, and a
slump in Europe caused by the region’s debt crisis represent
risks early next year to sustaining gains in household
purchases, which account for about 70 percent of the economy.  Retailers are relying on a range of marketing moves to keep
consumers spending through Christmas. Cyber Monday came twice
this year at J.C. Penney and Sears Holdings Corp. -- once on the
day after Thanksgiving weekend and again a week later.  Target Corp. began a three-day “Almost Last Minute Sale”
on Dec. 8 with markdowns on such items as Stanley Black & Decker
Inc. coffee makers and gift card giveaways. A week earlier, the
discount chain held the “Big Toy Event” offering half off a
second item.  ‘Robust’ Sales  Pier 1 Imports Inc. is among those seeing an increase in
business without resorting to bigger price cuts.  “Sales are robust, merchandise margins are strong,
operating margins are growing,” Alexander Smith, president and
chief executive officer at Pier 1, said on a Dec. 15 conference
call. Sales during the Thanksgiving weekend “increased 10
percent from last year and were achieved with modest levels of
discount.”  Automakers also did well.  Sales  of cars and light trucks
advanced 3 percent in November to a 13.6 million seasonally
adjusted annualized rate, the best month since August 2009,
according to researcher Autodata Corp.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index of 93
companies has increased 2.9 percent since the end of last year
compared with a 3 percent decline in the broader  S&P 500 .  Fed’s View  “The economy has been expanding moderately,
notwithstanding some apparent slowing in global growth,”
Federal Reserve policy makers said in their latest statement on
Dec. 13 following a meeting. “Household spending has continued
to advance, but business fixed investment appears to be
increasing less rapidly and the housing sector remains
depressed.”  Manufacturers are profiting from growth in U.S. exports,
which reached the second-highest level on record on October,
just behind the prior month’s peak.  Demand for goods meant to last at least three years rose 2
percent in November after a 0.5 percent decline the prior month,
economists in the Bloomberg survey predicted. The Commerce
Department will release the figures on Dec. 23.  A report from the National Association of Realtors on Dec.
21 may help clarify the degree to which the housing market has
slumped over the past few years. The group will release
revisions to sales data for existing homes going back to 2007.  Sales Revision  “There are downward revisions for total sales in recent
years,” NAR spokesman Walter Molony said in a statement last
week. The market is laboring under an overhang of distressed
properties that keeps driving down prices. The drop in property
values in turn has spurred demand among investors willing to pay
cash for foreclosed properties, the group has said.  Sales of  previously owned homes  rose in November to a 5.09
million annualized rate from 4.97 million the prior month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed. The
range of estimates, from a low of 4.45 million to a high of 5.25
million, is wider than usual as some economists based their
predictions on projections for the revised readings.  A day before, the Commerce Department will report that
housing starts rose 1.1 percent last month to a 635,000 pace,
while permits, a sign of future construction, declined.  Sales of new houses, due from the Commerce Department on
Dec. 23, probably rose 2.6 percent to a 315,000 rate in
November, according to economists’ estimates.  The Conference Board’s index of leading economic indicators
will signal the world’s largest economy will keep expanding in
the first half of 2012. The gauge rose 0.3 percent in November
after a 0.9 percent gain the prior month, according to
economists’ estimates.  The outlook into 2012 hinges in part on  Europe , where
policy makers are struggling to contain a financial crisis that
began two years ago in  Greece  and is threatening to spread.
There is also fiscal policy uncertainty in the U.S., where
congressmen are debating extension of breaks on employee
withholdings and measures to cut the  budget deficit  by $1.2
trillion over 10 years.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  