-- UBS Capital Strategy Converges With Credit Suisse in Fortress Switzerland
-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a
-- 2011-12-18T23:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/credit-suisse-races-ubs-building-buffers-in-fortress-switzerland.html
UBS AG (UBSN)  and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
Switzerland’s largest banks, are finding that the advantages of
Europe’s toughest capital requirements are helping offset the
costs as the region’s sovereign-debt crisis escalates.  The two lenders shrank their balance sheets the most among
Europe’s 15 biggest banks since 2007, even as rivals grew, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. Both are further scaling down their
securities units to lift  capital ratios .  While UBS and Credit Suisse, based in Zurich, initially
resisted Swiss regulators’ efforts to introduce stricter capital
and liquidity measures starting in 2008, arguing they wouldn’t
be able to compete with international rivals, they now say the
more prudent capital and cash reserves are beneficial.  “In a market like this one, investors are looking for
solidity and safety,” UBS Chief Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti  said in an interview last month. “To have a buffer of
capital above our peers is something we think is a competitive
advantage. But at the end of the day, what is also a competitive
advantage is the solidity of Switzerland as a country.”  Ermotti, 51, announced plans last month to cut UBS’s risk-
weighted assets by 130 billion francs ($139 billion), or 33
percent, by the end of 2016. He’s following predecessor  Oswald Gruebel , who made building up capital an “overriding priority”
when he joined UBS in 2009, four months after the Swiss
government and central bank bailed out UBS.  Credit Suisse CEO Brady Dougan, 52, who led the company
through the subprime-mortgage crisis without a state rescue,
said last month the bank will eliminate 85 billion francs, or 23
percent, of risk-weighted assets by the end of 2014.  Luring Wealthy Clients  Ermotti and Dougan say fatter capital buffers help them
attract funds from wealthy clients. UBS, which got 53 percent of
pretax profit from  wealth management  in the first nine months of
the year, added 30.7 billion francs of net new funds in the
period. Credit Suisse, which generated 27 percent of earnings
from wealth management, attracted 33.8 billion francs.  The Swiss banking regulator and the  Swiss National Bank 
began pushing the lenders to clean up their balance sheets, cut
assets and boost capital amid the 2008 crisis. That gave UBS and
Credit Suisse a head start on European peers, who are now
deleveraging. Twenty-two European lenders plan to cut risk-
weighted assets by a combined 1.2 trillion euros ($1.6 trillion),
or about 15 percent, according to Kian Abouhossein, an analyst
at New York-based JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Early Resistance  From the end of 2007, when the U.S. subprime crisis was
claiming its first casualties, through this September, UBS and
Credit Suisse had already reduced their risk-weighted assets by
44 percent and 35 percent, respectively, company reports show.
The rest of the 15 largest European banks have, on average,
increased such assets by 12 percent in the period, according to
Bloomberg data.  UBS and Credit Suisse, which put up “a large amount of
initial resistance” to the regulators’ demands, became more
amenable to the changes after the September 2008 bankruptcy of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. , according to the Swiss Financial
Market Supervisory Authority’s report on lessons from the crisis
published in September 2009.  Philipp Hildebrand, then SNB vice president, proposed
limiting the banks’ leverage, or the ratio of total assets to
capital, in June 2008 after the central bank’s analysis of
financial system stability showed that cumulative assets of UBS
and Credit Suisse in 2007 exceeded the country’s annual gross
domestic product by seven times while their capital-to-assets
ratio had fallen to about 2.5 percent from 7 percent since 1995.  UBS Rescue  The banks protested that such a capital requirement was too
crude because it didn’t take into account the riskiness of
assets. Less than two weeks after the SNB’s proposal was made
public, Credit Suisse Chief Risk Officer Tobias Guldimann
rejected the idea, saying: “We manage banks according to  Basel
II , not Hildebrand I.”  The regulators’ influence increased after UBS had to turn
to the Swiss government for a capital injection of 6 billion
francs to spin off illiquid assets to an SNB fund in October
2008. The following month, the banking regulator signed into law
requirements for UBS and Credit Suisse to limit their gross
assets in proportion to capital and tighten the rules for
reserves compared with risk-weighted assets by 2013.  In 2009, the banking regulator put forward proposals for
stricter liquidity rules, and by the end of June 2010 the two
banks were required to hold enough “first-class” liquid assets
to cover at least 30 days of expenditures during a crisis. This
year, both chambers of the Swiss parliament approved law changes
to require the two banks to hold capital equal to at least 19
percent of risk-weighted assets by 2019.  Basel Rules  Few financial regulators in  Europe  acted as fast, waiting
instead for international rules from the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision.  France  and  Germany  led efforts to weaken
regulations from the committee, which softened its original
proposals and gave lenders about a decade to comply.  Banks worldwide will be required to hold capital of at
least 10.5 percent of risk-weighted assets by 2019. The
committee last week was weighing changes to a proposed liquidity
requirement, similar to the one Switzerland implemented last
year, under pressure from banks that argue it will stymie
lending. A leverage ratio requirement is still under review.  Finma Chairman Anne Heritier Lachat said the Swiss
regulator is vindicated for pushing through tougher requirements.  ‘No Choice’  The credit crisis of 2008 showed that “self-regulation
doesn’t work,” she said at a Dec. 1 event of the British-Swiss
Chamber of Commerce in Geneva. “We had to act because
 Switzerland  was in a very specific situation. The risks were
high. We had really no choice.”  Thanks to stricter rules, UBS and Credit Suisse have
cleaner and more transparent balance sheets than their rivals,
said James Breiding, who this year co-authored the book
“Wirtschaftswunder Schweiz” (Swiss Made -- The Untold Story
Behind Switzerland’s Success) with Gerhard Schwarz.  “The idea of requiring more capital is a crude way of risk
control, but it’s effective and easy to measure,” said Breiding,
a co-founder of Zurich-based asset manager Naissance Capital Ltd.
who doesn’t hold UBS and Credit Suisse shares. “During the last
crisis, UBS’s problems caught everyone completely by surprise,
but in terms of how the Swiss responded and dealt with that, I
think it was very rapid, decisive and exemplary.”  Market Rout  While bigger capital buffers haven’t made UBS and Credit
Suisse immune to the market rout as investors shun financial
companies, they may have helped lessen the impact.  UBS dropped 29 percent this year in Zurich trading, and
Credit Suisse tumbled 41 percent, compared with a 35 percent
decline in Bloomberg’s European  banking index. (BEBANKS)  The two banks
trade at price-to-book ratios that are only surpassed by  HSBC (HSBA) 
Holdings Plc and Nordea Bank AG among the 15 biggest European
lenders.  The cost of insuring against default on UBS’s debt with
credit-default swaps more than doubled in 2011, while Credit
Suisse saw a 64 percent increase. Among the region’s 15 biggest
banks, only contracts tied to London-based HSBC and Nordea of
 Stockholm  are less expensive, Bloomberg data show.  The Swiss lenders also have less risk tied to Southern
European bonds than some competitors. UBS’s net exposure to the
sovereign debt of  Italy , Belgium,  Greece , Iceland,  Spain ,
Portugal and Ireland was 1.34 billion francs at the end of
September, while Credit Suisse’s net exposure to sovereign debt
of Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece and Spain was about 900
million francs.  ‘Liquidity Profile’  UBS and Credit Suisse fare better than French banks,
Deutsche Bank AG and Barclays Plc in terms of their liquidity
profile, said Andrew Lim, an analyst at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, in a September note. He analyzed the banks’
high-quality liquid assets as a proportion of wholesale funding
maturing within one year.  “The liquidity profile of a bank is the risk metric that
investors should be most concerned about, since the absence of
liquidity quickly leads to a bank’s demise regardless of how
strongly capitalized it is,” London-based Lim wrote. “UBS and
Credit Suisse could theoretically fund themselves for about
four-fifths of a year without having to resort to the wholesale
funding markets.”  Credit Suisse’s dependence on short-term funding is down 34
percent since 2007 and its long-term liabilities exceed long-
term assets by 110 billion francs as the bank had “substantially
completed” its debt funding plan for this year, the company said
on Nov. 1.  Lower Profits  Customer deposits and long-term debt make up more than 50
percent of UBS’s funded balance sheet, up from about 40 percent
in 2007, Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil told investors on
Nov. 17. The bank also has a surplus of “well over” 100
billion francs when comparing assets and liabilities with
maturities of more than one year, he said.  While the finances of Swiss banks are being strengthened,
shareholders need to prepare for lower profits and constrained
dividend payments, said  Dirk Becker , a Frankfurt-based analyst
at Kepler Capital Markets.  Investment-bank downsizing will lead to lower revenues and
possible losses, while profitability in wealth management will
be squeezed as nations seek to repatriate non-declared funds
from Switzerland and clients trade less, Becker said.  Dividends  He said he expects Credit Suisse to cut dividends for this
year and next to 50 centimes a share from the 1.30 francs the
bank paid for 2010. UBS said last month it plans to pay 10
centimes a share for 2011, its first cash dividend in five years.  “Fortress Switzerland is being built at the expense of
shareholders, at least in the short term,” said Becker. “In
the long-term it’s of course good when you have a stable banking
system and there might be advantages coming from that at some
point. Right now the banks are only positioned well on capital,
nowhere else.”  Pain for investors is unlikely to dissuade regulators
seeking to protect stability in a country with a population of
less than 8 million sandwiched between Germany, France, Italy
and Austria. Daniel Zuberbuehler, Finma’s departing vice
chairman, told newspaper Finanz und Wirtschaft this month that
even the toughened  capital requirements  for UBS and Credit
Suisse are “too mild.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  