-- Draghi Tells Financial Times Bond Buying Unlikely as ECB Abides by Mandate
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2011-12-19T08:14:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/draghi-tells-financial-times-bond-buying-unlikely-as-ecb-abides-by-mandate.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  damped expectations that the bank will step up bond
purchases to tame the sovereign debt crisis, saying it can’t
overstep its mandate.  “People have to accept that we have to, and always will,
act in accordance with our mandate and within our legal
foundations,” Draghi told the Financial Times in an interview,
confirmed by the Frankfurt-based ECB. “The important thing is
to restore the trust of the people -- citizens as well as
investors -- in our continent. We won’t achieve that by
destroying the credibility of the ECB.”  The ECB is resisting pressure to increase its bond buying,
saying governments need to find a lasting solution to the debt
crisis. The central bank has instead focused on helping the
banking industry and will this week offer financial institutions
in the 17-nation euro area unlimited three-year loans. Draghi
said it’s up to banks to decide what to do with the money.  “One of the things that they may do is to buy sovereign
bonds,” he said. “But it is just one. And it is obviously not
at all an equivalent to the ECB stepping up bond buying. One
aspiration is to have them financing the real economy,
especially small- and medium-sized enterprises.”  Bond Yields  Spanish and Italian notes advanced last week, driving down
yields, on speculation banks bought the securities to use as
collateral when the ECB starts offering the three-year loans
tomorrow. Italian two-year yields were at 5.42 percent today
compared with 7.66 percent on Nov. 25.  The ECB has so far spent 207.5 billion euros ($270 billion)
on  government bonds  since its  program  started in May last year.
It settled 635 million euros of purchases in the week through
Dec. 9, the lowest amount since it resumed its market
interventions in August.  The ECB, which says its bond buying is aimed solely at
ensuring transmission of its  interest rates  on financial
markets, will announce last week’s purchases at 3:30 p.m. in
Frankfurt today.  Draghi said the ECB will act on behalf of  Europe ’s rescue
fund, the European Financial Stability Facility, which has been
empowered to intervene in bond markets. “Our aim is to be ready
to provide agency functions in January next year,” he said.  While the ECB’s bond-purchase program is “neither eternal
nor infinite,” it is “justified” as long as the transmission
of the ECB’s rates is impaired, Draghi said. Still, asked if the
ECB would consider capping yields, he said “monetary policy
cannot do everything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in  Frankfurt  at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  