-- Edison Board Said to Meet Dec. 21 in to Assess Capital Needs, Supply Pacts
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2011-12-18T18:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/edison-board-said-to-meet-dec-21-in-to-assess-capital-needs-supply-pacts.html
Edison SpA (EDN) ’s board is set to meet on
Dec. 21 to assess its capital needs as  Italy ’s second-largest
utility faces debt repayments and the renegotiation of supply
contracts, two people with knowledge of the plans said.  The board is expected to discuss in Milan a funding gap,
estimated at about 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) by  Standard &
Poor’s  over the next year to 24 months, said the people, who
declined to be named because the talks are private. Edison’s
credit profile will also be discussed to determine whether its
funding needs should exceed that figure, the people said.  Edison, owned by Electricite de France SA and Italian
shareholders led by  A2A SpA (A2A) , in October reported a nine-month
loss because of costly gas contracts, writedowns and higher
taxes. Edison is also renegotiating gas contracts linked to
crude  oil prices  that have obliged the power producer to pay
more for the fuel than it can sell it for.  The talks will examine strengthening Edison’s capital
structure to enable it to improve its credit profile and tap
debt markets more easily, said one of the people. A statement
may follow the meeting, the people said.  Edison’s credit profile “exhibits non-investment grade
characteristics on a standalone basis,” Moody’s Investors
Service said in a report on Dec. 7, while placing Edison’s Baa3
ratings on review for a downgrade. The ratings company said
Edison has been hit  by the weak outlook for the power and gas
industry in Italy amid a  “strained” macroeconomic environment
and oversupply of gas.  A spokesman for Edison was not immediately available. A
spokeswoman for  EDF (EDF)  declined to comment.  EDF Control  EDF, which is trying to take control of Edison, owns 20
percent of the Italian company directly and a further 30 percent
through a company known as Transalpina di Energia. A2A and its
partners own 30 percent through Transalpina.  Edison said earlier this month its forecast for 2012
earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
or Ebitda, is in line with the market’s consensus, though
reaching the target depends on the successful outcome of
negotiations for two gas contracts. Preliminary 2011 operating
results are expected to be in line with guidance of Ebitda of
“not less than 900 million euros.”  EDF and Italian shareholders have delayed implementing a
plan for the French company to take control of Edison. EDF,
based in Paris, and the shareholders said Dec. 1 takeover talks
will continue until the end of the year. Shareholders were
supposed to find an agreement by Nov. 30.  Credit Rating  EDF is concerned that continued delays in finding an
agreement are hurting Edison and have exposed the company to a
possible ratings downgrade, people with knowledge of the matter
said last week.  That has prompted EDF to consider a forced auction as a
possible solution, they said.  S&P on Dec. 5 lowered its long-and short term corporate
credit ratings on Edison to BBB-/A-3 from BBB/A-2.  On Dec. 8, the ratings company placed the long-term
corporate credit rating of A- for  Enel SpA (ENEL) , Italy’s largest
utility, on CreditWatch with negative implications.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  