-- Egypt Death Toll in Protester Clashes Rises to 10
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l ,   M a r a m   M a z e n   a n d   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m
-- 2011-12-18T17:28:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/egypt-death-toll-in-protester-clashes-rises-to-10.html
Egyptian army soldiers and
protesters demanding that the ruling generals hand over power
clashed in central Cairo for a third day after the death toll
from the violence rose to 10.  Troops lined up behind barbed wire and demonstrators hurled
rocks at each other on a street near  Tahrir Square , the focus of
a revolt that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak . About 500 were
injured in the fighting, which began Dec. 16, Health Minister
Fouad el-Nawawy said today. Videos posted online and broadcast
on private television stations showed troops dragging and
beating demonstrators. Many of those killed in the violence were
shot, the  Associated Press  said.  The violence is the latest confrontation between protesters
and the military, which took interim power after a popular
uprising that ousted Mubarak in February. The demonstrators are
demanding that soldiers give power immediately to civilians,
that army-appointed Prime Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri resign and
that the trials of former regime officials for the killing of
protesters be expedited.  “The protester standing in front of me got hit by a rock
on the head,” said Ahmed Safy Eldin, a 27-year-old engineer and
protestor on Sheikh Rihan street. “I saw shards of glass and
molotov cocktails being thrown at us from the roofs of the
nearby government buildings.”  Islamist Gains  The fighting follows two rounds of parliamentary elections,
which have been dominated by religious groups. The emergence of
an Islamist-dominated parliament may give the generals new
arguments for resisting pressure to hand over power. After the
initial ballot, a member of the ruling military council said the
assembly may not be representative enough to be entrusted with
drafting a new constitution. The army says it will stay at the
helm until a president is elected next year.  The Freedom and Justice Party, an affiliate of the Muslim
Brotherhood movement, won more than 39 percent of votes for
party lists in the second round of the poll, the state-run Al
Ahram newspaper reported. The Salafist Nour Party secured 31
percent, the Cairo-based newspaper said, citing preliminary
results. The turnout for the first phase of the second round --
runoffs are due on Dec. 21 -- was 67 percent, the head of the
electoral commission, Abdel Moez Ibrahim, said today on state
television.  Due to the complex nature of the electoral system, which
requires voters to cast ballots for both party lists and
individual candidates, the makeup of the assembly won’t be clear
until final results are announced in mid-January. Voting for the
third and final round begins on Jan. 3.  ‘Plot Against  Egypt ’  El-Ganzouri said at a press conference yesterday that
troops didn’t shoot at protesters and that the deaths by live
rounds were caused by attackers, AP reported. The military
council said on its Facebook page that groups gathered near the
government buildings were implementing “a plot against Egypt.”  Dozens of demonstrators had been camping outside the
Cabinet building for three weeks before the military began to
break up their sit-in. In Tahrir Square today, smoke billowed
out of the remains of burnt tents, which were shown in the
footage being demolished by soldiers.  The government will meet today to discuss austerity
measures to reduce record borrowing costs, the state-run Middle
East  News Agency  said Dec. 16. The  budget deficit  may reach 10
percent of gross domestic product in the fiscal year through
June, 1.4 percentage points higher than the previous forecast,
Planning Minister Fayza Aboulnaga told reporters last week.  For Related News and Information:  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  