-- Egyptian Economy Falters as Clashes in the Capital Leave 11 People Dead
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2011-12-19T09:33:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/egypt-s-economy-falters-as-return-of-uprisings-depresses-stocks-bill-sale.html
Clashes between Egyptian protesters
and the army threatened to further undermine the ailing economy,
as the benchmark index slumped the most in almost a month and
the country missed its target on the sale of Treasury bills.  Soldiers and security forces fought with demonstrators in
Cairo for a fourth day today. At least 11 people have been
killed in the latest bout of violence, which began Dec. 16 as
the army tried to disperse protesters who were demanding that
the ruling generals hand over power. About 500 people were
injured in the clashes, Health Minister Fouad el-Nawawy said. In
the North Sinai, the pipeline that exports Egyptian natural gas
to Jordan and  Israel  was attacked for the 10th time this year.  If the unrest continues, it will “increase pressure on
vital economic indicators such as currency reserves, foreign
direct investment and tourism,” said  Wael Ziada , Cairo-based
head of research at EFG-Hermes Holding SAE. “The longer such a
situation persists, the longer is the recovery.”  The government will discuss austerity measures to reduce
record borrowing costs, the state-run Middle East  News Agency 
said Dec. 16. The economy expanded at an annual rate of 1.8
percent in the fiscal year through June, compared with 5.1
percent in the previous 12 months, according to government
figures. Quarterly growth for the three months through September
was 0.4 percent, according to a Cabinet briefing document shown
to Bloomberg News last week.  Deficit to Widen  The  budget deficit  may reach 10 percent of gross domestic
product in the fiscal year through June, 1.4 percentage points
higher than the previous forecast, Planning Minister Fayza
Aboulnaga told reporters last week.  The demonstrators are demanding that soldiers hand
authority immediately to civilians, that army-appointed Prime
Minister Kamal el-Ganzouri resign and that the trials of former
regime officials over the killing of protesters be expedited.
The military, which took power after the removal of  Hosni Mubarak  from the presidency in February, has said it won’t
relinquish control until there is an elected president and a new
constitution.  “I am deeply concerned about the continuing reports of
violence in  Egypt ,” U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said in an e-mailed statement. “I urge Egyptian security forces
to respect and protect the universal rights of all Egyptians,
including the rights to peaceful free expression and assembly.”  Votes for Islamists  Egypt is in the middle of parliamentary elections that have
shown strong support for Islamist groups. Turnout in the second
phase of the vote was about 67 percent, the head of the
electoral commission, Abdel Moez Ibrahim, said late yesterday on
state television. The Freedom and Justice Party, an affiliate of
the Muslim Brotherhood movement, won more than 39 percent of the
party-lists votes, the largest share in the second round, the
state-run Al Ahram newspaper reported.  Due to the complexity of the electoral system, which
requires voters to cast ballots for individuals as well as party
slates, the makeup of parliament won’t be known until after
final results are announced in mid-January, nor will it be clear
until then where the balance of power lies among the assembly,
the army and the Cabinet.  El-Ganzouri said at a press conference yesterday that
troops didn’t shoot at protesters and that the deaths by live
rounds were caused by attackers, the  Associated Press  reported.
The military council said on its Facebook page that groups that
gathered near government buildings were implementing “a plot
against Egypt.”  Pipeline Blast  Unidentified attackers planted two explosive devices
beneath a gas-export pipeline near the city of El Arish as it
was being repaired following a similar attack last month, the
Oil Ministry said in a faxed statement yesterday. There were no
casualties, it said.  The  EGX 30 Index  dropped 3.5 percent, the most since Nov.
22, to 3,782.74 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo yesterday,
extending its slump this year to 47 percent.  The  Finance Ministry  raised 2.3 billion pounds ($382
million) in 273-day securities yesterday, compared with the 3.5
billion pounds it was seeking, according to data on Bloomberg.
The average yield rose seven basis points, or 0.07 of a
percentage point, to 15.209 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net ;
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 