-- Egypt Shares Fall Most in Month After Deadly Clashes in Cairo; Comi Drops
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 2011-12-18T14:05:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/egypt-shares-fall-most-in-month-after-deadly-clashes-in-cairo-comi-drops.html
Egyptian shares tumbled the most in
almost a month after clashes in Cairo this weekend left 10 dead,
raising concern economic growth will slow further.  Saudi
Arabia ’s  measure (SASEIDX)  rose for a third day on  Sabic (SABIC) ’s dividend plan.  Orascom Construction Industries , Egypt’s biggest publicly
traded builder, declined to the lowest level since Oct. 10.
 Commercial International Bank Egypt SAE (COMI)  lost the most in a
month. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  dropped 3.5 percent, the most since Nov.
22, to 3,782.74 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, extending its
slump this year to 47 percent. Persian Gulf shares rose, with
the  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index (BGCC200)  adding 0.2 percent. The Tadawul All
Share Index strengthened 0.2 percent, adding 1.2 percent over
the past three days, the longest streak of gains since the four
days ended Oct. 10.  Violence in the Egyptian capital flared when the army and
police moved to end a sit-in outside the Cabinet headquarters.
The clashes followed the second round of parliamentary
elections, the first vote after the ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak  in February. The turmoil that accompanied the revolution
slowed economic growth in the fiscal year that ended in June to
1.8 percent, from 5.1 percent in the previous 12 months.  “Investors were hoping for more stability amid phase two
of the elections, and this weekend violence killed these
hopes,” said Wafik Dawood, director of international sales at
Mega Investments Securities in Cairo. The confrontation with the
military “could lead to more escalation,” he said.  The exchange closed for almost two months this year amid
the country’s uprising.  Budget Deficit  The government has raised its target for the budget deficit
in the fiscal year through June to 10 percent of gross domestic
product from 8.6 percent, Planning Minister Fayza Aboulnaga told
reporters last week.  The clashes, which state-run Nile News said injured 494
people, citing the Health Ministry, were reminiscent of the
start of this year’s popular revolt in January “in terms of
violence, weapons, and again, many unanswered and unjustified
occurrences,” said Omar Darwish, an equity sales trader at
Cairo-based Commercial International Brokerage Co.  Orascom Construction fell 3.8 percent to 204.08 pounds,
while Commercial International,  Egypt ’s biggest publicly traded
lender, declined 4.9 percent to 20.59 pounds.  Saudi Stocks Gain  Saudi Arabia’s gauge rose after Saudi Basic Industries
Corp., the world’s largest petrochemical company known as Sabic,
proposed paying the highest annual cash dividend since 2005.  “The Saudi market is gaining on Sabic’s dividend,” which
is stirring optimism about upcoming earnings releases at other
Saudi companies, said Dubai-based Ibrahim Masood, who helps
manage about $400 million at  Mashreqbank PSC. (MASQ)   The Riyadh-based company advanced 1.1 percent to 94.75
riyals after its board recommended a second-half dividend of 3
riyals a share after paying 2 riyals for the first six months,
it said in a statement today.  Dubai’s DFM General Index increased 0.4 percent, while  Abu
Dhabi ’s  ADX General Index (ADSMI)  fell less than 0.1 percent and Oman’s
dropped 0.1 percent. Kuwait’s measure added 0.2 percent.
Exchanges in Qatar and Bahrain were closed for a holiday.  Israel’s TA-25 Index climbed less than 0.1 percent. The
rate on the 5.5 percent Mimshal Shiklit notes due January 2022
dropped six basis points to 4.59 percent, the lowest level since
Nov. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ; Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at
   mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  