-- Heineken Enlists Dos Equis to Win Back U.S.
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2011-12-18T23:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/heineken-enlists-dos-equis-to-win-back-u-s-.html
The producer of Heineken beer is
only too happy to make room on U.S. store shelves for an upstart
Mexican brand.  Heineken NV’s (HEIA)  flagship beer has lost U.S. market share to
the likes of  Belgium ’s Stella Artois over the last five years,
according to Euromonitor International data. Now it’s getting a
boost in its fight against the competition with its fast-growing
Mexican beer brand, Dos Equis, which Heineken acquired in 2010.  Dos Equis is “our shining star” in the U.S., John Nicolson, the head of the company’s Americas unit, said in an
interview at Heineken’s headquarters in Amsterdam.  Heineken, the ubiquitous Dutch beer sold in the U.S. since
1933, has been attempting to regain lost ground with a new
global marketing campaign, and by pushing its brand more
aggressively in bars and restaurants. The Americas, including
the U.S. and  Brazil , is Heineken’s second-biggest market after
Western Europe, accounting for 23 percent of the brewer’s 8.36
billion-euro ($10.9 billion) first-half sales.  Dos Equis is on a tear. Sales of the brand, named for the
two Xs on its label, soared 17 percent in the quarter through
October, compared with Heineken’s 1 percent sales drop and
industry-wide declines of about 2 percent, according to research
by Sanford C. Bernstein analyst  Trevor Stirling .  At the core of Dos Equis’s success is a highly effective
marketing push, Nicolson said, including its “Most Interesting
Man in the World” ad campaign, featuring the tales of one
worldly man’s experiences -- and the catchphrase “I don’t
always drink beer, but when I do, I prefer Dos Equis.”  Cult Following  The ads have been described as “one of the best
advertising campaigns in the U.S.” by Anthony Bucalo, an
analyst at Banco Santander SA. Created by  Euro RSCG , a unit of
Havas SA, they have gained a cult following.  Heineken stock has dropped about 7 percent this year,
compared with a 3.3 percent decline for larger competitor
 SABMiller Plc (SAB)  and industry leader  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV’s (ABI)  4.4
percent gain. The shares fell 7.6 percent on Aug. 24 after the
Dutch brewer said full-year profit is unlikely to grow amid
tough economic conditions in western Europe and the U.S.  Dos Equis represents just 0.6 percent of the U.S. beer
market by volume, compared with Heineken’s 2.2 percent in 2011,
Euromonitor, a London-based consumer-research company,
estimates. Heineken acquired the brand, along with Tecate among
others, when it bought Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB’s beer
unit in a takeover valued at 5.4 billion euros.  ‘Awesome Brand’  Dos Equis is an “awesome brand,” Santander’s Bucalo said.
Its “very broad consumer base” may aid the brand’s popularity,
he said.  “It’s not limited to hipsters in Vermont drinking
microbrews, or blue-collar workers drinking Bud.”  The little Dos Equis engine, though, can’t pull the entire
Heineken train up the hill. The Heineken brand’s U.S. market
share slid from 2.6 percent in 2006 to 2.3 percent in 2010,
according to  Euromonitor  data. The company has been scaling back
some distribution outlets in the U.S. after becoming “too
ubiquitous” during the early 1990s, Nicolson said.  Fortunately, Heineken, too, which accounted for 18 percent
of the consolidated volume of beer sold last year globally, is
benefiting from some effective repositioning and marketing.  New television ads this year, created by Wieden+Kennedy and
depicting Bacchanalian whirls through parties and restaurants in
“The Entrance” and “The Date,” have improved the beer’s
image over the last nine months, Nicolson said.  ‘Marketing Got Lost’  “Dos Equis has done well because of its very good
advertising,” said Andrew Holland, an analyst at Societe
Generale SA in London. “Heineken used to be the master of good,
quirky advertising and they don’t seem to have managed that” in
the last few years. If the company continues to invest time and
money on promoting the Heineken brand, they could start to see
growth again, he said.  “We’ve got some momentum back” for the Heineken brand,
Nicolson said. “Our marketing got lost, and we changed tack too
many times.” The pace of decline in Heineken sales has slowed
and consumers are viewing the brand more positively, he said.  Still, competitors are continuing to threaten Heineken’s
market share, including  Stella Artois , which AB InBev has been
promoting to Heineken’s traditional strongholds in urban
centers. AB InBev, one of the largest beer makers in the U.S.,
was formed when InBev NV took over Budweiser maker Anheuser-
Busch Cos. in 2008 for $52 billion.  “There’s still a lot more that AB InBev can do with Stella
in the U.S., and that’s got to be an ever-constant threat to
brand Heineken,” Holland at SocGen said.  Volume Growth  The Heineken brand grew 3.9 percent in volume in the four
weeks ended Nov. 26, Ian Shackleton, an analyst at Nomura, said
in a note, citing AC Nielsen data. Dos Equis Especial bounced 25
percent.  Still, Bucalo at Santander is skeptical that Heineken will
show much improvement. “A lot of the big macro brands have
about 25-year life cycles where they start to peak out, and
start declining,” he said.  Heineken “hit that point in the
middle of the last decade,” he said.  “They really let Heineken go and they’re paying the price
for it,” he said. “They can stabilize the business, but the
future of Heineken USA is in the Dos Equis brand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  