-- Eldorado Falls the Most in Two Years Amid Plan to Buy European Goldfields
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l   a n d   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2011-12-19T22:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/eldorado-to-buy-european-goldfields-for-2-41-billion-to-expand-in-europe.html
Eldorado Gold Corp. (ELD)  fell the most in
three years after it agreed to buy  European Goldfields Ltd. (EGU)  for
about C$2.5 billion ($2.4 billion) in what would be its biggest
acquisition.  Eldorado plunged 13 percent to close at C$13.46 in Toronto,
the biggest drop since Dec. 1, 2008.  European Goldfields (EGU) 
declined 4.7 percent to C$11.28.  The shares-and-cash bid valued European Goldfields at the
equivalent of C$13.08 a share, Vancouver-based Eldorado said
yesterday in a statement. That was 10 percent more than the
price on Dec. 16 and 31 percent more than the close on Dec. 5,
before Whitehorse, Canada-based European Goldfields said it had
received takeover offers.  It’s “not unusual” for an acquirer to decline after
announcing a transaction that involves issuing shares, David Christensen, chief executive officer and portfolio manager at
ASA Ltd. in  San Mateo ,  California , said in a telephone
interview. ASA’s closed-end fund has about $600 million assets
under management, including Eldorado shares.  Eldorado would increase its share count by 28 percent as a
result of the transaction, based on 551.5 million shares
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. European
Goldfields shareholders would own about 22 percent of the
combined company after the deal closes, the companies said.  ‘Lower Cash Costs’  The acquisition would give Eldorado a mine and projects in
 Greece , Romania and Turkey and help more than double annual
output by 2015, it said. It follows Gold-Ore Resources Ltd.’s
C$150 million accord to buy Canada’s Astur Gold Corp. last week,
after prices for the precious metal climbed to a record in
September amid 10 straight years of gains.  Eldorado’s deal “adds more growth at lower cash costs,”
Brad Humphrey, a mining analyst at Raymond James Ltd., said by
telephone from Toronto. Humphrey has an “outperform” rating on
Eldorado.  The bid was priced at 5.1 times European Goldfields’ assets
compared with 2.2 times for 10 comparable deals, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Eldorado is the fifth-biggest gold
company in  Canada  by market value.  European Goldfields jumped 22 percent on Dec. 6 after
saying it received “preliminary and indicative approaches from
third parties.” Centerra Gold Inc., a Toronto-based producer,
had expressed interest in the company, the London-based Sunday
Times reported Dec. 11, citing people it didn’t identify.  ‘Ability for Growth’  The combined company would produce 650,000 ounces of gold a
year and more than 1.5 million ounces by 2015 as projects come
on stream, European Goldfields said. The company’s dividend will
stay unchanged “with enhanced ability for growth” as European
Goldfields’ development projects are built, Eldorado said.  Gold for February delivery fell 0.1 percent to settle at
$1,596.70 an ounce on the Comex in  New York . The futures reached
a record $1,923.70 an ounce on Sept. 6.  “Eldorado has a strong asset base in  Turkey  and Greece and
was always the most obvious suitor,” London-based Numis
Securities Ltd. said today in a note to investors. “Given the
friendly nature of the bid, the immediate share premium and the
synergies with Eldorado, we do not expect a bidding war to break
out.”  Qatari Deal Delay  The C$13.08-a-share offer represents a 20 percent premium
over the average price over the past 20 days. That compares with
a 26 percent average premium for global gold deals announced in
the past 12 months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Eldorado said its offer, agreed to by both boards, is
backed by BlackRock Investment Management (UK) Ltd., which owns
a 7.3 percent stake in European Goldfields. The largest holder
in European Goldfields is Greece’s  Ellaktor SA (ELLAKTOR) , which owns a
12.2 percent stake via its Aktor unit, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The proposal requires approval of two-thirds of European
Goldfields shareholders at a meeting planned for mid-February.
Eldorado offered 0.85 of its shares and 0.001 Canadian cent for
each share of European Goldfields. The target company plans to
postpone a Dec. 22 shareholders meeting that had been scheduled
to approve a financing transaction with Qatar Holding LLC until
after the shareholders vote on the acquisition.  European Goldfields announced Oct. 3 it had agreed to a
$600 million loan from Qatar Holding, which previously acquired
9.9 percent of the company and an option on another 5.1 percent
from Ellaktor, to help fund its Greek projects. The loan
agreement, which needs European Goldfields shareholder approval,
included warrants that would allow Qatar Holding to increase its
stake to 29 percent of the company.  ‘Broad Developments’  “We’ve kept the Qataris abreast of broad developments as
this process has emerged,” Timothy Morgan-Wynne, European
Goldfields’ chief financial officer, said on a conference call
to discuss the Eldorado transaction.  The company will have the capacity to fully fund its
expansion and development plans internally, Eldorado CEO Paul
Wright said on a later conference call with analysts and
investors.  Prior to the European Goldfields deal, Eldorado’s biggest
acquisition was the A$2 billion ($1.98 billion) takeover of Sino
Gold Mining Ltd. in 2009. The company offered A$3.4 billion for
 Australia ’s Andean Resources Ltd. in September 2010. Eldorado
later withdrew the bid after it was trumped by Goldcorp Inc.’s
A$3.6 billion offer.  European Goldfields operates the Stratoni mine and received
permits in July for its Skouries and Olympias projects in Greece
after a five-year wait. The company also has an 80 percent stake
in a gold and silver mining operation in  Romania  and is
exploring in the Ardala region of northeastern Turkey.  European Goldfields is being advised by BMO Capital
Markets, Lazard & Co. and law firm Stikeman Elliott LLP.
Eldorado is being advised by GMP Securities LP, Bank of America
Corp. and law firm Borden Ladner Gervais LLP.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Frank at 
 sfrank9@bloomberg.net  