-- Emirates NBD Price Estimate Cut 20% at HC on Loans, Possible Amlak Deal
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w
-- 2011-12-18T04:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/emirates-nbd-price-estimate-cut-20-at-hc-on-loans-possible-amlak-deal.html
Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the  United Arab
Emirates ’ biggest bank by assets, had its price estimate cut 20
percent at HC Brokerage, citing rising loan-loss charges and a
possible acquisition of mortgage lender  Amlak Finance PJSC .  “We think an Emirates NBD acquisition of Amlak has become
more likely and believe Emirates NBD may also have to absorb
some of the refinancing needs of government owned entities in
2012, particularly if European and U.S. banks reduce their
exposure to the region,” analysts Jaap Meijer and Kareem Ghaly
wrote in a note dated today.  The shares of Amlak Finance, an Islamic mortgage company
part-owned by  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , were suspended in November
2008 after the global credit crisis blocked their access to
borrowings. A government committee studying an overhaul of Amlak
“continues to explore the possibilities of a balance-sheet
restructuring,” the company said in November.  Emirates NBD’s price estimate was cut to 3.9 dirhams from
4.9 dirhams “to reflect the bank’s relatively poor earnings
outlook, a potential increase in the concentration risk of its
loan portfolios, the negative impact of the Dubai Bank
acquisition, and a potential acquisition of Amlak,” HC
Brokerage said. The recommendation on the shares was lowered to
“neutral” from “overweight.”  Emirates NBD is one of the biggest creditors to Dubai
World, one of the emirate’s three main state-owned holding
companies that reached a deal in March to delay payments on $25
billion of loans. It is also a key lender to units of Dubai
Holding LLC, one of whose investment companies is in talks with
banks to reschedule at least $10 billion of liabilities. The
bank in October took over the unprofitable Dubai Bank on orders
from the emirate’s ruler.  Emirates NBD may need to set aside as much as 8 billion
dirhams ($2.2 billion) by the end of 2013 to cover for bad 
loans,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc (GS)  said in a note on Dec. 7.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  