-- European Ministers Seek $261B in IMF Funds
-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 2011-12-19T15:09:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/european-finance-ministers-to-discuss-crisis-tomorrow-as-confidence-wanes.html
European finance ministers sought to
meet a self-imposed deadline for drawing additional aid to the
debt crisis and to form new budget rules as investor confidence
that a comprehensive solution is achievable wanes.  Euro-area finance ministers held a conference call
beginning at 3:30 p.m. Brussels time to discuss 200 billion
euros ($261 billion) in additional funding through the
 International Monetary Fund  and the mechanics of a so-called
fiscal compact that was negotiated at a Dec. 9 European Union
summit, according to two people familiar with the planning.  “They’ll try to get as much done as they can before
Christmas, but it’s doubtful they’ll put markets in a Christmas
mood,”  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING Group in Brussels,
said in an interview. “There is still so much uncertainty.”  The accord to ratchet up budget rules failed to ease
concern that the monetary union risks buckling under the weight
of the two-year-old crisis.  Fitch Ratings  lowered  France ’s
credit outlook and put other euro-area nations on review Dec.
16, saying an overall crisis solution may be “technically and
politically beyond reach.”  Belgium ’s rating was cut two levels
to Aa3 by Moody’s Investors Service on the same day.  ECB Bond Purchases  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  damped
expectations the bank will step up bond purchases to tame rising
borrowing costs, telling the Financial Times in an interview
published today that the bank can’t overstep its mandate.  “People have to accept that we have to, and always will,
act in accordance with our mandate and within our legal
foundations,” Draghi was cited as saying. “The important thing
is to restore the trust of the people -- citizens as well as
investors -- in our continent. We won’t achieve that by
destroying the credibility of the ECB.”  Euro-area officials aim to meet their deadline for today to
arrange the IMF loans. The package entails about 150 billion
euros pledged by euro-area central banks and another 50 billion
euros to be contributed by non-euro EU states. The euro-area
ministers were due to be joined in the call by their EU
counterparts to thrash out measures including the decision-
making process of the bloc’s permanent bailout fund, the
European Stability Mechanism, one of the people said.  “This deadline decided by the heads of states and
governments is a political deadline not a legal deadline,”
European Commission spokesman Olivier Bailly told reporters in
Brussels today.  No ‘Urgent Need’  While leaders including Luxembourg’s Jean-Claude Juncker
have expressed confidence that the deadline will be met,
 Germany ’s Bundesbank said Dec. 16 it saw no “urgent need” to
reach a decision, suggesting it could be delayed.  The euro lost 2.5 percent against the  U.S. dollar  last week
after the Brussels summit and extended the loss today, sliding
0.2 percent to trade at $1.3023 at 4:07 p.m. Frankfurt time. The
U.K.’s refusal to sign on to an EU-wide treaty change locking in
new debt rules exposed divisions within the bloc and forced
euro-region leaders to come up with a legal framework to patch
together budget rules.  “The systematic nature of the euro zone crisis is having a
profoundly adverse effect on economic and financial stability
across the region,” Fitch said in a note. The growing
uncertainty is overshadowing countries’ reform efforts, it said.  Fitch placed  Spain ,  Italy , Belgium,  Slovenia , Ireland and
Cyprus on a “Rating Watch Negative” review. It cited the ECB’s
failure to act as a financial backstop as contributing to its
decision last week.  Stark’s Disappointment  Divisions within the ECB on bond buying were revealed by
departing ECB Executive Board Member Juergen Stark, who told the
German magazine WirtschaftsWoche in an interview that his
decision to leave derived from his disappointment over “how
this monetary union has evolved.” He criticized the bond
purchases.  The U.K. is weighing whether to commit more funds to the
IMF. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s spokesman said Dec. 14 that
the U.K. hadn’t agreed to increase its IMF contribution, fending
off a report in the Daily Telegraph newspaper that the nation’s
contribution might rise by 30 billion pounds ($46.5 billion).  Today’s conference call may focus on setting a road map for
more detailed debate next month on a German-inspired budget-
stability treaty. Chancellor  Angela Merkel  demanded treaty-level
barriers against runaway debt and deficits to offer the prospect
of a future “fiscal stability union” that restores investors’
shattered confidence in  Europe ’s economic management.  The European Commission’s power to enforce deficit limits
will be strengthened, requiring a high-deficit state to amass a
super majority within the euro region to head off disciplinary
procedures, according to a draft of the text.  Governments will also be required to adopt balanced-budget
amendments with an “automatic correction mechanism.” Those
provisions will be enforced by the  European Court  of Justice and
national courts.  The treaty, to be hammered out by late January and signed
in early March, will take effect once ratified by nine of the 17
euro-area countries. EU states outside the euro will join as
they ratify, with the U.K. alone so far in refusing to sign up.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  