-- Euro Weakens Before Spanish Debt Auction; Yen, Won Decline on Kim’s Death
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-12-19T22:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/euro-near-11-month-low-amid-rating-concern-before-france-spain-debt-sales.html
The euro fell for the first time in
three days against the dollar before Spain sells securities
tomorrow as European finance ministers attempt to address the
region’s debt crisis.  The dollar rose against the yen after North Korea said
leader  Kim Jong Il  died, spurring concern instability may
increase in  Asia .  South Korea ’s won tumbled to a two-month low
as the nation boosted border and coastal defenses and considered
raising alert levels for the military. Norway’s krone was the
best performer against the euro as crude oil futures advanced
for the first time in four days.  “We think that the toughest point for the euro crisis will
be the first quarter and with that in mind it wouldn’t be a
surprise that all those that need to sell euro are just getting
out earlier rather than later,” said  David Mann , regional head
of research for the Americas at  Standard Chartered  in New York.
“The immediate problem with  North Korea  is there are so many
questions where the answer is completely unknowable.”  The euro weakened 0.4 percent to $1.2997 at 5:01 p.m. in
New York. The dollar strengthened 0.4 percent to 78.04 yen.
Europe’s common currency was little changed at 101.45 yen.  The won weakened 1.4 percent to 1,174.80, earlier touching
1,179.95, the lowest level since Oct. 7.  Annual View  Japan ’s currency has advanced 4.7 percent in 2011 against
nine developed-nation counterparts, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes, as investors sought the safest
investments amid Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis. The dollar is
the next-best performer, strengthening 1.9 percent, while the
euro has depreciated 0.9 percent.  Canada ’s dollar rose after a report showed  wholesale sales 
increased in October for a sixth straight month, led by rising
shipments of motor vehicles and machinery.  Statistics Canada 
reported sales rose 0.9 percent compared with a forecast gain of
0.1 percent.  Canada’s currency added 0.1 percent to C$1.0384 per  U.S.
dollar , after weakening to C$1.0415, the least since Dec. 14.  Norway’s krone advanced as oil, the nation’s largest
export, recovered from a near six-week low. The currency gained
0.2 percent to 5.9468 versus the dollar and gained 0.5 percent
versus the euro to trade at 7.7294.  Crude oil futures rose 0.3 percent to $94.08 a barrel in
 New York .  Oil Rises  Kim died of exhaustion two days ago, the official Korean
Central News Agency said. His death ended his 17-year rule.  The yen dropped against most of its major counterparts amid
concern a destabilization of the Korean peninsula will dim the
outlook for Japan’s economy and security. Korea’s won fell
against all its major counterparts.  “It’s the uncertainty that’s going to keep the Korean won
on the defensive and perhaps most Asian currencies on the
defensive,”  Nick Bennenbroek , head of currency strategy at
 Wells Fargo & Co . in New York, said on Bloomberg Television’s
“In The Loop.” “It also comes at a bad time because we’re
dealing with  Europe  and now this.”  Bennenbroek said he expects the Korean won to weaken to
1,200 per U.S. dollar.  The 17-nation European currency has depreciated 2.9 percent
versus the dollar this year and 6.6 percent against the yen.
After falling to its weakest level against the dollar since
January, the euro is poised to depreciate further as measures in
the derivatives market show traders expect the blueprint
unveiled by European leaders this month for a closer fiscal
accord will fail to stem the declines.  Zone Risks  “The vast majority of investors remain wary of taking on
risk on a strategic basis, with the travails of the euro zone
and continuing policy discord and economic uncertainty in the
region continuing to weigh on the single currency -- the euro
remains the strongest net sold currency across the board and has
now been steadily net sold for 14 consecutive trading
sessions,” Samarjit Shankar, a managing director for the
foreign-exchange group in Boston at Bank of New York Mellon, the
world’s largest custodial bank, with more than $26 trillion in
assets under administration wrote to clients today.  The six-month euro-dollar option butterfly, which measures
the gap in implied volatility of out-of-the money, or virtually
worthless, options and those that would likely produce a profit,
was 0.55 percentage point today.  Spain ’s Debt  Spain is due to auction three- and six-month securities
tomorrow. Spain’s two-year note yields fell eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 3.38 percent.  Euro-area governments met a target for boosting their anti-
crisis war chest with a pledge to provide 150 billion euros
($195 billion) to the  International Monetary Fund .  Four non-euro users -- the  Czech Republic , Denmark, Poland
and Sweden -- will also pitch in, Luxembourg Prime Minister
Jean-Claude Juncker said in an e-mailed statement after chairing
a teleconference of finance ministers today.  The euro may drop to the weakest level in almost a year and
a half after breaking through its low from October, according to
Bank of America Corp.  The euro is poised to fall to as low as $1.2510, a level
last reached in July 2010, after trading below $1.3146, the
lowest reached in October, said  MacNeil Curry , head of foreign-
exchange and interest-rates technical strategy at Bank of
America in New York. The shared currency needs to reach and
break through the $1.2901-$1.2859 range before dropping to
$1.2533 and then the lower level, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  