-- Gandhi Bill Strains India’s Finances to Give Cheap Food to Nation’s Poor
-- B y   P r a b h u d a t t a   M i s h r a   a n d   P r a t i k   P a r i j a
-- 2011-12-18T18:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/gandhi-bill-strains-india-s-finances-to-give-cheap-food-to-nation-s-poor.html
India  approved plans to grant the
nation’s poor the right to buy food grains at subsidized rates,
meeting a pledge by the ruling Congress party to spread the
benefits of growth while putting at risk the deficit target.  The  Food Security Bill  was approved by the Cabinet,
Information and Broadcasting Minister Ambika Soni told reporters
in New Delhi yesterday, without elaborating. The bill will need
the consent of the parliament to become law.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  is betting on the legislation,
the drafting of which was overseen by Congress party President
 Sonia Gandhi , to woo voters before elections in five states in
the first half of next year. Providing cheap grain to the poor
in India, the world’s second-biggest consumer of wheat and rice,
may inflate the subsidy bill by about 320 billion rupees ($6.1
billion) every year and widen the nation’s  fiscal deficit .  “In the current fiscal situation it will add to the
strain,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi , an economist at ratings
company Crisil Ltd., the Indian unit of  Standard & Poor’s . “You
need a social safety net, but it has to be appropriately
designed. There are so many subsidies which hardly reach” the
intended groups in India, he said.  Slowing Growth  India’s finance ministry said in a Dec. 9 report that lower
tax collections in a slowing economy and delayed plans to sell
stakes in state-owned companies may mean it may fail to meet its
goal of narrowing the  budget deficit  to a four-year low of 4.6
percent of gross domestic product in the year ending March 31.  The economy may expand 7.25 percent to 7.75 percent in the
current fiscal, less than the 9 percent growth estimated in
February, the report showed.  The government will require 950 billion rupees a year to
implement the policy, which will provide grains to 64 percent of
India’s 1.2 billion people, or about 768 million, Food Minister
K.V. Thomas told reporters last week. The government currently
spends 630 billion rupees in supplying food grain to the poor,
he said.  Every Indian falling within the so-called priority category
will get 7 kilograms (15.4 pounds) of rice or wheat or millet a
month, Thomas said. Rice may be sold at 3 rupees per kilogram,
wheat at 2 rupees and millet at 1 rupee, he said. That compares
with market prices of 24 rupees a kilogram for rice in  New Delhi 
and 15 rupees a kilogram for wheat, according to data provided
by the food ministry.  Widows, Children  The law, if passed by parliament, will enable widows,
senior citizens, pregnant women and school children to receive
cooked food, according to Thomas.  Yashwant Sinha, a leader of the main opposition  Bharatiya
Janata Party , said last week it would only decide whether to
support the bill once details had emerged.  The Food Security Bill will fulfill an election pledge by
Singh’s Congress party in 2009 that it will supply 25 kilograms
of rice or wheat at below-market rates to poor families each
month if voted back to power.  Singh, 79, who as finance minister in the early 1990s
engineered India’s move away from a state-controlled economy,
has shifted his focus in his terms as prime minister since 2004
toward direct support for the poor, in a nation where the  World
Bank  says more than 75 percent of the people live on less than
$2 a day.  He enacted a jobs plan in 2006 that gives 100 days’ work a
year to any rural household that requests it, and this year
indexed the pay rates to the pace of  inflation . Singh has been
guided by Gandhi, the head of the National Advisory Council, in
formulating these policies.  Street Protests  Singh’s government is bidding to get its policy agenda back
on track after a year spent countering allegations of corruption
reaching to the heart of his administration. Opposition and
street protests over charges of graft and inflation that has
stuck above 9 percent this year have further weakened Singh.  The government will need 61 million metric tons of food
grains to implement the law compared with its annual purchase of
about 55 million tons from farmers, Thomas said.  “In case the government doesn’t have sufficient grains to
distribute, people will receive cash to buy grains from the
market,” he said.  State stockpiles  were 54.8 million tons as of Dec. 1,
compared with 48.6 million tons a year earlier, according to
state-run Food Corp. of India.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Prabhudatta Mishra at 
 pmishra8@bloomberg.net ;
Pratik Parija in New Delhi at 
 pparija@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at   jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  