-- Gillard Says She’ll Stay as Labor Party Leader for 2013 General Election
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2011-12-18T13:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/gillard-says-she-ll-lead-labor-party-in-2013-australian-election.html
Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said
she’s the best person to lead  Australia ’s  Labor Party  through
“turbulent days” to the next election as speculation increased
over a challenge to her leadership.  Gillard last week promoted a number of politicians who
helped her topple former Prime Minister  Kevin Rudd  in a June
2010 coup, as her personal standing jumped to the highest level
since May, according to a Dec. 5 Newspoll. Speculation about
growing support for Rudd, now Australia’s foreign minister,
continued after her Cabinet changes.  “What we need is someone with the calm and method to
deliver some big changes during turbulent days,” Gillard told
the Sun-Herald newspaper yesterday, as part of end-of-year
interviews published in Australian newspapers over the weekend.
“That requires someone who doesn’t get much buffeted by the
twists and turns but is just, in a very determined way, with
some resistance and perseverance, staying on a path -- and I
think I’m good at that.”  Public satisfaction with Gillard’s performance rose to 36
percent from 34 percent three weeks ago, according to the poll
published in the Australian newspaper. The survey was taken Dec.
2 to Dec. 5 after her government passed laws on carbon and
mining taxes and signed a defense accord with the U.S.  Gillard leads a minority government after replacing Rudd in
a late-night coup last year. Labor Party members moved to depose
Rudd after poor poll ratings amid a battle with miners including
 BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  over his plans for a 40 percent tax on
resources profits and after he reneged on a promise to introduce
a carbon tax.  Lead to Election  Gillard said she will lead Labor to an election in 2013.  “We have defied predictions and achieved more, with more
stability, than many people thought possible at this time last
year,” she told the Sun-Herald.  Gillard’s increased popularity is helping rebuild support
for her Labor government, which trails opposition leader  Tony Abbott ’s Liberal-National coalition 46 percent to 54 percent,
according to the Dec. 5 poll.  In the Cabinet reshuffle, Gillard promoted Bill Shorten to
workplace relations minister, tasking the former union official
with managing employment disputes amid criticism by business of
her government’s labor laws.  She also added the industry department to Climate Change
Minister  Greg Combet ’s responsibilities, named Tanya Plibersek
as health minister and moved Nicola Roxon from the health
portfolio to become the nation’s first female attorney-general.  Ministers’ Discontent  Discontent about the new appointments, which saw ministers
Kim Carr and Robert McClelland demoted, sparked a group of
senior ministers to swing their support behind Rudd, the
Australian Broadcasting Corp. reported Dec. 16 without saying
where it obtained the information.  Resources Minister Martin Ferguson on Dec. 15 refused to
back Gillard, saying instead that he was loyal to the Labor
Party, the ABC said.  In her interviews, Gillard, 50, said her priorities for
next year would include implementing a price on  carbon emissions 
from July 1, the government’s mining tax, aged-care reforms and
keeping a strong focus on the economy, including returning the
world’s biggest exporter of  iron ore , coal and alumina to a
 budget surplus  by 2013.  Europe ’s debt crisis is making it harder for the government
to meet its pledge to return to a surplus, Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said last month.  Strong Fundamentals  Still, Australia’s economy retained strong fundamentals
with solid economic growth, low public debt levels and a A$455
billion ($454 billion) investment pipeline in resources, Swan
said in his economic note yesterday.  “Our situation could not be more different to those
European nations that are crumbling under the weight of weak and
negative growth, mass unemployment and unsustainable debt
levels,” he said.  Speculation that Gillard, the nation’s first female prime
minister, faced a leadership challenge was reported in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  