-- Patriots Snap Broncos’ Tebow-Led Win Streak as Packers, Jets, Giants Lose
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2011-12-19T05:25:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/green-bay-packers-lose-first-game-as-colts-end-winless-slide-giants-fall.html
Tim Tebow  and the  Denver Broncos  had
their six-game winning streak halted by the  New England
Patriots , while the  Green Bay Packers ’ pursuit of an unbeaten
National Football League season ended in Kansas City.  Both New York teams lost ground yesterday in the playoff
push, with the Giants falling to the Washington Redskins 23-10
and the Jets getting routed by the Philadelphia Eagles 45-19.  The Patriots beat the Broncos 41-23 in Denver, taking
advantage of three turnovers to score 20 straight points in the
second quarter and erase a 16-7 deficit. Tom Brady threw two
touchdown passes and also ran for a score as New England
improved its record to 11-3, clinched the American Football
Conference’s East division title and a playoff berth.  “We put the ball on the ground and that’s something you
can’t do versus a great team,” said Tebow, who fumbled once.  The Broncos fell to 8-6 with their second loss since Tebow
took over as starting quarterback. Denver remains in first place
in the AFC West as the Oakland Raiders (7-7) lost to the
visiting Detroit Lions 28-27 after giving up two touchdowns in
the final five minutes and three seconds.  The Chiefs beat  Green Bay  19-14 at Arrowhead Stadium,
snapping the Packers’ run of 19 straight wins, the second
longest in NFL history. The Packers fell to 13-1 on the season
and Kansas City won for the second time in its past seven games
to improve to 6-8. The loss prevented Green Bay from ensuring it
played at home throughout the playoffs.  “What’s disappointing to me is we didn’t clinch home-field
advantage,” Packers coach Mike McCarthy said at a news
conference. “I viewed an undefeated season as gravy.”  Colts Get First Win  There also won’t be a winless team this season. The
Indianapolis Colts beat the Tennessee Titans 27-13 to avoid the
possibility of becoming the second NFL team to finish 0-16.  The  Baltimore Ravens  lost to the San Diego Chargers 34-14
last night, yet locked up at least a wild card berth with the
losses by the Jets, Raiders and Titans yesterday.  The Ravens (10-4) are a half-game behind Pittsburgh in the
AFC North, with the Steelers visiting the San Francisco 49ers
tonight. Pittsburgh (10-3) also was assured a playoff berth
yesterday. The Chargers (7-7) have won three straight games to
pull within a game of Denver in the AFC West.  The Jets had their three-game winning streak halted in
Philadelphia to fall to 8-6 and into a tie with the  Cincinnati
Bengals  for the AFC’s final wild-card playoff berth. The Bengals
beat the St. Louis Rams 20-13.  Giants Lose Ground  The Giants lost for the fourth time in five games to fall
one game behind the first-place  Dallas Cowboys  in the National
Football Conference’s East division. With two regular-season
games left, the Giants fell to 7-7, while  Dallas  is 8-6 after a
31-15 win against Tampa Bay two days ago.  “We still control our destiny,” said Giants quarterback
 Eli Manning , who threw three interceptions.  The Giants and Jets meet Dec. 24 in a game that has playoff
implications for both teams before the Giants host Dallas to end
the regular season on Jan. 1. At 6-8, the Eagles  still have an
outside chance to win the division, with games against Dallas
and  Washington  remaining.  Drew Brees passed for 412 yards and five touchdowns as the
New Orleans Saints (11-3) pushed their winning streak to six
games with a 42-20 victory against the Minnesota Vikings.  The Lions (9-5) are in position for one of the NFC’s two
wild-card spots, moving two games ahead of the Giants, Chicago
Bears, Seattle Seahawks and Arizona Cardinals, who are all 7-7.  The Seahawks beat the Bears 38-14 yesterday and the
Cardinals topped the Cleveland Browns 20-17 in overtime.  The Atlanta Falcons (9-5) are well positioned for the NFC’s
other wild-card berth after beating the Jacksonville Jaguars
41-14 to start Week 15 on Dec. 15.  Chiefs Win   In  Kansas City , the Chiefs shut out the Packers in the
opening half in winning their first game since coach Todd Haley
was fired and replaced on an interim basis by defensive
coordinator Romeo Crennel.  “It was a tough week around here and I’m sure everybody is
feeling pretty good right now,” said Chiefs quarterback Kyle Orton, whose team entered the game as the 13.5-point underdog,
according to oddsmakers.  The Redskins opened a 17-0 first-half lead in sending the
Giants to their third straight loss at MetLife Stadium in East
Rutherford,  New Jersey . The Giants scored their only touchdown
with 33 seconds left.  The Jets fell behind 28-0 during the second quarter in
Philadelphia, where  LeSean McCoy  rushed for three touchdowns to
help the Eagles win their second straight game.  The  Carolina Panthers  ended the Houston Texans’ run of
seven consecutive victories, winning 28-13 behind two touchdown
passes from Cam Newton. The  Miami Dolphins  held off the  Buffalo
Bills  30-23 in yesterday’s other game.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  