-- India Inflation Persisting as Deficient Roads Conspire With Power Shortage
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2011-12-19T10:21:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/india-inflation-persisting-as-deficient-roads-conspire-with-power-shortage.html
Truck driver Sujan Singh should be
delivering cars to Mumbai from  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) ’s plant
near  New Delhi . Instead, he’s sitting at a roadside cafe by one
of India’s busiest highways, waiting for the traffic to ease.  “I’ll start again in the evening and travel through the
night as you face huge congestion during the daytime,” he said,
enjoying the warmth of a burning pile of trash in the New Delhi
winter air. “Most of the highways are just single lanes and the
roads are so uneven and bad that that it causes accidents.”  India’s failure to upgrade its 4.2 million kilometers (2.6
million miles) of roads, close a 10 percent power deficit and
ease congestion at ports is hobbling the central bank’s efforts
to beat  inflation . Even after raising  interest rates  by a record
375 basis points in 1 1/2 years, wholesale prices have risen
more than 9 percent for 12 straight months. The bank says supply
bottlenecks that push up costs must be tackled.  The country of 1.2 billion people is paying for two decades
of neglect. While  China  20 years ago went on a multitrillion
dollar spending spree for roads, railways, ports and power
stations, its South Asian neighbor concentrated on services. Now,
as China reins in prices and expands industry inland to restrain
wages, India’s near record-low rupee and price gains are damping
 consumer spending  and choking off company earnings.  “India has allowed a large number of cars without creating
enough roads; a large number of industries without enough power
to run them,” said Sunil Sikka, president of Havells India Ltd.,
the nation’s second-largest electrical components maker by value.
“It’s like trying to wear shoes without socks -- very, very
irritating and difficult.”  Cars and Soap  Sikka said Havells has to pay higher packaging costs to
protect lamps and switchgears from India’s bumpy roads, where
average speeds are 20 kilometers per hour (12 mph). Businesses
from Maruti to soap and food maker  Hindustan Unilever Ltd. (HUVR)  also
suffer, said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at SMC
Wealth Management Services Ltd. in New Delhi.  “All companies where there is movement of goods and
services and distribution are getting hit,” said Thunuguntla.
“It adds to their costs and affects productivity.”  Maruti, Godrej Consumer Products Ltd., and  Hero MotoCorp
Ltd. , maker of almost half the motorcycles sold in India, are
among hundreds of manufacturers that make their own electricity.  “From the beginning we took the decision to use our own
power as the power supplied by the government wasn’t reliable,”
said R.C. Bhargava, chairman of Maruti, a unit of Hamamatsu,
Japan-based Suzuki Motor Corp., which has made vehicles in India
since 1983. “Doing business in India is much costlier.”  Share Discount  The transport delays and power shortages make shares of
Indian companies less valuable than those of rivals abroad, said
Sadanand Shetty, a Mumbai-based senior  fund manager  at Taurus
Asset Management Co., which manages about $1.3 billion.  “They have to pay a huge cost,” said Shetty. “Indian
company shares trade at a discount to competitors overseas.”  Maruti’s estimated price-to-earnings ratio for this fiscal
year, a measure of how expensive a stock is within an industry,
is 14, compared with 24 for  Japan ’s Toyota Motor Corp.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Maruti shares fell as
much as 3.4 percent in Mumbai today, more than the decline of as
much as 1.9 percent in the benchmark Bombay Stock Exchange
Sensitive Index. Havells dropped as much as 6.6 percent.  The additional expenses in India add to inflation, limiting
the country’s tools to cope with a worsening global economic
outlook. The rupee, down 15 percent so far this year, is heading
for its second-worst year against the dollar since 1991, when
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh , then finance chief, began a shift
toward free-market policies.  Higher Inflation  India’s inflation is the highest among the so-called BRIC
nations, which include  Brazil , Russia and China, with its
benchmark gauge rising 9.1 percent in November from a year
before. By comparison, China’s rate eased to a 14-month low of
4.2 percent, giving its policy makers more room to support
growth as  Europe ’s debt crisis curbs exports. Russia’s pace was
6.8 percent and Brazil’s 6.6 percent.  The prime minister said in a Dec. 14 interview in New Delhi
that “if the international situation doesn’t stand in our way,
we will bring down inflation,” predicting it will come down to
“no more than 5 or 6 percent.” While international commodity
prices have pushed up costs in  India , record food production
should help ease pressures, he said.  The  International Monetary Fund  sees India’s consumer-price
inflation still outpacing China’s rate by almost 2 percentage
points by 2015.  Lasting Disadvantage  “Even if the global economic slowdown provides some relief
from inflation in the short term, India will continue to be at a
disadvantage until it fixes its problems with power, roads and
other infrastructure,” said  Arun Singh , a Mumbai-based senior
economist at Dun & Bradstreet Information Services India Pvt.  China in 2009 spent an estimated $539 billion on
infrastructure, amounting to 10.8 percent of its gross domestic
product, compared with $99 billion, or 7.5 percent of GDP, for
India, according to Morgan Stanley.  “Look at China, they first put in place all the necessary
roads, electricity, power,” said Ravi Sud, chief financial
officer of Hero MotoCorp. “That’s the reason they now have
faster growth, with manageable levels of inflation. We, on the
other hand, are still struggling to take off.”  Singh has pledged to tackle the problem with policies that
call for $1 trillion in infrastructure spending between 2012 and
2017.  ‘Huge Plans’  “India has huge plans,” said Rajat Nag, managing
director-general of the  Asian Development Bank . “It’s a
question of implementing them. It needs to accelerate the pace
of approvals, take care of environmental clearances and issues
related to land acquisition. Bottlenecks are a huge drag on the
economy.”  Targets to lay more highways and generate more electricity
have been repeatedly missed. In the year through March 2011, the
National Highways Authority of India built 1,780 kilometers of
motorways, about 30 percent less than its target. In the same
period, the nation  added  9,585 megawatts of power, 34 percent
less than forecast.  “The delays have been due to problems in land acquisition,
environmental clearances and in some cases poor performance of
contractors,” said Manoj Singh, an adviser at the nation’s
Planning Commission in New Delhi. “It would be unrealistic to
think of matching the U.S. or China in terms of infrastructure.
It would take many decades.”  Fitch Ratings  changed its outlook for Indian infrastructure
projects to negative for 2012, from stable this year, in a
report released Dec. 15, citing risks to the credit quality of
power projects, airports and toll roads.  Service Gain  India may still reap some reward from the development of
industries that don’t rely so heavily on transport networks. Its
aggregate share in global commercial services trade will exceed
China’s in the next five to six years, driven by information
technology, which accounts for about 60 percent of India’s
services exports, according to Morgan Stanley.  The country may also get some respite from inflation as a
global economic slowdown curbs demand for goods. Exports rose
10.8 percent in October from a year earlier, the least in two
years, the Commerce Ministry said Dec. 1. Factory output that
month shrank 5.1 percent from a year earlier, the first drop
since June 2009, the  Central Statistical Office  said.  That’s pushed the yield on India’s 10-year government bond
close to the level of the one-year note, showing that some
investors are betting growth in the country will slow. The
 Reserve Bank  of India in October cut its economic growth
forecast to 7.6 percent for the year through March, from 8
percent previously. RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao has said his
comfort zone for inflation is 4 percent to 6 percent.  Retail Reversal  Prime Minister Singh’s efforts to restrain prices took a
blow earlier this month when the government reversed a decision
to allow overseas retailers like Wal-Mart Stores Inc. to open
supermarkets, after failing to get support from political allies.  Singh and Commerce Minister  Anand Sharma  have said allowing
the investment would create 10 million jobs, and help rein in
inflation by reducing the 40 percent of fruit and vegetables
that rot before they get to market.  The prime minister vowed in last week’s interview to revive
the plan after regional elections next year.  India aims to award projects for 7,300 kilometers of new
roads and expressways this fiscal year, and spend 550 billion
rupees ($10.4 billion) widening existing thoroughfares,
according to the highways authority.  With 3.7 million new vehicles hitting India’s streets last
year, that’s little consolation for truck driver Singh.  Getting Worse  “I’ve been driving for 20 years and every year the traffic
gets worse,” he said, as other drivers sat at the cafe eating
dal and chapattis and waiting for the jam to disperse.  While India has the second-largest road and rail networks
in the world, even on highways -- which account for 2 percent of
all roads -- average speeds are 35 kph, compared with 80 kph in
the U.S., according to JC Bamford Excavators Ltd.  JC Bamford, which sells its yellow diggers in 150 countries,
says it takes at least nine days to move equipment 2,900
kilometers from New Delhi to Trivandrum in South India, said
Vipin Sondhi, the local unit’s chief executive officer. The
equivalent journey in the U.S. would take four days.  Once exporters finally get their goods to port, there are
more delays. The average time taken by ships to unload and load
at Indian ports is nearly 96 hours, almost 10 times longer than
in  Hong Kong , a government estimate showed last year.  “Roads are like the arteries,” said Rupa Rege Nitsure, a
Mumbai-based economist at the state-owned Bank of Baroda. “If
your arteries are clogged, your life is at risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in Mumbai at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net . 