-- Indonesia Says 217 People Missing After Asylum Seekers Boat Sinks off Java
-- B y   Y o g a   R u s m a n a   a n d   F e m i   A d i
-- 2011-12-19T10:51:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/indonesia-217-missing-after-boat-sinks-off-java.html
Indonesia rescuers found another 13
survivors today after a boat carrying asylum seekers sank in
stormy weather over the weekend, leaving more than 200 people
missing. Thirty-four people were rescued yesterday.  “They were found in Nusa Barong island, in the Jember
regency of East Java province,” Siswanto, head of the East Java
office of the National Disaster Management Agency, said by phone
today. The rescue may last seven days from the day the boat sunk,
he said.  The previous 34 survivors were moved to the immigration
office yesterday evening, Sugeng Widodo, head of the Trenggalek
office of the agency, said by phone today, adding that he didn’t
know if they would be deported.  The boat was heading to  Australia ’s Christmas Island and
had illegally entered Indonesian waters, Gagah Prakosa, a
spokesman at the National Search and Rescue Agency, said by
telephone and mobile-phone  text messages  from Jakarta yesterday.
The vessel, with the capacity to carry 100 passengers, was
overloaded with people from  Afghanistan ,  Iran ,  Saudi Arabia  and
 Turkey , the rescue agency said in a  statement  on its website.  Asylum seekers, usually from Middle Eastern countries,
often pass through Indonesian waters as they try to reach
Australia. The practice is a major political issue in Australia,
highlighted in December last year when a wooden boat crammed
with about 90 people crashed in heavy seas against the cliffs of
Christmas Island, killing as many as 50.  The island lies about 1,600 miles (2,600 kilometers)
northwest of Perth, the capital of Western Australia state.  Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  said in October
that refugees arriving by boat will still face mandatory
detention upon arrival and may then be placed within the
community. Gillard was forced to abandon a plan to handle
refugees outside the country when it was opposed by lawmakers.  “This is a terrible tragedy. People have died, there are
people still missing,” Jason Clare, Australia’s new home
affairs minister, said on Sky TV yesterday. “Our focus today is
on the search and rescue efforts and our thoughts today are with
the people who died and with the families of those still lost at
sea.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net 
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net  