-- Romney Says He Expects ‘Gordon Gekko’ Attacks If He Faces Obama
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-12-19T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/iowa-newspaper-s-backing-could-aid-romney.html
Mitt Romney  says he knows a photo in
which he appears with other executives at Bain Capital LLC
posing with cash in their hands, pockets and mouths will be used
against him if he wins the Republican presidential nomination.  The 1980s image -- called the “ Gordon Gekko ” photo by
some Democrats, a reference to the Michael Douglas character in
the movie “ Wall Street ” -- offers an easy attack line at a
time of high unemployment and sharp rhetoric against the
nation’s top money managers, investors and bankers.  “We posed for a picture, just celebrating the fact that we
had raised a lot of money and then we hoped to be able to return
it with a good return,” Romney said on “Fox News Sunday.”  Romney, a co-founder of the Boston-based private-equity
fund, said the photo was taken after the company’s first closing
on an investment fund, one that raised $37 million.  Democrats have tried to suggest that Romney is out of touch
with ordinary Americans and have pointed to his personal wealth,
including his proposed $10,000 wager with Texas Governor  Rick Perry  during a Dec. 10 debate. He is worth as much as $250
million, according to a financial disclosure he filed in August.  If he wins his party’s nomination, the former Massachusetts
governor said he expects free enterprise will be “on trial” as
he campaigns against President  Barack Obama  in 2012.  Job Losses ‘Unfortunate’  Romney, appearing in his first weekend news program
interview in almost two years, said job losses were an
“unfortunate” part of Bain’s investments in companies, adding
that in a sound economy people should be able to find new jobs.  “Our intent in every case was to either help people
realize their dreams by starting a business or taking a business
that was failing or underperforming and making it more
successful,” he said.  Romney presented a business effort that contrasts with the
Gekko character in the movie.  “My business was not buying things, taking them apart,
closing them down,” he said. “My business was associated with
trying to make enterprises more successful. Not always was I
able to succeed. But in each case, we tried to grow an
enterprise.”  The Los Angeles Times  reported  earlier this month that four
of the 10 top dollar investments by Bain under Romney’s
leadership went bankrupt.  Downside of Reality  “It’s the downside, it’s the reality of what life is like
in the private sector,” Romney responded when asked about that
success rate.  Testing an argument he might make in a general election,
Romney pointed to the federal government’s bailout of the  auto
industry , which included dismissals.  Obama “wanted to save the enterprise,” Romney said. “A
profit in enterprise is essential to keep it alive and to keep
people employed.”  The auto bailouts saved more than a million jobs, according
to the Obama administration and Democrats.  Romney also kept up his criticism of  Newt Gingrich , who has
surged in state and national polls of the Republican contest. He
specifically cited the former U.S. House speaker’s comments in
May about a House Republican entitlements plan that was put
forward by Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan .  “The speaker said this is right wing social engineering,”
Romney said. “He cut the legs out from a very important
message.”  Romney called Gingrich an “unreliable” conservative who
sometimes has “zany” ideas.  “I would not think you’d call
mirrors in space to light highways at night particularly
practical,” Romney said.  Long Nomination Fight  Romney said he is prepared for a long nomination fight if
there is no clear victor after the first four contests in  Iowa ,
New Hampshire,  South Carolina  and  Florida . The voting starts
Jan. 3 with the Iowa caucuses.  “If we go on for months and months, we will have the
resources to carry a campaign,” he said.  The Sunday talk show television appearance followed a
series of endorsements Romney has received in recent days,
including one from  South Carolina  Governor Nikki Haley.  Romney was also  endorsed  over this past weekend by the Des
Moines Register, the largest newspaper in Iowa. And his campaign
showcased an endorsement from  Bob Dole , the Republican nominee
in 1996, in an ad in yesterday’s Register that quotes the former
Kansas senator as saying Romney offers the “best hope” for
beating Obama.  Gingrich ‘Delighted’  Gingrich, speaking yesterday on CBS’ “Face the Nation”
program, said he was “delighted” by the Register’s endorsement
of his rival because the newspaper is “solidly liberal” on its
editorial page. He noted his endorsement by the Union Leader
newspaper in  New Hampshire , which he said has a “reliably
conservative” editorial voice.  “I think that indicates who the conservative in this race
is,” he said.  Gingrich said he “earned” an editorial in the Wall Street
Journal on Dec. 17 that criticized him for a lack of candor in
business dealings with  Freddie Mac , the government-backed
mortgage company that paid his consulting business at least $1.6
million after he left Congress.  He said he supports breaking Freddie Mac into four or five
companies and would like to see them “weaned” off government
subsidies.  “We earned that editorial by not stopping handling this
from day one and laying it out,” Gingrich said. “I didn’t
personally get that kind of money. It went to a consulting firm,
which had offices in three cities. And the share I got of it was
relatively small.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Des Moines , at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  