-- Iran, Russia’s Tatneft Sign $1 Billion Accord to Develop Zagheh Oil Field
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2011-12-18T15:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/iran-and-russia-s-tatneft-sign-1-billion-accord-to-restart-oil-field.html
Russia ’s OAO  Tatneft (TATN)  signed an
accord valued at $1 billion with Iran to develop the Zagheh oil
field in the Persian Gulf nation, where many energy projects
face delays due to intensified sanctions by Western countries.  A preliminary deal was signed in Tehran earlier today
between Tatneft, which is based in Russia’s Tatarstan region,
and Iran’s  Petroleum and Engineering Development Co.,  the
Iranian Oil Ministry said on its news website  Shana  today.  Russia, which has opposed the latest financial and energy
sanctions on Iran, is helping restart the dormant Zagheh field
and seeking more local ventures as western companies curb their
investment in Iran, the second-largest oil producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia . Western countries have been increasing pressure on Iran
over its controversial nuclear program.  “If Iran is keen, Tatarstan is ready to increase
cooperation in the oil and gas sectors,” Tatneft Chairman and
Tatarstan President Rustam Minnikhanov  said  in the Shana report.
“The scope and diversity of Iran’s gas and petrochemical
projects is unbelievable.”  The agreement will be finalized by the end of the Iranian
calendar year on March 19, and Iran wants further collaboration
with Tatarstan, Iranian Oil Minister Rostam Qasemi said,
according to Shana.  Production Volume  “This firm is one of the world’s reputable companies when
it comes to extraction of heavy crude oil, and so we wanted to
use its experience and technology,” Qasemi was quoted as saying
by the state-run Mehr news agency.  Tatneft’s biggest shareholder is the government of
Tatarstan, an oil-rich and majority-Muslim autonomous region
east of Moscow. The company’s shares are little changed in
Moscow trading this year.  Minnikhanov also visited the South Pars gas field during
his trip to  Iran , according to Shana.  The Zagheh field, located in southwestern Iran, will start
production within 24 months with a volume of about 7,000 barrels
a day of heavy crude, and output will eventually rise to 55,000
barrels a day, Naji Seydouni, the managing director of  Petroleum
and Engineering Development Co.,   said  in the Shana report.  Inactive Field  The Zagheh field had been inactive for several years, the
state-run Mehr news agency said in a report yesterday. A first
oil well drilled several years ago was abandoned and Iran now
plans to get further information by drilling a second well,
Shana said. The Zagheh oil field is located 25 kilometers (15
miles) from the port city of Daylam, it added.  Iran is under four rounds of United Nations sanctions and
separate punitive measures imposed by the  United States  and the
European Union that aim to isolate the country and punish it for
its nuclear activities. The U.S. and its allies accuse Iran of
seeking to build nuclear weapons, an allegation that it rejects,
maintaining that its program is solely civilian.  Russia has disapproved of sanctions on Iran, with President
Dmitry Medvedev calling them “counterproductive” last week.
Russia built Iran’s first nuclear power station, which started
generating electricity in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bruce Stanley at 
 bstanley5@bloomberg.net  