-- Japan Department-Store Sales Show Signs of Post-Quake Bottoming: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2011-12-19T06:53:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/japan-quake-has-consumers-spending-as-they-bolster-family-ties.html
Japan ’s  department-store sales  may
be bottoming, evidence that retailers are getting a boost from
people who are buying more as they spend the first holiday
season since the March 11 earthquake with their families.  Sales fell 1.9 percent in November from the same month a
year earlier, the Japan Department Store Association said in
Tokyo today. The three-month moving average was a 1.6 percent
drop, little changed from the August-October period and demand
has been “relatively solid,” the group said.  Consumer spending  has gained momentum in the holiday
season, the busiest time of the year for retailers, with  J Front
Retailing Co. (3086) , the nation’s second-largest department-store
operator, reporting Christmas cake sales are up 10 percent from
a year earlier. Sales at  Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings Ltd. (3099) ’s
flagship store in central Tokyo jumped 6.4 percent in November,
the third straight monthly increase.  “I wouldn’t say the spending is keeping the recovery
intact, but it’s definitely providing support for an economy
that faces growing downside risks from overseas,” said Hiroyuki Fujiwara, a senior analyst at Nippon Research Institute in
Tokyo, which specializes in consumer and corporate behavior and
conducts research for the government.  Sales in Sendai, a northeastern city devastated by the
quake, jumped 11 percent from the same period a year ago and
demand in  Osaka , Japan’s second-largest metropolitan area, rose
0.4 percent, today’s report showed. The decline in the three-
month moving average of nationwide sales compares with 1.5
percent in the previous period, a 0.1 percentage point
deterioration that was the smallest since June-August, the group
said.  Retail Outperforms  The  Topix Retail Trade (TPRETL)  Index has risen 2.7 percent in the
past six months, outperforming the broader Topix index’s 11.2
percent decline.  Retail sales  rose a more-than-estimated 1.9
percent in October from a year earlier, the biggest jump since
August 2010. Nomura Securities Co. and Norinchukin Research
Institute have raised their consumer spending forecasts.  Asian stocks fell after reports of the death of North
Korean leader  Kim Jong Il , extending earlier losses sparked by
 Fitch Ratings  saying it may cut the credit ratings of European
nations. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 2 percent as of 2:57
p.m. in Tokyo.  In  New Zealand , private reports showed consumer and
business confidence weakening. An index of household sentiment
fell to 101.3 this quarter from 112 in the three months through
September, Westpac Banking Corp. and McDermott Miller Ltd. said
in an e-mailed report. Business confidence sank for the fourth
time in five months in December, ANZ National Bank Ltd. said in
a separate report.  European Economy  European reports to be released as early as today may show
inflation-adjusted wages in  Russia  rose 5 percent in November
and retail sales gained 8.3 percent from a year earlier,
according to a Bloomberg survey of economists. Russian
unemployment probably rose to 6.5 percent last month, according
to the median estimate in a survey of 15 economists.  The opening of wallets in December, Japan’s  busiest
shopping month , could give the world’s third-largest economy a
boost at a time when  Europe ’s debt crisis and a yen near postwar
highs against the dollar endanger a rebound from the temblor
that left more than 19,000 people dead or missing.  Hiromi Komatsu is hitting  Tokyo  department stores in search
of Christmas presents this year for the first time in her life,
as she prepares for a rare visit of family members for the
holiday season.  “It’s usually not a big deal if we’re not together but
this year I must be with them,” said Komatsu, 40, whose parents
live in Rikuzentakata, a northeastern coastal town devastated by
the earthquake and tsunami. “I’m spending a bit more than usual
even though I’m between jobs now to give back to my friends”
who gave support after the quake.  Ginza Shopping  For Komatsu, the gift-giving season has meant buying as
many desserts, snacks and as much green tea as she’s able to
carry while strolling the shops and stores of Ginza, Tokyo’s
main shopping district. She’ll use the purchases to thank
friends living outside Japan who sent care packages and
supportive letters in the aftermath of the March quake.  “Orders for Christmas cake and traditional New Year food
typically get a boost when consumers plan to spend time with
family,” Makoto Kawamura, a Tokyo-based spokesman for retailer
J Front, said in an interview. “The earthquake may have
convinced households it’s better to spend rather than save.”  December shopping accounts for 10 percent of annual  retail
sales  in Japan, government data show. Unlike in the U.S. where
retailers count on Christmas to propel end-of-year shopping,
Japanese buying typically revolves around New Year’s and
traditional foods used to celebrate the period.  High on many shopping lists is osechi, a collection of
foods believed to be auspicious. The dishes include sweetened
black beans thought to contribute to a fulfilling life and
grilled yellowtail to ensure success. Stacked in three-story
boxes, osechi sells for several hundred dollars. Department-
store operator  Takashimaya Co. (8233)  has already sold all 300 of its
26,250 yen ($338) boxes targeted at families.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  