-- Juventus Goes Two Points Clear in Serie A; Real Madrid Tops Spanish League
-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 2011-12-18T23:27:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/juventus-goes-two-points-clear-in-serie-a-real-madrid-tops-spanish-league.html
Juventus established a two-point
lead atop Italian soccer’s Serie A by beating Novara 2-0, while
Valencia defeated Malaga to close the gap on Spanish top two
Real Madrid and Barcelona.  Simone Pepe  and Fabio Quagliarella got goals in Turin
yesterday as Juventus extended its unbeaten league record this
season to 15 matches.  The victory took Juve to 33 points in the standings ahead
of defending champion AC Milan and Udinese, which drew 2-2 at
Lazio in the late game.  Inter Milan  climbed to fifth following a
1-0 win at Cesena, while AC Milan beat Siena 2-0 two days ago.  There is a midweek round of Serie A games before the league
pauses until Jan. 7  Real Madrid enters the midseason break in Spain with a
three-point lead over defending champion Barcelona following a
6-2 victory at Sevilla two days ago. Cristiano Ronaldo got a hat
trick for  Madrid , which played more than half the match with 10
men after Pepe was red carded.  Barcelona was in action at the FIFA Club World Cup in
 Japan , where  Lionel Messi  scored two goals in yesterday’s 4-0
win against Brazil’s Santos in the final.  Valencia got a goal in each half from Roberto Soldado
against Malaga last night to move to 33 points in La Liga, four
points behind Barcelona. Levante is another four points back
following a 2-1 loss at Granada.  Bayern Tops Bundesliga  Fourth-place Borussia Moenchengladbach kept pace with the
leaders in Germany’s Bundesliga by beating Mainz 1-0.
Kaiserslautern and Hannover tied 1-1 in yesterday’s other game.  Bayern Munich  leads the standings with 37 points after a 3-
0 victory against Cologne on Dec. 16, while  Borussia Dortmund 
and Schalke have 34 points and Moenchengladbach 33.  Hertha Berlin fired coach Markus Babbel yesterday. Michael Preetz, the club’s director of sport, said in a statement on the
club’s website that he saw “no way that we can work together in
a trustful manner.”  In France, Lille prevented Paris Saint-Germain from
regaining the Ligue 1 top spot as the teams played out a
scoreless draw last night. The result put PSG level on 37 points
with Montpellier, which leads on goal difference.  The French league will break off for 3 1/2 weeks after a
round of midweek matches.  PSV Eindhoven  cut AZ Alkmaar’s lead atop the Dutch
Eredivisie to one point after a 5-1 win at Heerenveen yesterday.
AZ lost 2-1 at  NAC Breda . FC Twente and Ajax are four points
further back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at   jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 