-- New Zealand Fourth Quarter Consumer Confidence Index Falls, Westpac Says
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2011-12-18T23:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/new-zealand-fourth-quarter-consumer-confidence-index-falls-westpac-says.html
New Zealand  consumer confidence 
slumped in the fourth quarter on concern the European debt
crisis may lead to a global economic slowdown and tighter
credit, a private survey showed.  An index of household sentiment fell to 101.3 from 112 in
the third quarter,  Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC)  and McDermott Miller
Ltd. said in an e-mailed report. Confidence is the lowest since
the first quarter, immediately after an earthquake devastated
the South Island city of Christchurch.  Falling confidence suggests weak consumer spending in the
near term that would mean no interest-rate increases from the
central bank, Westpac said. Reserve Bank Governor Alan Bollard
on Dec. 8 signaled he will leave the official cash rate at a
record-low 2.5 percent until mid-2012.  “Evidence has mounted that the domestic economy entered
something of a lull in the second half of the year,” Westpac
Chief Economist Dominick Stephens said in the report. The report
“points to a retrenchment in  consumer spending  early next
year,” he said.  The New Zealand dollar’s 7.6 percent drop against its U.S.
counterpart in the past three months is the biggest decline
among Group of 10 currencies. It bought 76.21 U.S. cents at
12:04 p.m. in Wellington from 76.44 cents immediately before the
report.  Rate Pause  Eleven of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News expect
Bollard will keep borrowing costs unchanged until at least
September. None expect an increase before June.  The fourth-quarter decline in consumer confidence is
steeper than the slump in the first quarter, when the index fell
to 97.9, Auckland-based Westpac said. Before then, the index had
been above 100, which indicates optimists outnumber pessimists,
since the first quarter of 2009.  “Confidence is one of the channels through which the
European crisis could impact on  New Zealand ,” Stephens said.
“Now both business and household surveys show confidence has,
at the very least, become much more fragile.”  Business confidence  rose in November for the first time in
four months, ANZ National Bank Ltd. said last month.  The consumer survey of 1,567 people Dec. 1-11 showed a
sharp decline in willingness to buy large-ticket items, Westpac
said. A net 13 percent said it is a good time to buy, down from
30 percent three months earlier. The net figure subtracts
pessimists from optimists.  A net 22 percent expected bad economic times over the next
year, and fewer respondents saw better economic times in the
next five yeas, Westpac said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  