-- Oil Falls for Fourth Day on Death of Kim Jong Il, European Growth Outlook
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2011-12-19T08:01:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/oil-futures-open-23-cents-higher-at-93-76-a-barrel-in-new-york-trading.html
Oil dropped for a fourth day in New
York as the death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  prompted
investors to sell equities and commodities, while  Europe  was
scheduled to discuss its latest step to control the debt crisis.  Futures fell as much as 0.9 percent as the official Korean
Central News Agency said Kim had died at the age of 70. European
Union finance ministers will hold a conference call today
addressing a self-imposed deadline for drawing additional aid
and creating new budget rules. Europe’s crude demand may drop
2.8 percent in the first quarter of 2012 from this year’s fourth
quarter, the  International Energy Agency  forecast on Dec. 13.  “The near-term direction for the economy is downward, so
it doesn’t surprise me that you see prices going down,” said
Jeremy Friesen, a commodity strategist at Societe Generale SA in
 Hong Kong , who said Kim’s death was probably “net” bearish for
the market. “There is still a lot of uncertainty.”  Crude for January delivery fell as much as 99 cents to
$92.54 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . The contract, which expires tomorrow, was at $92.88 as
of 3:35 p.m. Singapore time. The Dec. 16 settlement of $93.53
was the lowest since Nov. 2. The more actively traded February
future decreased 95 cents to $92.80. Prices are 1.4 percent
higher this year after rising 15 percent in 2010.  Brent oil for February settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange declined as much as 98 cents, or 1
percent, to $102.37 a barrel. The European benchmark contract
was at a premium of $9.63 to New York-traded West Texas
Intermediate grade for the same month. The front-month spread
was a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Heart Attack  Kim, the second-generation North Korean dictator who defied
global condemnation to build nuclear weapons while his people
starved, died Dec. 17 of a heart attack, state media said today.
A government statement called on North Koreans to “loyally
follow” his son, Kim Jong Un.  South Korea ’s Kospi index fell
the most in five weeks, the MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 1.9
percent at 4:05 p.m. in  Tokyo . The dollar strengthened against
most counterparts, and gold extended its worst weekly loss since
September.  Oil in New York has technical support around $92.80 a
barrel, the lower of two leading-span lines that define an
“ichimoku cloud” on the weekly technical chart, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The cloud is an area where buy
orders tend to be clustered. Futures halted last week’s decline
near that level.  ‘Demand Picture’  Euro-area finance ministers will hold a conference call at
3:30 p.m. Brussels time to discuss 200 billion euros ($260
billion) in additional funding through the  International
Monetary Fund  and the mechanics of a so-called fiscal compact
that was negotiated at a Dec. 9 summit, according to two people
familiar with the planning.  “The demand picture is starting to look weak,” said
 Jonathan Barratt , a managing director at Commodity Broking
Services Pty in Sydney, who predicts New York oil may drop to
$90 a barrel. “You are seeing continued news that reinforces a
slowdown and that’s weighing on the price of crude.”  Europe’s crude demand may fall 2.8 percent in the first
quarter of 2012 from this year’s fourth quarter, the
International Energy Agency said in its monthly report Dec. 13.
The 27 EU member states accounted for 16 percent of global oil
consumption in last year, based on BP Plc’s Statistical Review
of World Energy.  OPEC’s 30 million-barrel-a-day oil production limit may
boost prices next year, according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries is pumping
700,000 barrels a day above the target and will have to cut
output as supplies increase from Iraq and  Libya ,  David Greely ,
the bank’s head of energy research in  New York , said in a report
yesterday. The 12-member group set a new output ceiling for the
first time in three years at its Dec. 14 meeting in Vienna.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net ;
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mike Anderson  at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net ;
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  