-- Lone Star $3 Billion Costs for Korea Bank Shows Foreigner Perils: Real M&A
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2011-12-19T18:35:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/lone-star-3-billion-costs-for-korea-bank-shows-foreigner-perils-real-m-a.html
What does it cost to do deals in
South  Korea ? For  Lone Star  Funds, a Dallas-based buyout firm,
almost $3 billion.  Lone Star, which won control of Korea Exchange Bank in 2003
when no local lenders were interested, spent more than five
years entangled by courts, regulators and lawmakers as the fund
incited public backlash over the profits on its investment.
After it was convicted of stock manipulation and two attempts to
cash out were undone by legal disputes, Lone Star agreed this
month to sell its majority stake to  Hana Financial Group Inc. (086790) 
for $3.4 billion, an almost 50 percent discount to  HSBC (HSBA)  Holdings
Plc’s offer in 2007, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Lone Star still stands to double its money from the
eight-year investment in Korea Exchange Bank, its experience
will undermine the government’s ability to dispose of a $3.8
billion stake in  Woori Finance Holdings Co. (053000) , CLSA Asia-Pacific
Markets said. It also furthers the perception that South Korea,
where companies sell at a discount to the rest of  Asia  on
concern over corporate governance and North Korean aggression,
is hostile to foreigners, Market Force Co.’s James Rooney said.  “Investors would look at this case as a kind of horror
show, where every kind of risk that is hated by professional
investors seemed to show up and create a massive distortion of
intelligent markets,” said Rooney, the consulting firm’s Seoul-
based chief executive officer and a member of the investment
committee at Macquarie Korea Opportunities Management. “This
case has made the prospects much, much worse for Woori.”  Distressed Asset  Korea Exchange Bank (004940)  and  Hana Financial  fell more than 2
percent today as South Korean shares slid after  North Korea  said
its leader  Kim Jong Il  died.  Woori Finance  lost 1.7 percent.  Jed Repko, a spokesman for Lone Star, said the buyout firm
declined to comment on whether it was treated fairly by the
South Korean government during its legal disputes.  Ernst Lee, a spokesman for South Korea’s Financial Services
Commission, said “the regulator is treating foreign investors
equally with local investors. We don’t discriminate or give
favors because of where they are based.”  A representative at Korea Exchange Bank declined to comment
on when its sale to Hana Financial will close. Lee Jung Dae, a
spokesman at Hana Financial, said it wishes to complete the deal
for Korea Exchange Bank as soon as possible so it can focus
making both Seoul-based banks more competitive.  Lone Star, founded by  John Grayken  to buy distressed
assets, purchased Korea Exchange Bank in October 2003 as  South
Korea ’s banking industry was reeling from losses caused by
issuing too many credit cards. That year, Korea Exchange Bank
reported its biggest net loss since the Asian financial crisis
in the late 1990s, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Windfall Gain  After investing a total of 2.15 trillion won ($1.9
billion), the buyout fund this month agreed to sell its interest
to Hana Financial for 3.9 trillion won.  The bank had originally agreed to pay 4.7 trillion won in
November 2010, before negotiating two price cuts from Lone Star
in the midst of the fund’s legal disputes.  In November, Lone Star was ordered by South Korean
regulators to sell most of its stake in Korea Exchange Bank
after the firm and Paul Yoo, the former head of one of its local
units, were found guilty of manipulating the share price of the
lender’s credit card division to drive down its value.  Lone Star was fined about $22 million, while Yoo was
sentenced to three years in prison. The decision reversed an
earlier ruling three years ago that cleared Lone Star and Yoo of
any wrongdoing, which prosecutors first alleged in 2006.  Profit Motive  The firm decided against appealing the conviction, removing
the main obstacle to its sale of KEB, as Korea Exchange Bank is
commonly known, according to Choi Jung Wook, an analyst at
Daishin Securities Co. in  Seoul . Lone Star has been trying to
sell its holding in the lender since 2005.  One reason that Lone Star became a target of public ire is
because as a buyout fund, it purchased Korea Exchange Bank to
make money and had little interest in building up a bank
franchise, said Hank Morris, Seoul-based North Asia adviser at
Triple A Partners Ltd., which helps hedge funds raise capital.  “The Lone Star deal was controversial from the very
beginning because Lone Star was not a bank,” he said. “Since
no other bank, Korean or foreign, was willing to invest into KEB
when Lone Star was willing to do so, it does seem fair that Lone
Star should earn its reward.”  Once the largest foreign investor in South Korean financial
assets, Lone Star is now exiting the country entirely with its
disposal of Korea Exchange Bank.  Opportunity Cost  Today, Lone Star’s Bi-Lo LLC agreed to acquire Winn-Dixie
Stores Inc. for about $560 million to expand the supermarket
operator’s presence in the U.S. South.  While the $3.4 billion price tag for Korea Exchange Bank
will inflate Lone Star’s profit, including dividends and prior
share sales, to more than $4 billion over the life of its
investment, its five-year legal dispute with the government has
cost the firm opportunities for an even bigger payoff.  In November 2006, as regulators investigated whether Korea
Exchange Bank’s financial strength was deliberately understated
to let Lone Star buy the stake, a sale to  Kookmin Bank (105560) , South
Korea’s largest bank, collapsed. London-based HSBC,  Europe ’s
biggest bank by market value, dropped its $6.3 billion proposal
after regulators held the deal in limbo for more than a year.  With politicians using Lone Star’s windfall to criticize
the buyout fund’s investment strategy in South Korea and sway
public opinion, foreign investors may stay out of the bidding
for Woori Finance and undermine the government’s effort to sell
the nation’s largest financial company by assets, according to
 Shaun Cochran , head of Korea research at CLSA in Seoul.  ‘Eat and Flee’  “It is unlikely that a foreigner would bid aggressively,
if at all” for Woori Finance after Lone Star’s experience, he
said. “Obviously, long protracted legal battles to exit a
position will give foreign investors reasons to be cautious.”  The ruling  Grand National Party , which faces a national
election next year, characterized Lone Star’s approach as “eat
and flee,” in a Dec. 5 posting on its website.  The government has already failed twice to sell its 57
percent stake in Woori Finance, which was created in 2001 as a
holding company for lenders rescued after the Asian financial
crisis. Since South Korea first announced its plan to dispose of
Woori Finance in July 2010, the bank has lost about a third of
its market value, or about $2 billion, through last week.  The Public Fund Oversight Committee, in charge of state
asset sales, gave up its most recent attempt to offload the
lender in August, saying the sole bid it received from a private
equity-led group didn’t constitute “valid competition.”  Buyer Beware  Lee Jae Sool, appointed as a member of the Public Fund
Oversight Committee in September, also said this month the
government should discourage buyout firms from bidding for Woori
Finance to avoid repeating the mistake it made with Lone Star.  “It’s time to let Lone Star leave and keep our national
image, and learn the lesson that private equity funds won’t
benefit the long-term development of banks,” he said.  For overseas investors, Lone Star’s experience may instead
serve to reinforce the view that South Korean companies aren’t
receptive to the demands of foreign ownership, said Pruksa Iamthongthong, a Singapore-based investment manager at Aberdeen
Asset Management, which has about $75 billion of assets in Asia.  Many of South Korea’s largest companies, including Samsung
Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor Co., are or were part of
family owned conglomerates known as “chaebol.”  “It’s a land of home-grown giants,” Iamthongthong said.
“The level of corporate governance in Korea is lower relative
to the rest of the region.”  ‘Korea Discount’  In the past five years, foreign institutional investors
have unloaded $30 billion worth of shares in South Korean
companies on a net basis, more than in any other country in
Asia, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  That’s reflected in the “Korea discount,” where investor
concerns over corporate governance, a lack of accountability and
an armed conflict with North Korea have left South Korean
companies undervalued relative to the rest of Asia.  The  Kospi index (KOSPI) , the benchmark gauge for South Korean
common equity, sells for 8.5 times next year’s earnings,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the lowest of
Asia’s 10 biggest equity markets.  While the discount also makes South Korean companies some
of the region’s biggest bargains, few foreign buyers will want
to follow in Lone Star’s footsteps, Market Force’s Rooney said.  “Why would any new investor want to get involved in
another similar social, political, governmental, financial,
taxation, economic and emotional conflict?” he said. “Most
investors brave enough to attempt acquisitions in Korea have
already been here and I do not expect many more to come.”  What happened with Lone Star is “one part of the reason
for that,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at   scha2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net . 