-- Hong Kong Luxury Home Rents Reach ‘Tipping Point’ as Banks Halt Expansion
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2011-12-19T08:28:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/hong-kong-luxury-home-rents-reach-tipping-point-as-banks-halt-expansion.html
Hong Kong luxury home rents, which
fell last quarter for the first time since mid-2009, may slump
10 percent next year as banks and  hedge funds  scale back amid
the threat of a global recession, according to brokers including
 Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  and Colliers International.  “We’re definitely at that tipping point,” said Anne-Marie
Sage, Hong Kong-based head of residential leasing at  Jones Lang ,
the world’s second-largest commercial brokerage. “We’ve began
to see vacancies at the very top end of the market. The banking
and the financial sector have basically stopped all movement.”  HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  and Macquarie Group Ltd. are among banks
shedding jobs in the city as investment and corporate finance
activity slows. Rents of luxury homes -- those with at least 100
square meters (1,076 square feet) -- decreased 1.6 percent in
the third quarter, after gaining almost 19 percent in 2010 and 5
percent in the first half, according to Jones Lang.  HSBC,  Hong Kong ’s biggest bank by deposits, will cut 3,000
jobs over the next three years in the city, as part of its plan
to reduce costs globally, the bank said in September. Macquarie
closed part of its global equity derivatives operations in the
city, people with knowledge of the matter said last month.  “I don’t have any statistic yet, but I would suggest the
number of rental transactions has decreased over the past couple
months,” said Sage, who expects luxury home rents to fall 5
percent to 10 percent next year.  Job Cuts Ahead  About 75 percent of human resources managers in the Hong
Kong financial services industry are concerned that global
economic uncertainty will affect the Asia-Pacific region,
according to a survey by recruitment agency Morgan McKinley.
Twelve percent of those surveyed said they expect to be
“handling redundancies over the next 12 months,” it said.  The  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAPJ)  has fallen 18 percent this year
and is heading for its first annual loss since 2008 as the
European debt crisis and weaker global economies damp investor
confidence.  The Hang Seng Property Index, which tracks Hong Kong’s
seven-biggest developers, fell 1.5 percent at the close of
trading in the city, extending its loss this year to 26 percent.
The benchmark  Hang Seng Index  declined 22 percent in 2011.  Average monthly rents of existing homes in the city fell 1
percent in October from the previous month to HK$20.50 per
square foot,  Centaline Property Agency Ltd.  said in a Dec. 7
report. That was the first decline since March 2009, Hong Kong’s
biggest closely held realtor said.  “We’re seeing more supply of flats for rent in the
market,” said Wong Leung-sing, an associate director of
research at Centaline. “Prices and sales are falling so many
people who wanted to offload their units previously have
switched to leasing them out.”  Rush for Deals  A 2,800 square-foot apartment at the Repulse Bay complex in
the Island South district was leased for HK$130,000 ($17,000) a
month in October, according to statistics compiled by Centaline.
A similar-sized unit at the Fortuna Court building in the same
district went for HK$108,000 a month, the realtor said. A 2,600
square-foot apartment in Brewin Court in Mid-levels was rented
out for HK$103,000 in October, it said.  Landlords looking to rent out properties with monthly rents
of more than HK$100,000 have since last quarter raised the
commission they pay to leasing agents to as much as one-and-a-
half-months rent from the normal half-month rent, according to
Ricky Poon, Hong Kong-based executive director of residential
sales at Colliers.  “This shows they are sensing that the market is really
turning,” said Poon, who forecast luxury rents to fall as much
as 8 percent next year. “They realize if they don’t seal the
deals now, conditions will probably worsen in the future.”  Finance Hub  Recruitment advertising in Hong Kong fell 2 percent in the
third quarter from the previous three months, while “candidate
confidence levels are muted with many unwilling to leave current
positions to enter an uncertain market,” Robert Walters Plc, a
U.K.-based recruiting agency, said in a Dec. 7 statement.  Hong Kong topped the  World Economic Forum ’s 2011 index of
financial market development, overtaking the U.S. and U.K. for
the first time. Finance, real estate and professional sectors
account for 27 percent in the city’s gross domestic product in
2010, according to government’s data.  The number of registered financial professionals in the
city rose to a record 40,039 in the third quarter, according to
the  Securities and Futures Commission .  ‘In Sync’  Home prices  in Hong Kong have fell to a near six-month low
after climbing about 70 percent since the beginning of 2009,
according to an index compiled by Centaline. It’s more expensive
to buy a home in the city than in  London , Moscow or  New York ,
Savills Plc said in a report in January that compared London
with the other cities.  “Home rents and property prices move in sync,” said Lee Wee Liat, Hong Kong-based analyst at Samsung Securities Ltd.
“We’re seeing some retrenchment in the financial sector. That’s
going to affect people who’re negotiating their rentals.”  Rents in areas traditionally favored by expatriates, such
as the Mid-levels, about a 10-minute drive from the Central
business district, and the exclusive Island South, will probably
fall less than those in “newer areas” such as West Kowloon,
said Poon of Seattle-based Colliers.  “In the new luxury areas, most landlords are small owners
and they tend to cut prices more aggressively just to ensure a
deal’s done,” Poon said. “Whereas in the traditional areas,
the landlords are mostly the developers who’re not as desperate
for  cash flow .”  Retail Executives  Still, more than 70 percent of Hong Kong companies expect
to raise wages next year, compared with 63 percent in 2011, with
38 percent forecasting increases in salaries of as much as 5
percent, the Hong Kong General Chamber of Commerce said Dec. 13.  The luxury rental market may be supported by the expansion
of international retail chains in the Asia-Pacific region, with
many stationing senior executives in Hong Kong, where their
regional headquarters are, said Steven Hui, manager of real
estate and tenancy management at Hong Kong-based Crown
Relocations.  “The financial sector is definitely slowing down but the
market is still OK,” said Hui. “Some of these companies are
offering pretty competitive housing allowances of HK$100,000 to
HK$150,000 a month for senior executives. So I don’t see things
turning to be as bad as some people think.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  