-- Zardari Returns to Pakistan to Face Supreme Court Hearings Over Coup Memo
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2011-12-19T06:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/pakistan-chief-faces-toughest-challenge-as-court-begins-coup-memo-hearings.html
President Asif Ali Zardari returned
to  Pakistan  as the Supreme Court opened hearings to determine
whether he asked the U.S. in May to intervene against a possible
army coup, an account that has widened a rift between civilian
and military leaders.  The court’s probe into a memo seeking U.S. help was
requested by opposition leader  Nawaz Sharif  and has been backed
by army chief General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani. It threatens
Zardari’s tenure as he struggles to revive an economy hampered
by the country’s worst-ever energy shortages and by militant
violence, said analysts including Imtiaz Gul, chairman of the
Islamabad-based Center for Research and Security.  “The memo has practically unified the Supreme Court,
Sharif and the army,” Gul said in a phone interview Dec. 16.
“They are all against him. This is the most serious challenge
to Zardari’s position so far.”  A deepening of political instability in nuclear-armed
Pakistan may complicate plans by President  Barack Obama  to
withdraw troops from neighboring Afghanistan and U.S. efforts to
repair ties with Pakistani authorities after a year of
confrontations, including a Nov. 25 clash on the Afghan border
that killed 24 Pakistani troops. Pakistan’s army has ruled the
country for more than half of its 64 years, and dominates
foreign and security policies during periods of civilian rule.  Pakistani-American businessman  Mansoor Ijaz  says he helped
Zardari’s appointed ambassador to  Washington ,  Husain Haqqani ,
send a memo asking for U.S. pressure against Pakistan’s army as
it stood humiliated for failing to detect the May 2 U.S. raid
that killed  Osama bin Laden . Ijaz, Kayani and Pakistan’s
military intelligence chief, Lieutenant General Ahmed Shujaa Pasha, all submitted briefs to the  Supreme Court  last week.  ‘Power Struggle’  The submissions “tend to confirm that a major political
power struggle is in progress between the Pakistan army
leadership and the elected civilian government,” wrote John
McCreary, a retired U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency analyst, in
a Dec. 16 e-mail. “The army is attempting to make the Supreme
Court of Pakistan its ally” against Zardari, McCreary said.  Haqqani, who was dismissed over the memo, and the
government deny involvement. Haqqani served as a Zardari adviser
and in the 1990s as spokesman to his wife, former Prime Minister
Benazir Bhutto. Haqqani’s wife, Farahnaz Ispahani, is a
spokeswoman for Zardari.  The legal challenge to Zardari’s more than three-year rule
comes amid uncertainty over his health following treatment in
Dubai for what officials have called a previously diagnosed
cardiovascular condition.  Shares Rise  Zardari returned to Pakistan from Dubai today, his
spokesman,  Farhatullah Babar , said. The benchmark Karachi Stock
Exchange 100 Index rose 0.9 percent at 11:15 a.m. local time.  The court’s probe will be led by Chief Justice Muhammad
Iftikhar Chaudhry, who has challenged both Zardari and the
previous president, army General Pervez Musharraf. Chaudhry last
year ordered the revival of corruption investigations against
Zardari and 8,000 officials, and in 2007 he confronted Musharraf
in a dispute that led to the general’s ouster from power.  In testimonies presented to the court, Kayani and Pasha
said they found Ijaz’s evidence credible. They called for a
probe into an affair that Kayani said had sought to lower the
morale of the military, according to Dawn newspaper.  The government challenged the court’s jurisdiction on
grounds that Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  has ordered a
parliamentary investigation, Dawn reported, citing court
submissions. Zardari didn’t deliver a deposition.  Memo’s Credibility  Zardari spokesman Babar said Dec. 17 he wouldn’t discuss
the case as it is before the courts. Army spokesman Major
General Athar Abbas didn’t return calls.  Former U.S. national security adviser General  James Jones ,
who says he delivered Ijaz’s memo to Admiral Mike Mullen, then
chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, said he had no
reason to believe Haqqani was involved and that he didn’t find
the note credible,  Associated Press  said Dec. 17.  Tension with the U.S., Pakistan’s largest aid provider, and
political turmoil have undermined investor confidence in the
economy and caused the rupee to drop to a record low against the
dollar Dec. 9, Sayem Ali, an economist at  Standard Chartered  in
Karachi, said.  Policy makers are aiming to boost growth from 2.4 percent
in the year ended June 30, one of Pakistan’s lowest expansions
in a decade. Foreign direct investment fell 28 percent in the
four months through October from a year earlier.  Collision Course  Last month’s airstrike at the Afghan frontier that killed
Pakistani troops soured ties with the U.S. further. Pakistan
closed border crossings to trucks carrying supplies for American
forces in  Afghanistan  and ordered the U.S. to vacate an airbase
used for Predator drone missions.  “A prolonged confrontation between the military and
civilian leadership will complicate things for the U.S.,” said
Rashid Khan, a professor of international relations at the
University of Sargodha. “As they get closer to an end game in
Afghanistan, Western allies want Pakistan to play an active role
in bringing militants” into talks.  Gilani tried to dispel the impression that his government
and the army are set on a collision course after meeting Kayani
Dec. 16.  “The government of Pakistan and its institutions remain
committed to their constitutional roles and obligations to a
democratic and prosperous future for Pakistan,” Gilani’s office
said in a statement.  “This memo case is a conspiracy against the elected
government and the parliament,” Gilani said in a televised
address in the Senate Dec. 14. “I can’t guarantee that this
system will survive if we are ousted through undemocratic means.
In this case, you all have to pack up and go.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  