-- Penn State Quarterback Treated After Locker Room Fight, USA Today Reports
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2011-12-18T04:33:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/penn-state-quarterback-treated-after-locker-room-fight-usa-today-reports.html
Penn State  quarterback Matt McGloin
suffered a seizure in a locker room fight with teammate Curtis
Drake,  USA Today  reported, citing McGloin’s father.  Paul McGloin said his son was resting comfortably in his
apartment after being treated at Mount Nittany Medical Center
earlier today, according to the newspaper.  University police were called to the team’s locker room to
investigate a report of a fight between the two players after
practice, the school said in a statement on its  website . The
school didn’t provide further details.  Campus police and Penn State’s Office of Judicial Affairs
will investigate the incident and report results as they would
for any other student involved in an incident on campus, the
school said.  The fight is the latest incident surrounding the Penn State
football program, which is still reeling from the arrest of
former defensive coordinator Jerry Sandusky on sexual assault
charges and the firing of long-time head coach  Joe Paterno .  Athletic Director Tim Curley and  Gary Schultz , the school’s
former vice president, will face trial for perjury and failing
to report that assistant coach  Mike McQueary  told them he saw
Sandusky molesting a boy in 2002.  Curley and Schultz, who remain free on $75,000 unsecured
bail, denied the charges.  Sandusky, 67, has been charged with more than 40 counts
stemming from the alleged sexual abuse of 10 boys. He waived his
preliminary hearing this week and prosecutors said his case will
proceed to trial. Sandusky, under home confinement on $250,000
bail, denies the charges.  Caroline Roberto, Curley’s lawyer, said her client will be
acquitted at trial.  The 23rd-ranked Nittany Lions (9-3) face 17th-ranked
Houston in the TicketCity Bowl on Jan. 2 in  Dallas .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  