-- Putin Setback Exposes Gazprom as Communists Seek Higher Tax
-- B y   J a k e   R u d n i t s k y   a n d   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2011-12-19T15:26:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/putin-s-setback-exposes-gazprom-as-communists-seek-higher-taxes.html
OAO Gazprom , the world’s biggest
natural-gas producer, faces demands to pay more tax after
opposition groups gained against Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin ’s
ruling party in Russian parliamentary elections.  “The liberals, the Communists and the social democrats all
agree on raising Gazprom’s taxes,” Vladimir Milov, the leader
of the liberal Democratic Choice Movement and a former deputy
energy minister, said in a phone interview from Moscow.  State-owned Gazprom, Russia’s biggest company by revenue,
enjoys a tax rate that’s less than half the country’s oil
producers. The company’s tax burden, which totaled $23 billion
last year, should double to bring it in line, Sergei Levchenko,
a Communist Party member who served on a parliamentary energy
committee, said by phone from the Siberian city of Angarsk.  Putin, whose United Russia party suffered this month its
biggest setback since he came to power more than a decade ago,
has been slow to raise taxes on Gazprom. With a smaller majority
in the State Duma, parliament’s lower house, Putin may be forced
to seek compromises with other factions. The Dec. 4 election
sparked protests against voter fraud and Putin’s plans to return
to the Kremlin in March’s presidential vote.  Russia  expects a budget deficit of 1.5 percent of gross
domestic product in 2012 after a balanced budget this year,
Putin said Nov. 16. Oil and gas accounted for about 49 percent
of budget revenue in the first 11 months of this year, according
to the  Finance Ministry ’s website.  Gazprom shares on the Micex fell 2.5 percent today to
166.05 rubles at the close in Moscow. The benchmark Micex index
fell 0.02 percent.  Tax Growth  Gazprom paid  731.3 billion rubles  ($23 billion) in taxes
last year, or about 20 percent of revenue, according to its 2010
financial report. State-controlled OAO Rosneft, the country’s
biggest oil producer, paid $30.3 billion in taxes, or 48 percent
of revenue, according to its financial statements.  The gas producer may pay $39.5 billion in taxes this year,
with an effective tax rate of 22 percent, compared with a 52
percent rate for Rosneft, said Constantine Cherepanov, an
analyst at UBS AG in Moscow.  “Gazprom is the biggest business structure in Russia, yet
much smaller energy companies pay higher tax rates,” the
Communist Party’s Levchenko said. The increase could be imposed
through profit or mineral extraction taxes, he said. The
Communists will have the biggest voice after  United Russia  when
the new Duma meets this month.  Just Russia  United Russia won 238 seats in the 450-member State Duma,
according to the Central Elections Commission, down from 315 in
the 2007 vote. The Communists will get 92 seats, up from 57;
Just Russia doubled its tally to 64 from 32 and the  Liberal
Democratic Party  won 56 seats, up from 40.  “Given the added weight the opposition has in the Duma,
it’s realistic to expect more pressure to increase Gazprom’s tax
burden,” Milov said.  Gazprom is already facing one tax increase. As the budget
slid into the first deficit for a decade last year, the Finance
Ministry pushed through the first increase in the mineral-
extraction tax for gas producers in five years, raising the rate
by 61 percent this year.  Next year, Gazprom’s mineral-extraction tax rate will more
than double to 509 rubles for 1,000 square meters of gas from
237 rubles this year, according to the Kremlin  website . The tax
for the gas export monopoly will climb to 582 rubles in 2013 and
622 rubles in 2014.  That may add 150 billion rubles to Gazprom’s mineral
extraction tax bill in 2012, based on company estimates.  Vulnerable to Spending  Higher gas tariffs at home, which are scheduled to climb 15
percent in July next year, will partially offset the higher
extraction tax. Russia is gradually increasing domestic rates to
match oil-linked gas prices in  Europe  and 2009 was the first
year Gazprom made a profit from domestic gas sales.  Gas producers, led by Gazprom, are still vulnerable to
plans to raise revenue through further tax increases, UBS’s
Cherepanov said by phone.  Gazprom may cut its investment program to compensate for
higher levies because it has excess  production  and demand isn’t
growing domestically or abroad, Alexei Kokin, an oil and gas
analyst at UralSib Financial Corp., said by phone.  “There’s nowhere else to take the money from and there’s
serious potential to increase Gazprom’s tax burden,” he said.  Easily Trimmed  Gazprom has “fat” that can easily be trimmed, Kokin said.
Higher taxes are likely because the government, which owns more
than 50 percent of Gazprom, may not want to pay out earnings to
other shareholders as dividends, he said.  The gas company is not aware of any immediate plans to
raise taxes, said a company official, who declined to be
identified because of corporate policy.  Gazprom has budgeted as much as 200 billion rubles a year
for dividends in 2012 through 2014, Interfax reported on Dec. 1,
citing an unidentified person familiar with the plan. That would
make the 2012 cash  dividend (GAZP)  6.40 rubles a share, the highest
payment since at least 2005.  The gas industry is a tempting target for government
because any attempt to tax oil producers more heavily could risk
undermining production, Kokin said. Last year, Putin said  oil
production  will remain above 500 million metric tons a year, or
10 million barrels a day, for at least 10 years. That’s more
than  Saudi Arabia  this year.  Gazprom continues to lobby for tax breaks for a number of
projects in remote, gas-rich areas, including the Shtokman
project in Russia’s  Arctic Ocean , which it plans to develop with
Total SA and Norway’s Statoil ASA.  Russia is considering tax breaks for Shtokman, Energy
Minister Sergei Shmatko said on Dec. 7. French Prime Minister
 Francois Fillon  last month urged Russia to exempt the project
from the mineral extraction tax and export duties.  Gazprom is seeking similar tax breaks to develop natural-
gas deposits off Russia’s Pacific coast and in the Yakutia
region, Viktor Timoshilov, an official in charge of the
company’s eastern projects, said in September.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jake Rudnitsky in Moscow at 
 jrudnitsky@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  