-- Qantas Reaches Agreement with Engineers Union, to Appear Before Regulator
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2011-12-19T06:52:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/qantas-reaches-agreement-with-engineers-union-to-appear-before-regulator.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , Australia’s
largest carrier, agreed on a new contract with its engineers,
the first accord to be struck with any of the three unions at
the center of an October grounding.  The deal sets a 3 percent annual pay increase for three
years for 1,600 members of the Australian Licensed Aircraft
Engineers Association, the airline said in an e-mailed
statement. The engineers initially  demanded  a 15 percent raise.  Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce has vowed to revamp the
airline’s money-losing international business by cutting costs,
raising concern among workers and labor leaders that the company
will shift work to lower-wage countries. The pact with engineers
may help the airline reach deals with two other unions and
prevent further strikes that Joyce has said caused a plunge in
bookings earlier this year.  “Qantas has the upper hand here,” said Nachiket Moghe, an
analyst at Morningstar Inc. “It looks like the decisions will
be in Qantas’s favor” on two other disputes under way.  Baggage handlers and engineers have been seeking higher pay
and job-security measures, including a commitment to perform
maintenance on new aircraft in  Australia  and restrictions on the
use of contract workers. Long-haul pilots want the same
employment conditions whether they fly for Qantas’s namesake
carrier or its budget arm, Jetstar.  Global Competitiveness  The agreement reached with the engineers union “does not
include any of the claims that would have restricted Qantas in
making the changes needed to compete in the global aviation
industry,” the carrier said in the statement.  Qantas shares fell 3 percent in Sydney to close at A$1.475,
their lowest level since Nov. 25. They have declined 42 percent
this year, compared with a 14 percent drop for Australia’s
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  The airline and the three labor unions entered into forced
arbitration last month. Qantas grounded its main fleet for about
48 hours starting on Oct. 29 to force an end to six months of
sporadic strikes by unions.  Prospects for slowing global economic growth have overtaken
labor relations as the biggest concern for Qantas investors,
Moghe said.  “It’s not so much of a union discount now, as the fact
that the global economy is quite wobbly, that’s weighing on the
stock,” he said.  The airline’s agreement with engineers didn’t include a
commitment to build a A$95 million ($94 million) engineering
hangar or give pay raises to staff based on length of service,
Courtney Treak, a spokeswoman for the airline, said by
telephone. These conditions were part of the union’s initial
demands, according to Qantas’s  website .  First Agreement  The agreement will be submitted to Fair Work Australia
today, Steve Purvinas, federal secretary of the engineers union,
said in a phone interview today.  Unions representing long-haul crew and baggage handlers
said their disputes with Qantas haven’t been settled.  “We remain very confident about the case we’ll take to
arbitration,” said Richard Woodward, vice-president of the
Australian and International Pilots Association, which
represents 2,500 air crew. “We are concerned about the future
of our young pilots.”  New Asia-Based Units  The pilots association’s first hearing before Fair Work
Australia is set for June 4, according to a listing notice from
the regulator.  “It’s good to see progress on planes and job security,”
said Dermot Ryan, a spokesman for the Transport Workers Union.
“We’re hoping this is a sign that Qantas is learning.”  The Transport Workers Union and Qantas submitted rival
draft agreements to Fair Work Australia Dec. 10, Ryan said, and
the two sides haven’t met since.  Qantas plans to establish two minority-owned carriers in
 Asia  next year, including a Jetstar budget unit in  Japan  and a
full-service business based in Singapore or  Malaysia , as part of
Joyce’s strategy to turn around A$200 million of annual losses
from international operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  