-- RBS Said to Consider Closing Equities Business
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2011-12-19T16:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/rbs-hires-mckinsey-may-cut-half-of-its-investment-bank-telegraph-says.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) ,
Britain’s biggest state-owned lender, may close its equities
unit as the lender strives to shrink its investment bank, two
people familiar with the matter said.  Shutting or selling the division, including U.K.
stockbroker Hoare Govett, are among the options being considered
by the bank’s board, though no final decision has been made yet,
said the people, who declined to be identified because the
discussions aren’t complete. An announcement is expected by the
time the bank reports full-year earnings at the end of February,
the people said. The equities unit employs about 1,000 people.  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester , 51, has said
the investment bank is unsustainable at its current size because
of regulatory change proposed by the U.K. government-appointed
 Independent Commission on Banking  and because of shifts in
investor demand. The unit, which employs about 19,000 people in
total, reported a 29 percent revenue drop in the third quarter
compared with the year-earlier period.  “The investment bank, in common with many other investment
banks, will have to shrink further in order to be sustainable,”
Hester said on Nov. 4. “With income very hard to grow we do
need to go back and take a very close look at the costs base. We
are doing that, and unfortunately that will affect jobs.”  ‘Significant Reductions’  Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne today told the
House of Commons that the 83 percent taxpayer-owned bank would
henceforth concentrate on lending to individuals, small
businesses and companies.  “ Investment banking  will continue to support RBS’
corporate lending business,” Osborne said. “RBS will make
further significant reductions in the investment bank, scaling
back riskier activities that are heavy users of capital or
funding.”  The  ICB proposals , which the government supports, mean
banks will no longer be allowed to use their consumer units to
provide cheap funding for investment-banking units. An RBS
official declined to comment when contacted by Bloomberg News.
The Sunday Telegraph reported the possible sale of Hoare Govett
yesterday.  “We would welcome the sale or closure of the RBS equities
business and see it as a positive for the stock,” said  Bruce Packard , an analyst at Seymour Pierce Ltd. in  London , in a note
to clients today. “At the very least, the Hoare Govett business
is a distraction to management. RBS was not alone, from 2009
onwards many banks hired aggressively in equities.”  Biggest Bailout  RBS’s shares traded 3 percent lower at 19.4 pence at the
close of trading in London, and are down 50 percent so far this
year.  The Edinburgh-based bank has shrunk its balance sheet by
almost 1 trillion pounds ($1.55 trillion) since Hester took over
from  Fred Goodwin  in 2008.  RBS has already cut more than 30,000 jobs since receiving
the world’s biggest banking bailout. In August, the bank
announced 2,000 job cuts at its Global Banking and Markets
business over the next 12 to 18 months.  There will “be a still-further reduction in our investment
banking operations that will result in part from regulation and
in part from, if you like, market and investor changes,” Hester
told  parliamentarians  last month. “These things all blur
together but they go in the same direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  