-- Riots Spread in Western Kazakh Oil Region; Death Toll Reaches 14
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2011-12-18T14:50:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/riots-spread-in-western-kazakh-oil-region-death-toll-reaches-14.html
Riots spread in western  Kazakhstan ,
raising the death toll to 14 after a clash with police in the
town of Shetpe killed one person yesterday.  A group of people blocked the railway in Shetpe, in the
oil-producing Mangistau region, disrupting train services, the
Kazakh Prosecutor’s General Office said today in an e-mailed
statement. They broke windows of shops and vehicles in the town
yesterday, prosecutors said.  The police were forced to use arms to suppress the rioters,
who were threatening the life of officers and residents,
prosecutors said. Twelve people with gunshot wounds were taken
to the hospital in Mangistau, where one of them died, according
to the statement.  The rioters voiced support for protesters in the town of
Zhanaozen, where 13 people died and 86 were injured in a mass
riot on Dec. 16, according to a separate statement from the
prosecutors today. In Zhanaozen, a state of emergency was
declared.  KazMunaiGas Exploration Production (RDGZ) , the London-listed unit
of Kazakhstan’s national energy company, has been hit by
“illegal labor action” over wages since May, which contributed
to a 7 percent decline in oil output in January through
September from a year earlier, the company said last month.
KazMunaiGas EP have fired about 1,300 workers involved in the
protests at two units in its biggest oil-production region, the
company said in August.  A group of armed “hooligans” attacked civilians and
police and burned down city hall, hotels and an administrative
building belonging to KazMunaiGas EP’s Uzenmunaigas unit,
Prosecutor General Farhat Daulbayev said in a statement on Dec.
16, Kazakhstan’s independence day.  KazMunaiGas EP said production wasn’t harmed and its
employees didn’t take part in the riots, according to Dec. 16
statement from the oil producer. Security at the facilities has
been heightened, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  