-- Iowa Newspaper’s Backing Could Aid Romney
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2011-12-18T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/romney-wins-des-moines-register-s-endorsement-before-iowa-caucuses-begin.html
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney received a potential boost to his presidential campaign
in  Iowa  by winning the endorsement of the Des Moines Register,
just more than two weeks before the state’s caucuses start the
Republican nomination voting on Jan. 3.  “He has solid credentials in a career that includes
running and starting successful businesses, turning around the
2002 Winter Olympics and working with both political parties as
Massachusetts governor to pass important initiatives,” Iowa’s
largest newspaper said in an  endorsement  released yesterday.  Romney is also showcasing an endorsement from  Bob Dole , the
Republican nominee in 1996, in an ad in today’s Register that
quotes the former Kansas senator as saying Romney offers the
“best hope” for beating President  Barack Obama  in 2012.  In outlining its case for Romney, the newspaper detailed
problems it sees in the two other candidates it views as being
in the “top tier” in Iowa: former U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas .  “Newt Gingrich is an undisciplined partisan who would
alienate, not unite, if he reverts to mean-spirited attacks on
display as House speaker,” the newspaper said. “Ron Paul’s
libertarian ideology would lead to economic chaos and
isolationism, neither of which this nation can afford.”  Presidential Ability  Using the words “sobriety, wisdom and judgment” to
describe Romney, the newspaper said he has presidential ability.  “While other candidates have pandered to extremes with
attacks on the courts and sermons on Christian values, Romney
has pointedly refrained from reckless rhetoric and moralizing,”
it said. “He may be accused of being too cautious, but choosing
words carefully is a skill essential for anyone who could be
sitting in the White House and reacting to world events.”  Romney brings “well-reasoned alternatives rather than
simply proposing to swing a wrecking ball in  Washington ” and is
a “serious student of public policy who examines the data
before making a decision,” the paper said.  Democrats have sought to brand Romney as a serial flip-
flopper on policy positions, a view the Register challenged.  “Voters will have to decide for themselves whether such
subtly nuanced statements express Romney’s true beliefs or if
he’s trying to have it both ways,” it said. “Romney at least
appreciates both sides of hard questions.”  Four years ago, the newspaper endorsed Senator  John McCain 
of  Arizona , who went on to win the Republican nomination.  ‘Best Case’  “This is a different field, and he has matured as a
candidate,” the editorial said. “Rebuilding the economy is the
nation’s top priority, and Romney makes the best case among the
Republicans that he could do that.”  The newspaper endorsement follows one Romney won a day
earlier from  South Carolina  Governor Nikki Haley, the top
official in the state that holds the third contest in the 2012
Republican presidential nominating race on Jan. 21.  In late November, Gingrich won the endorsement of the Union
Leader newspaper, which is the largest in  New Hampshire .  The Iowa caucuses will be held one week before the New
Hampshire primary on Jan. 10. The two contests traditionally
start the nomination process.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in  Des Moines , at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  