-- Rupee Bonds Penalized by Indonesia Winning Investment Grade: India Credit
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2011-12-19T07:04:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/rupee-bonds-penalized-by-indonesia-winning-investment-grade-india-credit.html
India  is trailing  Indonesia  in the
 bond market  like never before.  Indian 10-year sovereign notes denominated in rupee yielded
214 basis points more than similar maturity Indonesian rupiah
debt as of 11 a.m. in Mumbai, after touching an  unprecedented 
277 basis points on Nov. 14, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. While  Fitch Ratings  raised Indonesia’s rating by one
level to the investment grade BBB- last week, the company said
in October that further deterioration in government finances may
“weigh” on India, ranked at the same level.  Dollar-based investors in Indian notes  lost  10 percent this
year, while Indonesian bonds earned 21 percent, the most among
emerging-market debt tracked by JPMorgan & Chase Co. The  Reserve
Bank of India  has raised key borrowing costs seven times this
year to quell  inflation  running at 9.11 percent, twice as fast
as  Indonesia’s . Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said last week he
hasn’t been able to control price pressures.  “The rating upgrade makes Indonesia look better as India’s
rating isn’t improving,” Kenichiro Ikezawa, a  fund manager  at
Daiwa SB Investments Ltd. that oversees about $60 billion, said
in an interview on Dec. 16. “India’s inflation remains high
while Indonesia has managed to ease prices, enabling it to even
cut  interest rates  to support the economy. So the upgrade could
have a negative impact on inflows into India’s debt.”  Swaps Diverge  The  extra cost  of protecting debt of  State Bank  of India,
seen as a proxy for the nation, over Indonesian  government bonds 
using five-year credit-default swaps has risen to 179 basis
points, from 60 basis points on Sept. 29, when India’s  Finance
Ministry  said it would borrow 13 percent more than planned in
the year through March. The Indian sovereign doesn’t have
default swaps as the nation doesn’t have dollar-denominated debt.  Swaps insuring against a default by State Bank cost 395
basis points, or 3.95 percentage points, on Dec. 16, up 44 basis
points from the end of November, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay the buyer
face value in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent should a company or country fail to adhere to its
debt agreements.  Indian policy makers will miss a target to cut the  budget
deficit  to a level equal to 4.6 percent of gross domestic
product in the year ending in March, from 4.7 percent in the
previous financial year, Fitch analysts wrote in an Oct. 3
report. Leslie Tan, a Singapore-based spokesman at Fitch, didn’t
reply to an e-mail seeking the company’s latest views on India.  Yield Surge  Yields on 10-year rupee bonds have surged this year as
inflation held above 9 percent since December 2010. The yield on
the government’s benchmark 8.79 percent note due in November
2021 fell four basis points to 8.34 percent today, extending its
11-basis-point decline on Dec. 16 as the central bank left the
key repurchase rate unchanged at 8.5 percent. While Indian 10-
year yields have climbed 47 basis points in 2011, those for
Indonesia’s  10-year debt  have dropped 136.  India’s shares are headed for a second monthly drop after
government data released on Nov. 30 showed that the economy is
slowing.  Gross domestic product  rose 6.9 percent in the three
months through September, the least since the three months to
the end of June 2009. Industrial  output  shrank 5.1 percent in
October from a year earlier, the first contraction since June
2009, official data released last week showed.  “Growth is clearly decelerating,” the  Reserve Bank  of
India said in a statement following their meeting. Inflation
risks “remain high” and the “rupee remains under stress,”
according to the bank.  Rupee Gains  The rupee rallied on Dec. 16, surging 1.7 percent to
52.7450 per dollar, after the central bank took steps to curb
speculative trading in currency forwards the previous day.
Companies can’t enter into multiple rupee forward contracts to
cover a single overseas transaction, policy makers said. The
currency slumped 0.7 percent today to 53.1050 versus the
greenback.  The Indian currency has slumped 16 percent this year, the
worst performance among Asian currencies. The rupiah has
weakened 1.2 percent in 2011 to 9,013 per dollar, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The rupiah’s outperformance and the lack of trading
restrictions on Indonesian bonds diminishes the comparative
appeal of India’s securities, according to KB Asset Management
Co., a unit of  South Korea ’s second-largest financial services
group by assets. India limits foreign investment in its debt at
$60 billion. The government also auctions investment quotas to
foreigners through permits, and restrictions include minimum
lock-in periods and mandatory reinvestments.  Foreigner Restrictions  “We’re positive about investing in Indonesian debt and
believe the rupiah will strengthen” because of the rating
upgrade, Lim Kwang Taek, the Seoul-based director of global
 portfolio management  at KB Asset Management who oversees $1
billion, said in an interview on Dec. 16. “We have no plan to
start buying Indian bonds as the country has restrictions on
foreign investors, and also as currency movements and inflation
are worrisome.”  KB Asset has raised the level of Indonesian debt in its
flagship emerging-market fund to 9.6 percent from 9.1 percent at
the end of June.  The higher yields offered by rupee-denominated debt will
ensure that investors continue to hold India’s notes, according
to Tokyo-based PineBridge Investments  Japan  Co. Global
investors’ ownership of India’s bonds totaled $25.2 billion as
of Dec. 15, according to exchange data. That compares with
224.11 trillion rupiah ($24.8 billion) in Indonesia, according
data from the Finance Ministry there.  ‘Higher Yields’  “India is quite an important and attractive investment
destination for us,” Kazuya Sugiura, president of PineBridge
Investments Japan, said in an interview on Dec. 16. “Their
relatively higher yields and growth potential keep them
attractive, and we own their debt under some of our funds.”  India’s  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  of shares has dropped 5.3 percent
in December, taking its slide for the year to 26 percent, the
biggest decline among benchmark indexes in the world’s 10
largest markets.  India’s “relatively sharp” growth slowdown and Fitch’s
upgrade of Indonesia may deter investors from rupee debt, said
 Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based currency strategist at Scotia
Capital, the investment banking unit of Bank of  Nova Scotia ,
 Canada ’s third-largest bank.  Samsung Asset Management Co., South Korea’s largest asset
manager, prefers Indonesian debt over India’s.  “We have no plan to invest in Indian debt for some time as
recent economic data such as growth and inflation are
negative,” Eugene Kim, the Seoul-based chief investment officer
of fixed income at Samsung Asset who oversees 76 trillion won
($66 billion), said in an interview on Dec. 16. “We favor
Indonesian debt among emerging-market securities as the country
has strong economic fundamentals, as supported by Fitch’s rating
upgrade.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  