-- Russian Oil Drilling Rig Sinks off Sakhalin With 14 Rescued, 53 Missing
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2011-12-18T15:02:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/russian-drilling-rig-sinks-off-sakhalin-killing-at-least-four-ria-says.html
A drilling platform with 67 Russians
on board sank in a storm near Sakhalin Island off  Russia ’s
Pacific coast after completing a job for  OAO Gazprom. (GAZP)  Only 14
people have been rescued so far, authorities said.  The Kolskaya jack-up rig, owned by  OAO
Arktikmorneftegazrazvedka , capsized in the Sea of Okhotsk early
today, the company  said  in a statement on its website. The
platform was being towed to Sakhalin from the Kamchatka
Peninsula, according to a statement on the  website  of the
federal Investigative Committee.  While Yekaterina Potvorova, a spokeswoman at the regional
Emergency Situations Ministry, had earlier said that four people
had been spotted in the high seas with no signs of life, she
said by phone from the city of Khabarovsk that information on
the number of people dead could no longer be confirmed.  “The rescue efforts will continue at night, with the
expected arrival of rescue vessels,” she said, adding that the
works are hindered by “high waves and strong wind.”  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered a probe into the
platform wreckage, according to a statement on the Kremlin
website. The Investigative Committee said unsafe towing without
acknowledgment of weather conditions is one of the main reasons
being considered.  Officials had no information about a possible fuel spill,
Potvorova said.  The platform, built in 1985, had finished working off
Kamchatka for Gazprom, the world’s biggest natural-gas producer,
 Sergei Kupriyanov , a spokesman for the Moscow-based company,
said by phone. The job ended on Dec. 4, and Gazprom had no
contractual obligations with the rig’s owner as of Dec. 11, he
said. Arktikmorneftegazrazvedka, a unit of state-run oil
producer OAO Zarubezhneft, has headquarters in the northwestern
city of Murmansk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  