-- S&P Downgrade Proves Absurd as Investors Prefer U.S. Assets
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2011-12-19T17:42:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/s-p-downgrade-proves-absurd-as-global-investors-make-u-s-assets-preferred.html
Four months after  Standard & Poor’s 
stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating and said the world’s
biggest economy was no longer the safest of borrowers, dollar-
denominated financial assets are doing nothing but appreciating.  Government bonds have returned 4.4 percent, the dollar has
gained 8.6 percent relative to a basket of currencies, and the
S&P 500 Index of stocks has rallied 1.7 percent since the U.S.
was cut to AA+ from AAA on Aug. 5. The cost for the nation to
borrow has fallen to record lows since S&P said the U.S. was no
longer risk-free, with the average monthly yield in November on
10-year notes below 2 percent for the first time since 1950.  Demand for American assets is increasing as consumer
confidence, manufacturing and employment show the U.S. is
strengthening as Europe struggles to save its currency union and
the developed world weakens. U.S. gross domestic product will
expand 2.19 percent next year, compared with 1.55 percent for
the Group of 10 nations, Bloomberg surveys of economists show.  “The U.S. is our favorite market,” Hiromasa Nakamura, a
bond investor in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Asset Management Co., which
oversees the equivalent of about $42 billion, said Dec. 12 in a
telephone interview. “The level of debt is high but I think
they will deal with it,” he said. “Financial dislocations are
continuing and investor money is flowing to the reserve
currency, the U.S. dollar.”  Currency Advantage  When it lowered the U.S. rating, S&P, the world’s largest
provider of credit analysis, said the failure up to then of
Democrats and Republicans to agree on budget cuts made the U.S.
less creditworthy, downplaying the country’s ability -- unlike
individual European nations -- to print as much money as it
needs to pay its debts. Congress cleared a $1 trillion spending
bill on Dec. 17 that lawmakers called a bipartisan compromise.  “It is the ability to print one’s own currency to pay
government bond investors back under any circumstances that
makes a government bond a government bond, i.e. a (credit) risk-
free asset for hold-to-maturity investors,” Elga Bartsch, the
chief European economist at Morgan Stanley in London, said in a
report this month to clients.  Investors have looked past S&P’s warning even as  government
borrowing  surpasses  $15 trillion  for the first time and the
 budget deficit  exceeds $1 trillion for a third year.  Best Bonds  Long-term Treasuries are the best performing government
bonds in the world this year, returning 30 percent, according to
Bloomberg/EFFAS indexes. The  S&P 500  has gained since August
even as the MSCI All Country World Index fell 5.7 percent.  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s U.S. Dollar Index, which
measures the greenback against the euro, yen and four other
major trading partners, rose 2 percent last week and was at
80.282 at 12:34 a.m.  New York  time, from 74.598 on Aug. 5.  Investors are showing no reluctance to lend to the U.S.,
bidding a record $3.02 for each dollar of the $1.96 trillion of
Treasury notes and bonds sold this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s up from $2.56 in 2007 when the
U.S. issued $581 billion in notes and bonds, government data
show.  “Treasuries are clearly the safest asset in the world,
they will continue to be the safest asset in the world,” James Staley, chief executive  officer of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
investment-banking unit, said today on Bloomberg Television’s
“InsideTrack” with  Erik Schatzker . “A downgrade in and of
itself doesn’t really change the equation.”  Yields  on 10-year Treasuries rose 2 basis points today to
1.83 percent, down from 2.56 percent on Aug. 5. Yields slid 21
basis points last week, or 0.21 percentage point, in the biggest
drop since the five days ended Nov. 4, Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices show.  Foreign Demand  Foreigners increased  holdings  of Treasuries by $17.2
billion in August, September and October to $4.66 trillion, the
latest government data show. Non-U.S. buyers own about 48
percent of U.S. marketable debt, up from 34 percent when the
nation had a budget surplus in December 2000.  “The fact that the U.S.’s credit rating was cut from AAA
is not relevant,” said Jack Kelly, a  fund manager  at Standard
Life Investments in Edinburgh, which oversees the equivalent of
about $200 billion. “Treasuries are benefiting from an enormous
flight to quality.”  History shows that a rally following a sovereign downgrade
isn’t unusual.  After S&P cut Japan in February 2001 to AA+ from AAA, 10-
year bonds yields fell below 1.15 percent four months later from
1.46 percent. Yields were at 0.97 percent today, even though S&P
ultimately reduced the nation to AA-. Moody’s Investors Service
waited until May 2009 to lower Japan’s foreign currency rating
from Aaa, and now has it at Aa3, the same as S&P.  Stronger Yen  The yen appreciated as much as 2 percent by the end of June
2001, and is 4.7 percent stronger in 2011, based on Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes that measure the currency against a
basket of nine developed-nation peers. While the Nikkei 225
Stock Average was little changed four months later, it had
surged as much as 11 percent by May 7, 2001.  As the U.S. strengthens, the outlook for other parts of the
world is deteriorating. Economists raised their forecasts for
growth in U.S. gross domestic product next year to an average of
2.2 percent from 2 percent in October as they trimmed their
estimate of Europe by 0.5 percentage point to 1 percent
according to separate surveys by Bloomberg.  Demand from international investors is good news for
President Barack Obama because the Treasury was able to fund the
third-straight  budget deficit  of more than $1 trillion at a
lower cost as a percentage of GDP than when the nation posted
surpluses from 1998 to 2001. Interest expense accounted for 3
percent of the economy in fiscal 2011 ended Sept. 30, down from
4 percent in 1999.  Strengthening Economy  U.S. economic indicators have improved since S&P’s
downgrade, with  consumer confidence , as measured by the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan preliminary index, rising to a
six-month high in December.  Inflation was little changed in November and manufacturing
expanded at the fastest pace in five months, according to the
Institute for Supply Management’s factory index. Private
employment rose 206,000 last month, the strongest increase this
year, ADP Employer Services said.  The U.S. received its highest rating from international
investors in more than two years, with 41 percent saying in a
Bloomberg poll conducted Dec. 5-6 that the country would be
among top performers in 2012.  Downgrade Justified  Not everyone agrees the U.S. is more creditworthy. Sixty-
seven percent of 1,031 global investors in a Bloomberg Global
Poll in September said S&P’s move was justified.  Moody’s, the second-largest ratings company, put its top
Aaa grade for the U.S. on “negative outlook” during the budget
debate.  Fitch Ratings  said last month there was a greater than
50 percent chance it would strip the nation of its top ranking
over the next two years.  The ratio of net government debt to GDP reached 72 percent
in 2011 and will rise to 80 percent by 2015,  John Chambers ,
managing director of sovereign ratings at S&P, said in a  speech 
in Beijing last month. The government’s reliance on foreign
investors contributed to the downgrade, he said.  Germany’s debt-to-GDP ratio will fall to 65.6 percent by
2014 after peaking at 72.7 percent at the end of this year,
according to a Bloomberg Brief estimate.  “The U.S. needs to raise its savings level,” Chambers
said, according to a transcript of the speech on S&P’s website.
“Failure to do so might raise the vulnerabilities to shifting
non-resident investor sentiment.”  Reserve Currency  John Piecuch, an S&P spokesman, said the company wouldn’t
make its sovereign analysts available for comment.  When S&P lowered its outlook for the U.S. in April, it
cited the dollar as a reason to keep the top grade, referring to
it four times in a statement. In its Aug. 5 announcement of the
downgrade, the company mentioned it only once, in the 15th of 20
paragraphs.  S&P justified the move by saying “the effectiveness,
stability, and predictability of American policymaking and
political institutions have weakened.”  The U.S. has the world’s top reserve currency, with central
banks keeping 60 percent of their foreign-exchange holdings in
dollars, down from 72.7 percent in 2001, according to the
 International Monetary Fund  in Washington. America is able to
print its own currency, unlike the 17 nations in  Europe  using
the euro, which gave that authority to the  European Central
Bank .  That means the U.S. has the ability to create cash to pay
its debts or devalue to boost imports.  Warren Buffett   “We don’t have to worry so much about our government
becoming dysfunctional as we have to worry about that damn
printing press becoming dysfunctional,” billionaire Warren Buffett,  Berkshire Hathaway Inc .’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said on Aug. 16 in a television interview with Charlie
Rose. “There are 17 countries in Europe that gave up the right
to print money, and believe me they know what it means to give
up the right to print money.”  Buffett, the biggest shareholder of S&P rival Moody’s
Corp., said after the S&P downgrade that the U.S. should be
“quadruple-A.” John Bellows, then the acting assistant
Treasury secretary for economic policy, said S&P made a $2
trillion “mistake” in its math and then changed the rationale
for its decision to politics. S&P denied it made an error or
altered its reasoning.  Ratings Methodologies  S&P said two weeks after the reduction that it would
replace Deven Sharma, its president, with Douglas Peterson, a
Citigroup Inc. executive.  David Beers , head of sovereign
ratings, said last month he was leaving to join the Bank of
Canada next year. Mark Adelson, who oversaw S&P’s methodologies,
was shifted to a research position on Dec. 9.  “The rating downgrade was a political message,”  David Kotok , chief investment officer at Cumberland Advisors Inc.,
said on Dec. 7 in an interview with Sara Eisen on Bloomberg
Television’s “InsideTrack.”  While  marketable   U.S. government debt  has risen to $9.4
trillion from $4.34 trillion in mid-2007 as the government
borrowed to bail out the nation’s banking system and lift the
economy out of recession, the amount of Treasuries outstanding
makes them easier to trade, according to Michael Cirami, a  money
manager  at Boston-based  Eaton Vance Corp. (EV)   “People want to hold them because they’re very liquid and
because they’re among the safest assets that one can hold,”
Cirami, whose firm invests $13.2 billion, said on Dec. 13 in a
telephone interview. “If you downgrade the U.S. from AAA to
AA+, it doesn’t change the liquidity of Treasuries.”  Average Yields  Though the U.S. went from budget surpluses averaging $139.7
billion from 1998 through 2001 to a deficit of $1.29 trillion
last year, the country’s borrowing costs have fallen.  Average debt yields dropped to 1.04 percent as of Dec. 14
from 1.5 percent in July and 6.54 percent in 2000, Bloomberg
data show. The average yield on all types of dollar-denominated
debt fell to 2.11 percent on Dec. 8, according to the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch U.S. Broad Market Index.  That compared with 2.51 percent for the firm’s Global Broad
Market, Ex-U.S. Dollar index. Yields on bonds from elsewhere
were lower as recently as May 12, when they averaged 2.74
percent versus 2.76 percent in the U.S.  “The U.S. is still the place to park assets,” Scott Kimball, who manages $7 billion of bonds at Taplin Canida &
Habacht LLC in Miami, said Dec. 7 in New York. “It is still the
strongest credit in the global financial markets.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zeke Faux in New York at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  