-- Singapore’s Worst Train Shutdown Draws Calls for Resignation of SMRT’s Saw
-- B y   G l e n y s   S i m
-- 2011-12-19T09:21:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/singapore-s-worst-train-shutdown-draws-calls-for-resignation-of-smrt-s-hwa.html
Singapore’s worst subway disruptions
on record have led to calls for rail operator  SMRT Corp. (MRT) ’s Chief
Executive Officer Saw Phaik Hwa to step down. The stock fell the
most in seven weeks.  About 80 people held a public rally in Singapore on Dec. 17
to seek a reversal of the higher taxi fares by cab operators
including SMRT and called for Saw to resign over the train
shutdowns, the worst in the 24 years the  subway system  has been
in operation, the Straits Times reported yesterday.  The subway line running through the shopping district to
the central part of the island was shut on Dec. 15 after damage
to its power rail, and was closed again in less than 36 hours.
The breakdowns, which began Dec. 14 on the peripheral Circle
Line, affected about 222,400 commuters heading to the Orchard
Road retail strip on the last weekend before the Christmas
holiday, based on data compiled by SMRT and the  Straits Times .  “The economic impact is probably insignificant, it is much
more to do with the inconveniences as a result of the travel
disruptions,” said Song Seng Wun, an economist at CIMB Research
Pte in Singapore. “Even if it continues to persist into the
working week, the impact would be smaller than a typical working
week because it’s the Christmas period and many people are on
holiday.”  Most Livable  Singapore was ranked as the Asian city with best quality of
life, according to a  report  published by Mercer on Nov. 29.
Mercer said cities like Singapore received a high ranking for
criteria such as general and personal safety and because they
“have been continuously investing in infrastructure and public
services.”  The Land Transport Authority  said  yesterday a team of 150,
including SMRT workers, found several dislodged “claws” that
supported the rail structure. These were installed to contain
vibrations from passing trains to surrounding buildings, it said
on its website. The government agency also directed SMRT to
impose a 40 kilometer (25 mile) per hour speed limit for trains
running through the affected areas, it said.  The stock lost 2.5 percent to S$1.775 at the close in
Singapore, the biggest drop since Oct. 31. The decline added to
the 13 percent retreat this year, compared with the 18 percent
slide in the benchmark  Straits Times Index. (FSSTI)   Singapore’s government will appoint a committee to
investigate the cause of the disruptions and the findings will
be released to the public, the Straits Times’s Sunday Times
reported yesterday, citing Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong.  ‘Firmer Stance’  Saw, who told local reporters last week she’s “seriously
consider” resigning if there’s a need to do so, told Channel
NewsAsia she has no plans to step down over the disruptions. A
call to the mobile phone held by SMRT’s duty press officer
yesterday wasn’t answered.  “The train service breakdowns happened right after SMRT’s
decision to follow ComfortDelgro and revise its taxi fares
upwards,” Toh Yongrui, an analyst at UOB-Kay Hian, said in a
note to investors on Dec. 16, maintaining his “hold”
recommendation on SMRT shares. “Negative sentiment toward
public transport operators have been rising and the government
may take a firmer stance against service disruptions.”  SMRT, which planned to shut two key subway lines until 10
a.m.  Singapore  time yesterday for checks, further delayed the
reopening of the track through the shopping district before
resuming the service about two hours later, it said in
statements on its website.  “People will forget,” Song said. “If this is just a
temporary disruption in rail services than a more permanent,
persistent one, then it will just be a memory in history.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glenys Sim in Singapore at 
 gsim4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  