-- SKorea Urges Japan Action on ‘Comfort Women’
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   J a e   H u r
-- 2011-12-18T05:48:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/skorea-urges-japan-action-on-comfort-women-.html
South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak 
called for  Japan  to resolve the so-called comfort women issue in
talks with Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  in Kyoto which failed
to produce progress on a bilateral free-trade agreement or  North
Korea .  Japan’s sexual enslavement of Korean women during World War
II remains an obstacle to a partnership between the two nations
that’s crucial to regional peace and security, Lee told Noda in
Kyoto today,  South Korea ’s Yonhap News reported.  The talks came amid two historical disputes that remain
sources of occasional friction. South Korea and Japan both claim
ownership over a group of islets, and Lee is backing demands for
an apology and compensation for women forced into sexual slavery
by Japan’s military.  “The comfort women issue should be resolved right now as
their average age is 86 and some of them have already passed
away,” Lee said, according to a statement on his official
website. Lee spent most of the meeting with Noda addressing the
issue, according to the statement.  Several comfort women and their supporters installed a
bronze statue of a young girl in traditional Korean dress in
front of the Japanese embassy in  Seoul  in protest on Dec. 13.
Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said Japan has asked that
the statue be removed.  More Statues  “I expect the prime minister’s political determination to
resolve the issue, which is a stumbling block for the two
countries to move forward,” the statement said. “Without
sincere action from Japan, we will have second and third statues
whenever an old comfort woman passes away.”  Noda promised that Japan would “think carefully” from a
humanitarian standpoint,  Kyodo News  reported. He asked Lee to
accelerate talks on a free-trade agreement, Kyodo said.  As many as 200,000 women, mostly from Korea and  China , were
forced into sexual servitude during Japan’s occupation of  Asia 
in the first half of the 20th century. The Japanese government
issued an  apology  in 1993 and set up a compensation fund in 1995
that some victims rejected because it was funded by private
contributions.  Noda is seeking to boost Japan’s trade position, which lags
South Korea after Lee’s government last month ratified a free-
trade accord with the U.S. Noda in November announced his
intention to join the Trans-Pacific Partnership talks over the
objections of some ruling party lawmakers concerned a deal would
hurt farmers.  Japan and South Korea are each other’s third-biggest
trading partners and bilateral trade rose 23 percent in 2010 to
8 trillion yen ($103 billion), according to Japanese government
statistics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;
Jae Hur in Tokyo at 
 jhur1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  