-- Hungary’s Central Bank Law Amendments Won’t Quell ECB Concerns, Simor Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2011-12-19T16:44:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/hungary-may-pass-central-bank-law-this-year-matolcsy-says-1-.html
The Hungarian government’s changes
to a central bank bill fall short of quelling the  European
Central Bank ’s concern that led to the suspension of financing
talks, Magyar Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor said.  The changes submitted today fail to explain the need to
enlarge the rate-setting Monetary Council, expand the number of
vice presidents and change their nomination process, Simor said
during a parliamentary hearing in Budapest today.  “There is no need for more Monetary Council members, nor
for vice presidents,” Simor said. “I’m baffled.”  Hungary, a bailout recipient in 2008, requested financial
assistance last month from the  International Monetary Fund  and
the European Union, reversing more than a year of shunning
international aid, after the forint weakened to a record low
against the euro and the government struggled to raise planned
amounts at debt auctions. Talks halted last week after the EU
and IMF cited differences over the central bank law.  The European Commission is concerned about the “intention
of the Hungarian authorities to push forward” with laws that
may “potentially undermine the independence of the central
bank,”  Amadeu Altafaj , spokesman for EU Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn , said on Dec. 16.  The forint strengthened 0.3 percent to 303.01 per euro at
5:13 p.m. in Budapest. The currency has dropped 12 percent
against  Europe ’s common currency since June 30, the most in the
world. Hungary’s sovereign-credit grade was cut to junk at
Moody’s Investors Service last month.  Asserting Influence  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  has been reducing the power of
independent institutions and asserting his influence since
winning elections last year, eschewing criticism from the EU,
the ECB and the  United Nations .  Orban’s lawmakers have narrowed the jurisdiction of the
Constitutional Court, written a new constitution, replaced an
independent Fiscal Council with one dominated by the premier’s
allies, created a media regulator led by ruling-party appointees
and chosen a party member to lead the State Audit Office.  Parts of the media law were among three pieces of
legislation vetoed today by the  Constitutional Court  for curbing
basic freedoms.  The government “pledges to respect” the central bank’s
independence and “won’t try to exert influence over the
monetary authority or its policy makers,” according to one of
eight amendments to the draft law submitted today. Another
states that the central bank can’t “directly” purchase debt
instruments and can’t extend loans to the public sector.  Assure Continuity  Adding a vice president and Monetary Council members is
intended to assure continuity and avoid the leadership’s mandate
expiring simultaneously, Antal Rogan, a ruling-party lawmaker
who submitted the changes, told reporters today. The amendments
address the ECB’s most important concerns, he said.  Lawmakers will approve the modified text this year, ruling-
party parliamentary group leader Janos Lazar told reporters
today.  The law would curb Simor’s power by transferring his right
to name vice presidents to the premier and the country’s
president. It would also expand the rate-setting Monetary
Council to as many as nine members from seven and the number of
central bank vice presidents to as many as three from two.  Lawmakers should consider delaying the approval of the law
as rushing it through Parliament this year is “risky” and may
have “serious consequences” for  Hungary , Simor told a
parliamentary hearing earlier today.  ‘Very Inopportune Time’  “We cannot help but notice how these proposals have come
at a very inopportune time, just as Hungary is seeking to
conclude negotiations on an IMF deal,” Pasquale Diana, an
economist at Morgan Stanley in  London , wrote today in an e-
mailed note.  The bill addresses EU requirements in central bank
regulation and enacts changes necessary before Hungary’s new
constitution comes into force on Jan. 1, Economy Minister  Gyorgy Matolcsy  told HirTV in an interview yesterday.  Simor was this year stripped of his right to nominate two
of the four outside members in the Monetary Council. The
parliamentary majority cut his salary by 75 percent, defying
criticism from the European Commission and the ECB.  In March, Simor said he rejected what he called
“bullying” by a government official to quit before his mandate
expires in 2013. He said the draft law was part of a government
effort for an “almost total takeover” of the central bank.  ‘Detriment of Independence’  “Constant changes in the composition of the MNB’s
decision-making bodies, the increase in the number of Monetary
Council members, together with the possibility of increasing the
number of deputy governors gives rise to concerns whether this
could be used to influence the decision-making process to the
detriment of central bank independence,” the ECB said Dec. 15.  The draft law is part of an effort by Hungary’s government
to open the way to the use of the central bank’s foreign-
currency reserves to boost lending and economic growth, HVG said
on its website today, without citing anyone.  The Cabinet wants to use as much as 5 billion euros ($6.5
billion) of reserves to that end, HVG said. Hungary’s central
bank-reserves totaled 33.6 billion euros at the end of November,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Orban also wants the
Magyar Nemzeti Bank to provide loans from commercial  bank
deposits  parked at the central bank, the website said.  Simor considers the proposals “too risky” and going
beyond the bank’s mandate, HVG said.  History of Meddling  Hungary has a history of meddling with the central bank’s
independence. In 2005, Premier Ferenc Gyurcsany enlarged the
Monetary Council and ended the central bank’s monopoly on the
nomination of new policy makers. Zsigmond Jarai, the bank’s
president at the time, was last year named to head the central
bank’s supervisory board.  Two central bank chiefs were forced out before their term
expired since the end of communism more than two decades ago.
Gyorgy Suranyi lost his job after a year in 1991, when the
country’s first freely elected government changed the central
bank law to give the prime minister the power to replace him. He
served a full term from 1995 to 2001.  Peter Akos Bod, central bank head between 1991 and 1994,
resigned midway through his term, citing “political conflicts”
over the bank’s independence with the Socialist government that
had ousted the administration which installed him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  