-- Turkey Summoning of French Executives Before Armenian Vote Threatens Trade
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r   a n d   J o s h   B a s s e t t
-- 2011-12-19T16:58:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/turkey-summoning-of-french-executives-before-armenian-vote-threatens-trade.html
Turkey is warning  France  of economic
pain if its parliament approves a bill this week that would make
it a crime to deny that Ottoman Turks committed genocide against
Armenians a century ago.  Turkish Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  summoned more than
20 local executives last week from companies including  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  and  Groupama SA  to lobby them against the French
bill, according to two people at the Dec. 15 meeting who spoke
on condition of anonymity because of the sensitivity of the
matter. France will incur “hard-to-fix damages,” Turkish Prime
Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said on Dec. 17. He called on
French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  to block the measure.  Turkey has warned of retaliation in the past, though this
time the threat may be more serious. French carmakers control a
fifth of Turkey’s market and French banks have assets in the
country exceeding $20 billion. The Turkish economy expanded an
annual 8.2 percent in  the third quarter , a pace only exceeded by
 China  among the Group of 20 major economies.  “Today, Turkey has the ability to follow through on its
rhetoric because it believes that it has a stronger hand than it
did in the past,” Soli Ozel, professor of international
relations and political science at Istanbul’s Bilgi University,
said in a telephone interview. “Turkey will not bow down on
this matter.”  Turkey’s 2006 Reaction  After the French parliament in 2006 approved a bill
identifying the killings as genocide, Erdogan blocked Gaz de
France SA’s participation in the 7.9 billion-euro ($10.3
billion) Nabucco pipeline and suspended military relations with
France. The French Embassy in Ankara didn’t respond to requests
for comment. Turkey last year temporarily withdrew its
ambassador from the U.S. after a  House of Representatives 
committee approved a resolution recognizing the World War I
killings as genocide.  Tahsin Burcuoglu, Turkey’s envoy to Paris, booked a flight
to Ankara and will be absent for a long period if the French
parliament passes the measure in a Dec. 22 vote, the Istanbul-
based Hurriyet newspaper said, citing a diplomatic cable.  A French military airplane violated Turkey’s airspace on
Dec. 17, the Turkish armed forces said today. The C-160 cargo
plane flew unauthorized for three minutes over an area of the
Aegean Sea to Turkey’s southwest, the military General Staff in
Ankara said in a  statement  on its website. The army said it
informed the Foreign Ministry of the breach.  ‘Significant’ Loss  Following Davutoglu’s meeting with the executives, the
Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of  Turkey , or TOBB,
sent a letter to French companies and Turkish firms doing
business with France, warning of actions that will “cause a
significant economic loss” if the measure passes, according to
the two people at the gathering.  “If the proposed legislation becomes law, there will be a
serious protest against French products in Turkey,” TOBB said
in the letter addressed to Sarkozy. A copy of the letter, which
the companies were asked to sign and return to the trade group,
was obtained by Bloomberg News.  There are 960 French firms with direct investments in
Turkey, according to the letter. An official with the group
confirmed that it sent the letter to hundreds of companies and
declined to give further details. The official commented on
condition of anonymity because he wasn’t authorized to speak
publicly on the matter. A Foreign Ministry official, speaking on
customary condition of anonymity, confirmed that the meeting
with Davutoglu took place, without detailing its participants.  Turkish Lobbying  Members of a Turkish delegation led by  TOBB  and the Turkish
Industry and Business Association are in Paris to lobby their
counterparts against the measure, according to a statement from
the groups on their websites.  Turkey is France’s 11th- largest export  market and ranks
16th among countries exporting goods to  Europe ’s second-biggest
economy, according to the French Trade Ministry. French exports
to Turkey were less than 2.5 percent of the annual 424 billion
euros in sales abroad.  The French proposal would punish people who say that the
killings in eastern Turkey aren’t genocide with a year in prison
and a 45,000-euro fine.  Ottoman Empire   The Turkish government denies that genocide occurred,
saying tens of thousands of ethnic Turks and Armenians died in
clashes during World War I under the Ottoman Empire, which
preceded modern-day Turkey, after Armenian groups sided with
 Russia . Armenians say the Ottomans killed 1.5 million ethnic
Armenians from 1915 to 1923 as part of a campaign of genocide.  About 20 countries including Greece, Canada and Russia,
Turkey’s second-biggest trading partner behind  Germany ,
recognize the events as genocide.  “We’re ready to face history, but if we’re denied the
opportunity to do so and a dogma is created, we will start
talking about French colonialism and imperialism in every
country we visit, including all of  Africa ,” Davutoglu told
reporters yesterday. “We will start speaking of the truth.”  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) , part-owned by BNP Paribas SA, is
among the 10 biggest banks in Turkey, with 42.4 billion liras
($23 billion) in assets as of Sept. 30, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. France’s two biggest carmakers, PSA
Peugeot Citroen and Renault SA, had combined sales of 158,844
vehicles in Turkey through November, or 22 percent of this
year’s total, according to the Automotive Distributors
Association.  “Such an effort won’t benefit anyone,” Erdogan said,
referring to the French parliament’s actions. Turkey will stand
against it “in every diplomatic way possible,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net ;
Josh Bassett in Istanbul at 
 jbassett2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  