-- Havel, Czech Writer Who Led Revolution, Dies
-- B y   D o u g l a s   L y t l e
-- 2011-12-18T17:24:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/vaclav-havel-czech-dissident-playwright-who-became-president-dies-at-75.html
Vaclav Havel, the dissident
playwright who served time in  Czechoslovakia ’s communist prisons
before leading a revolution that ushered democracy into central
Europe and hoisted him into the Czech presidency, has died. He
was 75.  Havel, who suffered a long illness, passed away in his
sleep at his weekend cottage in Hradecek, northern Czech
Republic, said former spokesman Ladislav Spacek by phone in
Prague today. Leaders including U.S. President  Barack Obama , EU
Commission President  Jose Barroso  and German Chancellor  Angela
Merkel  offered tributes.  Havel was an international symbol for his opposition to
totalitarian regimes in the former Soviet bloc, culminating in
the 1989 Velvet Revolution. He held the nation’s highest office
for almost 13 years. Along with  Nelson Mandela  and  Lech Walesa ,
he was seen as an emblem of democracy for millions worldwide.  “His peaceful resistance shook the foundations of an
empire, exposed the emptiness of a repressive ideology, and
proved that moral leadership is more powerful than any weapon,”
said Obama in a statement from the White House. “He also
embodied the aspirations of half a continent that had been cut
off by the Iron Curtain, and helped unleash tides of history
that led to a united and democratic  Europe .”  Health Problems  As Czech government leaders planned meetings to discuss
holding a state funeral, thousands of Czech turned out to pay
tribute. More than a 1,000 converged on Wenceslas Square, where
Havel helped rally people during the 1989 Velvet Revolution, to
light candles and lay flowers.  A chain smoker until the mid-1990s, Havel had a history of
lung problems dating back to his time in prison, where he didn’t
receive proper treatment. He suffered repeated bouts of
bronchitis and pneumonia and underwent an operation in December
1996 that removed a small malignant tumor along with a part of
his lung.  Havel served as president of Czechoslovakia from the end of
1989 until 1992. In 1993, he became president of the Czech
Republic, which was founded after the split of Czechoslovakia
into two countries, a move he opposed.  “Vaclav Havel leaves our world better for having been a
part of it,” said Czech-born Madeleine K. Albright, who was
Secretary of State to former President  Bill Clinton , in a
statement. “He was among the handful of true democratic
champions, an artist more than a politician, but an ambassador
of the human conscience above all.”  Havel was re-elected for his second and final term in early
1998 and left office in 2003.  Civil Society  “His dedication to freedom and democracy remains as
unforgotten as does his great humaneness,” said Merkel in a
letter to President Vaclav Klaus, Havel’s successor. “We
Germans, especially owe much to him. Together with you, we are
mourning the loss of a great European.”  While his official authority as president was limited by
the Czech constitution, Havel used the presidency as a platform
for building what he called a “civil society.”  As one of history’s only philosopher-presidents, he sought
to educate his fellow citizens in speeches and regular radio
addresses about how a democracy was supposed to function.  ‘Moral’ Politics  “As ridiculous or quixotic as it may sound these days, it
is my responsibility to emphasize, again and again, the moral
origin of all genuine politics,” Havel wrote in “ Summer
Meditations ,” a book of essays published in 1991, one year into
his presidency.  Finally free of foreign occupation, Czechoslovakia must
cultivate “higher responsibility,” or “things will turn out
very badly indeed,” Havel wrote. In 2009, he lambasted the
consumerism embraced by his fellow Czechs in recent years and
described Mafiosi and back-street money-changers as the new
economic elite.  “We are living in the first truly atheistic society, and
there’s no feeling that there is any kind of moral anchor,” he
said in a Bloomberg interview published June 18, 2009.  In the years after the fall of communism in 1989, Havel’s
reputation and his ideas brought international renown to his new
country. He was a strong advocate for expansion of the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization and the European Union. Under his
presidency, the  Czech Republic  became a NATO member in March
1999 and joined the EU in 2004.  Party Broker  “Vaclav Havel was a pioneer of the European reunification.
The rise of democracy in central and eastern Europe would have
been unthinkable without him and his courageous words,” said
German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  in an e-mailed
statement. “I bow before this great champion for democracy and
freedom. We mourn with the Czech people.”  Havel belonged to no party and his most important domestic
political role was as a broker, helping negotiate the formation
of an interim government after the collapse in late 1997 of the
government of then-Premier Klaus amid corruption allegations
against his party.  Frequently referred to as “the two Vaclavs,” Havel and
Klaus often sparred over the direction of the Czech Republic’s
political and economic destiny. Havel suggested at times that he
considered Klaus’s politics to be too materialistic and lenient
with regard to white-collar crime following numerous cases of
asset-stripping during the 1990s.  Moral Crisis  In his most critical remarks on Klaus’s outgoing
government, in December 1997, Havel said the economic
transformation “stopped halfway” because of the leaders’
egotism and overstated sense of success.  Havel criticized Klaus’s government for letting the country
slide into a moral crisis, leading many Czechs to feel that “it
pays off in this country to lie and to steal; that many
politicians and civil servants are corruptible.”  When Klaus’s Civic  Democratic Party  went into opposition,
Havel continued to protest as Klaus swayed Prime Minister Milos
Zeman’s Czech  Social Democratic Party  to support legislation
making it difficult for smaller parties to enter parliament and
efforts to change the constitution to limit presidential powers.  Havel also clashed with Klaus on moral principles when
Havel invited  Salman Rushdie , a British writer condemned to
death by Ayatollah Khomeini for a book that the one-time Iranian
religious leader considered disrespectful to Islam, to visit the
Czech Republic. Klaus has said the invitation might hurt the
Czech trade with Arab countries.  ‘Citizen Havel’  “Citizen Havel,” a documentary from 2008, shows the two
jousting in private meetings and Havel’s team discussing how
best to handle Klaus and other politicians who were trying to
push their own agendas on the president. In “To the Castle and
Back,” his 2007 autobiography, Havel noted that he eventually
dreaded having to deal with Klaus and would seek ways of
avoiding him if possible.  “Because of my innate sense of courtesy and my distaste
for confrontation, I was often the loser, but fortunately never
in anything of importance,” Havel wrote, recounting Klaus’s
anger at Havel’s support for NATO, the EU, the  United Nations 
and international meetings with personalities such as musicians
Frank Zappa and the  Rolling Stones .  In another expression of support to those oppressed by
totalitarian regimes, Havel invited the  Dalai Lama , Tibet’s
exiled spiritual leader. He also supported a NATO bombing
campaign that drove Serbian troops out of  Kosovo  in 1999, saying
steps need to be taken to ensure “putting a halt to the
killings of Kosovo citizens and them being driven from their
homes.”  International Awards  Havel, who won more than a dozen international prizes for
his political and peacemaking efforts as well as his writings,
was imprisoned three times for opposing the communist regime in
Czechoslovakia and altogether spent almost five years behind
bars. He was one of the first three spokesmen of a 1977 movement
called Charter 77, in which a group of Czech intellectuals
called on the communist government to respect human rights.  Havel was born into a prominent  Prague  family. The
communist regime kept him from studying where he wanted to, so
he attended a technical university. He left his studies in 1957
and became a propsman in a Prague theater after completing his
military service.  He was eventually accepted to the Prague DAMU theater
academy. After the 1968 Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, Havel
worked various jobs, including as a laborer in a brewery, a job
that went on to inspire his play “Audience.”  Rock Influence  Music, and specifically rock ‘n’ roll, played an important
part in Havel’s personal and political life. A fan of the Velvet
Underground and the Rolling Stones, Havel took inspiration from
their music, filled with personal expression, irreverence of
convention and rebelliousness, and was a regular visitor to
major concerts in Prague.  Writer Tom Stoppard’s play “Rock & Roll,” which debuted
in  London  in 2006, used rock music as a metaphor for his play
about life in 1970s-era Czechoslovakia.  “What I found extremely interesting in Stoppard’s tale is
how, in the conditions of a totalitarian system, every instance
of free expression somehow ends up in conflict with the
system,” Havel told the  Daily Telegraph  in July 2006 after the
premiere. “That original confrontation needn’t have necessarily
been over rock music; it might have easily have been over
microbiology, for instance.”  Prolific Playwright  From 1960 to 1988, Havel wrote 17 plays, many of which were
performed on stages around the world. During the same period,
Havel became known for his political essays, which included
“The Power of the Powerless” and “Politics and Conscience.”  The letters from prison to his wife, Olga, were later
published as “Letters to Olga.”  His autobiography eschewed a conventional retelling of his
life in favor of interviews, personal observations and notes
about his time in power and a sabbatical spent in the U.S.  “If I’ve made any mistakes, then they probably all derive
from my awkwardness, my indecisiveness, politeness that slips
easily into compromise,” Havel wrote. “I didn’t know how to
make proper use of the authority I had, particularly in that
first period and I didn’t know how to maintain that authority.”  His health problems, dislike for the trappings of public
office and endless battles with politicians featured greatly in
his autobiography, and Havel said he sometimes felt as alone and
trapped as when he was locked in a prison cell.  Final Play  “He is inscrutable, and this may be his genius,” writer
Paul Berman said. “Inscrutability transforms him into an
enigmatic symbol, capable somehow of summoning other people to
project upon him their own best hopes and ideals. And yet his
own frailties turn out to be his largest theme.”  His final years were dominated by “Leaving,” a play about
a politician who finds difficulty relinquishing the power he had
come to enjoy. A film based on the play was released on March
22, 2011, and Havel attended the premier in Prague.  He also worked on assembling his personal papers for a
library, which is in the planning stages in a building near the
castle he used to occupy as president.  Havel, who didn’t have children, married a popular Czech
actress, Dagmar Veskrnova, in January 1997, a year after Olga’s
death from cancer. She was at the cottage with him when he died,
along with a nurse who had been caring for him.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Lytle in Prague at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  