-- Woodside May Delay Decision on Browse LNG Project Until 2013
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2011-12-19T06:32:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-18/woodside-may-delay-browse-project-investment-decision-to-2013.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) , Australia’s
second-largest oil producer, may delay an  investment decision  to
develop the Browse liquefied natural gas venture by at least six
months to 2013 as project costs climb.  The partners in the Browse venture, estimated to cost $36
billion, plan to ask the  Western Australia  state government to
extend a deadline for a decision to the first half of 2013 from
mid-2012, the Perth-based company said today in a statement.  Chief Executive Officer  Peter Coleman  is facing higher
costs, funding challenges and sales competition from the U.S. as
he seeks to develop more than A$70 billion ($70 billion) in LNG
projects, including Browse. The partners may not proceed with
the plan to build the project’s processing plant onshore at
James Price Point, according to Credit Suisse AG.  “A James Price Point development is one of the more
challenging” LNG projects in  Australia , Ben Wilson, an analyst
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by telephone today from Sydney.
“We’ll see continued deferrals.”  Woodside dropped 3.4 percent to A$30.24 in Sydney trading,
taking its decline to 29 percent this year. The benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index fell 2.4 percent today and 14 percent this
year.  The cost of building Browse at James Price Point on the
Kimberley coast may have surged to $36 billion from an earlier
estimate of $30 billion, Credit Suisse analysts led by Sandra McCullagh said last month. Woodside may decide to process Browse
gas at an existing production hub at Karratha, they said.  Adding Realism  The statement from Woodside today “is in line with what
Coleman has done so far -- add a bit of realism to the project
estimates,” JPMorgan’s Wilson said.  Woodside remains “committed” to the plan for a new LNG
hub at James Price Point, Coleman told reporters on a call.  The partners in the planned Browse project are  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  The
federal government, which wants oil and gas resources to be
commercially developed as fast as possible, set the existing
deadline two years ago. The companies were allowed to keep nine
leases covering the Browse fields.  The partners are in talks on the planned request for
amendments to the Browse leases, Woodside said.  “There’s a lot of work in front of us,” Coleman said
today. “We’d rather not rush to the finish line and not have
any breath left. These are big decisions.”  Woodside expects its Pluto LNG project in Western Australia
to cost A$14.9 billion, the third increase since November 2009,
the oil producer said in June. Pluto’s first cargoes are
scheduled for March 2012, six months later than it had expected,
Woodside said at the time.  “The project is progressing as we expected,” Coleman said
today. “March is still firmly within our sights.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  