-- 
‘Abnormal’ Trading Declines, FHA Report, Barclays, Lloyds-BOE: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-06-14T13:12:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/-abnormal-trading-declines-fha-report-lloyds-boe-compliance.html
Unusual share price movements in the
two days before takeovers announced by U.K. companies last year
fell 9.4 percent, in a sign that  insider trading  may be
decreasing.  There were “abnormal pre-announcement price movements”
before 21.2 percent of the 118 deal notices in the U.K. in 2010,
the Financial Services Authority said in its  annual report ,
published yesterday. That was down from 30.6 percent in 2009,
and the lowest rate since 2003.  Factors other than insider trading, such as speculation by
analysts or the press about an upcoming deal, or information
leaks, could be the cause of the share price movements, the
regulator said. The FSA has made market abuse and insider
trading by top bankers a focus of its enforcement efforts.  Also over the past year, the FSA required all banks and
building societies to carry out reverse stress-testing, where
firms list scenarios that could lead to a financial collapse.
The watchdog said it will review the results “over the next
year or so” and respond to the firms that took part.  The FSA implemented rules approved by European Union
regulators last year intended to curb incentives for excessive
risk-taking last year, imposing limits on cash payouts and the
size of bankers’ bonuses.  Compliance Action  Rothschild Loses to Evercore as Boutique Left Off FSA Bonus List  Evercore Partners Inc. and Greenhill and Co. will be able
to pay employees guaranteed bonuses forbidden at rival deal
advisers such as NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd., after escaping
scrutiny from the U.K. Financial Services Authority.  Evercore, founded by former U.S. Deputy Treasury Secretary
Roger Altman, is among companies offering financial advice such
as Gleacher Shacklock LLP and Moelis & Co. that aren’t on a list
of 2,776 firms covered by FSA bonus rules. Competitors including
Rothschild, New York-based Perella Weinberg Partners LP and
 Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  are on the list, obtained by Bloomberg News after a
Freedom of Information request.  The guidelines apply to firms taking risks with their own
cash or that of clients, leading to the exclusion of advisory
firms that may not manage money in the U.K. Companies covered by
the rules, which must be implemented by next month, can’t offer
multiyear guaranteed bonuses and will only be able to pay one-
year guarantees in “exceptional circumstances,” the FSA said.  The rules enact guidelines approved by European Union
 regulators  last year to curb excessive risk-taking. The FSA
expanded the firms covered by bonus rules a hundredfold from the
27 biggest banks to more than 2,700 entities last year to
conform to the European guidelines.  Joseph Eyre, FSA spokesman, declined to comment, as did
officials at New York-based Moelis,  Perella Weinberg ,
Rothschild, Evercore, Greenhill, Lazard and London-based
Gleacher Shacklock.  The agency applied the guidelines from the EU to its
revised bonus rules and separated financial firms into four
groups based on their size.  For more, click here.  U.S. Regulator Says Taxpayers Still at Risk From Fannie, Freddie  Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the mortgage companies
operating under U.S. control, are improving their financial
condition but remain a risk to taxpayers, the companies’
regulator reported.  In its third annual report to Congress released yesterday,
the Federal Housing Finance Agency said improved underwriting on
the loans that the companies package into mortgage-backed
securities helped slow the agencies’ losses to $28 billion in
2010, from $93.6 billion a year earlier.  The agency “has improved underwriting standards for loan
purchases in the past two years,” Edward DeMarco, its acting
director, said in the  report .  Still, DeMarco said, the companies “remain critical
supervisory concerns,” largely because of a backlog of bad
loans originated from 2005 to 2007.  The government-run enterprises, which own or guarantee more
than half of the $10 trillion U.S. mortgage market, operated as
private companies before they were taken into government
conservatorship in September 2008 after soaring losses linked to
subprime home loans. Since then, Washington-based Fannie Mae and
Freddie Mac of McLean, Virginia, have survived on a promise of
unlimited U.S. aid and drawn more than $160 billion in Treasury
Department funding.  For more, click here.  OCC Extends Deadline for Mortgage-Servicer Action Plans  The  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency , at the
request of the U.S. Department of Justice, has extended the
deadline for action plans required under consent orders issued
on April 13 against eight residential mortgage servicers.  The 30-day extension will allow coordination by federal and
state agencies, the OCC said yesterday in a statement.  Barclays Will Pay U.K. Customers’ Payment Insurance Claims  Barclays Plc (BARC)  will reimburse the full payment-protection
insurance premiums plus 8 percent interest to customers whose
claims were put on hold during a court challenge.  The bank will compensate customers sold payment-protection
insurance without being told they could buy it from another
lender, Barclays said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. The
 British Bankers’ Association , an industry group, lost a court
challenge in April to the Financial Services Authority’s PPI
guidelines.  Barclays, Lloyds Banking Group Plc and  Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  were given more time to handle the customer
complaints by the FSA yesterday after the court challenge
created a backlog. Barclays said in May it would set aside 1
billion pounds ($1.63 billion) to resolve the claims.  The banks have as much as 16 weeks to respond to the
complaints, rather than eight weeks, the Financial Services
Authority said in a statement yesterday.  PPI generates as much as 5.5 billion pounds in annual
revenue for U.K. banks, the FSA has estimated.  ECB-German Standoff Risks Damage That May Force Compromise  The confrontation between the  European Central Bank  and
Germany over bailing out Greece risks causing so much damage
that officials may be forced to compromise.  ECB President Jean-Claude Trichet and German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  are at odds over investors’ role in
the second Greek rescue in 14 months. The dispute turns on how
politicians make good on a promise to push creditors to pay some
of the cost, a step that Trichet said on June 9 could be an
“enormous mistake.”  Unless a deal can be struck to guarantee Greece’s financing
needs for the next 12 months, the  International Monetary Fund 
has threatened to withhold its share of what remains of Greece’s
original 110 billion-euro ($159 billion) bailout. Finance
ministers have called a special meeting scheduled for today as
they try to avoid what  European Economic and Monetary Affairs 
Commissioner Olli Rehn called a “Lehman Brothers catastrophe on
European soil.”  The cost to insure Greek debt against default, already the
most expensive in the world, rose to a record yesterday and
bonds of  Europe ’s bailed-out nations slumped. The swaps indicate
a 74 percent chance of default in the next five years.  The debt crisis has already forced Trichet to tear up the
rule book. The ECB is lending unlimited amounts of cash to
support banking systems and has relaxed collateral requirements.  For more, click here.  Lloyds Poised to End Bank of England Support, Canaccord Says  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , the U.K.’s biggest mortgage
lender, may wean itself off emergency central bank funding
support by the end of the month, according to an analyst at
Canaccord Genuity Ltd.  The  Bank of England  yesterday said lenders had reduced
dependence on its  Special Liquidity Scheme  to 37 billion pounds
($60 billion) at the end of May, from 185 billion pounds in
January 2009. Lloyds, led by Antonio Horta-Osorio had about 26
billion pounds of support from the program remaining at the end
of March.  Lloyds, 41 percent government-owned, and Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, Britain’s biggest taxpayer-owned bank, were
the biggest users of the scheme, introduced during the 2008
banking crisis to allow lenders to swap hard-to-trade mortgage-
backed securities for  government bonds  and so improve liquidity.
The termination of government and central bank support is a
vital prerequisite for the sale of taxpayer’s bank stakes,
analysts have said.  Horta-Osorio, who succeeded  Eric Daniels  in May, will
outline his strategy for Lloyds on June 30.  For more, click here.  Ex-Trader Alexander to Pay $1.6 Million for Manipulating Shares  A self-employed trader was fined 700,000 pounds ($1.15
million) and ordered to pay more than 300,000 pounds in
restitution for manipulating the price of shares traded on the
London Stock Exchange.  Barnett Michael Alexander, a former private-client
stockbroker, made multiple small buy and sell orders in an
effort to manipulate the price of contracts-for-differences, or
CfDs, and spread bets so he could benefit, the Financial
Services Authority said in a statement today. He generated a
629,130-pound profit over 16 months, the FSA said. The regulator
banned him from working in the finance industry for five years.  The regulator obtained a permanent injunction against
Alexander committing market abuse. The Glasgow-based trader
qualified for the FSA’s standard 30 percent discount for
cooperating with the probe and must pay restitution of 301,005
pounds to City Index Ltd., 4,609 pounds to  London Capital Group
Holdings Plc (LCG) , and 17,204 pounds to Monecor (London) Ltd.  A number for Alexander wasn’t available from the FSA
registry and the agency couldn’t immediately provide contact
information for his attorney.  Courts/Arbitration Panels  UBS Loses Finra Arbitration Case Brought by Former 76ers Owner  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, will pay Pat Croce,
former part-owner of the Philadelphia 76ers basketball team,
about $2 million to compensate for losses on structured products
backed by  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)   A Financial Industry Regulatory Authority arbitration panel
ruled June 9 that UBS is responsible for $1.52 million plus
interest in damages. A UBS broker sold $2 million of
“principal-protected” Lehman notes to Croce and his wife,
Diane, on June 25, 2008, less than three months before the bank
failed, said Jacob Zamansky, their attorney.  The Zurich-based bank sold $1 billion of the Lehman
products to U.S. investors, according to spokeswoman Allison
Chin-Leong. It’s been ordered to repay investors some or all of
their losses in seven of the eight cases involving the
securities that have been decided by Finra panels.  The broker who sold the notes has since quit the firm,
saying he was misled by UBS, Zamansky said. The New York-based
lawyer has more than 40 pending cases against UBS for Lehman
“100% Principal-Protection Notes,” totaling more $25 million,
he said.  “The vast majority of Lehman notes were sold
appropriately,” and the failure of Lehman was “unexpected and
unprecedented,” Chin-Leong said. The panel voted 2 to 1 and
didn’t provide a reason for its decision.  Banks create structured products by bundling debt with
derivatives and offer them to individual investors as an
alternative to traditional investments.  Ex-Galleon Trader Zvi Goffer Convicted of Insider Trading  Former Galleon Group LLC hedge fund trader Zvi Goffer was
convicted on all counts by a federal jury in Manhattan in the
second trial to result from the U.S. government’s nationwide
crackdown on insider trading.  Goffer’s brother Emanuel and Michael Kimelman were also
found guilty of conspiracy and securities fraud yesterday by a
jury that began deliberations June 2. The verdict comes about a
month after Goffer’s boss, Galleon co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam ,
was found guilty in the same courthouse of directing the biggest
hedge fund insider trading scheme in history.  Rajaratnam and Zvi Goffer were key players in three
overlapping insider-trading conspiracies that implicated banks,
technology firms, hedge funds and so-called expert networking
firms.  Goffer, 34, his brother and Kimelman were charged with
using tips from two lawyers to profit on trades in 3Com Corp.,
Axcan Pharma Inc., Kronos Inc. and Hilton Hotels Corp.  Zvi Goffer’s lawyers argued their client sometimes bluffed
about having inside information to impress other Wall Street
traders. Lawyers for Emanuel Goffer and Kimelman said that their
clients weren’t part of any alleged conspiracy with Zvi Goffer.  Rajaratnam, who was convicted on all 14 counts against him,
faces as long as 19 1/2 years in prison when he’s sentenced on
July 29.  The case is U.S. v. Goffer, 10-cr-00056, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Interviews/Speeches  Cohan Says ‘No Question’ Goldman Shorted Mortgage Market  William Cohan, author of “Money and Power: How Goldman
Sachs Came to Rule the World” and a Bloomberg Television
contributing editor, talked about Goldman Sachs’s position on
mortgage securities before the market’s collapse.  Cohan spoke with Erik Schatzker and Deirdre Bolton on
Bloomberg Television’s “InsideTrack.” (William D. Cohan is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are his own.)  For the video, click here.  Goldberg Says Banks Beginning to Experience Loan Growth  Jason Goldberg , senior analyst at Barclays Capital Inc.
discussed the potential impact of new federal government
financial regulations on U.S. banking industry earnings.  Goldberg spoke on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness with
Margaret Brennan.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  Obama Picks Martin Gruenberg to Succeed Bair at FDIC  President Barack Obama intends to nominate Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. Vice Chairman Martin J. Gruenberg to succeed
 Sheila Bair  as chairman, according to a White House statement.  Gruenberg has served as the agency’s vice chairman since
2005, and served as acting chairman for six months in 2005 and
2006. Obama announced his selection in an e-mailed statement
June 10. Bloomberg News previously reported Obama’s decision.  Gruenberg would replace Bair, who took office in June 2006.
Before joining the agency, Gruenberg served as senior counsel to
Senator Paul Sarbanes, a Maryland Democrat, and as staff counsel
to the Senate Banking subcommittee on international finance and
monetary policy.  His nomination is subject to confirmation by the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 