-- 
‘Tidal Wave’ of Gold Demand Coming From China, India as Economies Expand

-- B y   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n   a n d   M i l l i e   M u n s h i
-- 
2011-06-14T15:11:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/-tidal-wave-of-gold-demand-coming-from-china-india-as-economies-expand.html
Gold may extend its decade-long
rally as demand surges from emerging markets including  China  and
 India , according to the producer-funded World Gold Council.  “There’s a tidal wave of gold demand coming,” Jason Toussaint, the WGC’s managing director of U.S. and Investment,
said today at the Bloomberg Link Money Managers Conference in
 Boston . “A key is the long-term fundamental change in emerging
markets. The biggest markets of growth are China and India.”  Gold is up 7 percent in  New York  this year, touching a
record $1,577.40 an ounce on May 2. The metal has gained
fivefold since the end of 2000. India is the biggest consumer of
the metal and China is the second-biggest, according to data
from the council.  “There’s been a tremendous surge in the monetary base
globally,”  Edward Meir , a senior commodity analyst at MF Global
Holdings Ltd., said at the conference. “The dollar is losing
its luster. The natural currency to be bought is the yuan, but
because you can’t buy the yuan, people are buying gold.”  China’s gold buying surged 47 percent in the first quarter
and may double before 2020 as the nation’s population and wealth
increases and as investment demand expands because of near-term
concerns that inflation is accelerating, the council predicted
in May.  Most investors in China and India hold gold in the form of
jewelry, which accounted for 63 percent of global purchases in
the first quarter.  “Gold doesn’t seem over-owned from an investor perspective
and will probably move higher,”  Jeffrey Kleintop , the chief
market strategist at LPL Financial Corp. in Boston, said at the
conference.  Gold futures for August delivery rose $5.70, or 0.4
percent, to $1,521.30 an ounce at 11:03 a.m. on the Comex in New
York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pham-Duy Nguyen in Seattle at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Millie Munshi in New York at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  