-- 
Abhisit Targets Fewer Than Half Seats in Thai Election as Popularity Slips

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-06-14T08:19:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/abhisit-targets-fewer-than-half-seats-in-thai-election-as-popularity-slips.html
Thai Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  said his Democrat party would be happy if it won more
than 200 seats in the country’s 500-seat parliament after it
slipped in opinion polls ahead of July 3 elections due to rising
prices.  “Anything above 200 looks good,” Abhisit, 46, said to a
group of reporters at his party’s headquarters in Bangkok today.
“As things stand it looks like a tight race. The 200 figure
appears to be where both sides are on either side of.”  The Democrats are seeking to make up ground after opinion
surveys showed the party trailing main challenger Pheu Thai
ahead of the contest. Pheu Thai is led by Yingluck Shinawatra,
the sister of ex-leader  Thaksin Shinawatra , who was ousted in a
2006 coup and lives overseas after fleeing a two-year jail
sentence.  High prices are one of the factors “that have seen us slip
a little,” Abhisit said. “We’re doing what we can to address
the issues. Sometimes maybe people don’t see what we are doing
for them.”  Thai inflation accelerated to 4.2 percent in May from 4
percent a month earlier.  Election Protests  Concerns that a disputed result will lead to a repeat of
protests after the last election that left more than 100 people
dead have weighed on stocks. Global funds sold $700 million more
local shares than they bought this month through June 13, the
biggest drop of 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg data.  The benchmark SET Index rose 0.7 percent as of 3:14 p.m. in
Bangkok today.  Thailand ’s baht, the worst performer among 10
major Asian currencies over the past six months, was little
changed.  Abhisit’s party has pledged to guarantee farmer incomes,
raise the minimum wage 25 percent and offer two-year interest-
free mortgages for first-time home buyers. Pheu Thai plans to
give credit cards to farmers, mandate starting salaries for new
graduates and charge a flat fee for Bangkok’s mass transit
lines.  “Both parties present equally attractive populist policies
as far as it appears to voters,” Supavud Saicheua, managing
director of Phatra Securities Pcl, Thailand’s second-biggest
brokerage by market value, wrote in a June 13 note. “The
problem would be the ability to pay for it without cutting
further into more useful government-led infrastructure
investments.”  National Support  The election will be the first test of national support
since Abhisit took power in a 2008 parliamentary vote when
smaller parties abandoned Thaksin’s allies after a court
dissolved the ruling party for election fraud. Pro-Thaksin
parties have won the most seats in the past four elections.  Abhisit’s Democrats hold 36 percent of the seats in
parliament. Pheu Thai holds 39 percent, with seven remaining
smaller parties accounting for 24 percent. The Democrats rule in
a coalition with six of those smaller parties.  An internal police poll that didn’t include Bangkok or the
far south of the country found Pheu Thai leading in half of 331
constituencies, compared with 25 percent for the Democrat party,
the Bangkok Post  reported  on June 12. Of the 500 seats up for
grabs, 375 are selected in districts and 125 through
proportional representation.  A  Bangkok University poll  showed Pheu Thai leading in 21 of
the capital’s 33 constituencies. The Democrat party was ahead in
six districts while six others were too close to call, according
to the poll, which surveyed 3,323 residents of the capital from
June 2 to June 9. The poll had a margin of error of 2 percentage
points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  