-- 
Abramovich’s Partner Browses Basel as $5.5 Million Rothko Sells

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-06-14T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/abramovich-s-partner-browses-basel-5-5-million-rothko-sells-in-vip-spree.html
Roman Abramovich’s partner Dasha Zhukova, model  Naomi Campbell  and actor Will Ferrell were among
VIPs yesterday at the world’s largest fair of modern and
contemporary art in  Switzerland , which opened with a spending
spree on works such as a $5.5 million Mark Rothko abstract.  Sheikha Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, daughter
of the emir of Qatar, and the U.S. collectors Eli Broad and Don
and Mera Rubell were also at the 42nd Art  Basel ’s packed
preview. Exhibitors were reminded of free-spending fairs before
the 2008 financial crisis cut prices and demand.  The event features works by more than 2,500 artists valued
at more than $1.75 billion, shown by 300 galleries from 35
countries. In its first hours, both experienced and new wealthy
buyers were looking for alternative forms of investment to
counter concerns about low  interest rates , stock prices and weak
economic growth.  “This year’s Art Basel reminds me of the boom,” said
 Philip Hoffman , chief executive of the London-based  Fine Art
Fund , which sold four pieces priced at more than 5 million
pounds ($8.2 million) through exhibiting dealers. “Wealthy
people are looking to art as a hedge against recession. And
they’re being better advised than they were in 2007. Then I saw
some idiots buying anything.”  The Rothko, a 1969 orange work in oils on paper mounted on
canvas offered by New York-based  L & M Arts , was one of the
early confirmed sales of more than $5 million. The fair is
bristling with substantially priced works by major-name 20th-
century artists.  Euro Prices  “Some of the prices are a little high, but the euro is
strong against the dollar,” the New York-based collector
Alberto Mugrabi said in an interview. “The quality is good this
year, and things are moving.”  The Swiss dealer Galerie Bruno Bischofberger presented the
1980 Andy Warhol screen printed canvas “Onehundredandfifty
Black/ White/ Grey Marilyns,” measuring 33 feet (10 meters)
wide and priced at $80 million. It attracted a reserve from a
European collector during the fair’s opening minutes. The
reserve was lifted a few hours later when the seller’s family
decided to withdraw it, according to the gallery director,
Tobias Mueller.  “There’s a lot of good stuff here,” said the New York-
based art adviser and dealer Cristin Tierney. “The secondary
market for blue-chip works has been healthy. The collectors you
want to see are here, and they’re buying. People are
particularly looking at works from the 1960s and 1970s.”  Warhol, Hirst  The Zurich dealer  Thomas Ammann Fine Art AG  presented a
striking silver-walled booth exclusively devoted to Warhol and
 Damien Hirst . The centerpiece was a row of 13 Warhol screen-
printed boxes of Campbell’s Tomato Juice, dating from 1964 and
sourced from private collections. Priced at $1.1 million each,
two found buyers during the first few hours of the fair.  “It’s like 2007 again in some ways,” said Alex Logsdail,
associate director of the  Lisson Gallery , who had sold 15 pieces
within the first four hours. “People have more time to make
decisions than then, though they did have to hurry today.”  Lisson sold a black wall sculpture by  Anish Kapoor  for
550,000 pounds and a stereogram by Haroon Mirza -- who won the
 Silver Lion  for the most promising young artist at this year’s
Venice Biennale -- for 16,000 pounds.  “The rich are getting richer,” said Wendy Goldsmith, a
London-based art adviser. “They come off the plane and want to
buy. People who sell privately to dealers are asking high
prices, yet most of the things I asked about had already been
sold.”  Reserved Bacon  Francis Bacon ’s 1971 “Study of George Dyer” priced at an
undisclosed figure “way over $20 million” was still on reserve
at the end of the preview at the booth of the London- and New
York-based  Marlborough Fine Art , according to its director
Gilbert Lloyd.  Marlborough is showing three single Bacon canvases, as well
as the 1970 triptych “Three Studies of the Human Body,” marked
at $60 million. The latter hadn’t attracted a reserve during the
early hours of the fair.  “ Art Basel  has longevity,” said Lloyd, who exhibited at
the first edition in 1970. “It’s well placed geographically.
There’s plenty of room to land private jets at the airport.”  London- and Zurich-based dealer  Hauser & Wirth  was one of
several galleries struggling to keep up with the pace of sales.  “We’ve sold a lot,” said co-owner Iwan Wirth, catching
his breath in the crowd on his booth. “We’ve seen a lot of new
clients. They’ve come to Basel buy intelligently and
substantially. The money has recovered but not the confidence.
That’s why they’re buying art.”  Knife Wound  Hauser & Wirth now represents the British hyper-realist
sculptor  Ron Mueck . Two examples of his 2009 work “Youth,”
showing a miniaturized young black man peering at a knife wound
in his side, sold for 450,000 pounds each.  The gallery also sold three versions of Paul McCarthy’s
2010-2011 black monumental bronze sculpture “White Snow DWARF
7,” to collectors from the U.S. and  Europe  for $2.75 million
each, said an  Art Basel  e-mailed statement.  “This is going to be the fair of the year,” Robert Read,
head of art and private clients at  Hiscox Ltd. (HSX) , said in an
interview today. “It feels like a moment, though. Art Basel has
hit the right note at the right time. Dealers have responded to
what collectors want and have brought a lot more blue-chip
material.”   Wealthy individuals from the established economies of the
U.S. and Europe have had their spending power boosted by  hedge
funds  and the  commodities markets  in 2011, prompting impulse
buys at Art Basel, Read said.  Though  Gagosian  doesn't release information about sales,
collectors said that  Maurizio Cattelan’s  2002 sculpture of two
New York policemen, “Frank and Jamie,” was among the early
purchases on the dealer’s crowded booth. Two examples of this
edition of four sold at auction for about $1.6 million in 2010.   Art Basel’s main sponsor is  UBS AG. (UBSN)  The event takes place
at Messe Basel, Messeplatz, 4005 Basel through June 19.  Information:  http://www.artbasel.com/go/id/ss/lang/eng/   (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in Basel, Switzerland, at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 