-- 
Madagascar’s Leader Rajoelina Rejects Call to Let Exiled Rival Return

-- B y   H a n n a h   M c N e i s h
-- 
2011-06-14T15:35:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/madagascar-s-rajoelina-rejects-sadc-call-for-rival-ravalomanana-s-return.html
Malagasy President  Andry Rajoelina 
and the country’s security forces rejected a Southern African
Development Community call to allow exiled former leader  Marc Ravalomanana  to return.  Ravalomanana faces “judicial affairs” if he comes back to
the Indian Ocean island nation after being found guilty of the
deaths of protesters after his guards fired on them in 2009,
Rajoelina told reporters today in the capital, Antananarivo.  “There is no amnesty for blood crimes and nobody can put
pressure on this part,” he said.  The refusal to agree to the SADC heads-of-state resolution
after two years of negotiation may extend the country’s
international isolation and a political crisis sparked when
Rajoelina, a former DJ and mayor of the capital city, ousted
Ravalomanana with the help of the military in March 2009. The
coup led to Madagascar’s suspension from SADC and the  African
Union , and resulted in donors stopping aid that made up two-
thirds of state revenue. SADC consists of 15 southern African
governments.  The regional group on June 12 endorsed a roadmap for
elections in Madagascar with some changes, including that
Ravalomanana, who has been in exile in  South Africa  for two
years, be allowed back.  Madagascar’s security forces are also against the former
president’s return. The army and police are “strongly opposed”
to the move as it may cause unrest, Andre Ndriarijaona, the head
of the country’s army, told reporters today.  New Crisis  The transitional government will start the process to hold
elections, even if the international community didn’t offer
funding, Rajoelina said. The country is expected to hold
elections within a year.  The government’s decision to block Ravalomanana’s return
will lead to discredited elections and a new crisis in the
country, Fetison Andrianirinia, a spokesman for the former
president’s party, said by phone from Antananarivo.  “If they insist on moving toward elections in a unilateral
manner, the international community will never approve them,”
he said.  Madagascar is the world’s largest vanilla grower, while
oil, nickel and titanium products have also attracted investor
interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah McNeish in Johannesburg at 
 hmcneish@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  