-- 
Lagarde Strengthens Lead for IMF Chief as Fischer Discarded Over Age Limit

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-06-14T11:37:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/lagarde-strengthens-lead-over-carstens-for-imf-s-top-job-as-fischer-exits.html
Christine Lagarde  strengthened her
lead in the race for the International Monetary Fund’s top job
after the institution discarded the candidacy of Bank of Israel
Governor  Stanley Fischer  and rival Agustin Carstens described
his chance of winning as “slim.”  The IMF executive board said in a statement late yesterday
in  Washington  that it retained Lagarde and Carstens as the
candidates for the post of managing director, excluding Fischer,
who exceeds the age limit for the job. Earlier, Carstens had
described Lagarde’s chances of being chosen as “quite high.”  The IMF will meet with both candidates in Washington with
the aim of making a decision by June 30, a month and a half
after the arrest of former chief  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  on
charges including attempted rape. He has pleaded not guilty. A
Lagarde win means an extension of the 65-year tradition of a
European heading the IMF; Americans have run the World Bank.  “The emerging markets are not happy with the current
guarantee that the slot’s going to the European, I suspect this
time they will be satisfied to make some noise,” said  David Cohen , a Singapore-based economist at Action Economics Ltd., who
formerly worked at the U.S. Federal Reserve. “Emerging-market
economies are looking towards the future for next time, they are
confident the world is definitely evolving in their direction.”  Carstens, Mexico’s central bank governor, yesterday said
chances are “quite high” that Lagarde,  France ’s finance
minister, will win. He said that he put his name forward in an
effort to help emerging markets get the post in the future.  ‘Not Fooling’  “I’m not fooling myself,” Carstens said in Washington
after meeting with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner .
“It’s like starting a soccer game with a 5-0 score,” given
Lagarde’s early front-runner status, he said.  Lagarde is solidly backed by the European Union. In recent
days she got endorsements from  Morocco ,  Bahrain ,  Egypt  and the
 United Arab Emirates . French news agency  Agence France-Presse 
said Indonesian Finance Minister  Agus Martowardojo  also added
his support.  Carstens says he is backed by 12 Latin American nations,
while he hasn’t won an endorsement from the region’s biggest
economy --  Brazil .  Fischer, 67, had bet that his experience, including a stint
as the No. 2 IMF official, would prompt fund members to waive an
age requirement that would exclude him from the managing
director position, a person familiar with the situation said.  Fischer’s Age  “I am of the opinion that the age limitation, which was
set in the past by the Fund at 65, is no longer relevant today,
and I had hoped that the IMF directors would have discussed the
subject and changed the regulation, not just for my benefit but
for those who will come in the future,” Fischer said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The IMF stuck by its by-laws, which put an age limit at 65
to assume leadership of the lender that has extended one-third
of the assistance in euro-area bailout packages. Age isn’t a
barrier for Carstens, 53, or Lagarde, 55.  The board of directors in a statement yesterday said that
it will consider Lagarde and Carstens in a move “consistent
with the Board decision adopted on May 20 specifying the
procedures for the selection of the next Managing Director, and
the applicable By-Laws of the IMF.”  Emerging-Market Claim  Carstens said yesterday he entered the competition to be
coherent with developing economies’ claim that the selection of
the IMF head should be open and based on merit. The job has
traditionally gone to a European as part of an agreement in
place since start of the postwar era that also has the U.S. pick
the head of the  World Bank .  “We emerging markets might take more than one round to get
to the final position, but if we don’t start at some point, we
will never get there,” he said. “Our intention is to raise the
bar, also to invite emerging markets to be better coordinated in
this process.”  The U.S., the IMF’s single biggest shareholder with almost
17 percent of the votes, hasn’t announced support for a
candidate.  Geithner is “pleased that there is such a strong field of
candidates” vying for the top job of the IMF, the Treasury
Department said in an e-mailed statement. Geithner described
Carstens as an “exceptionally capable candidate” after the two
men talked, according to the Treasury, calling their meeting a
“good discussion.”  For the U.S., favoring a non-European could mean
relinquishing control of the World Bank -- an outcome that
members of Congress who decide on funding for development banks
have said they aren’t ready to accept.  Carstens spent most of his early career at Banco de  Mexico 
before becoming a deputy managing director of the IMF and then
his country’s finance minister.  Lagarde has tried to turn attention away from her
nationality by focusing on her gender and her role in European
efforts to head off a Greek sovereign-debt default.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Paris at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  