-- 
Air Canada Passengers Face Airport Disruptions as Staff Strike on Pensions

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 
2011-06-14T05:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/air-canada-passengers-face-airport-disruptions-as-staff-strike-on-pensions.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  said passengers may face
disruptions today after a union representing 3,800 call-center,
check-in and gate staff went on strike following the failure to
agree on a new contract.  The nation’s biggest airline intends to operate a full
timetable of flights and will deploy more than 1,700 managers to
help ensure services, it said in a statement on the CNS Newswire.
The Dorval, Quebec-based carrier advised passengers to check in
online and to arrive at airports early.  Talks with the Canadian Auto Workers over a new contract
and pension changes broke down after passing a midnight deadline
set by the union. The carrier plunged the most in more than a
year yesterday in Toronto trading ahead of the walkout.  “We are very disappointed that an agreement for a new
contract has not been reached,” Chief Operating Officer Duncan Dee said in the statement. “We remain ready to resume
discussions at any time to achieve a negotiated settlement.”  The airline and union have disagreed over the company’s
proposal to switch from a defined-benefit pension, which
guarantees a specific amount of benefits, to a defined-
contribution plan for new hires.  “This strike is unfortunate -- not only for our members,
but also for Air Canada passengers,” CAW President Ken Lewenza
said in a statement.  The carrier dropped 8.2 percent to C$1.79 yesterday, the
biggest decline since May 2010. It has fallen 38 percent since
its last contract with the CAW expired Feb. 28. The airline
controls  51 percent  of the nation’s domestic market by capacity,
according to the Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation, a Sydney-
based market-research firm.  Air Canada’s more than 10,000 baggage handlers and
mechanics, 6,800 flight attendants and 3,000 pilots also have
been without a contract since March 31, according to Chris
Hiscock, president of International Association of Machinists
and Aerospace Workers’ Canadian Airways Lodge 764. Members of
the Air Canada Pilots Association voted last month to reject a
tentative agreement with the airline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 