-- 
Air Canada Passenger Service to Be Propped by Government Bill Amid Strike

-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n   a n d   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 
2011-06-14T21:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/air-canada-passengers-may-face-disruptions-at-airports-as-workers-strike.html
Air Canada (AC/A)  passengers facing flight
delays amid a strike by service workers will get a boost from a
government bill aimed at ensuring airline service, Canadian
Labor Minister Lisa Raitt said.  “We will put on notice tonight legislation to ensure
continuing air service for passengers,” Raitt said in response
to a question in the House of Commons today.  Air Canada service workers went on strike at midnight after
contract negotiations between the union that represents 3,800
call-center, check-in and gate staff and management failed to
reach an agreement. The airline is deploying more than 1,700
managers to help ensure services and has advised passengers to
arrive early and expect delays.  “This is a matter of significant economic consequence,”
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said in Ottawa today. “It affects
tourists of course, but it affects the business, it affects the
delivery of cargo in Canada and from Canada abroad. Air Canada
has a huge section of the market in Canada.”  Talks with the Canadian Auto Workers over a new contract
and pension changes broke down after passing a midnight deadline
set by the union. The carrier plunged the most in more than a
year yesterday in Toronto trading ahead of the walkout.  “We are very disappointed that an agreement for a new
contract has not been reached,” Chief Operating Officer Duncan Dee said in a statement after talks broke down. “We remain
ready to resume discussions at any time to achieve a negotiated
settlement.”  ‘Ready’ to Negotiate  There have been no cancellations to Air  Canada  flights
today because of the strike, said Angela Mah, a spokeswoman at
the Dorval, Quebec-based carrier. The airline is “ready” to
return to negotiations with the union, she said.  The airline controls  51 percent  of the nation’s domestic
market by capacity, according to the Centre for Asia Pacific
Aviation, a Sydney-based market-research firm.  Air Canada and the union have disagreed over the company’s
proposal to switch from a defined-benefit pension, which
guarantees a specific amount of benefits, to a defined-
contribution plan for new hires.  “This strike is unfortunate -- not only for our members,
but also for Air Canada passengers,” CAW President Ken Lewenza
said in a statement last night.  Air Canada Class B shares rose 10 cents to C$1.89 at 4:05
p.m. in trading on the Toronto Stock Exchange. Shares of
Calgary-based  WestJet Airlines Ltd. (WJA) , Canada’s second-largest
airline, climbed 3 cents, or 0.2 percent, to C$14.22.  Flight Delays  Toronto Pearson International Airport , the country’s
busiest airport, has listed more than 50 flight delays and seven
cancellations of Air Canada flights on its  website , up from
about a dozen delays listed earlier today. CP24 television has
reported “minor delays” at Pearson.  At Vancouver International Airport, more than 10 flights
were delayed to destinations including  Hong Kong , Toronto and
Victoria, according to the airport’s website.  The carrier dropped 7.7 percent to C$1.79 yesterday, the
biggest decline since May 2010. It has fallen 32 percent since
its last contract with the CAW expired Feb. 28.  Air Canada’s more than 10,000 baggage handlers and
mechanics, 6,800 flight attendants and 3,000 pilots also have
been without a contract since March 31, according to Chris
Hiscock, president of International Association of Machinists
and Aerospace Workers’ Canadian Airways Lodge 764. Members of
the Air Canada Pilots Association voted last month to reject a
tentative agreement with the airline.  Porter Airlines , a Toronto-based commuter carrier that
flies out of the city’s Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport, has
seen a “noticeable increase in bookings” over the past 24
hours across all of its destinations, said Brad Cicero, a
company spokesman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net 
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 