-- 
Haldane Says FPC Will ‘Lower the Temperature’ on Financial Risk

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-06-14T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/haldane-says-fpc-will-lower-the-temperature-on-financial-risk.html
Andrew Haldane ,  Bank of England 
executive director for financial stability and a member of the
new Financial Policy Committee, discusses the FPC’s remit and
challenges as the panel prepares to meet for the first time
tomorrow.  He made the comments in an interview in London yesterday.  On the FPC’s role in preventing another financial crisis:  “We’re moving to a world of greater pre-emptive action to
head off those sorts of events. Not every bubble that’s blown
up, not every risk that’s on the table, but when the bubbles are
big enough, broad enough, when the risks are broadly enough
based, that’s when the FPC is meant to step into action. Not
just words, but words backed up with actions.”  On the FPC’s ability to spot bubbles beforehand:  “One, we’ve got to try, because we’ve seen the
consequences of not trying, and the result is collateral damage
to the financial system and to the economy that’s on such a
scale that leaving it too late is just too perilous to do.  “The second point, which is much more optimistic, is that
I think we can.  Before the crisis “We were barking at the speeding
traffic, and what the FPC and macro-prudential is about, is
bites to accompany the bark. I’d be much more optimistic than
others that when risk-taking is generalized, broadly-based, on a
large scale, we’ll be able to both spot it and do something
about it.”  On whether the BOE has the same financial stability powers as
before the crisis:  “It’s better than that. It’s true that our formal, legal
directive powers won’t come in until the legislation is in
place, at the back end of next year, in some ways, that event,
those powers, have some shadowing role, even today.  “One because, even if we haven’t got them today, we will
have them tomorrow. And two, because those that do have the
powers currently, which is the FSA, we’ll of course have the
chairman and chief executive on the FPC. This won’t come as a
surprise to the FSA if the FPC makes a recommendation that they
might do something. In fact, they will have been party to that
decision. This has a more direct read-across even in a world in
which the FPC has only recommendation powers.”  On deflating bubbles and choice of policy tools:  “What we are not there to do is to go around pin pricking
everything that seems to be going up fast, this price seems a
bit racy, that’s unrealistic. I also think it’s potentially
undesirable, because what we’re talking about is not to deflate
any fast-moving bit of risk, but rather to lower the temperature
when across the system as a whole it’s heated up too far.  “Although excesses might manifest themselves in asset
prices, it won’t be just asset prices that we’re focusing on.
They are one possible diagnostic on excess risk taking. There’s
a bubble that maybe you could say, we will stand aside, and
watch inflate and then deflate, without needing to act. Others,
for example the bubble in structured credit in 2004-5-6, was one
that had a more direct link back to the banking system. In that
situation, asset prices, perhaps, were signaling something more
significant on the need for action.”  On the FPC’s relationship with banks:  “It is in the nature of regulation that it will sometimes
mean requiring banks to do things that they wouldn’t otherwise
do. If that wasn’t the case we wouldn’t need to bother frankly.  “A key aspect of this is that what the FPC is trying to
achieve is our stakeholders here extend well beyond the
financial system. So the reason we’re doing this is it’s about
preserving, maintaining stability within the system as a means
to an end. Where the end is supporting the real economy. The
stakeholders here aren’t firms within spitting distance of this
building but rather business, households up and down the
country.”  On handling the collapse of a big international bank:  “There’s unfinished business across a number of fronts.
Some of that unfinished business is about heading off failure in
the first place. So the debate about surcharges, capital add-ons
for the biggest firms is about taking pre-emptive action to
lower the probability of those firms failing in the first place
so that’s what the capital surcharge debate is all about. Ditto
the debate about more intensive supervision of those firms.  “Decent progress has been made on that but we’re not yet
in a position to declare victory. They’re all the kind of ex-
ante actions. Things you do to prevent the worst. It’s about
having the biggest firms form a plan ex-ante of what they would
do in those situations, which is the whole living wills plans.  “Now we’ve made some progress on resolution technology and
some progress has been made on living wills but in neither case
I think hand on heart we’re yet ready to deal with a big one.”  On encouraging banks to take risk in lean times:  “What’s different this time is precisely is that it’ll be
risks to the economy as transmitted through the system as a
whole that this FPC will have its eyes on.  “The distinct role of a macro-prudential authority in
would be to say, hang on, if everyone hoards money and doesn’t
lend it, that will derail the recovery. Actually in that
situation we want people to breathe a bit, to put their money to
work, to loosen the regulatory reins, as a contribution to
supporting the strength of the economy and indeed the financial
system.  “That is a wholly different mindset to that we’ve had for
the last 100 years in setting regulation. And even those of us
who’ve thought that way for decades and decades haven’t had a
policy-making framework within which to make those choices.  “That’s what’s changing as of tomorrow. So I think it
feels like a pretty radical departure from the regulatory path
that we’ve been going down at least since the Second World War.
And that’s why it’s important.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in  London  at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  