-- 
Haldane Eyes Shadow Banking as New BOE Panel Targets Bubbles

-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 
2011-06-15T08:45:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/haldane-eyes-shadow-banking-as-new-boe-panel-targets-bubbles.html
The U.K. Financial Policy Committee
may target unregulated  bank transactions  as it seeks to prevent
bubbles and end the “Chuck Prince dynamic,” said  Andrew Haldane , a Bank of England official and member of the new panel.  The FPC must “advise government when we think risks have
migrated outside of the conventional banking system into what is
these days called the shadow banking system,” Haldane said in
an interview in  London  yesterday. Evidence of “banking-type
activities” in “non-regulated parts of the system” could
compel the FPC to ask the government to expand its powers.  The interim FPC meets tomorrow for the first time as part
of Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s shake-up of banking
regulation. The panel will be chaired by Bank of England
Governor  Mervyn King , who is due to speak in London later today.
Haldane, executive director for financial stability at the bank,
said officials are still deciding what tools will be used to
shield the economy from financial risks.  Haldane said lenders will welcome an end to the “Chuck Prince dynamic,” where the former  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief
Executive Officer was quoted in 2007 as saying that so long as
rivals were taking big risks, he would too. Haldane said the FPC
may solve the problem of banks being powerless to act against
the tide when the environment is “a bit on the risky side.”  “It’s beyond the capacity of any one firm to stop the
merry-go-round but if someone, the FPC, can slow that down that
might actually benefit the banks,” he said. “This ought not to
be an antagonistic relationship. It saves them from
themselves.”  ‘Fragile State’  As they protect the economy from banks’ exuberance, policy
makers must ensure their rules don’t impede the pickup in credit
needed for the recovery, Haldane said. Hampering lending is “a
risk we need to be conscious of because we’re in a fragile state
of the cycle.”  The central bank will hold a press conference on June 24 to
discuss the results of tomorrow’s meeting.  Authorities have warned that shadow banking, which includes
structured investment vehicles used to move transactions off
balance sheets, could be used to evade attempts by regulators to
clamp down on excessive risk taking.  The remit of the FPC “requires that we raise a flag in
that situation and make the case for regulatory change,”
Haldane said. Before the financial crisis, the FPC “might have
said, and this is with 20-20 hindsight, ‘Banks, if you’ve got
these off-balance-sheet SIVs and conduits, you must consolidate
them onto your balance sheet today, because this is banking
activity in all bar name.’”  Asset Bubbles  The shadow-banking system had liabilities of about $16
trillion in the first quarter of 2010, the  Federal Reserve Bank
of New York  said  last year . It “contributed significantly to
asset bubbles in residential and commercial real-estate
markets,” the Fed said.  Financial Stability Board  Chairman  Mario Draghi  said in
April that the board would enlarge “the regulatory perimeter”
to include the “most important segments” of shadow banks. The
FSB, a global regulatory body, said it would propose rules “to
strengthen the regulation and oversight of the shadow banking
system,” by November.  New rules must be on a “broadly equal footing” across
countries because capital flows internationally, Haldane said.  The FPC also has to take into account a U.K. economy that’s
stalled in the six months through March. At the same time, the
government’s plans for the biggest fiscal squeeze since World
War II have undermined  consumer confidence .  Pre-Emptive Action  The costs of risk-averse banks “are felt as a repressed
financial system, an absence of innovation, a higher cost of
capital for customers,” Haldane said. “People aren’t feeling
chipper right now about putting money to work.”  The FPC’s so-called macro-prudential toolkit aims to
address changes in leverage and risk so that excesses don’t
damage the wider economy, which conflicts with the approach
taken by former U.S. Federal Reserve Chairman  Alan Greenspan .  “We’ve learnt a lot and moved on from the Greenspan
hypothesis, whereby if you see a bubble, you watch it, but don’t
do anything about it, other than mop up the damage from when it
pops,” Haldane said. “Now we’re moving to a world of greater
pre-emptive action.”  While the FPC can remove constraints on credit, it’s can’t
force lending and borrowing, any more than the bank’s Monetary
Policy Committee can by lowering its benchmark interest rate,
Haldane said. The bank held the rate at 0.5 percent this month.  No Compulsion  “You can’t compel people to borrow or lend,” he said.
“What you can do is try and ensure as far possible that policy
doesn’t get in the way of balance sheet repair and spending or
lending.”  The FPC is part of plans for the biggest regulatory
overhaul since 1997, in which the  Financial Services Authority 
will be abolished and most of its powers returned to the  Bank of
England . The interim panel will have power only to recommend
action until its status is approved by Parliament in 2012.  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  will back
proposals to erect firebreaks around consumer-banking units of
British firms during his annual Mansion House speech to bankers
in London this evening, and King will speak at the same event.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at 
 bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  