-- 
Alibaba’s Ma Sees Softbank Dispute as More Complex, Caing Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-06-14T05:56:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/alibaba-s-ma-sees-softbank-dispute-as-more-complex-caing-says.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.
expects to resolve a dispute with shareholder Yahoo! Inc.
over the spinoff of the Alipay business more easily than with
stake owner  Softbank Corp. (9984) , Caing.com  reported , citing the
Chinese company’s Chairman Jack Ma.  Yahoo’s disagreement is over its commercial interests
only, Ma said in the Caing interview. Softbank Chairman
Masayoshi Son has raised additional objections over “matters
of principle” regarding employee development, Ma said.  Takeaki Nukii, a spokesman at Softbank, declined to
comment. John Spelich, a spokesman at closely held Alibaba in
 Hong Kong , said he couldn’t verify the contents of the Caing
report.  Alibaba is in talks with Yahoo and Softbank, its two
biggest shareholders, on Alipay after the online payment
business was spun off to facilitate a license application in
 China . The divestment of Alipay lacked the approval of Yahoo
and Softbank, according to the Sunnyvale, California-based
company. Yahoo last month said it is seeking compensation for
the transaction.  Yahoo’s holding in Alibaba Group may account for as much
as three-quarters of the U.S. company’s market value, Sandeep Aggarwal, an analyst at Caris & Co. in  San Francisco , said
last month. Alipay may be worth $5 billion, according to
Gabelli & Co.  “It’s not possible” for Alibaba to regain control over
Alipay through a new contract, Ma said, according to the
Caing report. Alipay will have more outside shareholders in
the future as the present ownership structure is not
sustainable, Ma said.  The ownership of Alipay, China’s most-popular online
payment service, has been transferred to a company controlled
by Ma, following two transactions in 2009 and 2010, according
to company registry records in Hangzhou, where Alibaba is
based.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  