-- 
Alibaba’s Ma Says Yahoo, Softbank Were ‘Wrong’ About Alipay

-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 
2011-06-14T23:42:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/alibaba-s-ma-says-yahoo-softbank-were-wrong-about-alipay.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. Chairman
Jack Ma said Yahoo! Inc. and  Softbank Corp. (9984)  failed to fulfill
their duties as board directors, highlighting the rift between
the Chinese online-commerce company and its biggest investors.  “Prior to the current negotiations, they exploited the
imperfections of the company structure and engaged in stalling
tactics,” Ma said at a briefing yesterday in Hangzhou, China,
referring to Yahoo and Softbank’s role on Alibaba’s board over
the Alipay online payment unit. “As shareholders, they were
right but as directors, they were both wrong.”  Ma’s comments come amid negotiations with the two investors,
which are seeking compensation for the divestment of Alipay, a
deal Ma said was needed to expedite the application of an online
payment license in China. Shares of Yahoo and Softbank have
underperformed their respective benchmark indexes since last
month’s disclosure that the unit was sold without the consent of
the companies.  “Alibaba should have done more to get Yahoo and Softbank
on board before acting on Alipay,” said Jim Tang, a technology
analyst at Shenyin Wanguo Securities in  Shanghai . “Alibaba
needs to not only think of its own interests, but also needs to
take care of the interests of the shareholders.”  Softbank President Masayoshi Son,  Japan ’s richest man,
repeatedly cut short discussions about the reorganization of
Alipay, said Ma, whose comments were confirmed by Alibaba in an
e-mail.  Belated Notice  Yahoo climbed 4 cents to $15.20 at in Nasdaq Stock Market
trading yesterday, while Softbank rose 0.1 percent to 2,983 yen
in  Tokyo . Alibaba Group, parent of e-commerce website
Alibaba.com and online shopping mall Taobao, is unlisted.  Takeaki Nukii, a spokesman at Tokyo-based Softbank, Japan’s
third-largest mobile-phone operator, declined to comment. Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, declined to comment.  Yahoo, owner of the biggest U.S. Web portal, last month
said it wasn’t informed until March 31 about an August 2010
transfer of Alipay equity to a company outside of Alibaba. Ma
previously said Alibaba’s board had discussed for three years
the need to reorganize Alipay to comply with  China ’s
restrictions on foreign investment in online payment operators.  Ma said the dispute with Yahoo is limited to commercial
interests and “easy” to resolve, while differences with
Softbank involve a “fundamental divergence in opinions”
involving the development of Alibaba workers, Chinese magazine
Caixin Online reported, citing an interview with Ma.  Yahoo is making “significant” progress in talks with
Alibaba and Softbank over compensation, Chief Executive Officer
 Carol Bartz  said on May 25.  “The reason you are there on the board is because you are
protecting the interest of the investors,” said Duncan Clark,
chairman of BDA China, a Beijing-based technology consultancy.
He said he didn’t “understand” Ma’s comments yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net  