-- 
Allstate Suit Against Countrywide Moved to California Federal Court

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 
2011-06-14T22:32:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/allstate-suit-against-countrywide-moved-to-california-court.html
Allstate Corp. (ALL) ’s lawsuit against
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ’s Countrywide Financial unit was moved by
a U.S. judge to a federal court in  California  from a court in
 New York .  U.S. District Judge Alvin K. Hellerstein in New York today
granted a motion by Countrywide to move the case to the Western
Division of the Central District of California, where similar
litigation over the same issues has been ongoing since January
2010, according to court documents.  The similar litigation, filed by the Maine State Retirement
System, is a class-action suit that began in California Superior
Court in November 2007 and was refiled in federal court. The
case has been before U.S. District Judge Mariana Pfaelzer since
January 2010, Hellerstein wrote.  Coordinating the Allstate lawsuit with the Maine case will
“promote the efficient use of judicial resources and will
prevent the possibility of inconsistent results that could arise
from pursuing the very same litigation before different courts
and different judges,” Hellerstein said in today’s ruling.  ‘Rapid’ Value Loss  Allstate, based in Northbrook,  Illinois , sued Countrywide
in federal court in New York in December, saying that the
company misrepresented $700 million in residential mortgage-
backed securities the insurer purchased.  Allstate said in the complaint that the securities,
purchased from March 2005 to June 2007, suffered “drastic and
rapid loss in value” when large numbers of homeowners began to
default on their mortgages. Bank of America, based in Charlotte,
 North Carolina , acquired Countrywide for $4.2 billion in July
2008.  In its complaint, Allstate claimed that Countrywide began
ignoring its own underwriting standards in 2003 in an effort to
increase its share of the home mortgage market. The company
adopted an internal strategy to match any mortgage product
feature offered by a competitor, Allstate said.  Lawyers for Countrywide in March asked Hellerstein to
dismiss the complaint, saying the suit “parrots unsubstantiated
allegations from other lawsuits” about the company’s loan
origination practices and Allstate was provided with all the
necessary information needed to assess the credit risk of the
securities that were purchased.  The case is Allstate Insurance Co. v. Countrywide Financial
Corp., 10-cv-9591, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 