-- 
America Movil Cuts Telmex Fees to Match Gov.

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-06-14T14:03:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/america-movil-cuts-telmex-fees-to-match-gov-.html
America Movil  SAB’s Mexican wireless
unit will slash the network-connection fees it charges Telefonos
de Mexico SAB by more than half, matching the rate cuts set by
government officials in disputes with other carriers.  While America Movil will continue to fight the government
rate in court, it is extending the fee of 39 centavos (3.3
cents) a minute to all carriers while it appeals the decision,
the company said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. It had been
charging 95 centavos a minute to Telmex, as the company is
known.  A reduction in the fees would save Telmex 3.6 billion pesos
($303.7 million) a year and boost its U.S.-listed shares by
$2.40, James Rivett, an analyst at Citigroup Inc., said last
week in a research note. The U.S. shares rose 7 cents to $16.59
at 9:50 a.m. on the New York Stock Exchange.  The reduction in fees charged to all Mexican carriers would
cut  Mexico  City-based America Movil’s earnings by 1.8 percent,
leaving out interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization,
Rivett said. America Movil shares rose 22 centavos to 29.29
pesos in Mexico City trading.  In Mexico, the person who initiates a phone call must pay
for the airtime. Carriers are free to set the rates they charge
for these interconnection fees, and if they can’t reach an
agreement, they ask the  Federal Telecommunications Commission  to
intervene.  In March, the agency settled a dispute between America
Movil and Alestra SA, the fixed-line phone unit of Alfa SAB, by
determining a rate of 39 centavos a minute. The commission has
upheld that rate in subsequent decisions.  Largest Carriers  America Movil, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , owns
a 59 percent stake in Telmex. The two companies and  Telefonica
SA (TEF)  agreed in December to a rate of 95 centavos a minute for
calls from land lines to wireless phones, and they offered to
extend that rate to other carriers. Telmex never sought
intervention from the telecommunications commission.  America Movil is Mexico’s largest wireless carrier with 70
percent of subscribers, while Madrid-based Telefonica is second
with 22 percent. Telmex is the nation’s biggest fixed-line phone
carrier with about 80 percent of the market.  In May, Mexico’s  Supreme Court  ruled that fees set by the
telecommunications commission can’t be blocked during the
appeals process. That means that even while America Movil
challenges the agency’s rate decisions in court, it is forced to
charge the lower rate to companies in disputes in which the
commission, known as Cofetel, has intervened.  Telcel Unit  The decision disclosed yesterday by America Movil’s Mexican
wireless unit, Telcel, means that it’s applying the 39-centavo
rate to all carriers, even those that haven’t sought
intervention from the telecommunications commission.  “Telcel has extended the interconnection tariffs resolved
by Cofetel in various interconnection disputes involving Telcel
to all operators,” the company’s statement said. “This is
beside the fact that these resolutions have been or will be, as
the case may be, challenged by Telcel through legal channels.”  El Universal newspaper in Mexico City reported the Telmex
fee cut earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  