-- 
AmEx Targets Big Banks, Dodges Debit Caps With Prepaid Card

-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 
2011-06-14T20:24:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-06-14/amex-targets-biggest-banks-ducks-debit-caps-with-prepaid-cards.html
American Express Co. (AXP)  is offering a
low-cost prepaid card that’s exempt from new U.S. caps on debit-
swipe fees and may draw customers from some banks that are
trimming rewards programs because of the rules.  AmEx, unlike other prepaid-card issuers, won’t charge for
online purchases, monthly maintenance, balance inquiries,
activation, replacement cards or when customers reload their
accounts through checking and savings accounts, the New York-
based lender said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. There will
be retail fees for customers who reload with cash, it said.  The cards may be an alternative for customers of the
biggest U.S. banks, including  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  Those lenders announced plans to scale back their
debit-rewards programs after caps on the swipe fees they collect
were enacted last year. Reloadable prepaid cards, and banks and
 credit unions  with assets of less than $10 billion, are exempt.  “More and more people will probably move toward prepaid
cards as a substitute,” Dan Schulman, group president for
enterprise growth at AmEx, said in an interview. Prepaid-card
use expanded 35 percent last year with more than 1 billion
transactions “and we think it will grow even more quickly as a
result of the recent legislation,” he said.  The  Federal Reserve  has proposed capping swipe fees, or
interchange, at 12 cents a transaction, replacing a formula that
averages 1.14 percent of the purchase price.  Visa Inc. (V)  and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the biggest payment networks, set the fees and
pass the money to card-issuing banks, whose revenues may decline
by $12 billion a year when the caps take effect July 21.  Green Dot, NetSpend  “The whole industry is looking at prepaid offerings as a
way to generate growth” outside of the fee restrictions, said
Brian Foran, an analyst at Nomura Securities International Inc.  AmEx’s new card may force  Green Dot Corp. (GDOT)  and  NetSpend
Holdings Inc. (NTSP) , the biggest U.S. prepaid processors, to cut fees,
said Mike Taiano, an analyst with Sandler O’Neill & Partners.  “It could add pressure to companies that charge
maintenance and activation fees with a product out there with
virtually no fees,” Taiano said.  Dan Henry, chief executive officer of Austin, Texas-based
NetSpend, welcomed the competition.  ‘Product Awareness’  “The announcement from AmEx brings additional validation
to the prepaid space and builds product awareness to the more
than 60 million underbanked consumers,” Henry said in an e-
mailed statement.  American Express fell 9 cents to $48.15 at 4:15 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. Green Dot, based in
Monrovia,  California , climbed 1 percent to $35.45 and NetSpend
advanced 1.8 percent to $7.91.  AmEx, which dominates the market for the highest-spending
customers, is targeting a less-affluent population with its
prepaid card, Schulman said.  These new customers will get access to the company’s round-
the-clock  customer service , roadside assistance and other perks
like purchase protection. Funds can be loaded online through a
savings or checking account and don’t expire, AmEx said.  “They are traditionally a high-end premium customer server
with charge cards, where the model allows them to provide
service to premium customers and charge a premium price,” said
Bradley Ball, an analyst with Evercore Partners Inc. “They are
transforming into something that is a broader payment services
provider.”  ‘Lean Cost Structure’  Schulman said AmEx is charging retailers a discounted rate
from the fees it usually levies for credit-card transactions,
which average more than 2.5 percent. The company declined to
disclose the prepaid rate.  “You do need to make sure you have a pretty lean cost
structure to be able to offer this product with an attractive
margin,” Schulman said. “It’s a lower margin than we might
usually have.”  Prepaid cards, which often are sold from racks in
supermarkets or convenience stores, have emerged as an
alternative for people who don’t have bank accounts and largely
escaped federal regulatory scrutiny.  During the debate last year of the Dodd-Frank regulatory
overhaul, Congress considered making prepaid cards subject to
the swipe-fee caps. Hip-hop impresario Russell Simmons, who
issues the prepaid RushCard, lobbied to exempt the products.  Kim, Khloe and Kourtney Kardashian, the sisters famous for
their TV reality show, withdrew their own prepaid card from the
market in November after  Consumers Union , publisher of  Consumer
Reports , publicized its various fees for checking a balance or
speaking to customer service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in  New York  at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 